340 Profs .
J. J. Thomson and R. Threlfall .
[ May 6 , We have made no attempts to ascertain the chemical properties of this modified gas , and there are other points which we should have liked to develop before publishing an account of our experiments , but as one of us is leaving Cambridge for Australia it seemed advisable to publish an account of the experiments we have been able to make together .
We are indebted to Mr. Robinson for advice on some chemical points , and we cannot conclude without acknowledging how much we owe to the zeal and ability of Mr. Sinclair , the Assistant at the Cavendish Laboratory , who has done much the greater part of the large quantity of glass-blowing required for this investigation .
II .
" Some Experiments on the Production of Ozone .
" By J. J. Thomson , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , and Cavendish Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge , and R. Threlfall , Cams College , Cambridge , and Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Sydney .
Received May 1 , 1886 .
The first experiment was made in order to see whether ozone could be formed by placing oxygen in a very strong electric field , the field , however , being just not strong enough to cause sparks to pass through the gas .
This experiment finally took the following form:\#151 ; ABC is a box made of flat pieces of glass about -j^th of an inch thick , fastened together with paraffin ; into the box two glass tubes , G and H , are inserted , the air entering the box through G , and leaving it through H. Against one side of the box a glass bottle , D , with flat sides , is placed and filled with water containing a little sulphuric acid , this serves as one electrode ; the other electrode is a blackened tin plate , E , placed against the opposite side of the box , the distance between the electrodes being an inch and a half .
The two electrodes are connected with the terminals of a Holtz machine .
By altering the distance between the terminals any difference of potential can be produced between the plates .
When the terminals are close together all the sparks pass between them , but when they are pulled far apart the sparks flash across the box , the discharge taking the form of a great number of separate sparks from the inside of one plate to .
the inside of the opposite one ; the appearance of the box when the discharge passes is very pretty , it looks as if several hundred bright silver nails with broad heads were connecting the insides of the box .
The air entered the box through the tube G , having previously passed through a series of tubes and bottles filled respectively with Experiments on the Production of Ozone .
phosphorous pentoxide , pumice moistened with sulphuric acid , and caustic potash ; it was also freed from dust bj passing through a tube containing a plug of cotton-wool .
After passing through the box it bubbled through a test-tube , F , containing an iodide of potassium and starch solution , pieces of filter-paper moistened with this solution were also fastened to the sides of the box .
We determined the most sensitive solution of potassium iodide and starch by adding a constant quantity of chlorine-water to various proportions of potassium iodide and starch ; when the most sensitive solution had been determined it was always made up of this strength .
We found that the papers were quite as delicate a test of ozone as the test-tube full of the solution .
When the observations were being made the whole arrangement was placed inside a large wooden box , the sides of which were blackened , the observer put his head through a hole in one of the Experiments on the Production of Ozone .
[ May 6 , sides of the box , and a black velvet clotb was then put over the box so that all stray light was excluded , and any spark traversing the box could easily be detected .
The air was sucked through the box at the rate of about a litre in ten minutes .
Before trying the experiment air was sucked through for about half an hour when the electrodes were at the same potential ; but not the slightest colouration of the potassium iodide solution in the test-tube or on the pieces of paper in the box could be detected .
We then adjusted the distance between the terminals of the Holtz machine so that the sparks just did not pass across the vessel , in this case the terminals of the Holtz were about 4 inches apart , so that the field was as intense as it could be without producing a discharge .
Air was then sucked through for more than an hour , but not the slightest colouration could be detected in either the test-tube or the pieces of paper , though the passage of a single flash was sufficient to produce a most distinct colouration .
This experiment was repeated over and over again , but always with the same result ; we never found any ozone unless we had previously seen a flash across the vessel , hence we conclude that ozone is only produced when sparks pass through the oxygen .
A special experiment was made in order to estimate the delicacy of the test for ozone : to the same quantity of the solution of iodide of potassium as that through which the air bubbled on its way out from the vessel , chlorine-water was added until we could detect a discolouration .
The amount of chlorine in the quantity of chlorine-water added was then determined by finding the quantity of iodine set free by 10 c.c. of it .
This was done by means of some very carefully prepared solution of sodium hyposulphite , kindly made up and standardised for us by Mr. M. M. Pattison Muir .
From the minimum quantity of chlorine required to produce a discolouration of the solution , we found that the smallest quantity of ozone we could detect with certainty was O'0384 mgram .
But 6 litres of air , that is 1'5 litres of oxygen , had passed slowly through the apparatus and , since no discolouration was produced , the amount of ozone formed must have been less than 0'0384 mgram .
, or less than 0'00016 of the whole quantity of oxygen which had passed through the apparatus .
In the second experiment we took an ozonizer made of two concentric tubes , and sealed up in it air free from ozone and a large quantity of phosphorous pentoxide , this was left for three months , so that at the end of the time the air was presumably dry ; on causing the electric discharge to pass through it , however , ozone was produced in large quantities , so that ozone is produced when an electric spark passes through very carefully dried oxygen .

