448 Dr. E. Schunck .
18 .
v. Wittich : ' Experimonta quaedam ad Halleri doctrinam de musculorum irritabilitate probandam instituta .
' Konigsberg , 1857 , and ' Yirohow , Archiv , ' vol. 13,1858 , p. 421 .
In these papers , with the discovery of the excitation of muscle by distilled water , appears without doubt the first fact which overthrew the old theory of the equal irritability of muscle and nerve .
19 .
E. du Bois-Reymond : ' desammelte Abhandlungen sir allgemeinen Muskel-und Nervenphysiologie vol. 2 , p. 700 .
20 .
Kfihne : ' Verhandlungen des Naturhist.-medicinischen Yerein3 zu Heidelberg Never Folge , vol. 4 , pp. 4 , 5 .
21 .
Gr .
Retzius :\#166 ; 'Biologische TJntersuchungen , ' 1881 .
A. Rollett : " Untersuchungen fiber den Bau der quergestreiften Muskelfaser .
" * Wien , Akad .
Denkschr .
, ' vol. 49 , 1885 .
22 .
' Dr. H. Gr .
Bronn 's Classen und Ordnungen des Thierreiches , neu bearbeitet von O. Bfitschli .
' Leipzig und Heidelberg , 1888 , vol. 1 , p. 1298 .
23 .
Efihne : " Never Untersuchungen fiber motorische Nervenendigung .
" * Zeitschr .
Biol. , ' vol. 23 , pp. 88-95 .
24 .
A. van Glehuchten : " Etude sir la structure intime de la cellule musculaire striee .
" ' La Cellule , ' vol. 2 , p. 289 .
25 .
E. Hearing : ' Sitzber .
der k. Akad .
zu Wien , ' vol. 85 , Abth .
3 , 1882 , p. 237 .
26 .
Kfihne : " Secundare Erregung vom Muskel zum Muskel .
" ' Zeitschr .
Biol. , ' vol. 24 , p. 383 .
The drawings , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 8 are taken from the papers of Dr. K. Mays : " Histophysiologische Untersuchungen fiber die Yerbreitung der IN"erven in den Muskeln " ( 'Zeitschr .
Biol. , ' vol. 20 , p. 449 ) , and " Ueber Nervenfasertheilungen in den Nervenstammen der Froschmuskeln " ( 'Zeitschr .
Biol. , ' vol. 22 , p. 354 ) ; figs. 9\#151 ; 13 , from the author 's work in ' Zeitschr .
Biol. , ' vol. 23 , pp. 1\#151 ; 148 , Plates A\#151 ; Q. " Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
No. III .
" By Edward Schunck , F.R.S. Received June 19 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1888 .
Products of the Action of Alkalis on Phyllocyanin.\#151 ; In the first part of this memoir I gave a general account of the action of alkalis on phyllocyanin ( ' Proceedings , ' vol. 39 , p. 355 ) .
I shall now proceed to give the results obtained on further examining the products due to this action .
The description of the products appearing in the first stage of the process of change induced by alkalis forms the subject of the present communication .
The great trouble involved in preparing any considerable quantity of phyllocyanin in a state of purity made it desirable to find out a method , if possible , of obtaining the products of the action of alkali directly from chlorophyll itself .
The object in view was attained by acting on chlorophyll first with alkali and then with acid , thus reversing the process previously adopted and at the same time leading to the discovery of several new and interesting compounds , the formation of which had not been anticipated .
Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
449 The plan I have pursued is as follows :\#151 ; Fresh leaves\#151 ; I prefer grass with broad blades to any other material\#151 ; are exhausted with boiling spirits of wine containing from 80\#151 ; 82 per cent , of alcohol .
The green extract is filtered hot , and being allowed to stand for a day or two away from the light , yields a dark-green voluminous deposit , containing chlorophyll mixed with fatty and other matters .
This deposit is filtered off for further treatment , the pale-green filtrate being rejected .
The green mass on the filter is now to be treated with a boiling solution of caustic soda in strong alcohol , which dissolves it in part .
The insoluble portion is filtered off , and after washing with alcohol appears almost white.* Through the dark-green filtrate a current of hydrochloric acid gas is then passed until it acquires a strong acid reaction .
The liquid first becomes yellowish-green , but after some time the colour changes to a dull purplish-green , and small crystalline needles arranged in stars , purple by reflected and dnll-green by transmitted light , begin to appear on the * Minute sparkling red crystals are always found interspersed in the amorphous mass of which the residue left by alcohol for the most part consists .
These crystals are the chrysophyll of Hartsen , the erythrophyll of Bougarel , a very beautiful substance , which may be freed from the impurities accompanying it in this case in the following manner:\#151 ; The residue , after washing with alcohol , is treated in the cold with chloroform , which dissolves the chrysophyll , leaving the greater part of the fatty matter behind .
The yellow solution is filtered , mixed with a considerable quantity of alcohol , and left to stand for a day or two in the dark , when it deposits crystals of chrysophyll mixed with fatty matter .
The deposit is filtered off , and placed , without removal from the filter , in a hot water funnel ; here it is treated with a little hot glacial acetic acid .
This removes all the fatty , along with some colouring , matter .
The residue is dissolved in a little chloroform , and the solution , having been mixed with several times its volume of absolute alcohol , is left to stand in the dark .
The next day a quantity of chrysophyll will have separated in crystals with a golden lustre and of a deep orange or red colour by transmitted light .
The substance is rapidly bleached on exposure to air .
In order to preserve it unchanged , it should , after filtration and rapid drying , be put into a glass tube through which a current of hydrogen is passed before sealing , then kept in the dark .
According to Arnaud ( 'Compt .
Rend .
' vol. 102 , p. 1119 , and vol. 104 , p. 1293 ) , chrysophyll is identical with carotin .
There can be no doubt that it contributes to the obscuration at the blue end of the ordinary chlorophyll spectrum I have found it accompanying chlorophyll in all leaves that I have examined .
Its solutions when sufficiently dilute show two broad bands at the blue end , without the least trace of absorption at any other part of the spectrum ( fig. 1 ) .
Fig. 1 .
aB C D E Absorption Spectrum of Chrysophyll .
VX)L .
XLIV .
2 L Dr. E. Schunck .
sides of the glass .
These needles continue to increase in quantity for some time ; they are filtered off ' , washed with alcohol , and then treated with boiling ether , which removes a quantity of fatty matter , at the same time dissolving some of the substance itself .
The residue is dissolved in a small quantity of chloroform , and the solution which is deeply coloured is then mixed with several times its volume of absolute alcohol .
On standing , the liquid deposits a quantity of long crystalline needles , which are collected on a filter and washed with alcohol , in which they are only slightly soluble .
The substance thus obtained is apparently an ethyl compound , and is probably the ethyl ether of the product formed by the action of alkalis on phyllocyanin , this being the conclusion to which its reactions seem to point .
In mass it appears of a fine purplish-blue , and shows a semi-metallic lustre .
Under the microscope it is seen to consist of acienlar crystals , which are mostly opaque , but when very thin are transparent , and appear pale olive-coloured by transmitted light .
It softens at 205 ' C. , but it has no definite melting-point .
When strongly heated in a glass , tube it is decomposed without yielding any crystalline sublimate , leaving a voluminous charcoal ; heated on platinum it burns away without leaving any ash .
It is insoluble in water , sparingly soluble in boiling alcohol and ether , more easily soluble in benzol and carbon disulphide , and very easily soluble in chloroform , The solutions when diluted have a dull-purplish or pink colour , and show an absorption spectrum identical with one already depicted as belonging to one of the derivatives of phyllocyanin ( ' Proceedings , ' vol. 42 , Plate 1 , fig. 13 ) .
It dissolves in boiling glacial acetic acid and crystallises out on cooling .
It is also soluble in concentrated hydrochloric acid , giving a solution which has the same greenish-blue colour , and shows the same absorption-bands as a solution of phyllocyanin in the same menstruum , but on the addition of water it is precipitated unchanged .
The quantity of the product , in a crude state , obtained by the method described , amounted to 4'5 parts from 1000 of dry grass .
When methylic alcohol is employed in the extraction of leaves , and the same process as that above described is gone through , a similar compound is obtained , but differing from it in some respects .
It crystallises in lustrous purple needles , rather lighter in colour than those from ethylic alcohol ; it has no definite melting point ; it is hardly soluble in boiling alcohol or ether , but easily soluble in chloroform , the solution showing the same absorption-bands as that of the other compound .
It can hardly be doubted that this is the corresponding methyl ether .
These compounds are insoluble in aqueous alkalis , and are very little changed by prolonged boiling therewith , but on treatment with alcoholic potash or soda they are immediately dissolved and decomposed .
The process is apparently one of saponification , the product Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
451 being the substance of which the compounds are the ethyl and methyl ethers respectively .
In order to obtain this product the ethyl compound is treated with boiling alcoholic soda , in which it readily dissolves .
The solution on standing deposits a sodium compound in the shape of a dark-green , almost black , semi-crystalline mass , which is filtered off , washed with absolute alcohol , and dissolved in water .
The dark-green solution gives with acetic acid , of which a great excess must be avoided , a green flocculent precipitate , which is filtered off , thoroughly washed with water , and dissolved in ether .
On slow evaporation the ethereal solution yields lustrous purple crystals , which must be separated before the solution has quite evaporated , for if there be any free acid present this will after most of the ether has evaporated , begin to act on the substance , inducing a change to which I shall allude presently .
The substance thus prepared is identical with that formed directly by the action of alkali on phyllocyanin , but by the process just described it is obtained in a state of much greater purity than by the direct method .
Having read nearly everything that has been written on the chemistry of chlorophyll , I have come to the conclusion that this substance has never previously been described , and I think myself entitled therefore to give it a name .
I propose to call it Phyllotaonin ( from t xw , a peacock ) .
Properties of Phyllotaonin.\#151 ; On spontaneous evaporation of its ethereal solution , it is obtained in regular flattened crystals or crystalline scales , which by reflected light appear of a fine peacock or steel-blue colour ; the crystals are mostly opaque , but when very thin they are transparent and then appear brown by transmitted light .
It melts at 184 ' to a brown resinous mass , but partial decomposition results from fusion , since the melted mass is no longer entirely soluble in chloroform , a little carbonaceous matter being left undissolved .
Heated on platinum it swells up , giving off much gas and leaving a voluminous coal which burns away without residue ; heated in a tube it swells and is charred without giving any perceptible sublimate .
Phyllotaonin is insoluble in boiling water .
It is easily soluble in boiling alcohol and ether , but it does not crystallise out on the solutions cooling ; the solutions have the same colour , and show exactly the same absorption-bands as solutions of phyllocyanin , but if the least trace of any acid be present in the solution the spectrum gradually changes , the third band from the red end becoming fainter , while the^ fourth band as well as the first splits up into two .
It is soluble in benzol and carbon disulphide , and very easily soluble in chloroform and aniline , but insoluble in ligroin .
Phyllotaonin is easily soluble in glacial acetic acid , giving a solution of a fine violet colour , which shows a spectrum differing from that of the ethereal solution , and by this means it may be at once distinguished from Dr. E. Schunck .
phyllocyanin , which dissolves in ether and in acetic acid , both solutions having a dull green colour , and showing the same spectrum .
It is also soluble in concentrated hydrochloric acid , the solution having a bright bluish-green colour .
In contact with acids phyllotaonin undergoes a series of changes , accompanied by corresponding changes in the absorption spectrum .
If to an ethereal or alcoholic solution of phyllotaonin a small quantity of an acid , such as hydrochloric , sulphuric , oxalic , tartaric or acetic acid be added , the colour of the solution changes slowly from green to brown , and now shows the spectrum frequently referred to in which two bands , that in the red and that in the green , are seen split up into two ( see fig. 11 of the Plate previously referred to ) .
A further change takes place on standing , one of the bands in the green becoming darker , the other lighter ( see spectrum , fig. 12 ) .
Here the action stops with all the acids named except acetic acid .
On treating phyllotaonin with boiling glacial acetic acid it dissolves , and the dark purple solution if sufficiently concentrated deposits on cooling crystalline needles , arranged in fan-shaped masses .
These collected on a filter and dried show a fine purple colour , and closely resemble the supposed ethyl-compound of phyllotaonin ; its solutions show the same absorption spectrum as the latter .
This product is doubtless a compound with acetic acid ; stronger acids such as sulphuric or hydrochloric acid yield no similar compounds .
The products formed by the action of acids may in all cases be re-converted into phyllotaonin by means of alkali .
The process of re-conversion may be traced in its course with the crystallised acetate .
If the latter be treated with aqueous potash in the cold it dissolves ; acetic acid added gives a green precipitate which dissolves in ether , the solution showing the spectrum of fig. 11 , but if boiling alcoholic potash be employed , the corresponding ethereal solution shows the spectrum of phyllotaonin .
Under the influence of acetic acid the latter again passes through the series of changes previously described .
That the changes induced on the one hand by acids , and on the other by alkalis , are due in one case to hydration and in the other to dehydration , seems probable .
After being heated to the melting point , phyllotaonin gives solutions showing the spectrum , fig. 12 , but by treatment of the fused substance with alcoholic potash it returns to its original state .
It is difficult to attribute the change in this case to anything but loss of water , the latter being taken up again on treatment with alkali .
A potassium compound of phyllotaonin is obtained on adding potash to an alcoholic solution of the substance ; it crystallises in needles whioh are purple by reflected light .
The sodium compound obtained in the same way is hardly crystalline .
A boiling alcoholic solution of phyllotaonin to which cupric acetate and acetic acid have Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
453 been added , deposits on cooling and standing a quantity of crystalline needles arranged in pretty rosettes which , after filtering off and drying , appear bluish-green by reflected as well as by transmitted light , and show no metallic lustre ; the alcoholic solution of this compound shows the same absorption spectrum as that of the corresponding phyllocyanin compound , and , like the latter , it is not decomposed nor in any way changed by treatment with boiling hydrochloric acid .
Similar compounds containing iron and silver may be obtained , but their properties are not sufficiently interesting to merit detailed description ; they resemble the corresponding phyllocyanin compounds .
On adding metallic tin to a solution of phyllotaonin in hydrochloric acid and allowing to stand , the solution soon loses its bright bluish-green colour , and becomes olive-green , finally reddish-yellow .
Water now gives a red precipitate , which filtered off and washed dissolves in alcohol with a crimson colour , the solution showing a spectrum similar to that of the final product of the action of tin and hydrochloric acid on phyllocyanin .
Though there can be little doubt as to the purple crystals formed by the action of hydrochloric acid on an alcoholic solution of alkaline chlorophyll being an ether , I have not succeeded in reproducing it by the direct action of acid on an alcoholic solution of phyllotaonin .
The solution retains its bluish-green colour unchanged , deposits no crystals even on long standing , and gives with water a precipitate consisting of uncombined phyllotaonin .
A compound resembling that in the purple crystals may , however , be formed from phyllotaonin by a different process .
If to an alcoholic.solution of phyllotaonin ethyl iodide and a little caustic potash be added , the solution on boiling deposits a small quantity of a black powder , which being collected on a filter and treated with dilute acid , is found to be soluble in alcohol , ether , and chloroform , giving purple solutions which show the same spectrum as solutions of the purple crystals .
It is , however , easily soluble in aqueous alkali , and may therefore be a mono-ethyl , the other being a di-ethyl ether .
It is probably identical with the compound formed directly from phyllocyanin by a similar process , as described in the first part of this memoir , in the solutions of which the spectrum ( fig. 13 ) so frequently referred to was first observed .
This very peculiar spectrum belongs , it appears , to four distinct compounds .
In order to explain the formation of the purple crystals by the process above described , we may suppose that by the influence of alkalis chlorophyll is first converted into a substance which by decomposition with acids yields phyllotaonin , and this in the nascent state and in contact with alcohol and hydrochloric acid undergoes etherification .
Of the compounds above described I have analysed such as were 454 Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
well crystallised and appeared to be pure , but I will not give the results until I have had an opportunity of confirming them with freshly prepared material .
The difficulty experienced in preparing sufficient quantities of pure substances from chlorophyll has proved a great drawback in this investigation and has much retarded its progress .
My friend Dr. Burghardt , of the Owens College , has had the kindness to examine at my request the crystalline form ( fig. 2 ) of phyllotaonin , and reports as follows Fio .
2 .
Crystal system monosymmetrical , oblique rectangular prism , formed by the combination of the ortho- and clino-pinacoids .
The terminal faces are a negative hemipyramid .
The faces b ( 010 Miller or odra .
Naumann ) predominate , giving a " vertical tabular habit " to the crystal .
It was impossible to obtain any measurements of the angles owing to the smallness of the crystals and the roughness of the faces .
The value , therefore , of the hemipyramid indices is unknown .
The faces " a " are 100 ( Miller ) or aUx ( Naumann ) , whilst the faces " c " are the negative hemipyramid \#151 ; hhl ( Miller ) or \#151 ; mP ( Naumann ) .
They cleave parallel to the ortho-pinacoid distinctly .
Examined in polarised light they exhibit depolarisation , on rotating the Nicol 's prism the colour changing from a light-yellow to a rich brownish-red .
/ r

