298 Prof. R. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ Nov. 10 spectrum the ordinary lines of oxygen and nitrogen are well seen The silicium lines 4089*1 and 4116*4 , denoted in the reproduction , are shown in the top spectrum , but they are entirely lacking in the air ; spectrum at the bottom .
It would be remarkable that these lines , if really due to air , should not appear in the air spectrum itself .
More over , the lines do not appear in the spark spectra of any of the chemical elements investigated other than silicium , although in all these the ordinary air lines are always well shown .
To sum up , the lines of Group IV have never been noted in anyj Kensington spectra without being accompanied by silicium lines of ] other groups , and they never appear unless silicium in some form orj other is used in the light source furnishing the spectrum .
With regard to their identity with stellar lines , whatever their true terrestrial origin may be , there is scarcely any doubt .
They agree exactly in wave-length with very strong lines in the spectra of the belt stars of Orion , and with less conspicuous lines in many other stellar spectra , for which no other satisfactory origin has been suggested .
" On Chemical Combination and Toxic Action as exemplified in Haemolytic Sera."* By Robert Muir , M.D. , Professor of Pathology , University of Glasgow , and Carl H. Browning , M.B. , Ch. B. , Carnegie Research Fellow , University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received November 10 , \#151 ; Read December 1 , 1904 .
It is now well known that the action of a haemolytic serum depends upon two substances , viz. : ( a ) the immune-body , which is developed as the result of the injection of the red corpuscles of an animal of different species , and ( b ) the complement , a labile substance which is present in the serum of the normal animal , and which is not increased as the result of such injection .
Ehrlich has pointed out the similarity in the constitution of complements and of various toxins , and our own observations strongly support his views .
We may , in the study of haemolysis , consider the complement as a toxin , the red corpuscles treated with the appropriate immune-body as the object on which the toxin is to act , and the haemolysis as the indication of the toxic action .
Ehrlich regards the complement as consisting of two chief atom-groups , the haptophore or combining , group and the zymotoxic ; but in speaking of the action of sera he does not always carry out this distinction completely .
For example , the efficiency of different complements as tested by their haemolytic or bacteriolytic effects is often taken as * The expenses of this research were defrayed by a grant from the Carnegie Trustees .
1904 ] On Chemical Combination and Toxic , etc. 299 Evidence of the degree of chemical affinity between the complements and the imtiaune-body .
But it is manifest that theoretically a complement may combine perfectly through the medium of the immune-body , and yet produce little haemolysis , owing to the absence of sensitiveness to the zymotoxic group\#151 ; combination or " complementing " may occur and yet haemolysis be deficient or absent .
The question which we have investigated is accordingly this\#151 ; Where different complements differ in their action as shown by the dosage , both of complement and of immune-body required , does this depend upon differences in their combining affinities or upon differences in their itoxicity 1 i In working out this problem we have made use of three sera , viz. : ( a ) the serum of the rabbit injected with ox 's corpuscles , therefore haemolytic towards ox 's corpuscles , ( 6 ) the serum of the rabbit injected with guinea-pig 's corpuscles , ( c ) the serum of the guinea-pig injected with rabbit 's corpuscles .
In each case the haemolytic serum is deprived \gt ; of its complement by heating at 55 ' C. and , therefore , contains only immune-body ; it is accordingly inactive until complement ( i.e. , normal serum ) is added .
In this and the other tables the following abbreviations are used : IB = immune body , and v. is placed before the name of the animal on whose corpuscles the immune-body acts , thus IB rabbit v. guinea-pig signifies the immune-body obtained from the rabbit , and acting on I guinea-pig 's corpuscles , C = complement , ID = one haemolytic dose ) ( of IB or C as the case may be ) .
In the first place , we may give in tabular form , the average dosage of the several complements with the different immune sera : the test amount of corpuscles being 1 c.c. of a 5-per-cent , suspension in i 0'8 per cent , sodium chloride solution .
Immune-body and corpuscles tested .
Rabbit 's complement .
Guinea-pig 's complement .
Ox 's complement .
IB rabbit v. ox 1 015 c.c. 0'025 c.c. 00 Ox 's corpuscles J IB rabbit v. guinea-pig 1 Guinea-pig 's corpuscles J * * *# 015 " .
- .
03 " 0 03 c.c.* IB guinea-pig v. rabbit !
Rabbit s corpuscles j * 0-5 " 1 0 07 " 0 04 " * * The normal serum of the ox has a strong haemolytic action both on rabbit 's 8\gt ; nd on guinea-pig 's corpuscles .
This is due to the presence of a natural immune-body , and it is not possible to remove this in the usual way by placing the serum in Contact with the corpuscles at 0 ' 0 .
We have , however , made allowance for this Circumstance , and the dosage of complement has been calculated accordingly , and may be taken as substantially correct .
* VOL. LXXIV .
2 A Prof. E. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ Nov. 10 This table shows that in the cases studied the highest dosage of the complement of an animal occurs when used against its own corpuscles .
Dosage of Immune-bodies with different Complements .
Complement .
IB rabbit v. ox .
IB rabbit v. guinea-pig .
IB guinea-gig v. rabbit ; Rabbit 's . .
0 *003 c.c. 0 003 c.c. 015 c.c. t Ghiinea-pig 's 0*003 " 0*03 " 0015 " , Ox 's .
00 p # 0-02 " 1 1 The most striking facts brought out in this table concern the relative doses of immune-bodies with rabbit 's and guinea-pig 's complements respectively , they are ( a ) in the case of an immune-body acting on the corpuscles of another animal ( viz. , ox 's corpuscles ) , its dose with rabbit 's complement is practically the same as that with guinea-pig 's complement ; ( b ) when the immune-body acts on guinea-pig 's corpuscles its dose is ten times greater with guinea-pig 's complement than with rabbit 's complement , and a converse statement obtains in the case of the immune-body to rabbit 's corpuscles .
It is also to be noted that the immune-body to ox 's corpuscles does not bring about complete haemolysis at all when the ox 's complement is used .
These tables supply the haemolytic doses of the different immune-bodies and complements ; they do not , however , give us the facts with regard to their several combinations .
In illustration of this we may mention that Ehrlich and Morgenroth , t finding that the dose of the immune-body to rabbit 's corpuscles obtained from the guinea-pig was ten times higher ( as shown in the table ) when rabbit 's complement was used than when guinea-pig 's complement was used , supposed that there were really two immune-bodies , one present in large amount taking up guinea-pig 's complement and another present in small quantity taking up rabbit 's complement .
This is manifestly a satisfactory theoretical explanation , but we have to enquire whether it is supported by facts .
We shall accordingly consider the amounts of complement taken up through the medium of different doses of immune-body in the several cases .
It will be convenient to take first the second and third sera , as above arranged .
The method employed for estimating the amount of| # We have not succeeded in getting a satisfactory estimation of the dose of tjpjjj immune-body with ox 's complement , owing to failure to remove the natural ' immune-body for guinea-pig 's corpuscles in the ox 's serum .
t Ehrlich and Morgenroth , * Berlin , klin .
Woch .
, ' 1900 , No. 31 .
1904.1 On Chemical Combination and Toxic Action , etc. complement taken up depends upon the firmness of union of complement , and has been described in former papers.* I. Immune-body to Guinea-pig 's Corpuscles ( \lt ; by injecting the Rabbit with these corpuscles ) .
: ( a ) With Guinea-pig 's Complement\#151 ; 1 We may first compare the results when guinea-pig 's complement is ised , with those when rabbit 's complement is used .
In the former aase the dose of complement is very high ; in fact , more than ten times , he amount of guinea-pig 's complement sufficient to hsemolyse ox 's corpuscles , is necessary to hsemolyse its own* corpuscles .
This might jbe due to the fact that only a fraction of the complement molecules suited the immune-body to guinea-pig 's corpuscles , or it might be due merely to weakness of toxic action of the complement .
If the former were the case the presence of the uncombined complement would be shown by adding the corpuscles of another animal'treated with the corresponding immune-body .
The matter is put to the test by adding varying amounts of guinea-pig 's complement to guinea-pig 's corpuscles with their corresponding immune-body , and then after allowing 2 hours at 37 ' C. for combination , to test for the presence of complement by means of ox 's corpuscles treated with their immune-body .
If we use 1 D of immune-body to indicate the amount necessary to produce lysis when rabbit 's complement is used , then 10 D will be the M.H.D. when guinea-pig 's complement is used .
The following are the chief results which we have obtained .
It is to be noted that , of course , if less than 10 D is added complete lysis does not occur with guinea-pig 's complement , and in such cases the tubes are cen-trifugalised and the clear fluid is added to the indicator , i.e. , ox 's corpuscles treated with their immune-body .
This indicator is specially suitable on account of the high sensitiveness of the corpuscles to guinea-pig 's complement .
Such an experiment may be graphically ^represented thus\#151 ; Guinea-pig 's O +nlH-\-x guinea-pig 's C .
+ Ox 's O + IB the small circle indicating red corpuscles , the vertical dotted line a period of incubation at 37 ' C. , nindicating a definite multiple of IB , and x varying amounts of C. I t**'* \#166 ; kanceb* 1903 , yoI .
2 , p. 446 ; and Muir and Browning , ' Roy .
Soc. 302 Prof. R. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ Nov. 10 IB Rabbit v. Guinea-pig .
Guinea-pig 's 0 .
Experiment XLII.\#151 ; 2 D of IB took up 0-08 c.c. guinea-pig 's 0 8 , , " 0-288 " Dose of guinea-pig 's C = about 0-3 c.c. " XLIII.\#151 ; 1 D of IB took up 0-026 c.c. guinea-pig 's C. 5 " " 0114 " 10 " " 0-254 " Dose of C = 0*25 c.c. " XLIV.\#151 ; 1 D of IB took up 0-014 c.c. guinea-pig 's C. 14 " 0*38 " Dose of C = 0-35 c.c. " LXIX.\#151 ; 1 D of IB took up 0-04 c.c. guinea-pig 's C. 5 " " 0-28 " 10 " " 0-48 \#166 ; " Dose of C = 0-4 c.c. From these results it is manifest that the large amount of guinea-pig 's complement necessary to produce lysis , combines completely with the guinea-pig 's corpuscles treated with the corresponding immune-body , there being , up to a certain point , no complement left over to act on the test corpuscles , and the large dose of immune-body necessary is simply due to this amount being required to bring the necessary complement into combination with the corpuscles .
The guinea-pig 's complement has , therefore , a toxic action on guinea- pig 's corpuscles , about ten times weaker than it has , for example , on ox 's corpuscles .
Note.\#151 ; The amount of complement taken up is calculated from the point at which free complement is obtainable after time has been allowed for combination* It will be noticed that the amount of complement taken up is approximately , though not strictly , proportional to the amount of immune-body present .
The divergence is more marked when higher multiples are used , as has been noted by one of us in the case of another combination ; in other words , what is known as i( Ehrlich 's phenomenon , " is seen to a slight extent .
As , however , there is very little evidence of dissociation of complement after it has combined , the phenomenon in this case is probably due to presence of complementoid .
( b ) With Rabbit 's Complement\#151 ; It will be seen from the tables that ( a ) the M.H.D. of immune-body in this case is small\#151 ; about a tenth of that necessary when guinea-pig 's complement is used , and ( b ) that the dose of complement also is comparatively small , in fact , practically the same as that necessary for the haemolysis of ox 's corpuscles .
In investigating the amount of rabbit 's complement taken up by means of multiple doses of immune-body , interesting and at first very puzzling results emerged .
Alfc 1904 ] On Chemical Combination and Toxic etc. ' 303 Experiment of this kind may be graphically represented as before , jhus:\#151 ; Guinea-pig 's Q+nlB + x rabbit 's C j Guinea-pig 's O + IB .
In performing experiments of this kind we found that five or even jen doses of immune-body apparently led to the taking up of scarcely more complement than one dose of immune-body did ; and further ihat the amount of complement apparently taken up seemed to become less , the longer the test corpuscles were left in the fluid .
Thus , if or example , at the end of 2 hours , 15 c.c. of complement might appear to be taken up , and next morning only *05 c.c. It appeared , therefore , ( a ) that multiple doses of immune-body did not lead to the taking up of corresponding multiple doses of complement , and ( b ) that the complement taken up appeared to dissociate again in part , though this phenomenon might possibly be due to the presence of some complement molecules with very slow action .
When , however , bre used as the indicator occ 's corpuscles treated with their corresponding immune-body , quite different results were obtained .
The scheme is now:\#151 ; Guinea-pig 's Q +n IB + x rabbit 's C j + Ox 's O + IB .
The following results will serve as examples :\#151 ; 0 Experiment LX.-\#151 ; 1 D of IB took up 0.2 c.c. rabbit 's C. 3 " , , 0 45 , , , , 10 " " 1*16 " " 1 The M.H.D. of C was only 0'1 c.c. before the experiment ; it is possible that it may have increased subsequently .
Experiment LXVIII.\#151 ; 2 D of IB took up 0*28 c.c. rabbit 's C. 5 n '\#187 ; 0*58 , , , , 10 " " 0*74 " " ; The M.H.D. of C was 0*06 c.c. It is thus seen that when ox 's corpuscles suitably treated are used as the indicator , the amount of complement taken up increases as the amount of immune-body is increased , though there is a greater deviation from strict arithmetical proportion than when guinea-pig 's complement is used .
The difference in the results obtained with the two indicators ( guinea-pig 's and ox 's corpuscles respectively ) , is manifestly due to the fact that there is in the rabbit 's serum a complement which acts on guinea-pig 's corpuscles , and not on ox 's corpuscles , and that this : complement either becomes dissociated from the guinea-pig 's corpuscles or combines in very small amount .
On the other hand the chief I * complement present acts on both varieties , and its union is a firm one ; 304 Prof. R Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ Nov. 10 even with this combination , however , the amount taken up appeared to diminish somewhat over night .
The fact already stated that , when guinea-pig 's corpuscles were used as the indicator , additional doses of immune-body did not appear to lead to the takingW of additional amounts of complement , raised the question whether there might not be two immune-bodies present , one of which acted with rabbit 's complement and one with guinea-pig 's complement .
Evidence of this was sought for by leaving the immune-serum in contact with the corpuscles for a time , then separating by centrifugalisation , and thereafter testing the dose of the un-combined immune-body with rabbit 's and with guinea-pig 's complement respeo-i tively .
It is evident that if two immune-bodies were present , and were taken up by the corpuscles in different proportions , then the relative doses of the separated j fluid would become changed .
Such an investigation is theoretically of simple i nature , but it is difficult to carry it out exactly , owing to the fact that it is not possible to remove completely the natural immune-body from the rabbit 's serum , i.e. , to make this serum entirely devoid of haemolytic action .
In several experiments , however , allowance being made for this circumstance , it appeared that the relative doses with the two complements did alter in the way that the dose with guinea-pig 's complement became relatively still higher , i.e. , after the contact with the corpuscles there seemed to be immune-body molecules left , which acted with rabbit 's , but not with guinea-pig 's complement .
This may mean merely that the molecules of immune-body vary in their combining affinities , and that those with the weaker affinity act with the more powerful complement ( rabbit 's ) .
The ] question is one of great complexity , and we have not attempted a full solution , as it did not appear necessary for the purposes of the present research .
Everything goes to show , however , that the great majority of the immune-body molecules act both with rabbit 's and with guinea-pig 's complement ; and we found that the presence of a small amount , of guinea-pig 's complement kept out of combination a certain amount of rabbit 's complement , and versa .
( c ) With Ox 's Complement\#151 ; The ox 's complement is not a very suitable one to employ in this combination , as the natural serum of the ox has a very powerful haemolytic action in itself , and it is only possible to remove a small proportion of the natural immune-body by contact experiments .
Nevertheless , we have found that the dose of ox 's complement , along with the immune-body to guinea-pig 's corpuscles , is a small one , and there is no doubt that guinea-pig 's - corpuscles are very sensitive to the zymotoxic action of ox complement .
When we come to investigate the combining affinities , we find that multiple doses of immune-body have very little effect on the amount of ox 's complement taken up , the amount taken up by means of from four to eight doses , for example , being very little more than that taken up by means of one dose .
This may be due to a true want of combining affinity on the part Of the complement , or it may be due to the combination being a very loose one .
It may be noted , however , that there is practically no evidence of dissociation of complement in the course of 12 hours .
The following will serve as an example :\#151 ; 1904 .
] On Chemical Combination and Toxic , etc. Experiment LXXIY.\#151 ; 1 D of IB took up 0*04 c.c. of ox 's C. 4 " " 0-042 " " .
The indicator was guinea-pig 's corpuscles treated with immune-body , ior which the dose of ox 's complement was 0*02 c.c. \ II , Immune-body to Rabbit 's Corpuscles ( by injecting the Guinea- Pi(j\ i ( a ) With Rabbit 's Complement.\#151 ; This case is in many ways analogous to that of the immune-body to iguinea-pig 's corpuscles along with guinea-pig 's complement .
In both icases the haemolytic dose of immune-body is ten times greater when the complement of the animal whose corpuscles are being tested is used , than when the complement of the other animal is used .
This will be !
seen from the table .
In this case , also , the dose of rabbit 's complement is high , just as in the previous case the dose of guinea-pig 's complement was .
How much rabbit 's complement is taken up when multiple doses of immune-body are used 1 The scheme of experiment is:\#151 ; Rabbit 's O + nIB -1- xrabbit 's C j + Ox 's O + IB .
The following are some of the results :\#151 ; Experiment LXII.\#151 ; 1 D of IB takes up 0*14 c.c. rabbit 's C. 10 " " 1-16 " " " LXIII.\#151 ; 1 D of IB takes up 0-22 c.c. rabbit 's C. 10 " " 1-12 " " " LXYI.\#151 ; 1 D of IB takes up 0*086 c.c. rabbit 's C. 5 , , j , 0*55 , , , , 10 " " 0*9 " " Dose of rabbit 's C with rabbit 's corpuscleis = 0*6 c.c. " 1 D " = M.H.D. of IB along with guinea-pig 's C. " 10 D " = M.H.D. with rabbit 's C ( vide tables ) .
It will be seen that there is no lack of combining-power on the part of rabbit 's complement , and that the amount increases with the amount of immune-body , though considerable deviations from exact arithmetical proportions are met with .
Sometimes more , proportionally , is taken up by 10 haemolytic doses than by 1 haemolytic dose , sometimes less ; we have met with the former phenomenon in several other experiments than that quoted , and are not able to give at present an explanation of *t- Another point is that the haemolytic dose of immune-body ( expressed as " 10 D. of IB .
" ) leads to the taking up of more than a 306 Prof. E. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ Hov .
10 haemolytic dose of rabbit 's complement .
This phenomenon is , probably related to the fact brought out by Morgenroth and Sachs , * that the M.H.D. of complement sometimes varies greatly , according to the amount of immune-body used , and , conversely , the M.H.D. of immune-body may vary greatly , according to the amount of complement .
The .explanation of this is also outside the scope of the present paper .
( b ) With Guinea-Pig 's Complement\#151 ; The combination of guinea-pig 's complement may be exemplified by the following Experiment LXII.\#151 ; 1 D of IB took up 0-04 c.c. guinea-pig 's C. .
10 " " 0-36 " " LXIII.\#151 ; 1 D of IB took up 0*012 c.c. guinea-pig 's C. 10 " " 0*27 " The indicator was ox 's corpuscles treated with immune-body .
Here we have variations corresponding to those noted above .
We have also found that with this immune-body a small quantity of guinea-pig 's complement keeps out of combination a certain amount of rabbit 's complement , and that saturation with rabbit 's complement implies practical saturation for guinea-pig 's complement also .
A similar statement applies to rabbit 's complement keeping out guinea-pig 's complement .
( c ) With Ox 's Complement\#151 ; Owing to the lack of serum , we have been unable to study the combining relationships of ox 's complement through the medium of this immune-body .
This defect , however , cannot modify the main conclusions arrived at .
III .
Immune-body to Ox 's Corpuscles by injecting the Rabbit ) .
It will be seen from the tables above that the dose of immune-body is practically the same with guinea-pig 's as with rabbit 's complement .
The dose of the latter complement is the higher , and in a previous paperf it was shown that this was probably due to a smaller number of complement molecules in a given volume of serum , rather than to a weaker action of the zymotoxic group .
The combining relationships of the two complements have also been fully discussed there , so that it is unnecessary to repeat the results obtained .
It is sufficient to say chat they behave as regards combination in haemolysis pretty much as if they had the same haptophore groups .
We shall refer merely to the action of ox 's complement along with the above immune-body .
With this combination it is usually impossible to produce more than A fraction of lysis in the corpuscles ( usually not more than a tenth ) , no * Morgenroth and Sachs , 'Berlin , klin .
Woch .
, ' 1902 , No. 35 .
-+ Muir and Browning , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' June 9 , 1904 .
1904 .
] On Chemical Combination and Toxic Action , etc. 307 .matter how large amounts of immune-body and complement are used ; in only one case did we get a considerable amount of lysis , about three-fourths .
We never obtained complete lysis , however .
In other words , the ox 's serum does not " complement .
" Is this due to want of combining power of the ox 's complement , or to the deficiency of toxic faction 1 This question can be answered by finding the amount of | complement taken up when varying amounts of immune-body are used .
I The scheme is :\#151 ; Ox 's O + nIB + x ox 's C .
guinea-pig 's O + IB .
As lysis does not occur in the first stage , the contents of each tube are centrifugalised , and the fluid is added to the guinea-pig 's corpuscles .
The following results were obtained:\#151 ; Experiment LXXIIR\#151 ; 1 D of IB took up 0*04 c.c. ox 's C. 4 " 8 " .
, 0*05 " Dose of ox 's complement for guinea-pig 's corpuscles = 0*03 c.c. Experiment LXXIV.\#151 ; 1 D of IB took up 0*014 c.c. ox 's C. 4 " " 0*02 " " 8 \#187 ; \#187 ; \#187 ; \#187 ; \gt ; \gt ; \#187 ; Dose of ox 's complement for guinea-pig 's corpuscles = 0*02 c.c. From these it is evident ( 1 ) that a considerable amount of ox 's complement is taken up by one dose of immune-body ( i.e. , by 1 M.H.D. as tested with rabbit 's or guinea-pig 's complement ) , but this amount of complement , which may be more than sufficient to produce complete lysis of rabbit 's or guinea-pig 's corpuscles , produces almost no lysis of the ox 's corpuscles , and ( 2 ) the total amount of complement which can be taken up is almost reached with one dose of immune-body , additional doses of immune-body scarcely increasing the amount .
There is , of course , in this case , no possibility of the phenomenon being due to dissociation of complement after combination , as the ox 's corpuscles are removed by centrifugalisation before the guinea-pig 's corpuscles are added , and , therefore , any complement obtainable must have been free in the fluid .
Accordingly , we have here , again , an example of the relative nonsensitiveness of an animal 's corpuscles to the action of its own complement when it is brought into union with them by an immune-body .
But , in addition , there is , unlike the two previous cases , a deficiency also in the combining power of complement beyond a certain point , or , in other words , only a small proportion of the molecules of the red corpuscles combined with immune-body ( R + IB molecules ) take up ox 's complement .
The fact that in the case just described , only some of the R + IB molecules take up complement is of considerable theoretical importance .
Prof. R. Muir and Mr. C. H. Browning .
[ Nov. 10 , It is to be noted that almost all the R + IB molecules capable of taking ' up complement are present after the addition of one dose of immune-body , and that the subsequent addition of the same immune-body molecules scarcely increases the amount of complement taken up , though these molecules combine with the receptors of the red corpuscles .
It would therefore appear that the failure on the part of an R +IB molecule to combine with complement , is due in some way to the receptors and not to the immune-body .
According to Ehrlich 's theory the amboceptor i ( immune-body ) has practically no affinity for complement in the free ' state , but acquires that affinity when combined with the tissue or bacterial molecule .
But the result above stated would , according to ] the amboceptor hypothesis , imply that only some molecules capable I of combining with immune-body give the latter affinity for comple-1 meant .
According to the view that the immune-body renders the tissue molecule capable of taking up complement , the explanation would simply be that some of the molecules of the ox 's corpuscles have no combining-group for the ox 's complement , though they enter into combination with immune-body .
It is not possible on theoretical grounds to establish either of these hypotheses by the exclusion of the other , but whichever may be ultimately established , the importance of the nature of the tissue molecule in determining whether complement will be taken up or not is brought out with sufficient clearness .
If we consider the action of guinea-pig 's and rabbit 's complements , it will appear that the striking variations in dosage brought out in the original tables , are due to the zymotoxic and not to the haptophore group .
The combining relationships of the two complements may be compared in another way , viz. , by adding a large amount of immune-body , say ten doses , and finding the ratio of rabbit 's to guinea-pig 's complement taken up in the case of the three sera .
We have carried this out , and the following are the results .
It was found most convenient to compare only two sera on the same day .
Manifestly , only the two ratios in the same experiment are comparable .
Ratio Experiment LXX\#151 ; of two Cs .
fj Ox 's corpuscles ... ... .
10 D IB took up 0*44 c.e. guinea-pig 's C 1 ^ # " " ... ... .
" " 0-56 " rabbit 's O J Ouinea-pig 's corpuscles. .
" " 0*48 " guinea-pig 's Cl ^ t " " . .
" " 0 56 " rabbit 's C / Experiment LXXI\#151 ; Ox 's corpuscles ... ... .
10 D IB took up 0*18 c.c. guinea-pig 's C]^ , 2*6 .
" " ---- ... .
" " 0-48 " rabbit 's O ^ J Guinea-pig 's corpuscles . .
" " 0'28 " guinea-pig 's 01 ^ ; " " . .
' " " 0-6 " rabbit 's O / Experiment LXXII \#151 ; Ox 's corpuscles ... ... ... 10 D IB took up 0*26 c.c. guinea-pig 's 01 ^ " ... ... ... ... ... .
" " 0-36 " rabbit 's 0 / Rabbit 's corpuscles ... .
" " 0*36 " guinea-pig 's C1 ^ , ^4 " " ... .
" ' " 0-54 " rabbit 's 0 J 1904 .
] .
On Chemical Combination and Toxic , Action , etc. 309 It is thus seei^that a comparatively close correspondence , considering the conditions of experiment , is brought out between the combining-patios of the two complements in the case of these three sera .
The chief results may be summarised as follows 1 .
In the action of a complement there are two distinct factors , viz. , i ( a ) power of chemical combination , and ( b ) toxic action , corresponding to the " haptophore " and the " zymotoxic " groups of Ehrlich ; deficiency in j the action of complement ( or in " complementing " ) does not necessarily | imply want of combining affinity , but may be entirely due to the non-sensitiveness of the tissue-molecule to the zymotoxic group , i 2 .
In the case of the three haemolytic sera studied the outstanding | fact is the large dose both of immune-body and of complement necessary when we use the complement of the same species of animal as that whose corpuscles are being tested .
3 .
In all three cases there is a relative non-sensitiveness of the corpuscles of the animal to the zymotoxic group of its own complement ; hence a large dose of immune-body is requisite to bring into combination the amount of complement necessary for haemolysis .
In one case ( that of the ox ) there is also a deficiency in the combining power of the complement with the receptors of the red corpuscles united to* immune-body ; from the two conditions acting together complete haemolysis cannot be obtained .
4 .
Although differences among the molecules of the same immune-serum may occur , we have found no evidence that the striking differences in the dosage of the immune-body with different complements , and also in the dosage of various complements , are due to multiplicity of immune-bodies .
No one has yet succeeded in producing an anti-substance or immune-body by injecting an animal with its own corpuscles or cells\#151 ; such a body as with the aid of complement would produce destruction of these cells .
This is manifestly a provision against self-poisoning , and Ehrlich has applied to it the term autotoxicus horror .
The results which we have brought forward , if they were found to hold generally , would go to show that even if some substance should appear which acted as an immune-body , there is a provision whereby the complement of an animal should produce comparatively little harmful effect .

