On the Structure of the Crystalline Lens in Fishes and Quadrupeds , as ascertained by its Action on Polarized Light .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Lond. and Edin .
In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read June 20,1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 311 .
] The author having found that in many instances depolarization depends upon variations of density in the bodies through which it is transmitted , concluded that corresponding effects would , be produced by the crystalline lens of the eye , which is well known to increase in density towards the centre .
By immersing the crystalline lens of a cod in Canada balsam , the refraction at its exterior surface was so far removed , that the effects of its internal texture could be examined independent of its external spherical form .
Under these circumstances , when it was exposed to polarized light , with its axis of vision parallel to the beam of light , it exhibited three concentric circles of light separated by two dark circles , and intersected by a black cross so as to be divided into twelve luminous sectors .
By varying the inclination of the axis , these appearances varied in a manner that can scarcely be described without the assistance of the drawings which accompany this paper .
By removing successively the capsule and outer portions of the lens , the exterior circle of light was first obliterated ; and then the second disappeared , so that ultimately there remained only the central light intersected by a black cross .
On examination of the variation of tints of colours produced by the combined effect of the crystalline with a plate of sulphate of lime , it appeared to the author that the central nucleus , and an exterior spherical coat , are in a state of dilation , while the intermediate coats *are in a state of colntraction .
In the crystallines of sheep and oxen , the author observed a correspondent texture , ; but in these there appeared only one series of luminous sectors .
By examination of the cornea also , Dr. Brewster found a texture similar to that of the nucleus of the crystalline , both in fish and quadrupeds ; but the sclerotic coat has merely a confused power of depolarization , similar to that of a mass of crushed jelly of isinglass , a property which does not really belong to its whole substance , but solely to a thin membrane that covers it externally .
From these experiments Dr. Brewster infers , that all the parts of bthe crystalline of fishes correspondent to the two dark concentric circles , exercise no action upon polarized light ; that a central nucleus and an external spherical shell are in a state of dilatation , and that a shell intermediate between them is in a state of contraction ; that its structure and optical properties are not alike in all directions , but have reference to the axis of vision ; and that its peculiar structure probably is necessary for correcting spherical aberration .

