XIV .
" Preliminary Notice of Additional Researches on the Cinchona Alkaloids."Part II .
By W. BIRD HERAPATI , M.D. &amp;c. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received June 17 , 1858 .
Since the author had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society his paper entitled " Researches on the Cinchona Alkaloids , " Parts I. and II .
, he has been much occupied with a continuation of the subject , and he has arrived at important results , which , although in an unfinished state , he hastens to lay before the scientific world , in order to assure himself of the priority of discovery .
Having had occasion to make some experiments upon the rotatory power of the / 3-quinidin mentioned in the first part of his paper , he arrived at the conclusion that some other feebly dextro-gyrate alkaloid accompanied it , and of a more soluble and less crystallizable character .
Consequently , on its further purification by frequent recrystallization from alcohol , the quinidin was obtained perfectly pure ; it then had the molecular rotation assigned to it by Pasteur , namely 250 ?
' 75/ .
Two examinations have given the following elements : I. Its solution having been made in rectified spirit of '836 by boiling , and crystallized at 62 ?
F. , the concentrated solution decanted gave the following elements for Biot 's formula : Arc c. A. 1 .
blue violet .
*02728 -85172 315 8 180.5/ = 251o ?
7/ II .
Its sulphate , perfectly neutral , and concentrated at 61 ?
F.:e , S. 1 .
Arc. '0088441 1-00406 315-8 7 ?
/= 249 ?
055/ These observations were all made with the naked eye , and the tint of passage was that of the blue-violet petal .
When the pink violet , or lilac tint was employed , the arc observed was 20 ?
'25 for No. I. experiment , which with the same elements of calculation gave 2740'093V ; and with No. II .
, the arc 25 ?
'75 , which , as before , gave 279ยง 7 .
The slightly dextro-gyrate alkaloid existing as a contamination was quinicine ; and upon its removal , the / -quinidin had the same solubility in ether as the quinidin of Pasteur .
One very peculiar circumstance elicited during this examination , was the fact that the perfectly pure recrystallized quinidin , if made into the neutral sulphate and crystallized by cooling , produces , if made with distilled water at 212 ?
F. , a slightly greenish solution , however great the care which might have been taken to remove all the mother-water by washing the crystal on the filter .
This green tint deepens considerably during concentration , or by boiling , and at length gives rise to the erroneous impression that some salt of copper is present : in this condition , a tube having a length of 315'8 millims. , when filled with the solution , is absolutely impervious to light .
It is probable that some molecular change is produced by the action of boiling , even if only for a short time ; therefore it was necessary to make a concentrated solution at 120 ?
F. , and set in repose for some days at 62 ?
F. , by which precaution the solution experienced only a very slight discoloration .
When formerly experimenting on P-quinidin , the author obtained an iodo-sulphate very different from that which he has described as indicative of the qainidin of Pasteur : having pursued this inquiry , he is now enabled to state that his former discrepancies arose from the fact that quinidin forms two iodo-sulphates , according to the manner in which it is treated .
1st .
When a dilute solution of the acid sulphate of quinidin is mixed with one-third or one-half its bulk of rectified spirit and raised to 160 ?
or 180 ?
, then treated with tincture of iodine in small quantities , the red iodo-sulphate is produced , having the characters previously described as indicative of quinidin , -quinine , when similarly treated , invariably producing the optical salt .
The only precaution necessary to be taken in the case of the alkaloid quinidin is to avoid adding an excess of iodine ; otherwise an amorphous resinoid substance is deposited which will not crystallize .
2ndly .
But when we treat the acid sulphate of quinidin in a concentrated form , diluted with from thirty to forty times its bulk of rectified spirit at a temperature from rather below 1 20 ?
F. , with the tincture of iodine , even in greater proportions , an optical salt of quinidin is produced , being the perfect analogue of the quinine salt .
It crystallizes from this strong spirituous solution as acicular long lanceolate prisms , the form of which appears to be a rhomboid having 30 ?
for the acute and 150 ?
as the obtuse angles ; but they are more frequently found with a termination like the blade of an ordinary bleeding-lancet .
These prisms have a frequent disposition to hemitropism , but in superposition , so that two plates may be often found overlying each other in a parallel position , wholly obstructing light in those portions where they cover each other , but transmitting an oliveor yellowish-green tint where separate .
Sometimes the terminal planes are rectangular .
This imbricated mode of crystallization is very peculiar ; and although the author has made thousands of experiments with quinine , yet he never saw anything similar to it ; for this alkaloid invariably crystallizes from dilute alcoholic solutions as the a-prism , obstructing light when the length is perpendicular to the plane of reflected light polarized in a vertical plane , -or from strong alcoholic solutions , where the spirit is about two-thirds the bulk , as F3-prisms , which obstruct light in the opposite plane , or , as the author has described it , when the planes of their length " lie in a plane parallel to that of the polarized beam with which they are examined .
" In the case of quinine , these two sets of prisms never occur together ; but if made by separate operations and then artificially mixed on the same slide , they present the optical characters of this new quinidin salt , viz. obstructing light when two long prisms overlie each other in a parallel position .
They are therefore aand f3-prisms crystallizing together from the same strong alcoholic solution .
The more frequent form in which this salt shows itself , however , is as the a-prism , from solutions in which the alcohol is vastly predominant over the water ; whereas with quinine , / 3-prisms always develope themselves under similar circumstances ( vide ' Proceedings , ' vol. vi .
) .
This new quinidin salt has a very great similarity in its optical property to the quinine salt .
Its reflected tint is a metallic blue-green , when in liquid or in contact with glass ; but after filtering , and when exposed on paper , it has a brownish-olive colour , and loses all appearance of metallic reflexion to the naked eye .
Its transmitted tint is , when polarized parallel to its axis , a brownish-yellow green , even in thin plates , but verging to brown in thicker .
Its " indicative body " colour is brownish red .
One great peculiarity attends upon this salt ; if it be permitted to remain in the acid mother-liquid , it disintegrates by gradual solution , and disappears , whilst , upon the side of the bottle , solid and large crystals slowly form , of a rhombohedric form , or having some of its modifications , the more frequent of which is that with replacement upon the short axis of the rhombohedron by triangular planes .
These crystals have a deep sienna-brown colour by transmission , and a dark steel-blue by reflexion , verging on purple ; they strongly polarize light , and differ materially from the garnet-red iodo-sulphate previously described , by the greater intensity of their optical properties .
When we attempt to purify the optical thin prisms by recrystallization from alcohol , the same modification appears to be produced ; but the crystals are acicular rhombic prisms ; the optical characters are the same , however , as those of the rhombohedral form .
The characters , therefore , by which this salt is known from quinine are many .
1st .
Its crystallizing as a-prisms , or as aand / 3-prisms from strong spirituous solutions .
2nd .
Its brownish-olive reflected tint as seen by the naked eye .
3rd .
Its deeper yellow and brownish-green transmitted tint .
4th .
The probable difference in the primary form of the laminated variety , being a very acute prism of a rhombic form , having 30 ?
as the acute , and 150 ?
as the obtuse angles .
5th .
The modification which it undergoes by resolution or recrystallization , and the formation of a salt more resembling the garnetred iodo-sulphate , but having strongly marked differential characters from this beautiful salt , viz. its strong tourmaline powers of absorption and its deeper colour , being nearly a brown-purple , and by its disposition to assume the rhombohedric form .
The author has not yet analysed this salt , but hopes ere long to accomplish this matter and communicate his results to the Royal Society ; but he ventures to hope that it will be found to contain 2 atoms sulphuric acid and 3 atoms iodine , like the analogous quinine and cinchonidin salts .
The author has also assured himself that there is an analogous class of salts produced by ethyle-quinine and ethyle-quinidin , but optically distinct from those of quinine and quinidin .
He has already produced three salts from ethyle-quinine , having optical characters different from any previously described .
1st .
A deep purple-red salt by transmitted light , in thicker plates or acicule quite impervious to light .
This salt occurs as very slender acicular prisms ; it has a brilliant metallic-green reflected tint , but very little double absorption .
2nd .
There is a foliaceous salt , having a plate-like form , a deep red or orange-red colour , transmitting an orange-yellow , having only slight optical powers , 3rd .
A salt having many of the characters of the new quinidin salt when first produced , viz. the optical characters and the a-form ; but on attempting to recrystallize it , the orange-red plates just described are alone produced .
The only salt yet produced from ethyle-quinidin is one very similar to the red salt described above , but it has only been very partially examined .
The iodide ethyle-quinidin is a very beautiful silky salt , less soluble than the iodide ethyle-quinine .
The author is not aware that it has yet been described .
It is readily made by mixing an alcoholic solution of quinidin with an ethereal solution of iodideethyle ; on repose , the new iodide ethyle-quinidin separates in long , slender , silky aciculee ; and further crops can be repeatedly produced by diluting the original solution with water until precipitation begins to follow ; on long repose , the iodide crystallizes and may be removed by filtration , and washed with dilute spirit .
Note .
In reference to the rotatory power of the cinchona alkaloids , the calculation of the molecular rotation gives an excellent plan of deciding on the purity of the alkaloid employed ; for if the absolute molecular rotation be obtained precisely identical with those given by other optical chemists , the purity may be inferred as proved .
But it is possible for a large quantity of two alkaloids to be present in solution , one dextro- , the other levo-gyrate , and in such proportions that the polariscope shall give no indication of the presence of either .
Thus a highly concentrated solution of the acid sulphate of quinine , marking a left-handed rotation of 57 ?
\ , was mixed with rather more than double its bulk of a similar solution of quinidin marking 24 ?
0 ?
The resultant solution gave no rotation at all , the one effect perfectly neutralizing the other .
In experimenting upon non-fluorescent solutions of quinine or quinidin in the polariscope , it was found that these solutions were still possessed of their original molecular rotation upon plane-polarized light , even undiminished , if care were taken not to dilute the fluid when destroying the fluorescence by the soluble chloride , &amp;c. , which was always done by adding it in the solid state .

