'ebruary 17 , 1859 .
Sir BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The Lord Bishop of London and the Lord Bishop of Ripon were admitted into the Society .
The following communications were read : I. " Statement of Facts relating to the Discovery of the Composition of Water by the Hon. H. CAVENDISH .
" In a Letter from J. J. BENNETT , Esq. , F.R.S. , to Sir B. C. BRODIE , Bart. , P.R.S. , dated February 12 , 1859 .
Received February 14 , 1859 .
Since the death of our late excellent and lamented friend Mr. Robert Brown , several appeals have been made to his executors to publish certain evidence presumed to have been in his possession relating to the much-agitated question of the priority of Cavendish or Watt in the discovery of the composition of water .
As the executor to whom Mr. Brown entrusted his papers , and having been for many years honoured with his entire confidence , I feel called upon to respond to these appeals , and I therefore request that you will kindly lay before a Meeting of the Royal Society the following brief statement on the subject .
The date and nature of Cavendish 's communication to Priestley have always been considered as essential elements in the determination of the question ; and it was the evidence which Mr. Brown possessed in regard to these particulars , which , in his estimation , " placed Cavendish 's claims as the discoverer of the composition of water beyond dispute .
" That evidence , however , was not derived from any unpublished document , but formed part of a section of Deluc 's " Idees sir la Meteorologie , " which although especially entitled , --- " necdotes relatives i la decouverte de l'Eau sous la form d'Air , " -appears entirely to have escaped the notice of those 64 643 who have advocated Cavendish 's claims .
It is the more conclusive as coming from Deluc , the " s ami zele ' " as he justly terms himself , of Watt , and who , in relation to this question , believed himself " a portee d'en connoltre toutes les circonstances .
" The testimony of Deluc is as follows : Verse la fin de l'annee 1782 j'allai a Birmingham , oI le Dr. Priestley s'etoit etabli depuis quelques annees .
I1 me communiqua alors , que M. Cavendish , d'apres un remarque de M. Warltire ; qui avoit toujours trouve de l'eau dans les vases ou il avoit brule un melange d'air inflammable et d'air atmosph &amp; rique ; s'etoit applique a decouvrir la source de cette eau , et qu'il avoit trouve , " qu'un melange d'air inflammable et d'air dephlogistique en proportion convenable , etant allume par l'etincelle electrique , se convertissoit tout entier en eau .
" Je fus frappe au plus haut degre de cette decouverte* , The italics and inverted commas are Deluc 's own .
In this communication made by Cavendish to Priestley the theory of the composition of water is clearly indicated .
The two gases ( known to have been hydrogen and oxygen ) were mixed together in due proportion , and by means of the electric spark were entirely converted into water .
Referring to one of Cavendish 's experiments , as recorded in his journal , Lord Jeffrey , the most candid and judicious of Watt 's advocates , has said : " if he [ Cavendish ] had even stated in the detail of it , that the airs were converted , or changed , or turned into water , it would probably have been enough to have secured to him the credit of this discovery , as well as to have given the scientific world the benefit of it , in the event of his death , before he could prevail on his modesty to claim it in public .
t " The evidence which this distinguished critic and judge regarded as sufficient to establish Cavendish 's claim is now afforded , not by a note in his private journal , but by the testimony of the zealous friend of Watt , who states that it was communicated to Priestley towards the end of the year 1782 , that is to say , several months before Watt drew his own conclusions from Priestley 's bungling repetition of Cavendish 's experiments .
It was , moreover , published to the world , auld suffered to remain uncontradicted , while 64all the parties were alive and in frequent intercourse with the author and with each other .
I have only further , in Mro Brown 's name also , to do an act of justice to the memory of Lavoisier , by relieving it from the obloquy which has rested upon it from his supposed persistence in unjustly claiming priority for himself .
The following extract from a Report to the Academy of Sciences on M. Seguin 's experiments , dated 28th August 1790 , and signed Lavoisier , Brisson , Meusnier , and Laplace , the last named being the reporter , will prove that Lavoisier was not unmindful of the appeal which had been addressed to him by Blagden some years previously , and that he distinctly resigned the priority of discovery to Cavendish:"M .
Macquer a observe dans son Dictionnaire de Chimie que la combustion des gaz hydrogene et oxygene produit un quantite d'eau sensible ; mais il n'a pas connu tout l'importance de cette observation , qu'il se contenta de presenter , sans en tirer aucune consequence .
M. Cavendish parolt avoir remarque le premier que pleau produite dans cette combustion est le resultat de la combinaison des deux gaz , et qu'elle est d'un poids dgal an leur .
Plusieurs experiences faites en grand et d'une maniere tres-precise , par MM .
Lavoisier , La Place , Monge , Meusnier , et par M. Lefevre de Gineau , ont confirine cette decouverte importante , sir laquelle il no doit maintenant rester aucun doute."-Annales de Chimie , tome 7 , pp. 258-9 .
JOHN J. BENNETT .
II .
" On the Influence of White Light , of the different Coloured IRays and of Darkness , on the Development , Growth , and Nutrition of Animnals .
" By HORACE DOBELL , M.D. , Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians , &amp;c. &amp;c. Communicated by JAMES PAGET , Esq. Received January 10 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author laid before the Society the particulars of a series of experiments , having for their object to discover what influence is exerted by ordinary light , by the different coloured rays , and by darkness on the development , grow , and nutrition of anim1als .

