Experiments on a Mineral Substance formerly supposed to be Zeolite ; with some Remarks on two Species of Uran-glimmer .
By the Rev. William Gregor .
Communicated by Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read July 4 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 331 .
] The mineral substance treated of in this paper , is similar to that of which Mr. Davy , some months ago , gave an account , under the title of Hydrargyllite or Wavellite .
That which is now described by Mr. Gregor is produced from a mine called Stenra Gwyn , in the county of Cornwall .
Two species of this substance , the author says , are found in the above-mentioned mine ; the first , and most common , consists of an assemblage of minute and delicate crystals , in radiated tufts , attached to quartz crystals .
These crystals are in general white and transparent ; sometimes , however , they have a yellowish hue .
They vary considerably in their size , but seldom exceed a quarter of an inch in length .
Among these crystals are frequently seen two kinds of crystalline laminae ; one of them being in the form of parallelopipedons , with truncated angles , and of a green colour ; the other forming an assemblage of square plates , varying in thickness , and the angles of which are not always coincident ; these are of a bright wax yellow .
This last kind is also found adhering to the sides of quartz crystals , in the cavities of granite .
The other species of the substance here treated of , consists of crystals closely compacted together in the form of mammillary protuberances , generally of the size of small peas , and forming a stratum about one eighth of an inch thick , upon quartz , in the cavities or fissures of compact granite .
The striae of these mammillhe diverge from a centre , like zeolite .
The detached crystals of the first species are easily reduced to powder .
Their specific gravity , at 56 ?
Fahr. , was found to be 2-22 .
The second , or more compact species , is sufficiently hard to scratch calcareous spar : its specific gravity , at the temperature of 550 , was 2-253 .
The crystals of the first species , when suddenly exposed to the action of the blowpipe , decrepitate ; if gradually exposed to its action , they grow opake , but show no signs of fusion , even under the strongest heat .
Both species , when exposed for some time to a red heat , experience a diminution in weight of about 30 per cent. Some other experiments upon these substances are related , and a very minute account of the mode in which they were analysed is given ; of this we must necessarily confine ourselves to give merely the results .
Fifty grains of the crystals of the first species yielded alumina 29-Agrs .
; silica , 3-+3 grs. ; oxide of iron , grs. ; lime , -3A grs. volatilized matter , 14-I{ grs. The sum total of these is ... ... ... ... . .
472 grs. Consequently the loss was ... ... ... ... 24grs .
50 p The silica and the lime , Mr. Gregor considers as essential to the composition of this mineral , as he has always discovered them , even in the purest specimens .
In order to examine the nature of the volatilized matter , the author submitted some of the crystals to distillation .
A fluid passed over into the receiver , and a white crust was formed in the arch and neck of the retort .
The fluid had an empyreumatic smell , very similar to that observed in the fluid distilled from the white crust that surrounds flint .
It changed litmus paper to a faint reddish hue .
A variety of experiments were made upon the white crust , from the results of which it appeared , that it consisted in part , at least , of an acid , which did not seem to be either the phosphoric or fluoric ; nor did its properties entirely agree with those of the oxalic acid , although many of them were similar to those of that acid .
A part of the forementioned crust , which firmly adhered to the neck of the retort , was found to contain a portion of lead ; this , Mr. Gregor ascribes to the action of the acid on the retort .
Some of the Barnstaple mineral was also tried , and was found likewise to produce the above-mentioned white crust .
Mr. Gregor now makes some remarks on the yellow and green crystals already mentioned as accompanying the mineral here treated of , which he says he at first considered as similar to the two species of Uranglimmer examined by Klaproth .
The specific gravity of the yellow crystals , at 450 Fahr. , was 2-19 .
Exposed to the blowpipe , they decrepitated violently .
They are taken up by phosphate of ammonia and soda without effervescence , and communicate a light emerald green colour to the fused globule .
By exposure to a red heat they become of a brassy colour , and lose nearly a third part of their weight .
Several other experiments upon them are related , but their scarcity has , M/ Ir .
Gregor says , precluded him from operating on a quantity sufficient for a regular analysis .
But he has detected in them oxide of lead , lime , and silica , which have not hitherto been considered as ingredients of Uran-glimmer .
The substance also , which in his experiments was held in solution by ammonia , had some peculiar properties which appeared to distinguish it from uranium .
The green crystals , the author says , do not differ from the yellow , except in containing a little of the oxide of copper .

