On the Polarization of Light by oblique transmission through all Bodies , whether crystallized or uncrystallized .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Edin .
and F.S.A. Edin .
In a Letter addressed to Taylor Comb , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read January 27 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 219 .
] In examining what changes were produced upon light transmitted through mica in the direction of that line which Dr. Brewster calls its oblique depolarizing axis , he observed some appearances indicating a partial polarization : but upon turning the mica round , so as to preserve the same obliquity of incidence , this effect was found not to depend on the position of the axis ; but to be greater or less , in proportion to the obliquity of incidence alone , and to be produced even by a plate of glass substituted for the mica , though not in so great a degree .
By transmitting the same pencil of light successively through fifteen plates of glass , at an angle of about 70 ?
, the whole of that which is transmitted is polarized ; so that its transmission through agate , its reflection from polished surfaces at a specific angle , or the kind of refraction it undergoes in its transmission through Iceland spar , depend upon the relative position of the planes of refraction .
If a second series of similar plates be presented to light thus polarized , it will also be totally transmitted if the plates be parallel to the former , but totally reflected if , with the same inclination , the planes of refraction be at right angles to each other .
By experiments made on the number of plates requisite for causing complete polarization at different angles of incidence , the number varied as the co-tangent of incidence .
The author next endeavoured to ascertain the difference that would be occasioned by using plates of greater refractive density ; and he found that a less angle of incidence was then sufficient for effecting complete polarization by the same number of plates : but the subjects of his experiments were not sufficiently different in refractive power for him to determine with precision their proportional effects .
Dr. Brewster observes , that the polarization effected by such a series of plates may be employed with advantage in examining those coloured rings produced by topaz , described in his former communication .
In consequence of the reflections that take place at each of the surfaces , the principal image seen through a number of such plates is always surrounded with a great number of faint images ; and when the inclination is very considerable , a nebulous image appears that is oppositely polarized , and has the same relation to the bright image as the author had before observed in agate .
When the coloured rings produced by topaz are viewed through a number of plates so inclined , the two halves of the rings appear completely different ; the colours of one set being complementary to those of the other .
When the angle of incidence is 54ยง 35 ' ( the angle at which Malus observed reflected light to be completely polarized ) , then the number of plates requisite for complete polarization of the transmitted beanm is 30 : and since , under these circumstances , the whole of the light that is not reflected at the first surface is transmitted through the whole series , the author observes , that transmission is not in this case a maximum at a perpendicular incidence , and that the law employed by Bouguer fails by reason of these newly-discovered properties of light , of which that distinguished philosopher was not aware .
The celebrated discovery of Malus , of the polarization of light by oblique reflection , and its connexion with the properties of doublyrefracting crystals , is perhaps the most important discovery that has been made in optics since that of the principle of the achromatic telescope ; but the author observes , that it does not furnish us with any information of the manner in which these crystals effect polarization , and that the present discovery of polarization by oblique refraction supplies the connecting link between these two classes of facts , and holds out a prospect of a direct explanation of the leading phenomena of double refraction .
Should the present paper meet with the approbation of the Society , Dr. Brewster promises a further communication of experiments on the polarization of light by reflection , in which he designs to show that the law observed by Malus is not general , and that the principle has been completely overlooked by him ; as it depends on the proportion which the quantity of light reflected bears to that which is transmitted when incident at the polarizing angle .
When light is incident upon water at the polarizing angle , he remarks that only -rT4A-is reflected ; that even from glass only -r-is reflected ; but when realgar , diamond , or chromate of lead are employed , then at the polarizing angle these bodies reflect as much as one half of the light , and consequently have not power to polarize all that they reflect .

