306 Mr. J. B. Farmer .
[ Jan. 31 , January 31 , 1889 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Paper was read : \#151 ; I. il On Isoetes lacustvis , Linn. By J. Bretland Farmer , B.A. , F.L.S. Communicated by Professor S. H. Vines , F.R.S. Received January 22 , 1889 .
The genus Isoetes has been an object of interest to botanists ever since Hofmeister 's brilliant researches on the vascular cryptogams , but the accounts given by the different observers on the development and organogeny of the sporophyte are so conflicting , and moreover our knowledge of the sexual generation is so limited , that a renewed investigation of the whole subject seems desirable .
In the present communication I propose to summarise , as briefly as possible , the more important of my own observations on one species , I. to which plant my attention has been directed for some time past .
1 intend to deal here only with the germination of the macrospore , and to reserve details of minor significance , as well as all account of tM sporophyte , for treatment in a future paper , as this part of the subject requires critical discussion .
The shape of each macrospore is , as is well known , that of a tetrahedron with somewhat rounded sides , and the protoplasmic contents are enclosed in a number of coats which , in mature specimens , are differentiated into six layers .
Peripherally is the episporium , a colourless , glassy , and brittle layer , whose surface is beset with numerous irregular prominences .
The episporium , which is derived from the epiplasm of the sporangium , stains with haematoxylin , though only to a slight extent .
Within this outer layer is the exosporium , consisting of three brown cuticularised layers , but of which the two outer ones are frequently not easily distinguishable as separate coats .
The W ?
innermost membranes of all , are cellulose in character , and form tit endosporium .
The protoplasm which is contained in the spore includes a large quantity of reserve material , consisting of starch and oil , the latter being , however , eliminated during the process of soaking in turpentine , to which the spores are subjected previously to their being On Isoetee lacustris , embedded in paraffin .
A number of sections through each spore were obtained by means of the Cambridge rocking microtome , and were arranged in series , thus permitting of an examination of the internal structure of the spores .
The protoplasm , which is remarkably granular , is of a spongy texture ( probably due to the extraction of the oil ) , and contains a nucleus of very large size , in which bodies resembling nucleoli were in some cases detected .
The nucleus is sharply marked off from the cytoplasm by a membrane , but of course it must be borne in mind that this feature may be caused in part by the methods used in embedding .
When spores are examined in this stage , the protoplasm stains but slightly with hsematoxvlin , and the tint is inclined to red , and even the nucleus is not deeply coloured .
In somewhat older spores , at the period immediately preceding germination , the whole protoplasm stains far more readily and deeply in a given time , but a nucleus is no longer differentiated by the hsematoxylin , and the colour now produced is of a deep blue .
As I have frequently had spores of different ages on the same slide , all of which were subjected to exactly similar treatment , this difference in colour may probably be taken to indicate an actual diffusion of the substance of the nucleus through the cytoplasm , since the change is always confined to spores in the condition referred to .
This view receives some confirmation from the circumstances attending the formation of the pro thallium , now to be described .
The first indication of cell-division occurs in a somewhat peculiar manner , but its significance is rendered clear by what takes place subsequently .
Before entering upon a description of what actually happens , it may be well , in order to avoid possible misconstruction , to state expressly the opinion that the characters presented are made visible only by the action of the means necessarily employed in embedding , but this does not vitiate the conclusion that they may be taken as indications of internal changes which actually occur in the protoplasm .
In spores in which cell formation is about to commence , the deeply stained protoplasm is seen to be traversed by a few " cracks , " which divide the contents of the spore into large isolated masses .
At this period there is nothing to point to the existence of a membrane , except the granular structure which is apparent on the surface of the cracks , but at a subsequent stage in the development , one of the sur-aces *s seen to be bounded by a membrane of extreme tenuity .
When rst formed it can only be distinguished in favourable places , but it rapidly grows in thickness , and forms a limiting surface between the wo protoplasmic masses .
From the mode of its formation it can are ^ arise otherwise than by the conversion of a layer already th68611^ protoplasm directly into cellulose , and it appears to be ' ^*is substance arranged in a definite plate-like manner i ^ determines the splitting referred to .
The first membrane cuts On Isoetes lacustris , Linn. I Jan. 3i ; the spore into an apical and a basal portion , and while the latter for some time undergoes no further change , the apical cell is divided very rapidly into a number of cells , whose arrangement can still be followed even in quite old prothallia .
When the first primary cells are formed , the nuclei are again distinguishable on staining with hsematoxylin , but they are of exceedingly small dimensions , and with this change the staining capacity of the protoplasm becomes less marked .
Divisions in all planes proceed very rapidly in the upper ( apical ) portion of the prothallium , and the rudiments of the arche-gonia are laid down much as in the Marattiaceee .
Periclinal division of single superficial cells into two takes place , the upper of which gives rise to the neck , and by repeated division forms four stories , each story being again divided crosswise into four cells arranged as quad-rants of a cylinder .
The lower cells form the central series , in which a neck canal cell is cutoff , and then a ventral canal cell , from the oosphere .
The canal cells then thrust themselves between the neck cells , and cause a distortion in the two lower stories , which may be so great as even to render them difficult of recognition .
Whilst these changes have been taking place in the upper ( apical ) of the two primary cells , the lower ( basal ) one is dividing , but comparatively slowly , and it is easily distinguishable in that the cells arising from it remain of a large size as compared with those formed in the upper part of the prothallium .
In spite of repeated search through a great number of preparations , it has not been found possible hitherto to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion as to the mode of cell-division which prevails in the secondary stage , for no karyokinetic figures could be detected ; nevertheless , it is highly probable that the process does not differ in any important respect from that exhibited by other plants , and the arrangement of the nuclei about the walls of recently formed cells makes this supposition almost a certainty .
I have purposely omitted any reference to the researches of other observers in the present paper , and it was not my object to attempt a complete account of my own work , which is still in progress , hut the results detailed above appeared of sufficient interest to justify the appearance of this note .

