A Note on the Protozoa from Sick Soils .
393 with the diet .
It is interesting to note , however , that this tissue has a higher cholesterol-content than any we have examined , with the exception of brain .
In six animals the average total free and combined cholesterol is 0*5022 per cent. , the free cholesterol 0*4493 per cent. , and ester cholesterol 0*0529 .
The ester cholesterol was v.ery variable and , in two cases , nil .
We take this opportunity of expressing our thanks to the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society for assistance in carrying out this work .
A Note on the Protozoa from Sick , with some Account of the Life-Cycle of a Flagellate Monad .
By C. H. Martin , M.A. , late Demonstrator in Zoology at Glasgow University and at the Imperial College of Science .
( Communicated by Prof. E. A. Minchin , F.R.S. Received May 10 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1912 .
) [ Plate 10 .
] Of recent years a great deal of attention has been attracted to the subject of sick soils , i.e. soils of which the produce has fallen off without the decrease being definitely attributable to the lack of plant-food in the soil .
In this preliminary note I should like to deal shortly with some aspects of this question from a zoological point of view , and also to describe the life-cycle of a flagellate monad which happened to be one of the organisms from this source , of which I have succeeded in obtaining pure animal cultures .
I hope to describe cultures of this and other forms in greater detail in a forthcoming paper .
The literature on this subject from a botanical and chemical standpoint will be found in a paper by Dr. Russel and Dr. Hutchison " On the Effect of Partial Sterilisation of Soil on the Production of Plant-Food , " * and it is particularly to this work that we owe the insistence on a hypothesis which is full of interest to the zoologist , namely , that the activity of protozoa in these soils may in many cases be a factor in bringing about soil-sickness .
It is obvious that one of the first steps in the discussion of this problem must be the elucidation of the normal protozoan population of a soil .
* 'Journal of Agricultural Science , ' 1909 , vol. 3 , Part II .
Mr. C. H. Martin .
[ May 10 , It must , I think , be clear that on the surface of ordinary soils practically any form of protozoan may be found either in the encysted or in the active condition .
If small surface pools are formed on well-manured soil it is obvious that a large number of protozoa , including the larger ciliates , may thrive .
The question of* the ciliates has already been dealt with by Mr. Goodey , * who was , as far as I am aware , the first to describe some of the protozoa of sick soil .
But it seemed to me that , in spite of his paper , much remained to be done , particularly in connection with the smaller amoebae and the flagellates , which must , I believe , play the most important rdle in the causation of this phenomenon .
It seems probable a priori that the most common limiting factor as regards the activity of protozoa in the soil is the average quantity of water .
It is generally assumed that in a fairly dry soil\#151 ; that is , a soil that feels quite dry to the touch\#151 ; there is 20 per cent , of water by volume ; but as this water is largely present in the soil as a surface-film on the small soil particles , it is evident that the protozoa capable of leading a trophic life under these conditions must be either of a very small size or else must have developed some particular protective mechanism against desiccation .
It seems to me that there are two possibilities for a protozoon that is going to do any marked harm in a soil during a year ( on the assumption that Russel and Hutchison 's hypothesis that soil-sickness is due to the ingestion of soil-bacteria by protozoa)\#151 ; either the protozoon must be satisfied with a very low percentage of water in the soil during its trophic life , or else it must have a capacity of readily encysting , together with the capacity of reproducing with enormous rapidity as soon as the soil becomes saturated with the necessary amount of moisture .
Tt is quite possible that all the harmful protozoa will be found to possess both the above faculties to a certain degree\#151 ; probably coupled , if they are to make the best use of the water of the surface-film , with a small size .
In the case , however , of the soils of sewage farms , which are frequently saturated with water , any of the protozoa , even the larger ciliates , would be capable of acting with a certain amount of efficiency as a check upon bacterial life .
In order to limit the problem , I decided to examine a soil which , though probably never very dry , was yet never in the waterlogged condition of the soil on a sewage farm .
Dr. Russel was kind enough to send me samples of sick soils from three different sources , and of these I have devoted most of my attention to the sample derived from a sick tomato bed .
For the purpose of separation of the organisms I used various types of agar-plate , and as much still remains to be done from the cultural point of view , I have decided to publish the full details of my methods in the later paper .
It * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , B , vol. 84 , p. 165 .
1912 .
] A Note on the Protozoa from Sick Soils .
must , however , be evident that the attempt to solve the problem of how far any protozoon is really doing damage under the normal soil conditions from a study of the forms grown on agar-plates must be a very difficult and dangerous one .
It is more than probable that the sample of population I cultivated under all the present methods may not by any means be a fair f representation of the population of the given soil .
On the other hand , it is , i I think , important to observe that one finds that each small sample of a given !
soil for each culture-condition has given rise to a fairly constant specific fauna , whereas samples on other soils under these conditions have also given rise to : constant but quite distinct faunas .
If these facts are taken into consideration , it seems hard to believe that all these forms are a purely negligible factor in the question of soil-sickness , since it is important to note that many of these forms are new and\#151 ; a point of difference from the ciliates\#151 ; have never previously been found in fresh-water pools or infusions .
It is , therefore , unlikely that all these organisms are present in the soil as cysts , because they must presumably lead a trophic life somewhere , and it seems probable that their trophic activity is a cause of soil-sickness .
On the other hand , it is quite possible that the form or forms which are most dangerous in cases of soil-sickness may not up to the present have survived under the conditions of plate-cultures .
I do not think that this view is probable , but the question can , of course , only be decided by parallel cultures of three kinds : ( 1 ) Plants grown on the sterilised soil ; ( 2 ) plants grown on the sterilised soil to which pure cultures of the various protozoa , with the bacteria on which they feed , have been added ; and ( 3 ) plants grown on the sterilised soil to which cultures of the protozoa without the bacteria have been added .
As regards methods of preparation , wet cover-slip smears were solely used .
In this connection a device suggested to me by Mr. Jamieson , of the Natural History Department , Glasgow University , has proved extremely useful .
It is obvious that with a large number of cultures on one 's hands a number of smears must be fixed which cannot be immediately stained .
The smears in these cases after fixation were stacked in tubes in 70-per-cent , alchol .
It was found , however , in some cases , after the smears had been some time in the tubes , that in the case of thin smears it was extraordinarily hard to tell the right from the wrong side of the cover-slip .
I therefore got some oblong cover-slips of which one corner was cut off , made by Messrs. Frazer , of Edinburgh .
It will , I think , be obvious that , if one makes up one 's mind to always have the smear on the lower surface of the cover-slip when the top right-hand corner is cut , no mistake of this kind can possibly arise .
I should like to take this opportunity of thanking Dr. Russel for his kindness in sending me samples of soil , and for much advice , and also VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; B. 2 E Mr. C. H. Martin .
[ May 10 , Prof. Minchin for allowing me to write up these notes in his laboratory at the Lister Institute .
Of the forms which I cultivated from the sick tomato-soil a rough list will be found at the end of the paper .
In this note I wish to describe a flagellate which passes through its life-cycle in my cultures , terminating in the formation of a zygote-cyst , * with great regularity .
I do not propose to enter into the question of the nomenclature of this form in any detail here .
It appears to me to be identical with the flagellate figured by Stein as Cercomonas termo , which he identifies with Monas termo of Ehrenberg , and which is therefore presumably identical with the Oikomonas termo of Btitschli .
The trophic form of this organism is a roughly spherical animal , provided at its physiologically anterior end with a single , rather short , thick flagellum ( Plate 10 , fig. 1 ) .
The size of the animal may be somewhat variable .
In young cultures , in which no gametes occur , the active forms seem to measure about 4*5/ t , whereas in the older cultures larger forms are met with .
The body , particularly at its posterior end , contains large rounded vacuoles .
These vacuoles may disappear , and are probably mostly food-vacuoles , and I cannot find any evidence for the existence of a true contractile vacuole .
In life , the posterior end of the body may undergo amoeboid movement , and , more particularly in actively swimming forms , the body may assume a rather more elongated shape than in the resting form ( fig. 2 ) .
The body is often found crowded with ingested bacteria , and a number of small granules which appear to stain reddish in neutral red .
In life , a nucleus , with a fairly large caryosome , can be distinguished clearly .
In stained forms the flagellum can be seen to arise from quite a large blepharoplast , which stains vividly in iron-haematoxylin .
The nucleus in the stained preparations is large and vesicular .
Most of the chromatin appears to be contained in the caryosome , but a certain amount seems to be present on the nuclear wall ( fig. 1 ) .
The division in this monad seems to be initiated by the division of the blepharoplast ( fig , 3 ) , but this is quickly followed , or possibly in some cases preceded , by the splitting of the flagella .
Up to the present I have found no evidence for the outgtowth of new flagella in the dividing forms of this animal .
The nucleus up to this stage presents its characteristic appearance of a dark caryosome lying in a large nuclear space .
It quickly becomes much darker , and the whole space is crowded with relatively large * It is unfortunately impossible at present to prove conclusively that this process is-not an autogamy , since up to the present I have not carried cn continuous observations-on conjugating forms in life .
1912 .
] A Note on the Protozoa from Sick Soils .
397 S chromatin granules ( fig. 4 ) .
A curious feature in this division is the apparent increase in the amount of chromatin in the nucleus during the early stages of division , an increase which it seems difficult to account for when one considers the amount of chromatin in the caryosome and on the wall of the resting nucleus ( fig. 5 ) .
One of the division-products of the blepharoplast , with its flagellum , now passes around the nucleus , being still connected with the other blepharoplast by a faintly staining strand , which seems to have more affinity for eosin than for chromatin stains ( vide figs. 5 and 6 ) .
The chromatin granules are now massed in an irregular oval body on the strand connecting the two blepharoplasts , as is shown in figs. 5 and 6 .
The chromatin masses then appear to stream in an irregular manner towards either blepharoplast .
There they become collected into two crescent-shaped masses , in the convexity of each of which a blepharoplast lies ( fig. 7 ) .
At the same time the body of the flagellate becomes much elongated in the axis of the line joining the two blepharoplasts .
About this stage there seems to be mysterious diminution in the amount of chromatin comparable to the increase which was noted in the early stages of division .
The body of the flagellate now becomes constricted ( fig. 8 ) and the division-products separate ( fig. 9 ) .
It seems probable , from the relative frequency with which the stages are met on the stained films , that the early stages of division are much slower than the later .
Before proceeding to a description of the process of encystation in this flagellate , I should like to draw attention to some features in the behaviour of the cultures with regard to the life-cycle of this animal .
In the first place , the appearance of an encystation-epidemic in any particular culture seems to be primarily due to the amount of moisture on the culture-plate .
I have , on several occasions , started series of three parallel cultures : ( a ) rather drv , ( 6 ) fairly moist , and ( c ) quite moist .
In all three the organisms would do well at a temperature of about 18 ' C. , with the result that at the end of the third day the fixed films of any culture would show a large number of division-figures .
An encystation-epidemic would , however , set in in ( a ) at the end of a week , in ( \amp ; ) at the end of about 12 days , whereas cultures of the type of ( c ) have been kept over two months without the appearance of encystation .
What the ultimate factor in this appearance of encystation-epidemics in drying cultures may be I should not at present care to hazard an opinion .
Possibly it may be simply a direct osmotic effect upon the animal , possibly it Daay introduce changes in the bacterial flora of the plate resulting in a diminution of the appropriate food-supply of the animal , or possibly it may 2 s 2 398 Mr. C. H. Martin .
[ May 10 initiate the formation of some substance by the bacteria toxic to the flagellate and to which it reacts by encystation .
But it is evidently useless attempting to analyse the physiology of this phenomenon without a great deal more experimental evidence than I have at present collected .
I will only draw attention to one other feature in the physiology of these cultures before proceeding with my account of the morphological features presented in the formation of the zygote-cyst .
On several occasions I have attempted to make sub-cultures of this flagellate from flourishing cultures in which few or no cysts were present .
These cultures always failed .
Whether this failure was primarily due to a zoological or a bacteriological factor I am at present unable to say , but sub-cultures made from the same primary cultures at a later stage when the cysts had been formed were uniformly successful .
The conjugation in this flagellate is probably isogamous , and there seems to be a certain amount of evidence tending to show that the gametes are characterised by a slightly larger size of body and by a slightly smaller nucleus containing a relatively smaller caryosome .
The gametes usually contain quantities of ingested bacteria , and it would seem that this pronounced trophic activity constantly precedes conjugation .
The gametes seem to come into contact laterally , and the zygote formed by their fusion swims around actively for some time by means of its two flagella ( figs. 10 and 11 ) , which seem to be always inserted near the same pole .
The zygote now grows in size , the growth appearing to be largely due to the formation of a large vacuole in the posterior portion of the body .
At a slightly later stage this vacuole is found to be occupied by a solid round body , which I am inclined to regard as a reserve-body ( figs. 13 , 14 ) .
The flagella now disappear , and I have not yet succeeded in tracing the fate of the blepharo-plasts in the later stages of the zygote .
The zygote now secretes a wall , and presents a very characteristic appearance with its two nuclei closely applied to the anterior wall of the large vacuole containing the reserve-body .
The reserve-body is best shown in early cysts stained with iron-hsematoxylin , which stains it a faint yellowish colour .
The ripe cysts can only be stained with great difficulty with acid haematoxylin .
In these permanent preparations the reserve-body cannot be seen ( figs. 15 , 16 ) .
The nuclei apparently now undergo some process of reduction division , as is shown in figs. 13 and 14 .
But 11 hope to return to this point in my final paper .
The ripe zygote-cyst ( vide fig. 16 ) contains , a single nucleus , the result of the fusion of the nuclei of the two gametes .
To the question of some of the peculiar features displayed \lt ; by this life-cycle , and the light which they may throw on the affinities of this flagellate , I hope to return in my forthcoming paper .
1912 .
] A Note on the Protozoa from Sick Soils .
399 In addition to these monads I have succeeded in obtaining pure animal cultures of a number of other forms .
Amongst these some have been previously described by other workers , and I give a short list of the forms that I have up to the present identified :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Chlamydophrys stercorea ; ( 2 ) Amoeba ( 3 ) Amoeba ( 4 ) Amoeba sp. ?
( 5 ) Amoeba sp. ?
( 6 ) Copromonas ; ( 7 ) Bodo ?
( 8 ) Prowazekia sp. ?
( 9 ) Astasia sp. ?
To some of these forms I hope to return in my later paper , but I should like to point out that I have now worked for over a year with cultures of a form which seems to me absolutely identical with Chlamydophrys , and have entirely failed to find any indication in confirmation of Schaudinn 's account of the sexual stages of this form .
This is the more difficult to understand as the account and the figures which he has published of the asexual stages are in complete accord with those I find in my cultures .
Schaudinn , as will be remembered , stated* that in all his cultures , at the end of a few days , a formation of flagellate gametes set in , which after an isogamous conjugation gave rise to small zygote-cysts .
These cysts , according to his account , could only be further cultured after the passage through the gut of some vertebrate .
My cultures , under a large number of different conditions , have uniformly ended in a cyst formation without any sexual process , and these cysts could always be readily cultured on all fresh media , and would not pass in a living condition through the gut of a fowl .
I have found flagellates in some of my early cultures , but I hope to be able to show in my forthcoming paper that these are parasites , and have no connection with the life-cycle of EXPLANATION OF PLATE .
All the figures were drawn with a camera lucida under Zeiss comp .
oc .
18 and 1'5 apochr .
objective .
All the figures except 1 , 2 , 11 , and 12 were drawn at table level .
1 .
Normal round form of Monas termo .
2 .
Active elongate form .
3 .
Early stage of division ; the flagella and blepharoplasts have divided .
4 .
Slightly later stage of division ; the blepharoplasts with their attached flagella are beginning to separate , and the nucleus is filled with a number of spherical masses of chromatin .
5 .
The blepharoplasts with their attached flagella have moved apart so that the enlarged nucleus filled with the chromatin-spheres lies between them .
The blepharoplasts are still united by a thread which stains faintly with eosin .
* " Untersuchungen fiber die Fortpflanzung einiger Rhizopoden , " 'Arb .
a. d. kais .
Gesundheitsamt , ' 1903 , vol. 19 , p. 547 .
400 Dr. E. W. A. Walker .
[ May 16 , 6 .
Later stage of division ; the chromatin-spheres are massed on the thread joining the blepharoplasts .
7 .
The chromatin-masses have passed to either pole of the dividing monad ; the line joining the blepharoplasts still persists .
8 .
Division is almost complete , and the line between the blepharoplasts has disappeared .
9 . .
One of the products of a recent division ; the nucleus has not yet been reconstructed .
10 .
Early stage of conjugation .
11 .
Active zygote-stage showing the approximation of the blepharoplasts and large vacuoles .
12 .
Early stage of encystation of the zygote ; the wall at this stage is quite soft and stains with eosin .
13 .
Unripe cyst , showing reserve-body .
Iron-hsematoxylin preparation .
14 .
Unripe cyst , showing possibly reduction-division on the part of the nuclei .
15 .
Almost ripe zygote cyst , with elongated synkaryon .
Hsemalum-preparation ; does not show reserve-body .
16 .
Ripe cyst , with round synkaryon .
Hsemalum-preparation ; does not show reservebody .
Further Observations on the Variability of Streptococci in Relation to Certain Fermentation Tests , together with some Considerations Bearing on its Possible Meaning .
By E. W. Ainley Walker , M.A. , D.M. , Fellow and Tutor of University College , and Lecturer in Pathology in the University of Oxford .
( Communicated by Prof. Gotch , F.R.S. Received May 16 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1912 .
) ( From the Department of Pathology , University of Oxford .
) The fermentation tests devised by Mr. H. Gordon ( 1905 , 1 ) were employed by him and by a number of subsequent observers as a means of differentiating streptococci into definite varieties .
This application of the tests necessarily presupposes the stability of the reactions yielded by any given strain of streptococci in the test media .
But after a prolonged examination of a number of different strains of streptococci I was unable to confirm this primary requirement .
Consequently , I ventured to call in question the supposed constancy of the tests ( 1910,2 ; 1911 , 3 ) .
A considerable mass of evidence of the variability of streptococci under cultivation in respect of their reactions in " Gordon 's media " was submitted .
The observations recorded made it clear that the Martin .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. 13.Vol.85 E Wilson , Cambridge-

