XXIII .
" C On the Phenomenon of Relief of the Image formed on the Ground Glass of the Camera Obscura .
" By A. CLAUDET , Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1857 .
( , Abstract .
) The author having observed that the image formed on the ground glass of the camera obscura appears as much in relief as the natural object when seen with the two eyes , has endeavoured to discover the cause of that phenomenon , and his experiments and researches have disclosed the singular and unexpected fact , that although only one image seems depicted on the ground glass , still each eye perceives a different image ; that in reality there exist on the ground glass two images , the one visible only to the right eye , and the other visible only to the left eye .
That the image seen by the right eye is the representation of the object refracted by the left side of the lens , and the image seen by the left eye is the representation of the object refracted by the right side of the lens .
Consequently these two images presenting two different perspectives , the * Added August 1 .
result is a stereoscopic perception , as when we look through the stereoscope at two images of different perspectives .
It appears that all the different images refracted separately by every part of the lens , are each only visible on the line of their refraction when it corresponds with the optic axis , so that while we examine the image on the ground glass , if we move the head we lose the perception of all the rays which are not corresponding with the optic axes , and have only the perception of those which , according to the position of the eyes , gradually happen to coincide with the optic axes .
Consequently when we look on the ground glass perfectly in the middle , the two eyes being equally distant from the centre , the right eye sees only the rays refracted from the left of the lens , and the left eye only those refracted from the right of the lens .
If we move the head horizontally , as soon as we have deviated about 6 ?
from the centre on the right or on the left , in the first position the right eye sees no image , and the left eye sees the image which before was seen by the right eye ; in the second position the inverse takes place , and of course in both cases there cannot exist any stereoscopic illusion .
When we examine on the ground glass the image of a solid produced by the whole aperture of the lens , if we have taken the focus on the nearest point of the solid , we remark , in looking with the two eyes , that the image is stereoscopic , and as soon as we shut one eye the illusion of relief disappears instantly .
The stereoscopic effect is beautifully brought out by the image of a group of trees ; and when experimenting in an operating room , it is rendered quite conspicuous if we take the image of an object having several planes very distinct , such as thefocimeter , which the author has described in a former memoir ( see Phil. Mag. for June 1851 ) .
If without altering the focus we examine the same image with the pseudoscope , the effect is pseudoscopic .
But if the focus has been set on the most distant plane of the focimeter , the effect is pseudoscopic , and it becomes stereoscopic in looking with the pseudoscope .
The image loses its relief when it is produced only by the centre of the lens .
The stereoscopic and pseudoscopic effects are therefore as much less apparent as the aperture of the lens has been more reduced , and they are the more evident if the image is produced by two apertures on both extremities of the horizontal diameter of the lens .
This mode of conducting the experiments presents the most decided manifestation of the whole phenomenon .
But it must be remarked , that if the image is received on a transparent paper instead of ground glass , it does not in any case present the least illusion of relief .
The surface of the paper has the property of preserving to both eyes the same intensity of image from whatever direction the rays are refracted on that surface , and at whatever angle the eyes recede from the centre to examine the image .
In fact , all the various images refracted through every part of the lens and coinciding on the surface of the paper , are visible at whatever angle they are examined .
The reason of this difference between the effect of the ground glass and that of the paper is , that through the surface of the ground glass , composed of innumerable molecules of the greatest transparency , only deprived of their original parallelism by the operation of grinding , but acting as lenses or prisms disposed at all kinds of angles , the rays refracted by the various parts of the lens continue their course in straight lines in passing through these transparent molecules , and are visible only when they coincide with the optic axes , being invisible in all other directions ; that , in short , they are not stopped by the surface of the ground glass ; while the paper being perfectly opaque , stops all the rays on their passage , by which the image of the object remains fixed on the surface .
Each molecule of the paper becoming luminous , sends new rays in all directions ; and from whatever direction we look on the paper , we always perceive at once all the images superposed , so that each eye seeing the two perspectives mingled , the process of convergence according to the horizontal distances of the same points of the various planes , cannot have its play , and no stereoscopic effect can take place , as it is the case with the ground glass , which presents to each eye an image of a different perspective .
The author explains that he has ascertained these facts by several experiments , the most decisive of which consists in placing before one of the marginal openings of the lens a blue glass , and a yellow glass before the other .
The object of these coloured glasses is to give on the ground glass two images , each of the colour of the glass through which it is refracted .
The result is two images , superposed on the ground glass , one yellow and the other blue , forming only one image of a grey tint , being the mixture of yellow and blue , when we look with the two eyes at an equal distance from the centre .
But when shutting alternately , now the right eye and then the left eye , in the first case the image appears yellow , and in the second it appears blue .
If while looking with the two eyes ( the opening on the right of the lens being covered with the yellow glass , and the opening on the left with the blue glass ) we move the head on the right of about 6 ?
, the mixture of the two colours disappears , and the image retains only the blue colour ; on the other hand , if after having resumed the middle position , which shows again the mixture of the two colours , we move the head on the left of 6 ?
, the mixture disappears again , and the image retains only the yellow colour .
This proves evidently that each eye sees only the rays which , when after having been refracted by any part of the lens , and continuing their course in a direct line through the ground glass , coincide with the optic axes , while all the other rays are invisible .
The consideration of these singular facts has led the author to think that it would be possible to construct a new stereoscope , in which the two eyes looking at a single image could see it in perfect relief , such a single image being composed of two images , of different perspectives superposed , one visible only to the right eye and the other to the left .
This would be easily done by refracting a stereoscopic slide on a ground glass , through two semi-lenses separated enough to make the right picture of the slide coincide with the left picture at the focus of the semi-lenses .
The whole arrangement may be easily understood ; we have only to suppose that we look through a ground glass placed before an ordinary stereoscope at the distance of the focus of its semi-lenses , the slide being strongly lighted , and the eye seeing no other light than that of the picture on the ground glass .
The whole being nothing more than a camera having had its lens cut in two parts , and the two halves sufficiently separated to produce at the focus the coincidence of the two opposite sides of the stereoscopic slide placed before the camera .

