]\gt ; values , the equation becomes ; , this is Writing herein ( an arbitrary constant ) we have ' ' and the equation becomes ; , this is which is satisfied by or an arbitrary constant .
Substituting for their values , this is that is , ) , or , what is the same thing , , where the ratios are arbitrary .
III .
" " The Proteids of Selum.\ldquo ; By W. D. HALLIBURTON , M.B. , B.Sc. , Sharpey Physiological Scholar .
Communicated by Professor SCHA , F.R.S. ( From the Physiological Laboratory , University Collcge , London .
) Received May 28 , 1884 .
( Preliminary Notice .
) The investigation of which this paper gives a brief summary relates to serum-albumin rather than to serum-globulin , and the experiments may be arranged in two , those relating to heat-coagulation ; and secondly , those relating to the action of tain salts upon the proteids of blood-serum .
The apparatus used for the determination of the temperature of the heat-coagulation of proteids was not that which has been usually employed for the purpose , and which consists of two beakers containing water , one within the other , and heated gradnally over a sand1884 .
] The Proteids of Serum .
1 ; the substance under ation being placed in a test-tube conta , ined within the inner beaker .
* The chief objection to method is that the rise of temperature in wat , er iu the beakels place with extreme slowness , so bhat changes are apt to in the proteid during experiment .
To meet this difficulty an apparatus was devised by Professor Schafe ] , which was found to be extremely easy to use , and of which , the great advantage consists in the readiness with which a constant temperatul.e is maintained considerable time .
It may be briefly described thus : the liquid of which one wishes to determine the temperature of coagulation is placed in a test-tube in sufficient quantity to cove ] the bulb of a thel.mometer put into it ; the test-tube is placed in the neck of a flask containing water ; this water is kept at the desired tempel.ature by the following means .
It is in the first place kept constantly running , ente by one tube and leaving the flask by another tube inserted as a -piece in the upper part of the neck .
The watel is warmed by passing it ' coil of tub contained in a vessel in which water is kept constantly boiling .
By regulating the rate at which the water flows this apparatus the desired is maintained .
The temperature of coagulation of serum-globulin is stated to be C. , and that of -albumin as C. But it was found that aftel heating serum to the higher of these two temperatures , and filtering off the coagulum , that the filtrate still contained a amount of proteid , which coagulated at a higher than C. A method of fractional ulation was therefore adopted .
A specimen of serum was taken , and heated until a flocculent precipitate appeared ; this was filtered off , and the filtrate again heated until another deposit took place ; this was repeated until the filtrate gave no evidence of the esence of proteid .
In order to obtain these precipitates it was necessary to render the liquid faintly acid ; if this is not will not coagulate .
It is also necessary to render faintly acid each filtrate , as after the separation from it of a , a faintly acid liquid becomes , or faintly alkaline .
Acetic acid was the acid used for this ptlrpose in most instances .
By this means it was found that the of can be differentiated into three diifel'ent proteids , which coagnlate at the temperatures of C. , C. , and C. These tempel.atures vary within certain limits , the presence of excess of certain salts to be afterwards noted raising or lowering the somewhat ; and it is found that the amount of acid present has a very marked effect * Gamgee 's Chcmistry p. 15 .
examined , , the ox , sheep , horse , dog , rabbit , pig , cat , monkey , man .
The plasma of two of these animals , , the dog and monkey , were also examined , and gave confirmatory results .
The experiments relating to the plasma and serum of the dog will now be detailed at greater length , as illustration of the method used .
1 .
A portion of plasma , prevented from coagulating by the addition of sodium sulphate , was rendered faintly acid , and at the following points coaguIation occurred : \mdash ; C. White flocculent precipitate ; filtered off ; filtrate faintly alkaline ; it was rendered faintly acid , and heated to\mdash ; C. , when a dense flocculent precipitats occurred .
was filtered off ; the filtrate , alkaline , was rendered acid , and heated to\mdash ; C. , when a small amount of a finely divided precipitate occurred ; from the filtrate , after this always rendered faintOy acid , coagula separated at\mdash ; C. and\mdash ; C. After filtering off this last precipitate , the filtrate was found to be free from proteid .
2 .
A portion of plasma was saturated with powdered magnesium sulphate ; a precipitate was so obtained which Hammarsten has shown to consist of globulin .
This was filtered off , and the filtrate then treated as the original plasma ; at the points C. , C. , and C. , white flocculenb precipitates were found to occur .
The precipitate caused by magnesium sulphate was washed with saturated solution of magnesium sulphate , and then dissolved by adding distilled water .
An opalescent solution was so obtained , and by the process of fractional heat-coagulation precipitates found to occur at and ; the filtrate aftel the latter co1ttaining no proteid .
3 .
After heating another portion of plasma to C. , and filtering oif the coagulum , magnesium ] phate prodnced no precipitate , showing that all the globulins went down at or below C. 4 .
With the serum of the same animal , the dog , treated in a similar mannel , the following are the points at which coagula appeared : , and 5 .
With another porbion of serum , to which saturated solution of sodium sulphate had been added , in the same proportions in which it had been added to the plasma to prevent coagulation , the points at which coagula fell were , and 1884 .
] The Proteids of .
105 6 .
Another portion was saturated with magnesium sulphate , and the resulting precipitate filtered off ; the filtrate gave pr.ecipitates at , and .
The precipitate produced by magneslum sulphate after being washed and dissolved was found to coagulate entirely at C. Thus it is the albumin of serum and not the globulin which is thus differentiated by heat-coagulation into three several proteids with different temperatures of heat-coagulation .
Results similar to these , the points varying a degree or two in various cases , were obtained from the serum of the cat , monkey , rabbit , pig , and man .
In most instances the blood of several of each of these animals was examined .
In one specimen of monkey 's serum no coagulum occurred after total amount of proteids in this specimen was , however , very small .
In one or two instances a fourth at 87\mdash ; 8 was found to occur , but this was qulte exceptional .
In addition to examining the blood-serum of man , various so-called serous effusions have been submitted to similar analysis .
For these I am indebted to Dr. Henry Maudsley , Resident Medical Officer , University College Hospital , and to others of the resident staff there .
It may be briefly stated that all gave similar results , , that by a process of fractional heat-coagulation the albumin of serum can be ferentiated into three proteids .
The fluids examined have been hydrocele fluid , pleuritic fluid , ascitic fluid , and parovarian fluid .
Is alkali-albumin a constant constituent of the blood-serum i ) In one or two instances neutralisation produced a faint cloudiness , but as a rule it did not .
After dilution , lleutralisation of the serum found invariably to produce a precipibate ; excess of acid up to a certain point increased this , then dissolved it ; on collecting this precipitate and examining it , it was to be serum-globnlin .
On making some alkali-albumin al'tificially from egg-albumin , it was found that magnesium sulphate precipitates it completely , in the same way that that salt precipitates obulin .
If alkalialbumin is present in serum , it will therefore be precipitated with the globulin , when the sernm is shaken with powdered nesium sulphate .
This precipitate , however , was found when redissolved to coagulate entirely at , and filtering off the coagulum the filtrate showed no of proteid .
The blood of the sheep , ox , and horse was found to differ from those just described , as in them the serum-albumin can only be diflerentiated into two proteids by the process of fractional heat- coagulation ; the points at which occurs being C. and C. The albumins of serum having thus been shown to be more numerThe Proteids of [ June 19 , ous than has hitherto been supposed , my next object was to find some distinction between these varieties of serum-albumin other than that of heat-coagulation .
It must , however , be remembered that the mere difference of temperature of coagulation is an important one ; in fact , one of the differences between fibrinogen and serumglobulin is that the former .
at C. and the latter at C. , and yet the function of these two bodies is vastly diflerent .
In the want of knowledge of the chemical constitution of the proteids , one has to be content at present with mere physical properties .
My object , however , was to find certain salts which would precipitate these varieties of serum-albumin .
the same way that Hammarsten discovered that nesium sulphate will precipitate serumglobulin from serum , and will ) cipitate nothing else , so it was hoped that certain other salts would precipitabe one variety , and that one only , of serum-albumin .
On this point I am at present still engaged .
A large number oi salts have been examined , and these experiments constitnte the second category spoken of at the commenccment of this paper .
The most important result obtained has been with ] sodium When sodium sulphate is added to saburation in excess tc serum , and shaken for many hours , no precipitate occurs .
When .
sulphate is used a dense precipitate occurs ; is filtered off , and then the filtrate is saturated with sodium sulphabe ; another dense precipitate occurs .
* If the filtrate saturated with magnesium sulphate be shakcn with sodium sulphate in excess eight or nine hours , the serum-albumin is found to be precipitated ; and the filtrate is found to be absolutely free from proteid , and is clear and colourless .
If this precipitate be washed with water saturated with magnesiun ] sulphate and sulphate , and then by adding water the solution will be found to contain proteid , which caIJ again be separated by heat in the way previously stated .
This experiment has been performed with sheep 's serum , and been confirmed on rabbit 's serum .
assium acetate was found to act similarly to sodium sulphate adding it to saturation to sertlm already saturated with gnesium produced complete precipitation of all forms of serumalburtin .
Potassium acetate differs from sodium in also cing a precipitate in ] serum .
Here it precipitates botl ] lobuljn and serum-albumin .
It thns eselnbles in its action potassium carbonate , which is known to precipitate all the proteids .
Potassium acetate is a difficult salt to with , as it deliquesces in Sohafer , " " Journal of vol. , pp. 181-187 .
I have since if serum is saturated with the double sulphate of sodium and gncsium , all the proteids are quickly completely precipitated .
1884 .
] Th Influence of Stress and Strain on Matter .
the a , ir , and is so soluble that a vast amount of it is required to saturate even a small quantity of serum .
Various other salts have been examined .
Many that are not soluble produce no effect all ; among these may be mentioned potassium nitrate , potassium sulphate , potassium chloride , potassium chlorate , ammonium chloride .
Others , like sodium chloride and sodium nitrate , precipitate globulin completely , but slowly , in simple serum .
Sodium nitrate precipitates serum-albumin completely , but slowly , after turation with magnesium sulphate .
Sodium nitrate has a very marked effect in lowering ttJe heatcoagulation of a proteid .
Potassium nitrate acts similarly , but not nearly to so reat an extent as sodium nitrate .
Fuller particulars concermng these various salts will be iven when the experiments relating to them are completed .
The most tant resuIts that these reseaxches show are as follows :\mdash ; ( 1 .
) That the albumin of serum can by the process of fractional heat-coagulation be shown to consist of three separate proteids , which may be called provisionally numbers 1 , 2 , and 3 ( to avoid a multiplicity of terms ) .
In certain animals only two of these are present .
( 2 .
) That the precipitates described by Fredericq as in serum at temperatures below C. have , in this series of experiments , in which some hundreds of heat-coagulation determinations have been made , been found never to occur .
( 3 .
) That the albumins of serum can be completely precipitated after saturation with magnesium sulphate and removal of the serumglobulin by saturation with sodium sulphate .
( 4 .
) That potassium acetate , added in excess to solution of a proteid , , serum or solution of egg-albumin , completely precipitates the proteid therefrom without coagulating it .
IV .
' The Influence of Stress and Strain on Physical Properties of Matter .
I. Moduli of continued .
Relations between Iodu of Elasticity , Thermal Capacity , and other Physical Constants .
By HERBERT TOMLINSON , B.A. Communicated by W. ADAMS , M.A. , Beceived , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The thermal capacity of each of already used for the * The original title of the paper has been altered to the above , as being more in expression .

