On the temporary Magnetic Effect induced in Iron Bodies by Rotation .
In a Letter to J. F. W. Herschel , Esq. Sec. R.S. by Peter Barlow , F.R.S. Communicated April 14th , 1825 .
Read May 5 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 317 .
] The author 's attention having been recalled to the consideration of the effects of rotation in altering the magnetic influence of iron , in the course of speculations on the cause of the rotation of the earth 's magnetic poles ; and knowing , at the same time , that Mr. Christie had found a permanent change in the magnetic state of an iron plate , by mere change of position on its axis , it seemed to him highly probable that this change , due only to a simple inversion , would be increased by rapid rotation .
On trial , however , it was found that the effect produced was merely temporary .
The experiments at first were made with a 13-inch mortar shell , fixed to the mandrel of a powerful turning lathe , worked by a steam-engine in the Royal Arsenal at Woolwich .
This being made to revolve at the rate of 640 turns per minute , the needle was deflected out several degrees , and there remained stationary during the motion of the ball , but returned immediately to its original position on ceasing the rotation .
On inverting the motion of the shell , an equal and contrary deflection took place .
As the law of the phenomena was not evident with this disposition of the apparatus , and the shell was found too heavy for perfect safety , a Shrapnel shell of eight inches diameter was mounted in a proper apparatus ( described in the paper ) , and a number of experiments made ; the law of which , however , still seemed anomalous , till the idea occurred of neutralizing the earth 's action on the needle , when the anomalies disappeared , and the general law of the effect was placed in evidence .
The needle being made a tangent to the ball , if the motion of the ball was made towards the needle ( whatever was the direction of the axis of rotation ) , the north end of the latter was attracted , and if the contrary way , repelled .
In the two extremities of the axis there was found no effect , while in two opposite points , at right angles to the axis , the effect was a maximum , and the direction of the needle was to the centre of the ball .
The author then proceeds to show how all the results , which before appeared anomalous , agree with this general view , and closes his communication with some theoretical views of their general bearing on the subject of the earth 's magnetism , which he thinks there are strong reasons for believing to be of the induced kind ; and although it appears to him doubtful whether the anomalies observed in the variation of the needle on the earth 's surface , can ultimately be referred to this cause , yet , he observes , that one condition essential to the production of these phenomena holds good in the case of the earth , viz. the non-coincidence of its polarized axis with that of its diurnal rotation .

