" V. Natural History of the Purple of the Ancients .
" By M. LJACAZF DUTHIERS , Professor of Zoology in the Faculty of Sciences of Lille .
Comnmunicated by Piofessor HUXLEY .
Received March 22 , 1860* , The purple dye so esteemed by the ancients has by turns excited the curiosity of naturalists and of historians .
The number of memoirs upon the subject is considerable , and they are to be found in almost all tongues .
However , in all these works , remarkable in many respects , and which caninot be analysed in this short notice , three deficiencies are to be noted regarding matters of very great moment in the history of this substance .
What are , 1st , the producing organs§ 2ndly , the nature§ 3rdly , the natural primitive colour of the dye ?
It is difficult to give any answer to these three questionis by means of the facts conitained in existing , memoirs .
It is for the purpose of replying to them that have undertakeni the inVestigation , whose chief results I have the hioniour now to lay before the scientific world .
The two genera Mluraex and Pit ?
purCa have yielded the species observed .
In v-ery distant localities , as at Mahon in Minorca , Mluarex brandaris , M. trunculus , and Purpura hcemasioma have furnished results which observations conducted at Boulogne oln Purpura lapillus , at Pornic ( Vendee ) on the same species and Murex erinaceus , and at La lRochelle and L'Ile de Rhe , have conifirmed .
At Marseille 's , Murex brandaris has yielded altogether similar results ; and this concordalnce of all the observations permrits me to offer them with much confidenice .
What is the organwhich produces the dye ?
The analogy which some chemists imagine they have found between the colour of alloxani or of murexide and the purple of the Mollusea , has led them to misconceive the nature of the organ which produces the colouring matter .
It is indubitable that uric acid treated with nitric acid gives a beautiful reddish purple colour when the residue is exposed to ammoniacal vapour ; and this reaction furniishes a means of detecting the rernal organ in mollusks .
But from this circumstance no onie could be justified in concluding that the purple dye was either the secretioni of the kidn-ev or the result of a moodificationi of the urinie .
Careful dissection of the purpuriferous mollusca proves that the purple dye is secreted by a very limnited portion of the mantle , which can in nio way be confounded with the true renal orgain , as which the organ of Bojanus is now genierally regarded ; the position and the structure of the purpuriferous organi are indeed totally different oinom those of the kidniey .
Small in extent , this part occupies very nearly the space bounided by the branchiwe and the rectum , beyond whose extremities it hardly extends anteriorly , while posteriorly it , at most , reaches the organ of Bojanus .
It forms neither a sac nor a reservoir , as it has been stated to do ; and these phrases , as well as ' purpuriferous vein , ' should be rejected , because the organl is simply extended over the surface .
Large elongated cells , placed perpendicularly side by side on the surface of the pallial cavity in the direction of its greatest diameter , compose its tissue .
They form about two or three layers , the most exterior of which , covered with vibratile cilia , presenits the most developed cells .
Below lies a very rich capillary network , which distributes the blood coming from the orgaii of Bojanus and the neighbouring parts of the mantle to the branchise .
The cells , when they have reached maturity , fall into the pallial cavity , become endosmotically distended , burst , and mingle their contenlts with the other mucus which already existed there .
This independent and isolated shedding of the histological elements constitutes the secretion of the dye-stuff , which , it is obvious , is not produced by a compound gland , or indeed by any gland in the proper sense of the word , but by a glandular portion of the pallial surface .
It is the granular but soluble matter contained in these cells which possesses singular properties , and constitutes the dye-stuff .
The peculiar layer whose position has just been indicated is not special , anatomically speaking , to the two genera Mur-ex and Purpura ; and this is important if , in looking at the matter morphologically , a similar part of the surface of the mantle of most gasteropods appears to produce a substance of like histological character , but differenit in its properties .
In the AplysiEe and the Snlails it is naturally coloured , whilst in Turbo littorali8 and Trochus cinereus it is colourless , and undergoes no mnodification by the action of the solar rays .
rhus , then , it is incorrect to say , with some chemists , that , anatomically speaking , the purple dye-stuff is yielded by the kidneys of Mollusca .
Anatomical investigation has led to the recognition in the genera Murex and Purpura of a peculiar anal glalnd placed alongside the rectumn , and opening by a terminal pore close to the anus .
This gland , which does not seem to have been described hitherto , is in structure and the arborescent disposition of its secretory ceeca , a well-defined gland ; and by this very circumstance it is impossible to confound it with the purpuriferous organ .
Properties of the Purple Dye-stuff.-A very curious fact , known from all antiquity , since the very existence of the dye depends upon it , is the transformation of the dye-stuff by the action of the solar rays .
In the living animilal this substance is at first colourless , or nor or less yellowish ; exposed to the light of the suln , in a moist state it acquiires a pure violet hue ; in a word , it is photogenic .
The solar actioni causes the three simple colours to be developed successively , and in the following order , yellow , blue , and red .
Between these , the compound colours green and violet which result from their mixture , are obtained with the greatest distinctnless if the action is slow .
But whilst the yellow disappears by prolonged action , a considerable amount of blue always remains ; whence in nature the finial red is never pure , so that the dye always inclines more or less to violet .
These properties have been placed beyond doubt by the possibility of making photographs on silk and cambric , which exhibit a remarkable delicacy in detail , combined with great strerngth of tone .
In a photograph obtained in this way , the different tints through which the dye-stuiff passes before becoming violet are more or less to be seen , but the deep violet predominates , and represents the black of ordiinary photographs .
The changes in the colour of the purple dye-stuff are accompanied by the productioni of a very penetrating foetid odour , similar to that of essence of garlic .
The evolution of this odour is as characteristic of the solar actioni as the changes of colour , a consideration of much importance when we desire to solve the problem to which I Inow turn-IUhat was the primitive colour of the purple stuffs of antiquity ?
At first sight this question seems to be easily answered ; but when one seeks for a precise signification of the word 6 purple , " one soon becomes embarrassed .
If we aslk a painter , without telling him why , -Be so good as to pailnt the shade which you would give to a purple drapery in a historical painting-each painter to whom the request is made will give a different colour .
This is the case because no one has an exact idea of the primitive colour , which has been gradually modified , and which has now become the red , almost scarlet , which many painters understand by the word purple .
It is only by the initerpretation of the phrases of the ancients , and comparing them with direct observations , that one arrives at a solution of the difficulty , which would appear to be of great use to art .
It is enough to remark that the purple colour exists only because it has been developed by the sun , in justification of the conclusion that the ancients must have been acquiainited with this peculiarity , as also with that of the development of the characteristic foetid odour .
1P1iny , moreover , speaks of both , and helnce it cannot be doubted that the purple was produced formerly exactly as at present , unless we admit that the animals and their dye-stuff have changed , which would be an altogether gratuitous hypothesis .
The conclusion to which we are driven then is this : the colour was produced formerly as at present , under the same conditions and with the same characters , so that it ought to have been similar to that which we now obtain .
In simple and natural experiments the violet has never failed to appear , while pure red has always been absent .
One is led to conclude , therefore , that the natural and unmodified purple of the ancients was violet , as it is now ; for whoever discovered it must have made the experiment , as it has been so often repeated , on the sea-shore , by breaking a purpuriferous mollusk , and crushing its mantle on moist linen which is exposed to the sun .
Pliny cites Cornelius Nepos , who states positively that at first the violet purple was esteemed ; and the passages of Plato and of Aristotle , which relate to the colour , lead to the same conclusion .
I-lowever , it cannot be doubted that though the colour of purple stuffs was primitively violet , the requirements of taste and of fashion led to the variation of its shades .
Thus some stuffs were dyed twice , to give them a richer and more vivid colour the so-called 'purpurea dibapha .
' The mixture of species also contributed to modify the hues .
Miurex truneulus gives an almost blue shade .
The fishermen of Port Mahon told me that it always yielded that colour , and especially that it would give a fixed and permanent colour .
On the contrary , Purpura hIemamstoma ( which they call cor de fel ' ) was knownl to them as staining their linen very permanently and ineffaceably .
It ought also to be recollected that when mineral colours replaced the animal matter of mollusks , the hue varied ; and though the term ' purple ' might be retained , it was easy to pass by degrees to the deep red which rises in the mind when we recollect the purple worn by cardinals .
Perhaps also the manipulations to which the molluscan dye-stuff may have been subjected by the dyers , and of whose nature we know nothing , approximated the purple to the red , which Pliny compares to that of coagulated blood .
But it remains none the less demonistrated , both by the passages from ancient authors and by experiment , that the primitive and natural colour of the purple was formerly , as now , violet .
Hence it would appear to be requisite for a painter to consider the epoch when the personages who are represented clothed in purple drapery lived , for the hue varied with the age .
The properties of the purple dye-stuff also render intelligible one ground of the esteem in which the colour was held ; for , developed by the influence of -light , it could not fade , like the red of cochineal for example , but must always have remained beautiful , even in the luminous and dazzling atmosphere of Italy and the East .
It would be difficult , with the scanty materials we possess , to determine exactly the species employed by the ancients .
Without doubt Pliny has indicated the two genera Murex and Purpura of the moderns by the names Purpura and Buccinum .
It is probable that Murex trunculus and brandaris , and Purpura hakmastoma , were employed by the dyers ; but it would be difficult to identify the different species indicated by Pliny .
Zoological investigations , accompanied by experiments which are all simply and easily made , would perhaps lead to results more definite than can be obtained by the interpretation of passages , if one could carry them out on the shores of counitries formerly famous for their purple-those of Tyre for example .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 1 .
Animal with Purpura lapillu , with the pallial cavity laid open .
1 .
Genital orifice .
3 .
Anal gland .
5 .
Branchia .
2 .
Anus .
4 .
Purpurogeiiic organ .
6 .
Organ of Bojanus .
Fig. 2 .
The animal simply removed from its shell .
1 .
Branchiae .
2 .
Purpurogenic organ .
3 .
Anal gland .

