2 .
" Magnetic Survey of the Eastern Archipelago .
" By Captain C. M. Elliot of the Madras Engineers .
Communicated by Lieut.-Col. Sabine , V.P. Treas .
R.S. &amp;c. Received Jan. 15 , 1851 .
In the year 1845 , the Committee of Physics of the Royal Society having expressed a wish that a Magnetic Survey should be made of the East Indian Archipelago , Captain Elliot was ordered by the Court of Directors of the East India Company to undertake that duty , after the close of the Singapore Magnetic Observatory .
The observations at that observatory were discontinued at the end of the year 1845 , but the instruments were still allowed to remain , that the portable instruments might be occasionally compared with them during the Survey .
The object which the author proposed to himself was the determination of certain magnetic lines within the limits of the Survey : the lines of no dip , and of the maximum horizontal component of the earth 's force ; the minimum intensity of the total magnetic force ; and finally , the line of no declination .
He was also desirous of observing the variations of the magnetic elements , and of ascertaining whether the changes of the declination , of magnetic intensity , and of the barometer , were uniformly similar over so large an area .
The fixed stations for this latter purpose were sixteen in number , and the time employed at each station varied from a few days to several months .
They were spread over an area of 28 ?
of latitude , and more than 40 ?
in longitude , viz. from 16 ?
latitude north to 12 ?
south , and from 80 ?
to 125 ) ?
longitude east .
This part of the globe coincides very nearly with the position of minimum total force .
Of the sixteen stations , nine were to the south of this line , three to the north , and four in its immediate vicinity .
Four stations were in the islands adjacent to Singapore ; one in Borneo ; one in the island of Java ; two in Sumatra ; one in the island of Mindanao ; one in Celebes ; one at the Cocos or Keeling Islands , which was the most southern station to which Capt. Elliot could venture ; one at Penang , and one in its immediate vicinity ; one at Nicobar , an island in the Bay of Bengal ; one at Moulmein , which was the most northerly , and one at Madras , which was the extreme westerly , station .
The total number of days employed in observing at the fixed stations amounted to 496 .
The instruments employed at the fixed stations were , for the changes of declination , sometimes three , but never less than two ; and for the changes of the horizontal force , a bifilar magnetometer with a thermometer for registering the temperature of the enclosed magnet ; a barometer , either Newman 's standard or a portable , with their attached thermometers ; a dry and wet bulb thermometer for ascertaining the humidity of the atmosphere ; and a standard thermometer .
The observations were usually made under canvas , and close to the sea-shore .
There being usually but one assistant , it was impossible to observe during the whole twenty-four hours ; the hours of observation selected were therefore from 3 A.M. to 9 P.M. inclusive .
In Borneo , and during the first four months in Java , there were three assistants , and observations were taken hourly .
As these observations were made at the different stations in different seasons , it was necessary to have the observations of some station for upwards of a year , for the purpose of instituting a comparison between the changes of one station with another .
This was more especially the case with the declination changes , as the times of extreme westerly variation are continually altering .
The curves of changes of declination at Singapore were therefore projected for each month of the three years 1843 , 1844 and 1845 , during which time the observations had been made hourly ; and likewise for each of the four seasons ; by comparing with these the observations made during the Survey , the author was able to distinguish the changes due to geographical position from those due to the season of the year .
At Singapore , the extreme westerly variation occurs in December at 19 hours , or 7 A.M. ; in January at 201 ; in February at 21h ; in March , or the month in which the sun passes the equator , there is a slight retrogression ; in April the extreme westerly variation is at 21h ; in July and August at 23h ; in September at 22h ; in October at 21h , and in November at 20 hours .
In the winter the extreme westerly variation is at 20 hours ; in spring at 21 hours ; in summer at 23 hours , and in autumn at 21 hours ; agreeing in this respect with the spring curves , but differing very materially as regards the progression of the needle eastward in the afternoon .
The oscillation has much the greatest range during the winter months ; autumn comes next , and preserves an almost perfect parallelism with the winter .
The spring and summer curves preserve their parallelism during the afternoon .
The mean curves of each of the three years have an almost perfect resemblance .
There are two most decided maxima at 18h and at 3 or 4 hours , and one minimum at 21n .
There are besides two other minima at 10h and 17 " , and another maximum at 14 hours , making in all three maxima and three minima .
If we turn to the seasons , we find in the winter only one strongly defined maximum and minimum .
In spring two maxima , one minimum ; in summer and autumn two maxima and two minima .
The amount of oscillation is greater in winter than in summer .
The sun is a longer time to the south of the line of minimum force than to the north of it .
Singapore is in north latitude 1 ? ?
18 , and the lines of no dip and minimum force cross the meridian of Singapore in latitude 8 ?
north nearly , and therefore the sun is to the south of these lines about 220 days of the year .
If we compare the oscillations of the declination at the different stations with the Singapore curves , we see that of the sixteen stations two do not agree , one is doubtful , and the other thirteen do agree with the march of the needle at Singapore .
Of the three not in accordance , the one that is doubtful is in the vicinity of the lines of no dip and minimum force , whilst the two which do not agree , viz. Madras and Moulmtein , are both to the north of the line of no dip , and of the line of minimum force .
The Moulmein observations were made in the month of April ; the hours of morning maximum and minimum are 21 and noon , whereas at Singapore the hour of morning minimum is 21 , which is that of the maximum at Moulmein .
Again , the Madras observations were taken in the autumn , the morning maximum and minimum being at 20 hours and at noon ; there is no well-defined morning maximum at the same period at Singapore , but the morning minimum occurs at 21 hours .
We see , therefore , that the stations south of the line of no dip and of minimum force , with the exception of Keemah in the Celebes , all are in perfect accordance with the march of the needle at Singapore .
Sambooanga , in the island of Mindanao , is nearly on the line of no dip , and agrees generally with the Singapore curve ; but it is to be observed , that as we proceed northerly and approach the lines of no dip and of minimum force , the similarity to the Singapore curve becomes much more faint , although agreeing tolerably well .
This may be seen on inspection of the Plates , where the curves of Sumatra , Java and the Cocos , which are extreme southerly stations , agree exceedingly well with those at Singapore .
The next observations referred to are those of the horizontal force at different seasons .
As the observations at the different stations were made at different times of the year , it appeared necessary , as in the case of the declination , to ascertain what changes might take place in the different seasons at a station where an uninterrupted series had been observed for a considerable time .
Accordingly , Singapore , where observations were made hourly during three years , was chosen as the point to which all the stations of the Survey were referred .
Unlike the declination , which changes its time of extreme western position , not only in every season , but in nearly every month of the year , the maximunm horizontal force at Singapore occurs with great regularity either at 22 or 23 hours , whilst the minimum at 9 or 10 hours is but very faintly defined .
In other respects also the curves preserve a perfect parallelism , if we except only the greater range during the spring .
In the curves representing the changes of the horizontal force at the different stations of the Survey a general similarity is perceptible ; a very decided maximum at noon , with a minimum very faintly marked .
The irregularity , where observable , appears to be principally attributable to the short time during which the observations were taken .
At Moulmein , the large oscillation appears to be principally due to the very great change of temperature .
The coeffi cient of temperature of the magnet was determined at Moulmein , and yielding the same results at other stations , is considered satisfactory as regards accuracy .
The range of the thermometer at Moulmein was upwards of ' 35 ?
; and in the middle of the day , in the tent , the heat was almost insupportable , being upwards of 105 ? .
The oscillation of the horizontal force is much greater at Moulmein than at any other station .
The minimum oscillation is at Singapore , and increases both northward and southward .
During the Survey the portable bifilar was compared with the large Observatory bifilar , and the results are given .
The angle of torsion employed was always the same , equal to 60 ?
; and the threads by which the hollow cylindrical magnet was suspended were the same during nearly the whole of the Survey , having been in use for upwards of three years .
The barometer was observed at every station .
At the principal stations the standard was in use , and at the others the portable , from the greater trouble and risk attending the landing the large barometer .
The curve of the barometer , corrected to 32 ?
, is exceedingly regular , the time of maximum and minimum being identical for every station on the Survey , viz. 21 or 22 hours for the maximum , and 3 or 4 hours for the minimum ; the oscillation at every station amounting to about one-tenth of an inch .
The curve of the tension of vapour , as determined by the dry and wet bulb , is irregular , which is communicated to the barometric curve when applied to it ; but this irregularity may be owing to the very short time the instruments were observed at some of the stations ; and for the purpose of ascertaining whether this really was the case , I projected the curves of the barometer , corrected to 32 ?
of temperature , at somiie of those stations where observations had been carried on for more than a month , and likewise , in addition , corrected for tension of vapour , thus giving the oscillation of the column of dry air .
There is certainly not the same regularity perceptible as in the oscillation of the barometer , yet there is considerable uniformity in the oscillation of the pressure of the column of dry air , the maximum generally occurring at 19 or 20 hours , and the minimum at 2 , 3 or 4 hours .
The range is likewise considerably greater .
The tension of vapour was generally a minimum at 18 hours , when it amounted to 0'8 of an inch .
It then increased to 2 hours , when it might amount to 0'9 of an inch , and then gradually diminished , having but one maximum and one minimum in the 24 !
hours .
In the islands of the Archipelago the air is nearly saturated with moisture , and at Singapore the maximum difference between the dry and wet bulb at 1 or 2 P.m. amounted to not more than 7 ?
, and then gradually and uniformly diminished till sunrise , when the difference was rarely more than a degree .
There appears to be one maximum and one minimum of the dry and wet bulb thermometer , the former at noon or 1 P.M. , the latter at 18 or 19 hours ; the greatest and least differences between the two thermometers occurring , as has been observed , likewise at these hours .
In addition to the above , a standard thermometer by Newman was observed ; one maximum and one minimum occur in the twentyfour hours , viz. at 2 and at 18 hours .
The oscillation varies considerably ; the smallest oscillation being observable at Singapore , where the standard thermometer was placed inside the Observatory , and exposed to a current of air passing through the building .
The range was greatest at Moulmein and in Sumatra ; but at these observatories , the instruments being under canvas , the direct influence of the sun 's rays was very great .
In addition to these thermometrical observations , there was likewise in use a Solar Radiation Thermometer , the bulb of which was tinged of a dark purple colour , not absolutely black ; this instrument was placed on a table outside the observing tent , and the bulb beyond the edge of the table exposed to the sun .
This thermometer was read off from 19 hours to 4 or 5 hours P.M. , and the maximum of the day , with the time at which it was observed , recorded .
The minimum thermometer ( self-registering ) was placed at night , and in a similar manner , on the table outside the tent , and the minimum read off in the morning .
These observations have been recorded in the Tables , but have not been deemed of sufficient importance to lay them down in curves .
This completes that portion of the Survey which relates to the hourly changes of the magnetical and meteorological instruments .
The author next proceeds to the consideration of the absolute determinations , which formed the principal object of the Survey , viz. Latitude , Longitude , Dip , Horizontal Force and Declination .
The method adopted in making these observations was as follows .
On arrival at a station , the tent was pitched , and the instruments prepared .
These were a six-inch dip circle , a portable declinoreter , an altitude and azimuth instrument by Robinson , and a chronometer which had been long in use , and was scarcely trustworthy for a fixed rate .
Commencing the following morning , the first instrument set up was the declinometer , and as the suspension-thread was thicker than necessary , to obviate the necessity of frequent renewal , the brass weight for removing the torsion was allowed to swing for a couple of hours .
During this interval the observations for dip were completed , and by 9 A.M. the collimator magnet was in the box , the altitude and azimuth instrument in rear of it , and in adjustment with it .
Sights were then taken with the sextant and artificial horizon for time , and with the altitude and azimuth instrument in connection with the collimator magnet for declination .
From 10 A.M. to 11 A.M. observations of deflection at four different distances , and of vibration , were made with the portable declinometer , and the telescope of the altitude and azimuth instrument , for the absolute value of the horizontal force .
At noon circummeridional altitudes were observed for latitude , and in the afternoon equal altitudes were taken to confirm the observations of the morning .
The instruments were then packed up and sent off to the next station .
This was the system adopted whilst travelling ; but at the fixed stations a great number of additional observations were made of horizontal force , dip and declination .
The method of grouping the results at the different stations for the purpose of drawing the isoclinal , isodynamic and isogonic lines , is then described .
For the isoclinal lines , four groups were formed : the first consisting of forty stations in Singapore , Borneo and Java ; the second of thirty stations in Sumatra ; the third of thirty stations at sea ; and the fourth of thirty of the principal stations in the Archipelago .
The first gave for the latitude of its central station 6 ? ?
17 ' south ; longitude 108 ? ?
55 ' east ; and 27 ?
01f'5 south dip .
These thirty stations form so many equations of condition , and were combined by the method of least squares , as practised by Colonel Sabine in his Magnetic Survey of the British Isles : from the final equations it was found that the dip increased 1 ' 940 for each geographical mile perpendicular to the isoclinal lines , and that the direction of the latter is from north 86 ?
06 ' east to south 86 ?
06 ' west .
In the Sumiatran group the latitude of the central station was 0 ?
08 ' south ; longitude 100 ? ?
31 ' east ; dip 16 ? ?
36'6 south ; the rate of increase of dip being 2'021 for each geographical mile perpendicular to the isoclinal line , the direction of which is from north 83 ? ?
28 ' west to south 83 ? ?
28 ' east .
In the third , or sea group , the latitude of the central station is 2 ? ?
38 ' ; longitude 110 ?
05 ' east ; dip 9 ? ?
11'7 south ; the resulting equations give the isoclinal line running from north 87 ? ?
26 ' west to south 87 ? ?
26 ' east ; and the dip in the line at right angles to it increases at the rate of 1''993 for each geographical mile .
'he last or general group of thirty of the principal stations in the Magnetic Survey give the resulting equations at a mean latitude of 0 ?
09 ?
north , mean longitude 104 ? ?
44 ' east , and mean dip 14 ? ?
40'*4 south ; the isoclinal line running from north 86 ? ?
39t west to south 86 ?
39 ' east ; and the dip in the line at right angles to it increasing at the rate of 1 ' 953 for each geographical mile .
Nearly the same method has been pursued in laying down the lines of equal horizontal force .
In one group this line forms an angle of north 67 ? ?
48 8 ' est to south 67 ? ?
48 ' east with the meridian , and the line perpendicular to it proceeds at the rate of ?
0008249 for each geographical mile , the central station being in latitude 0 ? ?
38'-5 north , and longitude 102 ? ?
26 ' east .
In another group at the central station S ? ?
40 ' south , and 106 ? ?
33 ' east , the line of equal horizontal force forms an angle of 60 ? ?
57 ' with the meridian , and increases at the rate of '0005855 for each geographical mile on the perpendicular line .
The lines of declination have been laid down with reference to the declination at each station individually , the particular form of the lines rendering the method of grouping inapplicable .
Totalforce.-The total force was not determined directly , but by the formula f== .
sec S , where h is the horizontal intensity , a the dip , and f the total force ; and as the dip changes rapidly , but regularly , whilst the horizontal intensity changes slowly , but irregularly , it is evident the lines of total force will follow in some degree the regularity of the intervals between the lines of dip .
The total force for each station was determined by the above formula , and equations of condition , combined by the method of least squares , determined the direction of the isodynamic line , in the mean latitude of 3 ?
05 ' south , longitude 106 ? ?
47 ' ; where the mean total force was 8'745 .
The angle which the isodynamic line forms with the meridian is from north 85 ? ?
36 ' west to south 85 ? ?
36t east , and increases southerly at the rate of '001073 for each geographical mile .
The line of least intensity , in the space over which the Survey was carried , appears to agree almost exactly with the line of no dip .
To recapitulate briefly respecting the position of the principal lines .
The line of no dip cuts the meridian at an angle approaching a right angle , and near the parallel of latitude of 8 ?
north in the longitude of Singapore ; the rate of progression being almost exactly two miles of dip to one mile of latitude .
The line of least total force varies but little from the line of no dip , forming indeed a somewhat larger angle with the meridian .
The direction of the maximum horizontal force forms an angle of nearly 65 ?
with the meridian from north-west to south-east , but neither the maximuml horizontal nor the minimum total intensity appear to be , strictly speaking , lines .
In taking two stations having the same value , the one to the ntrth and the other to the south of the position of greatest horizontal intensity , and dividing the distance between them , it might be supposed that this would be the position of the line of greatest horizontal intensity ; but the maximum horizontal intensity appears not to be a line , but a space or belt extending for a consi- .
derable distance on either side of this line ; the value in this space being 8*20 .
The minimum total force was 8'149 ; the station being Madras , in latitude 13g 04t north , longitude 80 ? ?
16 ' east , dip 7 ? ?
34t north , horizontal intensity 8'078 , and declination 00 56 ' 09 " ' east .
In addition to the above , observations were made at sea , consisting of temperatures of the air and sea ; the dry and wet bulb , the standard thermometer , and , whenever practicable , of the dip with a Fox 's Dip Circle .
The author remarks that it is impossible to overestimate the practical value of this instrument at sea in low latitudes .
The dip changes two minutes for every mile of latitude .
The seas are generally smooth .
When astronomical observations cannot be taken , the dip circle becomes a truly valuable latitude instrument , and in a few minutes , by day or by night , the latitude of the ship can be correctly ascertained .
The author concludes by remarking that he has found Colonel Sabine 's many works on magnetism of considerable use , more especially ' Lloyd and Sabine 's Maagnetic Survey of Great Britain and Ireland .
'

