127 1873 .
] On a Method of viewing the Solar Prominences .
Theory .
I. II .
Mean .
( C7H12N303)2 = 372 79-49 ... ... ... ... ... ... S04 = _96 20-51 20-65 20-72 20-69 468 100-00 The formula of this salt would therefore appear to be [ C6 ( CH3 ) ( NH2 ) ( NH)2 ( HO)2]2 so4+h2 o. Amido-diimido-ordnnitrate is prepared , like the sulphate , by adding a slight excess of nitric acid to a moderately strong solution of the acetate and washing the precipitate with alcohol .
It closely resembles the sulphate in appearance , but is much more soluble in water .
When heated with excess of nitric acid it is decomposed , yielding a yellow solution , which , on being evaporated , leaves a mixture of oxalic acid and an amorphous yellow substance .
Amido-diimido-ordn acetate.\#151 ; Amido-diimido-orcin dissolves readily in acetic acid ; and on carefully evaporating the solution at a low temperature , the acetate is obtained in ill-defined crystalline plates having a purple iridescence .
It is readily soluble in cold water , but only slightly soluble in glacial acetic acid .
Amido-diimido-ordn oxalate.\#151 ; Yery slightly soluble purple scales obtained by precipitating a solution of the acetate with oxalic acid .
Amido-diimido-ordn picrate.\#151 ; On adding a solution of picric acid to a dilute solution of amido-diimido-orcin acetate and washing the precipitate with alcohol , the picrate is obtained in iridescent green needles and plates .
It is insoluble in alcohol , and but slightly soluble in water .
I cannot conclude this paper without acknowledging the very efficient aid I have received from my assistant , Mr. Charles Edward Gfroves , in conducting this investigation .
II .
" Note oil the Wide-slit Method of viewing the Solar Prominences .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 21 , 1872 .
When editing the English translation of Sc-haliens ' Spectrum Analysis , ' I discovered that the short account of the method of viewing the forms of the solar prominences by means of a wide slit , which I had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society on February 16 , 1869* , does not agree exactly in one respect with the account of the observation of February 13 as it was entered at the time in my observatory book .
The short note was written at the suggestion of a friend during a Committee held in the Royal Society 's Apartments , and , as the concluding wrords show , was intended to be followed by a more detailed account of the method of observation .
The point in question relates to the position of a second slit which was used to screen the eye from every part of the * Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xvii .
p. 302 .
128 Prof. Owen on the Fossil Mam of \#163 ; Jan. 23 , spectrum except that under observation .
The words in my book written at the time are , " narrow slit found to be best at foefts of little telescope with positive eyepiece .
" In the note the second slit was stated to have been placed before the object-glass of the little telescope .
Such an arrangement was tried in connexion with some other experiments in progress at the time .
The plan of limiting the field of view to the part of the spectrum corresponding to the refrangibility of the light of the prominence , as well as the employment of a ruby glass , is of value when the air is not favourable , or when a spectroscope of small dispersive power is used .
III .
" On the Fossil Mammals of Australia.\#151 ; Part VIII .
Family MacropodiujE : Genera Macropus , Osphranter , Phascolagus , Sthenurus , and Protemnodon .
" By Professor Owen , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received November 11 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) In the present Part of the series of papers on the Fossil Mammals of Australia , the author enters upon the description and determination of the fossils referable to the family of Kangaroos ( Macropodidae ) , restricting , however , the latter term to the species in which the molar teeth have two transverse ridges for the chief character of their grinding-surface , and excluding the Potoroos ( Hypsiprymnkbe ) , in which the working-surface of the molars is formed by four tubercles in two transverse pairs .
The large extinct species of Kangaroo indicated under the names Macropus Titan , M. Atlas , and M. Anakin former publications ( 'Mitchell 's Three Expeditions into the Interior of Eastern Australia , ' 2 vols .
8vo , 1838 , Palaeontological Appendix , vol. ii .
p. 59 , pis .
24-32 also ' Proceedings of the Geological Society of London , ' vol. xv .
p. 185 , 1858 ) here receive further elucidation of their specific distinction from any known living Kangaroos and of the grounds ( according to the value assigned thereto by present zoologists ) for referring two of these ( M. Atlas and M. Anak ) to distinct subgenera of Macropodidae .
As the extinct Kangaroos which the present paper defines are chiefly represented by fossil jaws and teeth , some remarks on the dentition of existing Kangaroos , with requisite illustrations , are premised , and the parts of the complex molars are defined .
The author then enters on the elucidation , aided by the facts premised , of Macropus Titan , M. affinis Osphranter Cooperi , 0 .
Gouldii , Phascolagus altus , Sthenurus Atlas , S. Brehus , Protemnodon Anak , P. Og , P. Mimas , and P. JRoechus .
The maxillary , mandibular , and dental characters of these extinct species are illustrated by the subjects of eight Plates .

