358 Messrs. W. H. Preece and A. Stroh .
[ Feb. 27 passing through a tube of lime as in ( fig. 3 ) .
It is our intention to try a combination of the electric arc and induction spark in these crucibles .
It is hardly necessary to note that the projection of the reversals of the lines of metallic vapours may be effected by this method better than by any method heretofore in use .
February 27 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Major-General Thuillier ( elected 1869 ) was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Studies in Acoustics .
I. On the Synthetic Examination of Vowel Sounds .
" By William Henry Preeoe and Augustus Stroh .
Communicated by the President .
Received February 17 , 1879 .
[ Pl/ ATES 6 , 7 .
] 1 .
The authors of this paper have devoted much time during the past twelve months to a study of sonorous vibrations and the reproduction of speech .
The invention of the phonograph has proved a great stimulus to this study .
Many have worked in the same field , and many of the facts elicited by the authors have been anticipated by those who have been able to give more continuous study to the subject .
Nevertheless , the mode of enquiry , the apparatus employed , and the results obtained are thought to be of sufficient novelty to justify their being brought before the Royal Society .
2 .
The curves traced by the vibrating disk of the phonograph on tinfoil , whether examined microscopically or reproduced by a species of pantelograph , were soon found to be insufficiently delicate to give the nicer shades of sound , and to fail to indicate the true curve of vibrations in all cases .
This is shown by the imperfect reproduction of speech by the phonograph itself ; the merging of the labial and dental sounds into one another , and the absence of all the sibilants and generally of the " noises " of speech .
The phonograph is in reality a very imperfect speaker , and it requires the aid of much imagination and considerable guessing to follow its reproductions .
It produces Studies in Acoustics .
11879 .
] music with wonderful perfection , but it fails to reproduce most of the " noises " of which speech is so largely made up .
The telephone is also deficient in this respect , though to a much less degree .
3 .
The first object of the authors was to find a disk which would vibrate to the finest shades of sonorous vibrations , and which would be free from those characteristic and " personal " partials which are nearly inseparable from all vibrating disks , and which interfere with their true action .
After innumerable experiments , on almost all known forms and substances , a stretched membrane of thin india-rubber rendered rigid by a cone of paper , was found to give the best effects .
Such a disk was applied to the telephone and the phonograph with fair results , and the apparatus shown in fig. 1 was then constructed to record its vibrations .
To the centre of the cone ab , shown in perspective and section in fig. 1 , which was placed in a mouthpiece similar to that of a phonograph , was attached an extremely fine glass tube ( g ) , which acted as a pen .
The ink employed was aniline dye , and it was drawn through the pen by the very slight friction exerted between its point and the paper .
The paper ( p ) on which the curves were to be drawn was the broad band frequently used for telegraphic purposes , and it was moved under the pen by mechanism similar to that used in the Wheatstone automatic telegraph apparatus , at a speed which could be varied at will from 1 to 18 inches per second .
4 .
In this way curves were obtained illustrating the sonorous vibrations due to the tones of speech , but their form was not so perfect as could have been wished , due to the imperfections of the disk , as well as , perhaps , to the friction of the pen failing to indicate the higher upper partials .
Run at a slow speed , this instrument records the variations of air pressure in front of the lips ; run at a high speed it records both air pressure and sonorous vibrations .
It thus combines the functions of Barlow 's logograph and Leon Scott 's phonautograph .
5 .
It is intended , in this paper , to confine our observations to those facts illustrating vowel sounds , a graphic representation of which , drawn by the new phonautograph , is* ' given in the following sketch ( % .
2 ) .
6 .
Helmholtz 's theory of vowel sounds is this:\#151 ; Vowels are compound musical tones , or resultant sounds formed by the combination of certain components or simple tones called partials .
The first partial , which determines the pitch of the whole , is called the prime , and the others its upper partials .
The partials depend upon the reinforcements due to the cavity of the mouth .
Vowels do not depend upon the pitch of the prime alone , or on the grouping or harmony of the partials alone , but on both .
The ear must distinguish each component ; it must recognise the kind of cavity producing the reinforcements , and therefore it determines the different vowels .
This theory has been partly Messrs. W. H. Preece and A. Stroh .
[ Feb. 21 confirmed recently by Messrs. Fleeming Jenkin and Ewing , by a analytical examination of phonographic tracings , fully described b them in a paper read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh .
7 .
The principal vowel sounds are\#151 ; Ah , as in . . . .
path A " . .
hay E " . . . .
he 0 " . .
old oo " . . . .
good .
There are several others which are modifications of these five , sue ) as uhas in gut ; a as in bad ; aw as in law , \amp ; c. The diphthongs are :\#151 ; i which is compounded of ah and e. u , , " e and oo .
y " " oo , ah , and e. 8 .
The cavity of the mouth changes during the articulation of these diphthongs\#151 ; it remains constant during the articulation of vowels .
It is thought that the influence of the first emission of breath in distinguishing the character of the vowfels has been lost sight of , and that in addition to the influence of the cavity of the mouth , some allowance must be made for the increment and decrement of the sonorous vibrations , as well as for the variation of air pressure at the commencement and completion of a vowel sound .
Helmholtz has acknowledged the influence of these operations in consonants and compound musical tones generally , but he has not considered them in vowel sounds .
The previous diagram ( fig. 2 ) shows what an essential feature they bear on vowel sounds .
9 .
The manner in which vowel sounds blend into each other is strikingly shown in the way in which different dialects deal with different vowels .
Thus , what a London man calls subject a Lancashire man calls soobject ; a Londoner says , a Lancashire man Mawnchester , a Scotchman Manchester .
Under is often pronounced onder .
We need not , however , examine different dialects to discover this curious blending of vowel sounds ; it is found in inhabitants of the same district to a greater or less extent .
Thus with the word Manchester , Londoners often say Menchester , , or Marnchester .
In every case which the authors have investigated , this change of vowel sound , due to dialect , is simply due to the shifting or lowering of the upper partials .
10 .
The order of the principal vowels , which is given above , does not follow any theoretical principle .
It would seem that a better order to follow would be one dependent on the pitch of the partials as given by Helmholtz .
[ 879 .
] Studies in Acoustics .
361 1 .
... 2 .
... O " I | uh\#151 ; ( gut ) .
3 .
... ah^ J ^ awe \#151 ; ( law ) 4 .
... } a \#151 ; ( bad ) 5 .
... All the subsidiary vowels , such as uh , awe , a , take up intermediate positions in this scale , so that , in fact , we may say that there is a vowel spectrum , in which the different sounds merge into each other by almost imperceptible gradations , and hence , probably , the difference in dialectical pronunciation .
11 .
In the following investigation , a method opposite to that of Messrs. Fleeming Jenkin and Ewing has been adopted , i.e. , the question has been attacked by the method of synthesis .
It has been assumed that vowels are compounded of a prime sound and certain upper partials , and the number of these partials has , for convenience , been taken as 8 , although there are many more .
Indeed , we have-taken in some cases , the 10th , 12th , and 16th .
Now , since each partial can be considered as a simple harmonic curve , if we assume the pitch of a prime to be constant , then it would be possible , by means of a machine , to represent and vary each partial in phase and in amplitude .
For this purpose an instrument was constructed , which we call " the synthetic curve machine , " in which a number of toothed wheels , A , B , C , D , E , F , G , H , \amp ; c. ( figs. 3 and 4 ) are mounted on steel pins or axes rigidly fixed on a board , so that they will revolve together , and the numbers of their teeth are so calculated that during one revolution of the wheel A , B will make two , C three , D four , E five , F six , G seven , H eight revolutions , and so on .
The wheel I has , on its prolonged axis , a small crank , by means of which the whole system of wheels can be rotated .
On the same axis is a pinion I ' , gearing into the wheel J , which , by means of a chain T , gives motion to a sliding table R. Each head of the pins on which the eight wheels revolve , Ktis , in its centre , a small pit or hollow , in which rest the pointed ends of eight steel rods ( one of which B ' only is represented in fig. 4 ) , held in position by eight springs 6 .
To the rod on the wheel A is attached , near its point , one end of a silken thread b ' , passing over the roller N ' , the other end being attached to the rod on wheel B. The rods on wheels C and D , E and F , G and H are similarly connected .
The four rollers N are mounted on two levers U and IP , and these are connected by links to the lever V , which is finally linked to the lever P. This lever P is pivoted at p , and by means of the spiral spring S keeps the levers , links , and silk threads in a state of tension .
On the longer end of the lever P is pivoted another lever O , which carries at its shorter end Messrs. W. H. Preece and A. Stroh .
[ Feb. 27 , a small counterbalancing weight ( W ) , and at its longer end a glass pen ( Q ) containing suitable ink .
On the table R is placed a piece of paper or smoked glass , which is held there by two spring clamps .
Each of the eight wheels has on its face a number of small holes or pits , into which the points of the rods B ' can be placed , and these are arranged in eight rows radiating from the centre .
When one of the rods , for instance that belonging to the wheel B , is placed in position B " , as indicated by the dotted lines , and motion is given to the wheels by means of the crank on the axle belonging to the wheel I , the cranklike movement of the rod B ' will , by means of the silk thread b\ roller N ' , levers U , V , and O , cause the pen Q to move to and fro with simple harmonic motion , while the table R will move longitudinally , the pen thereby writing on the paper a simple harmonic curve .
This can be done with each of the eight rods separately , the result being in each case a simple curve .
Should , however , two or more rods be placed on the faces of the wheels , the result will be a curve compounded of the sum of the several simple curves .
In order to increase or decrease the amplitude of a curve , the steel rods are placed further from , or nearer to , the centre of the wheels .
Difference of phase is obtained by shifting the rods to the different radial rows of holes on the face of the wheels .
Three additional wheels , K , L , M , have been fitted , making 10,12 and 16 revolutions respectively , to one turn of the wheel A , and the rods belonging to neighbouring wheels are so arranged that they can be borrowed for the use of these smaller wheels if desirable .
12 .
Besides assuming the pitch to be constant , it has also been assumed that each octave of the partial , to maintain equal loudness of sound , must diminish one half in amplitude as it rises .
Thus the First Octave is \ the amplitude of the prime .
Second " i 4 99 99 Third " JL 8 99 99 Fourth , , tV 99 99 The intermediate notes , such as the third and the fifth , decrease in intermediate ratio .
13 .
This instrument enables us to form synthetically all the curves produced by vowel tones , and to show how these tones are compounded of primes and harmonic upper partials .
It shows how simple tones can be produced by simple harmonic curves , and compound tones by the simultaneous action of several simple tones .
The following figure ( fig. 5 ) , shows the simple harmonic curve produced by each wheel , and several examples of curves formed by different components .
In this way curves have been reproduced as shown in fig. 6 , representing the vowel sounds based on Helmholtz 's theory , as indicated by Mr. Ellis in a tabular statement , at page 181 of his translation of Helmholtz 's work .
Studies in Acoustics .
1879 .
] Figs. 7 and 7a show reproductions of the vowel 0 , sung at different pitches , as determined by Messrs. Fleeming Jenkin and Ewing .
14 .
[ It is worth remarking parenthetically , that one interesting fact arising from the operation of this machine , was that curves could be so constructed as to give a stereoscopic effect .
One curve was drawn simple , and the other , drawn in the same line\#151 ; at the proper distance from it to tit a stereoscope\#151 ; was made compound , by the addition of a partial of low amplitude .
The result of the combination by the eye in a stereoscope of these two curves , was to produce a perspective effect .
By this means curves have been drawn which interlace amongst each other , giving stereoscopic effects in a manner which is unique and interesting .
This has no bearing whatever on the investigation , and is only adduced as a scientific toy arising out of the enquiry .
] 15 .
Having thus studied the formation of vowel sounds , and having a means to reproduce the compound curves which graphically represent the motions which the air particles assume under their influence , the authors determined to try to reproduce these vowels by superimposing partials on to a given prime .
Since vowels are produced by a prime and its upper partials , and as the upper partials diminish so rapidly in amplitude , the idea arose that these vowels might be reproduced by sounding a prime and one of its partials alone .
This was done by means of an electro-magnet E , fig. 8 , vibrating an armature ( A ) with a moveable spring ( S ) attached to it in such a way that the vibrations of the armature could produce a given prime , while the vibrations of the spring , by varying its length , could also be adjusted to any particular partial .
16 .
The result was to roughly reproduce the principal vowel sounds , but the effect not being by any means perfect ( due to the absence of the other upper partials ) , a machine was made on the principle of the synthetic curve machine , which wouH , instead of drawing curves on paper , reproduce eight partials by transferring the vibrations of the intermediate wheels to a vibrating diaphragm .
This machine consists of eight wheels fixed on the same axis , the periphery of the wheels being cut into teeth of such a number as to represent the eight partials .
Each tooth is a simple harmonic curve , and each wheel represents one partial .
The axis can be rotated by a crank at any given velocity .
By depressing a key a spring can be brought into contact with the edge of each wheel , and be thus vibrated .
The vibrations of these springs are transferred by thin cords and intermediate linking to a diaphragm of ebonite .
Each spring can be depressed separately or simultaneously with others , and the disk will vibrate to the resultant effect of all the vibrations .
Thus , notes and chords can be sounded .
17 .
Here again , though the vowels were fairly reproduced , someMessrs .
W. H. Preece and A. Stroh .
, [ Feb. 27 , thing was wanting in their clearness .
This instrument proves to be an excellent syren , and all the facts illustrated by the apparatus of Cagniard de la Tour and others can be equally illustrated by it .
Moreover , it forms the basis of a new musical instrument which there has been no time as yet to mature .
18 .
In the hope of getting more perfect definition , another machine was now made upon which disks were fitted , whose peripheries were cut in exact copy of the curve produced by the synthetic curve machine .
These curves were transmitted by vibration to the receiving diaphragm of a phonograph , and really formed an " automatic phonograph .
" The automatic phonograph consists of an axle A , fig. 9 , about \#166 ; 6 inches long , one end of which carries a fly-wheel B , and the other end a grooved pulley C , round which a band or gut passes from a driving wheel D , fitted with a crank handle E. On rotating the driving wheel , the long axle is caused to make about three revolutions to one of the wheel .
On the long axle are placed , in such a manner that they can easily be removed and replaced by others , a number of brass wheels or disks , a , a , a , a , the circumferences of which have been cut by a machine especially devised for that purpose into the different curves corresponding exactly to the curves obtained by the synthetic curve machine , but on a much reduced scale .
A diaphragm G with spring and frame H , similar to that in a phonograph , is so fitted that it can be shifted from one disk to another , and the sounds produced by the different curves can be readily compared .
The number of periods or resultant vibrations recurring on each wheel .or disk has for convenience been taken at thirty .
Thus , when the driving wheel is rotated about twice per second , 180 to 200 vibrations are caused , resulting in a note at / or gin the musical scale .
A number of combinations of curves has been cut on the circumferences of the brass disks , representing each vowel sound with certain variations of the partials , as experience determined .
These disks were then placed on the axle , and the sounds most resembling the vowel sounds of .
the human voice were easily recognised .
19 .
In this way it was found that from about / to in the musical scale , the sound oo consists mainly of the first partial or prime .
But to maintain the oo character descending the scale , the second and third partials became slightly necessary .
20 .
The prominent partial in the vowel sound 0 at the same pitch is the second , while the first can be reduced considerably .
The third and fourth partials have to be used as the sound descends the scale , otherwise what is 0 at say b flat , will become oo an octave lower .
21 .
The vowel sound ah is the easiest to reproduce .
It consists chiefly of the third , fourth , fifth , and sixth partials at the above pitch , the first and second partials being only slightly represented .
A little * Studies in Acoustics .
1879 .
] ttore prominence to the second , third , and fourth partials will result u awe , while a bright ah is obtained by increasing the amplitude of , he fifth and sixth partials .
22 .
A very good and full ah is obtained by having all the partials jqually represented , from the first to the eighth ; and this really probably takes place when the human voice pronounces this vowel , as , in jo doing , the mouth cavity is fully opened , so as to favour most of the partials .
' 23 .
The vowel sounds a and ee , when reproduced by most of the ordinary phonographs , resemble respectively more o and oo .
Also the curves for a and ee , obtained by the phonautograph , fig. 2 , resemble those for o and oo .
This shows , in the first instance , that neither instrument is sensitive to the higher upper partials ; and , secondly , that the lower partials for a must be similar to those in 0 , and the lower partials for ee must be the same as in oo .
To prove this , two disks were cut , one with a curve composed* of the first , second , and eighth partials , and the other of the first , third , and eighth partials .
The former , when sounded , produced a sound like ee , and the latter more like a. \gt ; , 24 .
The best ee has been obtained from a curve composed of the best first , second , eighth , and sixteenth partials ; and from a curve composed of the first , third , and sixth or eighth partials ; but this last curve can hardly be called satisfactory .
25 .
Diagram 10 graphically illustrates the above facts , and the following table gives them in a tabulated form:\#151 ; Towels .
Partials with their Intensities .
00 . .
i. 2 .
3 .
ff .
mf .
pp. all * .
i. 2 .
3 .
4 .
mf .
f. mf .
p. o 1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
8 .
P- P- p. * mf .
3 .
W mf .
PPa . .
1 .
8 .
mf .
mf .
ff . .
ee # .
lC 2 .
8 .
mf .
PPHence , although the reproduction of vowels was good , it was imperfect .
This is due probably to the absolute impossibility of reproducing the noises that accompany the last two vowels .
26 .
One very curious result arising from the experiments with the automatic phonograph was to show that , by varying the pitch , the vowel sounds could be shifted , i.e. , the curve which produced oo at a low velocity becomes approximately at a higher velocity .
0 similarly becomes ah , ah becomes d , and d , ee .
i 366 Studies in Acoustics .
[ Feb. 27 , 27 .
It follows from this investigation as far as it has gone , that our knowledge of vowel sounds is not perfect .
The principal proof of this is the fact that vowels cannot be reproduced exactly by mechanical means .
Something is always missing\#151 ; probably the noises due to the rush of air through the teeth , and against the tongue and lips .
28 .
The curves ( fig. 10 ) arrived at synthetically do not differ very materially from those arrived at analytically by Helmholtz ( fig. 6 ) .
They principally differ in the prominence of the prime .
But the prime can be dispensed with altogether .
Curves produced by the synthetic machine , compounded of the different partials without their prime , show that there exist beats or resultant sounds .
A vowel sound of the pitch of the prime may be produced by certain partials alone , without sounding the prime at all .
The beat in fact becomes the prime .
This point is clearly illustrated , orally , by the automatic phonograph , and graphically by the sketch ( fig. 11 ) , drawn by the synthetic curve machine .
In fact , every two partials of numbers indivisible by any common multiple , if sounded alone , reproduce by their beats the prime itself .
Thus , the third and the fifth partials , or the second and the third , \amp ; c. , will result in the reproduction of the prime .
In fact , fig. 11 illustrates not only this , but it shows that when the number of partials introduced is increased , the beats become more and more pronounced .
II.\#151 ; The Loudness of Sound .
29 .
Another point remaining for investigation arising out of this inquiry , is the true theory of the loudness of sound .
It is thought by the authors that loudness does not depend upon amplitude of vibration only , bat also upon the quantity of air put into vibration ; and , therefore , there exists an absolutely physical magnitude in acoustics analogous to that of quantity of electricity or quantity of heat , and which may be called the quantity of sound .
This can be shown experimentally by constructing three disks like those in fig. 1 , whose diameters increase in arithmetical ratio .
When these disks are vibrated by the same curve by the automatic phonograph , or when they are thrown into vibration by tuning forks , it will be found that the intensity of sound increases in a surprising ratio .
The amplitade remains just the same , the area under vibration alone increases .
Thus , in the automatic phonograph , for two notes , one of which is an octave higher than the other , the area ought probably to be diminished one-half for the higher to produce equal loudness .
S we increase the area to be vibrated found that , as the area increases , so d^u \#151 ; ------ \#171 ; emitted .
In fact , in the automatic phonograph the diameter of the 1 sounding disk ought , if it were possible , to vary with the pitch of each note , to produce equal intensity of sound .
milarly for the same note , it in its reproduction , it will be " X-Ta / a 1 / a H ia / a n n / a d C rm T1 M Voyve-L U. jrroc .
tloy.quo vuu zo.j : l. / .
11879 .
] On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
367 The authors are now engaged in pursuing this inquiry into the consonantal sounds .
II .
" On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
" No. V. By Gr .
D. Living , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received February 20 , 1879 .
Since our last communication we have continued our experiments , using the electric arc as a source of heat , in lime and in carbon crucibles as described before .
Success depends on the getting a good stream of vapour in the tubular part of the crucible .
This is easily attained in the lime crucibles , which quickly reach a very high temperature , but are very soon destroyed ; not so certainly in the carbon j crucibles , which are good conductors of heat .
The latter , however , j last for a very long time .
In our experiments with tubes heated in a furnace we used a small spectroscope with a single prism , which gave a good definition and plenty of light ; but in the experiments here described we have used a j larger spectroscope by Browning , with two prisms of 60 ' and one of j 45 ' , taking readings on a graduated circle instead of on a reflected scale .
Both in the lime and in the carbon crucibles we have found that the finely channelled spectrum , extending with great uniformity from end to end , always made its appearance so long as the poles were close together .
A few groups of bright lines appear on it .
We have not at present investigated this remarkable spectrum further .
In several cases we have observed the absorption lines of the metals put into the crucibles on this channelled spectrum as a background , but generally when the vapours in the crucibles become considerable , the channellings give place to a spectrum of bright lines on a much less bright continuous background ; we have used generally thirty cells in the galvanic battery , sometimes only twenty-five , once forty .
The calcium line with wave-length 4,226 almost always appears more or less expanded with a dark line in the middle , both in the lime crucibles and in carbon crucibles into which some lime has been introduced ; the remaining bright lines of calcium are also frequently seen in the like condition , but sometimes the dark line appears in the middle of K ( the more refrangible of Fraunhofer 's lines H ) , when there is none in the middle of H. On throwing some aluminium filings into the crucible , the line 4,226 appears as a broad dark band , ancWaoth H and K as well as the two aluminium lines between them appear for a second as dark bands on a continuous background .
Soon they appear as bright bands with dark middles ; gradually the dark line disappears from H , and afterwards from K , VOL. xxviii .
^ \#174 ;

