ern .
1883 .
] PhyMogy of Carbohydrates in the Animal Syst The nature and modifications of the Crystalline Cone are next described ; these afford an exceedingly difficult problem on which further work will undoubtedly throw much light , especially in relation to the morphology of this organ .
Some details with regard to the structure of the Great Rods are also added , which did not find a place in the general description of the Dioptron .
II .
The Anatomy and Functions of the Neuron .
The Neuron consists of three parts\#151 ; the Retina , the Optic Nerve , and the Optic Ganglion .
The minute structure of these parts is fully described in this portion of my paper .
The relation of the nerve fibres to the Bacilla and the Great Rods is also discussed .
The optic ganglion consists of parts which are clearly comparable with the nuclear and molecular layers of the Vertebrate retina .
III .
The Development of the Compound Eye .
The manner in which the Dioptron originates in the Hypoderm of the insect , as well as the nature and origin of the " Imaginal Disks , " from which this structure is sometimes formed , is described .
The development of the Neuron from the nerve-centres of the head presents features of extreme interest and importance , especially m relation to the phenomena of Ecdysis .
The segregate retina of many larvae is entirely replaced at the final Ecdysis by a newly formed retina , which is continuous , so that it appears as if a kind of internal Ecdysis affecting the epithelial elements of the nervous system occurs with the general integumental Ecdysis .
IV .
The Morphology of the Eyes of Arthropods .
The final section of my paper is a short resume of the Morphological relations of the different forms of Arthropod eye .
These have been already alluded to in the commencement of this Abstract .
V. " Introductory Note on Communications to be presented on the Physiology of the Carbohydrates in the Animal System .
By F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.R.S. Received April 5 , 1883 .
My last communication ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 32 , p. 418 ) was entitled " A new Line of Research bearing on the Physiology of Sugar in the Animal System .
" Daring the time which has since elapsed , I have been actively continuing my investigations in the direction started , and the results obtained give an entirely new aspect to the whole subject of the physiology of the carbohydrates in the animal system .
vol. xxxv .
L Dr. F. W. Pavy .
[ Apr. 15 } , Modern research has shown that , besides the well-known carbo-j hydrate principles such as sugar , \amp ; e. , there are several dextrin* distinguishable by their optical properties and their cupric oxide reducing power .
From the colloidal principle starch , which has no cupric oxide reducing power , principles ( dextrine ) are producible by the action of ferments possessing gradually increasing cupric oxide reducing power until maltose is reached , which constitutes the final product , and .which possess a little more than half the cupric oxide reducing power of glucose .
This is one foundation point connected with the researches X have been conducting upon the physiology of the carbohydrates in the animal system .
The other foundation point is that the various members of the carbohydrate group are brought into glucose by the agency of sulphuric acid and heat .
Proceeding upon these facts , and taking the cupric oxide reducing power before and after subjection to the converting action of sulphuric acid and heat , I have prosecuted investigations upon the transformation of the carbohydrates within the animal system with the result of acquiring knowledge of an altogether unexpected nature .
Hitherto what has been observed as regards the transformation of carbohydrates by the action of ferments and chemical agents , has been a change attended with increased hydration\#151 ; for example , the passage of starch into the successive forms of dextrin and maltose and cane-sugar into glucose .
The issue of the researches , however , which I have been conducting recently is to demonstrate the passage of carbohydrates exactly in the opposite direction by the action of certain ferments existing within the animal system .
* Alike in the alimentary canal , the circulatory system and the liver , the conditions exist by which this kind of transformation is effected .
From the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal a ferment is obtainable which converts ( 1 ) glucose into a body possessing the same kind of cupric oxide reducing power as maltose ; ( 2 ) cane-sugar into maltose , and not glucose as formerly asserted ; and ( 3 ) starch either into maltose or a dextrin of low cupric oxide reducing power .
The presence of carbonate of soda modifies the action of a maltoseforming ferment , and leads to starch passing into a dextrin of low cupric oxide reducing power instead of into maltose .
The portal blood contains a ferment which possesses a maltose or a. dextrin-producing power , and the contents of the portal system during digestion are charged with a notable amount of maltose sometimes , and at other times , a low cupric oxide reducing dextrin .
L$88 } Physiology of Carbohydrates the Animal System .
147 After the introduction of glucose into the circulatory system , I have observed the presence of maltose .
The liver also contains a ferment capable , under certain conditions , of carrying glucose into maltose , and I have further witnessed , by the Lame hind of action as the sugars and dextrins are moved from fne to the other , the conversion of a carbohydrate into the colloidal imaterial belonging to the animal system ( glycogen ) which holds the janalogous position of starch in the vegetable kingdom .
Evidence has likewise been supplied that by an action of the same nature as that which moves the carbohydrates from one to the other in the carbohydrate group , they are , under certain conditions , carried into a body out of the group , and thence not susceptible of being brought into glucose by the converting action of sulphuric acid ; and , on the other hand , under other conditions , a substance is brought into the carbohydrate group , and its nature made recognisable by the converting action of sulphuric acid and its cupric oxide reducing power .
The subject as it even now presents itself is a large one , and I propose to deal with it in detail in a series of communications .
The first will be devoted to that which refers to the alimentary canal .

