Mr. W. Crookes .
On the Spectra of Argon .
287 The molecular weight of argon is therefore 39*8 , and the same number expresses its atomic weight , unless it be a mixture of two elements , or of mono- and diatomic molecules of the same element .
The ratio of specific heats might support the last supposition ; but the thermal behaviour of the gas lends no support to this view .
II .
" On the Spectra of Argon .
" By William Crookes , F.R.S. , \amp ; o. Received January 26 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) Through the kindness of Lord Rayleigh and Professor Ramsay I have been enabled to examine the spectrum of this gas in a very accurate spectroscope , and also to take photographs of its spectra in a spectrograph fitted with a complete quartz train .
Argon resembles nitrogen in that it gives two distinct spectra according to the strength of the induction current employed .
But while the two spectra of nitrogen are different in character , one showing fluted bands and the other sharp lines , the argon spectra both consist of sharp lines .
It is , however , very difficult to get argon so free from nitrogen that it will not at first show the nitrogen ( lutings superposed on its own special system of lines .
I have used argon prepared by Lord Rayleigh , Professor Ramsay , and myself , and , however free it was supposed to be from nitrogen , I could always detect the nitrogen bands in its spectrum .
These , however , disappear when the induction spark is passed through the tube for some time , varying from a few minutes to a few hours .
The vacuum tubes best adapted lor showing the spectra are of the ordinary Pliicker form , having a capillary tube in the middle .
Por photographing the higher rays which are cut off by glass I have used a similar tube , 64 end on , having a quartz window at one end .
The pressure of argon giving the greatest luminosity and most brilliant spectrum is 3 mm. If the pressure is further reduced , and a Leyden jar intercalated in the circuit , the colour of the luminous discharge changes from red to a rich steel blue , and the spectrum shows an almost entirely different set of lines .
I have taken photographs of the two spectra of argon partly superposed .
In this way their dissimilarity is readily seen.5* In the spectrum of the blue glow I have counted 119 lines , and in that of the red glow 80 lines , making 199 in all .
Of these 26 appear to be common to both spectra .
I have said that the residual nitrogen is removed by sparking the * Photographs of the different spectra of argon , and other gaseous spectra for comparison , were projected on the screen .
Mr. W. Crookes .
[ Jan.3i , tube for some time when platinum terminals are sealed in .
This is not the only way of purifying the argon .
By the kindness of Pro .
fessor Ramsay , I was allowed to take some vacuum tubes to hig laboratory and there exhaust and fill them with some of his purest argon.- On this occasion I simultaneously filled , exhausted , and sealed off two Pliicker tubes , one having platinum and the other aluminium terminals .
On testing the gas immediately after they were sealed off , each tube showed the argon spectrum , contaminated by a trace of nitrogen bands .
The next day the tube with platinum terminals was unchanged , but that having aluminium terminals showed the pure spectrum of argon , the faint nitrogen bands having entirely disappeared during the night .
After an hour 's sparking the tube with platinum terminals likewise gave a pure argon spectrum .
A vacuum tube was filled with pure argon and kept on the pump while observations were made on the spectrum of the gas as exhaustion proceeded .
The large coil was used with a current of 8 84 amperes and 11 volts , no jar was interposed .
At a pressure of 3 mm. the spectrum was that of the pure red glow of argon .
This persisted as the exhaustion rose , until , at a pressure of about half a millimeter , flashes of blue light made their appearance .
At a quarter of a millimeter the colour of the ignited gas was pure blue , and the spectrum showed no trace of the red glow .
An experiment was now made to see if the small quantity of argon normally present in the atmosphere could be detected without previous concentration .
Nitrogen was prepared from the atmosphere by burning phosphorus , and was purified in the usual manner .
This gas , well dried over phosphoric anhydride , was passed into a vacuum tube , the air washed out by two fillings and exhaustions , and the tube was finally sealed off at a pressure of 52 mm. It was used for photographing the band spectrum of nitrogen on several occasions , and altogether it was exposed to the induction current from the large coil for eight hours before any change was noticed .
The last time when photographing its spectrum difficulty was experienced in getting the spark to pass , so I increased the current and intercalated a.small jar .
The colour immediately changed from the reddish-yellow of nitrogen to the blue of argon , and on applying the spectroscope the lines of argon shone out with scarcely any admixture of nitrogen bands .
With great difficulty , and by employing a very small jar , I was able to take one photograph of its spectrum and compare it with the spectrum of argon from Professor Ramsay , both being taken on the same plate .
The argon spectra were the same in each .
After this it became difficult to illuminate the tube , except by employing a danger* ously large current .
Whenever a flash passed it was of a deep blue colour .
Assuming that the atmosphere contains 1 per cent , of argon , the 3 mm. of nitrogen originally in the tube would contain 0'03 nun1895 .
] On the Spectra of Argon .
f argon After the nitrogen had been absorbed by the spattered latinum this pressure of argon would be near the point of non-conduction .
0 ' ' In all cases , when argon has been obtained in this manner , the spectrum has been that of the blue-glowing gas .
It is not improbable , and I understand that independent observations have already led both the discoverers to the same conclusion , that the gas argon is not a simple body , but is a mixture of at least two elements , one of which glows red and the other blue , each having its distinctive spectrum .
The theory that it is a simple body has , however , support from the analogy of other gases . .
Thus , nitrogen has two distinct spectra , one or the other being produced by varying the pressure and intensity of the spark .
I have made vacuum tubes containing rarefied nitrogen , which show either the fluted band or the sharp line spectrum by simply turning the screw of the make-and-break , exactly as the two spectra of argon can be changed from one to the other .
I have prepared tubes containing other gases as well as nitrogen at different pressures , and have examined their spectra both by eye observations and by photography .
The sharp line spectrum of nitrogen is not nearly so striking in brilliancy , number or sharpness of lines as are those of argon , and careful scrutiny fails to show more than one or two apparent coincidences between lines in the two spectra .
Between the spectra of argon and the band spectrum of : nitrogen there are two or three close approximations of lines , but a projection on the screen of a magnified image of the two spectra partly superposed will show that two at least of these are not real coincidences .
I have looked for indications of lines in the argon spectra corresponding to the corona line at 531*7 , the aurora line at 557*1 , and the helium line at 587*5 , but have failed to detect any line of argon sufficiently near these positions to fall within the limits of experimental error* I have found no other spectrum-giving gas or vapour yield spectra at all like those of argon , and the apparent coincidences in some of the lines , which on one or two occasions are noticed , have been very lieu , and would probably disappear on using a higher dispersion .
As far , therefore , as spectrum work can decide , the verdict must he that Lord Rayleigh and Professor Ramsay have added one , if not two , members to the family of elementary bodies .

