XI .
( " On the Influence of Temperature on the Electric Conducting-Power of Alloys .
" By A. MATTHIESSEN , F.R.S. , and C. VOGT , Ph. D. Received June 11 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) The subject of this paper has been divided into four parts , viz.:I .
Experiments on the influence of temperature on the electric conducting-power of alloys composed of two metals .
II .
Experiments on the influence of temperature on the electric conducting-power of some alloys composed of three metals .
III .
On a method by which the conducting-power of a pure metal may be deduced from that of the impure one .
IV .
Miscellaneous and general remarks .
In the first part , after having given the numerical results , we proceed to explain the law which regulates this property .
It is as follows : The observed percentage decrement in the conducting-power of an alloy between 0 ?
and 1000 C. is to that calculated between 0 ?
and 100 ?
C. as the observed conducting-power at 100 ?
C. is to that calculated at 100 ?
C. Or in symbols , Po : Pc : : X 10 : X1X ' , where Po and Pc represent the observed and calculated percentage decrements in the conducting-power of the alloy between 0 ?
and 100 ?
C. ; and X100o and X'l00o its observed and calculated conductingpower at 100 ?
C. , Pc is equal in nearly all cases to 29'307 * , the exceptions being only in the instances of thallium and iron alloyst .
The above law holds good for most of the alloys belonging to the first and third groups , as well as for a part of those belonging to the second group T. Now , if the above proportion , Po : Pc : : X10o:X'..(1 ) P=:00X ... ... ( 1 ) be converted into terms of resistance , the following formula is obtained , 2= loopo-r0oo= 100 ?
-o * .
**** ( 2 ) where r100o0 ro 2100r ' and r'0O represent the observed and calculated resistances at 0 ?
and 100 ?
C. The formula , however , expresses the fact that the absolute dijference between 0 ?
and 100 ?
C. in the resistance of an alloy is equal to the absolute diff'erence between 00 and 100 ?
in the calculated resistance of the alloy .
Formula 2 may also be written r100ยง 100 ?
= ?
0o ' which , if correct , leads to the expression r ' : o r0o ; that is , the absolute deference between the observed and calculated resistances of an alloy at any temperature equals the absolute difference between the observed and calculated resistances at 0 ?
C. ; or , in other words , r - ?
r= a constant ... ... .
( 3 ) After giving various examples to show the correctness of the above , we prove that from the expression rtr'= a constant ( 3 ) we may deduce the formula for the correction of resistance or conducting-power for temperature of an alloy as soon as we know its composition and its resistance at any temperature ; for , as r'10 r ' 0 , and r ' , may be calculated with the help of the formula given for the correction of conducting-power for temperature for most of the pure metals , if the constant rt-r't be determined , then r100 = rt2100 + constant , rt =r't constant , 0o =r00 + constant ; and from these terms the formula for the correction of resistance or conducting-power for temperature may be calculated , which in most cases will be found very near the truth .
In the second part we show by a few experiments that most alloys of three metals will probably be governed by the same law with respect to the influence of temperature on their conducting-power as alloys of two metals .
In the third part we deduce iP ' : : M mool.(4 ) P 100P 100te od ad cd ( where P and P ' represent the observed and calculated percentage decrements in the conducting-power of impure and pure metals between 0 ?
and 100 ?
C. , M1 and ' 10M their conducting-powers at 100 ?
C. ; P ' is for most metals 29-307 ) from Po : Pc : : X : X ' ... ( 1 ) 10 0o ... .1 For when we consider the last two terms of the proportion , and bear in mind that a trace of another metal has very little or no effect upon X'100o ( when it represents the conducting-power of an alloy consisting of one metal with only a trace of another metal ) , while it alters X10o to a very marked extent , it is evident that X'100o may be replaced by M1i00o We verify this by comparing the conducting-power of a pure metal directly determined , with the conducting-power of the same metal deduced from a determination of the conducting-power of its alloy with small quantities of other metals .
It is a curious fact , that the deduced values from experiments upon hard-drawn wires are in reality the conducting-powers of the annealed ire e of te pure metal .
After having thus verified the method , we have not hesitated to employ it in the determination of the conducting-power of certain metals which have not yet been experimented upon in a state of purity .
In the fourth part we point out , first , that the percentage decrement in the conducting-power of alloys between 0 ?
and 100 ?
is never greater than that of the pure metals composing them ; secondly , that the conducting-power of alloys decreases with an increase of temperature ( some bismuth alloys form an exception to this law ) ; thirdly , that in some cases the percentage composition of an alloy may be deduced from its conducting-power , with the aid of the percentage decrement in its conducting-power ; fourthly , the method which we have used for determining the class to which the metals belong in respect to the conducting-power of their alloys ; and fifthly , that the results which we have obtained and described in this memoir fully bear out the views put forward in a former one on the chemical nature of alloys .

