]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
, W. O.\mdash ; On the Diffusion of Metals .
Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , pp. 383-415 .
Alloys formed by Diffusion .
Roberts-Austen .
W. C. Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , pp. sion of Metals .
Solid and Liquid , Constants of .
Roberts-Austen , W. O. Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , pp. Gold , Diffusivity of , in Lead , \amp ; c. Roberts-Austen .
W. C. Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. , pp. 383-415 .
Lead , Diffusivity of Metals in Liquid and Solid .
Roberts-Austen , W. C. Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , pp. 883-415 .
Metals , Fluid and Solid , Diffusion of .
Roberts-Austen , W. C. Phil. Trans. A lS96 , vol. 187 , pp. 383-415 .
Molecular Movement in Liquid and Solid Metals .
Roberts-Austen , W. C. Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , pp. Osmotic Pressure in Liquid Metals and Solid Metals .
Roberts-Austen .
W. C. Phil. Trans. A 1896 , vol. 187 , pp. osmotic pressure of a salt in solution is measui.ed by the diffusion which takes place .
A of temperature , therefore , which augments the osmotic pressure , must : increase the rate of diffusion .
GRAHAM further pointed out that the inequality of diffusion which various saline substances exhibit at a low temperature , becomes less at a high temperature , and he therefore ncluded it would .
to be the effect of a high temperature to assimilate diffusibilities\ldquo ; of different salts .
* In the case of molten metals , the necessity for working at high :eratures , until quite recently could not be readily measured even approxlmate and the fear that the value of the results would be impaired by the action of conve tion currents , must have deterred physicists from eriments on the diffusion of molten .
OSTWALD'S statement with erence diffusion salts , that .
" " to make curate e xperiments on diff. sion one of problems practical physlcs , weJl ve glven rlse to doubts whether any method which seemed to be available for condu such metals would afford ustworthy results .
The difficulties obvious , but my lo connection with GRAHAM'S researches -made almost a to tend ' work on liquid diffusion to mc.tals , an therefOre , a the present , ) investigation was undertaken , but it was ' because I was unable to measure with sufficient accuracy the temperature , at took , and it has been durin'g the past two years .
As the history of subject , I brief cication own on the nobility of and silver in molten the ical Section British Associatio at the at in Septem er , 1 ie '- , th- , results of the first experiments were ever made with the direct object of the diffusion of molten metals and alloys , of -cury which / fluid at the temperate stated that " " while ) copper and antimony interpenetrate but slowly , the mobility of gold and si:lver in molten is WALD , utions , Trans. Boy .
: : .
PROFESSOR W. C. ROBERTS-AUSTEN ON THE DIFFUSION OF METALS .
385 mparatively rapid * As regards mercury and its fluid amalgams , the history is tpore extended , for in 1713 HOMBERG be said to have at least foreshadowed he Qion of metals , both solid and liquid , in his paper " " On Snbstances which l#euetrate and which pass through Metals without their being Melted He incintaUy showed , by experiment , the extreme rapidity with which mercury will netrate a bar of tin .
In November , 1883 , } THRIE published a remarkable paper " " On Certaiu Moleular Constants in which the diffusion of zinc , lead , tin , sodium , and potassium in mercury was studied , and he stated that these me , tals , which , of course , are much [ Jighter than mercury , " " appear after a month 's interval in appreciable quantity at a depth of a foot beneath the surface , when the temperature is about or He his paper by offering " " a general curve of amalgamation which he tlIought ould represent the late at which the metals examined by him alloy with mercury , this curve may also , he says , " " represent the relative rates of elementary atomic and molecular diffusion generally GUTHRIE held that as the mercury he employed was a good conductor of heat , there was not much fear of the disturbing influence of convection currents .
The existence of such currents , nevertheless , gave me much anxiety in the earlier experiments with molten metals whicf ] were begun in the year 1881 , and will now be described .
From the outset of this research both molten lead and bismuth were chosen as suitable fluids in which the diffusion of other metals could be studied .
Advantage ( was also taken of the fact that at temperatures well above bhe melting point , neither of these metals unite with iron .
The precious metals , also , when alloyed with lead or bismuth , do not show any tendency to unite with iron unless it is very clean and bright .
Tubes of wrought iron , therefore , proved to be most useful in conducting the inquiry .
In the first instance single tube filled with lead were arranged vertically in a bath of lead which was kept well above its point .
Weighed quantities of heated , but still solid , gold or platinum were then rapidly lowered through the lead in little covered receptacles of iron to the bottom of the tube , and when by the aid of a rigid steel wire the removal of the covers was gently effected , the gold was exposed to the lead ; it me rapidly dissolved .
and diffusion began .
The tubes filled with molten lead , in which diffusion took place , were about 200 millims. long , and many such tubes were arranged in a single bath , which was carefully kept hotter at the top than at the bottom so as to avoid as much as possible the carrying of the precious metal upwards by any streams of lead which might rise as convection currents from the bottom of the tube .
The main result of -AUSTEN , ' British Assooiation Report , ' 1883 , p. 402 .
HOnBERG , ' Mem. de l'Acad .
Royale des Sciences , ' 1713 ( vol. published 1739 ) , p. 306 .
GUTHRIE , ' Phil. Mag vol. 16 , 1883 , .
W. S. HUmPHREYS has recently made experiments on diffusion of zinc , lead , tin , bismuth , and copper in mercury .
'Trans .
Chem. Soc vol. 69 , 1896 , p. block , which can be adjusted so that external light , may be brought from either The focussing of the lens may be effected from outside the cam Plug conng tions are provided at the back of the instrument , and the wires , connect galvanometer with the thermo-junctions at the source of heat ; cold junctions interposed , as shown in fig. 4 , ] .
The photographic plate is secured to its slide by means of little cams , and the carrier is enclosed in case provided with a light-tight door , N. The case is held in position by a pin , P. The nection of the photographic plate with the driving clock is shown .
at D. sensitized plate moves in front of the slit , and is lifted by a weight actuating. .
fine clock , constructed by the well-known horologist , .
DAVID GLASGOW .
It be mentioned that the galvanometer stands on three plates , which ensure by providing the well-known combination of the " " hole " " slot and " " plane It be seen on reference to Plate 7 , fig. 2 , that in the centre of the cyhnder of iron which contains the diffusion tubes there is a central tube of metal Into this tube several thermo-junctions , , usually three in number , are to various depths .
Each thermo-junction is , as fig. 2 shows , suitably protected insulated by clay tubes .
These clay tubes nearly block up the inner space prevent the free circulation of and the four cold junctions with which communicate are shown in fig. 4 , Plate 7 .
These junctions are , by the aid of sw itch , fig. 4 , actuated by clockwork , placed in turn in communication with eflection onirror Mrature ounction aoment t $ffesions of Amalgams in Mercury.\mdash ; A number of experiments were made on the , at ordinary temperatures , of gold and other metals in mercury , which will included in a subsequent communication .
I may , however , mention , for the sake comparison , that the diffusivity of gold in mercury at !
C. is sq .
centim. ' day , the diffusivity of gold in lead being sq .
centims. per day at .
As ady stated , Dr. published in 1883 particulars of some experiments of kind , the metals he selected bein zinc , tin , lead , sodium , and potassium , using in mercury .
He did not make any calculations with a view to obtain either absolute or the relative diffusivities of these metals in mercury ; indeed , after the percentage of the diffusing metal in successive quantities of mercury , he rves : " " It is scarcely worth while dividing these diffusion percentages by the kcalled atomic weights of the metals His experiments were complicated by the that in some cases he employed solid metals instead of fluid amalgams , as the urce of the diffusing metal .
Approximate results have , however , been obtained his data , and from certain measurements of the original apparatus , now deposited the South Kensington Museum .
These show that his inference " " that potassium sodium have a far greater diffusive energy than the heavier metals examined\ldquo ; is thod given iresent pupported b ' xperiments.esults , calculated bhegive talues o insquarecentimetresperday , foHows : Tin in mercury at about . . . . . .
Lead , , , . . . . . .
1 Zinc , , , , . . . . .
Sodium , , , . . . . . . .
Potassium , , 040 . .
rS the iron solely to the action of gaseous carbonic oxide .
GAY LUSSAC* confessed at a study of the process shook his faith " " in the belief generally attributed to the ient chemists that corpora non agunt nisi soluta for it is certain , he adds , " " that bodies , solid , liquid , or aeriform , act upon each other , but , of the three states of , the solid state is the least favourable to the exercise of chemical affinity In1881 , M. A. COLSON communicated a paper to the Academy des Sciences , in hich he showed that when iron is heated in carbon there is a mutual interpenetration of carbon and iron at so low a temperature as .
The interpenetration of solids , as distinguished from the diffusion of two metals in each other , has received attention from many experimenters , of whose work brief mention will only be given , as the subject of this part of the paper is the diffusion of solid metals .
COLSON pointed out that pure silver diffuses as chloride in dry chloride of sodium , ' : he states that calcium passes into platinum when the latter is heated in lime , and that silica diffuses through carbon and yields its silicon to platinum .
The permeation of strongly heated porcelain by carbon has been demonstrated by MARSDEN , VIOLLE , and other experimenters .
SPRING , in 1885 , showed that solid barium sulphate and sodium carbonate react on each other until an equilibrium is established .
Any lingering doubt as to gas need necessarily intervene in the cemeniaof iron was , I may point out , removed by an experiment of my own , Sin 1889 .
lmhich showed that pure iron be carburized by dia.mond in vacuo , at a tempera : ture far below the melting point of iron and under conditions which absolutely preclude the presence or influence of occluded gas .
I am indebted to my friend , OSNOND , for a photograph ( from which fig. 6 is prepared ) of a section , oified diameters , through a piece of electro-iron , which had been heated to 1500o and .
Iarburized from the upper end by contact with the diamond form of carbol ] , and this fbtion clearly shows the gradual penetration of the iron by carbon .
The white grains the base are unchanged iron .
The beautiful work of OSMOND on the transforma : * ' Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys vol. 17 , 1846 , p. 221 .
Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 93 , 1881 , p. 1074 ; vol. 94 , 1882 , p. 26 .
' Bul ] .
de l'Acad .
Roy .
de Belgique , ' vol. 10 , 1885 , p. 204 .
S 'Nature , ' vol. 41 , 1889 , p. 14 .
PROFFSSOR W. C. ON THE DIFFUSION OF METALS .
413 Welding of Gold and Lead , Diffusion of Gold in Lead Ordinary Temperature .
: The fact that two clean surfaces of lead will weld together at the ordinary tembmparatively low temperatures that if the ends of small bars of gold or silver be burfaced , pressed against lead , and maintained for four days in vacuo at , tempera , ture bf only , the interpenetration of the two metals will be so complete that their Iseparation can only be effected by the application of a load of 70 .
per square inch the sectional area of the bars , or no less than of the breaking strain of lead .
It remains to be seen whether diffusion can be measured in solid lead at the ordinary temperature , and , with this object in view , cylinders have been prepared hnd set aside for future examination .
In searching for evidence of diffusion in solid metals at the ordinary temperature , it will be well to examine certain alloys used in art metal-work by the Japanese , who often employ an alloy of copper containing a small proportion of gold called , which is soldered or welded in alternate layers with pure copper .
The gold in the copper enables it to assume a beautiful purple patina when it is treated with suitable pickling solutions , which leave the pure copper of a red colour .
In this way very singular banded effects are produced .
Many of the specimens are centuries old , and I have attempted , by grinding away the existing patina and re-pickling the surface , to ascertain whether the widening of the coloured bands would show that , in the course of time , gold had diffused from the Shakudo layers and had passed into the copper .
I believe that there is evidence that it does do so , but the enquiry is full of difficulty , and needs training in micrography , of which my friend , M. OSMOND , is a master .
We propose to study this part of the subject together , and I only allude to it here because , if diffusion occurs in copper , silver , and gold at the ordinary temperature , results should- be revealed in the products of this ancient oriental art .
Gold in Solid Silver .
A short cylinder of silver , containing 20 per cent. of gold , was pressed against the carefully-surfaced end of a cylinder of pure silver , 1 centim. in diameter and centims. long .
These cylinders were kept in an annealing furnace for ten days , at a temperature which never exceeded , and was , therefore , below the melting point of silver .
The lowest melting point of the gold-silver series of alloys is .
The cylinder was then cut into sections in the usual way , and the amount of diffised gold determined by analysis .
As the temperature intermittent the true diffusivity cannot be taken , but I am satisfied that the of sOlid in solid silver at so is of the same order as that of gold in lead at .
It would PROFESSOR W. C. -AUSTEN ON THE DIFFUSION OF METALS .
415 The founder of this lectureship directed in 1768 that the subject be selected from uoh part of Natural History or Experimental Philosophy as the Council of the Royal Society shall be pleased to appoint and in the century which followed the of Mr. BAKER'S bequest , these branches of knowledge seemed to diverge widely .
investigation and measurement of molecula , movement has , however , gradually them in the closer union which GRAHAM did so much to effect .
His work in perimental physics , more than that of any other investigator , taught the #ysiologist that tracing the relations of the phenomena of life as in diffu , transpiration , and osmosis will afford Natural History its most precious records .
The evidence gathered by the metallurgist of active atomic movement in fluid and ssslid metals may sustain the hope of the siologist that he will ultimately be able measure the atomic movements upon which vitality and thought depend .

