I. An Extract of a Letter to Dr Edward Tyson from the Reverend Mr Charles Ellis , giving an Account of a young Lady , born Deaf and Dumb , taught to speak .
That Costerus first invented Printing , Anno 1430 .
Of the Physic Garden at Amsterdam , and the Chamber of Rarities at Boln .
Of a Monstrous Birth .
Of the Quarry at Maestricht .
Fr. Linus 's Dyals at Liege .
The Cachot or Rooms cut in the Rock of the Castle in Namur .
Sir Jo. Mandevil 's Tomb at Liege .
The Friesland Boy with Letters in his Eye .
Bruxelles 14 24 July , 1699 .
Most Honoured Doctor , AT Haerlem I visited Van Dalen , the Author de Oraculis ; he is setting forth another piece de Sacerdotio Veterum , a most Learned , Laborious , and very Instructive Work .
He showed me besides his own , a Curiosity of a young Lady born Deaf and Dumb , yet taught by Dr Amman to speak very intelligibly , I heard her read Dutch and Latin ; she is about 17 years old , the only Child of a Wealthy Merchant .
Here I was desirous to see the first Book Printed by Costerus , which Van Dalen himself had never seen , and with much trouble obtained to do it ; I find it not to be Donatus , as the Inscriptiones Hollandicae say , nor Virgil or Tully 's Offices , as others have acquainted the World ; but a Dutch piece of Theology , Printed on one side only of the Paper ; and after this is a single page of Latin entitled , Liber Vitae Alexandri Magni , which made some believe it to be Q. Curtius , but it is a Monkish Latin of that time .
This and the Theology were Printed in the year 1430 , whereas the Inscriptions and some other Authors have told us from Costerus 's Picture , that Printing was by him invented but Anno 1440 .
But a Picture of Costerus before another Dutch spiece ( bound up in the same Volumn and Printed 1432 ) bears the date of 1430 , under which Picture is the Inscription mentioned by Mr Ray , ( only the date x years sooner ) and the Tetrastic , which is transcribed by the Author of the Inscriptions from an Effigies of Costerus , which was then extant in a Garden this place , but is not now to be found .
I I was surprised at Amsterdam to see a most curious Physic Garden , admirably instructed , and in excellent order ; which because it has more space and foreign Plants , far exceeds Leyden .
Here are also Series Lectionum , which I have , and shall send ' em at your Command .
Our Travellers have not made much mention , as I know of , of these things , nor any at all of Boln , where is a Chamber well furnished with Rarities , considering there is no University , Schools nor Gardens , nor any Professors .
There are no Catalogues Printed in French or Latin , but when I have furnished my Memory with the help of a little Dutch , if you have not received any Account , I shall transcribe them by themselves , being too long for a Letter .
Besides these , there occurred here a Rarity not then publicly exposed , two Female Children joined together from the Neck to the Navel ; their Picture was with Arms embracing , and Legs twisted , all Parts and Joints entire to both , the Viscera too all double and perfect , the Head only single , but appertaining to both , and looking over the right Shoulder of one , and the left of the other .
They had been opened before I saw them ; I could not learn by the Mother or Father , whether the Aspera Arteria and Gula did not divide as they entered into the Stomach and Lungs , or whether they were continued separate , nor any account of the Brain ; they were born alive before 7 Months : The Father , John Ameston , a French Soldier , but deserted to this place .
He preserves them with the Skin and Muscles , by sponging them with spirit of Wine .
He asks 300 Guilders for 'em , too much for a Traveller to expend upon one thing .
At Maestricht I went into the Quarry , of which you have an Account in your Transactions , but it is more wonderful than there described , and more large , being 3 hours in length and one in ~ , and capable to shelter 100000 Men .
It cost me a fit of an Ague , thro its excessive Chillness .
The Stone dug from hence is much like our Kettering ; the Jesuits have here a very fine Chappel built of it .
Franciscus Linus 's Dyals at Liege , the Original of those formerly in our Privy Garden , are shamefully gone to decay , none remaining of use , but that which distinguishes the hours by feeling , and the Globe which shows it in all other parts of the World .
Here is but one in the Society that understands any thing of this matter , and he is endeavouring to make a Weather Dyal , that shall have a flux and reflux like the Sea , but it is yet brought to no perfection .
At Namur are no Curiosities , but Military , except only the Cachot cut in the Rock of the Castle , with Apartments for 600 Men , and all Rooms of use , as Kitchens , &amp;c. this was done by the order of Mareschal Boufflers to defend the Garrison from the Bombs , and was the labour of four years .
I forgot that at Liege is Sir John Mandevil 's Tomb , whose Epitaph is also at St Albans with us , which may be hard to be reconciled .
Sincemy coming to Bruxelles , I have seen a young Friesland Boy of about 5 years old , round the Pupil of whose Eye they pretend is naturally engraven Deus Meus , and the same in Hebrew .
This is looked upon as a prodigious Miracle in these parts ; but upon nice surveying it , I could perceive it was only the Iris of the Eye , not circularly joined , but lashed out into Fimbriae , which here and there might be thought to form some imaginary Letters ; as beginning at the Lacrymal corner of the left Eye , there is something like D &amp; I &amp; V , but not a footstep for the strongest fancy to work out any more , nor any Letter of Hebrew in the right Eye , as they pretended .
I do n't doubt , but as the Boy grows up , the others may conjoin again : But it was like to have been of danger to me to have discovered~ this matter in these superstitious Countries ; for acquainting a Gentleman in English of this Cheat , one of the Mob happened to understand it , and I was forced to make the best of my way .
In another Letter from the Hague , dated June 16 .
1699 .
The same Person writes that at this place there are very few natural Curiosities ; but a piece of Art , that of its sort I believe never was paralleled , which is performed by one Elizabeth Pyberg , who cuts in Paper not only Towns , as Loo and Hounslerdyke , but Faces to an extreme likeness ; She has done King William and Q. Mary better than any Limner I ever saw , and refuses 1000 Gilders for the pieces , it is so curious that I could not believe the Queen 's Drapery not to be Point , till I had most exquisitely enquired into it .

