XI .
Mr. Henry Baker F. R. S. to Martin Folks , Esq ; Pres. of the Royal Soc. concerning the same .
A BOUT 40 Minutes after 5 o'Clock this Morning I was waked out of a sound Sleep by a great Noise , hardly to be described , but what seemed then to me as if the Roof of the House was tumbling in , or like the rumbling I have sometimes heard Thunder make before a very loud Clap .
It continued 2 or 3 Seconds , as nearly as I could guess , under the Surprise of being awaked so suddenly ; during which time the Windows rattled , the Tables , Chairs , and other Furniture in the Room , shook greatly ; and a brass Warming-pan , in particular , that stood upon a marble Slab before the Chimney , made a very remarkable ringing and jarring Noise .
Read March 8 .
1749-50 .
Two Maids , in a Room over mine , were also waked by it , and got up immediately , being frighted by the shaking of the Bed on which they lay ; but for my own part I felt little or no Motion of my own Bed .
However , as most People who were in Bed agree in describing such a Motion , it was probably that which waked me , tho ' the Violence of it might be over , before I was sufficiently awake to take due notice of it .
My Son was likewise waked by the great rattling of the Windows in his Chamber , which he at first imagined to be shaken by a high Wind , they being apt to make some Noise in windy Weather , tho ' never like what he then heard , which seemed like opening a Casement-Window and shutting it again very suddenly and violently .
A Cat that lay upon his Bed started up in much Surprise .
Several People in the Neighbourhood went out into the Streets , and others got upon the Leads of their Houses , to see if any Damage was done .
Some Milk-women felt it very strongly as they were milking their Cows near Maribone .
It was violent in Bond-street , and all that Quarter of the Town ; and I find , by People living in very different and distant Parts of London and Westminster , that it was felt universally through the Whole , and was not only longer in Continuance , but that its Motion was more violent and shocking than the Earthquake , which happened on Feb. 8 .
( this Day was four Weeks ) a hasty Account of which I had the Honour to lay before you .
A Waterman that was lying in his Boat , then at Anchor near Kingston , told a Friend of mine , that he was frighted with something like a violent Blow striking against the Bottom of the Boat ; that the Water was much agitated , and that the Barges and other Vessels upon the River were tossed about as in a Tempest .
These , Sir , are all the Particulars yet come to my Knowlege ; which , tho ' put together in a Hurry , may , I hope , prove acceptable .
I shall only add , that I have the Honour to be , SIR , Catherine-street , Your most obedient humble Servant , March 8 .
1749-50 .
Henry Baker .

