100 cator , the other allowed the currents of the thermo-elements to pass either so as to strengthen , or so as to oppose each other .
The foregoing experiments were carried out in the Physical Cabinet at Heidelberg , under the direction of Professor Kirchhoff , to whose advice and assistance I am much indebted .
III .
" A Memoir on the Theory of Matrices .
" By ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1857 .
[ Abstract .
] The term matrix might be used in a more general sense , but in the present memoir I consider only square and rectangular matrices , and the term matrix used without qualification is to be understood as meaning a square matrix ; in this restricted sense , a set of quantities arranged in the form of a square , e. go ( a , , c ) ta ' , b'\ c ' |a 6 " , b " , c " is said to be a matrix .
The notation of such a matrix arises naturally from an abbreviated notation for a set of linear equations , viz. the equations X= ax by +c Y=a'x+ ' B'y+c ' Z =a"x + 6"y c " may be more simply represented by ( X , Y , Z)=( a , , c X , y , z ) a ' , b ' , c ' a " , b " , c " and the consideration of such a system of equations leads to most of the fundamental notions in the theory of matrices .
It will be seen that matrices ( attending only to those of the same degree ) comport themselves as single quantities ; they may be added , multiplied , or compounded together , &amp;c. : the law of the addition of matrices is precisely similar to that for the addition of ordinary algebraical quantities ; as regards their multiplication ( or composition ) , there is the peculiarity that matrices are not in general convertible ; it is nevertheless possible to form the powers ( positive or negative , integral or 101 fractional ) of a matrix , and thence to arrive at the notion of a rational and integral function , or generally of any algebraical function of a matrix .
I obtain the remarkable theorem that any matrix whatever satisfies an algebraical equation of its own order , the coefficient of the highest power being unity , and those of the other powers functions of the terms of the matrix , the last coefficient being in fact the determinant .
The rule for the formation of this equation may be stated in the following condensed form , which will be intelligible after a perusal of the memoir , viz. the determinant , formed out of the matrix diminished by the matrix considered as a single quantity involving the matrix unity , will be equal to zero .
The theorem shows that every rational and integral function ( or indeed every rational function ) of a matrix may be considered as a rational and integral function , the degree of which is at most equal to that of the matrix , less unity ; it even shows that in a sense , the same is true with respect to any algebraical function whatever of a matrix .
One of the applications of the theorem is the finding of the general expression of the matrices which are convertible with a given matrix .
The theory of rectangular matrices appears much less important than that of square matrices , and I have not entered into it further than by showing how some of the notions applicable to these may be extended to rectangular matrices .
IV .
" A Memoir on the Automorphic Linear Transformation of a Bipartite Quadric Function .
" By ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1857 .
[ Abstract .
] The question of the automorphic linear transformation of the function x +y2+ z2 , that is the transformation by linear substitutions , of this function into a function x+ +y,2+ z_2 of the same form , is in effect solved by some formulae of Euler 's for the transformation of coordinates , and it was by these formulae that I was led to the solution in the case of the sum of n squares , given in my paper " Sir quelques proprietes des determinants gauches , " Crelle , t. xxxii .
pp. 119-123 ( 1846 ) .
A solution grounded upon an a-priori

