66 Dr. A. Ransom .
On certain Conditions that [ Dec. 18 , paramitoma of the liver cells the following anaplastic and kataplastic products maybe demonstrated easily:\#151 ; serous fluid ( vacuoles ) bile pigment , pigment containing iron , glycogen , fat , \amp ; c. [ It is to be remembered that , soon after the discovery of lobules in the pig 's liver by Wepfer ( 1664 ) , Malpighi ( 1666 ) described these lobules as being appended to the extremities of the vessels contained in Glisson 's capsule .
Ferrein ( 1749 ) showed that the liver , like other glands of the body , had a tubular structure ; but , as he included the spleen among the tubular glands , it may be doubted whether he did more than generalise on the basis of his observations on the kidney .
Three years before the publication of Kiernan 's paper , Muller seems to have noticed the pinnate arrangement to which I have given the name of " portal lines of divergencebut there can be little doubt as to the general acceptance of Kiernan 's views after the publication of his observations in 1883 ( 'Philosophical Transactions ' ) .
The work of Kiernan was in great part based on the result of injections through the vessels .
For an account of the history of the subject , I would refer the reader to Kieman 's admirable paper , in which a great many points which I have purposely left aside will be also found mentioned.\#151 ; Dec. 17 , 1890 .
] IV- " On certain Conditions that modify the Virulence of the Bacillus of Tubercle .
" By Arthur Ransom , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 29 , 1890 .
It is acknowledged by most pathologists that tubercular sputum , dried up and broken into dust , is the most common vehicle by which the bacillus of tubercle is conveyed into the body .
But its power for evil is obviously modified by a multitude of conditions , some of them inherent in the animal body exposed to infection , others due to external influences .
Judging from the facts relating to the distribution of tubercular disease , its incidence in certain localities , and especially its prevalence *in badly drained , badly ventilated , and imperfectly lighted dwellings , it has been surmised that the three chief external conditions that mitigate the virulence of the bacillus are : ( 1 ) a dry soil ( 2 ) abundance of fresh air , and ( 3 ) light .
But hitherto , few , if any , direct experiments have been made to determine the extent to which these several influences possess mitigating powers .
It is true that Dr. Candler , in his work on the Prevention of Consumption , affirms that light is the chief agent in destroying the ' 1890 .
] modify the Virulence of the Bacillus of Tubercle .
67 bacillary- virus , and Professor Koch , in bis address to the International Congress at Berlin this year , lends the weight of his great authority to the same opinion ; but , in neither case , is any proof given of the truth of this view.* j It was in order to test the influence of light , air , and dry soils upon the virulence of the bacillus of tubercle that the following series of | experiments were devised .
It was decided to expose tuberculous sputum :\#151 ; ( a ) In a locality ( Bowdon ) where the soil was dry and sandy !
( about 100 feet in thickness ) and where very few cases of phthisis \ were known to have originated .
It was to be placed in full daylight or sunlight , and exposed to abundant streams of fresh country air .
( b ) A portion of the same sputum would be exposed under similar conditions , in the same place , with the exception that it would be put into a darkened chamber .
( c ) A third portion would be taken to a small four-roomed tenement in Manchester , on a clay soil , without cellarage\#151 ; and badly ventilated , but it would be placed on the window ledge , with as much light as could there be obtained .
( d ) A portion would be placed in the same cottage , but in a dark comer of a sleeping room in which it was known that three deaths from phthisis had occurred within the space of six or seven years .
( e ) Finally , a portion would be exposed to used air coming from a ward in a Consumption Hospital , in Bowdon , in darkness .
These intentions were fully carried out .
* Two collections of sputum were obtained :\#151 ; A. From a woman dying of phthisis , collected on April 25 .
This specimen contained comparatively few bacilli .
B. Also from a woman in an advanced stage of phthisis , collected on April 27 .
This sputum contained abundance of bacilli .
Sputum ( A ) was not considered to be very suitable for the purpose owing to the sparseness of bacilli ; but it was decided to use it by way of control experiment ; owing to an accident , the portions exposed under conditions ( c ) and ( d ) were lost .
These collections of sputum were divided into portions and placed in watch glasses marked A. 1 , A. 2 , A. 3 , B. 1 , . . .
, B 10 .
Some of these watch glasses were exposed without further arrangement , but others , where there might be a possibility of infection , were enclosed in cages , so arranged that air could reach them through a [ Since this was written , I have learnt that Savitzky has ascertained that | p thisical sputum , exposed " at the ordinary room temperature , and generally under ftll common life conditions , " retains its infectiousness not longer than 2J months , and , other conditions being equal , a sputum dried in darkness loses its infectious properties within the same period as a sputum exposed to light .
' Med. Chronicle , ' f Nov. 1890 , p. 117 .
] 68 Dr. A. Ransom .
On certain Conditions that [ Dec. 18 , thin layer of cotton wool , one kind of cage being constructed of two squares of glass , supported at their edges by cork , and surrounded by cotton wool , the other of small flasks the bottom of which had been cut off , and the lower edge resting in a small circular tray fitted with wool , the mouths of the flasks being also loosely stuffed with the wool .
These watch glasses were then exposed for five weeks under the conditions already noted , commencing on April 29 , 1890 , with the exception of B. 9 and 10 , which were started on May 2 .
Most of the specimens were withdrawn on June 3 ; but one , B. 10 , was divided on May 13 , and a portion , B. 10a .
, was introduced into a glass bulb and exposed for several minutes each day to a current of ozonised oxygen .
All the specimens were then enclosed in a box and forwarded to the Pathological Laboratory , Owens College , where Dr. Dreschfeld , the Professor of Pathology , had kindly undertaken to carry out the necessary inoculations .
Owing to various causes , some of these operations were not commenced until June 27 , 1890 , others until July 10 .
The animals used were rabbits , kept under favourable hygienic conditions .
The dried sputum was mixed with sterilised water , to form a pasty mass , and this was inserted into the subcutaneous tissue of the back .
All the instruments used were made thoroughly aseptic .
The following tables give :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The conditions of exposure .
( 2 ) The date of inoculation .
( 3 ) The date of death , by killing or otherwise .
( 4 ) Dr. Dreschfeld 's report upon the results of the inoculation .
1890 .
] modify the Virulence of the Bacillus of Tubercle .
69 Table I.\#151 ; Influence of Dry Soil , Air , and Light .
No. of Conditions of exposure .
Dote of speci- men .
Inocula- tion .
Death .
Dr. Dreschfeld 's reports .
A. 1 In outdoor studio , Bowdon .
In light and free ventilation in flask arrangement June 27 Killed Sept. 4 Babbit in good condition ; wound completely healed , cicatrix of wound scarcely visible .
All inserted sputum completely disappeared , only a few pigmented streaks left , no caseation ; internal organs healthy .
A. 2 Ditto , open watch-glass July 10 Killed Sept. 4 In good condition ; wound healed , good cicatrix , no caseous mass .
In liver a number of disseminated firm spots ; microscopically , these consisted of fibrous tissue ; no tubercle bacilli found in them .
B. 6 Ditto in cotton wrool cage July 10 Killed Sept. 4 In good condition ; cicatrix healed , no trace of sputum left , no caseation where sputum had been inoculated , only a few pigmented streaks .
B .1 Ditto in open cage until May 9 , then cotton wool added July 10 Killed Sept. 4 Q-ood condition ; cicatrix perfect , some fibrous induration in subcutaneous tissue where sputum had been ; no caseation ; internal organs healthy .
Dr. A. Ransom .
On certain Conditions that [ Dec. 18 , Table II.\#151 ; Influence of Dry Soil , Air , and Darkness .
No. of Conditions of exposure .
Date of speci- men .
Inocula- tion .
Death .
Dr. Dreschfeld 's reports .
A. 3 In darkened photographic room , Bow-don , in watch-glass June 27 Killed Sept. 4 Babbit in good condition , small caseous mass beneath healed wound ; all internal organs healthy .
Microscopic examination of caseous mass.\#151 ; Granular detritus , no tubercle bacilli .
B. 8 Ditto in cotton wool cage June 27 Died Aug. 26 Moderately emaciated ; wound healed , but the edges separated on pulling the skin at the sides .
In the subcutaneous tissue beneath the wound a few yellowish , soft spots , about the size of pin-heads , surrounded by a zone of hypersemia .
Internally all organs healthy , no signs of tubercle , right heart full of blood , left heart empty .
Microscopic examination of the yellow spots shows them to consist of granular detritus and a few granule cells ; no tubercle bacilli could be detected .
B. 9 Under ward of Consumptive Hospital in full ventilation , in darkness , in cotton wool cage July 10 Died Aug. 14 Emaciated ; wound healed under a scab , a thin mass of yellow caseous material just beneath the skin .
Heart and lungs healthy ; kidneys contained a number of small cysts .
In the caseous mass a few tubercle bacilli were found .
1890 .
] modify the Virulence of the Bacillus of Tubercle .
Table III.\#151 ; Influence of Clay Soil , Bad Air , and Light .
Ifo .
of Conditions of exposure .
Date of speci- men .
Inocula- tion .
Death .
Dr. Dresclifeld 's reports .
B. 3 On window-sill of small cottage bedroom in Ancoats .
Flask arrangement June 27 Died Aug. 14 * Large rabbit ; emaciated .
Inoculation wound completely healed , slight scab ; no caseous material or any signs of sputum .
Internal organs healthy ; one white spot found on surface of liver .
Microscopic examination of this showed it to consist of round cells , some with one nucleus and others which were polynuclear .
At the periphery of the nodule , fibrous tissue .
Sections of the nodule showed no tubercle bacilli .
B. 4 Ditto in open watch-glass | July 10 Died Aug. 9 Emaciated , wound at back not healed , and appeared slightly sloughing at the borders .
Lungs presented several small caseous nodules ; pleura , heart , peritoneum , liver healthy .
Tubercle bacilli found in the caseous lung nodules .
72 Bacillus of Tubercle .
[ Dec. 18 , Table IV.\#151 ; Influence of Clay Soil , Bad Air , and Darkness .
No. of Conditions of exposure .
Date of speci- men .
Inocula- tion .
Death .
Dr. Dreschfeld 's reports .
B. 1 On dark shelf by fireplace in small cottage bedroom in Ancoats .
Flask arrangement June 27 Killed Sept. 4 Rabbit in good condition ; wound completely healed , no caseation , and only a small pigmented spot where the sputum had been deposited ; all the internal organs healthy .
B. 5 Ditto in a dark corner near the bed .
In watch-glass July 10 Killed Sept. 4 Rabbit in good condition ; cicatrix where the wound was , and beneath it a caseous mass about the size of a bean .
Examined microscopically , this mass contained tubercle bacilli .
Nothing abnormal in any of the organs .
1 Table V.\#151 ; Influence of Dry Soil , Bad Air , and Darkness No. of specimen .
Conditions of exposure .
Date of Dr. Dreschfeld 's reports .
Inocula- tion .
Death .
B. 10 Cotton wool cage , in ventilating shaft from ward of Consumption Hospital ... for ten days , then placed on top of bookcase in sitting-room July 10 Died Aug. 14 Emaciated ; wound healed under a scab .
A yellow caseous mass about the size of a small pea beneath the scab .
The liver presented a few yellowish nodules ; All the other organs sound .
In the caseous mass a few tubercle bacilli were found ; none in the liver .
B. 10 A portion of the above was taken on the tenth day and exposed to a current of ozonised oxygen for a few minutes daily for a fortnight July 10 Killed Sept. 4 Rabbit fairly well nourished ; cicatrix quite healed , no trace of inoculated matter , and no trace of caseation .
In the left lung one firm nodule ; this was carefully examined microscopically and showed no bacilli .
It was apparently only thickened pleura .
Presents .
1890 .
] It will be seen that none of the fonr specimens of sputum exposed to fresh air and light on a dry soil conveyed the disease , but one of the three portions exposed under similar conditions in darkness produced tubercle .
Of the two exposed in the cottage in Ancoats in the light one produced tubercle , and of the two specimens exposed in the same place , in comparative darkness , one caused tubercle , the other did not .
Lastly , the specimen placed in the ventilating shaft from a ward in the Consumption Hospital , Bowdon , on a dry soil , conveyed the disease , and the portion removed from it after ten days and exposed to the action of ozonised oxygen did not produce tubercle .
These experiments are too few in number to justify the statement of positive conclusions , but , so far as they extend , they go to prove that fresh air and light and a dry sandy soil have a distinct influence in arresting the virulence of the tubercle bacillus ; that darkness somewhat interferes with this disinfectant action ; but that the mere exposure to light in otherwise bad sanitary conditions does not destroy the virus .
There are also some indications that the presence of a cotton wool envelope may interfere somewhat with the action for good or evil of both good and bad air respectively .
Further observations are now being made with sputum exposed by Professor Tyndall at Bel Alp , Switzerland , in light and darkness , each kind for 10 days and 14 days respectively , and compared with the same sputum exposed in the same cottage in Ancoats .
The pathological results of these specimens have not yet been made out .
The results will be given in a future note .
The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 8tb , 1891 .
Bresents , December 18 , 1890 .
Transactions .
Batavia:\#151 ; Koninklijke Natuurkundige Vereeniging .
Natuur-kundig Tijdschrift .
Deel XLIX .
8vo .
Batavia 1890 .
The Society .
Bergen:\#151 ; Museum .
Aarsberetning .
1889 .
8vo .
Bergen 1890 .
The Museum .
Bern:\#151 ; Naturforsehende Gesellscnaft .
Mittheilungen .
1889 .
8vo .
Bern 1890 .
The Society .
Birmingham:\#151 ; Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Vol. VII .
Part 1 .
8vo .
Birmingham \#163 ; 1890 ] .
The Society .
Chapel Hill:\#151 ; Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society .
Journal .
1890 .
Parts 1-2 .
8vo .
Raleigh ( N. Carolina ) .
The Society .

