03^ SeScOlb .
Phil. Irons .
L.T. ^son.\amp ; Scotl , * 53 i^T'r-# .
* JW fi \ \#166 ; Rpi^ ii Fig 5 .
,311\#174 ; 1\#187 ; Arsl \#166 ; W iSspat ; B5^ / y\gt ; -vA u\gt ; :^i \gt ; F ) \ A , %h \#166 ; # V k"^r\#151 ; i BP .
K ?
\#163 ; I ^ .
W .
ft PH pH or JJz 'HZ-U'1 ' .
' " V A ?
C y i Y xYl^TfJ A^rN Xv -X - ; 4-r\gt ; \\gt ; .
' , { - ' c^ *'3 , v " V MA } n$\gt ; 1 mx .C uu-\lt ; Fig. 11 .
\gt ; XVI .
Further Observations on the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures.\#151 ; Part II .
The Roots of Calamites .
By W. C. Williamson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Emeritus Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester , and D. H. Scott , M.A. , Ph. D. } F.R.S. , Honorary Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens Received October 31 , \#151 ; Read November 15 , 1894 .
[ Plates 15-17 .
] Introduction .
Until quite recently our knowledge of the roots of the Calamites has been very scanty and limited to such characters as can .
be seen with the naked eye , in specimens preserved as casts and impressions .
Lindley and Hutton , * in 1833 , figured a Calamite with two branching roots , inserted immediately above the nodes of the stem in which they were borne , besides other more doubtful specimens of the same kind.t Many similar casts have been observed by more recent investigators .
Grand ' Eury , for example , has figured numerous specimens of Catamites , bearing roots , both on their rhizomes and their upright stems .
So far as his figures show , the roots are always inserted exactly at the nodes .
] ; C. E. Weiss has given an excellent account of the external appearance and arrangement of Calamitean roots , with extremely clear figures .
S In some of the specimens which he has illustrated the insertion of the verticillate roots on the nodes of the stem is quite evident .
The central cylinder of the roots can be easily traced and is seen to be continuous with the vascular bundles at the node.|| In other cases the * * * S * ' Fossil Flora of Great Britain , ' vol. 1 , Plates 78 and 79 .
t See also Williamson , ''Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures , " Part I. , 1871 , ' Phil. Trans. , ' Plate 28 , fig. 35 .
+ Grand ' Eury , ' Flore carbonifere du dept , de la Loire , ' 1877 , Plates 1 , 2 , and 3 .
S C. E. Weiss , " Steinkohlen-Calamai-ien , " Part I. , 1870 , and Part If .
, 1884 ; published in ' Abhand-lungen sir geologischen Specialkarte von Preussen .
' || See especially Part II .
, Plate 2 , fig. 2 .
18.12.95 roots are grouped in tufts , which arise at , or immediately above , the nodes , and close to the insertion of lateral branches.* Stur , in his account of the roots of Catami , mentions one point of considerable interest.t He finds that the woody cylinder of the root is not always median , but is often laterally displaced , showing that it was freely movable within the outer cortical envelope .
This fact finds its explanation now that we know that the middle cortex of Calamitean roots was traversed by large lacunae , and would thus offer little resistance to the displacement of the central cylinder .
Stur mentions that some of the roots observed by him bear rootlets , while others do not .
He is disposed to regard the latter as floating roots , the former as having grown in the soil .
A fine specimen of a Calamitean stem , showing clearly the insertion of the roots exactly on the nodes , has been figured by Renault.| From the sources mentioned , as well as from others , we thus have a general idea of the external characters of the adventitious roots of Catamites , and of their arrangement on the stem .
It is only quite recently , however , that we have acquired any exact knowledge of their structure .
As mentioned in our former paper , S Renault has now found decisive proof that certain fossils formerly described under the name of Astromyelon\\ are identical with the roots of Catamites , thus confirming the conclusion at which he had already arrived in the year 1885.1 Relation of Root and Stem .
The evidence for the fact that roots with the structure of Astromyelon were borne on Calamitean stems , depends at present on the discoveries of Renault , who in his latest work repeatedly figures such roots in direct connection with the stem ol his Arthropitys(our Catamites ) as well as of Calamodendron and Bornia.'*1 ' * See Part II .
, Plate 8 , fig. 1 , and Plate 9 , fig. 1 .
t D. Stur , " Die Calamarien der Carbon-Flora der Schatzlarer Schicliten , " 1887 , p. 1 ; published in ' Abhandlungen der Kaiserlich-Koniglichen Geologischen Reichsanstalt .
' Vienna .
X Renault et Zeiller , ' Flore houilliere de Commentry , ' Part II .
, Plate 57 , fig. 1 .
S Williamson and Scott , " Further Observations on the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures , " Part I. , p. 899 , ' Phil. Trans. , ' B. , 1894 .
|| Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, 1878 , p. 319 ; Part XII .
, 1883 , p. 459 .
Hick and Cash , " Flora of the Lower Coal-Measures of Halifax , " Part III .
, 1881 , and Part IV .
, 1884 ; published in ' Proc. Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnic Society , ' vols .
7 and 8 .
Their specimens are named by them Myriophylloides ; the question of the identification of the latter with will be consideitd below .
See also Renault , " Vegetaux fossiles du genre , " 'Ann .
des Sci. Geol .
, ' vol. 17,1885 .
" Nouvelles Recherches sir le genre Astromyelon , " ' Mem. de la Soc. des Sci. Not .
de Saone tt Loire , ' 1885 .
** Renault , " Flore fossile du bassin houillier et permien d'Autun et d'llpinac , ' Part IL , 1894 , published in ' Etudes des Gites Mineraux de la France .
' See especially Plates 42 , 43 , 44 , o3 , o4 , 55 , 59 .
The text of this memoir has not yet appeared .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
685 Among our own specimens , which Renault regards as specifically distinct from his own , such evidence is scanty .
In one case , however , we believe that the connection between root and stem is distinctly shown .
The sections numbered C.N. 1351\#151 ; C. N. 1355 ( see Plate 15 , photographs 1 and 2 ) , in the Williamson Collection , were all cut from the same specimen .
They are all approximately tangential sections of the wood of a main axis , on which lateral roots* are borne .
Three of these roots are cut through transversely on their way out through the wood .
Two of them are placed side by side , and appear in the same section ( C.N. 1355 ) .
All three exhibit the typical structure of the larger specimens of \#151 ; a considerable pith ( which has been bored by Stigmarian rootlets , but was probably solid in life ) , a ring of centripetal xylem-groups ( 10 to 12 in number ) , and a zone of secondary wood , which is connected with that of the parent axis ( see photograph 1 ) .
There can be no doubt that the specimen shows the attachment of the roots to a main axis of some kind .
The question to be solved is , whether this main axis was itself a root or a stem .
This question appears to be decided by one of the sections ( C.N. 1353 ; see Photograph 2 ) , which distinctly shows three of those " lenticular organs , " or enlarged medullary rays , which are so characteristic of the stem of Catamites , in its infranodal regions , but which , so far as we know , are entirely absent from the roots themselves , t A t two points , also , the transverse sections of outgoing leaf-trace bundles can be distinguished .
Photograph 2 shows one of the " lenticular organs , " and one of the leaf-traces , which is especially clear .
These facts demonstrate that the section passes through a node , and therefore that the axis is a stem .
This conclusion is further strengthened by the fact that immediately above the node we find the base of a branch ( probably abortive ) which is thus in the normal position for branches of the stem of Catamites.\ This specimen may therefore safely be regarded as affording additional evidence that organs with " Astromyelon " structure , were borne on Calamitean stems .
The nature of the organs hitherto known under the name of Astromyelon , is now so far established that we know them to have been appendages of the stem of Catamites ( Artfiropitys of the French authors ) .
Renault has shown that very similar appendages , also showing the Astromyelon type of structure , were produced on the stems of Bornia and Calamodendron.\ So far as our English specimens of " Astromyelon " are concerned , we have no reason to doubt that they all belonged to the genus Catamites , though it is very probable that various species may be represented among them .
The direct evidence of continuity applies only to the larger specimens , such as those originally described , in which there is a conspicuous pith.jj * The proof that these organs are , morphologically , roots , will be fully given below .
t See our previous memoir , " Further Observations , " \amp ; c. , Part I. , p. 887 ; also Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, p. 325 .
t See our " Further Observations , " Part I. , pp. 890 and 893 .
S Loc .
cit. , " Flore fossile d'Autun , " Part II .
, Plates 4 and 43 , 59 and 60 .
|| See Willtamson , " Organization , " Part IX , Plate 19 , tigs .
1-7 .
686 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE The smaller specimens , such as those which were first described by Hick and Cash under the name Myriophylloides* but have since been united with , t were no doubt branches of the larger organs , as will be shown below .
Structure of the Roots .
We have now to consider in detail the structure of these appendages , with special reference to those points by which their morphological nature has been established .
That they were quite different from the ordinary branches of a Calainitean stem became obvious as soon as their organization was understood . !
Their characteristic lacunar cortex , the entire absence of nodes , the usually solid pith , and the absence of canals accompanying the vascular bundles , all serve to distinguish them .
That these organs were of the nature of roots could , however , only be established by a minute investigation of their structure and mode of development , so far as the latter could be ascertained .
We hope that , by our observations , we have been able to add something to the evidence already brought forward by Renault , who recognizes most of these organs as true roots , though in certain cases he prefers to regard them as " stolons."S The characters ( likely to be traceable in petrified specimens ) on which we have to depend in distinguishing a root from a stem , are the following:\#151 ; 1 .
Centripetal development of the primary xylem .
2 .
Alternate arrangement of the primary groups of xylem and phloem .
3 .
Endogenous mode of origin of the organ itself , and of its branches .
4 .
Absence of nodes .
Though no one of these characters is necessarily conclusive by itself , the sum of them is sufficient to determine with certainty the root-nature of the organ .
In describing the structure it will be best to begin with the typical specimens , possessing a well-marked medulla , such as those which have been found in direct connection with Calamitean stems .
We will afterwards pass on to the more minute specimens , many of them destitute of any evident pith , which we regard as the rootlets , or finer branches , of the same organs .
The largest specimen in the collection is one figured in a previous memoir.|| This is somewhat compressed , and measures , in its decorticated condition , about 25 millims. in greatest and II millims. in least diameter .
The pith is hollow , and this is the only specimen in which , from the definite inner limit of the persistent peripheral portion of the medulla , it appears probable that the latter was really fistular during life .
In * * * S * Loc.cit .
, ' Proc. Yorkshire Geol .
and Polytechnic Soc. , ' vol. 7 , 1881 .
f By Williamson , " Organization , " Part XII .
, 1883 .
t Williamson , loc. cit. , Parts IX .
and XII .
S Loc .
cit. , " Flore fossile d'Autun , " \amp ; c. , Part II .
, Plates 55 , 56 , 57 , 59 , 60 .
II Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 19 , fig. 5 ; C.N. 1334 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
687 all other specimens the pith is either solid , or , if hollow , there is every appearance of the cavity being due to decay or to the intrusion of Stigmarian rootlets.* The pith varies enormously in size in the different specimens , and may only consist of three or four cells , as seen in transverse sections , while in the smallest rootlets it disappears altogether .
Except in these extreme cases the structure is fairly uniform in all .
The pith consists of rather large-celled parenchyma , and presents no peculiarities ( see Plate 16 , figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
It is surrounded by a ring of primary xylem-groups , varying in number from 25 downwards .
When the pith is large the xylem-bundles are usually separated from one another by broad primary rays ( see Plate 15 , photographs 1 and 3 ) ; when it is small the bundles may be nearly in contact with one another , and in the latter case their limits may be somewhat difficult to trace .
The presence , however , of these primary groups of xylem is absolutely constant , and their structure is always essentially the same .
Each group , as seen in transverse section , has an approximately triangular form , with one angle directed outwards ( see Plate 16 , figs. 1 and 2).t It consists of a varying number of tracheides , of which there are often about 20 .
The elements become smaller towards the peripheral angle , and it is constantly at the angle itself that the most minute tracheide is situated ( figs. 1 and 2 , px .
) .
In accurately transverse sections , if the cells of the pith have rather thick walls , it may not be easy to distinguish them from the primary tracheae .
With care , however* this can always be done , in good preparations .
Wherever the section is at all oblique , the primary tracheae can be recognized with ease by the pits on their walls .
The arrangement of the tracheae at once suggests , even from the inspection of transverse sections alone , that the development of each group of primary xylem was centripetal , the small tracheae at the external angle representing the protoxylem , or first-formed elements .
This conclusion is rendered certain by the examination of oblique and longitudinal sections , in which we find that the smallest and most external elements of the primary xylem are spirally thickened .
This , for example , is beautifully shown in the radial section ( C.N. 1317 ) a part of which is represented in fig. 3 .
The spiral protoxylem-tracheae are quite unmistakable , both at the place figured , and at several other points in the section .
Similar observations have been made by Renault , who has shown clearly that the development of the primary wood was centripetal in his specimens , which he refers to different species from ours .
J We find that the spiral tracheides are few , and their spirals densely coiled , a peculiarity characteristic of the root in recent plants , and due to the shortness of its growing region .
( See de Bary , " Comp. Anat .
, " p. 352 .
) * See Williamson , .** Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 19 , figs. 1\#151 ; 7 ; Part XII .
, Plates 27 and 28 , figs. 2 , 3 , and 6 ; also Photographs 1 , 3 , 4 , 6 , and 7 in the present paper .
t See also Williamson , " Organization , " Part I. , Plate 25 , fig. 16 ; Part XII .
, Plate 27 , fig. 3 .
t Renault , " Recherches sir les Vegetaux fossiles da Genre , " ' Annals des Sciences Geologises , ' vol. 17 , 1885 ; see p. 12 , Plate 8 , fig. 8 , \amp ; c. ; ' Flore fossile d'Autun , " Part II .
, Plate 57 , fig- 7 , \amp ; ( ! .
688 PROFESSOR W. 0 .
WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE The elements which adjoin the actual protoxylem on the inner side are often reticulated .
Further towards the interior the primary tracheae become considerably larger , and have pitted walls , the pits being often transversely elongated , so as to give a scalariform character to the thickening ( fig. 3 ) .
Some of the pits show a slight border . .
The primary tracheae have very oblique terminal walls , which are pitted like the lateral walls ; there is no reason to doubt that these elements were closed tracheides , and not open vessels .
The primary xylem-groups , then , were evidently developed cent ripe tally , and so far agree with those of recent roots .
The primary strands of phloem can of course only be recognized in the most favourable preparations .
A good example is represented in fig. 1 , which is drawn from a section previously figured as a whole.* The specimen is the original one of " Myriophylloides Williamsoni"described by Hick and Cash in 1881 , and another transverse section of it is figured in the memoir by those authors . !
Neither of the former figures , however , show either the phloem or the primary xylem .
The details are remarkably clear in this specimen .
The root has nine groups of primary wood , and shows the commencement of secondary growth ; the secondary wood is as yet only three or four cells in thickness .
Immediately outside the wood is a zone of very delicate tissue ; opposite the protoxylem-groups this zone is excessively narrow \#151 ; only two cells in thickness\#151 ; and evidently represents the dividing cambium only .
Between the groups of primary wood , however , the delicate tissue attains a thickness of about five cells ; evidently phloem is present at those places , to the outside of the cambial layer ( fig. 1 , ph , ph , on either side of the protoxylem , px ) .
The alternation of the primary strands of xyiem and phloem is quite regular .
Here , then , is another point , in which these organs conform to the typical structure of recent roots.| Secondary tissues , as is already well known , were formed in great abundance , and the various preparations show them at all stages of development\#151 ; the wood , in the larger specimens , sometimes attaining a radial thickness of at least 60 elements .
* WrLLiAMSON , " Organization , " PartXII .
, Plate 28 , fig. 2 .
f Hick and Cash , loc cit. , 'Proc .
Yorkshire Geol .
and Polytechnic Soc. , ' 1881 .
X Hick and Cash describe the whole of this thin-walled zone as cambium , loc. cit. , p. 402 .
These authors have expressed doubts as to the identification of their Myriophylloides with Astromyelon ( loc. cit i Proc. Yorkshire Gieol .
and Polytechnic Soc. , ' vol. 8 , 1884 , p. 375 ) .
They point out , quite justly , that the similarity in cortical structure is not by itself sufficient to prove identity .
They go on , however , to state that the axial structure of Astromyelon bears " by ilo means a close resemblance to that of Myriophylloides .
" This is a mistake , arising from the fact that , at that time , the primary wood of Myriophylloides had not been recognised .
The structure of the original specimen of Myriophylloides is in fact identical with that of Astromyelon .
For example , there is no real difference , except in age , between the root shown in " Organization , " Part XII .
, Plate 28 , fig. 2 ( .Myriophylloides ) , and that shown in Plate 27 , fig. 3 ( typical Astromyelori ) .
On comparing our own fig. 1 ( Myriophylloides ) with fig* 2 , which is from a typical Astromyelony the essential identity of structure becomes obvious .
The question of the identification of the smallest pithless specimens presents greater difficulties , and will be discussed in the text .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
689 The general structure of the secondary wood is identical with that of the stem of Catamites .
The fascicular wood abuts directly on the external elements of the primary xylem ( see fig. 2 ) .
The interfascicular wood is soon formed across the whole width of the primary rays , which , consequently , cannot be traced far outwards ( see Plate 15 , photographs 3 , 6 , and 7 ) .
In some cases the cells of the primary ray show tangential dilatation , exactly as we described in the case of the stem in our last paper.# In these , as in other roots , the primary interfascicular rays are necessarily limited to the wood , for each of them corresponds in position to a strand of primary phloem .
A characteristic feature of the secondary wood is the regular presence of a ray one or two cells in thickness , exactly opposite each protoxylem-angle ( see Plate 16 , fig. 2 , / \gt ; .
) , These rays , which often consist of cells rather broader than the tracheae , can sometimes be traced for a long distance through the wood .
In some cases they become subdivided by intercalated series of tracheae .
We may call them fascicular rays , to distinguish them from the broader interfascicular rays which lie between the bundles of primary xylem .
The fascicular rays can be recognized in radial sections also , wherever the plane of section exactly passes through the protoxylem ( see fig. 3 , f r. ) .
They can also be distinguished in tangential sections which pass through the inner part of the wood .
These rays were observed by Renault , in his Astro-myelon augustodunense , in 1885.+ The formation of a ray opposite each protoxylem-group is a well-known phenomenon in recent roots.| The wood also contains numerous secondary rays of the ordinary type .
S The tracheae agree in all respects with those of the stem .
Their pits are usually limited to the radial walls , and are distinctly bordered , as can best be seen in good tangential sections .
Remains of the cambium and phloem have been observed in several of the more advanced specimens , as well as in the younger roots already mentioned .
Perhaps the best specimen in this respect is that illustrated in Plate 1 5 , photograph 3 , and in Plate 17 , figs. 10 and 11 .
This root shows a distinct layer of phloem ( fig. 10 , ph .
) , which has split away from the wood , and remains attached to the cortical zone .
Here and there a tabular cambial cell is seen at the outer edge of the wood ( ch .
) .
We cannot be certain that the whole thickness of the phloem remains ; the part preserved is six or more cells in width , and its elements show traces of a radial arrangement .
Most of this tissue , no doubt , belonged to the secondary phloem ; some more irregular groups in the outer part of the zone probably represent the primary phloem .
The structure of the cortex has been fully described in former memoirs.|| Only a * " Further Observations , " Part I. , p. 884 .
t Loc .
cit. , " Nouvelles Recherches , " p. 98 .
+ De Bary , ' Comparative Anatomy of Phanerogams and Ferns , ' Engl , ed. , p. 474 .
S See Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 19 , fig. 6 , c. || See especially " Organization , " Part XII .
brief recapitulation , with the addition of one or two details , is needed here .
The question of the presence of a distinct pericycle and endodermis will be postponed until the smaller rootlets have also been taken into consideration .
In all cases where the cortex is preserved , it consists of three well-marked zones : ( 1 ) an inner cortex , of continuous parenchyma , immediately surrounding the central cylinder ; ( 2 ) a middle cortex , which is lacunar , consisting of radial plates of tissue , separated from one another by wide intercellular spaces ; ( 3 ) an outer cortex , consisting , like the inner zone , of continuous parenchyma.* The relative thickness of the three zones varies considerably in different specimens , as is sufficiently shown in the figures cited .
The lacunae , however , are always arranged in a single circle only .
The large root shown in photograph 3 has a somewhat peculiar cortex , which , at the first glance , appears to consist entirely of solid parenchyma .
More careful examination , however , reveals the existence of a rather narrow lacunar zone ( see Plate 17 , fig. 11 , Iz .
) in the usual intermediate position .
The trabeculae have been crushed in upon the inner cortex , so as almost to obliterate the lacunae between them .
The specimen shown , in transverse section , in photograph 4 , has a cortex of the " Astromyelon11 type , but differing considerably from the more usual form .
It is , in all probability , specifically distinct from the more ordinary examples .
The trabeculae are much more numerous than usual , and the lacunae between them are narrower in a corresponding degree .
At some places the lacunae are not empty , but contain large , irregular , rounded cells .
Similar intralacunar cells have been found occasionally in other specimens ; their nature will be discussed below ( p. 693 ) .
The structure of the trabeculae is well shown in longitudinal or oblique sections , from which it is evident that they formed continuous vertical partitions , each of which was only one cell in thickness ( see fig. 8 ; also " Organization , " Part XIL , Plate 31 , fig. 4 ) .
The cells of which they are composed are cylindrical in shape , so that the partitions , as seen in tangential section , have a moniliform appearance .
The inner cells of each trabecula are usually short , while those further to the exterior are often much elongated in the radial direction .
Some further details as to the cortex will be given when the rootlets are considered .
The Rootlets .
Under the name " rootlets " we group those smaller specimens , which , while agreeing in other respects with the forms already described , differ from them in having little or no pith , and no primary rays , so that the groups of primary xyleffl either meet at the centre of the steal , or are , at least , laterally confluent .
Specimens of this kind were included by Hick and Cash in their genus , + the typespecimen of which , as we have seen , had a considerable pith and typical Astromyelon * See the figures in ** Organization , " Part XII .
t Loc tit .
, ' Proc. Yorkshire Geol .
and Polytechnic Soc. , ' vol. 8 , p. 377 , 1884 .
See also Renault , " NQUvelles Recherches , " p. 101 , 1885 , I ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
691 structure .
The pithless specimens , however , really differ conspicuously from the ordinary type of Astromyelov .
Now that we know that Astromydon , in its typical medullate form , is nothing but the root of , it becomes desirable to recon- cider the evidence for the identification with it , of the minute pithless specimens .
We believe we are able to prove that here also the identification is correct , and that the smallest specimens , without medulla , are , in fact , the finer branches , or rootlets , which were borne on the larger medullate organs .
We shall , therefore , employ the word " rootlet ' ' throughout the description , though , as we shall find , there is no sharp distinction between these finer branches and the larger medullate specimens which we term simply " roots .
" The structure of the rootlets will first be described , after which we will discuss the evidence as to their nature.'5 ' In some of them the middle of the central cylinder is entirely occupied by the primary xylem , and there is no pith whatever .
Neither does there seem to be parenchyma of any kind among the primary tracheae ( see figs. 5 , 7 , and 8 ; also fig. 1 in " Organization , " Part XII .
) .
In other cases , a very few elements , with somewhat thinner walls , can be distinguished at the centre ( see , for example , fig. 4 ) .
In such cases it is often impossible to make out for certain whether these elements are really parenchymatous cells or merely thin-walled tracheae .
In other specimens , however , there is no doubt of the existence of a very small pith.t In the remarkable branched specimen , figured in a previous memoir , | the rootlets seen in longitudinal section show no pith , while the branch , which is cut transversely , has a little thin-walled tissue within the primary woocl .
S In all these rootlets the primary wood , whether actually reaching the centre of the steal or not , is perfectly continuous , so that the number of strands of which it is composed is indicated by the protoxylem-angles alone .
The latter are often quite distinct , as , for example , in Plate 16 , fig. 4 , where the rootlet was evidently tetrarch .
So also , no doubt , was the rootlet shown in Plate 15 , photograph 5.|| In the typical rootlets , with little or no pith , we have never found more than four * The rootlets are illustrated in " Organization , " Part XII .
, figs. 1 , 5 , and 7 ; and in photograph 5 and figs. 4 , 5 , 7 , and 8 in the present paper .
t See , for example , the rootlet figured in " Organization , " Part XV .
, Plate 3 , fig. 23 , which is almost certainly of the same nature .
This rootlet occurs inside the stem of a selaginoides , in the hollow zone left by the decay of the middle cortex .
It is very probable that the rootlet had made its way , by its own growth , into the decaying stem , as so constantly happened in the case of the rootlets of 8 tigmaria .
\#163 ; " Organization , " Part XII .
, Plate 29 , fig. 7 .
S Another very clear case of a minute pith ( not figured ) is C.N. 1348 .
Here the tetrarch rootlet has a. perfectly distinct thin-walled medulla , consisting of three or four cells only , as seen in transverse section .
|| See also AV thamson , Organization , " Part XII .
, Plate 30 , fig. 5 , which shows another tetrarch rootlet .
groups of protoxylem ; triarch and diarch specimens also occur .
Thus our fig. 7 shows a triarch rootlet , and one of those figured in a previous memoir was probably also triarch.* We have figured a very characteristic diarcli rootlet in fig , 5 .
Another rootlet ( see fig. 8 ) , itself probably tetrarch , bears a diarch branch .
Minute diarch rootlets are excessively common in the preparations , but , as a rule , their structure is not sufficiently definite for us to be certain to what they belong .
We have , however , figured one of these doubtful rootlets in fig. 9 .
It occurs in the same preparation as that shown in fig. 8 , so it is very probable that it may be of the same nature as the diarch branch shown in the latter figure , borne upon a rootlet of the usual structure .
Fig. 9 is in itself of considerable anatomical interest .
The rootlet , which is very young , is seen in oblique section .
The diarch xylem-plate is not yet completely lignified in the middle ; the minute tracheae of the protoxylem are clearly shown at either end of the plate .
A branch , which is obviously of endogenous origin , is seen in median section .
Its xylem is directly continuous with one of the protoxylem-strands of the parent rootlet .
A more typical example of root-structure would be difficult to find ; we have therefore thought the specimen worth figuring , though we cannot be quite certain that it is of the same kind as the other rootlets .
Returning to the typical specimens , we find that the rootlets , in some cases , possess the primary tissues only , while others have undergone a greater or less degree of secondary growth in thickness .
Such differences are no doubt dependent simply upon age .
Thus the rootlet shown in fig. 7 is destitute of any secondary tissues , while fig. 4 shows the first commencement of their formation .
The diarch rootlet , represented in fig. 5 , already has about five layers of secondary wood .
A tetrarch rootlet , previously figured , !
has a broad secondary zone , the wood of which is about ten layers thick .
Other rootlets , with much thicker secondary wood , in one case amounting to sixty layers of tracheae ( C.N. 1309 ) , are included in the collection .
The structure of the wood of these rootlets is in all respects identical with that of the larger roots , except , of course , that in the former , owing to the absence of primary rays , the wood is not broken up into wedges .
Fascicular rays , corresponding to the protoxylem-groups , can often be distinguished in the rootlets , as well as in the larger roots .
Remains of the phloem are frequent in the better-preserved rootlets ( see figs. 4 and 5 ) .
The secondary phloem does not seem to have attained any great thickness .
The tetrarch rootlet , shown in transverse section in fig. 4 , is very instructive he position of the four protoxylem-groups ( jpx .
) is quite clear ; at these four points no secondary growth had as yet taken place .
In two cases the cell lying immediately outside the protoxylem has undergone a single tangential division ; at the other two points there seems to have been no division , though it is possible that the delicate septa may have perished .
Opposite the protoxylem groups there is evidently an * Williamson , " Organization , " Part XII .
, Plate 27 , fig. 1 .
t " Organization , " Part XII .
, Plate 30 , fig. 5 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
693 entire absence of phloem , while between them four distinct bands of phloem ( ph ) are shown .
Thus the usual alternation , characteristic of roots , is maintained .
Within each of the four bands of phloem growth in thickness has commenced , and from three to four layers of secondary wood have already been formed in this position .
The rootlet shown in Plate 15 , photograph 5 , is essentially similar , but here the wood has already attained a somewhat greater thickness.* We now come to the subject of pericycle and endodermis .
The rootlet shown in Plate 16 , fig. 4 , has four rows of cells between the phloem and the beginning of the lacunar zone .
The two outer of these layers have intercellular spaces , and evidently form part of the inner cortex .
The next layer , towards the interior ( en , in fig. 4 ) , consists of closely-fitting cells , and a slight thickening of their radial walls can be made out .
This was almost certainly the functional endodermis .
The innermost layer , abutting on the phloem and protoxylem , consists of thin-walled cells .
Now it is remarkable that these four layers of cells are arranged , on the whole , in radial series .
The same is the case in the rootlet shown in Plate 15 , photograph 5 .
The important point is that the layers which occupy the respective positions of pericycle and endodermis fit on to each other as if they had had a common origin .
Traces of the same arrangement are found in other specimens , both rootlets and larger roots.t In some of the latter the thin-walled layer is two cells thick .
Outside this comes the functional endodermis , and sometimes all three layers are in radial seriation .
Too much stress must not be laid on these facts , which are not absolutely constant .
At the same time they are not without interest , for we know that in the roots of Equisetumthere is no pericycle , but a double endodermis , in which the outer layer alone has the typical endodermal structure , while the inner layer is thin-walled , and gives rise to the rootlets.^ If the indications above mentioned are to be trusted it would appear that the same may have held good for the roots of , in which case we should have to speak of the thin-walled layer immediately surrounding the ' steal , not as pericycle , but as inner endodermis .
The cortex of the rootlets does not differ from that of the larger roots .
We find the same three zones , of which the middle one is lacunar ( see photograph 5 , and figs. 4 , 5 , 7 , and 8 ) .
Occasionally we find cells in the cortex which have rather thicker walls than their neighbours , and dark carbonised contents ( see fig. 4 ) .
These may very probably have been secretory sacs of some kind .
Similar cells also occur in the cortex of the largest roots ( see fig. 11 ) .
Attention has already been called to the occasional presence of irregular rounded cells within the lacunae .
This peculiarity appears both in the medullate roots and in * Cf .
" Organization , " Part XII .
, Plato 30 , fig. 5 , Avhich repi'esents a similar rootlet at a more advanced stage of development .
t As for example in C.N. 1308 .
X See , for example , Van Tieghem et Douliot , " Origin des membres endogenes , " 1889 , p. 394 , Plate 27 , figs. 413-416 .
the rootlets ( see photographs 4 and 5 , figs. 7 and 8 ) .
The specimens shown in photograph 5 and in fig. 8 throw great light on the origin of these intralacunar cells .
It is evident that they arose as hernia-like outgrowths from the cells of the trabeculae .
An early stage of this process is shown in fig. 8 ; in photograph 5 the outgrowths have become larger and more numerous , while in the specimens represented in photograph 4 and in fig. 7 they have increased to such an extent as to block up some of the lacunae .
The process is evidently of the nature of thylosis , which is known to occur in the intercellular spaces of * Wherever the outermost tissues of the cortex are preserved , whether in a rootlet , or in one of the larger roots , we find the surface protected by a special thick-walled layer of cells .
The outer wall of this layer in some cases attains a great thickness , which may exceed the diameter of the cell-cavity .
The thickened membrane often shows a distinctly laminated structure ( see photograph 5 , and figs. 5 , 7 and 8).+ We propose to call this outer , protective layer of cells , the epidermoidal layer ; it has the structure of a thick-walled epidermis , and appears to correspond in all respects with the epidermoidal layer| described by Olivier in many recent roots .
It is probable that the epidermoidal layer in the roots of Catamites was not superficial in origin , for in some cases the remains of a layer of cells exterior to it can be traced .
Most probably the actual absorptive epidermis of the young root was cast off , and the protective function was assumed by the cortical layer next below ( the just as is the case in so many roots of recent plants .
In one of the larger roots the epidermoidal layer is evidently more than one cell thick ( see fig. 11 ) .
It is possible that we here have the commencement of periderm-formation , such as was observed by Renault in one of his specimens .
|| From the description already given , it is evident that the rootlets and the larger roots show a complete agreement in structure , except for the absence of pith and of primary rays in the former .
In order , however , to prove decisively that the rootlets were really the minor branches of those roots which , as we know , belonged to mites , further evidence of two kinds is necessary .
( 1 .
) The most conclusive proof would be given , if we could find the small pithless rootlets borne as branches upon the typical medullate roots of Catamites .
( 2 .
) The point could also be proved by showing that an unbroken series of intermediate forms exists , connecting the smallest rootlets with the undoubted Calamitean roots .
The evidence available is chiefly of the latter kind , but we have some specimens which appear to show direct continuity between rootlet and root .
It will therefore * * * S * Strasburger , " Histologische Beitrage , " vol. 3 , p. 437 .
f In " Organization , " Part XII .
, fig. 5 ( Plate 30 ) , shows the layer in question at e , and it is also conspicuous in the rootlet figured in Part XV .
, Plate 3 , fig. 23 .
J Olivier , " Appareil tegumentaire des Racines , " ' Ann. des Sci. Not .
, Bot. , ' ser. 6 , vol. 11,1881 .
S Gf .
Strasburger , ' Das botanische Practicum , ' 2nd ed. , 1887 , p. 181 .
|| Renault , " Genre Astromyelon , " ' Ann. des Sci. Geologiques , ' vol. 17 , 1885 , Plate 7 , fig. 2 .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
695 be well shortly to pass in review the principal specimens in which branching is shown , with special reference to the light which they throw upon this question .
Branching of the Roots .
Some examples of branched roots have been figured in previous memoirs , * while others are illustrated in the present paper ( see photographs 6 and 7 , figs. 6 and 8 ) .
Most of these specimens have no direct bearing on the question , for in some the branches , as well as the main root , have a distinct medulla , t while in others both the main axis arid the branches are rootlets , with little or no pith ( fig. 8)4 The specimen shown in photograph 6 is of considerable interest .
Here the principal root is probably hexarch , and has a perfectly well-defined , though small pith , 8 to 10 cells in diameter .
Opposite two of the'protoxylem-groups branches are given off , both of which are cut sufficiently near their median plane to show the continuity of their primary xylem with that of the main axis .
In one branch there is no sign of any pith ; in the other , one or two rows of parenchymatous cells can be distinguished .
Such evidence is not conclusive , but the specimen certainly appears to show the bases of two rootlets , with little or no medulla , inserted upon a root , which , though small , has the typical internal structure of " Astromi.e .
, of the Calamitean root .
Another specimen S shows no less than four rootlets , in a tangential section of the main root , which , from its having distinct primary rays , was in all probability of the medullate type .
Plate 16 , fig. 6 , shows a tangential section ( from another specimen ) through the wood of a relatively main root , with a branch seen in approximately transverse section .
Here the branch has a small pith .
The specimen represented in Plate 1 7 , fig. 8 , is interesting , for it proves very clearly that the branch rootlet is an endogenous appendage of the parent axis .
In this case neither has any pith .
In Plate 15 , photograph 7 , we have illustrated a specimen which appears to deviate from the normal mode of branching .
The main root , in its decorticated condition , is about 8 millims. in maximum diameter .
It has a large pith , and no less than sixteen groups of primary xylem .
The secondary wood is from fifteen to thirty elements in radial thickness .
A branch , which is shown in nearly median section , lies exactly opposite one of the protoxylem-strands , but is separated from it by about fifteen layers of secondary wood .
The inner extremity of the branch , in which both medulla and primary xylem are evident , ends quite sharply , and there is no * * * S * Williamson , " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 19 , figs. 2 and 4 ; Part XII .
, Plate 29 , fig. 7 .
t As in " Organization , " Part IX .
, Plate 19 , figs. 2 and 4 .
+ So also in " Organization , " Part XII .
, Plate 29 , fig. 7 .
It seems that in this curious specimen the relatively main axis is that marked a , which is seen in longitudinal section .
S C.N. 1321 ( not figured ) , 696 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE appearance of obliquity .
The base of the branch is embedded in a sheath of secondary xylem , which is not perfectly continuous with the normal wood upon which it is superposed .
The peculiarity of this case lies in the want of connection between the base of the branch and the primary xylem of the parent root .
As we have no other sections of the specimen , we cannot be absolutely certain that the actual base of the branch may not have passed obliquely inwards , and attached itself to the protoxylem of the main axis in another plane .
The structure , however , shows no sign of such obliquity , and there is every appearance that the abrupt inner termination of the branch is its real base .
If so , the branch must either have been an adventitious one , formed after secondary growth had already made some progress , or else it may have been a normal branch tc begin with , which became separated from its place of origin by the intercalation of secondary wood .
An analogous process is well known to happen in the case of " sleeping buds " in some recent trees , such as the beech .
We have examined a longitudinal section , from a different specimen , which shows essentially the same peculiarities .
The following conclusions may be drawn from the study of branched specimens .
1 .
The roots of Catamites , like those of the recent Equiseta and of vascular plants generally , branched endogenously .
2 .
The minute , pithless rootlets were , in some cases , borne on parent roots of the ordinary " Astromyelon"type , with a distinct pith .
3 .
In exceptional cases it appears that the base of the branch-root was separated from the primary xylem of the main axis by a zone of secondary wood .
Conclusion .
A general survey of the numerous specimens which we have investigated , shows conclusively that there is no sharp distinction between the small pithless rootlets and the large medullate roots .
The extreme types are connected by an unbroken series of intermediate forms .
As regards the number of primary xylem-strands , every number , from 2 up to 14 , is represented ; while we also find larger roots with 16 and 25 strands .
As regards the size of the pith we find it of all dimensions , from a microscopic group of two or three cells , up to a diameter of nearly 2 centims. , noi is there any break in the series .
We will only call attention here to two of the intermediate forms .
In a previous memoir* a root is figured which at first sight one might take for a pithless rootlet .
We have re-examined the specimen , and find that it has a perfectly distinct pith , about seven cells in diameter , surrounded by se\ en groups of primary xylem , which form an almost continuous ring .
dhe root shown in photograph 6 has a slightly larger pith , eight to ten cells in diameter ; its stiuctuie is probably hexarch , but as the primary xylem-strands are well separated fi om one another , * " Organization , " Part XII .
, Plate 28 , fig. 6 ( C.N. 1309 ) .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
69 ?
there is a nearer approach to the original type of than in the specimen last considered .
We might have added indefinitely to the list of intermediate forms , but it is unnecessary to do so .
The secondary wood has precisely the same structure throughout , and so also has the cortex , wherever it is preserved .
- There is thus no longer any doubt that the forms such as were first grouped together in Part XII .
of the previous series of memoirs , under the name of " Astromyelon Williamsonis , " really belong to the same plant , and that they consist of the roots and rootlets of various orders of branching of .
The only form which seems to us strongly to suggest even a specific distinction from the rest , is that shown in photograph 4 , in which , as already mentioned , the cortex has a somewhat peculiar character . .
Renault speaks of some of his larger specimens as , not roots .
The organs to which he applies this name belong , some to Catamites ( his others to Calamodendron .
The specimens in question are beautifully illustrated in his latest work , # and agree perfectly in structure with the larger roots such as we have described .
We fail to see any reason for applying the name stolon to any of these organs .
A stolon is a modified stem , and should show the structure characteristic of stems .
In the organs , however , which Renault figures , the structure is distinctly that of a root , as is especially shown by the centripetal primary wood In the stem of Catamites , as we showed in our former paper , the primary wood is centrifugal . !
Our general results may be summed up as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The fossils hitherto described under the name of Astromyelon are the adventitious roots of Catamites. .
2 .
Their structure is in all respects that characteristic of roots , as is proved by the centripetal primary wood , the alternating strands of xylem and phloem , the endogenous mode of branching , and the absence of nodes .
3 .
The smallest specimens , with little or no medulla , represent the finest branches of the same roots , of which the large medullate forms are the relatively main axes .
Explanation of the Plates .
PLATE 15 .
Photographs from the actual sections , taken by the late Mr , W. Kirman , F.C.S. Photograph 1 .
Part of a tangential section through the wood of a stem , showing the base of a root , with " Astromyelon " structure , in transverse section .
The * * hoc .
cit. , " Flore d'Autun , " \amp ; c. , Part II .
, Plates 55 , 56 , 57 , 59 , and 60 .
The text of this work not having yet been published , we depend entirely on the figures and descriptions , t " Further Observations , " Part I. p. 872 .
WDCCCXCV.\#151 ; B , 4 X 69$ PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON AND DR. D. H. SCOTT ON THE pith ( P ) of the root has been perforated by a Stigmarian rootlet .
Eight strands of primary xylem are shown ( as at X around the pith ; some are missing .
The secondary wood ( X2 ) of the root is continuous with that of the stem on which it is borne .
C.N. 1352 .
X about 10 .
( See p. 685 .
) Photograph 2 .
Part of another tangential section from the same stem .
One of the large infranodal rays or " lenticular organs " is shown ( ) .
Above this , and to the right , is the transverse section of an outgoing foliar bundle ( L.T. ) .
C.N. 1353 .
X about 16 .
( See p. 685 .
) Photograph 3 .
Transverse section of a large corticated root .
( For cortex and phloem , see Plate 17 , figs. 10 and 11 .
) Pith ( P ) perforated by a Stigmarian rootlet .
Fourteen primary xylem-strands are shown ( as at ; some are missing .
The secondary wood ( X2 ) has a maximum thickness of about 50 cells .
C.N. 1891 .
X about 10 .
( See p. 687 .
) Photograph 4 .
Transverse section of a corticated root .
Pith ( P ) solid , surrounded by about twelve strands of primary xylem .
Secondary wood ( X2 ) only about three cells thick .
Cortex ( O\#151 ; C ) lacunar , with very numerous trabeculae .
Intrala-cunar cells ( ?
thylosis ) are seen .
Possibly a different species from the other specimens .
C.N. 1891a .
X about 12 .
( See p. 690 .
) Photograph 5 .
Transverse section of a tetrarch rootlet , without pith ; CY , centre of cylinder .
Formation of secondary wood has begun .
The double endodermis ( the inner layer of which is thin-walled ) can be recognized ( EN ) .
The trabeculae of the lacunar cortical zone show thylosis .
The cortex ( ) is limited externally by a thick-walled , epidermoidal layer ( PP ) C.N. 1890a .
X about 25 .
( See p. 691 .
) Photograph 6 .
Transverse section of a pentarch or hexarch root ( decorticated ) , showing the bases of two branches .
There is a small solid pith ( P ) .
Five primary xylem-strahds ( X ) are plain .
Opposite two of them are the branches ( PP ) , which show little or no pith .
Secondary wood of branches continuous with that of principal root .
C.N. 1892a .
X 22 .
( See p. 695 ) .
Photograph 7 .
Part of transverse section of a root , showing the base ot a branch ( BE ) .
The root had sixteen strands of primary xylem ( X ) , of which four are shown , with part of the pith ( P ) .
The base of the branch-root is separated from the primary xylem , opposite which it arises , by about fifteen layers of secondary wood ; X2 , limit between the two layers of secondary wood C.N. 1323 .
X 22 .
( See p. 695 ) .
i ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
699 Plates 16 and 17 ; figures from camera-lucida , made by Mr. George Brebner .
PLATE 16 .
Fig. 1 .
Part of a transverse section of a young 9-arch root , at the commencement of secondary thickening .
C.N. 1308 .
X 100. .
( See p. 687 .
) p , p , Cells of pith .
x , x , Primary xylem .
px , Protoxylem at the exterior of primary xylem .
x2 , x2 , Secondary wood , bordered externally by cambium .
ph , ph , Two groups of primary phloem .
en , en , Probably the functional endodermis .
The thin-walled layers within this may be either perciycle or inner endodermis .
c , c , Cells of the inner cortex .
This figure represents part of the section figured by Williamson in " Organization .
" Part XII .
, Plate 28 , fig. 2 ( near d " ) , and is from the original specimen of " Myriophylloides " Hick and Cash .
Fig. 2 .
Part of a transverse section of a more advanced 9-arch root .
C.N. 1314 .
X 100 .
( See p. 689 .
) p , p , Cells of pith .
x , x , Strand of primary xylem .
px , Protoxylem .
x % Secondary wood .
f.r. , Fascicular ray . .
Fig. 3 .
Part of a radial section of a similar root .
C.N. 1317 .
X 100 .
( Seep .
687 .
) p , p , Pith .
x , x , Primary xylem .
px , Protoxylem at the outer border of consisting of spiral tracheae .
x2 , Secondary wood .
The parenchymatous tissue , fir , belongs to the fascicular ray .
Fig. 4 .
Transverse section of a tetrarch rootlet .
The outer cortex ( similar to that shown in photograph 5 ) was partly preserved , but is not represented .
C.N. 1888 .
X 100 .
( See p. 691 .
) px , The four protoxylem-groups of the primary wood , which probably reached the centre , though the central thin-walled cells perhaps represent a minute pith .
x2 , Secondary xylem , which is beginning to form between the protoxylem-groups .
( Reference-line omitted .
) ph , Phloem ' , of which there are four groups , alternating with the protoxylem .
en , Endodermis , which is evidently double .
c , c , Cells of inner cortex .
l.z. Part of lacunar zone .
The dark cells may have been secretory sacs .
Fig. 5 .
Transverse section of a diarch rootlet .
C.N. 1318 .
X 70 .
( See p. 692 .
) px , px , The two protoxylem-groups of the primary xylem-plate .
About five layers of secondary wood have been formed .
ph , Remains of phloem .
The endodermis has divided tangentially ; lacunar zone ( l.z. ) and epidermoidal layer are shown .
Fig. 6 .
Part of a tangential section of the wood of a root , showing the base of a lateral root .
C.N. 1358 .
X 100 .
( See p. 695 .
) a ?
9- , Secondary wood of main root .
r , Secondary rays .
p , Pith of lateral root .
x , Primary , a ?
" , secondary xylem of lateral root .
From the course of the tracheae , we- infer that the bottom of the figure is .
directed towards the organic base of the main root .
Cf .
Strasburger , ' Histologische Beitrage , ' HI .
, p. 136 .
PLATE 17 .
Fig. 7 .
Transverse section of a rootlet , probably triarch , without secondary wood .
C.N. 1890 .
X 50 .
( See p. 692 .
) l.z. Lacunar zone of cortex .
ep , Epidermoidal layer , which is especially clear .
One side of the cortex is omitted , Fig. 8 .
Oblique section of a branching rootlet , probably tetrarch , with little or no secondary wood .
C.N. 1892c .
X 30 .
( See p. 692 .
) l.z. Lacunar zone of cortex ; the trabeculae show the commencement of thylosis .
ep , Epidermoidal layer .
hr , Branch-rootlet , probably diarch , passing out through the cortex of the main rootlet .
Fig. 9 .
Oblique section of a branching diarch rootlet , from the same preparation as fig. 8 .
The xylem-plate is not yet lignified in the middle .
C.Is .
1892c , X 100 .
( See p. 692 .
) px , px , The two protoxylem-groups , to one of which the xylem of the| branch-rootlet , hr , is attached .
en , Endodermis .
The endogenous origin of the branch is evident .
ORGANIZATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
701 Fig. 10 .
Part of transverse section of the root shown in photograph 3 .
C.N. 1891 .
X 100 .
( See p. 689 .
) as3 , Outer part of secondary wood .
cb , Cells of the cambium , adhering to the outer surface of the wood .
'ph , Phloem , separated from the wood by a gap , due to the tearing of the cambium .
en , Endodermis , probably double , including also the thin-walled cells adjacent to the phloem .
Beyond en , a portion of the inner cortex is shown .
Fig. 11 .
A part of the cortex , from the same root , in transverse section .
The whole thickness is shown .
The inner cortex is thin-walled .
C.N. 1891 .
X 40 .
( See p. 690 .
) l.z. Lacunar zone of middle cortex ; the lacunae are obliterated by the crushing in of the trabeculae .
ep , Epidermoidal layer , here multiseriate , probably owing to commencement of periderm-formation .

