Philos. Trans. No. 490 .
TAB. V. p. 666 .
Fig. 1 .
p. 644 .
A Fig. 2 .
p. 650 .
Fig. 5 .
p. 666 .
Fig. 3 .
p.653 .
B p.659 .
Fig. 4 .
[ ] A Summary of some late Observations upon the Generation , Composition , and Decomposition of Animal and Vegetable Substances ; Communicated in a Letter to Martin Folks Esq ; President of the Royal Society , by Mr. Turbervill Needham , Fellow of the same Society .
SIR , ~ 1 .
THO ' I think myself now almost sufficiently qualified , by the Multitude of Experiments I have already made upon animal and vegetable Substances , since the 16th , N. S. of last March , to lay down some certain Truths upon this Subject , and from them to advance , by Induction , farther than so short a Period of Time would allow me to proceed by special Experiments , yet I would have your learned Royal Society look upon this Paper as an imperfect Sketch only of what I hope to publish from the Journals I have by me in a few Months , if these two or three Sheets are so fortunate as to meet with their Approbation .
I am sufficiently sensible how much I may hurt this little Performance , if I promise too much , and raise in this Matter higher Expectations from the Public than it may appear hereafter to deserve : It is at this time therefore particularly the more necessary , that I should be exceedingly cautious to advance no Proposition rashly ; nothing , but what seems to flow naturally from Observation .
But this Precaution , however * strict , Paris , Nov. 23 , 1748 , N. S. Read Dec. 15 .
22 .
[ ] strict , will not exclude now-and-then a probable Consequence from appearing , provided it seems connected with some preceding manifest Truth ; for such must be allow 'd , as proper Foundations for a more exact Inquiry in a Matter I am very far from pretending to have exhausted .
I must therefore observe , for my own Security against future Objections , that tho ' I add no new decisive Experiment to my present List , or throw any more Light upon the Subject than what I have already amassed , I may possibly , before my Essay appears , whether by the Advice of Friends , or otherwise , conceive more mature Thoughts , reject some of the present , and adopt others in their Place .
As this will be done , without affecting in any degree the main System , which I imagine turns upon unquestionable Truths , it is a Liberty I am persuaded that equitable and learned Society will indulge me in , if no other Consideration prevails , than the great Obscurity that hangs over a Subject so extensive and so intricate as this is ; in which I am already engaged much farther than I at first foresaw , and indeed too far to recede without saying something .
~ 2 .
I shall take as little Notice as may be , in this short Summary , of the almost inevitable Mistakes others may have made in this Matter before me , and the too hasty Consequences they have drawn from Appearances that naturally surprise by their Novelty .
Such Surprise is but too apt to captivate Persons even of the most serene Thoughts , much more the young and unexperienced ; such as Mr. Hartsoeker was , when he first discovered the spermatic Animals .
[ ] ~ 3 .
Mr. Lewenhoeck indeed , so near his Cotemporary in this Discovery as to claim a Priority , was much more advanced in Age and Experience ; yet if he should also appear to have been mistaken , we are not to be surprised at it ; for his repeated Observations upon the Sperm of such a Variety of Animals , even as low as Insects , seem to entitle him to draw Consequences as extensive for a general System of Generation , as his Experiments had been .
In effect , what two more powerful Arguments could a Philosopher with the Knowledge of no other Fact , than that of their Existence , have , than the Universality of Animalcules in this Fluid , and their seeming Confinement to this animal Secretion ?
~ 4 .
The Method of Reasoning by Analogy is but too apt to lead us into Mistakes , and therefore we ought to be very diffident of Consequences deduced this Way .
Every new Appearance that has no known Cause , immediately fixes , and but toooften at last puts the Thoughts of the Observer upon the Rack .
When the Mind arrives at this Intensity of Action , how natural is it to free ourselves from a painful Uncertainty at any rate , and that with as little Expense of Reflection as may be ?
The most obvious and easy Method is to class , if it admits it , and to reduce it to some other known Phenomenon ; possibly we are yet no nearer the physical Cause , because that of both is unknown .
We have still , however , the Satisfaction to have diminished the Surprise it gives , by taking from its Singularity , and rest in some measure contented with this little Deceit .
~ 5 .
I call it a Deceit , if we acquiesce in it , tillsuch time as a Number of Circumstances shall concur to [ ] place it above the State of an Hypothesis , and show us we have been right in our Inferences .
Mere Analogy , founded only upon one or two Facts , and extended by Conjecture , however plausible , can but at most furnish Motives for a reasonable Doubt , and a more mature Enquiry .
For tho ' , as a modern Author observes very well , Nature seems every-where to hold with itself , and go off by an almost imperceptible Gradation ; yet , in our present Ignorance of the entire Chain of Beings , we are so liable to mistake two distant Species for the next immediate ones to each other , that the Analogy is thereby nearly extinguished , and its Traces almost effaced .
~ 6 .
That this has been too much the Case in all the modern Systems of Generation , will appear I believe plain in the Course of this Memoir to every unbiased Naturalist .
Animalcules were found universally in all animal Seed , almost at all times , and seemingly in this animal Secretion alone ; they were therefore previously thought essential to Generation ; or they should have added , a necessary Consequence of Properties in the Seed , which Properties were essential to Generation .
But this Inference , however natural , was entirely overlooked by them in their Reasoning ; and Analogy induced them to stop at the first , without ever examining the second , tho ' equally consequent .
The Opinion of preexistent Germs had prevailed , under the Notion of Female Eggs , ere this Discovery was made ; and thus one Mistake had been grafted upon another .
When the spermatic Animals appeared , it was not difficult to transfer these imaginary Germs from the one to the other ; and at most Philosophers were [ ] only divided by it ; tho ' as both Opinions were equally plausible , the latter generally prevailed by its Novelty .
The vast and unbounded Prospect it opened to the Imagination , in a View of such a prodigious Series from the first Parent to the last , of original Lineaments , struck the Mind with an agreeable Surprise .
The Folly of equivocal Generation , particularly as it had been stated by the Ancients , the false Grounds they had proceeded upon to establish it , various Experiments that seemed to prove every Animal , every Plant , descended from Individuals of the same Species ; but , above all , the Facility of classing these spermatic Animals , the reducing them by Analogy to Seed and Eggs , and the known Transition of most Insects from one State to another , seemed all sufficient to remove the Veil Nature had drawn , and furnish a Clue of a competent Length to conduct us into its most hidden Recesses .
~ 7 .
Thus this new System of Generation soon became a favourite Opinion of the last Age , as it is indeed still of this for the most part ; and many ingenious Methods were imagined of answering the Difficulties from Observation that seemed to oppose it .
The more ancient Hypothesis of female Eggs was at last blended with it , and both were worked up into one System : Their real Existence was determined , with their Form , Colour , Size , Situation , and the Mechanism of their Conveyance to the Womb ; and imaginary Valves were appointed in each Egg admitting one , exclusive of every other spermatic Animal .
Happy the first of these minute Beings that could take Possession of this little Cell , and shut the Door against contending Millions !
Hitherto [ ] therto every Step seemed easy and natural , if not too closely examined ; the Inquisitive were conducted as high as their Curiosity could promise ; and we might have expected , that Philosophers should have stopped here ; but there is no End of reasoning by Analogy .
~ 8 .
No Body of Men so strictly deserves the Name of a Republic as that of the Learned does : Every one is passionately fond of adding to the common Stock , and claims nothing in Return , but the Name and Merit of having enriched it ; yet this Passion is often so violent , that base Metals are mistaken for Gold , and Pebbles for Diamonds .
It is not therefore Matter of much Surprise , if some have carried the imaginary Scene yet farther ; and , still proceeding by Analogy , have supposed that the reticular Expansion , observed in the Womb of Does some Days after Copulation , by Harvey , and since him , in other impregnated Females , was nothing more than the investing Web , spun by the spermatic Animal before it entered the chrysalidal State , and preparatory to its Transition from one Form to another .
Certainly these Authors never considered the immense Disproportion , between the great Expansion of this Web and the inconceivable Minuteness of the Animalcule ; otherwise it had appeared as rational to suppose , that an Alpine Mountain could have been reared in a few Days by a single Emmet successively pileing one Grain of Sand upon another .
Nothing now seemed wanting to complete this System , and place it above all Exception , but ocular Demonstration , if it might possibly be obtained , that the original Embryo was really contained [ ] tained in each of these Animalcules : By Dissection , the young Butterfly had been observed in the Caterpillar three or four Days before it became a Chrysalid ; Mr. Lewenhoeck had succeeded in some other very nice Operations upon extremely minute Subjects , nor did he despair of his Success in this ; yet his repeated Attempts , it seems , all proved fruitless .
But what the most exquisite Art had denied to Lewenhoeck , Chance , if we believe him , presented to another Naturalist , a little Man started from under the Integuments he was said to wear in his vermicular State ; and the Observer very humorously gave us a Figure of this diminutive Entity perfect in every Member .
These extraordinary Sallies , however , we must not place to the Account of the Learned , either of this or the last Age ; they were generally exploded , and they indeed continue so ; yet altho ' they were peculiar only to the most lively ; extravagant as they may appear to be , they were Consequences of the System ; and thus was this Method of Reasoning by Analogy fairly pursued , as far as Imagination could carry it .
~ 9 .
Cudworth , Grew , Le Clerc , and some other Gentlemen of Judgment , had reflected too deeply upon Nature to give way to any Hypothesis , how plausible soever , that took in less than the whole Scene it exhibits to every attentive Observer .
Yet they seem to have advanced much too far towards the other Extreme ; and their System of plastic Natures , tho ' in its Detail attended with many Proofs of extensive Thought , and profound Reflection , in a general View derogates as much from the [ ] Omnipotence of an All-wise Creator ; and is not perhaps less extraordinary , than that Opinion which attributed the Regularity and Motion of the Planets to the Ministry of Angels .
In this Light , I presume , it has been looked upon by others , as well as by myself ; and it is upon this account that I imagine it has had so sew Followers ; I shall therefore take no further notice of it here , than to observe , that , inasmuch as it admits a productive Force in Nature , and Operations that go much deeper than a mere Developement of Parts , it has certainly more of Truth in it , than the Opinion of pre-existent Germs : as I flatter myself , will appear evident in the Course of this Memoir , by Arguments drawn not from Observations only , that are obvious to every Naturalist , but particular Experiments made upon animal and vegetable Substances , during the whole Summer of this present Year .
~ 10 .
To enter therefore more particularly into my Subject , where to place the pre-existent animal Embryo , for instance , whether in the Animalcule or Egg , was ever the Question , and still remains unanswered .
A Division of vital , essential , and original Stamina or Lineaments was impossible ; yet innumerable Instances in Monsters , Mules , and many natural Subjects , concur to prove , that the young Faetus partakes of the Nature , Qualities , Constitution , Form , and Features of both the Parents ; even as far as their Defects and Diseases , which are but too often hereditary .
How can it then be agreeable to Reason ?
Or to what Purpose should we call in to our Aid unalterable original Stamina ?
Can the visible Species of any Production be determined [ ] mined by them , if every sensible Quality may be influenced indiscriminately by either Parent ?
And if they cannot be altered , nor the visible Species be determined exactly by them , in what does their Essence consist , or how can they be applied to that very Use we seem to think them designed for ?
If they are placed in the Animalcule , or in the Egg , how are they transmitted ?
And if in the Animalcule , why is the Process attended with so vast an Expense , so great a Waste of Millions of Entities , each containing within itself a Series of the most perfect and most wonderful Productions in Nature , when one only of these Millions of Millions is alone to take Place ?
How are these Animals generated ?
if in the common Way , not only the Process will be boundless , and these in their Seed have others , and so on in an immense Series ; but they can not then be unalterable , because they are supposed capable of being generated .
Further , if they float in the Air , or lie hidden in Food , as some have thought , how is it that the Stamina of one Species do not sometimes insinuate themselves into a strange Parent , with all the Inconveniences and Absurdities of equivocal Generation ?
Or if they are said to be excluded by proper Strainers adapted for that very Purpose in distant Species ; at least they cannot be so in those Kinds that are near a kin : For if the spermatic Animal , which is naturally productive of a Horse in its own proper Matrix , is yet so fitted to the Eggs of the Ass , that it can possess a Cellule there exclusive of every other , which argues an exact Coaptitude , certainly the same Animalcules , if contained either in Food , Air , or Water , common to both Horse and Ass , might pass the [ ] Strainers indiscriminately of either ; and thus might we have Mules common from each respective Male , without a promiscuous Congress of these two Species .
~ 11 .
In another View , if we consider the extreme Tenuity , I may say the mere Nothingness of one of these Stamina , in its first Origin , at the Distance of many Ages ; comparatively to any one Part , the smallest muscular Fibre , for instance , of an adult Animal it is now said to constitute : how can we understand , that so minute a Filament could be developed , or in any Sense serve as a Substratum to a Cylinder so solid , so massive , so comparatively immense ?
Could a Mountain be looked upon as a Superstructure upon a Grain of Sand ?
Or the terraqueous Globe derive its present Dimensions from the Dilatation of an Atom ?
What is not the prodigious Force of this muscular Fibre in its present State , if compared with what it had in its Origin ?
and , consequently , what must have been the Increase of real extraneous Matter , either by Apposition , or Incorporation ; which is now as much a Part of this Fibre as the original Stamen ?
And if thus much can mechanically be assimilated , why not the whole of it formed by mechanical Causes ?
Or why must so insignificant a Part of it be said to be concreated with the Universe ?
But to strike at once with what , in my Opinion , may be looked upon as a demonstrative Argument against the System of original Stamina ?
The Difficulty still increases immensely , if we look into the Vegetation of Plants , and the wonderful Re-production of the Parts of Polypes , Starfish , Lobsters Claws , &amp;c. The [ ] original Stamina , how minute soever , questionless are diffused through the whole Production ; since in this System all animal or vegetable Growth is made by Developement only : But if diffused , then some or all may be by successive Bisection lost ; and if lost , how can they be reproduc 'd ?
Or if reproduc 'd , why ever said to be original , and concreated with the Universe ?
~ 12 .
These are but a few of those many Difficulties that might be enumerated ; which yet are of such a Nature , that it is evident to every unbiased Observer , they cannot be even seemingly evaded , but by multiplying Suppositions on Suppositions ; which at last render the Hypothesis so complex , as to retain no one Characteristic impressed upon the ordinary Process and Operations of Nature .
Is it not much more reasonable to say , that so many secretory Ducts , so many Strainers , so many preparatory Vessels in Animals , and such a curious Disposition in Plants for the Continuation of every Species , imply a Digestion , Secretion , and Preparation of Principles invariably , univocally productive of every Individual , when they fall into their respective Matrices , and find Aliment proper to assimilate ?
Are not these Principles contained in the Nourishment taken by the Parent Plant or Animal , the same that continually vegetate within it , and furnish it with Materials for its own Increase ; continue to be distributed till it becomes adult , then plentifully exuberate , whilst it is , by new Preparations , fitted to propagate invariably in a proper Matrix its respective Kind ?
Else , why this Digestion ?
why this Secretion ?
why so many Strainers , Receivers , Ducts , and Valves ?
and why is some Food more productive of these Princi* *2 ciples [ ] ples than others ?
Or if they are pre-existent Germs that are secreted , are the pre-existent Germs of every Species contained in every Bird , Beast , Fish , or Plant , that supplies another with nutritive Juice , and becomes its Food ?
What a strange Confusion ?
How unlike that beautiful Simplicity , which Nature exhibits in all its Productions ?
Germs shut up within Germs , and Nature swarming with supernumerary Entities , all which we readily conceive might have been struck out at once , when the Universe was created ; yet pretend not to be able to understand how they may be continually formed in Times successive , and as Occasions may require .
~ 13 .
This should seem as unnatural , and as unphilosophical , as it is disagreeable to Observation : For if every mixed Body is made up by the Combination of certain Principles , I think we cannot question ; but that God may have established Forces in Nature , subsisting Forces , by which such Principles may , in certain Circumstances , be invariably united , without any Danger of deviating , so as to render Generation equivocal ; and if every Production in Question is a mixed Body , as it certainly is , we know at the same time , that , how various soever they are , a small Number of Principles differently combined will yield an inconceivable Variety , sufficient to produce them all .
Thus may we reduce Nature to what it is really ever found to be , simple in the Beginning of its Course , but magnificent beyond Expression when distributed : And this , I believe , will readily be allowed to be its true Process in Generation , if , besides taking in all the ordinary Phenomenon , which no Hypothesis could yet explain , [ ] this Process is found consonant to many particular Experiments , some of which seem to me to render the System incontestable .
~ 14 .
Modern Naturalists have unanimously agreed to lay down , for a certain Truth , that every Plant proceeds from its specific Seed , every Animal from an Egg , or something analogous , preexistent in a Parent of the same kind .
If it is ever of Use to separate disagreeing Ideas , and previously to explain equivocal Words , it is particularly requisite in this Case to determine what we mean by Seeds and Eggs .
Seeds and Eggs , in the common Acceptance of those Terms , are certain mixed Bodies , of several Dimensions , that immediately furnish these Productions .
In this Sense they are understood to contain not only the pre-existent Germ , but the Nidus also , if I may so term it , fitted for its Reception , and a due Supply of alimentary Principles to be assimilated in proper Circumstances .
They are therefore thus far heterogeneous Bodies , that coalesce in a known Time ; and their Principles are so far from being originally united at the Creation , that they sensibly come together from very distant Places in all hermaphrodite Plants , and from different Individuals in all those Species , where the Male and Female are distinct .
Now I cannot persuade myself , but that either I have not understood what has been written on this Subject , or that Authors have not sufficiently reflected upon this , when they assert , that , because the Plantula is found in the Seed , an Oak , for instance , in an Acorn , that therefore this diminutive Tree bears likewise its Acorns , and thus on through a long [ ] Series .
I shall not ask how this small Plant can have Seed ; in the common Acceptance of that Term , it is plain it cannot : and if it has not , where the pre-existent Germ is lodged ; how , from an Atom , at so immense a Remove , can it be increased to a sensible Mass , and be successively developed through so many Generations , till its Time of Appearance ?
with many other Consequences that may be drawn from hence against the Reality of pre-existent Germs ; all which are too obvious to require a distinct Enumeration .
~ 15 .
It is in vain for us to pretend to lay down any one certain uniform Rule , and say to Nature , This is thy Scheme ; such are thy Statutes ; and from these thou shalt not deviate .
If in many Productions she fixes it as an inviolable Law , that no Individual of that Species shall appear without a Co-operation of two Parents a Male and a Female , she has at the same time her Hermaphrodites both in Plants and Animals ; and if in these Hermaphrodites the two Sexes are yet so distinct , that she seems but to have a little diversified her Operations , without any sensible Deviation from her primitive Law , she will , in another Instance , that of the Pucerons observed by Mr. Bonnet , act either with or without the Cooperation of a Male .
If again you say that a Female may be impregnated , so that the Impregnation shall diffuse itself , and penetrate as far as five or six Generations , she will point out to you in the Class of Polypes many Kinds , where Generation is carried on without either Male or Female , Egg or Seed ; tho ' , among these , there are some of the plumed Sort , where a whole Family , when by real Vegetation [ ] getation branched out as far as Nature designs , jointly concurs to give one Egg , or something analogous to an Egg , as the Source of a future Progeny .
And thus is this Class united to its next most immediate Superior .
If you should still insist , that the vital essential Stamina of every Plant and Animal were really concreated with the Universe , and are now diffused in Water , Earth , or Air , from whence each will be united to its proper Subject in due time ; or that the Experiments of Niewentyt , and other Naturalists , of the Stems and Roots of Beans , or other Seeds , altering their Directions several times whendisplac 'd , to recover each its own , the Root downwards , and Stem upwards ; that these I say evidently prove vital , essential , unchangeable Stamina ; as they must be , if original , and concreated with the Universe : Instances might be brought from the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris , of Trees that have been so inverted , and induced to change their Direction , that the Branches have become Roots , and the Roots Branches ; a Phenomenon totally inconsistent with vital , essential , and unlaterable Stamina .
In fine , if at last you resolve to stand by this one Resource , that at least every Individual proceeds from a Parent like itself ; that the original Germs , tho ' not wholly unchangeable , are yet sufficiently fixed to determine every Species , and that they are either lodged in these Parents , or secreted from the Elements by Strainers through their Bodies : I believe I can furnish , from my last Summer 's Observations , a Cloud of Instances , of a new Class of Beings , whose Origin has hituerro been unknown , wherein Animals grow upon , are produced by , and , in [ ] the strict Sense of the Word , brought forth from Plants ; then by a strange Vicissitude again become Plants of another Kind , these again Animals of another , and thus on for a Series , further than the utmost Power of Glasses can carry the most inquisitive Observer .
~ 16 .
It has generally been thought by Naturalists , that microscopical Animalcules were generated from Eggs transported through the Air , or deposited by a Parent Fly , invisible to the naked Eye , or even that assisted with Microscopes .
Yet is it strange that no Naturlist should yet have seen them , if they are really so numerous , when their supposed Progeny is so various , and themselves must be thought to be so frequently gliding over the Surface of all stagnant Waters .
By what extraordinary Turn is it brought about , might a Naturalist observe , that such surprising Revolutions should happen in these little Oceans , as a total Disappearance of one Species followed by the almost immediate Succession of another ; and that in a manner so sudden and unexpected , that I know not whither they are retired , or what new Forms they may have assumed .
If they die , does a whole Race perish together , without any known Cause ?
Or if they have taken any new Form , how is it that I see none of them altering , just altered , or expanding their little Wings upon these Waters , wherein I lately saw so many Millions in an aquatic State ?
If it is possible for them to become flying Insects in a manner totally invisible , why do not these new Parents again deposit their Spawn in the same Waters , and give a Succession of the late Species , that has disappeared ?
[ ] peared ?
The Element is not unfit for a new Progeny , since other Kinds succeed in it ; nay I can transport from neighbouring Infusions some of the same specific Animalcules into these abandoned Infusions , and they will live .
Nor yet has the Generation of this Species any peculiar Season which confines it : A fresh Infusion of the same animal or vegetable Substance I applied before , will give me again in a little time the very Kind I am enquiring after , and that as often as I think proper to add new Matter .
Thus might any Naturalist have reasoned , who had observed these Animalcules with some Attention ; and been gradually conducted to doubt of their supposed Origin from flying Insects , or Eggs transported by the Winds .
~ 17 .
But there is yet a severer Difficulty , that springs from the Consideration of Paste-Eels : These Animals , Mr. James Sherwood and I , by performing a kind of cesarean Operation upon them , had the Pleasure to observe were viviparous ; and the Royal Society , about the latter End of 1745 , or Beginning of 1746 , did us the Honour to give Attention to the Discovery , when Mr. Sherwood 's Paper * was read , and the Experiments exhibited at one of its Meetings .
I need not repeat what was at that time or has been since observed , where the Multiplication from one Eel once rose to 106 .
It is sufficient to observe , that these Animalcules mustthence consequently be thought to have arrived at their ultimate State of Perfection ; no longer liable to change , or to live in any other State ; too weighty , even the least of them , to be buoyed up by or transported * See Phil. Trans. No. 478 , p. 67 .
** [ ] transported through the Air , and too much of the aquatic kind to subsist out of Water , or to travel over dry Land , as I have often experienced , and any Gentleman may , by permitting the Water to evaporate .
The Question therefore is , how , in a Mass from the clearest Spring-water , and the purest WheatFlour , heated as intensely as the Composition will admit , these Animalcules may be generated ?
It is not but that I think myself sufficiently enabled , by my Experiments and Observations , to answer all these Questions , and perhaps many more of greater Importance ; but I have the strong Prejudice of near two learned Centuries , and the Opinions of Men of much more extensive Knowledge and Parts than myself , to stem and get over , before I can establish my own Sentiments upon this Subject ; and therefore am willing to hope I shall not appear to have chosen a tedious and unnecessary Circuit , in tracing out the several Steps I have taken , to place my Conduct in a more rational Light .
I must further observe , that I am obliged , previously to any of these Thoughts or Discoveries , to my Friend Mr. Hill , who translated and commented upon Theophrastus with so much Applause , for two Observations , made while I was at London , upon a Seed-Infusion he gave me , and the Semen of a Dog in his own House , which I , and some other Friends of the Society , saw ; a Peculiarity singular enough was , that the Animalcules seemed all hampered , and in some measure adhering by their supposed Tails , struggling as it were with a kind of oscillatory Motion to disengage themselves , and not advancing at all progressively .
The Consequence of this Observation , which sufficiently hinted that they were then [ ] enascent , and that their Tails were no Members given them by Nature to steer or swim withal , yet then escaped our Notice ; and was not plainly cleared up , till other similar and more distinct Observations upon this Class of Animalcules occurred some considerable Time after .
~ 18 .
It is now Time to observe how much I am obliged to Mr. de Buffon 's Penetration , who first engaged me in this Enquiry , by his ingenious System , which he was pleased to read to me , and at the same time expressed his Desire I should pursue it , before I had myself any Thoughts of it , or any one Experiment had been tried .
He had been long dissatisfied with the Opinion of pre-existent Germs in Nature ; and he and Mr. Maupertuis , President of the Academy of Sciences at Berlin , had often discoursed together upon the Subject .
We have several Hints of this Dissatisfaction , in a little Book , published by Mr. Maupertuis himself upon this Question at Paris , before my Arrival there ; in short , it was by general Reflections , and some other consequent Thoughts , that Mr. de Buffon was conducted to frame his System of organical Parts .
These he supposed , by Coalition , to constitute the prima Stamina of all animal and vegetable Bodies , simple , uniform , common to all , and consequently to be found in a certain Quantity in every Portion of Food , Aliment , or nutritive Juice ; and from thence to be digested , and when the Subject became adult , secreted , and strained , for the Formation of the Seed of every Plant and Animal ; and in this Fluid or Substance to be consequently found in much Abundance .
He further supposed these organical Parts to be moving when disengaged , living in Appearance , and gifted with certain Organs , but [ ] extremely simple in their Composition ; being perhaps little more than elastic Springs more or less compressed , more or less diversified in the Direction of their Force .
He thought the Calamary Machines I observed some time ago to be strong Proofs of his Opinion ; and the spermatic Animalcules to be Machines , or organical Parts like these .
~ 19 .
For my own part , I was then , as I had been before , so far of his Opinion , as to think there were compound Bodies in Nature , not rising above the Condition of Machines , which yet might seem to be alive , and spontaneous in their Motions ; such as the calamary Machines would certainly appear , if they were rendered so diminutive as to conceal their Mechanism , and such I then suspected the spermatic Animals to be : for Motion in general was but an equivocal Argument , and did not necessarily imply Life in the common Acceptance of that Term When , for a further Proof , I instanced Mr. Hill 's Seed-Infusion , wherein many Bodies were seen to move in a manner very different from Atoms in a fermenting Liquid , and yet not so seemingly spontaneous as microscopical Animalcules , he added , that in his System it must be so ; that these were detached organical Parts , and that the Seeds , and particularly the Germs of Seeds in Plants , must necessarily abound with them more than any other Substances .
Thus did our Enquiry commence upon SeedInfusions , from a Desire Mr. de Buffon had to find out the organical Parts , and I , if possible , to discover which among these moving Bodies were strictly to be looked upon as Animals , and which to be accounted mere Machines .
In the Course of this [ ] Paper I shall be as exact as possible , in philosophical Justice .
Whatever Experiments or Discoveries are to be ascribed to Mr. de Buffon , were the Result of his Directions , or jointly made with him , I shall so specify , that they may appear distinguished from all those others I made at home .
The four first Infusions , among them one of Almond-Germs carefully picked out from between the two Lobes and Kernel , I mixed up at my own Lodgings , and then closed them in Phials with Corks .
The Observations that occurred , were , first , a Separation or Digestion of the Parts of these Substances , and a continual flying off of the most volatile .
These offuscated my Glasses at every Instant , and , according to the Mixtures , yielded a fetid or an agreeable Odour ; particularly that of the Almond-Germs , one strongly spirituous .
Eight Days after they had been infused , I began to perceive a languid Motion in some of the Seed-PArticles , that before seemed dead ; such as gave me Encouragement to prosecute my Enquiry .
It was visible , that the Motion , tho ' it had then no one Characteristic of Spontaneity , yet sprung from an Effort of something teeming as it were within the Particle , and not from any Fermentation in the Liquid , or other extraneous Cause .
A distinct Atom would often detach itself from others of the same or less Dimensions ; and whilst these others remained absolutely unmoved , advance progressively for the Space of eight or ten of its own Diameters , or move in a little Orbit , then fall off languid , rest between two others , and detach itself again and again , with a Continuation of the the same Phenomenon .
The Consequences of these were obvious , the Motion was not spontaneous ; [ ] for these Atoms avoided no Obstacle , nor had any other Characteristic of Spontaneity .
It was not from any Commotion in the Fluid , Fermentation or the flying off of volatile Parts ; because a large Atom would frequently move and detach itself from a much less absolutely quiescent : They did not seem to be enascent Embryo Animals , from a Deposition of any extraneous Spawn ; for the Phials had been closed with Corks ; nay they were the very Seed , or the Almond-Germ Particles themselves .
~ 20 .
These same Observations Mr. de Buffon made himself ; for we examined these Infusions together a second time at his own House ; and then it was that he ordered fifteen Seed-Infusions to be made up , which we continued regularly to examine twice a Week , till I proposed to him to take them home , and follow them more closely by a daily or hourly Inspection , if necessary .
The Result of our first Observations was , that tho ' the Phials had been close stopped , and all Communication with the exterior Air prevented , yet , in about fifteen Days Time , the Infusions swarmed with Clouds of moving Atoms , so small , and so prodigiously active ; that tho ' we made use of a Magnifier of not much above half a Line focal Distance , yet I am persuaded nothing but their vast Multitude rendered them visible .
It seemed therefore as if the first teeming languid Particles we had observed , vast in their Dimensions , if compared with those we now saw , had broke and divided into this immense Multitude of microscopical active Atoms .
Then it was that we began to lay down a Distinction between animated and mere organiz 'd Bodies ; which , tho ' far from being [ ] at this time groundless , yet afterwards proved to be false .
These , and the spermatic Animals , we supposed to be of the latter kind ; and to be produced in their respective Fluids , by a Coalition of active Principles , much as I had seen the Calamary Machines formed by Hundreds , tho ' absolutely detached , and swimming at Liberty in the Milt of the Fish : whilst we thought on the contrary , that the ordinary Microscopica Animalcules , with strong Characteristics of spontaneous Motion and Animation , were to be classed among Animals , and imagined them to proceed from Parent Individuals of their own Species .
It was not till some time after this , that , determined to convince myself and others , without any Possibility of Doubt , whether these moving Atoms were really produced from without , or from the very Substance infused : I discovered all the common microscopical Animalcules , the spermatic ones not excepted , were to be ranged in the same Class , and that their Generation was very different from that of all other animated Beings .
~ 21 .
For my Purpose therefore , I took a Quantity of Mutton-Gravy hot from the Fire , and shut it up in a Phial , closed up with a Cork so well masticated , that my Precautions amounted to as much as if I had sealed my Phial hermetically .
I thus effectually excluded the exterior Air , that it might not be said my moving Bodies drew their Origin from Insects , or Eggs floating in the Atmosphere .
I would not instil any Water , left , without giving it as intense a Degree of Heat , it might be thought these Productions were conveyed through that Element .
Seeds or Plants were for this Reason [ ] son improper , because they might have been judged to have been previously adhering to these Plants or Seeds : I neglected no Precaution , even as far as to heat violently in hot Ashes the Body of the Phial ; that if any thing existed , even in that little Portion of Air which filled up the Neck , it might be destroyed , and lose its productive Faculty .
Nothing therefore could answer my Purpose of excluding every Objection , better than hot roast-Meat Gravy secured in this manner , and exposed for some Days to the Summer-Heat : and as I was determined not to open it , till I might reasonably conclude , whether , by its own Principles , it was productive of any thing , I allow 'd sufficient Time for that Purpose to this pure unmix 'd Quintessence , if I may so call it , of an animal Body .
From this time I take Corruption entirely in a philosophical Sense , for the rising of a dead Substance , by a new kind of Vegetation , into Life : and no Axiom , how much soever it may have been exploded , is more true than that of the Ancients , Corruption unius est Generatio alterius ; though they drew it from false Principles , and so established it as to render Generation equivocal , and never penetrated sufficlently into Nature by Microscopes , to discover this Class of Beings , that are neither generated nor generate in the common Way , yet furnish a Key to lead to the Generation of all others .
My Phial swarmed with Life , and microscopical Animals of most Dimensions , from some of the largest I had ever seen , to some of the least .
The very first Drop I used , upon opening it , yielded me Multitudes perfectly formed , animated , and spontaneous in all their Motions : And thus was I obliged to abandon not only the [ ] Notion preconceiv 'd of a Distinction to be made in this ~ of Animals , between those that appeared under a sensible Angle in the Microscope , and the atomical ones ; but even that Hypothesis also which I had advanced as probable , in the little Essay I published in 1745 , that spermatic Animals were no more than Multitudes of such Machines as those of the Calamary ; for now it was plain of what kind they were , and whence they derived their Origin .
~ 22 .
I shall not at this present time trouble you with a Detail of Observations upon three or four Scores of different Infusions of animal and vegetable Substances , posterior to these upon Mutton-Gravy ; all which constantly gave me the same Phenomenon with little Variation , and were uniform in their general Result : These may better appear at Length upon some other Occasion ; let it suffice for the present to take notice , that the Phials , closed or not closed , the Water previously boiled or not boiled , the Infusions permitted to teem , and then placed upon hot Ashes to destroy their Productions , or proceeding in their Vegetation without Intermission , appeared to be so nearly the same , that , after a little time , I neglected every Precaution of this kind , as plainly unnecessary .
I take no notice yet of their Manner of being generated and generating ; in relating these Discoveries , as I believe I shall be more intelligible , if I follow the Order of Time : It is a Justice moreover I owe both to Mr. de Buffon and myself ; for some were made by him alone , some by me , and some of them in Concert together : His System , the Detail of his System , his Experiments , my own Discoveries , my Thoughts ** [ ] in consequence of these Discoveries ; all these were reciprocally communicated ; we made a Secret of nothing to each other .
Thus where one Truth seems to lead to , or is the natural Consequence of another , it will be easy , from the Order I have observed , to see how much I have been obliged to his Penetration and Foresight .
But this will yet appear more distinctly , when our several Essays upon this Subject shall appear ; and in the second Volume of his Natural History , which will very soon be published , I must declare for a Fact , that all which precedes his Accounts of the Experiments , begun March 16 .
N. S. of this present Year 1748 , was previous either to his own Experiments or mine , and was read to me by himself .
~ 23 .
In this Order of Time therefore Mr. de Buffon not only repeated the Experiment I have taken notice of , and added particular Observations of his own , but made some entirely new in every respect , peculiar to himself .
Among these , that never to be forgotten by Naturalists , which at once destroys the Opinion of Eggs in viviparous Animals , and shows the real Use of those reddish glandulous Bodies observed by Vallisnieri upon the Testicles or Ovaries , as hitherto called , of Cows .
Every Anatomist knows , that the whitish Specks , near each of which a Hydatide is placed upon all Female Ovaries , were hitherto either looked upon to contain the real Female Eggs , or to be the remaining Scars of Eggs fecundated and dislodged .
Vallisnieri , nearer the Truth , thought the large reddish glandulous Bodies , which he calls Cherries , and found upon the Ovaries of Cows , and other Females , in the Time of their Heat , if the Animal is confined [ ] to any particular Season , or at any Time , in those Females which are unconfined in this particular , were the real productive Organs contributory alone to Generation ; yet still with a View to the ancient Opinion of Eggs , for he supposed-these glandulous Excrescences to be real oviparous Productions .
Mr. de Buffon , on the contrary , long before Observation had realised his Conjectures , rightly thought these to no more than temporary Blossoms , if I may so term them , not containing in their Cavity , which they have distince when they are ripe , an Egg , but the real Female Seed ; that the whitish Specks , scattered upon the Surface of Female Ovaries , were partly the remaining Scars of some of these temporary Blossoms now faded , as having performed their destined Office , or Embryo Blossoms not yet expanded ; that the Hydatid annexed to each of these contained a Quantity of imperfect indigested Seed ; and that , if we took the Blossom in time , when it should be entirely ripe for Action , as when a Female is in Heat , or not barren , these red glandulous Excrescences would furnish a Fluid as really productive of true spermatic Animals , or organical Parts , as he calls them , as that of any Male observed by Hartsoeker , Lewenhoeck , or any other .
The Result of these Conjectures was , that , ordering a Bitch in Heat to be strangled , and dissected immediately , we found two of these red Excrescences florid and ripe , one upon each Ovary , these , from their respective Cavities that ran obliquely under these Productions for near an Inch in Length , furnished a Tea-spoonful of a thick turbid Fluid ; and this Fluid , observed in the Microscope with the most powerful Magnifier , ** [ ] after some little time exhibited Numbers of spermatic Animals , in every respect like to those hitherto observed by other Naturalists , animated , and moving spontaneously .
Thus was Mr. de Buffon 's Conjecture verified in every Particular .
~ 24 .
About this Time , I think some few Days after , Mr. de Buffon in my Presence examined several Sorts of male Semen ; and then it was that , for the first time , we fairly saw the spermatic Animals enascent .
Those Kinds which satisfied us in this particular were extremely viscid , and contained in a certain Quantity in the Crystal of a Watch .
These Precautions are not unnecessary ; for if a viscid Kind be not chosen , and that in a good Quantity togehter , such as that of Stags , &amp;c. or any Seed of the least exalted Sort , if I may so term it , as we found some to be more so than others ; it will alter in the Atmosphere by an Evaporation of its volatile Parts , which serve to hold it though but gently together , after which it will liquesy , vegetate , ramify into Filaments , and these Filaments again break into moving Globules , especially if the Weather be hot , before a small Portion can be adjusted to the Microscope : whereby an Observer may easily be imposed upon , and think the spermatic Animals original and pre-existent , because he could not discern that Action which produced them .
This Deception takes Place in all Semen of the more exalted Kinds , such as particularly the Milt of Fish , when it is in a State of immediate Impregnation , and many others : For it is to be observed , that the Semen of Animals is not at all times in an equal State of Exaltation ; and consequently that some Sorts , [ ] or even the same at different times , will at some give the spermatic Animals immediately , but at others not so soon , and perhaps not under some Hours : which is the Reason why they have often been said by Naturalists , and even by Lewenhoeck himself , not to have been found upon Inspection .
By this it will appear , that we had tried many Sorts , before we had the good Fortune to meet with one , in that exact Degree of Exaltation necessary to exhibit the whole Process of this Vegetation ; and so may others who shall be desirous of trying these Experiments after us : Yet , when they shall at last have obtained a proper Subject , one accurate View will be sufficient , and found to give the Key to the whole Secret .
~ 25 .
When we had seized this favourable Opportunity , we saw a small Portion of male Semen placed on the Microscope , first , as it were to develope and liquesy , then shoot out into long Filaments , ramisy on every Side , these open and divide into moving Globules , and trailing after them something like long Tails ; these Tails were so far from being Members given them to swim and steer by , that they evidently caus 'd in them an instable oscillatory Motion ; and were in Effect nothing more than long Filaments of the viscid seminal Substance which they necessarily trailed after them ; they were of various Lengths in various Animals , and they insensibly , by the continual progressive Motion of those Animals , grew shorter and shorter , till some of them appeared without any at all , swimming equably in the Fluid .
It was then plain how these Animals were to be classed ; their Origia was clearly to be derived from Principles contained in [ ] this Matter , either by an Evolution of organical Parts , as Mr. de Buffon supposed , or by a real Vegetation , as I thought , of the same kind with those I had before observed in my Infusions ; tho ' more prompt , because the Matter was more exalted : consequently the spermatic Animals were of the same kind as all other microscopical Animals , their Origin the same , their Influence nothing more in Generation , nor any otherwise conducting to its Cause , than as Effects of those Principles in the Semen , which alone are the true and adequate Cause of it .
See Fig. 1 .
These vegetative Powers , which , from the very Beginning of my Observations , I had found to reside in all Substances animal or vegetable , and in every Part of those Substances , as far as the smallest microscopical Point , I had at this time certain Proofs of ; tho ' not so plain and incontestable as those I procured a few Days before Mr. de Buffon left Paris for the Country , and which I prosecuted after his Departure .
These I communicated to him in few Words the Night before he began his Journey , yet he was not at that time acquainted with any special Detail of the many Singularities that attend these latter Vegetations , for I had but just then made and entered upon the Discovery of them myself .
I am obliged the more particularly to observe this , because the many Consequences he has since drawn , as well as myself , and which , without any mutual Communication , happened to tally with and seemingly to flow from the Discoveries , were not in Fact deduced from a circumstantiated Knowledge of these new Phenomenon , which he had not , but from this one Principle , that there [ ] is a real productive Force in Nature ; in which we had both long since agreed , however we may have differed in explaining that Action : For whether it be by an Evolution and Combination of organical Parts , as Mr. de Buffon supposes , or by a real vegetating Force residing in every microscopical Point , may be probably far beyond the Power of Microscopes to determine .
But as the Principle from which we depart is entirely the same , it must necesarily lead to similar Thoughts , and similar Consequences .
~ 26 .
My first Proofs therefore were drawn from a close Attendance to all the common Infusions , particularly that of Wheat pounded in a marble Mortar .
It was plain from them all , that after some time allow 'd to the Water to call off the Salts and volatile Parts , which evaporated copiously , the Substance became softer , more divided , and more attenuated : To the naked Eye , or to the Touch , it appeared a gelatinous Matter , but in the Microscope was seen to consist of innumerable Filaments ; and then it was that the Substance was in its highest Point of Exaltation , just breaking , as I may say , into Life .
These Filaments would swell from an interior Force so active , and so productive , that even before they resolved into , or shed any moving Globules , they were perfect Zoophytes teeming with Life , and Self-moving .
If any Particle was originally very small and spherical , as many among those of the pounded Seeds were , it was highly agreeable to observe its little Star-like Form with Rays diverging on all Sides , and every Ray moving with extreme Vivacity .
The [ ] Extremities likewise of this gelatinous Substance exhibited the same Appearances , active beyond Expression , bringing forth , and parting continually with , moving progressive Particles of various Forms , spherical , oval , oblong , and cylindrical , which advanced in all Directions spontaneously , and were the true microscopical Animals so often observed by Naturalists .
This brings to my Mind a Phenomenon often taken notice of , and seen with Surprise , Particles detached by the Reaction of the Water from the Extremities of the Fins of Mussels , which yet continue to move progressively .
I think it sufficiently explained by these Observations ; and that it is more than probable , that Mussels , Polypes , and other Kinds of this Nature , vegetate in a Manner analogous to this gelatinous Matter .
See Fig. 2 .
~ 27 .
In the Infusion of pounded Wheat , the first Appearances , after an Exhalation of volatile Parts , as in every other Infusion , were the second or third Day Clouds of moving Atoms , which I suppose to have been produced by a prompt Vegetation of the smallest and almost insensible Parts , and which required not so long a Time to digest as the more gross .
These in a Day or two more entirely disappeared ; all was then quiet , and nothing to be seen , but dead irregularly formed Particles , absolutely unactive till about fourteen or fifteen Days after .
From these uniting into one Mass sprung Filaments , Zoophytes all , and swelling from a Force lodged within each Fibre .
These were in various States , just as this Force had happened to diversify them ; some resembled Pearl-Necklaces , and were a kind of microscopical Coralloids ; others were uniform [ ] throughout their whole Length , except just the very Extremity , which swelled into a Head like a Reed , if the Force had acted equally on all Sides , or like the Head of a Bone at its Joint , if the Matter in its Expansion had bore to either Side .
These Filaments were all Zoophytes , so teeming with Life , that whenever , upon taking a Drop from the Surface of this Infusion , I had separated the Extremity of a Filament so short as not to consist of above four or five Globules Chaplet-wise ; they would advance progressively and in Concert , with a sort of vermicular Motion , for a little Way , then fall off irregularly to one Side , as if not yet fitted for progressive Motion , languidly turn their Extremities , and then again lie quiet for some little time .
It was my Fortune however , not in this Infusion only , but in many others , to find some of these Chaplet-like Animals much smaller indeed than those of the WheatInfusion ; but entirely regular , constant in their vermicular Motion , and which were consequently arrived to a higher Degree of Maturity and Perfection .
I own I cannot but wonder to this Day at what I saw ; and tho ' I have now seen them so often , I still look upon them with new Surprise .
Yet have these Phenomenon served me to very good purpose , and cleared up many Difficulties in my former Observations .
The Origin of Blight in Wheat , Rye , and other Vegetables , was no longer mysterious : An Atmosphere charged to an extraordinary Degree with Humidity , now plainly appeared sufficient , particularly while the Grains were tender and replete with a milky [ ] Juice in a certain Degree of Exaltation , to produce in them this new kind of Vegetation , and to form their interior Substance into Filaments , which are indeed those very Eels I observed some Years ago in blighted Wheat .
This agrees perfectly with another Observation made by the Gentleman who translated my little Essay into French : Some of this blighted Wheat , two Years after I had gathered it , I had given to Mr. Trembley , and he to this Gentleman .
In a Note he has added , he observes , that these Filaments not only recovered Life and Motion , after they had been so long dry , by macerating them in Water ; but many broke , and discharged from within them Globules , which moved with extreme Vivacity .
The Application of the foregoing Observations to this Case is easy and natural ; nor is it now any Wonder , that these Filaments , the vegetative Force still residing within them , should move and resolve into Globules , or that they should have subsisted so long , full of that kind of Life they are actuated with , though dry and without Nourishment ; for now they cease to be Eels , as I formerly thought them .
Blighted Rye , which is also so full of Filaments of this Nature , that the Grains are swelled in their Diameters , and extended to an extraordinary Length by this new kind of Vegetation , exhibited nearly the same Phenomenon when macerated , and is to be classed accordingly .
I am told by some of the Gentlemen of the Royal Academy of Sciences here , that in those Provinces of France , where this blighted Rye abounds , and is made up into Bread ; it produces very strange Effects in the poor Country People who [ ] feed upon it , many of which are here found in the Hospitals afflicted with a very singular kind of Mortification , which causes their Limbs to drop off .
There are two Sorts of Blight , in one of which the Grain crumbles into a black Powder ; and the other is that which gives these moving Filaments or Eels .
Mr. Bernard de Jussieu tells me , that one is from a Corruption of the Flour , and the other of the Grain .
It may not here be amiss to hazard a few Queries .
Do not all Mortifications , and other Maladies in which there appears an extraordinary Exuberance of Matter in any one Part , proceed from a Weakness , a Want of Resistance , and from Principles of Union , which give to this vegetative Force , found to reside in every Point of animal or vegetable Substances , more Play in one Part than in another ?
For If the Resistance be not equal in all Parts , the exuberant Matter must break forth , and cause that Part to decompose ; and if the Habit of Body be extremely lax , the Decomposition must continue ; and that , in a certain extraordinary Degree , we shall call a Mortification .
To rub a Wound , or any natural Sore , with Salt and Spirits , is found to be salutary , and preventive of Mortifications ; and Salt I know , by Observation , will immediately put a Stop to these microscopical Vegetations , and cause the Animals to subside motionless to the Bottom : There fore it is probable , that Salts and Spirits are Principles of Union , and productive of a greater Resistance in the ductile Matter acted upon by this vegetative Force .
High Living , rich Wines , &amp;c. are Preservatives against many contagious epidemical Distempers : Do not therefore these Maladies arise from a laxer [ ] Habit of Body , and a more than ordinary Action of this same vegetative Force ?
And may not these , and many other Phenomenon of this kind , be reduced to the same Principles ?
But this I leave to the Consideration of Physicians , who are better Judges of the Extent of these Observations and Principles .
The Substance emitted from the Globules of the Farina faecundans of all Flowers , by an Action I observed some Years ago , is also a Substance of this Nature , filamentous , and in a vegetating State : Nothing can resemble it more than the Fibres of most kinds of Mould ; resolving all , as they do in Water , into others of a much finer Contexture , when the Vegetation , that had been before stopped by the nitrous Salts of the Atmosphere , begins by the Assistance of the Water to act again : And I know , by Observation , that all kind of Mould is formed by a Process of the same Nature as the Growth of these microscopical Plants ; and to be classed consequently with them , and reduced to the same Principles .
I cannot finish this Article without observing , that nothing can more perfectly than these wheaten Filaments , represent in Miniature Corals , Coralloids , and other Sea Plants , which have long been observed to be teeming also with Life , and have been supposed to be the Work of Animals , as it will appear to any one , that but inspects the Figure I have annexed , and recollects my Description .
Are not therefore all these in the same Class , and is not their Origin similar ?
See Fig. 2 .
~ 28 .
But these Instances from common Infusions , of a vegetative Force residing in every microscopical Point of animal or vegetable Matter , how [ ] strong soever and surprising , were neither so wonderful or extraordinary as some others I observed after Mr. de Buffon 's Departure .
From the wheaten filamentous Zoophytes it was easy to infer , that they sprung from , and were Productions of , the Mass of Matter that had subsided to the Bottom of the Phial .
Yet this I could not obtain a Sight of ; nor was it possible in this Way to observe them without separating them from their Roots and from the Mass , out of which they arose .
The Method the most natural therefore which occurred to me for the viewing of these Zoophytes , without disturbing their Vegetation , and for observing their whole Process , from the Origin of the Plants to their last Degree of Maturity , was to take extreme thin Slices of Cork , and insert , through little Holes which I made , four or five in each Slice , Grains of Wheat or Barley , or any other farinaceous Seed , for these all nearly agree in the Phenomenon they exhibit , with the Germ either turned upwards , or carefully picked out with the Point of a Penknife , to prevent their usual shooting .
These were permitted to swim upon the Surface of fresh Spring-water , in a Glass exposed to the Sun , that the whole vegetating Force might be determined downwards towards the inferior Moiety of each Grain , which alone could in these Circumstances imbibe and be saturated with Moisture .
This answered my Purpose entirely ; my Plants grews downwards into the Water like Corals , but appeared not till several Days after the Grains had been thus exposed ; and were at last so large and strong , that I could see them with my naked Eye .
[ ] When they became thus visible , I cut off with a small Pair of Scissors the vegetating Extremity , and placed it in a concava Object-Glass with Water .
The Plants then took a new Direction , follow 'd the Expanse of the Fluid , and continued to vegetate , while I supplied them with Water , which I did from time to time , covering them after Observation with another concava Object-Glass , to prevent the Fluid from evaporating too fast .
Thus I had for the Subject of my Observations what I may call a microscopical Island , whose Plants and Animals soon become so familiar to me , that I knew every animal Species , and every individual Plant almost without any Danger of Mistake ; an Exactness so necessary , that it would not otherwise have been possible to follow the Process of this Vegetation without Confusion .
From this time I laid aside the Use of large Infusions , and provided a certain Number of WatchChrystals , or concave Object-Glasses , for every Portion of animal or vegetable Substance I was to macerate in Water .
The Use of these is plain and easy ; many fruitful little Islands of various Kinds with Labels and Dates affixed to each may thus be obtained , by placing the vegetating Substances in these Glasses ; and this is the Method I would recommend to all those who shall be desirous to repeat or pursue my Experiments .
I find my Subject grows upon my Hands , and I am unwilling to take up too much of your Attention : I shall therefore finish these Observations by annexing a Figure of my Wheat-Island and its Productions , all which will be sufficiently intelligible without any more Words ; and I shall reserve a [ ] Multitude of other Observations I have by me in my Journals , upon Infusions and other vegetating Islands for the Essay , which I hope to publish in some Months , if these few Thoughts and Discoveries shall meet with Approbation .
See Fig. 3 .
~ 29 .
Yet must I trespass for a few Pages more ; I cannot conclude this Letter without laying down some general Truths , and recalling these scattered Remarks to some certain Principles .
A few Propositions of this kind , together with the probable Consequences , that seem naturally to flow from them , will not only make my System of Generation clear , but also take off many Objections , and render these very Observations better understood , when they are reduced under certain Heads .
It seems plain therefore , that there is a vegetative Force in every microscopical Point of Matter , and every visible Filament of which the whole animal or vegetable Texture consists : And probably this Force extends much farther ; for not only in all my Observations , the whole Substance , after a certain Separation of Salts and volatile Parts , divided into Filaments , and vegetated into numberless Zoophytes , which yielded all the several Species of common microscopical Animals ; but these very Animals also , after a certain time , subsided to the Bottom , became motionless , resolved again into a gelatinous filamentous Substance , and gave Zoophytes and Animals of a lesser Species .
This is not only true of all the common microscopical Animalcules , but of the spermaticalso ; which , after losing their Motion , and sinking to the Bottom , again resolved into Filaments , and again gave lesser [ ] Animals .
Thus the Process went on through all visible Degrees , till I could not any longer pursue them with my Glasses : And thus evidently the spermatic are to be classed with the common microscopical Animals .
Hence it is probable , that every animal or vegetable Substance advances as fast as it can in its Resolution to return by a slow Descent to one common Principle , the Source of all , a kind of universal Semen ; whence its Atoms may return again , and ascend to a new Life .
This common Element therefore , tho ' uniform in its Origin and homogeneous , branches out into innumerable Species more and more compounded , more and more heterogeneous , as they depart and are further from this Source of organiz 'd Bodies ; yet may a Particle often be arrested , or moulded into other Bodies , long before it attains , which some perhaps never do , to this ultimate Resolution .
Nor is there any Danger upon these Suppositions of falling into equivocal Generation ; because the specific Semen of one Animal can never be moulded into another , and Seeds may differ specifically from one another by many invisible Principles totally unknown to us , and unattainable by Experiments ; for we are very certain that the Power of Glasses , or Force of any Menstruum we can employ , must still leave us at an immense Distance from the ultimate Resolution of Bodies , in which alone they agree , and are homogeneous .
I say therefore the specific Seed of one Animal can never give another of a different Species ; for , to be this specific Seed , it must have gone through many Changes from its first Origin , and have many Singularities peculiar to itself , and acquired since it passed from the homogeneous Element , in which all Kinds coincide .
The active vegetative Force that resides in it must be precise , its Quantity must be exactly proportioned to the Nature , Solidity , Tenacity , Quantity , and Resistance of the ductile Matter it has to wade through , if I may so express myself ; and these Combinations are very different in different Subjects , Thus much the many Strainers in every animal Body , necessary to extract this Semen from the Aliment we daily digest , and to prepare it , seem evidently to imply .
Yet is not this , sufficient as it may appear to cause Varieties in the several Species of Semen , all that is to be considered : Times and Circumstances make Changes in it even during the Term of Gestation .
What does not the Faetus then undergo ?
and who can determine the Differences between Matrix and Matrix ; between the Matter that is assimilated into a Faetus in one Subject , and that in another ; between the fixing Principles , the Quantity of Salts , Spirits , &amp;c. in a Parent of one Species , and one of another ; between the more copious or more limited Affluences of assimilating Matter ; and between Times , where even single Minutes , Instants , &amp;c. may be of the greatest Consequence ?
I see the Whole indeed , but confusedly ; yet do I see the Source of a Variety ; which , boundless as it were , if permitted to expatiate at full Liberty , is nevertheless invariably confined , by Him who made and rules the Universe , to a certain determinate Number of Species .
Time , Action , Season , Quantity of Force , Quantity of Resistance , fixing Principles , Affluence of assimilated Matter , Direction , and numberless other Variations , are all employed for His Purposes , and modelled by that Almighty Power , which forms and directs the Whole .
Thus do these Principles , however capable of differing Combinations , yet admit only of a limited Variation , and never deviate further than is consistent with univocal Generation .
Monsters , Mules , imperfect Faetus 's , and other Instances of this kind , are but rare ; and as they can be ascribed to nothing so properly as to the Obstacles they meet with , or to some accidental insuperable Resistance in the Matter of which they are formed , they do at least serve to show that there is in Nature a real productive Force given it at its Creation ; and that animal or vegetable Productions are not the Consequences of pre-existent Germs , plastic Natures , or of the immediate Hand of God himself , any more than the most regular Operations of the Planetary World .
~ 30 .
But to proceed in my Consequences from these Observations , all Naturalists must acknowledge , that the more compounded the organiz 'd Bodies are , the less Danger there is of equivocal Generation in the Production of them ; for thus the immediate Principles from which they spring , and their Circumstances during the Time of Gestation , must be much more varied than the more simple Bodies are , and at the same time be further removed , from that universal Element into which they may all ultimately be resolved : And even in the lowest Class of microscopical Animals , I can truly say , that I never yet observed any others than Productions specifically determined ; the same Substances giving the same Plants and Animals , and in the same uniform Order der and Descent .
Nevertheless , tho ' thus specifically determined , no one , that observes their Origin with the same Care as I have done , will be inclined to ascribe it to pre-existent Germs : It is therefore probable , as I just now advanced , that when we arrive at the lowest we can discover in this Class , we are yet at an immense Remove from the universal Source ; notwithstanding that some of them are small beyond Conception , and no less simple in their Motions ; which argues their Organization as simple , and seems to imply that there are among them , or not at a very great Distance from them , such as are only mere Machines , without any true Spontaneity .
I have myself seen a vast Gradation , and such a one as I have yet but an imperfect Notion of , in a Course of continual Observations made upon Infusions and Macerations of all kinds , from the most compounded to the most simple ; from Animals of the largest kind to moving Atoms of the least ; from Motions as flow to the most powerful Magnifier , as the Motion of the Minute-Hand of a Watch to Eyes unarmed ; from free Progression in all Directions to merely oscillatory Balances ; which all seem to come to at last in the Course of their Decomposition , when they are just upon the Point of disappearing .
~ 31 .
Thus these Animalcules , if they may be called indifferently by that Name , manifestly constitute a Class apart ; and their greatest Characteristic is , that they neither are generated , subsist by Nutriment , as other Plants and Animals do , or generate in the ordinary Way .
This is indeed true , if the whole Class is taken in one general View : Yet is the Head of it united to the Species of the next im6* 2 mediate mediate Superior .
The Bell-Animal , of which I have had many from my infused Substances , and whose Growth I have pursed from its first Origin , is a Species of microscopical Polype , generating and feeding as other Polypes do , when once itself is generated ; tho ' its own original Generation is perhaps different from that of the others ; for I could never obtain any of the larger Kinds this Way .
I say this however with some Reserve ; for I will not assert but that some decayed Water-Plants decomposing in particular Circumstances , and their Substance exuberateing , may perhaps , when urged by this vegetative Force , give Polypes of every Kind ; nay I very much suspect , that several of the lowest Kinds of visible Animals may , in due Circumstances , which yet perhaps are rare , be recoverable this Way , when the whole Species has perished in particular Places by some uncommon Accident .
This I the more readily believe , from the Reasonableness of some Allowances to be made in this respect ; all which may be permitted , and must have been foreseen by the GREAT CREATOR , without any Danger of Confusion , or an unlimited Generation of new Species never before produced : He who made Nature , and sees through the whole Machine , well knew its utmost Force , and has consequently foreseen every Circumstance , and limited its Productions accordingly .
Nor indeed can there be a stronger Argument derived from any System of Generation whatsoever , of an All-wise Being , All-powerful , and All-good , who gave to Nature its original Force , and now presides over it , than from the Consideration of an exuberating ductile Matter , actuated with a vegetative tive Force , limited , tho we know not its exact Bounds , in its specific Ascent or Descent , and expanding itself in Directions as certain and determinate , as the Motions of the Plants .
~ 32 .
These Thoughts will appear to be less hazarded , if due Attention is given to the Generation of the Paste-Eel .
The Royal Society knows it to be viviparous ; consequently perfect in this State , and such as may continue to generate in the common Way , as long as it has an Element and Matter proper for its Subsistence ; yet is its own original Generation , as far as I can learn by Observation , as that of all these microscopical Animalcules , from a ductile vegetating Matter , the Produce of Wheat-Flour and Water ; tho ' it undergoes more Changes than others , and lives in other Conditions ; ascending for some time before it enters its chrysalidal or Egg-like State , whence it comes forth a perfect Eel .
I have added a Figure of a Group of these Eel-Chrysalids , but the Detail of their Metamorphosis I shall reserve for my little Essay , and not trouble you now with an Account too circumstantiated of every Observation I have made upon them : Besides that I am not yet thoroughly satisfied in the whole Manner and Process of their Generation .
See TAB. V. Fig. 4 .
~ 33 .
But now , to obviate every Objection that may remain against the Existence of this vegetative Force , which seems to be the Key to much Knowledge , and to remove many Errors ; it may be proper to add , that , besides ocular Demonstration , which any Naturalist may have , besides the Precautions I took , that no supposed Germs might either be conveyed through the Air or the Water , or remain adhering hearing to the Substances infused ; I have often , for these Purposes , made use not only of hot Broth , immediately closed up in a Phial , but also of pure animal Substances , such as Urine , Blood , &amp;c. with the same Success ; and in these , I believe , no one will suppose that Germs , Eggs , or Spawn , are pre contained , if Care is taken to close the Phials immediately .
Nay I have done more ; I have , by reasoning consequently to my Principles , been directed to the Choice of many Experiments , all which I constantly found to answer my Expectation : I have thought , for instance , that the more exalted an animal Substance was , by a certain Degree of Decomposition , the more apt would it be to vegetate in a proper Matrix , and form the Part of a larger Animal ; or , if it extravasated , to vegetate into the lesser ; consequently , that if I took the milky Juice of germing Seeds , or that thick turbid Matter which forms the Wing of a Butterfly in its chrysalidal State , these Matters must be more exalted than any ordinary Substances , and therefore give me these microscopical Productions so much the sooner : And in fact , I never , in these Cases , failed of seeing them within the Space of a few Hours , while ordinary Infusions did not give them under several Days .
Here it will be proper to observe , that Naturalists have thought the Butterfly 's Wing pre-existent in the Caterpillar , because they discovered the first Rudiments of it three or four Days before it entered the chrysalidal State ; but it is then precisely that the Caterpillar first leaves off eating , tho ' before extremely voracious ; and that probably upon account count of the Revolution it finds in all its Parts , while its Forces are otherwise employed , and the Collection of vegetating ductile Matter it had acquired by plentiful Diet , now as plentifully exuberates to form the Parts of the Butterfly .
These Truths I am the better acquainted with , because I have particularly examined all those Substances : You cannot tear off a Portion of the Butterfly 's Wing , even while in the Chrysalid , but you will find it in an Embryo-State , and the Matter which extravasates upon your Object-Glass , if mixed with a little Water to preserve its Fluidity , will almost immediately vegetate into these microscopical Productions .
This argues an extreme Activity in it ; from Activity follows Action , and an Effect , which can be no other than the Formation of the Wing it was contained in .
~ 34 .
Without instancing in many other Examples , where , by reasoning from these Principles , I was invariably conducted to certain Consequences , this last sufficiently leads to the Nature of animal or vegetable Semen .
These latter are Substances of the same sort , but more exalted , and from thence adapted to a prompter Vegetation .
Of this kind also , but not so exalted , was the gelatinous Substance I obtained by common Infusions .
The Exaltation however of Matter does not stop here ; the lower I pursued this new Class of Beings in its Descent , the less was this vegetating Force clogged with resisting Matter , the swifter was the Motion of the Bodies , and the higher the Degree of Exaltation that produced them .
This inclines me to believe , that an animal Substance may be exalted this way into a Poison , a Venom , or a contagious Vapour .
Hence stagnating Waters are poisonous and detrimental ; and hence perhaps the vipereal Venom , or any other , may derive its Force ; for these undoubtedly are all animal Secretions .
Hence perhaps also arise contagious epidemical Distempers , from a Leaven thrown into the Blood by Exhalations of this kind .
I am the more persuaded of the Truth of this , from the Consideration of Dr. Mead 's Observations upon the Venom of the Viper : And swift moving Bodies , which subside and shoot into Filaments , seem manifestly to imply all these Consequences .
I had myself proposed last Summer to try the Effects of some of my most exalted Infusions , by instilling them into the Veins of Animals ; but as yet I have had no Opportunities for these Experiments .
I might add other plausible Con ectures , that seem to be the natural Consequences of these Discoveries , relating to the Origin of Ascarides , Teniae , Agaricks , &amp;c. nay , perhaps I could maintain them with Arguments that would seem convincing to most Naturalists ; I might even further suppose , with some Probability , that the muscular Force , which acts against the interstitial Air in my Friend Dr. Parsons 's most ingenious System , in one Word , that all the mechanical Forces of the Body , and the Impressions which affect the Soul , may be derived from , and ascribed to , this vegetating active Force when confined : But I am tired with extending my Views so far , nor do I at present see an End of the Consequences ; the Subject and Principles appear so boundless .
~ 35 .
I shall conclude therefore with summing up my System in a few Words : I suppose all Semen of any kind to be an exalted Portion of animal or vegetable Matter , secreted from the Aliment of every generating Subject , when it is adult , and no further Demand is made for its Increase and Growth ; this I suppose to be endued with a proportionable vegetative Force ; to be various in various Circumstances , and heterogeneous in different Subjects ; but to be uniform in its Productions , when it falls into a proper Matrix , where it finds Matter to assimilate , of a Quality and in a Quantity sufficient to form that specific Being ; whilst in other Circumstances , it will , if it extravasates , by the same vegetating Force , yield all the several Phenomenon I have above taken notice of .
And thus , if I am not mistaken , I have obtained what I first intended to make out , that the spermatic Animals are not the efficient Cause of Generation , but only a necessary Consequence of Principles in the Semen , which Principles are necessary to Generation .
Thus have I connected my System with our Countryman Dr. Harvey 's Observation of that fine Tissue , or Web-like Expansion , observed in the Uterus of Does , in the Center of which the Embryo Faetus , invested with its Amnion and Chorion , was found to be lodged : For let the Vegetation begin from the Semen , and continue to assimilate the affluent Matter from the Matrix wherein it has taken Root , and the Fawn must come forth like any other specific Animal or Plant .
I shall only observe , that Lewenhoeck had disco ver 'd this vegetating Power in the Semen , and bad like Mr. de Buffon and me , seen the Filaments from whence the spermatic Animals spring ; he even calls them Nerves and Arteries ; and in one of his Letters to Mr. Oldenburg says , that he saw more in one Minute than the most accurate Anatomist could discover by Dissection in a Day : But when he afterwards changed this System , false as it was , of Nerves and Arteries for another , I believe , as false , that of pre-existing Germs in the spermatic Animals , he neglected to improve this Observation as he might have done ; nay he afterwards took no farther Notice of it , but barely to say , that it was to be neglected .
This Remark I had from Mr. de Buffon .
The Difference therefore betwixt Mr. Lewenhoeck and Dr. Harvey was , that the first had an Hypothesis to maintain , and the latter nothing in View but to follow Nature , without trusting too much to the first Phenomenon , as I hope I shall appear to have done in this my Enquiry .
I had almost forget one Remark that coincides with my System ; that although animal and vegetable Substances by a chemical Analysis appear to differ , they are nevertheless found by a natural Corruption to be reducible to the same Principles .
This has been observed long ago by many Naturalists .
And now I think I have nothing more to add , only that I would be understood , when I speak of a productive Force in Nature , &amp;c. to mean only a Force , which , tho ' modelled by the SUPREME CREATOR , goes no further than the mechanical and material Parts of a Man .
I well know that we are composed of two very different Principles ; and no one mere philosophical Truth whatsoever presents itself to me with more Evidence or Conviction than the Spirituality of our immortal Soul .
All have ever allow 'd Man in his Origin to be a kind of Plant or Vegetable before he is animated ; and all rational Men have derived his Animation immediately from the Fountain of Life , the true Source of all spiritual Substances .
I think I have said no more ; and thus only would be taken and explained .
The Principle of Life in other Animals I do not examine into , nor do I think it necessary .
If they are truly spontaneous , as they seem to be , they have certainly some Principle distinct from Matter , which the GREAT CREATOR knows when and how to unite .
This Exposition , Sir , of my Sentiments , I thought might be necessary ; not that I imagined that either you , or any of the Gentlemen of the learned Society in which you preside , would think my Principles any way tending to Materialism , from which no one can be more distant or averse than myself ; for I well knew that I had nothing to apprehend from Persons of so much Judgment and Discernment , and who could not but clearly see , that there is really no Connection between those Principles , rightly explained , and the Doctrine of the Materialists : But I was willing to guard against the Misapprehension of others less acquainted with Matters of this sort , and into whose Hands this Paper might come , and have therefore taken these Precautions .
And now , Sir , I take this Occasion of returning my most humble Thanks both to yourself , and to the rest of the Gentlemen of the Royal Society , for the Honour I have received , in being elected one of its Members , and for which I have not been 7* 2 able able as yet to make my personal Acknowledgments I hope both you and they will accept these Thoughts favourably , which are humbly submitted to impartial Inquiry by the Author , who is , with the utmost Esteem and Respect , SIR , Your obliged humble Servant , Turbervill Needham .
Explanation of the Figures in TAB. V. Fig. 1 .
Represents the Origin of the spermatic Animals .
Fig. 2 .
The Wheat-Infusion .
Fig. 3 .
What I have called an Island in the WheatInfusion .
Fig. 4 .
A Group of the Chrysalids of the PasteEels .
Fig. 5 .
Is a Draught of one of the first microscopical Plants or Zoophytes which I discovered ; wherein A shows the Figure of the Plant throwing out its Animals , and B the same again after the Animals were discharged , again putting out a new Shoot from the Stem below , through the hollow transparent Head , to form a new Head , and produce another Generation .

