Account of an Assemblage of Fossil Teeth and Bones of Elephant , Rhinoceros , Hippopotamus , Bear , Tiger , and Hycena , and sixteen other Animals ; discovered in a Cave at Kirkdale , Yorkshire , in the year 1821 : with a comparative View of five similar Caverns in various Parts of England , and others on the Continent .
By the Rev , William Buckland , F.R.S. F.L.S. Vice President of the Geological Society of London , and Professor of Mineralogy and Geology in the University of Oxford , c. 8fC .
8fc .
Read February 21 , 1822 .
[ Phil , Trans. 1822 , p. 171 .
] The rock in which the cavern , mentioned in the title of this paper , is formed , is that species of limestone called Oolite .
Its greatest length is from 250 to 300 feet , and its breadth and height vary from two to seven feet , there being few places in which it is possible to stand upright .
Its bottom was covered by a sediment of mud , and the roof and sides , as well as the surface of the mud , were encrusted by stalactitic matter .
The animal remains were found , not upon the surface , but in the lower part only of this muddy deposit , and in the stalagmitic accumulations beneath it , and were thus remarkably preserved from decay .
The teeth and bones hitherto discovered are those of the hyaena , fox , bear , of an animal of the tiger kind , of the elephant , rhinoceros , hippopotamus , and horse , of the ox and some species of deer , of the water rat and the rabbit .
They were strewed promiscuously over the bottom of the cave ; the bones , with very few exceptions , being broken and apparently gnawed ; for upon many of them marks were detected fitting the form of the canine teeth of the hyaenas that were found there : whence it appears probable that this was oice a den of hywenas , who dragged into its recesses the other animal bodies , whose remains are mixed indiscriminately with their own ; a conjecture , says the author , rendered almost certain , by the discovery of a portion of solid calcareous excrement , recognized by the keeper of the Menagerie at Exeter'Change , from its resemblance to that of the Cape hywena ; the analysis , too , of this excrement shows its derivation from bones , as it consists chiefly of phosphate and carbonate of lime .
It appears from the researches of M. Cuvier , that the fossil hyaena was nearly one third larger than the largest of the modem species , of the habits of which the author gives an account , with a view of verifying and illustrating his opinion concerning the state and origin of the contents of the Yorkshire cave .
Even the abundance of the remains of water rats , he says , is consistent with the omnivorous appetite of modern hyaenas .
In respect to ruminating animals , as they form the ordinary food of beasts of prey , the quantity of their bones is not surprising ; but the abundant occurrence of some of the other remains , in a cave of the dimensions of that described , is not so obvious ; since such animals as the elephant , rhinoceros , and hippopotamus , could not possibly have found an entrance , and since it is foreign to the habits of the hyaena to prey on the larger pachydermata .
As a solution of this difficulty , the author supposes that the remains in question are those of individuals who died a natural death ; and though the hyaena would neither have had strength to kill an elephant or rhinoceros , nor to drag home the entire carcase of a dead one , yet he might convey the most bulky animals piecemeal into his den , supposing them to have died in the neighbourhood .
From this view of the subject it appears probable that the accumulation of these bones went on during a succession of years , while the animals in question were natives of this country ; and the general dispersion of similar bones through the diluvian gravel of high latitudes , over a great part of the northern hemisphere , shows that the period at which they inhabited these regions was that immediately preceding the formation of this gravel , and that they perished by the waters that produced it .
Moreover , as all these animals belong to species now unknown , and as there is no evidence of their ever having existed subsequent to the formation of the diluvium , we may conclude that the period at which the bones were introduced into the Kirkdale cave was antediluvian .
That these extinct species never re-established themselves after the deluge , seems proved by the total absence of their remains in the varieties of postdiluvian accumulations of sand , mud , and peat , in which , however , we find the remains of horses , deer , and some other animals .
The phenomena , then , of this cave seem referable to a period at which the world was inhabited by land animals bearing only a general resemblance to those now existing , before the last inundation of the earth .
So completely , however , had the violence of that tremendous convulsion destroyed and remodelled { the form of its antediluvian surface , that it is only in caverns protected from its ravages that we may hope to find undisturbed evidence of the events occurring in the immediately antecedent period ; and such seem to be the bones and stalagmite formed before the introduction of the diluvian mud in the Kirkdale cave .
The author then proceeds to take a general view of the operations successively going on in this cave , founded upon his previous minute descriptions of its contents ; of its earliest period when it was an unoccupied aperture ; of its second period , when tenanted by hyzenas , during which , as well as the former , stalagmite and stalactite were forming , though necessarily interrupted by the ingress and egress of its lodgers ; of the third period , when the animals were extirpated and the mud introduced , and which appears therefore to have been that of the deluge ; and of the fourth and last period , during which the superficial stalagmite incrusting the mud was formed , and in which no creature appears to have entered the cave till it was opened last summer , and no other process to have been going on than the uninterrupted formation of stalactite .
The strata of diluvial sediment seem to mark the point of time at which the latter state of things began , and the former ceased ; and the limited quantity of postdiluvian stalactite , no less than the undecayed condition of the bones , tends to show that the time elapsed since the introduction of the mud has not been of excessive length .
Professor Buckland concludes this paper with an application of the arguments arising out of the detail of facts which it contains , to the illustration of other similar phenomena , where the evidence of their origin is less complete ; of these , five are in our own country , and the author avails himself of their history , together with that of the Kirkdale cave , to elucidate the account of analogous caverns , which have been more , or less perfectly examined in various parts of the Continent of Europe .

