10 .
" On the Water Barometer erected in the Hall of the Royal Society , " by J. F. Daniell , Esq. F.R.S. Professor of Chemistry in King 's College , London .
The author having long considered that a good series of observations with a water barometer would be of great value as throwing light upon the theory of atmospheric tides , of the horary and other periodic oscillations of the barometer , and of the tension of vapour at different temperatures , was desirous of learning whether any such series of observations had ever been made .
But he could meet with none having any pretensions to accuracy ; for neither those of Otto Guericke , in whose hands the water barometer was merely a philo ?
sophical toy , nor the cursory notices of the experiments of Mariotte upon this s'ubject contained in the History of the French Academy of Sciences , can be considered as having any such claim .
The difficulties which opposed the construction of a perfect instrument of this kind long appeared to be insurmountable ; but the author at length proposed a plan for this purpose , which , having been approved of by the late Meteorological Committee of the Royal Society , was ordered by the President and Council to be carried into execution .
The author then enters fully into the details of the methods he employed for constructing the whole of the apparatus , and for placing it in its present situation in the centre of the winding staircase conducting to the apartments of the Royal Society .
The tube was very skilfully made by Messrs Pellatt and Co. at the Falcon Glass-house .
It was 40 feet long , and one inch in diameter at its lower end ; and so nearly cylindrical , throughout its whole extent , as to diminishonly by two tenths of an inch at its upper end .
A second tube of the same dimensions was also made as a provision in reserve against any accident happening to the first .
These tubes were both securely lodged in a square case by means of proper supports .
A small there ?
mometer with a platina scale , was introduced into the upper end of the tube .
An external collar of glass was united to that endby heat ?
ing it .
This was done with a view of giving it additional support , and of preventing it from slipping .
This end of the tube was then drawn out into a fine tube ready for sealing with the blowpipe ? .
and a small stopcock was fitted on to it .
The cistern of the barometer was formed by a small copper steam boiler , 18 inches long , 11 wide , and 10 deep , capable of being closed by a cock , and having at the bottom a small receptacle for holding the lower end of the tube , so as to allow of the water in the cistern being withdrawn , without dis ?
turbing that contained in the tube .
The boiler was set with brickwork , in a proper position , over a small fire-place .
It was nearly filled with distilled water , which was made to boil thoroughly so as to free it from air ; and the cock being then closed , the water was raised in the tube by the pressure of the steam collected in the upper part of the cistern .
The tube , when filled , was hermetically closed at the top : a proper scale , constructed by Newman , was applied to it , great care being taken to determine its height and to ensure the accuracy of its adjustments , and the precision of its measurements , by an exact mode of reading ; and also to provide proper corrections for temperature .
The water in the cistern was protected from contact with the air by being covered with pure castor oil to the depth of half an inch .
The mercurial ba ?
rometer employed as a standard of comparison , was of a portable construction , and was provided with a platina guard .
An account is then given of some of the results of the observations made with this water barometer , arranged in several sets of tables .
The great object was to obtain good and uninterrupted series of observations , taken , at least once a day , at a fixed hour .
The registers given by the author , contain such observations , continued for nearly a year and a half , namely , from October 1830 to March 1832 .
Some curious results are afforded by these observations .
In windy weather the column of water is found to be in perpetual motion , not unlike that from the breathing of an animal .
Many considerable fluctuations in the pressure of the atmosphere are rendered sensible by the motions of an aqueous column , which would totally escape detection by the ordinary mercurial barometer .
Mr. Hudson remarked in the course of his observations , that the rise and fall of the water-barometer precedes by one hour the similar motions of the mercurial one .
The most striking result of the comparison between the two , is the very near coincidence of the elasticity of the aqueous vapour , as deduced from the experiments , with its amount , as determined from calculation , in a range of temperature from 58 ?
to 74 ? .
But a gradually increasing difference was at length perceptible , show ?
ing that gaseous matter had by some means insinuated itself into the tube .
When this became no longer doubtful , the boiler was opened , and it was found that a portion of the liquid oil had escaped ; and that the remainder had become covered with large flakes of a mucilaginous substance , by means of which it is probable that a communication had been established between the air and the water .
The water had , however , retained its purity , and no indication was afforded of the metal having been anywhere acted upon .
The author recomrnends that if these researches are prosecuted , the water should be covered with a stratum of oil of four or five inches in depth , which hc has reason to think will form an effectual barrier to all atmospheric influence .

