[ 385 ] XIV .
On the Structure and Development of the Wing in the Common Fold .
By William Kitchen Parker , F.R.S. Received January 13 , *\#151 ; Read January 27 , 1887 .
Revised June 18 , 1888 .
[ Plates 62-65 .
] Introduction .
Of late years , while the structure of the skull has greatly occupied me , the rest of the skeleton has been neglected in comparison .
A quarter of a century ago , or more , the whole skeleton , in Birds especially , occupied much of my thought ; and from an even earlier period I have never ceased to gather together embryos and young Birds of all kinds , which should some day serve for a renewal of the work .
In this short paper , dealing with a single region , and that principally in a single type , I give the first-fruits of a revised study of the Bird 's skeleton .
Many recent workers have dealt with the development of one part or other of the Bird s wing , hut it seemed to me that we had from none of them a minute account of the successive changes in any one form .
And now , having made such a study , I think I have not failed to draw some new facts from it .
I have carefully worked out the structure of the carpus in the Chick of seven days and older .
I find that the two persistent carpals of the Bird 's wing , the radiale and ulnare of authors , show evidence of being compound structures , probably containing within themselves remnants of an intermedium and a centrale .
The distal row of carpal elements was particularly in want of further study .
I have figured various stages in the development of the three elements which constitute it , and have traced them up to their final vestigial rudiments in the co-ossified " carpo-metacarpus of the adult .
All these points I have verified by an examination of many other , principally Gallinaceous , Birds . . .
Next , I have traced the development of the three metacarpal bones , with their changes in form and in position .
In connection with them I find certain small cartilaginous elements , which soon lose their independence , but leave traces m the full-grown wing , viz. ( a ) a cartilage to the radial side of the first metacarpal , in the position occupied by the spur of many Birds , which calls to mind the described by * Under the title " The Morphology of Birds " ( see ' Proceedings , ' vol. 42 , p. 52 ) .
g j-j 11.12.88 Bardeleben , Kehrer , and others , in Amphibians , Beptiles , and even Mammals ; ( b ) a cartilage to the ulnar side of the third digit , which probably is a remnant of the aborted fourth digit ; and ( c ) certain cartilages of more doubtful nature developed in connection with the index finger , to its ulnar side , and afterwards fusing with it .
Lastly , I have made new observations on the small distal phalanges in the Fowl and other Birds , and on the rudimentary nails or claws of the second and third digits ; and I have added a short revision of the structure of the wing through the Batitae .
Since Gegenbaur* * * S spoke the last weighty word upon the structure of the Bird 's wing , no new facts have transpired to make us re-open the question of the homologies of the three digits with the pollex , index , and medius of other groups .
Nothing in the skeleton , the muscles , or the development of the limb contradicts this acceptance , to the best of my knowledge .
I take it for granted accordingly in this paper.t The Development of the Carpus .
In the seven-days Chick , the hyaline cartilages of the wrist are still somewhat indefinite in outline , and imperfectly solid .
The elements which form subsequently the two permanent carpals are clearly visible ( Plate 62 , fig. 1 , c.u.t and i.r. ) , and are developed in close relation with the extremities of the radius and ulna .
The one to the radial side is very much the largest , as well as the most solid , of the carpal elements at this stage .
Its distal end gives support to the pollex , and proximally it passes upwards in a great wedge between the radius and ulna .
In the Fowl this element is from the first single , yet its shape and position at this period suggest that it contains in itself the equivalent of an intermedium as well as of a radiate .
In certain Birds , e.g. , the Falcons , I have found that it actually divides afterwards into two sub-equal masses , and in one Bird at least , the Yellow Whrbler ( Dendroecacestiva ) , the intermedium carpi has been already figured \ in such a position as to indicate its severance from the radiate .
I look , then , upon the so-called radiate of the I owl s wing as really a compound structure , and shall designate it as intermedio-radiale for the future .
S The element on the ulnar side , the ulnare of the adult , is a much smaller , sub-crescentic mass of cartilage , lying to the free side of the pointed extremity of the ulna , but wedging its way , towards the middle line of the carpus , into contact with the intermedio-radiale .
The " ulnare " is known to have in many Birds a remarkable extension towards the centre of the carpus , and in some cases it has been found to b$ actually double .
Long ago I found in one of the Palamedese , viz. , Chauna chavana , * ' Carpus u. Tarsus , ' 1864 .
t This view is however dissented from by Owen , Wyman , and Cottes .
+ Morse , 'Annals Lyceum Not .
Hist. , New York , 1874 , p. 146 , fig. 44 .
S Both in this Bird and in the seven-days Chick we notice especially how the intermedia !
element is wedged far up between radius and ulna , as Gegenbaur found it in Menopoma , Emys , and some others , bu more abundantly in the hind limb .
or THE WING IN THE COMMON FOWL .
two ulnar carpals , apparently an ulnareproper and a centrale .
More recently , in a more normal Chenomorph , the Falkland Island Goose ( poliocephala ) , I found the ulnare nearly divided into two segments .
And Morse ( loc. cit. ) has already figured in the King-bird ( Tyrannus)an independent nucleus , supposed to be the in close relation with the ulnare on its outer or radial side .
I am inclined , therefore , to think that this ulnar carpal in the Fowl represents , like its radial fellow , two elements ; and I propose to call it the centralo .* * * S The result at which we have arrived in regard to the fusion of intermedium and centrale with radiale and ulnare respectively is a somewhat surprising one .
A study of the carpus in Amphibia and Kept ilia seldom , if ever , shows an arrangement of parts which would lead naturally to such a coalescence .
On the contrary , the ulnare and intermedium , the radiale and centrale are the parts that come into close relation .
Ulnare and intermedium fuse together , for instance , in , Triton , and probably in many Lizards ; radiale and centrale in Emys .
On this account Gegenbaur ( loc. cit. ) dismissed the supposition that the large radiale of the Crocodile , which juts up between radius and ulna , had included the intermedium with itself .
But the position and relations of this element are , perhaps , worth re-examining , though Baur+ declares that no trace of intermedium ( i.e. , no distinct centre of ossification or separate cartilage ) exists in the Crocodilia at any time.| In the Mammalia such a fusion of intermedium and radiale ( " scapho-lunar " ) is , of course , a common thing .
In the distal region of the carpus the Fowl , shows at no period more than three separate elements .
In this earliest ( 7-day ) stage , two only are recognisable ( Plate 62 , fig. 1 , d.c.3 , d.c.3 ) .
The larger of these two lies in the middle of the carpus , and is in contact both with the intermedio-radiale and the centralo-ulnare .
Its distal surface forms a concavity to receive the base of the second digit .
An evident crowding of cells in the embryonic cartilage towards its radial side is the beginning of the formation of the first carpale ( d.c.1 ) , which will be seen distinctly in the next stage .
The third carpale ( d.c.3 ) is already distinct , lying in close relation with the base of the third digit .
S In the next stage , on the 8th day of incubation ( Plate 62 , fig. 2 ) , the various carpal elements are all more solid and definite in form .
The centralo-ulnare is becoming bilobate , and has increased considerably in relative size , so as to be little less than the * Rosenberg ( ' Zeitschr .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 23 , 1873 ) comes to a different conclusion ; he finds in the Chick a radiale and an intermedio-ulnare , but his statements regarding the distal part of the carpus are very different from mine .
His paper contains a copious bibliography , and a summary of previous authors ' views .
t ' Zool. Anzeiger , ' 1885 , No. 208 .
t In Chamceleon , Stecker states that an intermedium is present at an early stage , but disappears without coalescing with any other element .
' Sitzber .
k. Akad .
Wiss .
, ' Vienna , 1877 , Abth .
1 ; Dr. Gijstav Born , " Carpus und Tarsus der Sauria , " 'Morphol .
Jahrb .
, ' vol. 2 , 1876 , pp. 1\#151 ; 27 , pi .
1 .
S The distal row of carpalia in Birds was detected by Born ( .
) .
388 MR. W. K , PARKER OK THE STRUCTURE AKD DEVELOPMENT intermedio-radiale .
The three distal carpalia are now all distinct , the middle one being still the largest , the inner the least .
They form an arched row with a concavity towards the manus , so that the middle metacarpal { me.2 ) is wedged in between the first metacarpal and the third distal carpal .
Already at the end of the tenth day ( Plate 62 , figs. 3 , 4 ) important changes have taken place , involving some displacement of parts in the carpus .
The small first distal carpale { d.c } ) has been arrested in its growth , and is now only one-tenth as large as the second ; and it has been , so to speak , thrust out of its place .by the great second metacarpal , on the flexor or inner side of which it is developed .
The third distal carpale , also comparatively small , being about one-third the size of the second , belongs to the ulnar side of the wrist , where it lies , a slender rod of cartilage , at the base of the third digit , looking at this stage from its elongated form more like a metacarpal than a carpal element .
Its slender distal end soon unites with the proximal end of the third metacarpal .
We may now pass over two or three stages in which other parts of the limb undergo important development , while the carpus remains little changed .
At hatching the carpus is still devoid of any centres of ossification , and my first figure which shows these is that of the Chick thirty-three days old ( Plate 62 , fig. 10 ) .
Here we see that the centralo-ulnare contains a large bony centre , while this intermedio-radiale is still purely cartilaginous .
The third distal carpale shows a small bony nucleus .
The small first distal carpale , somewhat increased in size , has acquired a pyriform outline , its smaller end being turned towards the pollex .
In ten or twelve days more , that is to say in the Chick of six weeks old ( Plate 62 , fig. 11 ) , the intermedio-radiale has acquired a small round bony centre near its outer or radial edge ; and the second or median distal carpale has a large oval core of bone .
The third distal carpale is conspicuous , with a long oval- bony centre .
In a Chicken three-quarters of a year old ( Plate 62 , fig. 12 , and Plate 63 , fig. 1 ) the wing is still far from perfect , as I have elsewhere shown to be the case of the skull also .
While the Chick at hatching-time is as ripe as .
a Pigeon a fortnight after hatching ( though proportionately much less in size ) , after eight or nine months of growth it is still as undeveloped as a Pigeon a month or five weeks old .
The two large permanent carpal bones , those , that is to say , of the proximal row , now alone remain distinct .
The second and third distal carpals have united with one another and with the metacarpus , but may still be distinctly seen from both flexor and extensor surfaces .
The displaced first carpale is now ossified , and shows conspicuously as an oblong lobe of bone , placed transversely across the flexor surface of the base of the middle metacarpal .
1 In the full-grown Hen ( Plate 63 , figs. 2 , 3 ) all the original outlines of the distal carpals have become obliterated . .
A number of other Gallinaceous Birds , to which I shall refer in treating of the metacarpus , show no important discrepancies in .
the ^structure of the carpus .
They OF THE WING IN THE COMMON FOWL .
vary somewhat in the relative sizes of the carpal elements , and the period at which these ossify .
In the Argus Pheasant , for instance ( Plate 63 , figs. 9 , 10 ) , the intermedio-radiale , which ossified late in the Fowl , contains its ossifying centre at the time of hatching , before any of the other carpal elements .
In the newly hatched Partridge , both intermedio-radiale and centralo-ulnare are ossifying ; in the Quail , neither ; and so on .
The figures show these and other points sufficiently well .
But with all this variability in detail , the essential features are constant in all the forms examined ; and so , though we get no great help from these Gallinaceous Birds in elucidating the compound nature of the proximal carpals , the number , position , and ultimate fate of the three distal carpals are made clear .
The Carpus in the The following is a brief review of the composition of the carpus in Batite Birds .
In Dromceus ater ( Plate 65 , fig. 4 ) I can find no trace of carpal elements either in the young or adult bird .
In Apteryx Owenii ( Plate 65 , fig. 5 ) and A. australis I find no visible carpals in the adult* ; the three fused metacarpals unite by a synchondrosis with the radius and ulna .
In Casuarius galeatus ( adult , Plate 65 , fig. 6 ) I find a small triangular ulnare wedged in upon the ulnar side of the wrist-joint .
No other carpal element is perceptible , t In Struthio ( Plate 64 , fig. 12 ) we have a much more normal wing .
A very instructive preparation of the wing of a young Ostrich exists in the Hunterian Museum .
Here we see the radiale and ulnare distinct and separate , and the latter already ossified .
Wedged in between and below them is a mass of bone as large as both together , which represents the distal carpals .
Probably it originated in the embryo in three segments ; but we have no evidence here of any such displacement of the first of these as we have studied in the Carinate bird.* The wing of Rhea has been figured in a young specimen by Dr. B. O. Cunningham .
S The large distal carpal mass seems to show signs of having been in three parts , and is independent of the metacarpals .
In the adult ( Plate 65 , fig. 1 ) there is to be seen on the flexor surface of the proximal end of the second metacarpal , a nodule of bone , which , from the analogy of the typical Carinate wing , may I think be the displaced * Wibdersheim ( ' Lehrbuch , ' p. 186 ) speaks of a radiale both in Apteryx and Casuarius .
Owen also speaks of a carpal ossicle in Apteryx .
I cannot find it in the adult .
I hope that this and other points will soon be settled in the embryo of Apteryx by my son , Prof. T. J. Parker .
t Meckel found the carpus of a Cassowary containing one ossicle ( ulnare ) m one wing , and^two in the other ( Meckel 's ' Archiv , ' vol. 13 , p. 229 , 1830 ) .
Stannius found one invariably ( ' Lehrbuch , ' p. 259 .
) ^ + AnX describes minutely the somewhat peculiar shape of the ulnare in the Ostrich ( \#163 ; Sir 1 appareil locomoteur de l'Autruche , " \#163 ; Bull , de la Soc. Philom .
, ' 1867 , also \#163 ; App. locomoteur des Oiseaux , ' Paris , 1874 , p. 321 ) .
S ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1871 , pi .
6a .
first car pale .
The other two distal carpalia are quite obsolete .
The and ulnare are free bones , but unlike their counterparts in the Carinate in shape .
The ulnare is here a simple transversely elongated bone ; the radiate is much larger , and constricted half-way across by a deep fissure or cleft .
This anomaly demands further study of the embryo for its elucidation ; it is not unlikely , to my thinking , that the two portions of the forked " radiate"will be found to answer , the smaller to the \#166 ; radiate proper , the larger and inner segment to the intermedium .
The Metacarpus .
Anatomists since Cuvier have generally recognised the Avian metacarpus as consisting of three coalesced elements , the metacarpals , namely , of the pollex , * index , and medius , which are all very distinctly ( if rather diagrammatically ) figured in the Chick by Gegenbaur ( ' Carpus u. Tarsus , ' Plate 3 , fig. 3 ) .
The following is an account of the growth and ossification of these elements in the Chick:\#151 ; In the Chick of the 7th day ( Plate 62 , fig. 1 ) the three metacarpals are completely separate .
That of the pollex is about one-third the length of the next in order , and is unossified .
The second is the largest ; its middle third is ossifying ; and in the same region the little rod-like bone is bowed inwards and away from the third digit to form the lanceolate space for the interosseous muscles .
The third metacarpal is a little shorter than the second , and only two-thirds as thick : it also is ossifying in its middle third .
By the eighth day ( Plate 62 , fig. 2 ) the two larger metacarpals are getting a well-defined ectosteal sheath , but the pollex is still wholly cartilaginous .
The metacarpal of the pollex is still opposite to its own carpale , but the other two metacarpals are as it were wedged into the carpal region , and have displaced the outer carpale .
A reference to the figures on Plate 62 will make plain the progress of ossification and the change in the relative size of these metacarpal elements .
It will be seen that at the time of hatching ( fig. 9 ) the metacarpal of the pollex is quite destitute of an osseous centre , and that , at that period , it seems to form part of the general mass of cartilage in which the distal carpals and the proximal extremities of the metacarpals have for the most part lost their independence .
In the Chick of a month old ( fig. 10 ) the first metacarpal is well-ossified , and coalescing with its larger neighbours .
* Cuvier , 'Le^ns , ' 1st edit .
, vol. 1 , p. 314 .
'L'os du metacarpe port , au cote radial de sa base , sir Tine apopliyse particuliere , ou me/ me un petit os sepcire , un os stiloide qui tient lieu de police .
' See also 2nd edit .
, vol. 1 , p. 438 .
The metacarpale pollicis is treated by Tiedemann , Wiedemann , and even Stannius ( 'Wirbelth .
, ' p. 259 ) as an apophysis merely .
Heusingee ( Meckel 's ' Archiv , ' vol. 6 , p. 548 , 1820 ) calls attention to its distinctness in Raptores , and especially in Owls ; he mentions having seen it almost completely separate in one- and two-day-old Pigeons , and completely separate in an Owl of about the same age .
OF THE WING IN THE COMMON FOWL .
In connection with these three well-known and generally recognised metacarpals there exist at least three inconspicuous vestiges , which I have carefully studied in the hope of finding in them evidence of missing digits .
More than one author has sought , and fancied that he had found , traces of additional metacarpal elements ; and I have tried to trace the development of the several structures which have seemed to others to be of this nature .
In very many Birds ( most Gallinacei , many Passerines , \amp ; c. ) the interosseous space between the metacarpals of the index and third finger is partially crossed by a bony process jutting out from the former bone ( Plate 63 , fig. 1 , me.2 ' ) .
It is connected with the insertion of the extensor carpi ulnaris ( Selenka ; flexor metacarpi radialis , Tiedemann , Heusinger , \amp ; c. ) This structure Heusinger* * * S long ago looked upon as a rudimentary metacarpal of an aborted middle finger .
He describes it as present in a more or less obvious state in almost all Birds , and he found it a distinct and separate ossicle on one occasion in a six-months-old Hen .
The flattened proximal phalanx of the index , which sometimes juts forwards into a free point on its ulnar side , and is sometimes partially divided by a longitudinal groove or even by unossified vacuities , t contains , according to him , the coalesced rudiment of a phalanx of the same missing digit .
This so-called metacarpal rudiment is not to be found in the earliest Chick that I have examined , but it appears on the tenth day as a lanceolate patch of true cartilage on the ulnar side of the second metacarpal , about its own length from the proximal end of the large rod , and one-fifth of the length of the latter .
Its inner side is flattened against the main rod , while its outer edge projects over the next or third metacarpal ( see Plate 62 , fig. 3 , me.2 ' ) .
Already by the twelfth day this structure is arrested in its development , and forms now a simple oval patch lying well between the two larger metacarpals .
By the fourteenth or fifteenth day ( Plate 62 , figs. 7 , 8 ) it appears smaller ; in my preparation of the Chick six weeks old it is still a distinct piece of hyaline cartilage that seems to have kept pace in its growth with its larger neighbour ; hut it is much reduced in the young Fowl of nine months .
My preparations do not show a separate centre of ossification for this process , but it must have one , at least occasionally , for besides Heusinger 's case in the Fowl already quoted , I have myself found it as a separate centre of bone in a fledgling of M.uscicapa grisola .
I have found it under very similar conditions in a large series of Gallinaceous Birds , but I have no evidence of its existence in Ratitse .
J AVhen my abstract of this paper was read and published S I advocated the view that * " Beitrag sir Metamorphose des Yogel-Fliigels , " Meckel 's ' Archiv , ' vol. 6 , 1820 , p. 546 .
See also ibid. , vol. 7 , p. 189 .
t According to Selenka , in C/ iprimulgus , Pams , Sterna(Bronx , vol. 6 .
p. 16 ) ; see Note to p. 394 .
$ I see no trace of it in Marsh 's figure of Apatornis , the only Odontornith in which the metacarpus is well known .
S 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 42 , 1887 , p. 52 ; ' Nature , ' Feb. 3 , 1887 .
392 MR. W. K. PARKER ON THE STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT this structure represented an intercalary metacarpal , though I was not then aware that the same theory had been advanced before .
But I am disinclined to urge the same view now .
The late development of the part , its failure usually to form an independent osseous centre , its close association with the tendon of a certain muscle its absence in Ratitse , above all the want of any indication in near Reptilian allies of such an aborted digit , stand in the way of accepting or repeating my theory of a year ago .
Two other vestigial structures attract attention .
About the same time as the last-named rudiment appears , that is to say , about the tenth day , there is seen on the radial side of the base of the first metacarpal a piece of rather solid fibro-cartilage , which afterwards further solidifies into an arcuate nodule ( me.1 ' ) .
At the time of hatching it is still distinct and somewhat larger , and even in the Chick of six weeks old it is recognisable ; but , thereafter , it fuses with the metacarpal of the pollex , helping to form its tubercle on the radial side.* This apophysis , which occupies the position of the spurt that so many Birds possess on the radial side of the wrist , may possibly be a surviving remnant of a pre-pollex .
It is very constant in all the Gallinaceous Birds that I have studied , but I have not found it yet among the Ratitse .
A third remnant appears also about the tenth day on the ulnar side of the base of the metacarpal , and towards the flexor side of the manus ( me.3 ' ) .
It lies nearly opposite the junction of the carpal and metacarpal , and is about two-thirds as long as the accessory cartilage already described on the ulnar side of the index ; it consists of hyaline cartilage .
On the twelfth day ( figs. 5 , 6 ) it is twice as large as on the tenth , and in shape is flattish , sublanceate , but with a broader part below .
It remains perfectly distinct through all the stages of incubation .
In the Chick of a month old it is still obvious , but seems to be rotating slightly towards the flexor side , towards the angle of junction of the second and third metacarpals .
This cartilage , which is very distinct , constant , and well defined , and which does not appear to be in close relation with the origin or insertion of any particular muscle , may fairly , I think , be taken as the remnant of the next missing digit on the ulnar side.| I find it as a separate style of bone in the Toucan , and as a bony bridge in the Cariama .
Hexjsinger ( loc.cit .
) also describes a rudimentary fourth metacarpal , but the process supposed by him to be of that nature seems rather to be the one that I have shown to represent the third distal carpale .
The Phalanges .
Further , I have carefully examined the developing digits of many Chicks , especially among the Gallinse and Ratitse , with the object of reviewing the number of phalanges * For the insertion chiefly of the supinator longus .
.f* So remarkably developed in the Palamedeae , certain Geese , Plovers , and Jacanas .
+ Rosenberg ( Z.c. ) has also found evidence of an additional ( fourth } metacarpal on the ulnar side .
See also Jeffries , 'Nuttall Orn .
Club Bull./ vol. 6 , p. 6 , 1881 .
OF THE WING IN THE COMMON FOWL .
present either in a perfect state or rudimentary , and also to determine the presence or absence of rudimentary claws on other digits besides the pollex .
* In many Birds , e.g. , the Passerinae , the pollex of the first digit has only one phalanx attached to its short metacarpal , the second has two , and the third only one phalanx .
In others , e.g. , Plovers , Gulls , Cormorants , \amp ; c. , an additional or ungual phalanx is found on the first and second digits ; and in some Birds , e.g. , during the embryonic state , a small semi-distinct nucleus is seen on the end of the aborted phalanx of the third digit.t According to current statements of authors , a nail or claw is frequently found on the thumb , on the index occasionally , but on the third digit never .
Selenka ascribes a claw on the second phalanx of the pollex to most Gallium , many Baptores , Grallatores , and Natatores , Hirun and others .
Nitzsch says it is absent in the Owls , very large in Vulture ( N ) percnopterus , large in the Crane , short and bent in the Stork , thinner and longer in the Herons , but absent in the smaller Egrets , present in the Solan Goose , smaller and inconstant in the Gulls and Terns .
The index claw is said to exist in most Batitse ( [ Peron ] , Rhea [ Nitzsch ] , Struthio [ Perrault1 , Apteryx [ Owen ] ) , and in Palamedea I find an embryonic claw on the index finger in all the Gallinaceous Birds that I have examined , and in Dromceus , as well as in the Batitse above-named .
And I find both in the young Ostrich and in Rhea , a small claw upon the end of the third digit .
In the seven-day Chick the diminutive fingers , formed of small , round , scarcely chondrified phalanges , are surrounded by a common web , and are all turned inwards , or towards the radial side .
A notch separates the pollex from the second digit .
On careful manipulation , we can see in the pollex two phalanges ( Plate 62 , fig. 1 , dg.1 , three in the second digit , and two in the third ; and these numbers are not exceeded in the wing of any kind of adult Bird .
By the eighth day the distal phalanx of the third digit has already disappeared by fusion with the proximal one ; the distal phalanx of the second digit is indistinct \gt ; but that of the pollex is plainer than before .
* The number of phalanges is always understated in the text-books .
Wiedebsheim ( ' Lehrbuch , p. 195 ) says , " Die Phalangenzahl ist eine selir beschrlinkte , indem dem ersten und dritten Finger je nur eine , am zweiteu zwei vorhanden sind .
" And the same author says elsewhere ( ' Biolog .
Centralbl ' .
, vol. 3 , p. 656 , 1884 ) , " Die Zahl der Fingerglieder ist eine sehr beschrankte , indem schon im Foetus am ersten nnd dritten Finger je nur eine , am zweiten nur zwei sir Anlage kommen , und auch spater in derselben Zahl persistiren !
" Owen ( ' Comp. Anat .
' ) gives a similar account of the general condition , but describes the Ostrich correctly as an exception .
Stannius ( ' Lehrbuch , ' pp. 259 , 260 ) mentions the occasional presence of a secbnd phalanx in the pollex , and a third in the index , but without specifying instances ( Of .
Nitzsch , ' Osteogr .
Beitr .
' , p. 89 ) .
Selenka ( Bbonn , vol. 6 , p. 75 , 1869 ) states that a second phalanx occurs in the pollex of Diurnal Rap tores , Gallinaces\#169 ; , most Grallatores and Natatores , and Cypselus ; and a third in the index of Anser , Gy gnus , Anas , Mergus , Scolopax , Grus , StrutUo .
Alix mentions a third phalanx in the index of the Tinamou ( ' App. locom .
, p. 323 ) .
t Bbonn , 'Klassen u. Ordnungen , ' vol. 6 , p. 75 .
I This statement appears to be copied from Nitzsch , ' Osteographische Beitrage , ' 1811 , " Ueber das Nagelglied der Fliigelfinger , " pp. 98-97 ; and Hirundo is a mistake of the transcriber for Cypselus .
394 MR. W. K. PARKER ON THE STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT On the tenth day the pollex is still larger proportionately than in its adult condition .
The proximal joint has a thick shoulder like its own metacarpal , to which it is hinged by a very perfect condyle ; its middle third ( or nearly ) has a long shaft .
The distal joint is no longer a flat sub-discoid part , but is a long and slender .
one-third as long as the proximal joint ; it is beginning to be covered with horn .
The first of the three phalanges of the second digit is very thick at its radial edge , and is bevelled at its ulnar , which is somewhat notched to receive the third digit.* The terminal phalanx is a small curved segment , ready to become the core of a claw .
The proximal phalanx of the third digit is one-half the length and one-third the width of that of the second .
On the twelfth day the claw-segment of the pollex is not so well developed , and that of the index is indistinct .
Passing to the young Fowl , three-quarters of a year old ( fig. 12 ) , we find the distal phalanx of the pollex now forming the bony core of a claw .
That of the index is a mere rough point , without a separate bony centre , and that of the third digit has disappeared .
In the Partridge , on the fourth or fifth day of incubation , a claw is also to be seen on the distal phalanx of the pollex , which , however , is unossified .
In the ripe embryo of the Quail , the claw of the pollex is distinct ; the distal phalanx of the index is scarcely separate ; and the third digit has only a single phalanx .
In a ripe embryo of Gallus Sonneratii , the distal phalanx of the pollex is a well-developed ungual hook , with a horny sheath or claw .
In the Turkey ( embryo , half ripe ) , the distal segment of the pollex has a spatulate form , which form in Phasianus versicolor ( two-fifths ripe ) ( Plate 63 , figs. 4 , 5 ) appears as a sub-circular disc .
In the latter species , the distal segment of the second digit also is an oval flat plate of cartilage .
This state of things , with more or less dilatation of the distal segment before the nail-sheath is developed , is constant in the Carinatse .
In the Silver Pheasant ( Plate 64 , fig. 1 ) , the claw on the pollex is not formed at the time of hatching , nor are the distal segments distinct m the other digits .
Metacarpus and Phalanges in Ratitce .
Of all existing Patitae the wing is most degraded in the Emeu , which in this respect approaches most nearly to the recently extinct Dinornis , in which no trace of a wing has yet been found .
In a six weeks old Emeu chick the first metacarpal is about * I have more recently found that in some Birds , at least in the Gulls , Auks , and Guillemots , this flattened portion on the ulnar side of the first phalanx of the index , to which some of the primary quills are attached , does develop from a distinct tract of true cartilage .
It soon loses its independence .
( See * Hoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' voi .
43 , 1888 , pp. 322-325 ; and ' Nature , ' Feb. 2 , 1888 .
) supra , p. 391 .
) I have also shown that in long-winged Birds an additional accessory cartilagejs present near the ulnar side of both the first and second digits , near their end .
In that papery .
323 , line 16 from the top , for " arm " read " also " ; and p. 824 , line 4 from the top , for " policephala ' ' read " OF THE WING IN THE COMMON FOWL .
half the length of the second , and ends close to it in a point ; the index finger possesses the normal number of phalanges , namely three , the last of which is enclosed in a sharp and curved claw .
In the old bird ( Plate 65 , fig. 4 ) the three phalanges and claw of the index are still distinct , but the metacarpal of the first is very small , and that of the third is suppressed .
The wings of an adult are about the size of those of a Jay or a Bower-bird ; in the young chick , with legs the size of those of a Turkey , the wings are no larger than a Wren 's .
In the Cassowary ( Casuariusgaleatus ) , Plate 65 , fig. 6 ) there is an evident third metacarpal fused with the second and first , and larger even than the second , the three rays being marked off by fissures .
More perfect than the Emeu in this , it is yet less perfect in having only two phalanges in the index , of which the distal one is covered with a strong claw , curving towards the ulnar side."55 .
In Apteryx Owenii ( Plate 65 , fig. 5 ) the first metacarpal , less than half the size of the second , ends in a free point , as in the Emeu .
Near the distal end , on the ulnar side , the large second metacarpal has a thin flange , which may be the masked rudiment of the third\#151 ; a condition very different from that which we have just seen in the Cassowary .
The index finger has only two short phalanges , and the falcate distal one bears a sharp curved claw .
In the Hunterian preparation of a young Ostrich 's wing already referred to ( Plate 64 , fig. 12 ) , the pollex has two phalanges , the index three , and the third digit two , t a number very uncommon among the Carinatse .
Each digit possesses a , that of the third digit being very small .
J ' Xu Rhea ( Plate 65 , fig. 1 ) the first metacarpal is one-third , and the third almost three-fourths , the length of the second .
The third metagarpal extends beyond the second , as in Carinatse .
The first digit only is perfect in the adult , and has a well-formed claw .
The second has two phalanges , of which the first has the usual flange on the ulnar side , and the second has a small claw .
Inside the claw there probably was in the embryo the normal third phalanx .
The third digit has one phalanx , flat and twisted ; also a very small claw , in which doubtless the embryo had a second phalanx .
* D ' Alton ( \#166 ; Stel .
d. stranssartig .
Vogel/ 1827 , p. 17 ) , Mbrrm ( ' Abh .
d. Berliner Akad./ 1816-17 , p. 179 ) , and Macm ( 'Archiv/ vol. 13 , p. 231 ) give the same nnmber of phalanges for the Indian Cassowary ; and all agree in finding no trace of the first and third digits .
Recent y , owerer , are dissected and fignred the wing of a ripe embryo of Oamarim and find , besides two proximal and one distal oarpal the latter 4 three lobes , a small first metacarpal and a larger third metacarpa , and three phalanges attached to the large second metacarpal , t These two phalanges in the third digit of the adult bird are recorded by Alix ( Appared JMcaaoem , p. 323 ) .
See also the same author 's " App. locom .
de l'Autruche d'Afrique , e a oc .
1 o math .
, ' 1867 .
Owen describes the same number of phalanges m the young it , pro a y rom e sam specimen ( ' Comp. Anat .
, ' vol. 2 , p. 73 ) , but overlooks the claw of the third digit .
t Neither Nitzsch nor Huxley admits more than two claws .
The \#174 ; artl g\#153 ; w eyon and bony phalanx in the third digit ( see Wkay , ' Zool. Soc. Proc , ' 1887 , pp. 283 284 , fig. ) .
secoi List of Abbreviations .
cm .
Centralo-ulnare .
d.c1 First or radial distal car pale .
d.c } Second distal carpale .
d.c } Third distal carpale .
dg.1 First or proximal phalanx .
dg ?
Second phalanx .
dg } Third phalanx .
h. Humerus .
i. r. Intermedio-radiale .
me.1 First metacarpal , or metacarpus pollicis .
me.1 ' Accessory cartilage of* ditto ( pre-pollex ?
) .
me.2 Second metacarpal , or metacarpus indicis .
me } ' Accessory cartilage of ditto .
me.3 Third metacarpal .
me.3 ' Accessory cartilage , probably a rudimentary fourth metacarpal .
r. Radius .
rd .
Radiale .
u. Ulna .
ul .
Ulnare .
OF THE WING IN THE COMMON FOWL .
Description of the Plates .
N.B.\#151 ; Figs. 7-10 of Plate 65 will be described in a future paper ; the whole of this piece of research is referred to in the " Abstract " ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 42 , pp. 52-58* ) , but only part is given in the present paper .
nil Plate .
Fig. Number of times magnified .
62 1 Wing of Chick ; 7 days ' incubation ; outer view 13f yy Part of same ; inner view .
13| yy 2 The same ; 8 days ' incubation ; outer view . .
13J i 3 The same ; 10 days ' incubation ; inner view ... .
8 yy 4 Part of same ; outer view ... ... ... .
' 12 yy 5 The same ; 12 days ' incubation ; outer view . . . .
8 yy 6 Part of same ; inner view . .
12 yy 7 The same ; 2 weeks ' incubation ; outer view ... .
yy 8 Part of same ; inner view . . .
10 yy 9 The same ; 2 or 3 days old ; inner view .
... .
yy 10 The same ; 33 days old ; inner view 2f yy 11 The same ; 6 weeks old ; inner view . . . . . .
M yy 12 Wing of young Fowl ; S year old ; outer view .
not .
size .
63 1 Part of wing of young Fowl ; j year old , inner view .
not .
size .
3 y 2 Do .
of old Hen ; outer view not .
size .
yy 3 Part of same ; inner view . .
not .
size .
yy 4 Wing of Phasianus versicolor ; .S\#166 ; ripe ; outer view .
8 Q \ y \gt ; 5 Part of same ; inner view * O r- 1 yy 6 Wing of same species ; nearly ripe ; outer view 1 7 Part of same ; inner view yy 8 Part of same ; inner view 21 yy 9 Wing of Argus giganteus ; ripe ; inner view ... .
4 a y y 10 Part of same ; outer view 0 r 1 jj 11 Wing of Euplocamus Horsfieldii ; inner view . . .
H Q 1 yy 12 Part of same ; outer view .
O t. 2 L " 13 Wing of Euplocamus melanotis ; -f ripe ; inner view .
* P. 58 , line 11 from bottom , for " always " read 11 never , so far as I know .
Plate .
Fig. Number of times i magnified .
64 1 Wing of Nycthemerus argentat ripe ; outer view 3 ; 99 2 Part of same ; inner view .
99 3 Part of same ; inner view .
21 99 4 Wing of Lophophorus impeyan ; ripe ; inner view .
51 99 5 Wing of Perdix cinerea ; 1 week old ; outer view .
4 5 6 Wing of Coturnix dactylisonans ; ripe ; inner view 99 7 Part of same ; outer view . . . .
, ... 99 g Wing of Meleagris gallo-pavo ; ripe ; outer view 6f 9 9 9 Part of same ; inner view . . . . . .
6f- 99 10 Wing of GallusSonneratii ; ripe ; inner view .
6| 99 11 Part of same ; outer view . . . . .
10 99 12 Wing of Struthio camelus ; grown ; outer view .
not .
size .
99 13 Part of 3rd digit of same . . .
... .
4 65 1 Wing of Phea americana ; adult ; inner view . . .
not .
size .
99 2 End of 2nd digit of same . .
, .
4 99 3 Part of 3rd digit of same 4 9 9 4 Wing of Dromceus ater ; adult ; outer view .
... not .
size .
9 9 5 Wing of Apteryx Owenii ; adult ; outer view . . .
4 99 6 Wing of Casuarius galeatus ; adult ; outer view . .
not .
size .
99 7 Palate , partly dissected , of Dvomeaus irroratus ; neaily ripe ... .
... . . . . . . .
not .
size .
99 8 Pelvis of embryo of Casuarius Bennettii ; lower view .
li| not .
size .
99 9 The same ; upper view . . . .
1 ^ not .
size .
99 10 The same ; side view . .
... ... ... 1J not .
size .
Parker .
Phil. Trans.1888 .
B. Plate 62 .
Weat .
Newraa-n^ Co. imp .
p^ , ^"eliLdna.t ^r\amp ; Cmrardlith .
Galius domesticus .
Parker .
Phil. Trans. 1888 .
B.Plate 63 pf-K.P .
del .ad not .
T^er\amp ; Covrardlith .
Gallmaceae .
Parker .
Phil. Trans. 1888 .
B. Plate 64 .
'iel.aulnaJt .
I fcCowar cl ixtia .
West , !
N ewmaiiS Co. imp .
G allinsio e m \amp ; Hatitae .
PhiLTrans .
18,88.B.Plate 65 .
7 rv.s Sngg3 .TYVCS pT.'V- cct-v p ?
^- \amp ; \gt ; l.ac\#163 ; iaa\#177 ; .
^W\amp ; Covrara 11th .
Ratatse .
West , Newman \amp ; Co. imp .

