308 Dr. A. D. Waller .
[ Mar. 12 , March 12 , 1896 .
Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. Sir Richard Temple , a Member of Her Majesty 's Most Honourable Privy Council , was balloted for and elected a Eellow of the Society .
The Croonian Lecture was delivered as follows:\#151 ; ?
CROONIAN Lecture.\#151 ; " Observations on Isolated Nerve .
Electrical Changes a Measure of Physico-chemical Change .
" By Augustus D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. ( Abstract .
) The present investigation arises from experiments undertaken to determine autographically the varying relations between the magnitude of electrical change and the magnitude of stimulation in nerve under various chemical conditions.* The main principle upon which the inquiry is based is the proposition established ( by du Bois-Reymond , and by Hermann in particular ) to the effect that disturbed protoplasm is electro-negative to the normal .
An accessory principle to which reference will also be made , is that upheld ( by Hering in particular ) to the effect that protoplasm in which disturbance has just ceased is electro-positive to the normal .
In accordance with the first principle , injured is electro-negative to normal protoplasm , and excited is electro-negative to resting protoplasm .
In accordance with the second principle , recently excited is electropositive to normal protoplasm .
Nerve ( the excised and still-living nerve of the frog ) is , for the purpose of this inquiry , considered as a convenient strand of excitable yet hardly exhaustible protoplasm , giving off to the galvanometer a demarcation or injury current ( Hermann ) from a less disturbed portion ( longitudinal surface L ) to a more disturbed portion ( transverse section T ) , which current , during disturbance of the whole # 'Physiol .
Soc. Proo .
, ' June , 1895 .
Observations on Isolated Nerve .
1896 .
] nerve effected by weak tetanisation at the two exciting electrodes e , e , but principally affecting a less disturbed portion L , undergoes a negative variation ( du Bois-Reymond ) , the magnitude of which is taken as the index to the magnitude of chemico-physical change aroused in the nerve under various chemical conditions .
Care is observed to avoid the ordinary fallacies , and to obtain a " negative variation " as far as possible clear of electrotonic effects .
Action-currents ( significant of physiological effects in nerve ) are distinguished from physical effects by means of anaesthetics , COa .
EtACHOla.* The physiological state of the nerve is tested by tetanising currents of low and uniform intensity , of uniform duration ( 7^ and later 15 seconds ) , at uniform intervals ( 1 minute ) , in both directions .
The series of negative variations or action currents led off to the galvanometer , gives a corresponding series of deflections which are registered on a slowly descending photographic plate .
The plan of procedure adopted throughout has been to take for a period a normal series of deflections , then to submit the nerve to the action of a reagent ( without removal from the electrodes in the case of gases , but with such removal in the case of solutions ) , finally to take for a further period the series of increasing or decreasing or reversed deflections of the chemically modified nerve .
Alterations of resistance were controlled by aid of a standard deflection of 0 001 volt let into the nerve and galvanometer circuit at beginning and end of experiment .
The results so far acquired may be considered under the following heads :\#151 ; 1 .
The effects of anaesthetics , and of some gases .
2 .
The effects of several chemical substances in solution .
3 .
The effect of carbon dioxide .
4 .
Theoretical considerations .
1 .
Anaesthetic vapours were employed at the outset of these observations with a view of distinguishing between physiological and physical effects .
Their action was subsequently studied in detail , more especially as regards the comparison between ether and chloroform ( and other chloromethanes and chloroethanes ) upon living matter as represented by nerve.-j " Ether vapour ( EtjO ; also EtCl , EtBr , and EtI ) produces a more or less prolonged abolition followed by complete recovery of excitability .
Chloroform vapour ( CHCh ; also other chloromethanes and chloroethanes ) produces still more prolonged and frequently final abolition .
* 'Physiol .
Soc. Proc. , ' February , 1896 .
f ' Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' November , 1835 .
310 Dr. A. D. Waller .
[ Mar. 12 , Small quantities of ether and of chloroform vapour produce temporary augmentation of excitability .
COa assists the anaesthetic and counteracts the toxic action of CHCI3 .
Oxygen , hydrogen , nitrogen , carbon monoxide , nitrous oxide cause little or no effect .
Methane produces augmentation , hydrocyanic acid abolition .
Carbon dioxide in small quantity causes primary augmentation , in large quantity primary abolition or diminution , followed by secondary augm entation .
2 .
Action of Reagents Soluble in Normal Saline .
The nerve is bathed for 1 minute in more or less dilute solutions ( acids , alkalis , neutral salts ) and replaced upon the electrodes .
Distilled water gradually abolishes excitability .
Dilute acid solutions , M/ 40 to M/ 10 , cause primary augmentation , followed by gradual diminution .
Stronger acid solutions , M/ 10 to M/ 5 , cause primary diminution and abolition .
The effect of an acid follows acidity rather than avidity , but is also specific^ Decinormal acetic , nitric , and sulphuric acids have approximately equal effects .
As compared with the action of N/ 10 HN03 , or H2SO4 , the action of oxalic acid is less marked , that of phosphoric acid much less marked ; that of lactic acid , on the other hand , is more marked .
Approximately equal effects are produced by N/ 10 nitric , N/ 5 phosphoric , and N/ 20 lactic !
Alkalis .
\#151 ; Caustic potash is far more active than caustic soda .
Potassium salts are more active than sodium salts .
Neutral Salts.\#151 ; With the view of ascertaining how far the action of a neutral salt depends upon its acid or its basic moiety , the following tabular comparison was effected , NH4CI .
NH4Br .
NHJ .
NaCl .
NaBr .
Nal .
KC1 .
KBr .
KI .
From which is concluded that the influence of the base predominates in a total action due to the entire molecule .
Many other salts have been tested , among which may be mentioned those of calcium and of mercury .
Calcium chloride in M/ 10 solution augments the electrical response , and antagonises potassium chloride , which diminishes or abolishes it .
Observations on Isolated Nerve .
1896 .
] Mercuric chloride is the most lethal of any salts hitherto tested ; its M/ 100 solution abolishes the response .
Isomeric compounds differ in efficacy .
Of the three dioxybenzenes , pyrocatechin is the most and hydro-quinone the least toxic .
Alkaloids and Narcotic Drugs\#151 ; The most obviously effective , so far , have been cocaine , physostigmine , and aconitine ( chloral hydrate and butyl chloral hydrate ) ; the most ineffective morphia , atropine , muscarine .
Extract of opium is more effective than tartrate of morphia .
Aconitine hvdrochlorate is more effective than aconine , or pyra-conitine , or pseudaconitine , or benzaeonine ; and there is a close resemblance between the effects of aconitine and of acetic acid , attributable to the acetyl group .
3 .
Action of C02 on Nerve and Production of C02 by Nerve .
Carbon dioxide , the chief terminal product of protoplasmic action , has been the object of detailed investigation , more especially with reference to the question of its production during the excited activity of nerve.* A small amount of C02\#151 ; such as is contained in e.g. , expired air\#151 ; causes a marked augmentation of the negative variation .
An isolated nerve acts thus as an indicator of the presence of C02 .
From which it was argued that if any C02 is produced within the active ( tetanised ) nerve , a similar augmentation should occur .
This has since been verified under various conditions .
The evidence is extended by further experiments on nerve in various stages , giving various kinds of electrical response to the same kind of excitation .
An isolated nerve ( in autumn and early winter ) considered with reference to its freshness presents three stages* in which the electrical response is as follows :\#151 ; I. A predominant negative effect .
II .
, , " positive after-effect .
III .
" " " effect .
The effects of " little " C02 , and of tetanisafcion lasting five minutes , upon nerve in these three states are as follows:\#151 ; I. Augmentation of negative deflection . .
II .
Appearance of negative deflection .
III .
Substitution of negative for positive deflection , or diminution of positive deflection .
* 'Physiol .
Soc Proc. , ' January , 1896 .
312 Presents . .
[ Mar. 12 , From Which the conclusion is drawn that:\#151 ; Tetanisation is attended with an evolution of COa within the nerve .
4 .
Theoretical Considerations .
Phenomena of summation .
Staircase phenomena .
The possible nature of positive after-effects and of positive effects .
Phenomena associated with polarisation effects in nerve , and their modification by anaesthetics .
Electrotonic currents and their negative variation .
Polarising currents and their positive variation .
" What is the possible mechanism of the positive and negative effects of the electrical excitation of medullated nerve P What are the possible functional and chemical relations between the grey axis and the white sheath of a medullated fibre ?
Presents , March 12 , 1896 .
Transactions .
Berlin:\#151 ; K. Preuss .
Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Sitzungs-berichte .
1895 .
Nos. 39\#151 ; 53 .
8vo .
Berlin .
The Academy .
Chapel Hill:\#151 ; Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society .
Journal .
Vol. XII .
Part 1 .
8vo .
Chapel Hill 1895 .
The Society .
Eastbourne:\#151 ; Natural History Society .
Transactions .
Yol .
III .
Part 1 .
8vo .
Eastbourne [ 1896 ] .
The Society .
Frankfort-on^the-Main:\#151 ; Senckeubergische Naturforschende Ge-sellschaft .
Abhandlungen .
\lt ; Bd .
XIX .
Heft 3\#151 ; 4 .
4to .
FranTcfurt-a-M.1896 .
The Society .
Kew:\#151 ; Royal Gardens .
Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information .
February , 1896 .
8vo .
London .
The Director .
La Plata:\#151 ; Museo de la Plata .
Anales : Seccion Zoologica .
Nos. 2\#151 ; 3 .
Folio .
La Plata 1895 ; Revista .
Tomo VII .
Part 1 .
8vo .
La Plata 1895 , The Museum .
London:\#151 ; British Museum .
Catalogue of Printed Books .
Rome .
Sav-Scha .
Scha-Schi .
Schi\#151 ; Schm .
Scho-Schr .
Folio .
London 1896 .
The Trustees .
Linnean Society .
Journal ( Zoology ) .
Yol .
XXY .
No. 162 .
8vo .
London 1896 .
The Society .
Marine Biological Association .
Journal .
Yol .
1Y .
No. 2 .
8vo .
Plymouth 1896 .
The Association .
Royal Meteorological Society .
Quarterly Journal .
Yol .
XXII .
No. 97 .
8vo .
London 1896 ; List of Fellows .
1896 .
8vo .
London .
The Society .

