183 1883 .
] Note on the Constitution of Chlorophyll .
ihat a continuity of the protoplasm between adjacent cells occurs in s Dioncea muscipula , being especially pronounced in the most central layers of parenchymatous cells .
The parenchyma cells of the petioles of certain plants which , as H. von Mohl showed , are often thick walled and conspicuously pitted , afforded favourable material for investigation .
In Aucuba japonica , and Prunus lauro-cerasus , distinct threads could be made out crossing the pit-closing membrane .
In Ilex aquifolium there was a doubtful striation , and in the rest examined a mere coloration of the pit-membrane .
Examples of continuity have thus been shown to exist in ordinary parenchymatous tissue ; and this materially strengthens the belief that the phenomenon of the connexion of cells with one another is one of universal occurrence .
As to the function of the filaments , the author believes that in sieve-tubes and in endosperm-cells they may make possible a transference of solid materials , besides establishing a protoplasmic communication ; but in ordinary cells the only significance of the threads is , that by their means the protoplasm of isolated cells becomes connected , and that ) thus the communication of impulses from one part of the plant to another is insured .
Finally , the presence of these minute perforations of the cell-wall .need not lead to any modification of our general ideas as to the mechanics of the cell .
V. " Note on the Constitution of Chlorophyll .
" By Edward Schunck , F.R.S. Received December 6 , 1883 .
An examination of some products derived from chlorophyll , which has occupied me for some time , has led to the question of the true nature and constitution of chlorophyll , a question on which widely different opinions prevail .
Without entering into matters which concern the physiologist only , it may be said that to the chemist chlorophyll is simply an organic colouring-matter , the substance to which the green colour of leaves and other parts of plants is due .
Now colouring-matters are of three kinds .
To the first class belong such as occur ready formed and in a free state in vegetable and animal organisms , such as the colouring-matters of turmeric and safflower .
The second class comprises those that are formed from colourless chromogens by the combined action of alkalis and oxygen , the colouring-matters of log-wood and archil being well-known examples of this class .
These colouring-matters change rapidly when exposed to the further action of oxygen in the presence of alkali , but are quite vol. xxxvi .
0 Mr. E. Schunck .
[ Dec. 2C stable when in contact with acids .
The third class consists o ; glucosides , bodies which do not undergo any considerable change a under the influence of alkalis , but are rapidly decomposed when actet i on by acids or ferments , yielding , on the one hand , some kind o glucose , and , on the other , substances in which the tinctorial pro perties of the parent substance are much more pronounced .
To thif division belong the colouring-matters of madder , quercitron , cochineal .
\amp ; c. Now chlorophyll in its general properties so much resembles the members of the last class that one cannot help suspecting that to this class it may belong\#151 ; that it is in fact a glucoside .
It shows considerable stability in the presence of alkalis , but acids decompose it rapidly , giving rise to substances which are intensely coloured and show a power of absorbing particular parts of the spectrum much more strongly than chlorophyll itself .
Whether , along with the latter ] bodies , it yields by decomposition with acids some kind of glucose , ) seemed to me a question worthy of attention .
If it was possible to obtain chlorophyll in a state of purity , it I would be very easy to settle this question ; unfortunately all attempts hitherto made to separate and purify chlorophyll have ended in its decomposition .
I consider it as certain that the so-called crystallised chlorophyll which has been described by several authors is in fact a derivative of chlorophyll formed during the process employed for preparing it .
It is , however , very easy to obtain a solution of chlorophyll which shall be quite free from everything soluble in water extracted at the same time from the plant , and therefore free from ready-formed glucose .
In order to effect this , I proceed as follows:\#151 ; Having extracted leaves of any kind with boiling alcohol , I allow the extract to stand for some time , filter off the deposit which usually forms , and then mix it with its own volume of ether and with about two volumes of water , shaking up well .
The liquid now separates into two layers , an upper green one , containing all the chlorophyll of the extract , and a lower bright yellow one , which contains tannin , a yellow colouring-matter , a substance giving the glucose reaction with Pehling 's solution , and probably other substances besides .
The two liquids are separated in the usual way , and the upper one is shaken up with fresh water , which now usually only shows a trace of colour .
This process of washing may be repeated , adding each time a little fresh ether , until the lower layer ceases to give the glucose reaction .
The upper liquid leaves on spontaneous evaporation a bright - green residue , which , though far from being pure chlorophyll , is free from everything soluble in water , and may therefore be employed to determine whether anything soluble in water , such as glucose , is formed by the action of acids on it .
If some of the residue be treated with concentrated sulphuric acid in the cold it dissolves , ^forming a green solution , which , after standing for some time , gives .
1883 .
] Note on the Constitution of Chlorophyll .
a ; f ou the addition of water , a dark green precipitate .
This precipitate % i consists essentially of two substances , the phyllocyanin and phyllo-\#174 ; e xanthin of Fremy , which are undoubtedly products derived from chlorophyll , showing the absorption bands of what is usually called " acid chlorophyll .
" The liquid filtered from this precipitate , when mixed with copper sulphate and an excess of caustic alkali , becomes blue , and the mixture , on boiling , deposits cuprous oxide .
The experiment may be made in a slightly different manner .
The residue left by the green ethereal solution of chlorophyll having been dissolved in alcohol , sulphuric or hydrochloric acid is added to the solution , which is then boiled for some time , evaporated so far as to drive off most of the alcohol , filtered from the products insoluble in water , made alkaline , then mixed with Fehling 's solution and boiled , when the usual glucose reaction takes place .
In order to make sure that the reaction was not due to ready-formed glucose , I took in every case the precaution of testing a portion of the green chlorophyllic residue with Fehling 's solution before acting on the rest with acid .
This was easily done by treating with weak alcohol , to which a little alcoholic potash and some Fehling 's solution were added , and heating , mi rft-l when the whole dissolved easily , giving a green solution , which , on boiling , in- no case deposited the least trace of cuprous oxide , whereas , after adding an excess of hydrochloric acid to the liquid , boiling , filtering off the insoluble products , again making alkaline and boiling , the glucose reaction took place in a marked manner .
This experiment has never in any case failed , and it would follow , if uniformly successful , that the green leaves of all plants contain a glucoside insoluble in water , but soluble in alcohol and ether .
That this glucoside is , in fact , chlorophyll seems to me highly probable .
Nevertheless , absolute certainty eannot be attained , because the matter experimented on is a mixture , and it is possible that one plant out of many might give a decidedly negative- result , which would upset the conclusion drawn from the rest .
Assuming , however , that the phenomena will always occur as above described , and that the reaction with Fehling 's solution indicates the presence of some kind of glucose , it would follow either that chlorophyll is a glucoside , or that it is always accompanied in the vegetable cell by a glucoside of very similar properties .
I may add that I attempted to isolate the glucose or glucose-like substance formed under the circumstances described , spinach leaves being the material employed , and obtained a pale yellow gum-like substance which showed no tendency to assume a crystalline form .

