I. " On the Properties of Liquefied Hydrochloric Acid Gas .
" By GEORGE GoRE , Esq. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received March 30 , 1865 .
In a former communication to the Royal Society " On the Properties of Liquefied Carbonic Acid , " printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1861 ( also in the Journal of the Chemical Society , vol. xv .
, page 163)* , I described a mode of manipulation whereby various solid substances were introduced into that liquefied gas whilst under very great pressures ( varying from 500 to 1100 pounds per square inch ) , and the action of the liquid upon them observed .
The experiments described in the present paper were made in a similar manner , but with some improvements in safety of manipulation , and in the mode of discharging the tubes , so as to recover the immersed solids in a satisfactory state .
The glass tubes in which the gas was condensed were about -Iths of an inch internal diameter , and fully I3ths of an inch external diameter .
Each tube was , before bending , 111 inches long ; it was bent , at 14 inch and 61 inches respectively from one end , to the form already described in the paper referred to , thus giving 5 inches in length for the salt , 5 inches for the acid , and 1+ inch for the liquefied gas .
These distances are essential ; for if the quantities of acid and salt are not properly proportioned to each other , and to the remaining space in the tube , the liquefied product will be very small .
The curve in the tube between the acid and the salt should be very gradual , and the other bend much less so .
The end of the tube containing the salt should be constructed open , with a flange , and be closed securely by a plug of gutta percha in the same manner as the upper end .
The materials used were strong sulphuric acid and fragments of salammoniac .
Each tube was placed in a deal frame or box 10 inches high , 8 inches wide , and 4 inches from front to back , open at the back , and with a front or door of wire gauze .
The tube was supported by a cork fitting into a hole in the side of the frame , and was secured within a notch in the cork by a ligature of wire .
By means of this arrangement the acid and salt were brought into mutual contact by turning the box itself , without incurring the danger of putting one 's hand inside the box and turning the tube alone , as in the former experiments .
The annexed figures ( 1 &amp; 2 ) represent the position of the box , 1st , when charged and ready for the decomposition of the sal-ammoniac ; and 2nd , after the decomposition is completed .
The arrows indicate the direction in which the box is turned .
The action at first should be very slow ; otherwise the bubbles of gas will convey the sulphuric acid into the short end of the tube , and endanger the purity of the liquefied hydrochloric acid .
The action of the acid was less violent than when generating carbonic acid , and the process was less frequently stopped by clogging of the tube .
The liquefied gas was condensed in contact with the various solid bodies by application ( from behind ) of cotton wool , wetted with ether , to the short end of the tube , as in the former experiments .
Each tube was discharged of its contents by taking hold of it with an ordinary wooden screw clamp support , and immersing its lower end in a vessel of nearly boiling water behind a protecting screen .
The explosion are 2 1865 .
] 205 quickly occurred , generally without fracture of the tube , and the substances operated upon could in nearly all cases be readily extracted for examination without suffering injury by coming into contact with the saline contents of the tube .
Powdered substances , however , were frequently lost during the discharge , owing to the sudden expansion of the gas in their pores expelling them from the small glass cup .
The great degree of pressure ( probably about 700 pounds per square inch and upwards ) to which the various substances were subjected , frequently made them very hard .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
The chief inconvenience met with in these experiments arose from the action of the liquefied acid upon the upper gutta-percha stopper , causing the acid to become dark red-brown and opaque , and preventing accurate observation of the substances also , on discharge of the tube , causing the glass cup and its contents to become coated with a tenacious film of gutta percha .
To obviate this inconvenience as much as possible , the inner end of the upper stopper was carefully coated with melted paraffin .
During the early part of each experiment , the liquefied acid was repeatedly poured back , and redistilled by the application of ether , in order to free it from colour imparted to it by the stopper , and also to make its solvent or other action upon the immersed body more rapid .
The action of the liquid acid upon the bodies was only continued a few days ; and in many cases the acid was not in a liquid state the whole of the time , but only at intervals ; in all cases , however , the period of immersion was abundantly sufficient for the liquefied acid to produce its full effect .
The effects in nearly all cases were of so distinct a character , and the conditions under which they were produced so definite , as not to require repetitions of the experiments ; but those which were in any respect uncertain were repeated , and those also which were of an important or striking character were likewise repeated , in order to remove the least shadow of a doubt that might be raised respecting them .
[ May 4 , 206 The liquid acid is a very feeble conductor of electricity .
Two fine platinum wires , immersed in it -ths of an inch in length and -I th of an inch asunder , and connected with a series of 10 Smee 's elements , evolved no perceptible bubbles of gas , and produced only a moderate deflection ( amounting to 23 degrees ) of the needles of a sensitive galvanometer ; and this amount of conduction might possibly have been due to a minute trace of oil of vitriol mixed with the liquid acid .
In a second similar experiment , with the wires -il-th of an inch apart , not the slightest conduction occurred on using the same battery-power , but by employing the secondary current of a strong induction-coil with condenser attached , conduction and a steady deflection of the needles of the galvanometer ( 26 degrees ) took place , gas being freely evolved from the negative wire only .
On separating the brass points of the secondary terminals beyond the distance of the thickness of a thin address card , sparks ceased to pass between those points , and gas was evolved copiously in the liquid acid , apparently in the mass of the acid between the two platinum wires as well as at the wires themselves ; two similar platinum wires in dilute hydrochloric acid in the same circuit evolved very little gas .
It is probable that much of the gas evolved in the liquefied acid was not a product of electrolysis , but simply the acid itself volatilized by the thermic or other action of the current .
No sparks occurred at any time in the liquid acid .
It is evident therefore that liquefied hydrochloric acid gas is a very bad conductor of electricity , but it is not nearly so powerful an insulator as liquefied carbonic acid gas .
The following experiments illustrate its chemical , solvent , or other action upon various substances immersed in it .
The quantity of the solid substances employed was in nearly all cases very small in proportion to that of the liquid acid in contact with them , and in many cases did not amount to one-twentieth of its volume .
A piece of charcoal remained unchanged at the end of ten days , the acid being in a liquid state in contact with it at intervals .
A fragment of fused boracic acid did not lessen in bulk or alter in appearance in seven days .
White phosphorus was undissolved and unchanged in nine days , and remained equally inflammable .
A fragment of ordinary sulphur did not dissolve or alter in several days .
Fragments of vitreous black selenium did not dissolve or change in six days .
Iodine dissolved rather freely , and quickly formed a purple-red solution .
A piece of pentachlo .
ride of phosphorus softened in the gaseous acid , and dissolved quickly and completely in the liquid acid , forming a colourless solution .
A fragment of sesquicarbonate of ammonia swelled and became full of fissures in the gaseous acid , but neither evolved gas nor dissolved when the liquid acid came into contact with it ; after three days ' intermittent immersion in the liquid acid , the saline residue evolved no gas on immersion in dilute hydrochloric acid .
A piece of sal-ammoniac , immersed almost constantly during nine days , remained undissolved and unchanged .
1865 .
] 207 Potassium evolved no gas when the liquid acid came into contact with it ; after eight days it was sometimes enlarged in bulk , and from the outset it was of a white colour ; it did not at all dissolve .
In a second experiment the results were precisely similar ; after three days ' intermittent immersion the saline residue showed no signs of containing free potassium on immersing it in dilute hydrochloric acid .
Anhydrous carbonate of potash in powder evolved no gas on first coming into contact with the liquid acid ; after three days ' occasional immersion it remained undissolved , and the residue evolved no carbonic acid on immersion in dilute hydrochloric acid .
A crystal of chloride of potassium did not dissolve or change in appearance by four hours ' immersion in the liquefied acid .
Powdered chlorate of potash imparted a yellow colour to the liquid acid , and did not lessen in bulk during three days ' constant immersion ; the upper gutta-percha stopper became quite white at its inner end .
A crystal of nitrate of potash became of a brownish colour before the gas liquefied , and remained undissolved after six days ' intermittent immersion ; the upper gutta-percha stopper was unusully acted upon , and of a nankeen colour .
Sodium became white and swelled largely before the gas liquefied .
No visible gas was evolved by it in the liquid acid .
After three days ' intermittent immersion the residue contained no sodium in the metallic state , and no portionof it imparted a blue colour to damp litmus paper .
Anhydrous carbonate of soda in powder immersed one hour and a quarter in the liquid acid evolved no visible bubbles of gas , and lost its alkaline reaction ( with litmus paper ) to about three-fourths of its depth .
A fragment of fused sulphide of sodium produced a slight sublimate of a yellowish-white colour in the gaseous acid , and turned of a yellowish-white colour .
It evolved no visible gas in the liquefied acid* .
After three days ' variable immersion it was of a yellowish-white colour , and somewhat enlarged in bulk ; the residue evolved no sulphuretted hydrogen by immersion in dilute hydrochloric acid , and its solution gave a perfectly white precipitate with acetate of lead , and imparted no dark colour to sulphate of copper .
Precipitated carbonate of baryta in powder evolved no visible gas by immersion in the liquid acid ; it remained undissolved and unchanged in appearance during three days ' immersion ; the residue evolved a minute quantity of gas by contact with dilute hydrochloric acid .
Precipitated carbonate of strontia in powder behaved like carbonate of baryta ; the residue , after three days ' immersion , was lost during the discharge .
A minute fragment of anhydrous Bristol lime exhibited no solution or alteration by nearly constant immersion during eight days in the liquid acid .
On removal from the tube , it imparted a strong blue colour to neutral litmus paper by slight friction .
On fracture it was found similarly alka* Probably the sulphuretted hydrogen set free was in a liquid state , and therefore no bubbles of gas appeared .
I found by experiment that hydrochloric acid and hydrosulphuric acid , generated together and condensed into a liquid state , did not form two separate strata of liquid .
208 [ May 4 , line throughout , and exhibited a slight change of colour , extending from its surface to the centre , as if the gas or liquid had been forced into its pores .
In a second experiment of three days ' intermittent immersion , precisely similar effects were obtained .
Several minute fragments of very soft marble were immersed in the liquid acid at intervals during seven days .
No gas was evolved when the liquid touched them .
On removal from the acid , their physical characters appeared unaltered ; they were insoluble in water , but quickly dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid , with copious evolution of gas .
A fragment of bone-earth did not dissolve or alter in appearance during seven days .
Bright magnesium ribbon slowly became dull in the liquid acid , without visible evolution of gas ; after seven days ' intermittent immersion it was still ( with the exception of a thin film ) in the metallic state .
In a second experiment of three days ' constant immersion , similar effects occurred ; the residue dissolved and floated in dilute sulphuric acid , with copious evolution of gas .
A wire of magnesium and one of platinum immersed in the liquid acid , and connected with a sensitive galvanometer , evolved no perceptible electric current , and only a barely perceptible current after two days of constant immersion .
Calcined magnesia in powder did not dissolve or alter in appearance during four days ' nearly constant immersion .
Oxide of cerium ( containing some oxide of didymium and lanthanum ) remained undissolved and unchanged in colour during nine days ; the residue was insoluble in water .
Metallic aluminium became dull in the gas , and quickly dissolved , with evolution of gas , when the liquid acid came into contact with it , and formed a colourless solution .
A wire of aluminium and one of platinum , immersed Ith of an inch apart in the liquefied acid , and connected with a sensitive galvanometer , produced a steady deflection of 12degrees , the aluminium being positive ; the deflection gradually increased to 17 degrees in one hour , and two layers of liquid formed , the lower one brown in colour , and the upper one nearly colourless .
The conductivity of the liquid acid was probably increased by the metallic aluminium dissolved in it .
Precipitated alumina did not visibly alter or dissolve during six days ; the residue deliquesced in damp air .
Precipitated silica in powder did not dissolve or visibly alter during four days .
Precipitated titanic acid in powder ( pale flesh-colour ) slightly dissolved in seven days .
A fragment of fused tungstate of soda did not alter in bulk during ten days ; it had then acquired a superficial green colour .
Molybdic acid in powder turned dark green , but remained undissolved at the end of nine days .
Native sulphide of molybdenum remained undissolved and apparently unchanged during two days .
Molybdate of ammonia in powder became yellowish green in the gas ; it became grass-green in colour in the liquefied acid , but did not dissolve in four days .
Sesquioxide of chromium in powder did not dissolve in six days , but became of a dull blackishbrown colour .
A fragment of anhydrous yellow chromate of potash became red before the gas liquefied , but did not dissolve or otherwise alter in the liquid acid .
Sesquioxide of uranium became of a paler yellow colour in the gas , but did not dissolve in the liquid acid in six days ; the residue was entirely soluble in water .
Precipitated black oxide of manganese in powder , and free from water , became quite white in the gas ; it remained white in the liquid acid without evolving visible bubbles of gas , and did not lessen in bulk in seven days .
A crystal of permanganate of potash softened and swelled in the liquid acid , but did not dissolve in five days ; it remained of a dark colour ; the residue placed in distilled water produced no coloration .
A crystal of metallic arsenic remained perfectly bright and unchanged in bulk during three days ' immersion .
Arsenious acid in powder quickly liquefied in the gas , and dissolved to a colourless solution in the liquid acid .
A crystal of arsenic acid softened before the gas liquefied , and dissolved quickly and freely in the liquid acid to a colourless solution .
Bisulphide of arsenic in powder did not dissolve in six days , but became slightly less red and more yellow ; a slight yellowish-white sublimate occurred in the tube during the generation of the gas .
Teriodide of arsenic in powder slightly dissolved to a purple-red liquid ; apparently only a trace of its iodine was extracted , as its bulk was not visibly less in three days .
A crystal of bright antimony remained perfectly bright and unchanged after nine days ' intermittent immersion .
Precipitated teroxide of antimony became partly liquid before the gas liquefied ; it dissolved in the liquid acid quickly and rather freely , and made a colourless solution .
A fragment of precipitated antimonic acid did not dissolve in six days .
A fragment of black tersulphide of antimony evolved a film of yellowish-white sublimate , and lessened in bulk before the gas liquefied ; it decomposed and dissolved in the liquid acid in about a quarter of an hour , and formed a colourless solution which exhibited no further change during seven days .
A fragment of bright metallic bismuth remained undissolved and unchanged in the liquid during three days .
Bright zinc evolved no visible gas in the liquid acid , and was not perceptibly corroded in three days .
Oxide of zinc slowly dissolved in seven days .
Metallic cadmium evolved no gas in the liquid , and was not sensibly corroded in three days .
Precipitated carbonate of cadmium evolved no visible gas in the liquid acid , and remained undissolved and unchanged in appearance during seven days .
Yellow sulphide of cadmium evolved a trace of white sublimate before the gas liquefied ; in the liquid acid it became quite white , and remained undissolved in seven days ; on removal it was hard in texture and quite white throughout , and evolved no odour of sulphuretted hydrogen or separation of sulphur on treatment with strong nitric acid .
Bright tin evolved no visible gas in the liquid acid ; after ten days ' intermittent immersion it was converted , to some depth of its substance , into a bulky white solid with deep fissures .
In a second experiment of three days ' immersion , similar results occurred ; all the tin was corroded except a minute fibre in the centre , the white solid was imper .
210 [ May 4 , fectly soluble in water , but instantly soluble in dilute hydrochloric acid .
Binoxide of tin in powder did not dissolve in seven days ; the residue was white and insoluble in water .
A crystal of protochloride of tin softened before the gas liquefied , and partly dissolved in the liquid acid in four days .
Bright metallic thallium evolved no gas in the liquid acid , and was only superficially blackened without further corrosion after three days ' immersion .
Metallic lead did not evolve visible gas in the liquefied acid ; it became blackened at first , and in ten days was corroded deeply to a white substance .
Red oxide of lead quickly became white in the liquid acid , but did not dissolve in seven days ; it was then quite hard , white throughout , and not readily soluble in water .
Precipitated carbonate of lead evolved no visible gas in the liquid acid , and remained undissolved after three days ' immersion ; the residue evolved no gas by contact with dilute hydrochloric acid .
Precipitated sulphide of lead in powder produced a faint film of white sublimate in the gas , and by a few hours ' immersion in the liquid acid became wholly white ; it did not not dissolve during seven days , and was.then quite white throughout , and not readily soluble in water .
Yellow iodide of lead did not dissolve in seven days , but became of a purplish brick-brown colour and evolved a strong odour of free iodine ; it produced yellowish-brown stains upon paper .
Yellow chromate of lead evolved at first ( in the gaseous acid ) a small quantity of deep-red vapour , which condensed as a red moisture near it on the tube ; the chromate became white in the gas , and did not dissolve in the liquid acid in three days ; it was then a soft white solid , not freely soluble in water , and imparted a faint greenish tint to water .
A minute fragment of iron remained bright , and evolved no gas when the liquid acid came into contact with it ; after nine days of intermittent immersion it was only slightly tarnished , and on removal from the acid was found otherwise unaltered .
A fragment of fused sulphide of iron produced a faint film of whitish sublimate at first , but evolved no bubbles of gas on contact with the liquid acid ; it did not dissolve or alter in appearance .
A second fragment constantly immersed during three days behaved similarly ; it was as hard as before immersion , and evolved sulphuretted hydrogen freely in hot dilute sulphuric acid .
A crystal of green vitriol became yellowish white and opaque in the liquid acid , but did not diminish in volume in six days ; the residue was a soft opaque yellowish-white solid .
Oxide of cobalt in powder exhibited no change or solution during three days ; on removal it was found to be very hard , of a light-brown colour , and dissolved in water , producing a pink solution with separation of black oxide .
Peach-coloured carbonate of cobalt evolved no visible gas in the liquid acid ; it became greenish blue , but did not lessen in bulk in three days ; the residue became pink in the air , and dissolved almost completely in water , forming a pink liquid ; it also dissolved in dilute hydrochoric acid without evolving bubbles of gas .
Anhydrous chloride of nickel did not dissolve in the liquid acid in six days .
Metallic copper soon lost its brightness 1865 .
] 211 in the gas ; it evolved no gas in the liquid acid , and was only slightly corroded after seven days .
Black oxide of copper became of a lighter colour in the liquid acid , but did not lessen in bulk in seven days ; the residue was a greenish and yellowish white powder , which instantly turned black in water , forming a pale-blue solution , and left black oxide of copper .
A crystal of blue vitriol became of a light brown colour in the liquid acid , but did not dissolve in six days ; on removal it was found to be a brown soft solid .
Protoxide of mercury became white in the gas , and did not dissolve by constant immersion in the liquid acid in four days ; the residue was a white solid , soluble in water .
Vermilion in powder slowly changed in the liquid acid in three days to a pinkish-white solid , but did not dissolve .
Scarlet iodide of mercury in powder imparted a red colour to the liquid acid , but did not lessen in bulk or change in colour during three days ; the residue lost its red colour on the application of heat .
A fragment of protochloride of mercury did not visibly alter in the liquid acid in four days .
Metallic silver did not dissolve or become much corroded during seven days .
Oxide of silver became white in the liquid acid in one day , but did not dissolve .
Precipitated chloride of silver in powder did not visibly alter or dissolve during sixteen days .
Metallic platinum was unaffected in the liquid acid .
Oxalic acid was slightly dissolved in the liquid acid in three days without change of colour .
Uric acid remained undissolved and unchanged during three days .
Paraffin did not appear to be dissolved or affected in nine days .
Gutta percha was quickly acted upon ; it imparted to the liquid acid , first a red , and ultimately a dark-brown colour ; it appeared also to dissolve in the acid to some extent , and on discharging the tubes was left behind as a tenacious coating upon the adjacent parts .
Gun-cotton was unaffected in the liquid acid .
Cotton was not visibly altered in two days .
Solid extract of litmus dissolved slightly , forming a faintly purple blue or inky solution ; it became of a dark red colour and enlarged in bulk ; the residue formed a perfect solution in water ; the solution was red in colour .
Remarks.-The foregoing experiments show that liquid hydrochloric acid has but a feeble solvent power for solid bodies in general .
Out of 86 solids it dissolved only 12 , and some of those only in a minute degree ; of 5 metalloids it dissolved 1 , viz. iodine ; of 15 metals it dissolved only 1 , viz. aluminium ; of 22 oxides it dissolved 5 , viz. titanic acid , arsenious acid , arsenic acid , teroxide of antimony , and oxide of zinc ; of 9 carbonates it dissolved none ; of 8 sulphides it dissolved 1 , viz. tersulphide of antimony ; of 7 chlorides it dissolved 2 , viz. pentachloride of phosphorus and protochloride of tin ; and of 7 organic bodies it dissolved 2 .
The results show also that liquid hydrochloric acid in the anhydrous state manifests much less chemical action upon solid bodies than the same acid when mixed with water as under ordinary circumstances ; for instance , the difference of its action upon magnesium , zinc , cadmium , and even aluminium , under the two conditions , is very conspicuous .
This may 212 [ May 4 , arise in a great measure from its feeble solvent capacity-insoluble films forming upon the surface of the bodies immersed in it preventing its continued contact and further action .
This want of contact could hardly have been the case in the remarkable instance of caustic lime : here was a powerful and true acid ( i. e. a hydrogen acid ) and a powerful base ; each in a nearly pure state ; both possessing under ordinary circumstances a very powerful chemical affinity for each other ; the one a liquid , and the other a porous solid ; brought into intimate contact by an enormous pressure forcing the liquid into the porous solid ; the solid base being very small in bulk , and the liquid acid largely in excess , probably fifty times the quantity necessary for its saturation ; and the action extended over a far greater period of time than would in the presence of water been at all necessary : nevertheless no perceptible chemical action occurred ; the two remained totally uncombined .
It must not be overlooked that the results are partly due to anhydrous hydrochloric acid in the liquid state , and partly to the same acid in the gaseous state , under great pressure , the one class of effects not being eliminated from the other in the present experiments ; it is probable that if the substances could have been submitted to the action of the liquid acid alone , the chemical effects would have been much smaller even than they were .
For instance , the action upon potassium , sodium , and tin appeared to be due to the influence of the acid in the gaseous state , as no gas was perceptibly evolved by these metals in the liquid acid .
In the cases of potassium and sodium ( the latter in particular ) it is perhaps possible , though highly improbable , that the whole of the metal had been corroded before the liquid acid touched it ; but with tin this was certainly not the case , some metallic tin being left uncorroded at the end of the experiment .
Oxides in general , with the exception of lime and certain others which do not readily combine with aqueous hydrochloric acid , were slowly converted in a greater or less degree into chlorides .
Carbonates also , except that of lime , were in general converted in a greater or less degree into chlorides .
Such carbonates as were decomposed evolved no visible bubbles of gas in the liquid acid : this may be explained on the supposition that they were previously completely decomposed by the gaseous acid during the process of generation ( this , however , was not the case with carbonate of soda ) , or that the liberated carbonic acid was in the liquid state and was dissolved by the liquid hydrochloric acid .
In my former paper it was shown that liquid carbonic and hydrochloric acids generated and condensed together did not form two separate strata of liquid .
Sulphides were in some cases converted into chlorides ; in other cases not so ; in nearly all cases a trace of whitish sublimate was produced in the gaseous acid .
The chlorate and nitrate of potash were both decomposed .
I may here take the opportunity of stating that tubes charged with liquid carbonic acid in October 1860 suffered no leakage by February 1865 .

