III .
" Remarks on the Nature of Electric Energy , and on the Means by which it is transmitted .
" By CHARLES BROOKE , M.A. , F.R.S. , P.M.S. , &amp;c. Received March 19 , 1867 .
The writer has clearly shown the interchange of thermic and dynamic energy at the point of junction of the bars of a thermo-electric element of antimony and bismuth* , and he has also pointed outt that the dynamic nature of electric energy is not less clearly irndicated by the long-known fact that an ordinary voltaic current always commences with a rush , as it were , the instant that the circuit is closed .
The dynamic cause of this is clearly pointed out by an experiment due to the genius of Prof. Wheatstone .
If a tuning-fork , the tail of which is inserted longitudinally into a wooden handle , like a file or chisel , be made to vibrate , and the end of the handle rested obliquely on a table , the resonance of the table will instantly be heard ; but on moving the diapason parallel to itself in any Mr. C. Brooke on the Nature 408 [ March 21 , '* P ?
hil .
2Mag .
BNov .
1866 .
t Ibid. Dec. direction on the table , the resonance ceases , from the perpetual interference of the successive planes of vibration with each other .
But now comes the illustration:-On arresting the motion of translation , the resonance immediately recommences , but with a rush or momentary increase of sound : this must unquestionably arise from the resistance offered by the inertia of the molecules of wood to the recommencement of wave-motion ; and the parallel phenomenon in electricity may undoubtedly be similarly accounted for .
And the reflex momentary current ( the terminal extra-current of Faraday ) , which is well known to take place at the instant of opening the circuit , is equally susceptible of a dynamic interpretation : it is the analogue of the wave reflected from the fixed end of a stretched cord , after having been imparted by the hand to the free end .
The dynamic nature of electric energy is clearly indicated by the dynamo-electric* machine of Holtz , in which dynamic is directly converted into electric energy , and by the cognate machines of Wilde , Wheatstone , Siemens , and Lad , in all of which alike there is an intervening conversion of dynamic into magnetic energy .
The enormous amount of currentenergy evolved in Mr. Wilde 's machine when the power of a steam-engine is employed to rotate the armatures may be judged of by the fact that a long piece of platinum wire 0'2 inch in thickness was seen to be disintegrated and partially fused .
It is difficult to conceive that in these instances dynamic energy can be converted into magnetic " fluid , " and that again into thermic energy .
the conversion of motion into matter , and the subsequent reconversion of matter into motion , are obviously impossible .
Some further consideration of the effects of electric energy may serve to indicate the probable nature of the wave-motion .
The facts of electric and magnetic polarity imply and necessitate a polarity or directionality il the motion itself , which has no analogue in the waves of sound , light , or heat .
This requirement is fully met by the hypothesis of a circular spiral wave , the motion of which is direct or positive if viewed from one end , and retrograde or negative if from the other ; and this suffices to explain the well-known polarity of electric and magnetic induction .
Thus far the spiral hypothesis is merely inferential ; but in regard to magnetic wave-motion some strong presumptive evidence may be adduced .
It appears from the experiments of Mr. Joule , made more than twenty years ago , that if a suspended mass of copper be , by twisting the suspension , made to rotate between the poles of an unexcited electro-magnet , the rotation of the mass is arrested the instant the magnet is excited ; and furthermore , if the mass be forcibly rotated , heat is developed in it .
And it has since been ascertained that if two cylindrical magnets be so placed that their axes lie in the same straight line , their contrary poles being opposed to each other , then , if a cylinder of copper be made to rotate on its own axis , coinciding with the common axis of the magnets , no heat will be evolved by its rotation .
Now these phenomena must alike be the necessary consequences of the assumed dynamical theory ; for if the copper molecules be thrown into spiral-wave motion , analogous to that of a pencil of circularly polarized light , then the motion of all the disturbed particles will be one of revolution in planes to which the lines of magnetic force are normals : and the inertia or energy of rotation ( as it has been variously termed ) , the resistance offered by each revolving particle to any change in the direction of its axis of revolution ( as exemplified by the gyroscope ) , will resist the rotation of the mass in any direction perpendicular to that of the axes of molecular revolution , and arrest its motion .
And conversely , if the mass be forcibly rotated in the above direction , or in any other direction at right angles to the lines of magnetic force , heat will be freely developed , doubtless by internal friction arising from the perpetual displacement of the planes of molecular revolution .
But in the second case , the axis of rotation of the mass coincides in direction with those of the axes of molecular revolution ; hence there is no displacement of the molecular orbits , and consequently no internal friction , and very little if any heat is generated .
The rotatory character of the magnetic wave is further confirmed by the known fact that , if a plane-polarized beam pass through a transparent solid in the direction of the lines of force of a powerful electro-magnet , the plane of polarization will be rotated the instant that the magnet is excited .
The truth of a theory can be established only by the verification of its necessary consequences ; and it may not be too much to assume that in the present case the evidence already adduced by the writer is , in the entire absence of all contradictory evidence , strongly presumptive of the reality of the hypothesis .
It has been authoritatively stated that ordinary electric and magnetic waves cannot both be assumed to be spirals , because each of these forms of energy notoriously evolves the other in a direction perpendicular to its course ; and the question is not without grave dynamical difficulties ; but they may perhaps not be insuperable .
It may possibly be that , from some unknown constraining condition or property inherent in magnetic bodies , a spiral wave , on being constrained into a spiral course , may lose its original spirality , and become a secondary spiral , having molecular motion in a direction perpendicular to that of the primary spiral .
The relations between electric energy and some of its observed physical results having thus been inferred , the question next arises as to the nature of the media by which the several modes of motion are transmitted .
It is unquestionable that sound-waves are transmissible by all kinds of matter ; but can any valid reason be assigned in favour of the still prevalent opinion that other modes of wave-motion are incapable of transmission by ordinary matter ?
-this incapacity being implied in the adoption of the self-contradictory hypothesis of an imaginary medium , not cognizable by any known means of perception .
It is a remarkable fact that in all the superseded crude notions of physical causation , each phase of physical energy has been presented in the garb either of impalpable , imponderable ( in fact immaterial ) matter itself , or of the vibrations thereof ; and to some of these hypotheses have been successively added some violent supplementary hypothesis , in order adequately to meet the requirements of advancing knowledge .
To begin with chemical action:-What are now universally recognized as simple metals were once supposed to consist of some earthy matter ( their oxides ) combined with " Phlogiston , ' the material principle of brilliancy .
But , unfortunately for the theory , it was soon found that the metals , on parting with their share of phlogiston ( i.e. becoming oxidated ) , not only did not lose any , but actually acquired weight ; therefore phlogiston was assumed to be not only imponderable , but hyper-imponderablei .
e. endowed with the property of absolute levity , or negative weight !
In the next place , the Newtonian theory of light assumed light to consist of molecules ( of course imponderable ) emanating from the source of light , and impinging on the perceptive organs of vision .
But this hypothesis would not fit the phenomena of diffraction and interference ; and to suit these physical facts the molecules must either be throvn into periodical " fits " of transmission or reflection , or the ray must be a row of egg-shaped molecules perpetually making isoperiodic somersaults , and plunging into a medium if they come on their heads , or bounding off if they fall against it sideways .
Then , again , heat was supposed to consist of material particles emanating from the source of heat ; and as a ball of ice placed in one focus of a concave mirror was found to lower the temperature of a thermometer placed in the conjugate focus , there were assumed to be particles of cold , as well as of heat : it is needless to add how completely the theory of exchanges accounts for these facts .
At length these wild speculations were superseded , and light and heat were admitted into the category of wave-motion ; but electricity and magnetism were still supposed to be either single or dual forms of " fluid " matter ; and ( ' Saxa etiam molli dura teruntur aqua " ) these " fluids " are probably still running in the deep channels they have worn in some philosophic minds .
But the principle of admitting imponderability into the category of legitimate physical hypotheses had become tacitly accepted ; and the conclusion was at once jumped at by the authors of the undulatory theory that the wave-motions of light and heat take place in an imponderable highly elastic fluid medium , pervading all space , and all matter , denominated " rether : " and this theory , with all its inconsistencies and inconsequences , is still in all probability generally entertained .
That some highly elastic and attenuated medium pervades infinite space , as the medium of transmission of the energies of light and heat ( the very main-springs of organic existence ) from the centre of each solar system to its dependent satellites , is a necessary consequence of the undulatory theory : its existence is , in fact , demonstrated by the periodic retardation of Encke 's Comet .
But the remainder of the hypothesis , namely that all palpable matter is pervaded by aether for the purpose of transmitting lightand heat-waves , is by no means equally necessary , or even tenable ; for not a shadow of evidence of the inadequacy of all matter to transmit these motions has ever been produced , and in default of such evidence , the contrary hypothesis is at least equally tenable : and moreover the interstitial-tether theory ( in common with all preceding physical theories involving imponderability ) is burdened with grave inconsistencies .
In the first place the well-known phenomena of single and double refraction and polarization , whether of light or heat , necessitate the somewhat violent hypothesis that the elasticity of the supposed transmitting medium , rether , is not , as it is in all cognizable fluids , a fixed and certain quality capable of numerical estimation , but an ever-varying quality , depending quantitatively on the elasticity of adjacent matter , and even varying in tzoo or three directions within the same body : it would be not more repugnant to reason to assume that the elasticity of a gas is one thing in a glass bottle and another in one of brass , or that the specific gravity of silver is a function of the moon 's age , or the melting-point of gold dependent on the sun 's zenith-distance .
Secondly , the fundamental ideas of inertia , energy , and " work " are inseparably associated with gravitation ; and it seems to imply a contradiction of terms , to impute either inertia or energy ( i. e. the capability of doing work ) to an imponderable particle , which is consequently destitute of attraction for any other particle in the universe .
The known enormous velocity ( of probably not less than 250,000 miles in a second ) at which electricity travels through a copper conductor is complete evidence that ordinary matter is capable of transmitting something ( whether matter or motion it signifies nothing for the present argument ) at a considerably greater velocity than the waves of light and heat ; why should not appropriate kinds of matter be assumed capable of transmitting these also ?
And if so , the need of the interstitial presence of aether ceases altogether ; and it may with great advantage be excluded from the domains of ponderable palpable matter by the very mild hypothesis that it is not miscible with air , any more than oil , or palpable ether , with water , but that it floats above the boundary surface of our atmosphere .
This hypothesis is not repugnant to reason , nor adverse to physical experience .
On this supposition it is no longer needed to impute to aether imponderability ; it will then be competent to fulfil its divine mission of transmitting light and heat , without doing any violence to some of the most fundamental notions of dynamics ; and thus imponderability may cease to be reckoned amongst the physical attributes of matter .

