The Bakerian Lecture .
On the best kind of Steel and Form for a Compass Needle .
By Captain Henry Kater , F.R.S. Read Feb. 1 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 104 .
] On the return of the first expedition from the discovery of a North-west Passage , the compasses were reported to have become nearly useless , from the diminution of the directive force consequent upon the near approach to the magnetic pole .
The azimuth compasses on that occasion being of the author 's invention , he was anxious that the second expedition should be furnished with instruments combining the utmost power and sensibility ; and was consequently led to the researches , the mode of conducting which , with their results , form the subject of this lecture .
In respect to the best material for the construction of compass needles , Captain Kater found that clock springs made of sheer steel were capable of receiving the greatest magnetic force , and that in forming the needle it should be exposed as little as possible to heat , by which its capability of receiving magnetism is diminished .
The form best adapted for the needle is the pierced rhombus , of about five inches long and two wide , and it should be tempered by previous hardening at a red heat , and then softened from the middle to about an inch from each extremity , by due exposure to heat , so as to dissipate the blue colour .
The polish of the needle appears to have no effect upon its magnetism ; but in the same plate of steel , of the size of a few square inches only , portions were found varying considerably in their power of receiving magnetism , though not apparently differing in other respects .
The best mode of communicating magnetism to a needle appears , from Captain Kater 's experiments , to consist in placing it in the magnetic meridian , joining the opposite poles of a pair of bar magnets , ( they being in the same line , ) and laying them flat upon the needle , with their poles upon its centre ; then , having elevated the distant extremities of the magnets , so that they may form an angle of about 20 or 30 with the needle , they are to be drawn from the centre to its extremities , carefully preserving the same inclination ; and having joined the poles of the magnets at a distance from the needle , the operation is to be repeated ten or twelve times upon each surface .
In needles from five to eight inches long , their weights being equal , Captain Kater found their directive forces nearly as the lengths ; but in needles of nearly the same length and form , the directive force is as the mass , and not dependent upon the extent of surface .
Lastly , the author ascertained that the deviation of a compass needle , occasioned by the attraction of soft iron , depends , as MrI Barlow has advanced , upon extent of surface , and is wholly independent of the mass ; excepting that a thickness of the iron , amounting to about two tenths of an inch , is requisite to the complete development of the attractive energy .

