An Account of some Experiments on different Combinations of Fluoric Acid .
By John Davy , Esq. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Knt. LL. D. Sec. R.S. Read June 11 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 352 .
] The subject of this communication is divided into four sections , the first of which relates to silicated fluoric acid gas , and to subsilicated fluoric acid ; the second to the combinations of these acids , and of pure fluoric acid with ammonia ; the third relates to fluoboracic acid ; and the fourth to the compound of this acid with ammonia .
For obtaining silicated fluoric gas , the author mixes finely-powdered glass with the materials which , at the same time that it increases the product , saves the retort from the action of the acid .
In order to discover the proportion of its constituent parts , the gas was transferred to a solution of ammonia , which gave a precipitate of 272 grains silica from 40 cubic inches of the gas , amounting to 61-4 per cent. , the rest being mere fluoric acid .
When this gas is united to water , it deposits a portion of its silica , but still retains more than 54 per cent. By an experiment conducted with care , water was found to decompose about 263 times its bulk of this gas ; but by subsequent trials it appeared capable of absorbing as much as 365 times its volume .
Though this gas , in combining with ammoniacal gas , requires twice its bulk for saturation , the proportion of their densities is such , that the acid exceeds the ammonia in weight more than 3 to 1 .
In combining with dry ammonia , it retains the whole of its silica , and the compound may be sublimed unaltered ; but when it is dissolved in water , it loses a part of its silica , and will deposit the whole by excess of ammonia , or by addition of other alkaline solutions .
This subsilicated fluate of ammonia is likewise decomposed by sulphuric acid or by muriatic acid gas .
When the subsilicated fluate has been decomposed by an excess of ammonia , and evaporated in a vessel of platina , a simple fluate of ammonia is obtained ; and it is estimated to consist of 76'4 ammonia , and 23-6 fluoric acid .
For the formation of fluoboracic acid gas , discovered by MM .
GayLussac and Thenard , Mr. Davy mixes powdered boracic acid , instead of powdered glass , with fluor spar and sulphuric acid : 100 cubic inches of this gas were found to weigh 73grains .
Water condenses 700 times its bulk of this gas .
Sulphuric acid absorbs about 50 times its bulk .
Equal volumes of this gas , and of ammoniacal gas , form a solid salt , that may be sublimed unaltered by a gentle heat .
If another equal volume of ammonia be added , the whole becomes fluid , and will absorb still another equal portion of ammonia without apparent change .
The excess of ammonia , however , is but loosely combined , and may be expelled by a gentle heat , or by simple exposure to the air .

