]\gt ; 1881 .
] Notes on Physixal .
473 the augle ubtended at the slit by the objective of the collimabor .
It should be a little ]arger than what is just sufficient to take the largest pencil that is to be observed , but not beyond that .
The ob.iect in keeping it as small as conveniently may be , is that only a trifling change of focus may be required when the instrument is pushed aside altogether , and the slit viewed directly through spectroscope , without ths loss of due to the two reflections .
The compensating plate is represented as placed at the narrow end of the prism , which permits of the two being cemented t , oge .
there , cilitating the support .
I do not think that the mlnue of light which is reflected at , and scattered at the surface ( even though blackened ) FC in such a direction as to mingle with direct light would be any inconvenience , being too faint to be visible at all .
If it were wished to avoid this , or to get more easy access to the surfaces AD , BC , for cleaning if requisite , the plate be laced at the other side ; but in that case it must not be cemented to AB , as that surface is wanted for-total refiection .
The little instrument I have suggested may convenient ] be called a slit-reverser , to distinguish it from other arrangements which been proposed , and in which the spectrum itself is reversed .
P.S. Feb. 21.\mdash ; The method proposed above is more directly applicable to such an object as the comparison of really or apparently coincident lines in the spectra of two elements than to astronomical measurements , because in the latter case a part of the difficulty arises from a want of pel .
fact accuracy in the clockwork movement of the equatoreal .
Yet I cannot help thinking that even for astronomical work the method will be found useful ; for we can pass in a moment from the direct to the reflected image of the slit , vice taking the measures alternately in the two modes , and them exactly as in with , balance that is still error progressive with the time would tend to be ] iminated .
II .
' Notes on Physical Geology .
No. .
On the Secular Inequalities in Terrestrial Climates depending 011 the Perihelion Longitude and Eccentricity of the ) 's Orbit By the Rev. HAUGHTON , Professor of Geology 111 the University of Dublin .
Beceived February 19 , 1881 .
The attention of geologists was first called by M. , and afterwards more fully by Mr. James Croll , to the ible importance of these long inequalities in climate , in .
the climates of geological periods , which differ considerably from those of the present Rev. S. Haughton .
[ Feb. 24 time in the same ; but , so far as I know , no one has written down these inequalities in a mathematical form , or calculated nume .
rically the effects upon climate they are capable of producing .
I attempt to do so in the present note .
The temperature of any place any time depends upon sun-heat and terrestrial radiation , and involves the solution of the following ( lifferential equation : \mdash ; ( 1 ) , temperature of place in Fahrenheit degrees , solar constant , known function of the sun 's zenith distance , distance of earth from sun , local atmospheric constant depending on latitude and local conditions , nother local atmospheric constant depending on latitude and local conditions .
When the absorption of sun-heat by the atmosphere is neglected and the first term of the equation can be integrated for one day in terms of , and afterwards summed for all latitudes , for one year ; but when we take account of the absorption of sun-heat by the atmosphere , becomes an exponential function of , that cannot be inte- , even by series .
It has been shown , however , that , whether we take account of the atmospheric absorption or not , the quantity of sun-h.eat represented by taken for the whole summer is the , at similar latitudes , in the northern and southern hemispheres ; and , in like manner , the winter sun-heats are the samo in the two hemispheres , whatever may be the perihelion longitude and bricity of the 's orbit .
This being so , the secular inequalities of climate under discussion , must arise from the second term of equation ( 1 ) , depending on terresirial adiation , and uItimately on the fact that the summers and winters in the two hemispheres differ in length , that difference depending on the perinelion longitude and eccentricity , as is well known .
Before the second ( or radiation ) tent of equation ( 1 ) , I shall explain my reasons for assuming it to have the form , what that form implies .
1881 .
] Noies on Physical Geology .
The heat received from the sun by the layer of atmosphere next ground is dissipated in the following ways:\mdash ; 1 .
By convection , or ascent of the warmer surface air into the layers of the atmosphere , until it is cooled down to a temperatur such that its direct radiation into space is equal to the heat from the sun and lower layers of the atmosphere at that height in the atmosphere .
2 .
By conduction , or transfer of heat from layer to layer , as solids .
3 .
By direct radiation from the surface layer across the into star-space .
The third of these sources of loss of heat may be neglected , because the atmosphere , which absorbs about one-fourth of the luminous sunheat passing through it vertically , will absorb nearly all non-luminouh and allow only an infinitesimal fraction to escape into star-space .
The first source of loss of heat ( convection ) is much more influential than the second ( conduction ) , but for my preseut purpose it is not necessary to make any distinction between them , for the loss of from both causes will follow the same law and is proportional to the difference of temperature between the layer of the atmosphere and the upper , or equilibrium control layer ; that is , the loss of proportional to .
The radiation is therefore represented by Radiation This expression cannot be summed without assuming some between 9 and , which I do as follows:\mdash ; It is well known that the diurnal temperature does not reach its ximum and minimum at midday and midnight , but some hours after the sun 's passage of the upper and lower meridian ; and it is also well known that hot $ and coldest days of the year do not occur at midsummer and midwinter , but some after .
This law of diurnal and annual of temperature presents close an analogy to the law of the diurnal and annual tides , as to justify us in for its mathematical expression formulae similrir to those of the well-known equations of the diurnal and lnual tidc I therefore assume\mdash ; where mean diurnal temperature , 's hour *As is probably below zero for all latitudes , I shall reckon it positive 1 zero , and positive above zero .
Rev. S. Haughton .
[ Feb. 24 , rating ( for one day , we have\mdash ; Diurnal radiation ( 3 ) .
Again , assuming ( 4 ) , where mean annual temperature , 's longitude .
Summing for the whole year , we find\mdash ; Annual radiation ( 5 ) , but , by the theory of the earth 's motion , we have\mdash ; ( 6 ) , where 's periodic time of revolution , eccentricity of earth 's orbit , true anomaly , earth 's perihelion longitude .
Substituting in ( 5 ) and summing , we find , for the year , Annual radiation ( 7 ) , or , neglecting quantities of the order of the square of the eccentricity , Annual radiation ( 8 ) .
From this equation , we find\mdash ; Secular range of temperature . . . . .
( 9 ) , nual range of temperature .
From this we may calculate the secular range of temperature in the northern and southern hemispheres , with the following results:\mdash ; Notes Physical Northern Hemisphere .
The secular range of mean annual temperature in the southern hemisphere is as follows:\mdash ; Southern Hemisphere .
Prese.ecular Maximum SFRange , As extreme examples of the respecbive types of climate in the northern and southern hemispheres , I may give the result of my lations for North Grinllell Land and ] lsland .
North Grinnell Land cular Kerguelen Island . . . .
*Because the maximum eccentricity of the earth 's orbit is instead of as at present .

