172 Mr. C. E. S. Phillips .
Action of Magnetised Electrodes The Action of Magnetised Electrodes upon Electrical Discharge Phenomena in Rarefied Gases .
Preliminary Note .
" By C. E. S. Phillips .
Communicated by Sir William Ckookes .
Received November 30 , \#151 ; Read December 15 , 1898 .
The experiments herein described were undertaken in order to ascertain what would be the action of strongly magnetised electrodes upon electrical discharge phenomena in rarefied gases , and especially upon the charged residual gas , when all external stimulation had ceased .
For this purpose an apparatus was constructed , as shown in Fig. 1 , consisting of a soda-glass bulb , B , open at both ends for the purpose of inserting the pointed soft iron electrodes , Ex and E2 , and with the leading tube L attached for connection to a Sprengel air pump .
No precaution was taken to keep mercury vapour out of the bulb B during the experiments .
Each electrode had a screw thread of suitable pitch cut upon it , in order that the brass cups Cx and C2 , when screwed into position and sealed with cement to the glass , might serve to keep the electrodes central , to reduce the possibility of their rushing together under the influence of strong magnetic forces , and to seal air-tight the two ends of the bulb .
The poles of a large electro-magnet , M2 , were insulated from the electrodes by means of two thin glass sheets , Gx G2 .
A discharge from the secondary of an induction coil or other suitable source , could then be passed through the bulb , the exhaustion varied and the electrodes magnetised at pleasure .
Results .
A pressure was obtained within the bulb , such that cathode rays began to be freely emitted by the negative electrode , and from the upon Electrical Discharge Phenomena Barefied Gases .
173 screw thread cut upon it there came a helix of rays which gave rise to the appearance of golden-green rings of fluorescence upon the inner surface of the glass vessel B. When the electrodes were magnetised these green rings twisted somewhat and moved forward , the direction of rotation depending upon the polarity of the magnet emitting the rays .
It has already been noticed* that an external magnet , placed behind the negative electrode will cause rotation of the green fluorescence upon the walls of an exhausted tube , and that the direction of motion is opposite to what it would be in the case of a wire placed at right angles to the axis of the magnet , and in which a current flowed away from the pole .
In the above experiment , the rotation was only partial but agreed in direction with the results of other observers .
The bending forward of the rays is evidently dependent upon their partial rotation , because , on reversing the polarity of the magnet emitting them , the direction of their rotation was also reversed , and the bending forward still occurred .
That a positively charged body , moving in a definite direction , sets up magnetic whirls in planes transverse to its path , is generally accepted , the whole effect indeed being treated as a current flowing in the same direction ; and it seems only logical to conclude that were the body negatively charged , its motion would give rise to effects similar to those accompanying a flow of current in the opposite direction .
From this we should expect cathode rays to behave towards a magnet just as would a wire carrying a current in the opposite direction to that in which the charged particles , constituting the rays , are supposed to be moving\#151 ; a view which is borne out by experiment .
The pressure was then still further lowered , until a 3-inch spark from a 10-inch Apps induction coil was only just able to start the glow .
Under these conditions irregular green patches flickered upon the inner surface of the glass ; but when the electrodes were oppositely magnetised these green flecks immediately vanished , and , the resistance of the residual gas within the bulb becoming smaller , a hazy blue cloud formed between the points .
Owing to the ever varying charges upon the inner surface of the bulb and upon the electrodes themselves , it could not be ascertained whether this blue cloud tended to assume a definite geometrical form or not .
It was found , however , that , after a strong stimulation of the bulb had taken place and then been stopped , the electrodes meanwhile remaining unmagnetised , on exciting the magnet , a luminous ring suddenly appeared within the bulb , between the pointed ends of the electrodes , and in a plane at right angles to the direction of the magnetic lines of force .
The ring shone brightly for a moment , when the magnet circuit was # ' Pliil .
Trans , ' 1S79 , Part II , p. 657 .
174 Mr. C. E. S. Phillips .
Action of Magnetised Electrodes " made , " and it was more sharply defined at high exhaustions : becoming in fact hazy and indefinite , if the pressure within the bulb was slightly increased .
On the other hand the rarefaction must not be carried too far , for it is necessary , in order to obtain this luminous effect , that the residual gas within the bulb should be very generally stimulated by the passage of the discharge .
The following combinations were then tried :\#151 ; After stimulation , both the leading wires attached to the electrodes were removed from the secondary of the induction coil , and ( a ) insulated , ( b ) joined together and insulated , ( c ) joined together and connected to earth , ( d ) one insulated and the other connected to earth .
In all these cases the ring formed equally well when the pointed ends of the electrodes were oppositely magnetised .
On the other hand , as long as the points were made either both N or both S , no ring could be obtained .
In another experiment , after the exhaustion had been carried somewhat further and the bulb strongly stimulated , a second ring flashed out momentarily when the magnet circuit was completed ; it formed concentrically with the smaller and more permanent ring , and appeared to be situated upon the inner surface of the glass bulb .
Observations as to the actual mode of formation of what I venture to call the primary ring , i.e. , the smaller one of the two , could at this stage of exhaustion be conveniently made .
It appeared to eiAanate originally as a bright stream from between the electrodes , and then to curl rapidly round the magnetic axis , that portion most distant from the electrodes gaining upon the rest , ultimately disengaging the tail of the stream from between the points , and thus forming an equatorial circle of light within the bulb .
The ring then spread out and became somewhat wider and less well defined , and as it gradually died away the glow seemed to be rotating more and more slowly until at last it flickered and vanished .
It appears , in fact , that this luminous ring spins between the electrodes from the moment it forms under the action of the magnet , the high initial velocity with which , in that case , it must be set in motion tending to keep it rotating , even after the magnetic lines have reached a maximum .
The gradual expansion of the ring , which begins to take place immediately it has formed , may , according to this view , be due partly to ' centrifugal force , and also partly to the attraction exerted by an electrostatic charge residing upon the inner surface of the glass walls of the bulb .
It is significant , too , that when the ring had all but disappeared , the sudden turning off of the magnet slightly revived the luminosity .
At the instant the ring formed , the glass walls of the bulb became charged so strongly that a spark could , in some cases , be seen to pass between the outer surface of the glass and the brass cups , C15 C2 , attached respectively to either electrode .
It should be noticed that the ring is upon Electrical Discharge Phenomena in Rarefied Gases .
175 generally very sensitive to variations in the charge upon the glass walls , and that touching the bulb at various places with the fingers produces vigorous movements of the glow within .
In a bulb , the diameter of which was about 3 inches , the ring threaded itself on to either of the electrodes Ex or E2 , when the centre of the bulb was electrically connected to the cups C2 and Cx respectively .
When only one electrode was magnetised , after the bulb had been stimulated , the rotation of the glow was more easily seen owing to the formation around the magnetised electrode of a wide , spiral-shaped , luminous cloud which was apparently rotating as it became more and more dim , and it was then noticed that the direction of rotation could be reversed by reversing the polarity of the magnetised electrode .
No change in the effect was observed when the connections to the bulb were reversed .
The form of the electrodes was next varied , but the effects produced were mainly the same .
With a pointed cathode and a concave anode the ring formed as usual , but it was observed that , whenever these relations were reversed , no ring could be obtained .
Indeed , having first of all stimulated the bulb with the concave electrode negative , it was not only impossible to obtain a ring on magnetising the electrodes , but even when the connections were reversed still no ring would form until after repeated or prolonged stimulation of the bulb .
Neither did a ring form when the electrodes were magnetised so that like poles faced each other\#151 ; a similar result to that already observed with pointed electrodes .
It may be worth recording that when pointed electrodes were employed , the ring formed equally well , whether the bulb was stimulated by means of a Tesla oscillator , an induction coil , or a Wimshurst influence machine .
Fig. 2 .
Finally , experiments were made with external magnetised electrodes , the exhausted bulb being shaped as shown in fig. 2 .
In this case of course , the discharge was oscillatory , and consequently the effects were not very directly comparable to those already described .
At a low pressure , however , and when the bulb was filled with a 176 Messrs. Boyce and Warrington .
Anatomy and green glow , on disconnecting the induction coil and magnetising the electrodes , a flash of white light was observed within the tube , and irregular green splashes momentarily made their appearance upon the glass .
In conclusion , I desire to offer my thanks to Dr. Silvanus P. Thompson , F.R.S. , for kindly permitting me to use the Tesla apparatus at his laboratory , and for the interest he has taken in the progress of these experiments .
" Observations on the Anatomy , Physiology , and Degenerations of the Nervous System of the Bird .
" By B. Boyce and W. B. Warrington .
Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. Received December 7 , \#151 ; Read December 15 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) In this research the modern methods of investigating the course of tracts and their degeneration in the central nervous system have been used .
The previous literature of the subject is scanty .
Bumm first gave an account of the various tracts in the brain , and the histological side has been and is still being worked out by Brandis .
Valuable information is given by Edinger in his \#163 ; Vorlesungen , ' and quite recently the Marchi method has been used and the results obtained described by Wiener and Miinzer , Wallenberg and Fried-lander .
The anatomy has been studied by sections made in the three planes and stained by the Weigert and Nissl methods , and by observing the course of the degenerated fibres following various lesions , staining by Marchi 's fluid .
In the brain of the Bird the cortex of higher animals is represented by a thin pallial sheet of grey matter , forming the mesial and dorsal boundary of the narrow ventricle , and gradually losing itself on the lateral aspect of the hemisphere .
Its substance is composed of oval , rather large cells , grouped into clusters , and it contains the fibres of an important tract , called by Edinger the Tr. septomesencephalicus , and by us alluded to as the pallial tract .
The hemispheres themselves correspond to basal ganglia ; posteriorly they expand laterally into the large occipital lobes .
Their substance contains cells resembling those found in the pallium , and which cannot be differentiated distinctly into definite regions .
The hemispheres are connected with the thalamus by a constriction of their substance , forming an isthmus on either side , from which the thalamus in transverse section is seen suspended as a triangular shaped body .

