On the Figure requisite to maintain the Equilibrium of a Homogeneous Fluid Mass that revolves upon an Axis .
By James Ivory , A.M. F.R.S. Read December 18 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 85 .
] The author enumerates the various steps by which Sir Isaac Newton , McLaurin , and Laplace have carried the theory of the equilibrium of a revolving fluid very near to perfection , but he observes that they have generally supposed the spheroid to differ but little from a sphere ; and he proceeds in the present paper to investigate the figure " by a direct analysis , in which no arbitrary supposition is admitted .
" Mr. Ivory thinks it necessary to distinguish carefully two separate cases ; the first is when the particles of the fluid do not attract one another , and the second when the particles are endued with attractive powers .
These , he says , are plainly two cases that are essentially different from one another ; for in the first , a stratum added induces no other change than an increase of pressure caused by the action of the accelerating forces at the surface ; but in the second , besides the pressure , a new force is introduced , arising from the mutual attraction between the matter of the stratum and the fluid mass to which it is added .
Mr. Ivory gives two different methods of investigating the fundamental laws of this equilibrium , the one which is the newest and most simple being contained in two propositions .
First , If a homogeneous fluid body revolving about an axis be in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles , any other mass of the same fluid having a similar figure , and revolving in the same time about an axis similarly placed , will likewise be in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles .
The proof is easily deduced from the well known properties of an attraction inversely proportioned to the square of the distance .
Secondly , If a homogeneous fluid mass revolve about an axis , and be in equilibrio by the attraction of its particles , all the level surfaces will be similar to the outer surface ; and any stratum of the fluid contained between two level surfaces will attract particles in the in .

