II .
" On the Atomic Weight of Graphite .
" By BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Esq. , F.R.S. , Pres. C.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
Received May 5 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author arrives at the following results:-That carbon in the form of graphite forms a system of peculiar compounds , different from any compounds of carbon yet known , and capable of being procured only from graphite .
That graphite , within certain limits , functions as a distinct element , capable indeed of being converted by certain processes of oxidation into carbonic acid and thus identified with the other forms of carbon , but having a distinct atomic weight , namely 33 ( 11=1 ) .
After the detail of certain experiments by which the author was led to believe in the existence of a distinct system of compounds of graphite , an account is given of a peculiar crystalline substance formed by the prolonged oxidation of graphite .
This substance consists of transparent plates of a pale yellow colour , which exhibit under the microscope an appearance distinctly crystalline .
The analysis of this substance gave for its formula C1 , H140 , ( C= 12 , 0-16 ) .
From the ratio of the hydrogen to the oxygen in this substance , from the circumstance that it is procured from graphite alone , and from its general physical properties , it is inferred that this substance is the term in the system of graphite which corresponds to the compound of silicon , oxygeln and hydrogen , in the system of silicon , procured by Wdhler from the graphitoidal form of that element , and to which Wdhler has assigned the formula Si4 , 405 ( Si=21 ) .
If it be assumed that this conclusioni is correct , the further inference is that the bodies are similarly constituted .
On this hypothesis , to arrive at the atomic weight of graphite , the total weight of carbon , 132 , is to be divided by 4 , which gives the number 33 ; and for the formtula of the body , putting Gr=33 , we have Gr4 H4 05 .
This conclusion is confirmed in a remarkable marnner by the specific heat of graphite .
The specific heat of the elemental bodies varies inversely with their atomic weight .
This law is so well established , that Regnault has even proposed to determine the atomic weight by it exclusively .
There are , at any rate , only two numbers which can be assigned as the product of the specific heat into the atomic weight of the elemental bodies , namely , approximately the numbers 3-3 and 6-6 .
But to this law there is one singular exception .
Carbon in all its forms is anomalous .
The specific heats of diamond , graphite , and wood-charcoal are each different , and taking the atomic weight of carbon as 6 or 12 , no one is accordant with the law .
The specific heat of graphite is 0'20187 .
Now , taking the atomic weight of graphite as 33 , we have 33 X201 =6 63 , a result in accordance with the law .
The inference is , that the assertion that 33 is the atomic weight of graphite is not only a convenient expression of chemical analysis , but corresponds to a physical fact .

