A paper was also read , entitled , &lt; f An Investigation of the Laws which govern the Motion of Steam-Vessels , deduced from experiment .
" Bv P. W. Barlow , Esq. Civil Engineer .
Communicated by Dr. Roget , Sec. R.S. The author commences with the description of a paddle-wheel for steam-vessels , of a new construction , in which the floats are made to enter and leave the water nearly in a vertical position .
He then investigates several formulae adapted to the calculation of the forces and velocities arising from this form of the apparatus ; and gives an account of the results of various experiments made on its efficiency as compared with the common wheels , and with relation to the con ?
sumption of fuel , The general results to which he is led are as follow : ?
lst .
When vessels are so laden as that the wheel is but slightly immersed , little advantage is derived from the vertically acting paddles .
2ndly .
In cases of deep immersiou , the latter has considerable advantage over the wheel of the usual construction .
3rdly .
In the common wheel , while the paddle passes through the lower portion of the are , that is when its position is vertical , it not only affords less resistance to the engine , but is less effective in propelling the vessel than in any part of its revolution .
4thlv .
The paddle of the wheel , while passing through the lower portion of the are , affords more resistance to the engine , and is more effective in propelling the vessel , than in any part of its revolution ; a property which is a serious deduction from its value ; for , in consequence of the total resistance to all the paddles being so much less than in the common wheel , much greater velocity is required to obtain the requisite pressure , and a greater expenditure of steam power is incurred .
This loss of power is most sensible when the wheel is slightly immersed ; but in cases of deep immersion the vertical paddle has greatly the advantage .
5thly .
In any wheel , the larger the paddles the less is the loss of force ; because the velocity of the wheel is not required to exceed that of the vessel in so great a degree , in order to acquire the resistance necessary to propel the vessel .
6thly .
With the same boat and the same wheel no advantage is gained by reducing the paddle so as to bring out the full power of the engine ; the effect produced being simply that of increasing the speed of the wheel , and not that of the ves ?
sel .
7thly .
An increase of speed will be obtained by reducing the diameter of the wheel ; at least within such limits as allow of the floats remaining sufficiently immersed in the water ; and provided the velocity of the engine does not exceed that at which it can perform its work properly .
Sthly .
An advantage would be gained by giving to the wheel a larger diameter , as far as the immersion of the paddles Droduced by loading the vessel would not so sensibly affect the angle of inclination of the paddle ; but this advantage cannot be obtained with an engine of the same length of stroke , because in order to allow the engine to make its full number ofstrokes , it will then be necessary to diminish the size of the paddles , which is a much greater evil than having a wheel of smaller diameter with larger paddles .
The reading of a paper was then commenced , entitled , * " ' On the Equilibrium of a Mass of Homogeneous Fluid at liberty .
" By James Ivory , Esq. , K.H. , M.A. , F.R.S.

