301 Transparent Silver and other Metallic By Professor Thomas Turner , M.Sc .
, University of Birmingham .
( Communicated by Professor J. H. Pointing , F.R.S. Received May 9 , \#151 ; Read May 28 , 1908 .
) [ Plate 1 .
] It is well known that when thin leaves of gold or silver are mounted upon glass and heated to a temperature which is well below a red heat , a remarkable change of properties takes place , whereby the continuity of the metallic film is destroyed .
The result is that white light is now freely transmitted , reflection is correspondingly diminished , while the electric resistivity is enormously increased .
A simple method of illustrating this extraordinary change is to mount a .sheet of silver leaf between two clean lantern plates , clip them lightly together by means of wire paper fasteners or other suitable means , and then heat gradually to a temperature of not more than 500 ' C. This can be done conveniently by placing the plates on a thin fire-brick in a cold gas muffle , and then raising the temperature to the desired point .
The gas should nowT be turned off , and the glass plates allowed to cool slowly , so as to avoid cracking .
They can then be bound with strips like an ordinary lantern plate , and a permanent example of transparent silver is obtained .
It will be found that such a plate transmits the light of the electric lantern almost as readily as ordinary glass , and does not produce any change of colour .
The great transparency of the film may be shown by placing the plate upon printing or writing , and photographing the characters through the plate .
Every detail of the characters can be reproduced with remarkable clearness .
At first sight it is perhaps difficult to conceive that so distinct an impression could be -obtained through what was originally a perfectly opaque sheet of silver , and which has only been once heated to a moderate temperature .
The properties of thin metallic films have already been studied by a number of observers and from several points of view .
Thus Faraday , in his classical Bakerian Lecture , * dealt with finely-divided metals in connection with the undulatory theory of light .
G. T. Beil by , starting from Faraday 's observations , studied the properties of annealed gold leaf , f and afterwards showed the bearing of such facts on the hard and soft states of metals , t while * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1857 , p. 145 .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1903 , p. 226 .
* * PhiL Mag. , ' 1904 , vol. 8 , p. 258 .
VOL. LXXXI.\#151 ; A. X Prof. T. Turner .
[ May 9 , Garnett has given at length the mathematical considerations arising out of the work of Faraday and Beilby.* Films of other metals have received attention , as in the work of Wood , f who deals with alkali metal films produced in vacuo , and Stone , J who describes the formation and properties of thin films of platinum .
Another branch of the subject is that of finely-divided metals in solution or suspension ; on this there is a voluminous literature .
In connection with a closely-allied branch of the subject , it may be recalled that Sir H. Davy , in 1813 , showed that the colours produced during the tempering of steel were due to oxidation , S while the author proved that the colours so obtained depend upon both time and temperature .
It was also further suggested that the film of oxide so produced was transparent.il Transparent Gold.\#151 ; In Faraday 's experiments the gold leaf was usually mounted on a single sheet of glass .
The alloy was 924 parts gold , 24 parts silver , and 12 parts copper ; it was beaten so that 278,000 sheets would be required to make a thickness of 1 inch .
In this state it transmitted green light ; but it lost its green colour , and transmitted white light when heated in a bath of oil for a few hours to as high a temperature as the oil would bear .
The same result was obtained though the supporting material was changed and the surroundiug medium replaced by air or by ; carbon dioxide .
It was also found that gold leaf , rendered colourless by heating in a muffle , again transmitted green light after being burnished .
In tests conducted by Mr. Dixon under the direction of the author , the gold leaf employed was 975 fine , and its thickness , as determined by weighing , was such as would require 303,000 sheets to make 1 inch .
It was mounted between two microscopic slide glasses , and heated in a glass tube surrounded by an outer iron tube .
The temperatures were determined by placing a thermo-electric couple in contact with the upper surface of the glass slide .
Under these conditions it was found that gold leaf may be kept at a temperature of 500 ' C. for half an hour or more without undergoing any appreciable change other than that of annealing , which is an entirely different effect , and which , as observed by Beilby , occurs at about 275'.1 At 550 ' the green colour begins to fade in a few minutes in air , and still more rapidly in hydrogen .
The nature of the change which occurs in the case of gold is made evident * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1904 , p. 385 .
t * Phil. Mag. , ' 1902 , vol. 3 , p. 397 .
f ' Phys. Review , 'July , 1905 .
S 'Thomson 's Annals , ' vol. 1 , p. 131 .
II 'Phil .
Soc. Birm .
Proc. , ' vol. 6 ( 1889 ) , part 2 , p. 296 .
IF ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1907 , vol. 79 , p. 467 .
1908 .
] Transparent Silver and other Metallic Films .
303 by the microphotograph , fig. 1 .
In annealed gold leaf the structure is , as shown by Beilby , a crystalline network filled in with translucent amorphous metal .
But the microphotograph of gold leaf , heated to 550 ' , shows noncrystalline dark parts where the gold has aggregated and white clear parts of plain glass .
The gold itself is therefore opaque , instead of being translucent , and the white light passes through the intermediate clear spaces .
In the case of a soft gold cornet from " parting , " the change on heating appears to be a gradual one , and not to present any breaks or sudden changes .
Even at 100 ' the cornet shrinks and hardens somewhat , and this change increases up to 750 ' , by which point the metal has acquired a brilliant yellow lustre and a distinct granular structure when viewed under the microscope .
No change has been observed in a cornet at about 550 ' which corresponds to the marked alteration which occurs in gold leaf at this temperature .
Transparent Silver.\#151 ; Faraday 's observations with gold appear to have led him , and subsequent observers , to conclude that the change which takes place when silver is heated would be equally independent of the nature of the surrounding atmosphere .
The nature of the gas in which silver is heated has , however , a profound influence on the result , and of this it is now proposed to furnish experimental evidence .
Perhaps the simplest method of procedure is to introduce a sheet of silver foil into a dry test-tube , and to heat the tube till the glass just begins to soften .
It will then be found that the silver leaf has shrunk considerably in size ; that it has become white and frosted in appearance , thus losing much of its metallic lustre ; and that it is now sufficiently transparent to allow of objects being readily seen through its texture .
It will also be noted that the change is not confined to any one part of the metal , but that it takes place just as readily away from as near to the glass .
But if the experiment be repeated with a tube which is filled with coal gas or with hydrogen , it will be seen that the silver retains its metallic lustre and opacity , and only decreases slightly in bulk .
Starting from this simple observation , experiments have been made with the object of determining the temperature at which this remarkable change occurs and the conditions under which it takes place .
The silver leaf used in these experiments was the purest commercially obtainable .
It was found by cupellation assay to be 995T fine ; and when it was dissolved in nitric acid , and precipitated by hydrochloric acid , the solution gave but the faintest discoloration when tested with sulphuretted hydrogen or ammonium sulphide .
Subsequent experiments appear to indicate that the only impurity present in appreciable quantity was a trace x 2 Prof. T. Turner .
[ May 9 , of oily matter from the process of beating .
Its thickness , as determined byi weighing , was such as would require 120,000 sheets to make an inch .
In preliminary tests to determine the temperature at which the change from the opaque to the transparent state took place in air , sheets 4\#163 ; inches square !
were heated in a muffle .
But in subsequent experiments , to ensure greater !
accuracy , the silver leaf was mounted between two ordinary microscope !
slides of glass 3 inches by 1 inch .
In mounting silver thus between two !
sheets of glass , special difficulty is met with if the glass surfaces are perfectly !
smooth and true .
The slightest sliding of one glass over the other during 3 mounting is then apt to produce innumerable cracks or fissures in the metal , \lt ; There is also the disadvantage that the air or other gas employed can only ] diffuse with extreme slowness .
It is easier to work with at least one of the = slides of commoner glass , or , otherwise , after placing the silver on the lower ] side to sprinkle upon it a minute quantity of powdered glass , which has been previously passed through the 100 sieve .
An air-space of something under ; one-hundredth of an inch in thickness is thus ensured , and experience has ; i proved this to be ample .
The samples so mounted were then placed inside a small open cast-iron box , and were supported to allow of the introduction of a thermo-couple under the specimen and above , but near to the bottom of the box .
The box was then placed in a cold muffle , and the temperature raised to the desired point , when the sample was removed and allowed to cool at once to the temperature of the air .
One important incidental advantage in the use of microscope slide glasses is that the danger of cracking during heating and cooling is very slight , while with the larger glass plates disappointment from fracture during .
cooling is not unusual .
In these experiments no change was observed in the properties of the silver at temperatures below 200 ' C , but at 240 ' transparency commenced , and this was practically complete at about 390 ' .
The change is a gradual one , and depends upon both time and temperature .
A sample heated to 400 ' as rapidly as is safe on a glass slide , or , say , in about 10 minutes , is then quite transparent .
To render this gradual change apparent , a series , of samples was arranged , and these were laid upon sensitised photographic plates .
They were all exposed to the same standard light , and developed in exactly the same manner .
A few of the results are given in fig. 2 , from which it will be seen that some light began to pass after the sample had been heated to 240 ' transparency increased at 260 ' ; became marked at 335 ' ; and was practically complete at 390 ' .
In each case the temperature employed was written in ink on the back of the glass slide , and the clearness with which these figures s can be read is a simple measure of the relative transparency .
1908 .
] Transparent Silver and other Metallic Films .
305 Silver remains quite opaque , if heated in coal gas to about the same temperature as would render the metal quite transparent if heated in air ; and , even at 500 ' , no change is observed in an atmosphere of coal gas .
Silver which has been made transparent by heating in air does not become opaque if heated in coal gas to 510 ' , though it is very slightly darkened in colour , and a transparent yellow stain is produced on parts of the glass .
Very little effect is produced when silver is heated in charcoal powder for half an hour at 500 ' , while the metal may be heated in hydrogen to 400 ' without Sensible alteration .
The structure of transparent silver , when viewed under the microscope , is seen in fig. 3 , which shows the appearance of silver leaf heated between glass slides for a few minutes to 390 ' .
In this case the change has progressed to such an extent that it is practically complete .
The magnification is the same as was employed for the specimens of gold , and on comparison it will be noted that the aggregations in the case of silver are much smaller than with gold , and the opacity of these separate particles is much less marked .
In another series of experiments , silver leaves were heated in a porcelain boat in a combustion tube , in an atmosphere of oxygen which had been previously passed through potash and strong sulphuric acid .
It was found that the silver became transparent at about the same temperature , and at least as readily as when heated in air .
When still higher temperatures were employed , it was found that leaves of silver , if rolled up into small balls and heated in hydrogen to 750 ' , shrunk in size , and resembled in texture annealed cornets from gold assaying , the opacity and lustre being retained .
But when heated in air to 750 ' the leaves crumbled down to a nearly white powder which occupied much less space than in the previous experiment .
It would therefore appear that oxygen is necessary for the production of this remarkable change ; that the nitrogen of the atmosphere plays no part in the action ; and that the nature of the supporting material may be changed without affecting the result .
When transparent silver is examined under the microscope , with moderately high magnification , it is found to have a somewhat arborescent form , and the separate granular masses appear to have some measure of transparency when viewed by transmitted light .
This fact , together with what has been above stated , appeared to point to the formation of an oxide of silver which is transparent .
Gravimetric experiments were therefore conducted in which carefully weighed quantities of silver leaf were heated in air or oxygen for various times and to gradually increasing temperatures .
The conclusions arrived at were entirely negative .
The weight taken was usually about 0T25 gramme ; sometimes a very slight loss was observed , followed by a Prof. T. Turner .
[ May 9 , slight gain .
But the maximum loss was never more than 1 milligramme , and the maximum gain was also never more than a milligramme .
As the leaves were contained in a weighed porcelain boat , the differences observed were not much in excess of the experimental error , and the maximum gain in weight was not more than one-tenth of what would be required for the formation of silver oxide ( OAg2 ) .
Evidence that at least much of the silver is still in the metallic state is afforded by the fact that with careful burnishing the lustre and opacity are restored over parts of the glass , while the white powder evolves copious brown fumes when treated with nitric acid .
The method of experimenting was now changed , and four leaves of silver weighing about 0T25 gramme were placed in a glass tube and heated , vacuo , to 500 ' , and kept at that temperature for 10 minutes .
The metal , on cooling , was unchanged in appearance and bulk .
There was , in this case , a very slight depression of not more than 3 mm. observed on the gauge of the Sprengel pump , and a slight sublimate was obtained .
Under the microscope this was seen to consist of minute oily globules , due apparently to a trace of fatty matter from the goldbeater 's skin .
As the metal was unchanged when heated vacuo , oxygen was admitted to a pressure of 1/ 5 of an atmosphere , this corresponding with the amount of oxygen present in air .
The metal was heated to 400 ' and maintained at this temperature for five minutes .
On cooling it was found to be completely changed into a white more or less powdery material of much diminished bulk .
The change took place in a similar manner when the pressure of oxygen was reduced to 1/ 25 of an atmosphere ; and also , though perhaps with less readiness and completeness , when the pressure of oxygen was only 15 mm. In each case the height of the mercury gauge was observed at the beginning of the experiment , and also at the end when the tube had again cooled down , and in no case was any appreciable alteration noticed in the volume of the oxygen .
Whatever the exact nature of the change which takes place may be it is evident that though oxygen is necessary the metal does not increase in weight or the oxygen change in volume .
In seeking for an explanation of an action of oxygen on silver , which does not lead to an increase of weight , reference may be made to some experiments of Plattner mentioned by Dr. Percy , * in which it was found that finely divided silver when heated to moderate redness in a stream of oxygen yielded a sublimate of metallic silver ; it was also shown that oxide of silver is decomposed if heated in oxygen .
Dr. Percy carefully repeated Plattner 's experiments , but with negative results , so far as a sublimate of silver is * 4 Gold and Silver/ p. 18 .
1908 .
] Transparent Silver and other Metallic Films .
307 concerned .
Probably in the absence of temperature measurements the conditions were not identical , as there is evidence of the volatility of silver at relatively low temperatures .
Thus Professor Richards* states that silver shows signs of vaporisation when heated vacuo in quartz vessels to 680 ' C. In the author 's experiments on a number of occasions a minute sublimate was obtained when silver was heated in a combustion tube in a current of air or oxygen to somewhat above the point at which transparency is practically complete .
This sublimate had every appearance of being white metallic crystals when viewed under the microscope , and a photograph of such a mirror at a magnification of about 120 diameters is given in fig. 4 .
It appears probable , therefore , that at temperatures ranging from about 240 ' to 400 ' C. very finely divided silver combines with oxygen , but that the oxide so produced is again decomposed , the result being the production of metallic silver in a peculiar amorphous condition , in which it is transparent in moderate thicknesses .
At the same time , there is sometimes a very minute , though appreciable , volatilisation of the metal , especially when it is heated to about 700 ' in a current of air .
[ Added July 16.\#151 ; It may be added that transparency can only be produced with thin sheets of silver .
The thinnest sheets obtained by rolling are about 1/ 2000 to 1/ 3000 inch in thickness .
Tests made with sheets of silver about 1/ 2300 and 1/ 2800 inch in thickness have shown that no transparency is observed even after heating in air or oxygen to 500 ' for 24 hours .
By beating such sheets , leaves of about 1/ 10000 inch in thickness are obtained ; but these , too , show no transparency on heating .
Assuming the action to take place equally on each side of the leaf , it follows , therefore , that it does not penetrate to a depth of 1 / 20000 inch .
In other words , it has been proved to occur , in the earlier experiments , through a thickness of about 4/ 1000000 inch ; it has also been shown not to take place through 50/ 1000000 inch .
The intermediate thicknesses have yet to be examined .
] Transparent Copper.\#151 ; The examination of the effect of varying temperatures under different conditions upon other metals , in the form of thin leaf , was a natural result of the preceding observations .
The first metal taken for this purpose was copper , which was obtained of a thickness of about 1/ 75000 inch .
The metal was practically pure , as on analysis no trace of other metals could be observed in the necessarily moderate weights employed ; tested volumetrically against electrolytic copper it decolorised exactly the correct volume of standard solution of potassium cyanide .
This copper leaf when heated between glass slides in coal gas , in hydrogen , or * 4 Electro-Chem .
and Metal .
, ' 1908 , p. 115 .
Prof. T. Turner .
[ May 9 " when embedded in fresh charcoal powder , retained its metallic lustre and opacity unimpaired .
But when heated in air it gradually assumed the well-known succession of colours , including orange , red , purple , blue , and green .
These colours repeated themselves in order several times , each time becoming less separate and distinct .
On examining the specimen by transmitted light , as by holding it up by daylight to a window , it was found that in parts a remarkable transparency had been obtained .
The first effect is the production of an emerald green colour of great transparency and brilliancy with further heating this passes into a light olive , then into a darker shade , and ultimately into a dark port wine colour .
It is easy to obtain the whole of these transparent colours by heating the sample somewhat rapidly , when the coloured films will form round the outside of the sheet , while in the middle of the plate will be left a small island of untarnished copper .
If the sample be now rapidly cooled and examined , it will be found that a brilliant transparent green band surrounds the unaltered metal , while the other shades tone off to a dark reddish transparent brown at the edges .
A simple method of studying the nature of the change is to take a glass beaker about 6 inches high , and suspend vertically in the centre of this a leaf of copper between two glass slides .
This will leave about 1| inches clear at the top and bottom .
The beaker should be covered with a sheet of asbestos board , and surrounded with a thin sheet of asbestos , except for two holes , one on either side , to act as windows .
On heating the beaker from below with a bunsen burner a temperature of about 185 ' should be obtained in the centre of the beaker ; the top of the slides will then be at about 160 ' and the bottom at about 215 ' .
On maintaining the heat for about an hour it will be found that the lower half of the copper is now quite transparent , and transmits a light green or olive colour , while the upper part is almost unaffected and opaque .
In the middle of the slide the opaque gradually passes into the transparent form .
The effect produced when copper is heated in air or oxygen depends both upon time and temperature .
Below about 160 ' the effect is very slight ; above 400 ' it is so rapid as to be scarcely under control .
By careful heating between 200 ' and 250 ' any desired shade of surface coloration , or of transparency , may be obtained by suitably adjusting the time of exposure .
The action in the case of copper appears to be quite different from that of silver .
Both metals retain their lustre and opacity when heated in hydrogen , in coal gas , or in fresh charcoal powder .
But when copper is heated in air there is a gradual increase of weight from the beginning of the action , and ultimately the weight of oxygen absorbed corresponds with that necessary to form the black oxide ( CuO ) .
This oxide , though very dark in colour , Turner .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , A. 81 , Plate 1 .
Fig. 2 ( 1).\#151 ; Silver heated in air to 240 ' C. Fig. 2 ( 2).\#151 ; Silver heated in air to 260''C .
Fig. 2 ( 3).\#151 ; Silver heated in air to 335 ' C. Fig. 2 ( 4).\#151 ; Silver heated in air to 390 ' C. Fig. 2 ( 5).\#151 ; Silver made transparent and reheated in coal gas to 510 ' C. Fig. 3.\#151 ; Transparent silver .
200 V. ( Transmitted light .
) Fig. 2 ( 6).\#151 ; Silver heated in charcoal powder .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Sublimate from heating silver in air .
( Mag. 120 diameters .
) 1908 .
] Transparent Silver and other Metallic Films .
309 transmits a deep olive colour when in sufficiently thin plates .
The transparency of the copper is more marked during the early stages of the absorption of oxygen .
When copper which has thus been made transparent is heated in coal gas or hydrogen , it becomes once more opaque and recovers its metallic lustre ; but the metal is full of minute cracks through which some white light passes and its reflecting power is considerably impaired .
That the transparent film obtained on heating copper leaf in air still contains metallic copper can be proved in a very simple manner , namely , by the action of dilute nitric or sulphuric acid ( 5 to 10 per cent. ) upon the transparent coloured material .
The acid causes the immediate separation of bright lustrous metallic copper .
At the same time the yellow colour disappears from the film while the copper itself transmits white light .
Aluminium.\#151 ; The thinnest sheet of aluminium which is commercially available is about 1 / 60000 inch in thickness , as determined by weighing several leaves .
This may be heated between glass slides in air to any temperature up to 500 ' without showing any appreciable diminution of its opacity , and the surface oxidation is apparently slight , even at the higher limit , during one hour .
Dutch Metal.\#151 ; Leaves of Dutch metal , of a thickness of 1/ 37000 inch , were heated to various temperatures , and for different periods in air between glass slides .
Very beautiful surface colorations can be thus obtained , but no transparency was observed .
With the higher temperatures , however , a certain amount of " skeletonizing , " due to the formation of cracks , was usually developed .
From this result it is probable that zinc , like aluminium , does not become transparent when heated in oxygen .
Sulphides.\#151 ; As sulphur produces coloured films on metals , it appeared probable that transparent intermediate products would be obtained by the action of sulphuretted hydrogen in sheet metals .
Preliminary experiments in this direction have as yet yielded only negative results .
Cause of Surface Colorations of Metals.\#151 ; The discovery of a transparent stage in the oxidation of copper affords strong support of the view that in all cases where a metal oxidises or tarnishes in such a manner as to produce spectrum colours , this is due to the formation of a transparent film .
Gold and silver do not really become transparent , but only aggregate in such , a manner as to permit of the passage of light between the heaped tip particles ; hence there is no surface coloured film .
Aluminium and zinc remain opaque ; hence again there can be no surface colorations as these metals oxidise .
Copper , and , presumably , iron , yield transparent bodies during their oxidation , and hence produce films which are capable of giving the colours of the spectrum .
\#166 ; 310 Mr. E. Cunningham .
[ May 29 , The author has pleasure in acknowledging his indebtedness to Dr. T. J. Baker for information from which this research originated ; to Mr. O. F. Hudson for the preparation of the micro-photographs ; and to Mr. J. L. Dixon , Bowen Research Scholar in the Metallurgical Department of the University of Birmingham , for the care with which he has repeated and extended many of the earlier observations .
The a-Functions , a Class of- Normal Functions occurring in Statistics .
By E. Cunningham , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge , Lecturer in Applied Mathematics , University College , London .
( Communicated by Professor Karl Pearson , F.K.S. Received May 29 , \#151 ; Read June 25 , 1908 .
) I.\#151 ; Introductory .
The present paper originated in an attempt to discover the significance of certain functions developed by Professor Karl Pearson in a memoir entitled " A Mathematical Theory of Random Migration , " and by him called co-functions .
They belong to the category of normal functions , and are applied in the memoir named to obtain an expansion to represent a distriBu-tion symmetrical about a point in a plane .
The distribution is not fixed but depends on a parameter a , the function being a function of \#151 ; r being the distance from the centre of the distribution .
The fundamental differential equation is { d2/ dx2 + { x + x~l ) d 2 1 ) } = 0 .
In the course of the present investigation it soon appeared that the same function led to solutions of the equation of conduction of heat in two dimensions for the case of symmetry round the origin , the time t taking the place of o-2 .
In fact , it was found that if a solution of that equation is sought in the form f{t ) ( f\gt ; ( r2/ t ) , that solution is t~ ( n+1 ) ( r2/ R ) , being arbitrary .
The function w2n is equal to e~r2/ 4\lt ; multiplied by a polynomial , and is therefore especially adapted to the solution of the problem of the cooling of an infinite sheet , the temperature at a great distance being always zero .
The next step in the paper is to generalise the co-functions ; and all the solutions of the equation sj2u = du/ dt are found which are of the form f ( t)cf ) ( r2/ 1 ) \#169 ; , where \#169 ; is a function of the angular co-ordinates of the point

