XXII .
'Hints on She Subject of animal Secretions .
By Everard Home , Esq. F. R. S. Communicated by the Society for the Improvement of A , niimal " Chemistry .
Read June 22 , 1809 .
iHf brilliant discovenies of : M. DAvY -on the powers of electricity in producing chemical changes , suggested to me the Dr. WOLLASTON s observations inserted in the Philosophical Magazine , were published after this paper had been laid before the Society .
i was led ' to the present investigation , while preparing 'my lectures on .
th Hunterian Museum , in which the secretions in different animals are to be considered .
In September last , I engaged Mr. WILLIAM BRAND to assist me in prosecuting the inquiry .
In November , I communicated my opinions to Sir JOSE PH BA N KS , and stated that I should bring them forward in my lectures ; at that time Dr. YUN G'S Syllabus Was not published , and Dr. WOLLASTON'S opinions were unknown to me .
Dr. BE RZ ELI us , Professor of Chemistry at Stockholm , published a work on Animal Chemistry , in the year 1806 , ip thb Swedish language , in which he states , in several pjaces ; that he believes the secretions in animals to depend upon the nerves , although he is unable to explain how the effect is produced .
In proof of his opinion , the following experiment is adduced : " Trace all the nerves leading to any secretory organ in a living animal , and divide " them , being careful to injure the blood-vessels and the structure of the organ " c itself , as little as may be : notwithstanding the continued circulation of the blood , , ' the organ will as little secrete its usual fluid , as an eye deprived of its nerve can " see , or a muscle whose nerve has been divided can move .
We may therefore easily conceive , that any trifling alteration in the nerves of a gland , may materially affect , -its secretion , the supply of blood being in every way perfect .
" He says , the agency of the nerves in secretion has generally been disregarded , because our attention is only called to their secret mode of acting , when we discover the insufficiency of all other explanation .
Dr. BERZELIUs 's work was shown to me by Mr. DAVY while this pa !
er was in the press .
idea that the animal secretions may be produced by the same means .
To prosecute this inquiry with every advantage , requires a knowledge of anatomy , physiology , and chemistry , rarely to be met with in the same person .
I have therefore availed myself of the assistance of the different members of this Society , the object of which is the improvement of Animal Chemistry , their intimate acquaintance with these branches of science , renders them peculiarly fitted for such an undertaking .
It is one of the most important subjects to which Mr. DAVY'S discoveries can be applied , and he has given it the consideration it deserves .
The VOLTAIc battery is met with in the torpedo and electrical eel , and although it is given only as a means of catching their prey , and defending themselves , and therefore not immediately applicable to the present inquiry , yet it furnishes two important facts , one , that a VOLTAIC battery can be formed in a living animal , the other , that nerves are essentially necessary for its management ; for in these fish , the nerves connected with the electrical organs , exceed those that go , to all the other parts of the fish , in the proportion of twenty to one .
The nerves are made up of an infinite number of small fibres , a structure so different from that of the electric organ , that they are evidently not fitted to form a VOLTAIC battery of high power ; but their structure appears to Mr. DAVY tO adapt them to receive and preserve a small electrical power .
That the nerves arranged with muscles , so as to form a VOLTAIC battery , have a power of accumulating and communicating electricity , is proved by the well known experiment of taking the two hind legs of a vivaceous frog , immediately after they are cut off , laying bare the crural nerves , applying one of these to the exposed muscles of the other limb , and then when the circle is completed by raising the other crural nerve with a glass rod , and touching the muscle of the limb to which it does not belong , the muscles of both are excited to contractions .
There are several circumstances in the structure of the nerves , and their arrangements in animal ; bodies , which do ; not appear at all applicable to the purposes of commonsensation , and whose uses have not even been devised .
Among these are the plexuses in the branches of the par vagum which go to the lungs , and in the nerves whichlgo to the limbs .
The ganglions , which connect the nerves belonging to the viscerawith those that supply the voluntary muscles , and the course of the nerves of the viscera which ; keep up aconnexion among , themselves in so many different ways .
The organs of secretion are principally made up of arteries and veins ; but there i nothing in:.the different modes in whicIh these vessels ramify , that can inany way !
account for the changes in the blood ; out of which the secretions arise .
These organs are also abundantly supplied.with nerves , With a view to determine how far any changes could be produced in the blood by electricity , at all similar to secretion , Mr. W. BRAND , who has begun his career in animal chemistry with so much success , made the following experiments , in the suggestion of which Mr. DAVY afforded him every assistance , .
387 Experzment 1 .
Middle of January , 1 809 .
The conductors from twenty four four inch double plates of copper and zinc , charged with a very weak solution of muriatic acid , were immersed in four ounces , of blood , immediately on its having been withdrawn from a vein in the .
arm .
The temperature of the blood was kept .
up at 90o during the experiment .
The apparatus was so constructed , as to admit of the products at the negative and positive wires being separately collected and examined .
When the electrization had been carried on for a quarter of an hour , all action seemed to have ceased. .
The blood which had surrounded the negative w'ire , was of a deep red colour and extremely alkaline ; that surrounding the positive wire was slightly acid , and of a brigliter hue .
In this expeiment t coagulation of the blood was not inaterally all cted by the electrical power alluded to .
ELxe ?
tme ?
zt. .
8th of February , 1809 .
Fi-rding it necessary to submit perfectly fluid blood to the action of electricity , the following experiment was undertaken with a view of keeping it the longest possible time in that state .
A deer Iaving been pithed , the abddomen was immediately opened into , and a length of about four inches of a large vein in the meso-colon was detached from the neighbouring parts .
Two small platina wires , connected in the usual way with forty three inch double plates , were inserted into this detached porton of vein , and secured by ligatures , having their points at a distance of about one inch from each other .
The comtunicatiot n ith the battery was kept up for one quarter of an hour , a third ligature was then tied in the centre of the detached vein , in order to cut off the connection between the positive and negative ends .
On removing the portion of the vein included by the ligatures , and containing the conductors , it was found that the gaseous products had forced out nearly the whole of the blood , at the part through which the wires were inserted ; alkaline and acid matter were readily detected , but no new product could be discovered .
Finding the coagulation of the blood an insurmountable obstacle to the long continued electrical action , the serum only was employed in the following experiments .
Experiment 3 .
loth of March , 1809 .
The conductors from one hundred and twenty four inch double plates , highly charged , were brought within two inches of each other , in some recent serum of blood , obtained free from the colouring matter , by carefully pouring it off from the coagulum .
Coagulated albumen was rapidly separated at the negative pole , and alkaline matter evolved : at the positive pole , a small quantity of albumen was gradually deposited , and litmus paper indicated the presence of acid .
These are the effects produced by a high electrical power upon serum .
Experiment 4 .
14th of April , 1809 .
Was undertaken to ascertain the effect of a low power ; a battery was employed , consisting of twelve four inch double plates of copper and iron .
In this case , there was at first no appearance of coagulation at either pole ; in five minutes , the positive wire became covered with a film of albumen , and in fifteen minutes a filament of about a quarter of an inch in MDcccIX .
E 389 -$90 length was seen floating in the fluid , and adhering to the satmewire .
Experiment .
6th of May , 18o9 .
Two small platina cups , connected by a large quantity of cotton well washed , and each containing one ounce of serum , were rendered positive and negative , by thirty double three0 inch plates very weakly charged .
The process was continued during twenty-four hours .
This power had not been sufficient to produce coagulation at the negative pole .
On examining the fluid in the negative cup , it was found to consist principally of an alkaline solution of albumen. .
Tie fluid in the positive cup was rather turbid , it reddenedl litmus , and was slightly acid to the taste .
On standing , it deposited a few flakes of albumen .
When evaporated , it af , forded saline matter , with excess of acid , ( super salts .
) : By these experiments it is ascertained , that a low negative power of electricity separates from the serum of the blood an alkaline solution of albumen ; that a low positive power separates albumen with acid , and the salts of the blood .
That with one degree of power , albumen is separated in a. solid form , with a less degree , it is separated in a fluid form .
From these facts , the following queries are proposed .
ist .
That such decomposition of the blood by electricity , may be as near an approach to secretion , as could be expected to be produced by the artificial means at present in our power .
sd .
That a weaker power of electricity , than any that can be readily kept up by art , may be capable of separating from the blood , the different parts of which it is composed , and forming new combinations of the parts so separated .
3d .
That the structure of the nerves may fit them to have a low electrical power , which can be employed for that purpose , and as such low powers are not influenced by imperfect conductors , as animal fluids , the nerves will not be robbed of their electricity by the surrounding parts .
4th .
That the discovery of an electrical power , which can separate albumen from the blood in a fluid state , and another that separates it in a solid state , may explain the mode in which different animal solids and fluids may be produced , since , according to Mr. HATCHETT'S experiments , albumen is the principal material of which animal bodies are composed .
5 .
That the nerves of the torpedo may not only keep the electric organ under the command of the will , but charge the battery , by secreting the fluid between the plates , that is necessary for its activity .
6 .
As albumen becomes visibly coagulated , by the effect produced from twelve four inch double plates of copper and iron , a power much too low to affect even the most delicate electrometer , may not this be occasionally employed with advantage as a chemical test of electricity , whilst the production of acid and alkali , affected by still inferior degrees of electricity to those required for the coagulation of albumen may likewise be regarded as auxiliary tests on such occasions ?
If these facts and observations appear to the Society to throw any light upon the principle of secretion , it may be an advantage to medical science , that they should be laid before the putblic , as hints for future inquiry .
oE2 39

