104 Election of Fellows .
[ June 5 , June 5 , 1890 .
The Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows was held this day .
Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read , General Clerk and Dr. Gladstone were , with the , consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
The votes of the Fellows present were then collected , and the following candidates were declared duly elected into the Society :\#151 ; Baker , Sir Benjamin , M.Inst .
C.E. Bosanquet , Robert Holford Mac-dowall , M.A. Burbury , Samuel Hawkesley , M.A. Gardiner , Walter , M.A. Kerr , John , LL. D. Lea , Arthur Sheridan , D.Sc .
MacMahon , Percy Alexander , Major R.A. Norm an , Rev. Alfred Merle , M.A. Perkin , Professor William Henry , jun .
, F.C.S. Pickering , Professor Spencer Umfreville , M.A. Roberts , Isaac , F.R.A.S. Sharp , David , M.B. Teall , J. J. Harris , M.A. Thorne , Richard Thorne , M.B. Weldon , Walter Frank Raphael , M.A. Thanks were given to the Scrutators .
June 5 , 1890 .
Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; 1890 .
] Force of Gravity at Kevo and Greenwich .
j \#171 ; Account of recent Pendulum Operations for determining the relative Force of Gravity at the Kew and the Greenwich Observatories .
" By General Walker , C.B. , F.R.S. , LL. D. Received April 15 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) It is well known that a series of pendulum observations was carried on in India , during the years 1865 to 1873 , with two invariable pendulums , the property of the Royal Society .
The Observatory of the Royal Society at Kew was chosen as the base-station of the operations , and the pendulums were swung there before being sent out to India , and again on their return from India .
With a view to connecting the observations with those which had already been taken with other pendulums in other parts of the world , it was intended , on the return of the pendulums from India , to swing them at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , which was a well established pendulum station , observed at by General Sir Edward Sabine , the Russian Admiral Liitke , and others .
But when the time arrived for making the observations at the Greenwich Observatory , such extensive preparations were being made there for the equipment of expeditions for the observation of the approaching transit of Venus that no room was available for the pendulum operations .
It was , therefore , decided to make the connexion with Kew by swinging at Kew Kater 's convertible pendulum , for determining the absolute length of the seconds pendulum , which had been swung 40 years previously at Greenwich by General Sabine .
This being done , the length of the seconds pendulum at Kew was found to be 0'0027 of an inch greater than the length which had been previously determined at Greenwich , and consequently that the daily vibration number was three vibrations greater at Kew than at Greenwich .
The difference , however , was far too large to be admissible , as the observatories are nearly in the same latitude , and differ very slightly in height .
In 1881 Colonel Herschel , R.E. , was deputed by the Secretary of State for India to take pendulum observations at the two observatories , and at the old pendulum station in London , and also at some stations in America , with a view to improving and strengthening the connexion between the observations in India and those in other parts of the world .
On completing his work in America , he handed over , the three pendulums which he had employed to officers of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey , by whom they were taken round the world and swung at Auckland , Sydney , Singapore , Tokio , San Francisco , and finally at Colonel Herschel 's terminal station at Washington .
Mr. T. Andrews .
[ June 5 , But when the observations came to be finally reduced , it was found that the difference between Colonel Herschel 's results at Kew and Greenwich , as shown independently by the three pendulums , had an extreme range of about seven vibrations in the daily vibration number .
The cause of theso differences was mysterious and inexplicable , and there was no alternative but to swing the pendulums a second time at the two observatories .
The revisionary work was undertaken by the observatory staff at each place , in such intervals of leisure as they could obtain from their regular operations .
The final results , by the three pendulums , make the vibration number at Kew in excess of that at Greenwich by 1'56 , 150 , and 0'59 , giving an average excess of 1*22 .
The correction to this quantity for the excess of height of the Greenwich over the Kew Observatory is \#151 ; 0'58 .
Thus , the revisionary operations , reduced to the mean sea-level , make the excess of Kew over Greenwich = 0*64 of a vibration , which may be accepted as very fairly probable .
II .
" Observations on Pure Ice."\#151 ; Part II .
By Those .
Andrews , F.R.S. , M.Inst .
C.E. Received May 1 , 1890 .
The Plasticity of Ice .
In a paper , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 40 , 1886 , p. 544 , I recorded the result of " Observations on Pure Ice and Snow , " and having subsequently had occasion to use large quantities of low temperature freezing mixtures in the prosecution of other investigations , it seemed desirable to take advantage of the opportunity , and to further utilise the freezing mixtures in making collaterally the following additional experiments bearing on some of the plastic or viscous properties of ice at various temperatures .
Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd , in their valuable and interesting paper on " The Plasticity of Glacier and other Ice ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , 1888 , p. 331 ) , remark that " the variation of the plasticity of ice with the temperature is of great interest both for the theory of glaciers and for the explanation of the plasticity itself .
" I hope , therefore , that the experiments now recorded may assist in affording some information in connexion with this subject .
An acquaintance with the causes of the flow of glaciers can scarcely be complete without some accurate experimental knowledge of the plasticity of ice at various temperatures , and it was partly with this object that the following experiments were commenced .
The experiments form a continuation of those contained in my former paper .
The arrangement of apparatus is described below , and illustrated by the accompanying sketch , fig. 1 .

