The Action of Adrenin on Veins .
( Communication .
) By J. A. Gunn and F. B. Chavasse .
( Communicated by Prof. Francis Gotch , F.R.S. Received December 13 , 1912 , \#151 ; Read February 6 , 1913 .
) ( From the Pharmacological Laboratory , Oxford .
) It would be remarkable if the vein wall were the only tissue in the body to possess contractile fibres without a functionally important duty of contracting .
Very little attention , however , has been paid to physiological alterations in the calibre of the veins , though such alterations may be of high importance in modifying physiological and pathological conditions of the circulation , and in explaining certain actions of drugs .
The following investigation was undertaken in the hope of adding something to the knowledge of the contractile power of the veins ; and , though the intended scope of the inquiry has not yet been completed , results have already been obtained which appear to be of sufficient importance to justify their being placed on record . .
Method .
The method employed for recording the contractions of veins was similar , in essential respects , to that used by Cow* for determining the reactions of surviving arteries .
In our experiments the veins were obtained from freshly killed sheep , and put , as soon as they could be obtained , into a Dewar flask containing oxygenated Ringer 's solution at 37 ' C. , and so conveyed to the laboratory .
A large water-bath , kept , unless otherwise stated , with a variation of half a degree on either side , at 36 ' C. , held two beakers containing oxygenated Ringer 's solution at the same temperature .
In one of these beakers the veins were put until required ; in the other was put the part of the vein used for each experiment .
For these experiments ring preparations were made .
It is difficult to cut quickly and without undue manipulation of the vein a ring of absolutely uniform cylindrical length ; but the rings used had a length averaging 1*5 mm. , which varied not more than | mm. on either side at different parts of the ring .
The ring was suspended between platinum hooks , the lower hook being fixed , the upper attached by a silk thread to a lever , which recorded variations in the calibre of the ring upon a slowly revolving drum .
* Cow , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 42 , p. 125 .
The Action of Adreni Veins .
( a ) Veins Remote from the Heart .
All the ring preparations of ( large ) veins which we have so far subjected to the action of adrenin have responded by contraction .
In the experiments illustrated in the accompanying figures the magnification of movement was the same in each case .
Fig. 1 shows the contraction of an external jugular , Fig. 1 .
fig. 2 of a mesenteric , vein .
In regard to the amount of contraction produced they are , however , not comparable , because the temperature in the case of the mesenteric vein was higher ( 41 ' C. ) than in the other experiments , in which it was 36 ' C. Fig. 2 .
The fact that veins contract under the action of adrenin renders it highly probable that veins possess venoconstrictor fibres supplied from the thoracico-lumbar sympathetic system .
Several observers have concluded that the portal veins contain venomotor nerves ; but the presence of such nerves in other veins rests mainly on the evidence of Thompsou* and Bancroft , f who * Thompson , ' Archiv f. Physiol. , ' 1893 , p. 102 .
+ Bancroft , ' Amer .
.Journ .
Physiol. , ' 1898 , vol. 1 , p. 477 Messrs. J. A. Gunn and F. B. Chavasse .
[ Dec. 13 , found that stimulation of the sciatic nerve in the cat and rabbit produced visible contraction of the superficial veins of the hind limbs .
( b ) Veins Near the Heart .
Considerable interest attaches to the action of adrenin on the great veins near the heart .
It has long been known that in the mammal the great veins near the heart , which correspond in some ways at least to the sinus venosus in the frog , beat rhythmically with the heart proper .
One of us has on previous occasions made unsuccessful attempts to obtain a spontaneously contracting ring preparation of the superior vena cava of the cat and rabbit .
A renewal of this endeavour with the larger rings from the sheep and bullock has been equally unsuccessful , though it is not suggested that this may not yet be accomplished .
What we believe to be a phenomenon of considerable interest and importance is that such a quiescent ring preparation of the superior vena cava near the heart can be made to beat vigorously and rhythmically by the action of adrenin .
For these experiments the venae cavae were removed along with part of the auricle , so that the distance of the ring from the auricle could be measured accurately .
Fig. 3 shows the effect of adrenin , 1 in 20,000 , on a ring preparation of the superior vena cava of a sheep , 6 mm. distant from the angle of its junction with the auricle .
The kind of effect produced by adrenin on this venous ring is exactly like that produced by it on the whole heart .
Though it cannot be postulated with absolute certainty in the case of the quiescent tissue , inspection of the tracing leaves little room for doubt that adrenin augments and accelerates the contractions of the ring .
In the first place , therefore , this method of experiment affords evidence in favour of the view that the augmentor-accelerator nerve supply of the heart extends for some distance up the superior vena cava .
Secondly , it throws some light on the origin of the rhythmicity of the heart .
The ring of the superior vena cava is quiescent .
( This is established not only by the absence of movements of the lever , but also by observation of the ring in a strong light .
) Adrenin almost immediately induces powerful rhythmic contractions .
The action of adrenin is a continuous stimulus to which the muscle responds by a discontinuous ( rhythmic ) contraction .
Now the researches of Lewandowski , Langley , Elliott , Dale , and others have established with an unusual degree of certainty that adrenin acts on the myo-neural junctions of the thoracico-lumbar sympathetic system , and that its action is confined to these .
Unless , therefore , the action of adrenin 1912 .
] The Action of Adrenin on Veins .
Messrs. J. A. Gunn and F. B. Chavasse .
[ Dee .
13 , on the superior vena cava is unique , there are apparently only two ways in which its action on the quiescent superior vena cava can be explained .
On the neurogenic hypothesis of the rhythmicity of the heart , it is possible to hold that the continuous stimulation by adrenin of the sympathetic myo-neural junctions so raises the excitability of the muscle that previously subminimal rhythmic impulses from intrinsic motor ganglia ( hypothetically present in the ring preparation ) are now adequate to elicit rhythmic contractions .
On the myogenic hypothesis , on the other hand , stimulation of the myoneural junctions of the sympathetic nerve causes the muscle to enter into the rhythmic activity which is inherent in it .
All that can be said at present is that the latter explanation seems somewhat more probable .
If , however , we should be able to elicit , by adrenin , rhythmic contractions in a ring of the superior vena cava in which subsequent histological investigation can reveal no ganglia , then it would furnish a cogent argument in favour of the myogenic hypothesis of the rhythmicity of the heart .
Further , this kind of investigation has afforded , and with further experiment , it is hoped will afford with greater accuracy , a physiological method of determining how far the rhythmically contractile tissue extends up the great veins , and where it merges into non-rhythmic contractile tissue .
The difference in physiological reaction can be controlled by subsequent histological investigation .
In the meantime it can be said that the rhythmically contractile tissue extends up the superior vena cava of the sheep for at least Fig. 4 .
6\#151 ; 8 mm. from the veno-auricular junction .
Fig. 4 shows that 16 mm. from this junction , a ring of the same superior vena cava which gave the rhythmic contractions shown in fig. 3 responds to adrenin by simple contraction .
It must be emphasised that a negative result in inducing rhythmic responses is not in itself conclusive , because , even at 6 mm. distance from the heart , adrenin does not always induce rhythmic contractions .
Under the conditions of the present experiments it is not possible for the veins to reach the laboratory always in the same condition of excitability ; and we have found 1912 .
] The Action of Adrenin on Veins .
that a negative result is likely to arise when the muscle of the vein is subnormally excitable to electrical stimulation .
In the inferior vena cava we have on no occasion been able to induce rhythmic contractions .
The rings of the inferior vena cava have always responded by simple non-rhythmic contraction , as shown in fig. 5 .
These experiments are being continued , and extended to the action of other drugs .
Inf p/ jo/ Vfiua Cavn ( iS'/ tf cp ) Ad r e nr n / in 100,000 .
Fig. 5 .
Summary .
1 .
The action of adrenin upon ring preparations of veins remote from the heart is to diminish their calibre , as in the case of arteries .
They , therefore , probably contain venoconstrictor nerve fibres from the thoracico-lumbar sympathetic system .
2 .
The action of adrenin on quiescent rings from the superior vena cava near the heart is to cause them to beat rhythmically and powerfully .
3 .
( a ) The accelerator-augmentor nerve supply of the heart , and ( ) the rhythmically contractile tissue , extend up the superior vena cava for at least 6\#151 ; 8 mm. from the veno-auricular junction in the heart of the sheep .
4 .
The induction by adrenin of rhythmic contraction in the quiescent superior vena cava seems , on the whole , in accordance with the myogenic theory of mammalian heart rhythmicity .

