I. " On the Phenomena of Light , Heat , and Sound accompanying the fall of Meteorites .
" By W. RITTER V. HAIDINGEt , For .
Mem. R.S. &amp;c. Received October 6 , 1868 .
A particular incident caused me to return to some portions of my earlier studies in regard to meteors and meteorites .
It was the fall of a meteorite at Kakowa on the 19th of May 1858 that first induced me to bestow some more attention on this department of physical science .
A report on the subject I laid before our Imperial Academy of Vienna on the 7th of January , 1859 .
On the same day also I gave the first list of the meteorites forming the meteorite collection in our Imperial Mineralogical Museum .
A series of reports on meteorites followed , as well as a number of catalogues of meteorites , in accordance with the growing riches of the collection , embracing from 137 to 236 numbers of localities preserved up to the date of July 1 , 1867 .
But the studies relating to the recent fall of Ausson on the 9th of December 1858 , and the ancient fall of the meteoric iron of HIraschina , near Agram , on the 26th of May 1751 , others on the Cape meteorites of 1838 , on those of Shalka , 1850 , Allahabad , 1822 , Quenggouk ( Pegu ) , 1857 , Assam , found 1846 , Segowlee , 1853 , St. Denis-Westrem , 1855 , Nebraska , found 1356 , but particularly some studies relating to meteorites of Stannern , 1858 , and of that most remarkable meteoric iron from Tula , discovered in 1856 by Auerbach , all of them within the period of 1851 to 1860 , and then the fall of New Concord , 1860 , and of Parnallee , 1857 , had forcibly called upon me to draw up , as it were , a general rule of the nature and succession of events which probably might have taken place in the history of their existence , though in each particular case only fragments of that history came to our notice .
A general survey of this kind I had the honour to lay before our Imperial Academy on the 14th of March 1861 , " On the nature of Meteorites , relating to their composition and the phenomena of their fall"* .
I felt , it is true , that I had rather too boldly ventured to transgress the limits of my former studies ; but at the same time , led on by the high interest connected with the subject , I wished to gain some more publicity for it .
As to England , I was most kindly and effectively patronized by that energetic promoter of meteoritic science my most honoured friend Mr. R. P. Greg .
He laid a notice of mine before the British Association for the Advancement of Science , held that year at Manchester , and accompanied it with several considerations of his own T ; then , also , he kindly had the pages of the Philosophical Magazine opened for me , and presented me with an edition of separate copies of a memoir on the subject-nearly a translation , by my honoured friend Count A. F. Marschall , of my original communication to our Academy y. At the Meeting of German naturalists and physicians at Speyer , my honoured friend Dr. Otto Buchner kindly called the attention of the friends of this department of natural science to my memoir , which had been favourably mentioned in the reports .
A note of mine , containing the leading views of my papers , was likewise laid by my honoured friend M. Elie de Beaumont before the Paris Academnie des Sciences in their Meeting of September 9th , 1861 , while I also sent a French translation by my excellent friend Count Marschall , together with a copy of my original memoir ? .
Since that time , up to this day , I had frequently , in several communications on meteoritic subjects , had an opportunity to refer to these leading papers , and to support the views which they contained .
Therefore I had every reason to be astonished when I read , in a recent work on meteorites by M. Stanislas Meunier l , the following assertion:- " ' We may observe that a great number of particular phenomena occurring in the fall of meteorites have hitherto remained without explanation .
Thus the reason of the ex* " Ueber die Natur der Meteoriten in ihrer Zusammensetzung und Erscheinung , " Sitznngsberichte der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften , der MI.athem.-naturw .
Class , 1861 , Band xliii .
Abth .
ii .
S. 389-425 .
t " An attempt to account for the Physical Condition and the Fall of Meteorites upon our Planet , by W. Haiclinger , Hon. Memb. E.S.L. &amp; E. &amp;c. , " Report , 1861 , Transactions of the Sections , p. 15 .
" Some Considerations on M. Haidinger 's Communication on the Origin and Fall of Aerolites , by R. P. Greg , F.G.S. , " ibid. p. 13 .
$ Considerations on the Phenomena attending the Fall of Meteorites on the Earth , by W. Iaidinger , For .
Memb. R.S.L. &amp; E. ; and Philosophical Magazine for November and December 1861 . ?
" De la nature des bolides et de leur mode de formation .
Lettre de M. iaidinger , " Comptes Rendus hebdomadaires des seances de l'Acad6mie des Sciences etc. t. liii .
Juillet-Decembre 1861 , pp. 456-461 .
II Etude , descriptive , theorique , et experimentale sir les Meteorites , par M. Stanislas Meunier .
Paris , 1857 , p. 18 .
plosions , and particularly of the repeated explosions , that of the rumblings , that of the incandescence , are still absolutely unknown " * .
But I had still more reason to be astonished when I found M. Daubr6e himself nearly upon the same level in his views respecting the origin of light , heat , and sound in the fall of meteorites .
I certainly heartily appreciate the high merit of my honoured friend M. Daubree , in regard both to his deep studies on meteorites and his eminent success in forwarding the interests of the Paris Museum of Meteorites ; but I at the same time may be permitted to consider my own views , as given in the memoirs quoted , as representing a scientific advance compared with the statements of M. leunier and those of M1 .
Daubree himself in his last memoir on the Orgueil fall f. Neither M. Daubree nor M. Meunier had refuted or even objected to my views ; they had only passed them over in silence , doubtless because they had escaped their notice .
But I believe I am fulfilling a duty to scientific progress if I endeavour to place the discrepant and even contradictory views on these subjects together , with the view once more to excite attention and recommend them to further study on the part of the votaries of natural science ; and it was with this view that I prepared a new memoir , to be laid before our Imperial Academy in their approaching period of session , on the light , heat , and sound accompanying the fall of meteorites .
I begin with some of the statements put forth by M. Daubre'e , as taken from his memoir on Orgueil : " Things go on as if the greater part of the mass of the meteor got out of our atmosphere , in order to continue its course , after having left us some particles , the velocity of which , in consequence of the explosion , was reduced " 4 .
M. Daubree does not admit the arrival of groups or swarms of meteorites as has been asserted ? .
" The carbonaceous meteorites contradict the hypothesis that the heat of the meteorites is due to the loss of their vis viva " 1 .
The sounds , detonations under the name of explosions , remain without explanation ?
[ .
M. Daubree attributes to mere chance the situation of what he calls " scales , " or " ecailles de meteorites , " at the moment of an explosion , if they present certain particular seams of crust surrounding their most ex* " ' emarquons qu'un grand nombre de particularites offertes par la chute des met6orites sont restees jusqu ' " pr6sent sans explication .
Ainsi , la cause des explosions et surtout des explosions multiples , celle des roulements , celle de l'incandescence , sont absolument inconnues .
" f " Complement d'Observations sir la chute de meteorites qui a eu lieu le 14 My 1864 aux environs d'Orgueil , " Nouvelles Archives da Museum d'HIistoire Naturelle , t. iii .
pp. 1-19 .
+ " Les choses se passentldone comme si la plus grande party de la mass me6torique ressortait de l'atmosphere pour continuer sa trajectoire , n'abandonnant que quelques parcels dont la vitesse , a la suite de l'explosion , se trouvait amortie."-Op .
cit. p. 15 . ?
Comme on 'a dit .
1| " Les meteorites eharbonneuses contredisent l'hypothese que la chaleur des meteorites est due a la perte de leur force vive."-Op .
cit. p. 8 .
[ " Sans explication."-Op .
cit. p. 16 .
tended surface , by which , being foremost , they forced their way through the opposing atmosphere .
In regard to this position I had long ago advanced that it must have been a necessary result , while the rectilinear movement of the meteorite was in the way of being checked , of part of the force having been expended in producing a rotatory motion , perpendicular to the direction of the course .
This I did in particular , in a paper on the meteoric iron of I-raschina , on the 14th of April 1859 , then on an aerolite from Stannern on the 22nd of May 1862 , and in other instances .
The above-mentioned quotations of M. Danbree 's views are now compared with the successive periods of progress in the fall of meteorites , nearly in the same words as I proposed them in 1861 .
In the arrival of meteorites on our earth:1 .
Single or agglomerated fragments , in their cosmical course , come into contact with our globe .
2 .
The fragments are arrested by the resistance of atmospheric air .
3 .
Pressure , in their progress through the atmospheric air , elicits light and heat ; rotation ensues , and a melted crust is formed .
4 .
The white-hot compressed air is spread out in the form of a fireball , closed up behind , and enclosing the fragment , or fragments , and a vacuumspace .
5 .
The cosmic course is at an end when the fragment , or the fragments , have been arrested by air .
6 .
Light and heat are no longer generated ; the vacuum-ball will collapse with a loud report , or several reports following each other .
7 .
The cosmic cold within the aerolite assists in reducing the heat of the melted crust .
8 .
The meteorite falls down upon the earth like any other ponderous body , the hotter the better conducting material it consists of .
In this way I believe it was my duty again to lay before the public the differences of the views newly taken by M. Daubree from those which I hitherto had advocated .
But while w was engaged in contrasting them I found myself conspicuously supported by a number of recent publications relative to the subject in question .
In one of his own papers M. Daubree had to register the statement of M. Leymerie , of Toulouse , who considered the fall of Orgueil as presenting not one meteoric mass exploded , but a swarm of aerolites arrived at the same moment .
But above all , two reports of the fall of 30th January 1868 , near Pultusk , both of them kindly presented to me by their respective authors , bore ample testimony in favour of a number of my theses , and enlarged them by deeper and more accurate investigation beyond what I formerly proposed .
These are the memoir " On the Course of the Pultusk Meteorite " * , by Ueber die Bahn des am 30 .
Januar 1868 beobachteten und bei Pultusk imr Konigreiche Polen als Steinregen niedergefallenen Meteors durch die Atmosphare .
Voin Professor Dr. C. G. Gall , Direktor der Sternwarte zu Breslau .
Vorgetragen am 4 .
158 [ Dec. 10 , Professor J. G. Gall in Breslan , and another , " On the Meteorites of Pultusk " * , by Professor G. vom Rath , in Bonn .
In both of them the most evident proofs are given of the actuality of a swarm , consisting of a very great number of distinct airolites , having entered our atmosphere .
The course of the Pultusk meteor , according to M. Gall , met the horizontal line under an angle of 44 degrees at the place of dispersion , at a height of 25'25 English miles , or 5German miles .
After its movement was checked , and the force of it expended in the development of light and heat , how would it have been possible that , as it would follow from M. )aubree 's supposition , the great mass of the meteor should have risen again and left our atmosphere to continue its cosmical orbit ?
Nor could such be the case with the Knyahinya meteor , which pounced upon our earth almost from the zenith of the place , the course making an angle only of 6 degrees with the perpendicular .
But even the Orgueil meteor moved in a direction meeting the horizontal line at the point of dispersion under an angle of about 11 26 ' , from which position it certainly could not rise again higher up into the atmosphere , and still less leave it altogether .
I availed myself of the circumstance that I had been gratified by several honoured friends with a number of important publications closely connected with the subject , to quote some appropriate passages .
I would refer especially to that grand 'Atlas of Charts of Meteor-tracks , ' by Messrs. R. P. Greg and A. S. Herschel t , together with the " Reports of Luminous Meteors for the years 1865 and 1866-1867 " , and to the recent memoir by M. G. V. Schiaparelli on the astronomical theory of falling stars ?
, kindly sent to me by the late lamented Mlatteucci .
Schiaparelli holds forth that in shootingstars " the vis viva , while the meteoric matter is dispersed in the atmosphere , is completely destroyed by being transformed into heat and light " II .
From Maiirz u. s. w. Besonderer Abdruck aus den Abhandlungen der Schlesischen Gesellschaft fur vaterlandische Cultur .
Breslau , 1868 .
Mr. A. S. Herschel 's observations with the spectroscope , we learn that the condition of the August meteors is exactly that of a flame of gas in a Bunsen 's burner freely charged with the vapour of burning sodium , or of the flame of a spirit-lamp newly trimmed and largely dosed with a supply of moistened salt ( op .
cit. p. 146 ) .
The idea of a diminutive fireball containing the solid mass , although diminutive itself , surrounded by a luminous gaseous case , including a vacuum , till the force of the movement is spent in heat and light , may not be considered inadequate to the subject .
In a most interesting memoir entitled c " Contributions to the Knowledge of Falling Stars " * , by Dr. Edmond Weiss , of Vienna , that able astronomer ( the representative , together with Dr. Oppolzer and Lieut. Reziha , of the Austrian Navy , of our Austrian expedition for the eclipse of 18th of August at Aden , where they were so hospitably welcomed and kindly supported by the Governor-General , J. Russell , in behalf of the British Government , along with the North-German expedition , composed of Drs. Vogel , Fritsche , Zenker , and Thiele ) considers among other subjects the influence of the earth 's attraction upon shower-meteors , independently of Schiaparelli 's disquisitions relative to the same subject , and points out also the circumstance that some of them may receive such a direction as to leave our solar system altogether , while Dr. Gall insists upon the fact that the Pultusk swarm must have entered it with an independent force of at least from 4 , to 7 English miles ( 1 to 1 !
geographical miles ) .
My original design was only to offer some appropriate remarks on the subject of the phenomena of light , heat , and sound generated in and accompanying the arrival of meteorites on the earth through our terrestrial atmosphere ; but the different departments of natural science referring to meteors and meteorites are of so manifold a nature , that I frequently was obliged to advert to some of them in regard to which I should rather have kept more on the reserve .
But the whole range of meteorand meteoritescience , continually enlarging , more and more clearly presents itself in these four grand sections:-lst , the original formation of meteorites ; 2nd , their movement through cosmic space ; 3rd , their arrival through the atmosphere upon our earth ; and , 4th , the studies instituted on the objects themselves , which fall into our hands and are preserved in our museums .
To the third of these sections it is that my particular attention was directed .
ei Beitrage sir Kenntniss der Sternschnuppen , von dem c. M. Dr. Edmund Weiss .
Vorgelegt in der Sitzung am 16 .
Janner 1868 , " Sitzungsberichte der Math.-nat .
Class der Kais .
Akademie der Wissenschaften , lvii .
Band ii .
Abth .
5 .
pp. 281-342 .
[ Dec. 10 ,

