Description of the Arseniates of Copper , and of Iron , from the County of Cornwall .
By the Count de Bournon .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. ReadFebruary 19 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 169 .
] In the mine called Huel Gorland , in the parish of Gwennap in Cornwall , has lately been discovered a species of ore , consisting of different combinations of the arsenic acid with copper and iron , which , though some mention have been made of it by German writers as having been found in Silesia , appears yet , from the great abundance afforded by the above-mentioned mine , to be almost peculiar to this country .
After an historical account of the little that has hitherto been known concerning this substance , Count Bournon proceeds to describe the external appearance of the specimens he has had opportunities to examine ; and from these characters , together with an accurate analysis of the different sorts made by Mr. Chenevix , he deduces the following classification of this new mineral .
The principal distinction is in arseniates of copper and of iron .
Of the former there are four species:1 .
Arseniates of copper , in the form of an obtuse octaedron .
This is said to be the most simple , and appears to be the original form of an ore .
The minute descriptions of the crystals are in this , as in all other species , illustrated by delineations .
This sort is very light , its average specific gravity being 28'819 .
Its hardness is inconsiderable , and its transparency seldom perfect .
Its colour is either a beautiful deep blue or a fine grass-green , and sometimes white with a slight blue cast .
According to the analysis , this variety of colours depends chiefly on the quantity of water which enters into the crystallization .
2 .
Arseniate of copper in hexaedral laminae with inclined edges .
The colour of this ore is a fine deep emerald green , and sometimes a light green .
Twp of the six sides have so great a lustre that they often assume the appearance of metallic foils .
Its specific gravity is 25 488 .
It is less hard than the preceding species .
Its thin crystals are transparent , and it frequently decrepitates in fire .
3 .
Arseniate of copper in the form of acute octaedrons .
Its colour is a brown or bottle-green , the surface often reflecting a golden tint .
Its specific gravity is 42*809 .
It is sufficiently hard to scratch fluor spar , but not glass .
Its transparency is generally very great .
These general characters are by no means permanent .
Its crystals are not always determined , nor does it at all times exhibit a similarity of icolours .
These differences of form and aspect have induced the Count to distinguish five varieties , which are denominated as follows : -1 .
Capillary of a determinate form ; 2 .
Capillary of an indeterminate form ; 3 .
In crystals perfectly regular in one part of their lengths , and fibrous at their extremity ; 4 .
Amianthiform , consisting of very delicate flexible fibres ; and 5 .
Hematitiform , not unlike the tin ore known by the name Wood-tin .
4 .
Arseniate of copper in the form of a triedral prism.-As the crystals of this species are seldom sufficiently insulated to be distinctly perceivable , and are in general so small as to escape the naked eye , all their various forms are here more particularly described , and also their progressive change of figure as they deviate from their primitive configuration .
Its specific gravity is 42 809 .
Its hardness is not so great as that of the preceding species , as it does not easily scratch calcareous spar .
Its crystals are often transparent , and of a very beautiful blueish-green colour ; but their surface easily decomposes , and the crystals then become black and perfectly opaque .
The second class , being the arseniates of iron , is distinguished into two species:1 .
The arseniates of iron , properly so called.-This ore crystallizes in perfect cubes , sometimes , though rarely , a little flattened .
Its specific gravity is 30 000 : its hardness just sufficient to scratch calcareous spar .
Its crystals , which are tolerably transparent , are of a dark green colour , with sometimes a brownish tinge ; and when a decomposition takes place , the crystals pass into the state of a pulverescent oxide of a fine reddish yellow colour .
The 2nd species is denominated cupro-martial arseniate .
Its crystals are of an uncommon brilliancy , and perfectly transparent : their form is a rhomboidal tetraedral prism .
Its specific gravity is 34 003 : its hardness rather greater than that of the arseniate of iron ; the colour , a very faint sky-blue , sometimes a little deeper .
Hitherto this ore has not been met with in any form but that of a perfect crystal .

