II .
" Further Observations on the Power exercised by the Actinite of our Shores in killing their prey .
" In a Letter to W. BOWMAN , Esq. , F.R.S. , dated Oct. 25 , 1858 .
By R. M'DONNELL , M.D. Communicated by Mr. BOWMAN .
Received Oct. 27 , 1858 .
DEAR SIR , -IIn the course of last winter I had the honour , through your kindness , of making a communication to the Royal Society " On the Power exercised by the Actinie of our Shores in killing their prey ; " allow me now , through the same medium , to correct the view which I was at that time led to adopt , that this power is due to electrical influence .
In the communication alluded to , the idea of these creatures being electrical , was based on the fact , that when the nerve of a frog 's limb , prepared after the manner of Matteucci 's galvanoscopic frog , is seized by the tentacles of an actinia , contractions of the muscles promptly ensue .
It was admitted , however , that all attempts to produce deflection of the galvanometer-needle had failed , and this being the very doubtful state of the question , I ventured to look forward to the pleasure of making another communication on the subject when I had had further opportunities of examining the Actiniae in health and vigour .
I have now had these opportunities , and have found that the most delicate electrometers are unaffected by these animals , and I conceive that by the following simple , and indeed obvious experiments , all idea of the Anemones of our coasts being electrical may be set aside .
A galvanoscopic frog 's limb having been prepared , with the nerve as long as possible , it is laid on a piece of perfectly clear glass , so that the nerve hangs over the edge .
The pendent nerve is lowered into the water containing an Anthea , and the nerve is brought in contact with a single one of the long tentacles of this creature ; immediately vigorous contractions follow in the muscles of the limb , and if everything be left undisturbed , these twitchings will continue for some minutes after the nerve is withdrawn .
If , however , a thread be tied round the nerve , below the point where the tentacle of the Anthea had touched it , all twitchings at once cease .
If the portion touched by the tentacle be snipped off , all twitchings also cease .
Having thus repeatedly observed that contact between the nerve and a single tentacle was followed by muscular contractions , which at once ceased as soon as the portion of the nerve which had been in contact with the tentacle was removed , it occurred to me to try the effect of applying to the nerve a single tentacle removed from the body of an Anthea .
I therefore had recourse to the following experiment:-The hind leg of a frog is separated from the body , the sciatic nerve dissected out carefully , so that the nerve be not crushed or injured , and the thigh cut away .
The limb with the nerve thus dissected out as long as 2 K possible , is to be laid on a plate of clean glass ; a silk thread is tied round the base of one of the tentacles of an Anthea , and the tentacle snipped off .
The mere tentacle separated from the animal to which it belonged is drawn gently across the nerve , or laid upon it , at the upper part : immediately muscular contractions follow in the leg .
These contractions cease at once if the portion of the nerve touched by the tentacle be cut off .
There can , it seems , no longer be any doubt that the muscular contractions are excited , not by electricity , but by irritant action of the urticating organs of the Anthea , which being more powerful in this respect than other Anemones , has been chosen for experiment , although other varieties give similar results .
I now see I was in error in supposing that the effect produced on the frog 's limb by the Actiniae could be transmitted along a wire .
I presume that in preparing the experiment alluded to , which I performed in the open air , at the sea-side , some of the irritant materials of the Anemones , which I had possibly handled , had been brought by my fingers in contact with the nerves , and I was thus deceived .
I am very happy , however , that I am myself the first to perceive and correct this error .
I remain , &amp;c. , ROBERT M'DONNELL .
W. Bowman , Esq. , F.R.S. , c. rec .

