I. " Description of a Compensating Barometer , adapted to Me ?
teorological purposes , and requiring no corrections either for Zero , or for Temperature/ ' By Samuel B. Howlett , Esq. , Chief Military Draftsman , Ordnance .
Communicated by Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , K.H. , V.P.R.S. , &amp;c. In the instrument here described , there is provided , in addition to the ordinary barometric tube ( inverted , in the usual way , in a cistern of mercury , ) a second tube of the same dimensions , placed by the side of the former , and likewise filled with mercury , but only to the height of twenty-eight inches above the level of the mercury of the cistern .
This tube is closed at its lower end , and fixed to a float supported by the mercury in the cistern : and it bears , at its upper end , an ivory scale , three inches in length .
The elevation of the mercury in the barometric tube is estimated by the difference between its level and that of the mercury in the closed tube ; and is measured on the ivory scale by the aid of a horizontal index , embracing both the tubes , and sliding vertically along them .
As the float which bears the closed tube , to which the scale is attached , rests freely on the mercury in the cistern , and consequently always adjusts itself to the level of that fluid , no correction for the zero point is needed ; and as every change of temperature must similarly affect the columns of mercury in both the tubes , after the scale has been adjusted so as to read correctly at any given temperature , such as 32 ?
, which may be effected by comparison with a standard barometer , every other reading will correspond to the same temperature , and will require no correction .
The author considers the error arising from the difference of expansion corresponding to the different lengths of the two columns of mercury , and which will rarely amount to one four-hundredth of an inch , as too small to deserve attention in practice , being , in fact , far within the limits of error in ordinary observations .
Subjoined to the above paper is a letter from the author to Sir John Herschel , containing a statement of comparative observations made with a mountain barometer , and with the compensation barometer , from which it appears that the use of the latter is attended with the saving of a great quantity of troublesome calculation .
The comparative observations are given in a table , exhibiting a range of differences from -f-012 to ?
*016 of an inch .

