An Analysis of the Waters of the Dead Sea and the River Jordan .
By Alexander Marcet , M.D. one of the Physicians to Guy 's HIospital .
Communicated by Smithson Tenant , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 18 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 296 .
] This analysis is preceded by a short abstract of the notice taken of the Dead Sea by various ancient authors , by Strabo , by Tacitus , and by Pliny , as well as by Pococke , Volney , and other modern travellers , who all concur with respect to the intense saltness of the water , which is such as to prevent eithier animals or vegetables from living in it , -a peculiarity from which it has derived its name .
The only analysis which Dr. Marcet has been able to find recorded , is that of Macquer , Lavoisier , and Sage , in the Mem. de l'Academie for 1778 .
But these chemists had not attained that accuracy of which modern analysis is susceptible , and appear not to have bestowed upon the subject that attention which is requisite in minute analytical experiments .
The quantity of the water of the Dead Sea , which was the subject of Dr. Marcet 's experiments , amounted only to about 1 ounce ; but it was in a phial , carefully corked , and appeared to be in a state of perfect preservation .
The smallness of the quantity , and difficulty of obtaining a further supply , occasioned Dr. Marcet to be anxious that none might be wasted in previous trials .
He accordingly began by a variety of comparative experiments on artificial solutions , in order to ascertain the accuracy of various modes of operating ; and as he knew by the analysis of Lavoisier and his associates , that the principal ingredients which he might expect to find were the muriates of soda , of magnesia , and of lime ; and as the general effect of reagents tended to confirm their results , excepting that they indicated the presence of a small quantity of selenite that had been overlooked , the solutions on which Dr. Marcet 's experiments were conducted were made to consist of the same ingredients , and in proportions which he previously ascertained with great precision .
The first step , which appeared indispensable , was to determine the proportions of acid and base in each of the three muriates .
The composition of muriate of lime was ascertained by pouring a quantity of muriatic acid on a piece of marble of known weight , and larger than was necessary to saturate the acid : after saturation and evaporation of the solution , the residuum was heated to redness , and carefully weighed .
From the weight of this residuum , after subtracting the quantity of lime contained in a given weight of marble , which , by a number of experiments performed jointly with Mr. Tenant , was found to be 56-1 per cent. , it appeared that 100 parts of muriate of lime consist of 50 77 lime , and 49 23 muriatic acid .
To discover the proportional parts of muriate of magnesia required a synthetic process somewhat different .
To a known weight of magnesia previously calcined , was added such a quantity of muriatic acid as would dissolve a known weight of marble ; and after the whole of the magnesia had been dissolved , the excess of acid was saturated with marble , by which the redundant quantitywas ascertained .
Hence the quantity of acid combined with the given weight of magnesia was deduced , and the component parts of muriate of magnesia determined to be 43-99 magnesia , and 56601 acid .
The proportion of acid and alkali in muriate of soda , was found , by various methods , to be 46 acid , and 54 soda .
The best method appeared to be that of precipitation by nitrate of silver ; the quantity of acid in luna cornea having been previously determined to be 19 05 per cent , by means of the weight of luna cornea , produced by a given quantity of acid .
The method found most successful for analysing the artificial compound solution , consisted in dividing it into two portions , from one of which the acid was precipitated by nitrate of silver , and its weight ascertained .
From the other the lime was precipitated by oxalate of ammonia , and the magnesia by caustic potash .
The respective quantities of acid , combined with each , being thence deduced by assistance of the preceding experiments , the quantity of muriate of soda could be inferred from the remaining quantity of acid .
By this method a compound solution known to contain 8-17 muriate of lime eared by trial 8.14 26 10 muriate of magnesia appeared by train 2562 25 muriate of soda J2547 After this series of preliminary experiments , Dr. Marcet proceeded to the analysis of the water itself , of which 100 parts by evaporation , at a temperature of 1800 , left a residuum of 41 , and at 212 ?
, 38k .
When 100 grains of the water were treated by muriate of barytes , they gave a precipitate of one-tenth of a grain of sulphate of barytes .
Another portion , weighing 250 grains , by addition of nitrate of silver yielded a precipitate of 163-2 , a quantity equivalent to 31-09 acid .
Oxalate of ammonia being then added , occasioned a precipitate containing 4-814 pure lime ; and hence the quantity of muriate of lime is computed to be 9 48 .
The clear solution , containing the nitrates of magnesia and of soda , with oxalate of ammonia , having then been concentrated by evaporation , subcarbonate of ammonia occasioned a precipitate containing 11 1 of pure magnesia , which are equivalent to 25 25 muriate of magnesia .
After deducting the quantities of acid contained in these muriates from the quantity estimated by luna cornea , there remained 12-28 for acid in the muriate of soda , which , by estimation from preceding experiments , was thus found to be 26-69 .
These results being brought into one view , the water of the Dead Sea appears to contain , in every 100 parts , Muriate of lime ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
3792 Muriate of magnesia ... ... ... ... . .
10-100 Muriate of soda ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 10676 Sulphate of lime ... ... ... ... .
0-054 24-632 being the total amount of saline matter when perfectly dry .
The same chemical reagents as were used to discover the general properties of the water of the Dead Sea being applied to that of the river Jordan , were found to produce analogous effects .
But the quantity of saline matter was so small , that on evaporation of 500 grains at about 2000 , the residuum weighed only eight tenths of a grain .
The inference drawn by Dr. Marcet from the general resemblance is , that the river Jordan might possibly be the source of the saline ingredients of the Dead Sea , or that the same source of impregnation might be common to both .

