1891 .
] On the Structure of Amoeboid , Sfc .
195 periods of time , necessitating the maintenance of a nearly eqoable temperature , and the remaining at rest for many hours , before the top part of the mass becomes sensibly free from suspended portions of the heavier alloy , and the bottom part from similar portions of lighter alloy .
The analytical numbers obtained on examining different layers of the compound ingots prepared in the experiments described in the earlier parts of these researches long ago convinced us of this ; but , in addition , an actual visible presence of suspended particles of one alloy in the midst of another , even after 8 hours tranquil fusion , may be often observed in the case of silver-lead-zinc and silver-bismuth alloys -where the proportions of metals used are such as to form mixtures containing considerable amounts of Ag4Zn5 : by the aid of a lens , or even with the naked eye , red particles disseminated through a much lighter coloured matrix can often be distinguished on examining the central portions of an ingot that has been filed smooth and bright , and then kept for awhile so as to allow the red tinge to develop .
IV .
" On the Structure of Amoeboid Protoplasm , with a Comparison between the Nature of the Contractile Process in Amoeboid Cells and in Muscular Tissue , and a Suggestion regarding the Mechanism of Ciliary Action .
" By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received January 26 , 1891 .
It has been shown by the researches of numerous histologists , of whpm Heitzmann and Frommann , and , in this country , Klein , must be reckoned the pioneers , that the protoplasm of many cells exhibits the appearance of a network containing an apparently homogeneous material in its meshes .
The network is known as the reticulum or spongioplasm , the clear material in its meshes as enchylema ( Carnoy ) or hyaloplasm .
In many cells it is not difficult to observe this structure even without the addition of reagents , but in amoeboid cells such as the white blood corpuscle and the amoeba it is less obvious , mid its presence has not been generally conceded .
Recently , ro essor Strieker* has published a photograph of an amoeboid white ood corpuscle , taken instantaneously by aid of the electric light , 'Wttieh shows the reticular appearance in quite an unmistakable manner ; it must be granted , therefore , that the amoeboid white oo corpuscle also has this structure .
Previously to the appearance of Professor Strieker 's photograph , I myself for some time been engaged in investigating the structure amoeboid cells with the aid of photography .
Being unprovided * 'Wiener Medic .
Jahrb .
, ' 1890 .
Prof. E. A. Schafer .
[ Feb. 12 , with the appliances necessary for photographing by the electric light I was unable to obtain instantaneous photographs , and could not photograph the corpuscles while actually living and moving , j accordingly adopted a method of suddenly killing the corpuscles whilst still in the amoeboid condition with their pseudopodia extended It is well known that with most methods which are employed to fix the white blood corpuscles there is time for a contraction of the protoplasm to be produced , sq that the pseudopodia are withdrawn and the corpuscle becomes spherical .
The method which I have used consists in the instantaneous application of a jet of steam to the surface of the cover-glass .
A preparation of blood , preferably from the newt ( Tritoncristatus ) , is made either in a moist chamber or in the usual way on a glass slide .
In a short time the white corpuscles become highly amoeboid and throw out pseudopodia , which may spread themselves in a thin layer upon the cover glass in a manner which is perfectly adapted for their being accurately observed .
If the steam be now turned on for an instant , the cells are suddenly killed , and remain exactly in the condition in which they happened to be when the heat was applied .
They can be examined and photo-graphed thus , or may first be stained by hasmatoxylin , with or without being previously treated with alcohol .
In all cases they exhibit the same general structural appearances , and these appearances can even be detected , but with greater difficulty , in the cell whilst still living .
Leaving the nucleus , which beautifully exhibits the karyoplasmic network , out of consideration , the most striking point in all amoeboic white corpuscles thus prepared is the contrast between the protoplasm of the body of the cell and that of the pseudopodia .
Foi whilst the former exhibits , according to focus , either a finely punctated or a reticular aspect , and stains decidedly with hfemato xylin , the pseudopodia exhibit not the faintest trace of structure and remain almost entirely unstained .
In other words , the protoplasm is composed of two morphologically istinct parts , one which exhibits a reticular arrangement and has an affinity for haematoxylin , and another which shows to the best optical appliances no structural arrangement , and is also chemically different , as is shown by its behaviour to staining reagents .
The observation here recorded is not an isolated one .
Almost all o serveis who have given special attention to the matter have failed to detect a reticular structure in pseudopodia , whether of the amoeboid cells of higher organisms or of the Rhizopoda .
To Butschli 's eory o the structure and activity of protoplasm , * whereby endeavours to show that the reticular appearance and amoeboid phenomena may be explained on the assumption that protoplasm b * ' Heidelberg Yerhandlungen , ' 1890 ; and ' Biologisches Centralblatt , ' 1890 .
I , 1891 .
] On the Structui'e of Amoeboid , fyc .
195 not an actual network with enchylema , but rather a frothy mixture of two dissimilar substances , this absence of all apparent structure in pseudopodia offers an admittedly serious difficulty , which he endeavours to surmount by assuming that the same frothy structure is really present in the pseudopodia as in the body of the cell , but that owing to thinning out it cannot be detected .
But apart from the unlikelihood of our not noticing such structure in the pseudopodia if it were really present , since they are especially well adapted for minute observation , the reticular and the homogeneous substances should , according to this assumption , pass gradually the one into the other , for the thinning-off of the pseudopodia is frequently gradual .
The contrary is , however , the case .
The line of demarcation of the reticular substance is always quite sharp , and does not thin off into the homogeneous substance of the pseudopodia .
Strieker 's photograph is also really evidence in the same direction .
The corpuscle taken is spherical or nearly so , is in the contracted condition .
It has , however , one small pseudopodium .
This is absolutely without structure ; it is the spherical part of the cell which shows the reticulum .
It is well known that if white corpuscles ( and contracted amoeboid cells generally ) are artificially stimulated , they are always spherical .
The spherical form is , in fact , the contracted condition ; it is only in the absence of any obvious source of excitation that the corpuscle throws out pseudopodia .
The spherical condition is immediately produced by electrical or mechanical stimuli ; no doubt , the constant mechanical stimulation which the cells receive in the circulating blood maintains them in the spherical form which they always exhibit whilst moving within the blood-vessels .
Possibly , also , the contact of a foreign particle , causing the contraction and withdrawal of the protoplasm which it touches , and the consequent inception of the particle , is another instance of mechanical stimulation .
Kow , in the contracted corpuscle , the whole cell appears reticular , and the reticulation is even better marked , i.e. , coarser , than that seen in the spread out corpuscle .
The pseudopodial protoplasm or hyaloplasm has , in fact , been withdrawn into the meshes of the framework or spongioplasm .
The protoplasm of such an amoeboid cell as the white blood corpuscle may , therefore , be regarded as composed of two distinct substances , spongioplasm and hyaloplasm .
Spongioplasm has a reticular or sponge-like arrangement , an affinity for staining fluids , is firmer than the hyaloplasm ( but , perhaps , not actually solid ) , and is , in all probability , highly extensile and elastic , Hyaloplasm , on the other hand , is structureless , has little or no affinity for stains , and is highly labile and fluent .
It is by the active flowing of the hyaloProf .
E. A. Schafer .
fFeb .
12 plasm , not by the contraction of the spongioplasm ( as conceived U Carnoy* ) , that the movements of cells are produced . !
Of the t\#171 ; f substances , the hyaloplasm is the more active , the spongioplasm more inert .
The spongioplasm forms , in fact , a sort of framewSr supporting the hyaloplasm , and into which under the influenced stimuli the hyaloplasm becomes wholly withdrawn .
To adont Bruecke 's well-known terminology , the hyaloplasm is the zooid spongioplasm its oecoid .
Whether one or other of these two substances is ever whollv absent from the protoplasm of cells is a question which cannot at present be decided .
There are cells and unicellular organisms both animal and vegetable , m which no reticular structure can be made out , and these may be formed of hyaloplasm alone .
In that case this must be looked upon as the essential part of protoplasm .
So far as amoeboid phenomena are concerned , it is certainly so ; but whether the chemical changes which occur in many cells are effected by this .
or by spongioplasm is another question .
Certainly , the reticulum is always very well marked in cells in which considerable chemical changes are produced , e.g. , gland cells .
The movements within plant cells must also be regarded as due to the flowing of hyaloplasm .
It is , indeed , impossible to conceive that the contraction of a reticulum could produce the circulation of the protoplasm which is seen within a cell of Vallisneria .
How the flowing is produced is an entirely different question , and one which must at present remain unanswered .
" " 'W Wecompare the structure of protoplasm with that of stnated muscle , we Hud many points of coincidence .
As is well fihri7 , " \gt ; 7r'le , ColuTS 0f the muscles of insects ( " wing-of TC , .
" ' : rS\gt ; Bre.dlTlded b7 transverse partitions ( membranes of it \ m a \#174 ; erles.of segments ( sarcomeres , Muskel-kastohen anis^Z Wh'h '01ltains a 8arco\#171 ; element or disk .1 tbT-ZT 7''US rUbStanCe ( which is reallyformed of two halves , ffeneous i\lt ; I+U ' 7 v Slble ^ the line of Hensen ) , and a homofhehT* SU"anCe ' whiob " *he extended muscle occnpiee W It T t , th\saTCOUS ele^nt and the transverse mem-sarcous eleme + aVG 6 S ?
W ere receiltly shown , J the substance of the half of the el 18 fenetr"*ed bT Pores 'r canals which extend in eacb arTocLntl 7 ?
" 7 ^ 4116 U"e or Pla"8 of Hensen , and which stance of the .inters'1 Thtt CJ'"tmUOa8 \#153 ; th the homogeneous sub-with hspmnfrvsrvT 13 ; e substance of the sarcous element stams anbsta^r^ trclTar " W* ^ homogeneous 6 Cle ^tervals remains unstained .
When the * 'Biologie Cellulaire , ' 1886 .
t Mtr 'Zelle " .
G\#171 ; webe , ' Bonn , 1885 .
Monthly International Journal of Anatomy and Phyeiology , ' vol. 8 , 1891 .
1891 .
] On the Structure of Amoeboid , Sfc .
197 muscle contracts , the homogeneous substance passes from the intervals into the pores of the sarcous element , and thus enlarges the 1 latter , while the clear intervals are proportionately shortened , so that in extreme contraction they may disappear , and the swollen and H bulged sarcous element may almost abut against the tranverse 1 membranes .
On the other hand , when the contraction passes off , and the muscle becomes extended , the homogeneous substance passes out of the pores of the sarcous element into the clear intervals ; the latter become manifest , and the sarcous element proportionately diminished in bulk .
It is hardly possible that the resemblance of these changes to those which occur in the protoplasm of an amoeboid jj cell is merely accidental\#151 ; difficult not to believe that the perforated sarcous substance is the spongioplasmic " oecoid , " the clear labile substance the hyaloplasmic " zooid .
" This conception of the structure and mode of activity of the amoeboid cell and of muscle , whilst bringing them under exactly the i same category , and thus tending to simplify our ideas regarding con-s tractile phenomena , may also serve to aid in the elucidation of certain questions in connection with those phenomena which have long j presented difficulties to the physiologist and pharmacologist .
For example , with regard to the movements of amoeboid cells , the | question has been frequently discussed , and never satisfactorily I answered , whether we are to regard the withdrawal of the pseudo-i podia into the body of the cell as the condition of rest , and the protrusion of the pseudopodia as the condition of activity , or vice | versa .
Viewed by the light of the above observations , it is clear that neither state is to be regarded as a resting condition ; both are mani-i testations of activity ; both are produced by flowing of the hyaloplasm .
Similarly , in the case of muscle , the passage from the contracted to j the extended condition can no longer , as is so frequently assumed , be | looked upon as a merely passive change of state , but must be j regarded , no less than in the case of the passage from the extended to j lo contracted condition , as produced by flowing of hyaloplasm .
In the one case this flows into pores of the spongioplasm\#151 ; this is the condition called contraction , and ordinarily regarded as the active state ; in the other case there is a flowing of the hyaloplasm out 't pores of the spongioplasm , by which movement the condition of extension is determined .
That different chemical and electrical changes accompany , perhaps determine , these different directions of movement is well known .
It is also known that the process of exten-jj s'on Is influenced by drugs , independently of the action they may exert upon that of contraction ( Brunton , Ringer ) .
But whether the chemical and electrical changes , and those produced by drugs , occur in the hyaloplasm , or in the spongioplasm , or in both substances , is a .
question which , as in the analogous case of the amoeboid cell , cannot 198 On the Structure of Amoeboid Protoplasm , Sfc .
[ Feb.ji at present be decided .
The same remark may be made with respect to the question of active participation by the spongioplasm in the pro duction of the movements of the hyaloplasm .
It is , however , ( Jk certain from the observation of the movements of the hyaloplasm of pseudopodia , which may actively flow in different directions , even when far removed from the spongioplasm , that it is the hyaloplasm which is to be regarded as the physically active part of protoplasm and therefore also presumably of muscular substance .
Lastly , there is another form of protoplasmic activity , viz. , ciliary motion , which cannot be left out of consideration in any attempt to explain the manner in which the contractile manifestations of protoplasm are produced .
On this matter I have no new facts to record and the suggestion therefore that I have to make must be understood to be a purely theoretical deduction from analogy , and not based upon actual observation .
At the same time it does not , so far as I know , stand in contradiction to any known fact .
The suggestion is briefly this:\#151 ; If we suppose that a cilium is a hollow curved extension of the cell , occupied by hyaloplasm , and invested by a delicate elastic membrane , then it must follow that if there be a rhythmic flowing of hyaloplasm from the body of the cell , into and out of the cilium , an alternate extension and flexion of that process would thereby be brought about .
The movement would in fact be produced by an action which would be practically the same as that by which the amoeboid movements of cells and the contraction and extension of muscle are probably effected .
The same result might be got , supposing the cilium to be a straight and not a curved extension of the cell , if the enveloping membrane were thicker ( or otherwise less extensible ) along one side than along the other .
This assumption would also enable one better to account for the spiral direction of the movement of certain cilia ; for this form of movement would be produced if the line of lessened extensibility in them were to pass in a corkscrew fashion along the cilium in place of straight along one side , as might be assumed for ordinary cilia .

