424 On Voges and Proskauers Reaction for Certain Bacteria .
By Arthur Harden , D.Sc .
, Ph. I ) .
( Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received December 5 , 1905 , \#151 ; Read February 1 , 1906 .
) ( From the Chemical Laboratory Lister Institute .
) In 1898 Yoges and Proskauer* described a new colour reaction which they had observed in the case of a bacillus , isolated by Voges and grown in a medium containing sugar .
When potash was added and the tube allowed to stand for 24 hours or longer at room temperature , a beautiful fluorescent colour , somewhat similar to that of a dilute alcoholic solution of eosin , formed in the culture fluid , particularly at the open end of the tube exposed to the air .
The reaction was found to be specific to the bacillus in question , and was not given by any of the other organisms isolated in the course of the investigation upon which they were engaged , nor by the B. coli communis , so that it afforded a most valuable means of differentiation for the inhabitants of the intestine .
Durliamf and How+ have also employed this reaction for the discrimination of intestinal bacteria , and MacConkey , S in confirmation of Durham , has found that out of a large number of bacteria which were tested only three gave the reaction , these being B. aerogenes ( Escherieh ) , B. capsid af/ us ( Pfeiffer ) , and B. cloacce ( Jordan ) .
The examination of the products formed by lactis aerogenes from glucose|| has shown that acetylmethylcarbinol , CH3.CO .
CH(OH).CH3 , and 2-3-butyleneglycol , CH3.CH(OH).CH(OH).CH3 , are both present in the medium in which this has been cultivated in the presence of glucose .
The acetylmethylcarbinol has not as yet been isolated in the pure state , but is present in the aqueous distillate obtained by distilling the culture medium .
This distillate and the glycol were , therefore , treated with caustic potash in order to ascertain whether either of them was the cause of the reaction just described .
Neither of these substances produces the characteristic fluorescent coloration with potash alone , but when peptone water is also added , acetylmethylcarbinol gives the reaction after standing for about 24 hours , whilst the glycol does not react in this way even on standing .
The coloration was produced in the characteristic manner described by * ' Zeitsclir .
f. Hyg .
, ' 1898 , vol. 28 , p. 20 .
+ ' Journ. of Experimental Medicine , ' 1900\#151 ; 1901 , p- 354 .
+ ' Centralbl .
f. Bakter .
, ' 1904 , vol. 36 , p. 484 .
S 'Journ .
of Hyg .
, ' 1905 , vol. 5 , 349 .
|| Harden and Walpole .
On Voges and Proskauer 's Reaction for Certain Bacteria .
425 Voges and Proskauer , commencing at the open end of the tube exposed to the air .
This suggests oxidation as a factor in the phenomenon , and as acetylmethylcarbinol is very readily converted by oxidation into diacetyl , CH3.CO .
CO.CH3 , this substance was tested .
Diacetyl yields the fluorescent red coloration with peptone water and caustic potash in a few minutes , and by its aid a much greater depth of colour can be obtained than that observed with bacterial cultures . .
Yoges and Proskauer 's reaction , therefore , appears to be due to acetylmethylcarbinol , which is formed by the action of the bacteria on the glucose of the medium .
In the presence of potash and air this is oxidised to diacetyl , which then reacts with some constituent of the peptone water .
That diacetyl is the active substance and not ^-xyloquinone , CaHsC^CHs^ , which is readily formed from it by the action of alkalis , is shown by the fact that if the diacetyl be allowed to stand for some time with potash solution , and peptone water be then added , no reaction occurs .
B. cloacae ( Jordan ) , which gives Voges and Proskauer 's reaction , was also found to yield acetylmethylcarbinol , which was recognised by its power of reducing Fehling 's solution in the cold and of yielding the characteristic phenylosazone of diacetyl with phenylhydrazine .
Acetylmethylcarbinol has also been observed as a product of the action of certain other bacteria on glucose .
Thus , Grimbert* found that it is produced by B. tartricus , and Desmotsf that it is also formed by the various bacilli of the mesentericus group and by B. and Tyrothrix tenuis .
These bacteria should , therefore , give Yoges and Proskauer 's reaction , and , as a matter of fact , B. mesentericus fuscus , the only one which has so far been examined , gives the reaction quite characteristically when grown in peptone water containing 2 per cent , of glucose .
A number of other bacteria are being examined and attempts are also being made to ascertain what constituent of the peptone water it is that reacts with the diacetyl .
* 'Compt .
Rend .
, ' 1901 , vol. 132 , p. 706 .
+ 'Compt .
Rend .
, ' 1904 , vol. 138 , p. 581 .

