The reading of a paper , entitled , " Memoir on a portion of the Lower Jaw of an Iguanodon , and other Saurian Remains discovered in the strata of Tilgate Forest , in Sussex .
, , By Gideon Algernon Mantell , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
When the author communicated to the Royal Society , in the year 1825 , a notice on the teeth of an unknown herbivorous reptile , found in the limestone of Tilgate Forest , in Sussex , he was in hopes of discovering the jaws , with the teeth attached to it , of the same fossil animal , which might either confirm or modify the inferences he had been led to deduce from an examination of the detached teeth .
He was , however , disappointed in the object of his search until lately , when he has been fortunate enough to discover a portion of the lower jaw of a young individual , in which the fangs of many teeth , and the germs of several of the supplementary teeth , are preserved .
The present paper is occupied with a minute and circumstantial description of these specimens , and an elaborate inquiry into the osteological characters and relations presented by the extinct animals to which they belonged , as compared with existing species of Saurian reptiles ; the whole being illustrated by numerous drawings .
The comparison here instituted furnishes apparently conclusive proof that the fossil thus discovered is a portion of the lower jaw of a reptile of the Lacertine family , belonging to a genus nearly allied to the Iguana .
From the peculiar structure and condition of the teeth it appears evident that the Iguanodon was herbivorous ; and from the form of the bones of the extremities it may be inferred that it was enabled , by its long , slender , prehensile fore-feet , armed with hooked claws , and supported by its enormous hinder limbs , to pull down and feed on the foliage and trunks of the arborescent ferns , constituting the flora of that country , of which this colossal reptile appears to have been the principal inhabitant .
Some particulars are added respecting various other fossil bones found in Tilgate Forest , and in particular those of the Hyl &amp; osaurus , or Wealden Lizard ( of which genus the author discovered the re ?
mains of three individuals ) , and of several other reptiles , as the Megalosaurus , Plesiosaurus , and several species of Steneosaurus , Pterodactylus , and other Chelonia , as also one or more species of a bird allied to the Heron .
All these specimens are now deposited in the British Museum .

