880 .
] On the Exploration of Caves of Borneo .
renis The latter , however , are not without a varied Fauna of their n Besides the infinite hosts of swifts ( ) and bats of many Icies which throng their recesses , owls , and occasionally hawks , are jet with .
Several kinds of snakes , lizards ( and sh and Crustacea also occur , as well as spiders , crickets , and myna-0da ( Julidce , Geophilus ?
Polydesmus ?
)The recent guano often warms with a slender yellow Bulimus .
Pave 316 .
" No tradition is extant."\#151 ; It has been suggested that these uperficial human remains are the remains of the Chinese who perished n the insurrection in Sarawak ( 1857 ) .
Apart from the decayed coalition of the bones , this idea is inadmissible for many reasons .
It is sufficient to mention the general identity of the remains at Niah in Brunei territory ( where there is no reason to suppose any Chinese were ever located ) with those of Ahup in Sarawak .
Page 316 .
" No tribe makes habitual use of caves."\#151 ; A very wild tribe of Punans , called by the natives Rock Punans , who inhabit the Treat Tibang Mountain at the source of the Rejang River , are popularly reported to live in caves , being so uncivilised as not yet to have learnt to construct artificial shelters .
The head of the Rejang has never been visited by a European , so that this report is probably incorrect .
Mr. Hugh B. Low , whose knowledge of the tribes of northwest Borneo is unequalled , writes in answer to my inquiries as follows :_ " I do not know of any tribe that buries its dead in caves .
Tana Nipa , of Tatan , was buried in a cave , but this was to secure him from his Dyak neighbours .
The Orang Kaya Sahgieng expressed a dying wish that he might be buried in Lubang Danan in Ba Koiat , but jt was only in order that he might gain an additional claim to the ca\ e in question , the ownership of which was disputed .
The ' tailed men ' between Mandai and Melani are said to live in caves .
" Note on the Collection of Bones from Caves in Borneo , le-ferred to in Mr. Everett 's Report on the * Exploration ot the Bornean Caves in 1878\#151 ; 9 .
' " By George Busk , I .R.b .
, Y.P. Anth .
Inst. With the exception of portions of the lower jaw of a small pig , and two or three detached teeth of the same animal , and some fragments of pottery , the collection is composed entirely of human remains .
The bones are all more or less fragmentary and vary very much in condition , some appearing as if they had lain on the surface of the ground , exposed to the weather , whilst others are partially encrusted with a friable , argillaceo-calcareous stalagmitic deposit , admitting of very easy removal .
None of the bones , though some are dry and fragile , appear to be of any antiquity , and none adhere to the tongue .
320 Messrs. A. H. Everett , J. Evans , and G. Busk .
[ Apr. \lt ; The remains are those of at least five individuals , differing a goo deal in age and probably of both sexes , but this is not certain .
The include\#151 ; 1 .
Eleven or twelve portions of the skull , amongst which are fou more or less perfect temporals , of which three belong to the right sicU These bones are all distinguished by the large size of the mastoid pro cess ; in one only does any portion of the zygoma remain , which is o slender conformation .
The only other specimens belonging to th .
cranium are\#151 ; 1 .
The face , with a large part of the forehead and tht orbits complete .
This fragment is remarkable for the great com parative width across the malar region , which amounts to about | inches , whilst the vertical length of the face from the fronto-nasa !
suture to the alveolar border is scarcely 2\#163 ; inches .
The orbits havi a transverse diameter of l"-5 , and a vertical of l"-25 , giving aJ orbital index of -83 .
The nose measures l"-8 X l " ' !
, affording a nasal index of '61 .
The frontal overhangs the nasals very much , and the frontal sinuses are well developed , but the orbital border is not thick-ened .
The alveolar arch is almost perfectly semicircular and very wide .
The bone is further remarkable for the great apparent depth of the sphenoidal part of the temporal fossa , owing to the sudden bulging of the squamosal .
The specimen on the whole presents an exaggerated Malay aspect .
2 .
Another and the most considerable of the cranial specimens ; consists ot the greater portion of a calvaria .
The entire face is wanting below the frontal border of the orbits ; as is also nearly the whole of the right side of the skull .
The calvaria is well formed and evenly arched ; the forehead upright and rounded .
In the vertical view* ( [ norma verticalis ) the outline forms a regular broad oval .
The sutures are all open and for the most part deeply serrated .
The chief points to be noticed besides the above are ( a ) the enormous size of the mastoid process , in a skull otherwise it may be said of delicate conformation ; and ( 6 ) the extraordinary condition of the foramen magnum , the border of which is so much thickened and elevated , as at first sight to convey the impression that the atlas was anchylosed to the occipital .
The bone in the surrounding part of the surface is extremely thin and apparently atrophied , but there is otherwise no sign of disease .
From its imperfect condition this calvaria affords no distinctive characteristics , but in one respect it agrees with the facial specimen above described , viz. , in the remarkable bulging of the anterior part of the squamosal where it joins the alarsphenoid .
The longitudinal diameter of this calvaria is " \#151 ; its width 5'25 , and height 5'7 , the circumference being 20 inches .
The other bones of the skeleton are represented by\#151 ; 1 .
A clavicle of small size and delicate make , probably that of a female .
1880.1 On the Exploration of the Caves of Borneo .
821 | o Two or three fragments of the humerus , in one of which the medullary cavity is filled with root fibres .
And in its posterior aspect hear the lower end there are three or four transverse cuts of slight benth and done as it would seem from the chipped appearance by Chopping with a sharp metallic instrument .
There is also a deeper [ incision on the external condyloid ridge immediately above the conj|3f An entire sacrum and a portion of the left os mnominatum probably of the same individual .
F 4 .
A fragment of the right os innominatum belonging to another 5 .
Of bones belonging to the lower extremity , the collection includes portions of four thigh bones , one with the lower epiphysis naturally detached .
The tibia is represented by three specimens , none of which present anything worthy of remark .
The only bone belonging to the foot is a first metatarsal of small size .
From the above it will be seen that these bones present nothing of especial interest ; and with respect to the race to which they may have belonged , the information they afford is very meagre .
On this point all that can be said is that they may well have belonged to the Malay type , but there is also no apparent reason why they should not have been of Chinese origin .
What tends to afford some support to this supposition is the marked fulness or bulging of the squamosal in the sphenoidal fossa , to which I have called attention , and which , upon examination of the collection of crania in the Royal College of Surgeons , I find is presented by several among the Chinese crania in a more marked degree than in the other races to which my attention was directed .

