474 Mr. J. C. Ewart on the Life-History of [ June 20 , Experiment XIX .
April 4tlx , 1878 .
Guinea-pig weighing 1^ lb. Injected 4 centigrammes of cobra poison into leg .
4.1 p.m. Ligature applied immediately .
Permanganate of potash applied immediately .
4.5 p.m. Twitching .
4.10 " Dying .
4.13 , , Convulsion .
4.14 " Dead .
Experiment XX .
April 4th , 1878 .
Guinea-pig weighing 1 lb. 3.45 ' 20 " p.m. Injected f gr. = 4 centigrammes of cobra poison under skin of leg .
A ligature was applied round the leg in one minute , and in five minutes permanganate of potash was rubbed into an incision made over the site of injection .
3.52 p.m. Ligature cut .
3.53 , , Twitching violently ; leg paralysed .
3.55 " 3.57 " Dying .
3.58 " Dead\#151 ; less than 13 minutes .
VIII .
" The Life-History of Bacterium termo and Micrococcus , with further Observations on Bacillus .
" By J. COSSAR Ewart* M.D. Edin .
, University College , London .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received June 20 , 1878 .
[ Plate 10 .
] While recently studying the phases through which the now familiar organism Bacillus antliracis passes , my attention was often directed to two still more familiar organisms , Bacterium termo and Micrococcus .
Frequently from cultivations of Bacillus both rods , spores , and filaments disappeared , and in their place millions of Micrococci and the short-jointed rods of B. termo were found.* In the short rods of B. termo , which in the struggle for existence overcame the less active Bacilli , minute bright particles were often present .
These exactly resembled the Micrococci in the field around and between them , and were evidently the remains of spores out of which the rods had just been developed .
The presence of Micrococcus-like spores in the short rods * This disappearance of the one and appearance of the others accounts for early investigators believing that there was a continuity of development between Bacilli and septic organisms .
1878 .
] Bacterium termo and Micrococcus .
47 5 led me to conclude not only that B. termo had a life-history similar to that of Bacillus anthracis , but also that Billroth was probably right in believing that Micrococci were the spores of ordinary Bacteria .
I have already proved * that Bacillus , like B. subtilis , and the Bacillus found by Dr. Klein on animals suffering from pneumoenteritis ( pig typhoid ) , is , though rarely , an active organism , the motile phase appearing at irregular intervals ; that the protoplasm of the long filaments into which the rods lengthen divides into segments , which , either at once or after again dividing , condense into spores ; that the spores before germinating may divide into sporules , and that the new rod is not formed , as stated by Dr. Koch , f out of the gelatinous-looking envelope , but out of the spore itself\#151 ; the spore germinating , and pushing out a process from one of its ends , which carries along with it the thin capsule , converting it into the sheath of the rod .
Before attempting to compare the life-history of Bacterium termo with what we know of the life-history of Bacillus , it was necessary to have B. termo isolated from all other organisms .
After many failures , I was fortunate enough to find a cultivation in which the rods of B. termo were alone visible .
After keeping this cultivation under observation for some time , others were made by infecting fresh drops of humor aqueus , previously placed on absolutely clean covering-glasses , with as small a drop of the liquid as possible on the point of a needle .
The covering-glasses were inverted over " cells " made by fixing glass rings to ordinary slides by means of Brunswick black , the cells having been carefully washed immediately before use with absolute alcohol .
A thin layer of olive oil between the edge of the glass ring and the covering-glass prevented evaporation and the entrance of moisture and solid particles from the surrounding atmosphere .
In cultivations of B. termo prepared in this way , and kept at a temperature of 30 ' C. , I made out that , under certain conditions , the rods , instead of undergoing fissiparous division , lengthened info filaments , in which in due time spores appeared .
( Plate 10 .
Series V , h , f. ) The filaments were shorter than those of B. a , and they never showed any tendency to form a network or mycelium .
The spores were extremely small , bright , almost spherical bodies .
In from two to three days after their formation the spores escaped from the filaments , and either lay isolated near the centre or formed a zooglcea ( Series VI , K ) at the edge of the cultivation .
Having been free for some time , they germinated into short slender rods .
( Series V , b , c. ) The young rods did not at once lengthen into another generation of spore-bearing filaments , but , becoming active , they multiplied by transverse fission .
( Series V , d , e. ) The filaments packed full of spores often resembled " Micrococcus chains , " and only differed from filaments containing spores , which I * " Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Science , " April , 1878 .
f " Beitrage sir Biologie der Pflanzen , " II , 2 , 1876 .
2 i 2 Mr. J. C. Ewart on Life-History of [ June 20 , lately found in scum from the surface of sea-water by being motionless .
Those in the scum , notwithstanding their length and the number of spores in them , were moving freely about the field .
Having satisfied myself that , under certain conditions , the rods of B. termo lengthened into filaments , and that the spores formed in them when set free germinated into short rods , I next directed my attention to Micrococcus , in order , if possible , to make out whether it was a distinct organism , or whether it was simply a phase in the life-history of some common Bacterium , e.g. , Bacterium termo .
After making numerous preparations , I at last succeeded in getting a cultivation in which only Micrococci were present .
The cultivation was made by adding to a drop of humor aqueus from a fresh ox 's eye a minima ] quantity of pus from a newly opened abscess on the point of a calcined needle .
For three days there was no indication of organisms , but on the fourth , small moving particles were visible , which , when examined with a No. XII immersion ( Hartnack ) , were seen to be either round , oval , or dumbbell-shaped , and often in groups of two and four .
( Series VI , A long and careful study proved that the different forms were all phases of the same organism ; the oval forms became dumbbell-shaped , and then divided into two round bodies similar to , but smaller than , the sporules of Bacillus anthracis .
The two round bodies moved actively about till they separated from each other , when each became dumbbellshaped and divided as before .
Being apparently in a suitable medium and at a favourable temperature , they were extremely active and increased so rapidly that they soon formed a large milky spot in the centre of the cultivation liquid .
This cloud , when examined with a low power , was seen to dip well down into the fluid , thus corresponding to the plug of Bacteria found by Professor Tyndall in several of his test-tubes.* Though kept under observation for three weeks , not one of the round or oval organisms present ever germinated into a rod .
During the fourth week three fresh drops of humor aqueus were infected with the smallest possible number of Micrococci from the above preparation ; also several flasks containing a sterilized turnip infusion .
Both in the aqueous humour preparations and in the turnip infusion they rapidly increased , but none of them germinated into rods .
This experiment was again repeated with a like result .
Hence , having failed to find Micrococcus developing into Bacterial rods , it may , in the meantime , * be inferred that it is a distinct form : or just as Torula may be an arrested phase of some Penicillium-like organism , so may Micrococcus be the spore of a Bacterium which has either altogether lost its power to germinate , or can only do so under very peculiar conditions .
That Micrococcus closely resembles Torula will be at once apparent .
* " Phil. Trans. , " 1877 .
1878.1 Bacterium termo and Micrococcus .
477 Effects of Desiccation and of different Temperatures on Bacterium termo and Micrococcus .
If the oil he removed by blotting paper from between the glass ring and the covering-glass of a preparation made as above described , or if the covering-glass be fractured without being displaced , the cultivation liquid rapidly evaporates , and the remains of what a few minutes before were active organisms are in great part left adhering to the under surface of the covering-glass .
Preparations treated in this way may be either subjected to high or low temperatures ; or , when protected by a glass cap , may be left in the ordinary atmosphere .
The result of desiccation was ascertained by infecting flasks containing sterilized organic infusions .
Such flasks infected with rods desiccated at 20 ' C. remain sterile , but flasks infected with desiccated spores soon teem with Bacteria , and flasks infected with desiccated Micrococci soon teem with round , oval , and dumbbell-shaped organisms , leading to the conclusion that desiccation destroys Bacterial rods ; but that , though continued for weeks , it has no influence on spores or Micrococci .
If Micrococci and the spores of B. termo are not destroyed by desiccation in a small protected atmosphere , it may be further inferred that they retain their viability when dried in the ordinary atmosphere , and , being extremely small and light , that after they are dry they will float about along with other solid particles in disturbed , and settle down in quiet , atmospheres , without undergoing any change until they find themselves in a medium which admits of their growth and development .
In all probability desiccation destroys the oval and dumbbell-shaped forms of Micrococcus , the round spore-like forms only retaining their vitality .
That spores exist in our ordinary atmosphere may be easily proved by placing sterile organic infusions in different parts of a building .
In such a building as University College a considerable number of different organisms may be found .
In cold rooms the infusions may remain sterile for a considerable time , but generally a scum soon appears on the surface , which , on examination , may contain , besides Bacteria , fungi , monads , and other low forms from both the animal and vegetable kingdom .
However readily the unprotected rods of Bacteria are destroyed when desiccated at a temperature of 30 ' C. , they are not destroyed in the substance of a spleen or kidney when the temperature is raised to 40 ' C. Those in the outer part of the dried portion of spleen or kidney are destroyed , but those in the centre are protected by the hard outer cake , not only because this hard shell tends to keep the heat from them , but especially because it tends to prevent complete desiccation .
Effects of Ebullition .
Along with Dr. Burdon Sanderson , * I have shown that the spores * " Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Science , " April , 1878 .
478 Mr. J. C. Ewart on the Life-History of [ June 20 , of B. anthracis are destroyed when the fluid they are suspended in is kept for a few minutes at the point of ebullition .
The same is true of B. termo and Micrococcus .
On the other hand , when they are subjected to a temperature of 110 ' C. in a dry state they are not destroyed ; they are rendered inactive , however , by a temperature of 120\#174 ; C. The difference between the effects of moist and dry heat is probably owing to the gelatinous capsules of the spores and Micrococci giving way , and thus allowing the boiling fluid to come into direct contact with the unprotected central protoplasm.- Further Observations on Bacillus .
On the surface of sea water , containing the remains of seaweeds , Pedicellinse and skeleton shrimps , brought from Roscoff by Mr. Geddes last April , a few patches of scum appeared which , on examination , were found to be made up of active and resting Bacilli , exactly rGSGintlni^ xn sxze and form ^Bacillus Day by day the small pellucid areas increased until the whole surface of the water ( about 12 centimetres in diameter ) was completely covered with a thick opaque scum , which , after remaining entire for seven days , gave way in the middle , and soon sank to the bottom , remaining there in a torn and broken condition .
The minute spots which first appeared were almost entirely made up of active Bacilli , rapidly multiplying by transverse fission .
As the patches increased in size , the Bacilli either formed zooglcea , or lengthened into filaments .
The process of lengthening was , as compared with B. anthracis , when cultivated on the warm stage , a remarkably slow one , and often the filaments which with the No. VIII Hartnack were apparently 3 or 4 centimetres in length , moved in a languid way amongst the active Bacilli .
Having increased to about forty times the length of the original rod , the protoplasm divided and condensed into spores , the steps of the process being similar to those already described in B. anthracis.* The spores next escaped from the filaments , and either formed zoogloea , or germinated into another generation of rods .
This increase of the rods by simple division , and by spore formation , continued until the whole of the surface of the water was covered by the scum .
On examination , six days after the scum sank to the bottom , an immense zoogloea was found made up of a relatively small number of quiescent rods , embedded in a thick transparent matrix ( Series I , But of especial interest were a considerable number of large and small granular masses , made up of minute round particles , the smaller ones resembling the " cell families " of Ascococcus , f and the larger ones * Loc .
cit. + Colin , " Beit , zur Biol , der Pflanzen .
" Bacterium termo and Micrococcus .
1878 .
] the peach-coloured granular disks figured by Lankester from old cultivations of Bacterium rubescens , in which " the nourishment had dwindled to its very smallest limit .
" In the zooglcea all the Bacilli were quiescent , and it is important to * observe that in none of them was there any appearance of division ; but around the edge ( Series I , k ) some were in active motion , whether entering or leaving the motile stage I do not know .
The close resemblance of these masses , both in form and in time of appearance to the " macroplasts " of Lankester , * led me to watch their development .
First , the spore divided into four sporules quite as in Bacillus anthracis , f but these sporules again divided forming a granular mass ( Series IV , d , e ) , division and growth going on simultaneously till a large very finely granular sphere was produced .
( Series IV , g. ' ) When one of the large spheres was broken up , round particles ( Series IV , h ) spread far and wide over the field .
These particles , when placed in a fresh drop of sea water enlarged ( Series IV , i ) and germinated into rods .
( Series IV , j. ) If then a single minute spore is thus capable of pi'oducing innumerable still more minute germs , and if these , as all experiment tends to show , resist desiccation at ordinary temperatures , Professor Huxley 's dictum may unhesitatingly be repeated and endorsed , that , considering the lightness of Bacterium germs , and the wide diffusion of the organisms which produce them , it is impossible to conceive that they .
should not be suspended in the atmosphere in myriads .
Morphological Considerations .
Various investigators , notably Huxley and Lankester , have long ago asserted the Protean nature of , and the accompanying plate ( exclusively compiled from actual observation ) , is an attempt to summarise and define what we at present know of the phases through which three of these forms , , Bacterium , and Micros coccus may pass .
Such a diagrammatic representation may be tne more useful , seeing that at present our knowledge is scattered through - many papers .
Series I represents the most common phases through which Bacillus may pass .
The spore germinates into a rod , this divides , the portions , if at rest , either falling apart or forming a jointed filament ( / ) .
The motile stage may be assumed , during which division also goes on ( \lt ; / ) , zigzag forms being produced which have often been mistaken for Vibriones .
While division is going on , the development of the cilia is often beautifully seen with a high immersion .
First , the cellulose * " Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Science , " vol. xvii , New Series , p. 27 , Plate III .
t Loc .
cit. 480 On Bacterium termo and Micrococcus .
[ June 20 , wall gives way , and the segments as they separate slowly draw out a thin viscous thread of protoplasm .
One segment generally fixes itself to the cover glass , while the other wriggles about in all directions , moving and resting by turns , until the almost invisible thread gives way in the middle so as to form two cilia .
Thus the first * formed motile rods should only have one cilium , and such are occasionally seen , but are probably soon supplanted by their more active biciliate progeny .
After being alternately at rest and in motion for * an indefinite period , they may rise to the surface of the fluid to form a zooglcea ( j ) and after some time again become motile .
In Series II the spore immediately after germinating develops into a long filament or unbranched hypha , which interweaves with others to form a mycelium .
The protoplasm of the filaments soon contracts into rows of " chlamydospores " ( / ) which either escape through the cellulose walls , or are set free by the disintegration of the hypha ( i j k ) .
When once free they may either form a zooglcea ( to ) or germinate immediately .
In Series III the spore divides into four sporules ( e ) , which , while separating , move very energetically .
This takes place when the nutritive fluid is becoming exhausted , the sporules not germinating until more nourishment is obtainable .
If fresh pabulum be not added the sporules may continue dividing ( Series IV ) so as to form large finely granular spheres ( e/ gr ) , compound masses resulting from the division of several adjacent spores .
These disintegrate , setting free numerous small round particles ( h ) which in suitable media enlarge and germinate ( J ) .
Leaving Bacillus , Series V shows the life-cycle of Bacterium termo .
\#166 ; The round spore germinates into a short rod ( \amp ; ) , which either divides into a chain ( e ) , or into separate rods , with resting and motile stages alternating ( / g~ ) , while the short rods may lengthen into delicate spore-bearing filaments ( J1 0* The thorough correspondence of all this with Series I and II of Bacillus is very obvious and suggestive .
Moreover , these spores ( j ) exactly resemble the Micrococcus represented below in Series VI .
Here the spore-like Micrococcus becomes dumbbell-shaped and divides into two ( c ) , which again divide , and so on indefinitely , a preparation of Micrococci kept for three months having shown no tendency to germinate into rods .
Resting and motile stages ( \lt ; / ) , chains ( / ) , and zooglcea ( Ji ) are often observed .
EXPLANATION OP THE PLATE .
Series I\#151 ; IV .
Phases in Life-History of Bacillus .
" .
V. " " Bacterium termo .
" VI .
" , , Micrococcus .

