Roots of the Leguminosece .
Abrus precatorius .
331 VI .
" The Tubercular Swellings on the Roots of the Legu-minoseas .
" By H. Marshall Ward , M.A. , F.L.S. , Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge , and Professor of Botany in the Forestry School , Royal Indian College , Cooper 's Hill .
Communicated by Prof. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received April 25 , 1887 .
( Preliminary Note .
) The author finds that the tubercles on the roots of the Legu-minoseaa are due to the action of a parasitic fungus .
Not only has he produced the tubercles by infection from without , but he has also found the infecting agent , and repeatedly seen and figured the infecting hypha passing down inside a root-hair and across the cortex of the root into the young tubercle .
Here the hyphal branches bud off yeast-like cells , which are extremely minute and numerous , and resemble bacteria at first sight ; they differ in their mode of multiplying by budding .
The action of these minute germ-like bodies causes the protoplasm of the cells of the root to assume plasmodium-like characters , and induces the flow of nutritive substances to these cells , and hypertrophy results .
On the decay of the tubercles , the germ-like bodies pass into the soil ( where they can always be found ) and infect other roots ; it is very probable they may be of extreme importance in agriculture .
VII .
" TheProteids of the Seeds of ( Jequirity ) .
" By Sidney Martin , M.D. Lond. , Fellow of University College , London , and Pathologist to the Victoria Park Hospital .
Communicated by Prof. E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. ( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Received April 21 , 1887 .
The proteids of the seeds of Abrns , the Indian liquorice , are important physiologically , because they have been shown ( by Warden and Waddell* ) to be possessed of poisonous properties .
To the poisonous product extracted by these observers the name " abrin " was given ; and though it was decided that abriu was closely allied to " plant-albumin , " yet no experiments were recorded to show whether the product was a mixture or a single proteid .
They obtained it by * ' The Non-bacillar Nature of Abrus-poison .
' By C. J. H. Warden and L. A. Waddell .
Calcutta , 1884 .
VOL. XLII .
2 B

