Some Experiments on a Solid Compound of Iodine and Oxygen , and on its Chemical Agencies .
By Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. Read April 20 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 203 .
] The author having observed that when a compound of iodine and chlorine was poured into an alkaline solution , there occurred a precipitate of iodine combined with oxygen , inferred that iodine would in all probability decompose the gaseous compound of oxygen and chlorine ; and upon trial found this presumption confirmed .
For when iodine is exposed to euchlorine at the common temperatures of the atmosphere , there is an immediate action , and the formation of two compounds , an orange-coloured liquid consisting of chlorine and iodine , and a white powder composed of iodine and oxygen .
By the application of a gentle heat , the former is made to rise in vapour , and the latter then remains as a semi-transparent white solid .
It has no smell , but a strong astringent sour taste .
Its specific gravity is such that it sinks in strong sulphuric acid .
By heat , rather below the temperature of boiling oil , this compound is separated into its two constituents , iodine , which crystallizes on the sides of the vessel , and a gas which is found to be pure oxygen. .
The proportions of these products are such , that the author conceives it to consist of one portion of iodine with five doses of oxygen .
This compound has such affinity for water that it slowly deliquesces in a moist atmosphere , but remains unaltered when the atmosphere is dry .
When dissolved in water , it first reddens and then destroys vegetable blues .
By distillation the water rises in vapour , and by moderate heat leaves the solid substance unaltered .
The solution acts upon all metals , even upon gold and platina , and decomposes many metallic solutions , occasioning insoluble precipitates from solutions of lead or mercury , which are oxides of those metals .
It also forms compounds with all the earths that have been tried , ( some of which are nearly insoluble in water , ) and with alkalies it forms the same compounds that have formerly been made by other means .
This oxide also combines with acids , forming compounds which crystallize .
These are intenselyacid to the taste , theyredden vegetable blues , and act strongly on all metals .
The effects of heat upon them are various , according to the different nature of the acid with which they are combined .
The nitrate and sulphate may be sublimed unaltered , but are liable to partial decomposition if too suddenly heated .
The oxalate is immediately and entirely decomposed by a gentle heat , and yields iodine and carbonic acid .
Since those acids which are obtained by the decomposition of such compounds are found to be in the state of hydrates , it is evident that water is a constituent of the crystalline products .
To the compounds of iodine , oxygen , and bases , the author formerly gave the name of oxyiodes ; to the new compound of iodine c and oxygen , he now gives the name of oxyiodine ; and to its comr pounds with water , oxyiodicacid .
To this same compound M. GayLussac has given the name of iodic acid , and for the salts he uses the generic term iodates ; but to this the author objects , that hydriodic and chloriodic acids may each be as well entitled to the appellation of iodic acids as a generic name , and that the termination in at places those bodies , which he calls oxyiodes , in the common class of neutral salts , from which they differ in many respects ; while the term oxyiodes expresses more definitely the nature of a combination , which has the closest analogy with the bodies termed hyperoxymuriates .

