]\gt ; The Electric or Magnetic risation of a Thin Cylinder of Finite Len.qth by Uniform Field of Force .
By T. H. LOCK , , D.Sc .
, Fellow of St. John 's College , Lecturer in Applied Mathematics in College , Newcastle-onTyne .
( Communicated by Professor J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received November 26 , \mdash ; Read December 13 , 1906 .
) S1 .
Introduction .
The problem to be considered is the calculation of the polarisation induced in a cylindrical rod of finite length by a field of force parallel to its axis .
The only formula previously given appears be that of Green*for the normal component of the polarity at the surface of the rod .
In the investigation the method of solution of the general problem of induction by series is used , and expressions are riven in SS 4 and 5 for the meau moment of the rod and the induction across the central section .
It is assumed that the susceptibility of the rod is independent of the applied force ; consequently formulae apply especially to a dielectric rod suspended in a field of electric force , this being , in fact , the purpose for which the calculations vere made .
In the case ong thin rods in a magnetic field it has been assumed that demagnetising factor might be taken as that of an ellipsoid inscribable in the rod ; but this neglects the fact of the non-uniformity of the within the rod , and various experimental ations have shown that the simple hypothesis is untenable .
In S7 these experimental results are discussed in relation to the formulae obtained in previous sections .
S2 .
Solution of the Problem .
Consider a body placed in a netic field whoss potential is , and let a constant denote the gnetic susceptibility of the substance .
Let be the potential of the induced magnetism and the total potential ; theu we have * Green , ' Mathematical Papers , ' p. 106 ; also Maxwell , 'Electricity and Magnetism ' vol. 2 , S 439 .
Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Electric or Magnetic [ Nov. 26 , The components of the intensity of magnetisation I at any poinb are given by If be the inward-drawn at the surface of the body , the problem to be solved in finding may be expressed in the equation where the integral extends over the surface of the body .
The exact solution of this problem can only be found in a limited number of cases , as , for example , when the surface of the body is an ellipsoid .
method of approximating to a solution was give by Beer , has been further developed by Neumann , and Wassmuth .
S The method may be regarded physically as one of successive superpositions in the manner of Murphy Suppose , as a first approximation , that the potential produces an induction equal ; then the distribution will have a potential , which may in its turn be supposed to induce a distribution I2 , and so on .
The total induction will be by the sum of the series I ; and the success of the method depends upon the convergency of this series .
Defining a series of functions by the relations ; ; and so on , ( 2 ) ) the first form of series for the induced potential , given by Beer , was ( 3 ) But even if the intermediary potentials decrease in magnitude , as in most practical cases , this series for is only for a limited ange of values for .
Other forms of series have been which include Beer 's series , but give a wider range of ency ; two such series given by Riecke and Neumann are equivalent and are expressed in terms of the functions by where * Beer , ' Elektricitat und Magnetismus , ' p. 155 .
C. Neumann , ' Das logarithm .
Potential , ' p. 248 .
Riecke , ' Wied .
vol. 13 , p. 466 , 1881 .
S Wassmuth , ' Wied .
Ann vol. , p. 367 , 1894 .
Murphy , Electricity , ' p. 93 , 1833 .
1906 .
] of a Thin Cylinder .
33 This series is certainly convergent for all practical cases in which the intermediary potentials form a decreasing series , for instance , in the case of an ellipsoid placed in a uniform field parallel to an axis ; for then we find ; Hx ; ; ; where is the usual constant associated with an ellipsoid and is less than 4 the functions for series ( 4 ) we obtain ; ; , etc. Hence we have But this series is convergent for all values of , and in fact gives the known exact solution We shall use , then , the series ( 4 ) in the following work , in which we consider the case of a long rod in a uniform field .
S3 .
Series for a Finite Rod .
We shall consider the case of a cylindrical rod of length 2 , with flat circular ends of radius ; we Suppose the rod placed in a uniform field parallel to its axis , which we take as the axis of ; then we have Our object is to calculate the functions , defined in ( 2 ) .
Cf .
Riecke , loc. cit. , p. 481 .
VOL. LXXIX.\mdash ; A. Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Electric or Magnetic [ Nov. 26 , Using cylindrical co-ordinates , we have in eneral ( 6 ) Also the element of surface is equal to , where is equal to or according as the point is on the curved side or a flat end of the rod ; and putting we have , ( 7 ) where the integral with respect to extends over the path ABCD , and the upper or lower sign is taken in the exponential according as is negative or positive .
Thus we find .
( 8 ) From symmetry in the case under consideration , this reduces to .
( 9 ) Thus at any in the evaluation of the successive potentials , is expressed as the.potential of a surface distribution due to ; the first integral in ( 9 ) gives the part due to the fiat ends of the rod and the other two integrals to the curved sides .
The can be deduced from ( 9 ) , or obtained directly as the potential of uniformly charged circular discs situated at the ends of the rod .
1906 .
] of a Thin Cylinder .
Using the relation we obtain .
( 10 ) S4 .
Calculation of the Total of the Rod .
The netisation point equal where is the total potential , and the moment of the rod can be calculated by considering the normal component of the polarisation over the surface of the rod .
Writing for the total moment , we have , ( 11 ) where the first integral gives the part due to the ends of the rod , and the second that due to the sides .
Now is iven in terms of and the intermediary potentials to the series given in ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) ; thus from ( 11 ) we find that it is required to evaluate expressions of the form .
( 12 ) We shall consider these expressions as far as , and obtain the important ternls in their expansions in powers of , where is the ratio of the of the rod to its diameter , and is assumed to be large .
since we have .
( 13 ) rther , from the value of given in ( 10 ) we have .
( 14 ) If in the second part we perform the integration with respect to , and put for , we find that ( 14 ) reduces to .
( 15 ) Now we have Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Electric or lVIagnetic [ Nov. 26 , Also , since is large , the important terms of the second integral are obtained by substituting the value of the Bessel function for small values of the argument ; thus as far as the term we have Hence to the same order we have .
Now we have to evaluate U2 in a similar manner ; we have from the general expression given in ( 9 ) , And , similarly , from ( 9 ) we have It may be noted that if the intermediary potentials be regarded as due to successive surface distributions , then the equations ( 18 ) and ( 19 ) are .
examples of general relations between consecutive surface densities .
Using the values of ( 18 ) and ( 19 ) , we have .
( 20 ) 1906 .
] Potarisation of Thin Cylinder .
Using the formul we find that ( 20 ) reduces to .
( 21 ) We substitute now for from ( 10 ) and write ; ; ; ; Hence we obtain .
( 22 ) The first two terms give the following : Also , in the third term of ( 22 ) we perform the integration with respect to ; then in all the terms of we apply the previous method of approximation , that is , we consider large and substitute the lower terms of the expansions of the Bessel functions for small values of the ument .
also the relation and keeping to the order in which the parts of are iven above , the approximation indicated gives , to the order Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Electric or .
[ Nov. 26 , .
( 23 ) Comparing with given in ( 17 ) , we see that they both begin with a term of the same order ; but we have .
( 24 ) Returning now to the series and ( 4 ) for the induced potential , we see that in calculating the total moment of the rod in this manner it is of advantage to use the series Then , if we denote by the mean moment per unit volume obtained by calculating the moment of the whole bar , we have from ( 13 ) , ( 17 ) , and ( 24)\mdash ; as far as the order indicated\mdash ; S5 .
The Mean Induction through Section .
Another quantity which we require to calculate is the mean polarisation over the central transverse section of the bar ; if this be denoted by we have where To evaluate the contributions made by and , we have from ( 10 ) , to the order indicated , using previous method of approximation .
1906 .
] of Thin Cylinde From the general expression in ( 9 ) we have given in the form .
( 28 ) Hence we have .
( 29 ) The mean value of this taken over the circle , is given by .
( 30 ) We proceed to evaluate these integrals for by substituting the expansions of the functions as before ; then the integral in becomes , to the required order , .
( 31 ) The second integral in ( 30 ) is equivalent to Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Electric or Magnetic [ Nov. 26 , Substituting values of the Bessel functions of or , or of both , according to the exponential term , this reduces to .
( 32 ) Adding this to the part given in ( 31 ) , we see that the mean value of over the central section begins with a term , while the mean value of begins with a term of the order Then , substituting in ( 26 ) the values calculated above , we have , as far as the order shown , .
( 33 ) S6 .
Application to Polarisation .
If an ellipsoid of specific inductive capacity is placed in a uniform electric field , it is known that the field within the ellipsoid is uniform , and the polarisation at any point is given by a formula ( H-NI ) , .
( 34 ) The factor is a numerical factor independent of I , and can be calculated theoretica ] lie ; for a prolate spheroid , of which is the ratio of the longer to the shorter axis , we have , ( 35 ) the axis of revolution being along the direction of the field .
Also , for an infinite rod of circular section , is zero for a uniform field parallel to the axis of the cylinder , and is equal to 2 for a field at right angles to the axis .
In the case of a rod of finite length placed in a uniform field , there is no longer uniformity of the field within the rod , but as we suppose the specific inductive capacity to be independent of the field , we have still an equation of the form ( 34 ) .
For a field parallel to the axis of the rod , we have from ( 25 ) to the first order of , the ratio of diameter to length , .
( 36 ) For a field at right angles to the axis we may still take to be equal to 2 .
Now , in determinations of the specific inductive capacity of a dielectric in the form of a cylindrical rod , it is necessary to measure the couple 1906 .
] Polarisation of Thin required to keep the rod at a given angle to the direction of the external field .
If we put for the volume of the rod and use the values of obtained above , we have Couple on rod , ( 37 ) where S7 .
Dmagnetising Factor of a Rod .
When the problem is one of magnetic induction , it is clear that the previous results only ] an approximation to a solution ; for , since the field is not uniform within the rod , it follows that the magnetic permeability varies along the rod , thus complicatin the problem to be solved .
In fact , the fnetising force will not be expressible in the NI , where is a numerical factor independent of I. On the supposition that there is such a constant , at least approximately , for long thin rods , Du Bois*made a comparison between the values of for ovoids and cylindrical rods of the same dimension-ratio } .
; the factors for the rods were calculated from experiments by Ewing for the longer rods and by Tanakadate for the shorter ones .
It was pointed out by Maun that in the former experiments ballistic nlethods were used , but in the latter netometric methods .
Consequently tho quantities measured were those denoted by and above ; and the deduced methods will , general , different , be denoted by and , being the magnetometric and ballistic values of the tisation factor .
From the series given in ( 25 ) and we have , large values of , the approximate values .
( 38 ) further investigated the values of and for rods and , in particular , variation with the intensity of mftgnetisation ; the value of the netising force at the of the rod was found to } with the field , and then after a certain point to decrease rapidly .
Using the ballistic lnethod , LambS determined the induction sections taken at intervals along a bar , and was thus able to trace Bois , Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 46 , p. 496 , 1892 .
C. R. Manu , ' Physical Review , ' vol. 3 , p. 359 , 1895 .
Benedicks , 'Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 6 , , 1901 .
S C. G. Ln , ' Phil. Mag. ' vol. 48 , p. 262 , 1899 .
42 or qnetic Polarisation of Thin Cylinder .
showing the distribution of induction and force along the bar and the consequent effective distribution of magnetic permeability .
Searle and Bedford* investigated the demagnetising force the centre of a long cylindrical rod .
Determining the values of for increasing values of the external force , they found that increases at first more rapidly than , but after passing a maximum it descends to a minimum somewhat less than that value ; the latter result is interpreted as being due to hysteresis effects .
A quantity measured in several experiments was the ratio the effective length of the bar .
Using expressions and ( 33 ) above , we have approximately Wit , a rod for which , Benedicks found this ratio increased to at the highest value of used in the experiment .
Reviewing the experimental results , it appears that in the case of magnetic induction the facts of the non-uniformity of the force within the rod and the consequent variation of effective susceptibility are too important to be neglected ; hence , in this case , the calculations of the previous sections supply limiting values towards which the quantities approach as the magnetisation tends to saturation .
* Searle and Bedford , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 198 , p. 98 , 1902 .

