VII .
" On Stasis of the Blood , and Exudation .
" By RlCIHARD NoRRIS , Esq. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received August 28 , 1862 .
Confusion has been introduced into the question of stasis , as related to inflammation , by neglecting to discriminate between the various forms of stasis , of which there are four .
1 .
If the frog 's web be exposed to certain irritants ( e.q. chloroform ) , the arteries are so constricted that the heart-force is temporarily shut off from the capillaries , which become packed by the reflux of blood from the veins .
This form of stasis is dissipated immediately on the cessation of the arterial constriction .
The blueness of the extremities consequent upon exposure to cold is probably dependent on the same mechanism .
2 .
The second form of stasis depends upon such enfeeblement of the heart 's force as interferes with the due propulsion of blood into the extreme vessels .
It also disappears upon the re-establishment of a sufficient propulsive power .
3 .
The third form is that described by IE .
Weber as follows : ' , If a limb [ of a frog ] be strangulated , there arises in its web within four to eight hours , without any irritation being applied , a stasis which is identical with inflammatory stasis , except that after sixty hours ' duration it will be dissipated as soon as the circulation is set free .
" The removal of this stasis by the re-establishment of the circulation distinguishes it from inflammatory stasis , and shows its relation to the forms already described .
4 .
The fourth form of stasis is producible ( artificially ) by the application of irritants , and has for its specific characteristicsa .
It is readily induced when the heart-force is unimpaired and the blood-channels are free .
/ 3 .
It requires hours or even days for its dissipation , or it may even be irresolvable .
y. It presents under the microscope a homogeneous appearance , as if the vessels had been injected with a tinted size or gelatine .
The outlines of the corpuscles are undistinguishable .
I call this " homogeneous " or " inflammatory " stasis .
It is unnecessary to offer additional evidence upon the first characteristic , which is an accepted dogma .
The following experiment refers to the mode of resolution .
March 24th , 1861.-On examining the web of a frog which had been inflamed with tincture of iodine the day previously , I watched a vessel in which the homogeneous stasis existed , and observed the stasis to resolve in a peculiar manner .
A normal current , such as is usually seen in capillaries , was circulating in the direction from A to B ( fig. 1 , ) and impinging F Fig. 2 .
on the contents of the obn structedvessel C. The stagnation in the vessel C appeared to thaw as it were .
The corpuscles were not pushed onwards in the mass , but seemed to take on the appearance of the A impinging current , and the parts so reduced from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous condition did not appear to contain any great excess of corpuscles .
This action soon extended through the whole length of the vessel , and immediately this was consummated a perfect current set in as in fig. 2 .
At the extreme edge of another division of this web I noticed two stagnated loops as in fig. 3 .
The circula .
Fig. .
Fig. 4 .
B Fig. 5 .
tion around them was in full activity .
These I watched for more than an hour , and observed them to become gradually much lighter in colour , passing from a deep red to a pale orange .
The point of junction C retained its depth of tint much the longest .
All this time the contents of the vessels maintained perfectly their homogeneous character .
At length all at once the outlines of the corpuscles became visible as in fig. 4 , and the circulation was re-established .
In this case , as in the previous one , there was no pushing on before of a plug of adherent corpuscles , but a gradual permeation of the liquor sanguinis from the points A and B ( fig. 3 ) , with subsequent alteration of both the colour and disposition of the corpuscles .
Fig. 5 also shows the progressive resolution of homogeneous stasis in a capillary vessel .
November 14th , 1861.-I took a vigorous frog , and having observed that the circulation was healthy , placed a ligature around a limb .
On again observing I found the circulation arrested , but the corpuscles were very distinctly seen with --inch power , and floated about with facility when the web was touched .
I now applied to the web a small drop of chloroform , and , on again looking , found many of the capillaries had assumed the homogeneous condition .
These observations strongly impressed me with the view that homogeneous stasis depends upon a new condition of the corpuscles , and not upon their crowding .
The cause of homogeneous stasis appears to be the withdrawal of fluid from the capillaries , leading to a local modification of the liquor sanguinis , and consequently to the cohesion of the corpuscles with each other and the walls of the vessels , in obedience to the principles explained in my paper " On the Causes of various Phenomena of Attraction and Adhesion , as exhibited in Solid Bodies , Films , Vesicles , Liquid Globules , and Blood-corpuscles , " in the present Number of the 'Proceedings .
' It is true that homogeneous stasis may occur in vessels previously packed with corpuscles , and we then find that the homogeneously solidified portion is of a much redder colour than when it occurs in a part previously free ; in both cases irritation is essential to its production .
Again , corpuscular packing may arise as a secondary effect in consequence of the obstruction of the current by homogeneous stasis , the heart-force being unimpaired .
If the plug be pressed out of the cut extremity of a vessel obstructed by homogeneous stasis , we find the corpuscles adherent to each other ; some have burst ; we find also free nuclei .
In homogeneous stasis a certain quantity of colouring matter escapes from the corpuscles , and probably contributes to the appearance of homogeneity .
Stasis generally occurs first at the venous radicles , because here the vis a tergo is weaker .
Having attributed inflammatory stasis to a modification of the liquor sanguinis , it is incumbent on me to show how and why this modification occurs .
Whilst it must be admitted that the cellular elements of the tissues have the power of imbibing and utilizing fluid plasma when it is brought into immediate apposition to them , there is not convincing evidence that these elements exercise any positive educing force upon this fluid while it remains within the vessels .
Still less is there evidence that , of two cells situated the one nearer to , the other more remote from the vessel , the latter has any attractive power superior to that of the former , which , to secure its nutrition on the theory of positive attraction , it must have , for the plasma attracted by the nearer cell would remain in the possession of that cell till removed from it by a superior force .
The law of diosmosis suffices to explain the supply of fluid plasma to the cellular elements without recurrence to the hypothesis of a positive attractive force resident in the cells themselves .
It is impossible to doubt that such structures as capillaries are diosmotic .
The more braced the condition of the minute vessels the less diosmosis , and vice versed .
It is not during contraction of the minute vessels produced by irritants that stasis occurs , but during the relaxation consequent on such contraction , -a relaxation which must be attributed to exhaustion of their irritability by the stimulus applied .
This relaxation permits the diosmotic escape of fluid from the vessels , causing an inspissation of the plasma within them , and consequent adhesion of the corpuscles constituting inflammatory stasis .
This escape of fluid may be termed primary exudation .
The muscular paralysis in question is not necessarily connected with neural paralysis , since it is producible in parts which , though abounding in contractile elements , are without nervous tissue , as , for example , in the umbilical cord .
In fact the more completely the nervous influence is removed and destroyed the more sensitive does the muscular tissue become to irritants .
Neural paralysis does undoubtedly play a part in inflammation .
Whilst the nerve-influence is exercised over a part , it affords a protective influence which renders the contractile elements less sensitive to local irritants , and consequently less prone to that absolute muscular paralysis which precedes primary exudation .
But the neural paralysis does not necessarily involve absolute muscular paralysis , although it facilitates its production .
In corroboration of these views I may refer to the well-known results following the section of various nerves , e. g. the pneumogastric and the fifth .
This muscular paralysis is probably producible directly by musclesedatives , as it is indirectly by muscle-irritants .
Since diminished nerve-force produces hyperaemia , and since diminished nerve-force furnishes the conditions under which homogeneous , i. e. inflammatory , stasis is most prone to occur , we see why hypereemia and inflammation are so frequently conjoined .
The experiments of Claude Bernard on the sympathetic , while showing the connexion between neural paralysis and hyperwmia , also indicate that neither neural paralysis nor hyperaemia are convertible terms with inflammation .
A distinction is drawn between that diosmotic exudation which leads to homogeneous stasis , and that subsequent copious transudation of fluid which fills up the interstices of tissues or leaks into cavities .
If in a frog 's web homogeneous stasis has occurred in the venous radicles so as to completely prevent the passage of the blood into the veins , the current in the capillaries and supplying arteries might naturally be expected to be brought to a stand , as it certainly would be if the walls of the capillaries removed from the immediate seat of the obstruction were impervious ; but so far from this being the case , the blood brought to the part is seen to pass on in a perfectly regular manner without the slightest rebound .
This absence of rebound is an evidence that the liquor sanguinis is passing through the vascular parietes at the same rate it is being propelled into the obstructed vessels .
It is not till the capillaries become packed with corpuscles and the circulation is confined to the arterial trunk that any rebound after the ventricular contraction becomes apparent .
This rebound is the cause of throbbing in inflamed parts .
The views here briefly given seem to me to form a consistent theory , supported by experiment as far as the subject admits of experiment , in accordance with the phenomena of inflammation as observed in the warm-blooded animals .

