319 1891.1 0n the Structure and Development of Dentine .
As regards the principal effect , reduction of blood pressure , the activity ( extent of reduction ) of the various nitrites takes the following order when equal volumes are administered to animals by inhalation ( 1 ) secondary propyl ; ( 2 ) tertiary butyl ; ( 3 ) secondary butyl , ( 4 ) isobutyl , nearly equal ; ( 5 ) tertiary amyl ; ( 6 ) \#171 ; -amyl , ( 7 ) j8-amyl , nearly equal ; ( 8 ) methyl ; ( 9 ) butyl ; ( 10 ) ethyl ; ( 11 ) propyl .
The order is somewhat modified when the nitrites are given by intra-vascular injection .
" When the duration of the sub-normal pressure is considered , the order is nearly the reverse of that given above , the effect of methyl nitrite being the last , and that of secondary propyl nitrite one of the first , to .
disappear .
In contrasting the results of the measurement of pulse acceleration produced by these nitrites , it is noticed that their activity in this respect does not follow the same order as that in reducing blood pressure , the amyl nitrites in particular occupying a higher position in the table .
The causes of these differences will be considered in the second part of this paper , in conjunction with a discussion of the relation of the chemical constitution of the nitrites to the physiological effects now described , and also to those produced in striated muscle , a description of which will form part of the subsequent communication .
In order that the physiological data might be placed on an absolutely satisfactory basis for chemical discussion , we determined at the commencement of last year to repeat all the more important physiological experiments .
This necessitated the labour of preparing fresh specimens of the nitrites. .
The results of these confirmatory experiments have been in every respect satisfactory , since they differed in no important respect from those previously obtained .
The chemical part of this enquiry has been conducted in the Research Laboratory of the Pharmaceutical Society , in London , whilst the physiological experiments have been made in the Pharmacological Laboratory of the University of Aberdeen** ^ " Some Points in the Structure and Development of Dentine .
" By J. Howard Mummery .
Communicated by 0 .
S. Tomes , F.R.S. Received February 7 , 1891. .
( Abstract .
) The purpose of the present paper is to show that there are appear-aucea in dentine which suggest that it is formed by a connective tissue calcification , and that the process is more closely analogous to \#174 ; ormation of bone than has usually been supposed , he varied theories held as to the structure and development of On the Structure and Development of Dentine .
[ Mar. 5 , dentine are partly due to the difficulties met with in the investi\#153 ; *^ of this tissue , soft and hard parts having to he retained in\#174 ; ! ?
0 ?
natural relations to each other .
Decalcification of the dentine T acids has been resorted to , a mode of preparing microscopical obijlb for study which is open to many objections .
Sections cut to process recommended by Dr. L. A. Weil , of Munich , exhibit V natural relations of pulp and tooth without the necessity of resorti/ to decalcification .
Fresh specimens are fixed in sublimate , passed through gradually increasing strengths of spirit to absolute'alcohol and slowly impregnated with a solntion of desiccated balsam in chloroform , dried with more balsam over a water-bath , and cut down on a stone with water .
The present investigation was undertaken with the aid of this process , controlled by the examination of other specimens cut by the more ordinary methods .
Processes or bundles of fibres are seen , incorporated on the one side with the dentine , and on the other with the connective tissue stroma of the pulp ; some of the bundles give evidence of partial calcification , reminding one of similar appearances in the calcification of membrane bone .
Cells are seen included in the bundles and lym* parallel to their course ; these cells , it is concluded , form together with the odontoblasts the formative cells of the dentine , the calcification of which tissue should be looked upon as in part , at least , a secretion rather than a conversion process , the cells secreting a material which calcifies along the lines of and among the connective tissue fibres , the cells themselves not being converted into dentine matrix .
These appearances are seen in the rapidly forming dentine of a growing ooth , as well as in more fully developed specimens .
An examinatioi ot other Mammalian teeth reveals similar appearances .
The dentin , o the incisor of the Rat ( Mus decumanus ) shows with great distinct ness t e incorporation of the connective tissue fibres with the dentine an t ere is a marked striation of the dentine near the pulp cavity parallel with these fibres .
The ivory of the Elephant 's tusk show , the same relation of connective tissue to formed dentine .
Vase entine exhibits a very well defined connective tissue layer sir rounding the pulp .
This layer has hitherto been looked upon as consisting of odontoblasts , but this tissue shows no nuclei , and has the characters of a layer of flattened connective tissue fibres-a layer o nucleated cells in close apposition to the dentine , probably being tJi8 real odontoblasts of yaso-dentine .

