1903 .
] On the Evolution of the Proboscidea .
" On the Evolution of the Proboscidea .
" By C. W. Andrews , D.Sc .
Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , F.R.S. Received March 5 , \#151 ; Read March 26 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) Until the author 's recent discoveries of primitive Proboscidea in the Middle and Upper Eocene formations of the Fayum , Egypt , the oldest known members of this mammalian order were and Tetrabelodon angustidens , from the base of the Miocene in France .
The new Egyptian fossils not only reveal for the first time the early history of the order , but also provide more satisfactory material for the discussion of its evolution than has hitherto been available .
The most important changes in the Proboscidea occur in the skull , mandible , and dentition .
Owing to the increase in the size of the tusks and to the presence of the proboscis , the facial region of the skull becomes shortened , and at the same time the premaxillse become wider .
The presence of the proboscis also accounts for the position of the external nares .
The demand for a greater surface of attachment for the muscles supporting a skull rendered heavy by the tusks and trunk , is met by the great development of the diploe in certain of the cranial bones , resulting in the enormous expansion of the forwardly sloping occipital surface .
The maxillae become greatly enlarged concomitantly with the increase in the size and degree of hypselodonty of the molars .
At the same time the zygomatic arch becomes weaker and the jugal takes a smaller share in its composition .
The mandible is at first short and stout , with a massive symphysis .
Afterwards it becomes more and more elongated as the stature of the animals increases ; and this elongation is for the most part effected by the lengthening of the symphysial region , though the backward rotation of the ascending ramus tends to the same end .
The prolongation of the mandible beyond the premaxillae must have been covered by a proboscis-like structure composed of the upper lip and nose , probably more or less prehensile at its extremity .
The lengthening of the mandible seems to have reached its maximum degree in the Middle Miocene , after which it again became shortened by the reduction of the symphysis , while the fleshy and now mobile proboscis was left behind as the sole organ of prehension .
In the upper dentition the chief changes are the loss of incisors Nos. 1 and 3 , and the great increase in size of incisor No. 2 , which eventually forms the great tusk characteristic of the later Proboscidea .
The canines are soon lost .
In the earliest forms , some at least of the cheek-teeth ( .milk-molars ) are replaced by premolars in the usual 444 Drs. 1 ) .
Hepburn and D. Waterston .
[ Jan. 23 , manner , and these teeth remain in wear simultaneously with the true molars ; but in later forms no vertical succession takes place , and as the milk-molars are worn they are shed , being replaced from behind by the forward movement of the molars .
Of these also the anterior may .
he shed , until at length in old individuals of the later types the last molar is alone functional .
The gradual increase in the complexity of the proboscidean molars is one of their most striking characteristics .
All stages can be traced between the simple , brachyodont , bilophoclont .(quadritubercular ) molars of Moeritherium(Middle Eocene ) to the extraordinarily complex type of tooth found in Thus in Palceomastodon(Upper Eocene ) the molars are trilophodont , and the same is true of the first and second molars of Tetmbelodon ( Miocene ) , in which , however , the last molar is complicated by the addition of further transverse crests .
In the Stegodonts of the Siwalik Hills ( Pliocene ) a further increase in the number and height of the crests takes place , .and the whole crown of the tooth is more or less covered with a thick coat of cement .
Still later , the transverse crests become highly compressed laminae united by cement , and these are as many as twenty-seven in number in the Pleistocene Elephas and the recent E. indicus .
The evolution of the lower molars corresponds with that of the upper molars .
Of the lower incisors the middle and outer pairs ( Nos. 1 and 3 ) are soon lost , but the second pair remains functional for a long geological period .
When the symphysis becomes shortened , these incisors are sometimes retained as vestiges ( .
, in Mastodon americanus ) , but in the genus Elephas they have completely disappeared .
\#166 ; " A Comparative Study of the Grey and White Matter of the Motor Cell Groups , and of the Spinal Accessory Nerve , in the Spinal Cord of the Porpoise ( Phoccena communis ) .
" By David Hepburn , M.D. , and David Waterston , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Sir Wm. Turner , F.R.S. Received January 23 , \#151 ; Read March 12 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) Recent advances in our knowledge of the arrangement of the motor cells in the anterior cornua of the spinal cord of man have been made almost entirely by the study of the changes produced in these cells by the division or removal of limbs or parts of limbs in the human subject , and very little has , as yet , been done to elucidate this subject by the comparative method of investigation .

