Experiments for investigating the Cause of the coloured concentric Rings , discovered by Sir Isaac Newton , between two Object-glasses laid upon one another .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read February 5 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 180 .
] The account , given by Sir Isaac Newton , of these coloured arcs , appeared to Dr. Herschel highly interesting , but he was not satisfied with the explanation of them .
Sir Isaac Newton accounts for the production of the rings , by ascribing to the rays of light certain fits of easy transmission and alternate reflection ; but this hypothesis seemed not easily to be reconciled with the minuteness and extreme velocity of the particles of light .
With the view of inquiring further into the cause of these phenomena , Dr. Herschel , so long since as the year 1792 , borrowed of this Society the two object-glasses of Huygens , one of 122 , and the other of 170 feet focal length .
Notwithstanding various interruptions , the series of experiments , made in the course of this time , has been carried to a considerable extent ; and Dr. Herschel thinks the conclusions that may be drawn from them , sufficiently well supported to point out several modifications of light that have been totally overlooked , and others that have not been properly discriminated .
The aim of the present paper is to arrange the various modifications of light in a clear and perspicuous order ; but Dr. Herschel reserves his sentiments upon the cause of the formation of concentric rings , for a subsequent communication .
The first section describes different methods of making one set of concentric rings visible .
The first method consisted in placing a double convex lens , of 26 inches focus , upon a piece of glass , of which the upper surface was plain and polished , but the under surface either plain , concave , or convex .
These were placed before a window , in such a position that the light fell upon the lens at about 30 ?
from the perpendicular , and was received by the eye , at an equal elevation , on the opposite side .
Instead of the surface of glass , a metallic surface was next substituted ; and the same lens placed upon it , gave the same appearance of similar concentric rings .
Moreover , it is not necessary that the surface of the under substance should be plain .
It may be either concave or convex ; so also may the upper surface , in contact , be either convex or concave , provided that when a concave surface is applied to another that is convex , the radius of concavity be greater than that of the convexity to which it is applied .
The second section treats of seeing the same rings by transmission , which , of course , admits the same variety in the forms of the surfaces in contact , but will not allow either of them to be metallic .
The third section distinguishes the several images , of any object , that are reflected from the different surfaces of several plates of glass , laid one upon another , on account of the use that may be made of these images , in assisting to discern the complicated phenomena produced in succeeding sections .
In the fourth section a second series of rings is produced , by placing the lens upon a piece of looking-glass , which occasions the primary set to be seen a second time by reflection .
But as this is less bright , the primary set , must first be obscured , by bringing the second reflected image of a pen-knife , or other pointed body , over it .
In this case there are three images of the pen-knife .
The second obscures the primary set of rings ; the third shows them to the greatest advantage .
The same varieties of contact which were found to make one set of rings , may , of course , be applied to make a secondary set , if there be a reflection beneath sufficiently bright to render it visible .
The fifth section treats of three sets of rings , produced by increasing the number of reflecting surfaces , as when a slip of glass is interposed between the lens and the looking-glass of a former experiment , or when the lens , laid upon two slips of glass , is placed on a plain metallic reflector .
The sixth section pursues the same complicated appearance , as far as four sets of rings , and shows how they may be discerned , by means of the reflected images of the pen-knife .
In the seventh section the size of rings is considered , so far as it depends on the curvature of the surfaces ; but Sir Isaac Newton having already treated this part of the subject at large , Dr. Herschel does not think it necessary to enter further into it .
In the eighth section , the species of contact requisite for exhibiting the rings is mentioned , the size of them being considerably affected by pressure .
They grow larger when the two surfaces that form them are pressed closer together , and diminish in proportion as the pressure is removed .
The smallest ring of a set may thus be increased to double or triple its former diameter .
But to produce that which may properly be called contact , mere pressure is not sufficient ; and it will be necessary to give a little motion laterally backwards and forwards , accompanied with moderate pressure .
The number of the rings , which may be seen at once , varies from eight or ten to as many as twenty , accordingly as the light is less or more favourable .
As the size of the rings is altered , so the colours of them are much affected by pressure .
When a convex surface , of fifteen feet radius , is laid upon a plain surface , if the colour which first appears be red , a moderate pressure will convert it into a ring of red , with a green centre ; and in the same manner , by increase of pressure , the green will give place to red ; and so alternately for six or seven times , till at last , in absolute contact , the centre becomes black , surrounded by white .
The twelfth section describes the successive development of all the prismatic colours , by using lenses of greater radii .
For though a small lens , of two inches , shows nothing but black and white in the series of rings that surround the centre of absolute contact , with a lens of four inches a faint red colour begins to appear in the outward rings ; and this redness will be more manifest with radii of five , six , and seven inches ; but the rings will not assume a green colour till a lens is used of sixteen , eighteen , or twenty inches : but it must be observed , that this and other colours appear soonest when the lens is not kept in such contact as to give a black centre .
With a lens of twenty-six inches , violet , indigo , or blue , may first be discerned at the centre .
With one of thirty-four , the white surrounding the black inclines to yellow ; with forty-two or forty-eight , yellow rings become visible ; with fifty-nine , blue rings are plainly visible ; with ten feet , orange may be distinguished from yellow , and indigo from blue ; with fourteen feet , violet becomes visible .
When the Huygenian lens , of 122 feet , is well settled , the central spot , which in small lenses appeared black , is diluted , and drawn out into violet , indigo , and blue , surrounded with an admixture of green ; while the white ring that surrounded the black spot is also subdivided , and blending with the green edge , surrounds it with yellow , orange , and red .
The order of the colours , whether the rings are seen by reflection or transmission , is such , that the most refrangible of each ring are toward the centre ; but the black of one set corresponds in position to the white of the other , and the red to the green , so that the dimensions of rings , of the same colour , in each are not alike .
Hence a sudden change of colours may be produced , in each set , by intercepting that light by which they were before seen , and occasioning them to be seen by the opposite ; and this alteration of colour is accompanied with an immediate change of size .
In several of the succeeding sections Dr. Herschel explains , by reference to figures , the courses of the rays by which each appearance is seen , and refers them each to the surface from which they are reflected .
He next examines which are the reflecting surfaces , by means of certain scratches , and other defects .
In the 25th and 26th section he finds , by means of similar defects , that the surfaces in contact are alone concerned in the formation of rings ; and in the 24th and 28th section he discovers , by various irregular surfaces which he employs , as 1st and 4th surfaces of two glasses in contact , that these are not concerned in the production of rings .
And in the 27th section he observes , that the colour of the under glass does not affect the primary set of rings .
The results of the foregoing experiments are , I. That only two of the surfaces are , essential to the formation of concentric rings .
II .
That these two must be of a certain regular construction , so as to form a central contact .
III .
That rays , from one side or the other , riust pass through one of the surfaces at or near the point of contact to the other surface , and be reflected from it .
And IV .
That in all these cases a set of rings will be formed , having their common centre in the point of contact .
The cause of these phenomena , Dr. Herschel says , must be either in the nature of the rays themselves , or in the surfaces ; and if it can be shown that the disposition to fits of easy transmission and reflection does not exist , a proposition of accounting for them by modifications occasioned by the surfaces , he thinks , will find a ready admittance .
In section 30 , he shows that the word transmission will not apply to the case where rings are produced by placing a lens upon a metallic surface , and wishes to substitute the word absorption .
In section 31 , Dr. Herschel contends that a plate of air , of the thinness which is supposed sufficient , will not give coloured rings ; because in a case of circumferential contact , where a concave surface was applied to one that was convex , of very little larger radius , he could not perceive any appearance of colour .
In section 32 , he places a piece of plain glass , four tenths of an inch square , on a concave glass mirror of 10 feet focus , but could observe no rings or colours .
In section 33 , he does not find that a secondary set of colours , produced in the usual way , is altered by being seen through a wedge of air , occasioned by the interposition of card between the edges of two slips of glass .
And finally , in section 34 , Dr. Herschel could discern no colours when two slips of plain glass , two inches long , were in contact at one extremity , and distant only -- , ,th of an inch at their other extremities ; although in the first half-inch from their contact , the several distances which Sir Isaac Newton considers as capable of producing ten successions of colours , must have occurred .
Dr. Herschel therefore infers , that the rays of light have no disposition to be alternately reflected and transmitted at certain intervals of space ; but the examination of the various modifications that light receives by its approach to , entrance into , or passage by differently disposed surfaces , he reserves for a second part of this paper , to be hereafter communicated .

