On the Action of Acids on the Salts usually called Hyperoxymuriates , and on the Gases produced from them .
By Sir Humphry Davy , k LL. D. F.R.S. Read May 4 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 214 .
] M. Gay-Lussac having obtained , by the action of sulphuric acid on hyperoxymuriate of barytes , a peculiar compound , to which he gave the name of chloric acid , the author was induced to examine the action of this and other acids on the hyperoxymuriate of potash , and after various attempts , found the following process with sulphuric acid to be the best .
A small quantity , not exceeding fifty or sixty grains , of the hyperoxymuriate are to be mixed with a small quantity of the acid in its concentrated state , and to be rubbed together by means of a spatula of platina till incorporated into a solid mass of a bright orange colour .
This mass having been introduced into a small retort , is to be then warmed by immersion in water gradually heated , but kept below the boiling point .
As the heat rises , an elastic fluid is emitted of a bright yellowish green colour .
This gas may be received over mercury , on which it has no action ; but it is rapidly absorbed by water .
Its smell is aromatic , without any smell of chlorine .
It destroys vegetable blues , without previously reddening them , By a temperature of 212 ?
it explodes with more violence than euchlorine , expanding more , and producing more light .
After the explosion the volume is found increased in the proportion of 2 to 3 ; two parts of the product being oxygen , and the remainder chlorine .
Phosphorus introduced into this gas occasions an explosion , and burns in the liberated gases with its usual brilliancy ; but other combustible bodies have no action on the gas .
Water saturated with the gas is of a deep yellow colour ; it does not taste sour , but astringent and corrosive , leaving a lasting and dis , agreeable impression on the tongue .
It appears to the author not impossible , that the gas to which he formerly gave the name of euchlorine , may be a mixture of the new gas with chlorine ; and indeed the action of water upon euchlorine favours this idea , since it acquires the same colour from it , and leaves a residuum of chlorine ; but , on the contrary , the circumstance that Dutch foil has no action upon euchlorine , seems to show that it contains no free chlorine merely intermixed , but that the whole is chemically combined .
The saturated solution of the new gas in water , when mixed with alkaline solutions , does not immediately lose its colour , or neutralize the alkalies , but after a time the hyperoxymuriates are formed , and the colour disappears .
In consequence of the doubt which now occurs concerning the true nature of euchlorine , the author declines giving a name to the present compound , till he can have an opportunity of making some new experiments on that subject .

