348 Optical Investigation of Solidified Gases.\#151 ; III .
The Crystalline Properties of Chlorine and Bromine .
By Walter Wahl , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Sir James Dewar , F.R.S. Received February 26 , \#151 ; Read March 13 , 1913 .
) ( From the Davy-Faraday Laboratory of the Royal Institution .
) Of the crystalline properties of the halogens only those of iodine are known .
Of bromine , Arctowski has , at \#151 ; 78 ' , obtained red needles from a solution in carbon bisulphide , * but these have not been further examined .
Dewar , quite early in his researches at low temperatures , stated that solid bromine gets much lighter in colour when it is cooled to the temperature of liquid hydrogen .
Chlorine and fluorinef behave similarly ; beyond this nothing is known as to the crystal properties of solid chlorine .
Chlorine and bromine have , therefore , been investigated in continuation of the work described in ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' A , vol. 87 , p. 371 , and A , vol. 88 , p. 61 .
Chlorine .
In order to obtain pure chlorine the gas was prepared from gold chloride and generated in the same piece of apparatus as was subsequently used for crystallising it .
The device is shown in the figure .
The stem of a quartz-glass crystallisation vessel ( C.Y. ) of the kind To pump To pump * Arctowski , * Zeitschrift fur Anorgan .
Chemie , ' 1895 , vol. 10 , p. 25 .
+ Moissan and Dewar , ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1903 , vol. 136 , p. 642 .
Optical Investigation of Solidified Gases .
349 previously described was first passed through a rubber stopcock fitting into a small vacuum vessel , and to this stem was then sealed a kind of small fractionating bulb of quartz-glass ( see fig. ) , the connecting tube being bent at right angles .
The bulb itself had a capacity of about 50 c.c. About 15 grains of gold chloride were brought into the bulb , and by means of a short piece of rubber pressure-tubing the side-tube was then connected to a U-tube , which again was connected to a charcoal bulb ( right-hand portion of figure ) .
The U-tube and the charcoal bulb were then immersed in liquid air and the interior of the entire quartz-glass apparatus was thus dried in high vacuum for a considerable time .
The quartz-glass bulb containing the gold chloride was subsequently heated in an oil bath , the temperature being raised gradually up to 125 ' .
In this high vacuum the gold chloride began to give off some chlorine at about 100 ' , and at 125 ' the chlorine was so freely given off that the heating was discontinued .
The moisture and HC1 , resulting from the action of chlorine on the moisture , together with the quantity of chlorine already given off by the gold chloride and any products possibly arising by the action of the chlorine on the rubber connection between quartz and glass , were in this way condensed and solidified in the U-tube immersed in liquid air .
The quartz-glass bulb was then allowed to cool , the charcoal vacuum being maintained all the time , and the quartz-glass apparatus sealed off at a ( see fig. ) by an oxygen blowpipe .
A syphon and a tube connected with a mercury barometer valve , and through this to the vacuum tank of the laboratory , were then inserted into the rubber stopcock , and this fixed into the vacuum vessel ( left portion of figure ) .
The liquefaction and solidification of the chlorine was effected in the following manner .
The crystallisation vessel was first cooled to some extent by admitting a small quantity of liquid air into the vacuum vessel and letting it boil off .
The quartz-glass bulb containing the gold chloride was then gently heated with a burning match , the heat from three or four matches being quite sufficient to generate the small quantity of chlorine needed to fill the minute space between the discs of the crystallisation vessel and the lower part of its stem .
When the crystallisation vessel had been cooled strongly before the gold chloride was heated , the chlorine was condensed in the form of quite minute isometric crystals on the walls of the discs of the crystallisation vessel .
These small crystals were very sharp and perfect , showed very brilliant light reflexes ' and seemed to possess a high refractive index .
Between crossed nicols they showed bright interference-colours and are thus double-refracting .
Owing to their small size it was not possible to make out anything as to their crystalline form .
vol. lxxxviii.\#151 ; A. 2 c Dr. W. Wahl .
[ Feb. 26 , If the crystallisation vessel is slowly cooled while the chlorine is generated , this can easily be condensed as a liquid and subsequently crystallised by further cooling .
It then solidifies in the form of very beautiful crystalline growth-structures .
These grow chiefly in the direction of a principal axis , simultaneously sending out branches to each side , at an angle of about 40 ' to 50 ' with the principal axis .
The space between the branches of the growth-structure is filled up , in a later stage of the crystallisation process , and in this way homogeneous crystal fields result .
When cooled further , a distinct cleavage parallel to the principal axis of the growth-structure is formed .
In spite of the thinness of the crystal film between the discs of the crystallisation vessel , the crystal fields appear distinctly pale yellow in colour .
The polarised light travelling parallel to the cleavage and principal axis is more strongly absorbed , and the transmitted light is of a deeper yellow , with a greenish tint , than is the polarised light passing in directions at right angles to the principal axis .
There is a slight difference in the degree of absorption in the two directions at right angles to the principal axis , but in such a thin crystal layer no difference in colour is noticeable between these directions .
The crystallised chlorine is , in sections both parallel and at right angles to the principal axis , strongly double-refracting .
The extinction between crossed nicols is parallel to the principal axis , as indicated by the cleavage .
Chlorine thus belongs to the orthorhombic system .
When the crystallised chlorine is further cooled the cleavage is further developed , but no polymorphic change has been observed at temperatures between that of the melting point and that of liquid air .
The absorption in the direction parallel to the principal axis gradually diminishes when the preparation is cooled , and at liquid-air temperatures scarcely any difference in colour in different directions is noticeable , the crystals appearing quite pale , scarcely coloured at all .
Bromine .
Some preliminary tests were made with ordinary bromine , brought directly into the stem of a crystallisation vessel and then sucked into the narrow space between the quartz-glass discs by alternately gently heating and cooling these .
As it was found that solid bromine is quite sufficiently transparent in such thin layers , a small sample of pure dry bromine was investigated in the piece of apparatus used for the investigation of chlorine .
A quantity of pure bromine ( " Kahlbaum " ) and some phosphorus pentoxide were brought into a small glass bulb provided with two tube-necks .
One of these was drawn out so as to fit into the open end of the 1913 .
] Optical Investigation of Solidified Gases .
small side-tube , ay of the quartz-glass apparatus .
The joint was made secure by slipping a piece of rubber pressure-tubing over it .
This acted as a spring , pressing the parts together .
The other tube of the bulb was connected with a U-tube'immersed in liquid air , and this with a charcoal bulb .
The bromine contained in the glass bulb was frozen by applying to it a wad of cotton-wool drenched in liquid air .
The apparatus was then exhausted by means of the charcoal and sealed off between the glass bulb containing the bromine and phosphorus pentoxide and the U-tube .
The quartz-glass apparatus and the bromine were in this way left to dry in vacuum over phosphorus pentoxide .
Subsequently , part of the bromine , about 1 c.c. , was sublimated over into the quartz-glass bulb by cooling this with liquid air .
The quartz-glass apparatus was then sealed off .
The bromine was sublimated over into the crystallisation vessel by cooling this with liquid air , and investigated as described in the previous cases .
Crystallised bromine is very similar to crystallised chlorine , only all the properties appear more pronounced .
The most striking feature is the strong pleochroism .
The crystal grains and fields show a tendency to develop in prismatic forms , and a prismatic cleavage is very distinct .
There is also an indication of a basal cleavage , but this becomes distinct only at low temperatures .
The prismatic cleavage angle is about 70 ' .
The double refraction is strong , and the extinction is parallel to the cleavage\#151 ; that is , to the principal axis\#151 ; and in sections at right angles to the principal axis it is parallel to the line bisecting the cleavage angle .
The absorption is : dark brownish red in the direction of the prism axis , yellowish red in the direction of a line bisecting the smaller prism-angle , and pale yellowish green in the direction of the line bisecting the larger prism-angle .
On cooling , the strong absorption ' in the direction parallel to the prism-axis rapidly diminishes , and at the same time the transmitted light gradually becomes more yellowish red , and subsequently yellow .
Also , in the direction of yellowish-red absorption a similar change takes place , resulting in a pale yellow colour at liquid-air temperature .
In the case of the third principal direction of absorption it is difficult to observe if a change takes place or not , as the colour is already so light at temperatures close to the melting point .
The change in colour of solid bromine from brownish red , nearly black as it appears near the melting point , to very pale yellow at the temperature of liquid air , and subsequently to quite a pale tint at the temperature of liquid hydrogen , as described by Sir James Dewar , is thus principally due to a gradual disappearance of the strong trichroism which it possesses at temperatures close to the melting point , the crystals assuming at low temperatur 2 c 2 Dr. W. Wahl .
[ Feb. 26 , more or less the colour they exhibit at high temperature in one certain crystallographic direction .
An alteration of the pleochroism with change of the temperature has been observed by Kirchhoff in the case of green tourmaline.* * * S The above optical characters , as well as the cleavage , show that bromine crystallises in the orthorhombic system .
No polymorphic change has been observed in the temperature range comprised between the melting point and that of liquid air .
The Relations between the Crystalline Properties oj Chlorine , Bromine , and Iodine .
Iodine has been investigated crystallographically by Mitscherlich , who found that it crystallises in the rhombic system and with a prism-angle of 67 ' 12'.f Recently , v. Fedorow , investigating iodine crystals that had sublimated on the asbestos stopper of a reagent bottle , found that these consisted both of the ordinary rhombic tablets and of prisms which belong to the monoclinic system .
J Both kinds of crystals are very similar in colour and general appearance .
Iodine is thus dimorphic .
Both forms can be obtained from solutions in CS2 , CHC13 , alcohol , and petrol-ether , the monoclinic being formed when the solution is very rapidly evaporated , the ordinary rhombic form when the solution is allowed to evaporate slowly .
Y. Kurbatoff found , in addition , that on sublimation of iodine the ordinary form is produced when the temperature is above + 46'5 ' , and that monoclinic prisms are formed when the temperature at which the sublimation is carried out is lower .
S With regard to the optical properties of iodine hardly anything is known .
Jorgensen states , however , that extremely thin dendritic crystals , obtained on a glass plate by the evaporation of an iodine solution in ether , act as polarisers ( " artificial tourmalines " ) and appear in polarised light either black or light brown , according to the direction of their principal elongation with reference to the polarisation plane.|| Sufficiently thin crystal-layers can also be obtained simply by melting a small crystal of iodine between two glass plates and squeezing these firmly together while the preparation is cooling and the iodine crystallising .
I am able to corroborate the statements of Jorgensen and to add that total absorption takes place when the direction * G. Kirchhoff , ' Pogg .
Ann./ 1860 , vol. 109 , p. 299 .
t See v. Groth , ' Chemische Krystallographie/ vol. 1 , p. 33 .
I v. Fedorow , ' Bull .
Acad. Petersburg/ 1907 , ( 5 ) , vol. 22 , p. 287 .
S v. Kurbatoff , ' Zeitschrift f. Anorg .
Chemie/ vol. 56 , p. 230 .
|| S. M. Jorgensen , ' Berichte Chem. Ges .
Berlin/ 1869 , vol. 2 , p. 465 .
1913 .
] Optical Investigation of Solidified Gases .
353 of the principal axis is parallel to the plane of polarisation .
The light transmitted at right angles to the principal axis is , in these extremely thin growth-structures , either light reddish-brown , or light leather-brown , there being no great difference of absorption visible between these directions , probably on account of the thinness of the crystal-layer .
It was further found that the colours appeared considerably paler in the direction at right angles to the principal axis , when the preparation was cooled in liquid air .
The absorption in the direction parallel to the principal axis remains , however , even at low temperature , strong enough to extinguish the polarised light totally in this direction .
No transition into a monoclinic form takes place when the rhombic growth-structures are cooled to about \#151 ; 180 ' , as is clearly seen from their behaviour in polarised light .
It seems , therefore , not probable that the monoclinic form is the one stable at low temperatures , the rhombic at high temperatures , the transition point being +46*5 ' , as suggested by Kurbatoff .
The ordinary rhombic modification of iodine is probably the modification stable at all temperatures , the monoclinic prisms belonging to a monotropic form with a marked temperature-limit of formation , and apparently low velocity of transition at ordinary temperature .
Their opaqueness and metallic character render it impossible to know if the monoclinic crystals investigated by v. Fedorow and Kurbatoff wTere pseudomorphosed or not .
The formation of the monoclinic form by rapid evaporation of solutions indicates also that it is a sporadically formed monotropic modification , and that a transition-point between the two modifications does not exist .
If we compare crystallised chlorine , bromine , and iodine with each other , we thus find that all three elements are rhombic .
From the investigation of the melting points of the systems chlorine-bromine , chlorine-iodine , * and bromine-iodine , f we are enabled to conclude that they form a continuous series of mixed crystals , and may thus be regarded as perfectly isomorphic .
The pleochroism of the three members of the series is of particular interest , as it occurs in all members of the group , and its strength and character\#151 ; like the other physical and chemical characters of the group\#151 ; change and increase as the atomic weight increases .
It is , however , specially remarkable that the colour in thfe direction of principal absorption in chlorine should be so closely the same as the colour in the direction of weakest absorption in bromine , and that the colour of strongest absorption in bromine should be about the same\#151 ; as far as determination is possible\#151 ; as that of weakest absorption in iodine .
* B. J. Karsten , ' Zeitschr .
f. Anorg .
Chemie , ' 1907 , vol. 53 , p. 365 .
t Meerum Terwogt , ' Zeitschr .
f. Anorg .
Chemie , ; 1905 , vol. 47 , p. 203 .

