212 Mr. J. N. Langley .
[ Mar. 19 , James Cockle 's results ' and his own .
The object of this communica- I tion is to show that there is not only similarity but absolute identity !
the two classes of functions considered by Professor Malet coinciding in every point with the ordinary and differential criticoids discussed by Sir James Cockle .
" My object in writing this note is to call attention to the fact that by the omission of the first part of my note , and his own comments oh the partial extract he makes from it , Mr. Harley represents me as making a statement bearing an interpretation very different from that I meant it to bear .
Having done so , I will trouble the Society with the matter no further , and will leave it to those who may be interested , to judge if the general results of my paper are identical with Sir James Cockle 's .
III .
" The 'Paralytic ' Secretion of Saliva .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received March 16 , 1885 .
It was shown by Claude Bernard that section of the chorda tympani nerve in the dog , causes , after an interval of about twenty-four hours , a slow " paralytic " secretion of saliva from the submaxillary gland ; the secretion continues for several weeks , and is accompanied by a gradual diminution in the size of the gland .
Heidenhain confirmed these observations , and he found further that the effect was not confined to the gland on the side of the body on which the nerve had been cut , but extended also to the corresponding gland of the opposite side of the body , so that section of either chorda tympani nerve caused a continuous secretion from both sub-maxillary glands .
Since Heidenhain 's paper in 1868 , nothing has , so far as I know , been published on this subject .
I purpose to give a brief account of some observations which were made by me several years ago , and which may serve to recall attention to certain curious facts touching both nerve and gland physiology .
Since the secretion , which takes place on the side of the body on which the nerve is cut , is called the " paralytic " secretion , we will call the corresponding secretion , which takes place on the opposite side of the body , the " anti-paralytic , " or more briefly the " antilytic " secretion.* I will consider first the paralytic and antilytic secretions during the first day or two of their occurrence .
Luring this time the * A fuller account will be published in the forthcoming number of the " Journal of Physiology .
" 1885 .
] The Paralytic " Secretion of Saliva .
213 paralytic secretion is stopped for several hours at least , by cutting the sympathetic nerve-fibres running to the gland ; the antilytic secretion is made slower by cutting the chorda tympani , and is stopped by cutting , in addition , the sympathetic fibres on the carotid , that is , the secretion ceases in each case when the nervous connexions between the gland and the central nervous system are severed .
From this it follows that the paralytic secretion in its early stage is caused by nervous impulses passing from the central secretory centre down the sympathetic nerve to the gland , and that the antilytic secretion is similarly caused by nervous impulses sent out from the central secretory centre , but passing in part down the chorda tympani nerve which is here intact .
Since the paralytic secretion is more copious than the antilytic secretion , it follows that the nervous impulses sent out by the secretory centre on the side of the body on which the chorda tympani is cut , are of greater intensity than those sent out by the secretory centre of the opposite side .
Thus , section of one chorda tympani is followed by a change in the central secretory centre of such a nature , that it continuously sends out nerve-impulses tending to produce a secretion from the sub-maxillary glands ; the change , however , is not equal on the two sides , but is more profound on the side of the body on which the chorda tympani has been cut .
That the central nerve-cells concerned in producing the secretion are not in their normal condition , can be shown in another way .
It is well known that in a normal animal , dyspnoea causes , when the chorda tympani nerve is intact , a secretion of saliva from the submaxillary gland .
Now , in the stage of the paralytic and antilytic secretion spoken of above , when they are produced by stimuli sent out by the central nervous system , dyspnoea causes a much more rapid flow of saliva , and causes it sooner than it does normally ; moreover , the effect of dyspnoea is greater on the paralytic than on the antilytic secretion .
Hence , then , section of one chorda tympani causes an increase of irritability in the central secretory centre , the increase of irritability being greater on the side of the body on which the chorda tympani nerve has been cut .
Since a venosity of blood greater than normal , will , in a normal animal , serve as a stimulus to the central nerve-cells , and cause a flow of saliva , it is probable that if the irritability of the nerve-cells be increased , the normal venosity of the blood will serve as a stimulus to the nerve-cells , and cause a flow of saliva .
Hence I think it is not unreasonable to suppose that the paralytic and the antilytic secretions in their early stages are essentially similar to the dyspnoea secretion of the normal animal , and that they are proximately caused by the central nerve-cells , in their state of increased irritability , being stimulated by the blood supplied to them .
This view is confirmed by 214 Mr. J. N. Langley .
[ Mar. 19 , .
the effect of apnoea ; during apncea both the paralytic and the anti j lytic secretions stop .
The antilytic secretion is , as far as I have observed , solely 0f | central origin , since it ceases on severing the nerves connecting the gland with the central nervous system ; according to Heidenhain , - j however , it continues after the nerves have been severed .
The paralytic secretion is only in its early stage of central origin , ; , very soon local changes come into play , rapidly increase in intensity ] and continue long after the central changes have ceased to be effective to produce a secretion .
Thus , then , the paralytic secretion in its later stages continues undiminished after section of all the sympathetic 1 fibres running to the gland .
When the chorda tympani and sympa- ; thetic fibres are simultaneously cut , the paralytic secretion which follows is of course of local origin only .
There are two ways in which the secretion of local origin might be brought about , either by a change f : in the gland-cells of such a nature that in their abnormal nutritive con-j ditions they secrete continuously , or by a change in a local secretory centre analogous to that which takes place in the central secretory centre .
Heidenhain is inclined to adopt the former view , and , on !
general grounds , it does not seem to me unlikely that gland-cells , normally secreting in response to nervous impulses only , should in certain circumstances secrete continuously without such impulses ; but in this particular case there are I think fair grounds for believing that the secretion is caused by nervous impulses sent out by a local secretory centre .
These grounds I will briefly state .
On the course of the nerves between the lobes and lobules of the gland there are many nerve-cells .
It is highly probable that some at any rate of these nerve-cells are connected with the secretory nerves , since the chorda tympani nerve-fibres , unlike the nerve-fibres of the skeletal muscles and those sweat glands , degenerate very slowly after severance from the central nervous system .
In the cat the chorda tympani fibres on the duct , near its entrance into the sub-maxillary gland , produce a secretion when stimulated , two to three weeks after the nerve trunk has been , cut.* Further , the secretion of local origin is increased by dyspnoea , is stopped by apnoea , and by anaesthetics when given in considerable excess .
That is , the paralytic secretion , when it is produced by * Pilocarpin causes a secretion for more than six weeks after section of the chorda tympani , but no conclusion with regard to the condition of the nerves can at present be drawn from this , since it is possible that pilocarpin acts directly on the gland-cells .
During the paralytic secretion produced by section of the chorda tympani , stimulation of sympathetic nerve causes a flow of saliva very much as if the gland were normal .
885.1 jTAd ?
" Paralytic " Secretion of Saliva .
215 changes occurring locally , is affected by dyspnoea , by apnoea , and oy anaesthetics in the same way as it is when produced by nervous mpulses sent out from the central secretory centre ; and this strongly suggests that the secretion in the former case also is brought about jy nervous impulses , proceeding in this instance from a local secretory centre .
I conclude , then , that section of the chorda tympani causes an in-brease in irritability , both in a central and in a local secretory centre , during which increase of irritability the blood passing through the bentre serves as an effective stimulus .
The central centre in no very long time recovers its normal state , the local centre does not .
Probably it and the gland eventually atrophy unless the chorda tympani regrows .
Although the secreting cells of the sub-maxillary gland steadily diminish in size during the paralytic secretion , they undergo only \#166 ; slight histological changes ; they become somewhat more mucous .
The demilune cells and the serous cells , which are present in considerable number in the sub-maxillary gland of the cat , do not show any obvious change , except their diminution in size ; the increase in the \#166 ; number of these cells , which is stated by Heidenhain to occur , I have not observed .
That the cells , in spite of the paralytic secretion , are in a " resting " and not in an " active " condition , is further shown by the cells being , in the fresh state , granular throughout .
On the side of the antilytic secretion the gland-cells are rather less mucous than in the normal " resting " gland .

