I. " On the Action of Sulphuric Acid on the Nitriles and on the Amides .
" By G. B. BUCKTON and A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Communicated by Dr. HOFMANN .
Received December 1 , 1855 .
Although the identity of the nitriles with the hydrocyanic ethers has been established by the experiments of M. Dumas , who obtained them by the action of anhydrous phosphoric acid upon certain ammoniacal salts , chemists have hitherto in vain sought for a method by which a passage might be effected from the nitriles to the general alcohol derivatives .
Our attention has been directed likewise to the same subject , but our exertions , like those of our predecessors , have not yet been crowned with success .
The researches on which we have been engaged , have , however , furnished some results which appear to us worthy of the interest of chemists , the reactions being at the same time remarkable for their neatness and susceptibility of general application .
Acetonitrile may be considered as the type of its class , both from the importance of the group to which it belongs , and the facility of its preparation .
It is , in fact , the nitrile with which we have been specially engaged .
This body when mixed with its own volume of fuming sulphuric acid , evolves a considerable amount of heat , accompanied by a very energetic reaction .
If care be taken to add the acid in small quantities , and to cool the mixture after each addition , scarcely any change of colour is to be observed .
By the addition of water , and subsequent saturation with carbonate of barium , a crystalline salt is produced in considerable quantity , which possesses all the characters and composition of the sulphacetate of barium , C4 ( H2Ba2 ) 04 2 S03 , discovered some time ago by M. Melsens in the mutual reaction of anhydrous sulphuric acid upon glacial acetic acid .
If , on the contrary , the mixture of acetonitrile and fuming sulphuric acid be made rapidly , and the liquid be rather strongly heated , an abundant evolution of carbonic acid indicates a more profound reaction .
The residuary mass , which is tough and of a resinous consistency , when treated with water , and boiled with excess of carbonate of barium , yields a magnificent crystallization of a salt represented by the formula C2 ( H,2 Ba ) 4 SO3 + 4aq .
It is a substance of remarkable stability .
It does not lose weight at a temperature of 100 ?
C. , but four equivalents of water of crystallization are disengaged at 170 ?
C. It is not further affected by a temperature of 220 ?
C. A strong heat resolves it into water , sulphide of barium , sulphurous acid , free sulphur , and carbonic oxide .
It may be boiled for hours with fuming nitric acid without the slightest decomposition .
We have also made analyses of the ammonia and silver salts .
The former crystallizes with great facility in colourless oblique prisms , which may be readily obtained upwards of an inch in length .
They are anhydrous , and perfectly stable at a temperature of 190 ?
C. The composition of this salt is represented by the formula C2 [ H2 ( NH4)2 ] 4S 03 .
The silver salt is obtained by digesting oxide of silver with an aqueous solution of the new acid .
It forms large crystals , which are easily soluble in water , but insoluble in alcohol or ether .
They contain C2(H2 Ag2 ) 4 S. The acid may be obtained by decomposing either the lead or silver salt by hydrosulphuric acid , or perhaps more conveniently , by carefully precipitating a solution of the barium salt with sulphuric acid .
It is an exceedingly soluble and deliquescent substance , crystallizing in long needles .
It has a sharp acid taste , with somewhat of the flavour of tartaric acid .
For want of a more convenient name , we propose for this acid the appellation of Methylo-tetra-sulphuric acid .
Without wishing to decide at present upon its constitution , its composition allows us to consider it as formed by the association of marsh gas with four equivalents of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
In the reaction of sulphuric acid upon acetonitrile , two distinct phases may be traced .
In the first , the nascent acetic acid simply combines with two equivalents of sulphuric acid ; in the second phase , the acetic molecule undergoes a more thorough transformation ; faithful to its tradition it splits into carbonic acid and marsh gas , which remains combined with four equivalents of sulphuric acid .
The new substance also may be regarded as sulphacetic acid , which , losing carbonic acid , has assimilated an equal number of equivalents of sulphuric acid .
The two reactions may be represented by the following equations : C4H3N +2 HO + 3HS04= 0414 042S03 +NH SO40 Acetonitrile .
Sulphacetic acid .
C4H3N +5H S04 O C2 4 4S03 +N4 804 +2 CO2 .
Acetonitrile .
Methylo-tetrasulphuric acid .
The action , then , of bases and of acids upon acetic acid presents a rema.rkable analogy .
The nature of the change which the acetic molecule suffers , is in fact identical .
Under the influence of both agents , it splits into marsh gas and carbonic acid , but in the former case it is the carbonic acid which is fixed , whilst in the latter it is the marsh gas that remains in combination .
The production of methylo-tetra-sulphuric acid calls to mind the interesting substance , sulphate of carbyl , discovered by M. Magnus , by combining olefiant gas with the vapour of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
Our new acid is however easily distinguishable from this body , as well by its different composition as by its extreme stability ; sulphate of carbyl , as is well known , being decomposed by water into isethionic acid .
As acetamide differs from acetonitrile only in containing two additional equivalents of water , it undergoes with Nordhausen sulphuric acid a strictly analogous transformation .
From the comparative facility of its preparation it offers peculiar advantages for procuring the methylo-tetra-sulphates .
The only difference to be noted is , that in this case the ammonia salt is generally eliminated instead of the free acid .
M. Melsens , in his researches upon the sulphacetates , appears in some sort to have anticipated the existence of the methylo-tetrasulphates .
He remarks that he once found in the mother liquor obtained from the preparation of sulphacetate of silver , a crystalline salt , the composition of which he represents by the formula C2 H2 Ag2 S4 012 .
It is evident that these crystals contain the same elements as methylo-tetra-sulphate of silver , but M. Melsens does not appear to have investigated the subject further than by showing the existence of this silver salt .
A detailed description of the methylo-tetra-sulphates , and the study of the corresponding bodies of other series , will be on our part the subject of a special memoir .

