249 On the Action of Antimony Compounds in Trypanosomiasis in Rats : being a Report to a Sub-Committee of the Tropical Diseases Committee of the Royal Society .
By John D. Thomson , M.B. , C.M. , and Arthur B. Cushny , M.D. , F.R.S. ( Received November 23 , 1909 , \#151 ; Read January 20 , 1910 .
) The near chemical and pharmacological relation of arsenic and antimony suggested naturally the use of the latter in a disease in which the former had proved of value ; but the irritant action of the ordinary antimony salts seemed to preclude their use by hypodermic injection .
After repeated attempts to form organic compounds of antimony analogous to atoxyl , one of us ( C. ) submitted to Plimmer and Thomson , for experimental trial , a compound of glycine and antimony , and their results with it showed that antimony possesses trypanocidal properties .
This first antimony compound proved difficult to make and unstable , however , and these observers substituted for it tartar emetic ; the results were satisfactory , and the following investigation was undertaken with the object of determining the limits of usefulness of other antimony compounds in these diseases .
The experiments were made on rats infected with a strain of Nagana ( T. ) obtained by the kindness of Sir J. McFadyean .
This strain was fatal to rats within six days after inoculation , or within three days after trypanosomes appeared in the blood .
The inoculation and treatment were carried out at the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine .
In the use of the heavy metals it is generally recognised that the more readily dissociated compounds are liable to cause more local irritation than others , and where the local action is to be avoided , attempts are made-to use compounds which are less immediately dissociated and pass into the general tissues in their original form , there to free the metallic ion compound which is necessary for the desired effect .
An example of this is offered in the substitution of atoxyl for the older arsenic preparations in the treatment of trypanosomiasis , for there is no question that the atoxyl owes its activity to the simpler compounds formed from it in the tissues .
It is possible that , in addition to avoiding local irritation , such compounds as atoxyl may penetrate into cells which are not permeable by ordinary arsenic salts , and that the latter may in this way be liberated in cells to which they would not otherwise have had access .
With this in mind it seemed desirable to test the action of compounds in VOL. lxxxii.\#151 ; b. X 250 Mr. Thomson and Dr. Cushny .
Action of [ Nov. 23 , which antimony is more firmly combined than the ordinary salts , but very few organic combinations are available , and we have succeeded in obtaining only two such for investigation .
Of these the first was tetraethylstibonium iodide ( ( C^Hg^Sbl ) , which was injected into seven Nagana rats in quantities up to 20 milligrammes , hut had no effect whatever on the parasites , the injected animals dying at the usual time , and the blood being found to be swarming with trypanosomes .
The other , diphenylstibinchloride ( ( C6H5)2SbCl3 , H20 ) , was kindly put at our disposal by Prof. A. Michaelis , of Rostock , but proved quite devoid of action in quantities of 4 c.c. of a saturated solution in sodium carbonate , in which it is more soluble than in water .
These compounds appear non-irritant , but the antimony is probably not freed in the tissues , the first compound in particular resembling the ammonium salts , which pass through the animal body without freeing nitrogen .
These compounds proving valueless for our purpose , it was determined to find in what form the antimony ion had to be liberated to be effective , and a number of compounds commercially obtainable were tested .
Of these the potassium metantimoniate ( Sb020K ) , injected in quantities up to 30 milligrammes , scarcely affected the trypanosomes in the blood ; doses above 30 milligrammes were followed by the disappearance of the parasites from the circulation , but the rats became very ill and died within a few days , and post mortem enteritis and nephritis were found to have been developed .
A preparation of antimony oxide ( Sb203 ) , stated to be in colloidal form , was obtained from Kalle and Co. , but proved extremely irritating , and had a very low efficiency .
The preparation contained 4'5 per cent , of antimony oxide only , and in quantities corresponding to 4 milligrammes of the oxide had little , if any , effect in reducing the number of trypanosomes in the blood ; 8 milligrammes caused their disappearance , but they recurred on the fourth day .
In the former of these preparations antimony is presented in pentavalent , in the latter in trivalent , form , and both are equally inefficient , while in the forms in which it is presented in combination with organic acids it is also in trivalent form , but has been shown to have a high degree of activity .
It is possible that , given in the colloid form , it is deposited locally and fails to reach the trypanosomes .
This would also explain the intense local action , which was more marked from this than from any other preparation .
A glyceride of antimony , analogous to boroglyceride , was formed by heating glycerine with the oxide , and proved fairly effective in destroying the trypanosomes in the rats , but it was very irritant and caused hsemo-globinuria , and the solution in glycerine tended to deposit the oxide when diluted .
1909 .
] Antimony Compounds in Trypanosomiasis in Rats .
251 A few experiments were made with Schlippe 's salt , sodium sulphanti-monate ( ( NaS)3SbS ) ; it destroyed the trypanosomes in the rat very satisfactorily ( see Table I ) , but induced very considerable local reaction , and therefore appears to be precluded from use in therapeutics .
This result agrees with that obtained by Broden and Bodhain* in man .
Table I.\#151 ; Summary of Results of Treatment with Schlippe 's Salt .
I. II .
III .
IY .
Number of rats that died Number of rats surviving Number of rats Number of rats without recurrence , but over one month after in which treated .
before any deduction cessation of treatment recurrence could be made .
without , recurrence .
occurred .
20 6 3 ii Of the rats included in Column III : One survived 39 days , one 33 days and one 76 days .
The cause of death did not seem to be the disease or its treatment .
Of the rats included in Column IY : Recurrence took place in 10 , 21 , 9 , 10 , 10 , 13 , 7 , 13,16 , and 14 days , and all died within two weeks of the cessation of treatment from the recurrence ( or from the last recurrence , for many had more than one recurrence ) , with the exception of one which was alive and well 244 days after cessation of treatment of the recurrence\#151 ; the latter by another drug ( sodium antimonyl tartrate ) .
In Schlippe 's salt and in the glyceride , antimony is pentavalent , and these were efficient trypanocides , especially the former , while the metanti-moniate , where antimony is also pentavalent , possessed a low efficiency .
The sulphantimoniate differs from the metantimoniate in its great instability , and it seems probable that the marked local reaction arising from it is due in great part to its being decomposed at the point of injection with the deposit of the insoluble antimony sulphide Sb2S3 , which produces a slow , lasting reaction .
Enough reaches the general tissues , however , to react with the parasites , and here its instability , permitting of its forming new compounds , renders it peculiarly active .
The metantimoniate , on the other hand , is much more stable , and probably fails to be reduced to the trivalent form .
The greater number of our experiments were done with the combinations of antimony with the organic acids corresponding to the ordinary tartar * 'Arch .
f. Schiffs- u. Tropenhygiene , ' vol. 12 , No. 14 , 1908 .
x 2 252 Mr. Thomson and Dr. Cushny .
On the Action of [ Nov. 23 , emetic .
Among these the best combinations were found to be those with oxyacids of the fatty series , those of the aromatic series proving much less soluble .
Among the salts examined were the lactate , citrate , malate , and mucate , the results of which were compared with those obtained by the tartrate .
They were formed by boiling antimony oxide with the acids , and subsequently neutralising with sodium hydrate , or sometimes by forming the acid sodium salt , and boiling it with freshly prepared antimony oxide .
The mucate , which was investigated with the idea that its multiple hydroxyl groups might prove to have special powers of retaining antimony in solution , may be dismissed , as , though powerfully trypanocidal , it induced very great local irritation .
The citrate seemed to be inferior to the malates and tartrates , which were approximately equal in value .
Table II.\#151 ; Summary of Reshits of Treatment with Sodium Antimonyl Malate .
I. II .
hi .
IY .
Number of rats treated .
Number of rats that died without recurrence , but before any deduction could be made .
Number of rats surviving one month after cessation of treatment without recurrence .
Number of rats in which there was recurrence .
23 !
9 5 9 Of the rats included in Column III : One survived 241 days ; one 113 days ; one 115 days ; one 66 days ; and one was alive and well , 235 days after cessation of treatment .
Of the rats included in Column IV : Recurrence took place in 12 , 11 , 7 , 17 , 5 , 11 , 9 , 36 , and 10 days , and all died within two weeks of cessation of treatment of recurrence ( or of the last recurrence ) , except one which lived 231 days after cessation of treatment of the recurrence by another drug ( Schlippe 's salt ) .
Among the tartrates and malates , the sodium and potassium salts were equally efficient trypanocides , and there was no appreciable difference in their local effects , but the substitution of an alkyl radical for the potassium or sodium of the salt seemed to be attended with some advantage .
Solutions of ethylantimonyl tartrate were kindly prepared for us by Prof. Collie by heating freshly precipitated antimony oxide with ethyl tartrate , to about 150 ' C. in sealed tubes .
The solutions are distinctly acid , but can be neutralised or rendered slightly alkaline with ammonia , and can be sterilised 1909 .
] Antimony Compounds in Trypanosomiasis in Rats .
253 by boiling without any cloudiness resulting .
It is a very efficient trypanocide and causes no local irritation in the rat .
After the injection of 1 c.c. of a 0'2-per-cent , solution* into rats of 100 to 200 grammes weight , trypanosomes , though previously numerous , entirely disappear from the peripheral blood within one to two hours .
Estimated by the amount of antimony present in the solutions , the ethyl is more powerfully trypanocidal than the sodium salt , which may suggest either that less is deposited at the point of application , or that it reaches the trypanosomes in a more readily penetrating form .
Though more poisonous to the rat than sodium antimonyl tartrate , the range of dose , or the difference between the effective trypanocidal dose and the lethal dose , is not less than that of the other antimony preparations .
The optimum dose may be found to correspond to Browning 's therapeutic dose , viz. : two-thirds of the maximum dose that average animals tolerate .
From our own work , and that of others , we think that sufficient data have been obtained to indicate some points which must be taken into consideration in attempting further advance in the treatment of trypanosomiasis :\#151 ; ( 1 ) As regards the compound it must be non-irritant and capable of remaining in perfect solution at the temperature and alkalinity of the tissues .
( 2 ) It must act quickly on the trypanosomes , for otherwise these parasites seem to acquire a tolerance to it .
It is possible that some drugs may require to be altered in the tissues before they begin to affect the parasites ; but with this proviso , we suggest , as a working rule , that no drug which , given in full therapeutic dose , does not destroy the trypanosomes in the blood within two hours is likely to prove an advance on remedies already in use .
( 3 ) When the trypanosomes have been expelled from the blood by a single full therapeutic dose , there must be no Recurrence in the majority of cases within some fixed time , which will vary with the particular host , and the species and strain of trypanosome in use ; the length of this period must be determined by each investigator by reference to some of the known trypanocides .
In our experiments it proved waste of time to persevere with any drug whose administration in a single full dose was followed by a recurrence in the majority of cases within a week .
The longer the time during which there is no recurrence in the majority of animals treated the more promising is the outlook for the drug under trial .
But the nonrecurrence in a single individual is of comparatively small importance .
In our experiments the majority of the rats that survived the injection * The strength of the solution was ascertained by estimation of the antimony .
254 Mr. Thomson and Dr. Cushny .
Action of [ Nov. 23 , for three weeks showed recurrence within that time , except when ethyl antimonyl tartrate was employed , when the results were slightly more favourable .
In the recent report* from Uganda , the conclusion is drawn that the medicinal treatment pursued up to that time had proved of little lasting benefit in the great majority of even the early cases of Sleeping Sickness .
From this it seems a fair inference that remedies which suffice to change an acute trypanosomiasis into a more chronic form may ameliorate symptoms , but do not necessarily greatly prolong the natural course of a chronic infection such as Sleeping Sickness .
In seeking for a remedy for the chronic condition , by experiments with acute infections , nothing short of an immediate and complete disinfection should be the object , and it is with this view that we venture to suggest the foregoing considerations .
Applying these principles to the ethyl antimony compound , it appears to comply with the first fairly satisfactorily .
It expelled the trypanosomes from the blood within two hours .
As regards recurrence after a single full dose , of 13 rats inoculated , 6 showed a recurrence , on the 14th , 16th , 16th , 22nd , 26th , and 29th day .
There was no recurrence in the 7 others .
Table III.\#151 ; Summary of Results of Treatment with Ethylantimonyl Tartrate .
I. II .
III .
IV .
Number of rats treated .
Number of rats that died without recurrence , but before any deduction could be made .
Number of rats surviving over a month after treatment without recurrence .
Number of rats in which there was recurrence .
13 0 7 6 * Of the rats included in Column III , one died of pneumonia on the 84th day , and five of the others from exposure to cold between the 135th and 165th day , leaving one survivor after 260 days .
Of the rats in Column IY , recurrence took place after 14 , 16 , 16 , 22 , 26 , and 29 days respectively .
No other drug has given such favourable results in our experiments , but we recognise that it will be necessary to test it against other species and strains and in different hosts before any general statement as to its usefulness can be made .
* Quarterly Report on the Progress of Segregation Camps and Medical Treatment of Sleeping Sickness in Uganda ( Quarter December 1 , 1907 , to February 29 , 1908 ) .
1909 .
] Antimony Compounds in Trypanosomiasis in Rats .
255 We have also treated some rats with a solution combining the best of the arsenical and antimonial trypanocides at present known to us , viz. , ethyl-antimonyl tartrate and atoxyl .
Twelve rats were inoculated with the Nagana strain , and on the third day after , when a fair number of trypanosomes were present in the blood , they received a single injection of 0*75 c.c. of a solution containing 2 per cent , of atoxyl dissolved in 0'2 per cent , of ethyl antimonyl tartrate .
Table IV.\#151 ; Summary of Results of Treatment with Atoxyl + Ethylantimonyl Tartrate .
I. ii .
III .
IV .
Number of rats treated .
Number of rats that died without recurrence , but before any deduction could be made .
Number of rats surviving over a month after treatment without recurrence .
Number of cases of recurrence .
12 2 8 2 Of the rats included under Column III , two died in 31 , one each in 39 , 43 , 56 , 89 days , and two survived after 260 days .
Thus , while the number of recurrences was fewer than from the antimony alone , the combination of the two drugs seemed to tend to be toxic .
This was more obvious in a series of 19 rats treated with a single injection of 0*75 c.c. of 3-percent .
atoxyl in 03-per-cent .
ethylantimonyl tartrate solution .
Of these , 11 died within 24 hours of the injection , and as the blood was free from trypanosomes , they evidently succumbed to the treatment .
Table V.\#151 ; Summary of Results of Treatment with Larger Doses of Atoxyl and Antimony .
i. II .
III .
IV .
Number of rats treated .
Number of rats that died without recurrence , but too soon for any deduction .
Number surviving over a month without recurrence .
Number of cases of recurrence .
19 16 2 i Of the two rats included in Column III , one died on the 113th day , and one survived after 225 days .
The recurrence noted in Column IV was noted 256 Col. Sir D. Bruce and others .
[ Dec. 18 , on the 25 th day .
One of those in Column II had trypanosomes in the blood the day after treatment and died that day .
The results of the combined medication were thus scarcely superior to those of the ethylantimonyl tartrate alone , for though there were fewer recurrences when atoxyl was added , the mortality from poisoning was higher , so that only two survived for two months as against six of those treated with antimony alone .
It is possible that by a more accurate adjustment of the two drugs the advantages of diminished recurrence and low toxicity might be^ combined .
Amakebe : A Disease of Calves in Uganda .
By Colonel Sir David Bruce , C.B. , F.R.S. , Army Medical Service ; Captains A. E. Hamerton , D.S.O. , and H. R. Bateman , Royal Army Medical Corps ; and Captain E. P. Mackie , Indian Medical Service .
Sleeping Sickness Commission of the Royal Society , 1908\#151 ; 09 .
( Received December 18 , 1909 , \#151 ; Read January 20 , 1910 .
) [ Plate 10 .
] Introductory .
Amakebe is the most important disease of cattle in Uganda .
It attacks the calves soon after they are born , and destroys more than half of them .
Among the native cattle the loss is reported to be as much as 75 per cent. , but , with careful nursing and hand-feeding , this mortality may be reduced to between 20 and 30 per cent. This is an enormous toll to pay , and renders the breeding of cattle in Uganda for dairy purposes , or , indeed , for any purpose , very up-hill work .
Little up to the present has been written as to the nature and causation of Amakebe .
It has been described as a trypanosome disease , but this evidently on insufficient knowledge .
Distribution Uganda .
Amakebe appears to occur all over the Kingdoms of Uganda , Unyoro , Ankole , and Busoga .
Lieutenant A. D. Eraser , Royal Army Medical Corps , the medical officer lately in charge of the Sleeping Sickness Camp , Sesse , reports , however , the curious fact that it does not occur among the cattle on the Sesse Islands .
Mr. C. W. Hattersley also informs the Commission that

