]\gt ; The of Distribution in the Case in which one of the Phascs possesses Rigidity : Adsorption Occlusion .
By MORRIS W. TBAVEBS , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in University College , Bristol .
( Received Apri123 , \mdash ; Read lIay 10 , 1906 .
) oduction .
The teru ] " " occlusion\ldquo ; has been applied somewhat indiscriminately to denote the state in which a gas exists in a solid , by which it has been absorbed , or from which it is evolved on , and no doubt the term includes phenomena of a totally different character .
Similarly , the term " " adsorption\ldquo ; is commonly used to differentiate between ] cases of solution and the removal of substances from solutions by solids in contact with them .
It is the object of this paper to point out rities which exist between certain cases , which may be included in these two groups , and to make some gestions as to the classification of the phenomena .
In the first place we may dispose of certain instances in which solids evolve gases when they are heated , the change being irreversible .
In 1898* I succeeded in showing that the evolution of such gases as and carbon monoxide from minerals on heating did not require the assumption of their previous existence in the minerals at all ; hence , there was no need to introduce term occlusion to explain it .
I proved the gases were produced by the interaction of water vapour and carbon dioxide with such substances as ferrous oxide , the change followed quantitatively .
Later , I put forward an explanation of the evolution of helium from minerals , in which it cannot be supposed to be present in a state of chenlical combination .
Ramsay and Soddy had shown that helium was one of the products of radio-active change , and had ested that its presence in the minerals was due to the decay of some radio-active substance which they had formerly contained .
This explanation did not , however , account for the retention of the gas in the mineral , and the clue to the solution of this part of the problem was given by Jaquerod 's that heliunl would pass through the walls of a quartz bulb at a comparatively low temperature , though this material is quite impermeable to it in the cold .
It follows that the gas may be present in the mineral in a state of supersaturation , may 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 64 , p. 131 .
'Nature , ' January , 1905 .
' Comptes Rendus , ' , vol. 139 , p. 261 .
10 Prof M. W. Travers .
of Distribution uhere [ Apr. 23 , remain in that state for an indefinite time , if the temperature is moderately low .
When , however , the mineral is heated , the gas can diffuse freely through it , and there is a tendency to establish equilibrium between tho two phases .
Many cases in which solids , or at least substances which are apparently solids , absorb and evolve gases reversibly have been investigated , and the experimental data are , in some of them , sufficient for the purpose of comparison .
However , I only intend to consider the absorption of gases by palladium , platinum , and carbon , and as in the last case the measurements of the pressure-concentration relationships for small concentrations did not seem to be of sufficient accuracy , or to cover a sufficiently wide range of temperature , for my purpose , I have made some measurements quantity of hydrogen and carbon dioxide absorbed by , between 10 C. and C. , and at pressures up to one atmosphere , for myself .
I shall refer to the work of others as I come to discuss it , but I can state here that Dewar 's demonstration of the very complete absorption of gases by carbon at low temperatures made it clear that the results obtainable with this substance would prove of high interest .
* Experimental Part\mdash ; The Apparatus .
The apparatus ( fig. 1 ) employed in this investigation was very similar to the gas thermometer , described in the paper by Senter , Jaquerod , and myself , on the vapour pressures of liquid and liquid oxygen .
As , however , it was considerably modified for this purpose I shall be obliged to give a brief description of it .
The carbon was contained in the bulb , which was about cm .
in diameter , and cm .
long .
For convenience in filling it with carbon , the part of the stem for the first centimetre next to it was about cm .
in diameter .
After the carbon had been introduced , and covered with a plug of asbestos to prevent it from rising into the capillary stem the latter was sealed to it .
The first quantitative investigation of the absorption of gases by charcoal appears to have been carried out by Th. de Saussure ( Gilbert 's ' Annalen der Phvsik , ' 1814 , vol. 47 , p. 112 ; Thomson 's ' of Philosophy , ' 1815 , vol. 6 , ) .
He showed that Henry 's law , which he verified by means of his apparatus , did not apply to this phenomenon .
His values for the relationships between the pressu1e and the volume of oxygen absorbed at about F. are fairly well reproduced by the expression we have been considering .
Thus\mdash ; ( inches of mercury ) .
27 .
0.072 Phil. Traus , vol. 200 , p. 142 .
one of the Phases possesses Mechanical Rigidity .
The tube which formed the dead-space was calibrated before it was sealed to the rest of the apparatus .
The volume of the space above the surface of the mercury , when the latter was in contact with the point , 12 Prof. M. W. Travers .
of Distribution where [ Apr. 23 , was determined .
and also the volume of 1 mm. of the tube below it ; so that if the distance of the surface of the mercury from the point was known , the volume of the space above could be calculated .
The pressure exerted by the gas in the apparatus was measured by bringing the mercury in close to the point , and observing the height to which the column rose in the barometer tube .
The volume of mercury in the apparatus was adjusted by means of a reservoir connected through a rubber tube and stop-cock at ; bubbles of air were caught in the tube The gas was introduced , and the apparatus exhausted , through a stopcock , to which were connected a syphon , for drawing the gas out of tubes in which it was contained over mercury , and a tube , leading through an arrangement for catching drops of mercury to the pump .
The Preparation of the Carbon .
The carbon was prepared by calcining the soft part of the cocoanut , at a temperature not above a dull red heat , till vapour ceased to be evolved , and then cooling the product as quickly as possible .
After it had been introduced into the bulb , and the latter sealed to the stem and dead-space , it was heated to C. in vacuo for some hours , by surrounding the bulb with a bath of sulphur vapour , and maintaining a vacuum in the apparatus by means of the pump .
The mass of the carbon was determined at the end of the experiments by transferring the contents of the bulb to a closely-covered platinum crucible , drying it at 15 C. , hing , and afterwards determining the loss of weight on combustion in air .
The Preparation and Method of Measurement of the Intending to investigate the absorption of a number of gases by carbon , I selected , as two extreme cases , and carbon dioxide , for the first experiments .
Soon after I commenced my work , however , I heard from Sir W. Ramsay that he and Miss I. Homfray , B.Sc. , were engaged on a similar research , so I decided to limit my own investigation to the two gases mentioned above .
In either case the gas was obtained from a Kipp 's apparatus , which had been in use so long that the gas delivered from it might be considered to be free from air .
The gases were dried by passing through tubes containing pentoxide of phosphorus , and were collected in tubes over mercury .
Successive volumes of gas , each of about 5 , were delivered into the apparatus , and after the addition of each quantity , a series of measurements of the , relationships was made .
These quantities of gas were measured 1906 .
] one of the Phases Rigidity .
in a constant-pressure gas-burette , such as I have described in " " Experimental Study of Gases\ldquo ; .
The temperature of the water and the height of the barometer were observed simultaneously .
In the whole of the calculations involved in this research the coefficient of expansion of carbon dioxide is taken to be and that of hydrogen to be 1/ 273 ; it has also been assumed that , within the limits of the pressures investigated , the product could be taken as constant .
The Method of Calculating the Results .
To obtain the relationship between the pressure exerted by the gas in the apparatus and its concentration in the carbon , it was necessary to obtain the ollowing d ( a ) The mass of the carbon : this amounted to grammes .
and was associated with gramme of ash .
* ( b ) The mass of toas introduced into the apparatus , a factor which could be deduced directly from the burette , the temperature , the pressure , and the density of the gas .
( c ) The volume of the dead-space , and of that portion of the stem which remained at the air temperature .
'this is given by the formula , where is the distance of the surface of the mercury from the point .
( d ) The volume of the bulb , and of that part of the stem which was at the same temperature , was determined by an indirect method .
Two .
successive quantities of hydrogen , previously measul.ed in the burette , .
were introduced into the apparatus , and while both bulb and dead-space were at the air temperatul.e , the pressure and the temperature vere .
carefully observed .
Now from the formula:\mdash ; where are the pressure , volume , and temperature of the in the burette , and and are the pressnre and temperature in the apparatus , it is possible to calculate the ] of the gas in the bulb .
Thus : C. C. The result shows that at the higher pressure the bulb contains more hydrogen than at the lower pressure , as of course it should do , since gas is slightly soluble in the carbon .
However , as we shall see14 Prof. M. W. Travers .
Law Distribution where [ Apr. 28 , later , it is probable that at this temperature the amount absorbed can be taken as proportional to the pressure , so that we can calculate the true volume of the free space in the bulb , which works out at The formula given above may be used to calculate the quantity of gas in the bulb , which must be subtracted from the quantity introduced into the apparatus in order to calculate the quantity absorbed by the carbon ; it then takes the form : where and are the temperature of the bulb and dead-space respectively .
As a matter of fact , no correction was made for the change of volume of the bulb , for the expansion of the carbon , or for the volume of the gas .
So long as the pressures remained low and the correction , which is the product on the left-hand side of the equation , small , this could have but little effect upon the result , but it obviously vitiate results dependent on the measurement of rher pressures , and which , as will appear presently .
must be very exact , if they are to be of any value at all .
Method of Conducting th eriments .
The object of each experiment was to determine the relationship between the pressure and the quantity of absorbed at a particular temperature .
The temperatures at which experiments were made corresponded to , and , in the case of hydl.ogen , to about \mdash ; 190o .
The first three } ) were obtained by water , chlorofolm , and ether , respectively , in a vapour jacket surrounding the bulb .
corrections were not applied , as the small variation of temperature with pressure did not materially affect the results , and to apply corrections would have entailed a great deal more experimental work .
The ice-point was of course obtained by immersing the bulb in ice .
A mixture of solid carbon dioxide and alcohol in a vacuum vessel will , if the latter is well exhausted , remain at for some hours ; and liquid air , contained in a two-litre globular vacuum vessel , will only be reduced to about half its volume in hree days , and the temperature will not have risen more than The time which elapsed before equilibrium was established varied considerably under different conditions .
In the case of the absorption of hydrogen by carbon at the temperature of liquid air it was often some hours before the column of mercury came to rest .
the case of carbon dioxide equilibrium was always most rapidly established at the lower tempera1906 .
] one of the Phases possesses Rigidity .
tures .
Thus , working at , the bulb of the apparatus was allowed to remain in the bath of solid carbon dioxide and alcohol for about three hours Experiment .
when it was noticed that the pressure did not vary after the first few minutes of the experiment .
After reading the pressure the bath was removed , and when the bulb had ained the temperature of the air it was again coolsd .
In a few minutes the was identical with that observed at the first } .
At 10 equilibrium was more slowly established , the pressure appearing to rise at first and then to fall slowly .
So as to eliminate errors arising from such a source , the bulb was usually allowed to remain at the temperature of the vapour for at least three hours , or , in fact , till equilibrium appeared to be established . ?
nith Carbon Dioxide .
The following experiments were carried out in the manner described above , and form one continuous series , successive quantities of the gas being added after each set of measurements at the four temperatures .
The results are plotted on the accompanying diagram , and it may be said that there is at least some internal evidence that they are satisfactory .
16 Prof. M. W. Travers .
Law of Dist.ibution where [ Apr. 23 , The mass of carbon contained in the bulb was , as has already been stated , 1400 grammes ; the volume of the bulb and of the dead-space have beeu given on p. 13 .
with Hydrogen .
A similar set of experiments WftS made with hydrogen , but only at the teluperature of liquid air .
For at higher temperatures it appears that the pressure-concentration curve is nearly linear , and results would only be of value if they were of a sufficiently accurate character to enable one to distinguish between the linear relationship and deviations from it .
The results when plotted give a curve very sinlilar to that obtained for carbon dioxide at the ice-point .
In each experiment the ttus was left at rest with the bulb immersed in liquid air for 24 hours before a reading was taken , and it will be observed 1906 .
] one of the Phases possesses Rigidity .
that , even with this precaution , the results are not so satisfactory as those obtained in the case of carbon dioxide .
The slight irregularities which occur at 12 to 14 mm. cannot be attributed to the inconstancy of the temperature .
Discussion of the Results .
On examining the results , one is at once struck by the similarity between the pressure-concentration curves for the gases hydrogen and carbon dioxide in solution in carbon and those which have been obtained by Hoitsema*and by Ramsay , Mond , and Shields , for the absorption of gases by palladium and platinum .
The curves are in each case represented by the formula constant , where is the pressure of the gas corresponding to the concentration in the " " solid\ldquo ; phase , and increases as the temperature falls .
Thus we have for carbon dioxide .
The formula does not apply so well to the pressure-concentration curve for C. , a fair approximation is obtained by calculating the values of It vould appear , then , that is almost exactly equal to 3 for the isothermal at C. , and to 2 for the isothermal at 10 C. It follows that at higher eratures it probably reaches the limiting value , unity , when carbon dioxide will dissolve in carbon in strict accordance with the law of distribution .
If we apply the same method to the results obtained with hydrogen .
'Zeit .
Phys. Chem 1895 , vol. 17 , p. 1 .
'Phil .
Trans vol. 186 , p. 657 ; vol. 190 , p. 120 ; vol. 191 , p. 105 .
VOL. LXXVIII.\mdash ; A. 18 Prof M. W. Travers .
of Distribution where [ Apr. 23 , we find that this gas at C. behaves similarly to carbon dioxide at C. Hoitsema*ated the pressure-concentration relationships for hydrogen and palladium , at temperatures between and C. The curve he obtained for the isothermal C. is similar to that for carbon dioxide and carbon at C. , and the isothermal for C. is not to be distinguished from it at low pressures .
The isothermal for C. , and those at higher temperatures , consist of three portions ; that corresponding to low pressures , at which , as in the of carbon dioxide and carbon , increases more rapidly than ; a horizontal portion , where increases without increase in ) , corresponding to the condensation of a gas ; and a portion which is nearly perpendicular , where hardly increases at all with increase of .
It is the first portion , corresponding to small concentration , which is of interest to us at the moment .
Hoitsema points out that this portion of the curve is represented by the same formula which we have found to represent the pressure-concentration curves for carbon dioxide and carbon , he states his results in terms of the volume occupied by two ammes of hydrogen .
The following table contains a summary of his results:\mdash ; It will be observed that while is constant for the values obtained for and at C. over the whole ange investigated , and for comlioc .
1906 .
] one of the possesses Rigidity .
paratively low pressures at temperatures , there is a tendency under the latter conditions for the product to attain a more constant value , particularly at the higher pressures .
Hoitsema gests that his results indicate that hydrogen , in solution in palladimn , is dissociated into atonls , but that as the concentration increases association takes place , and the solution contains complexes of the formula .
This hypothesis finds support in Nernst 's of the distribution of such substances as'benzoic acid between water , which it appears to exist as simple molecules , and benzene , in which it appears to exist as complexes of the formula .
It appears , howevcr , that this is highly improbable , for , if it were so , it would necessarily follow that this gas , dissolved in amorphous carbon at C. , must be supposed to be dissociated into fractions of an atom .
Mond , Ramsay , and atsd the absorption of by palladium and came to the conclusion that the gas was absorbed with the formation of a mixture of oxides .
The substance formed appears to be a brown powder , totally different from palladimn , and no oxy could be removed from it at a red heat .
They considered that if it were possible to leave the metal enough in contact with oxygen it be completely converted into the oxide , .
Thermochemical lrements supported this view .
They also investigated the absorption of hydrogen by platinum , and though their work deals chiefly with the effect of temperature on the evolution of hydrogen from the metal , they determined the pressul.econcentration relationships for pressures up to mm. at C. The curve their results is very similar to the pressure-concentration curve for carbon dioxide carbon at .
or for palladium and hydrogen at C. ; 13 .
of gas were absorbed before any rise in pressure was observed , the curve at first slowly and then rapidly .
It appeals then that these three cases present marked nilarities .
Discussion of the Rcsults .
has shown that when animal charcoal absorbs iodine from solution the distribution of the solute between the solid and liquid phases is iven by the formula olid)( solution ) constant , 'Zeit..Phvs .
Chem 1891 , vol. 8 , p. 110 .
'Zeit .
Phys. Chem vol. 15 , p. 60 20 Prof. M. W. Travers .
of Distribution ?
where [ Apr. 2:3 , an expression which is identical in form with the one which we have ] to the distribution of a gas between a solid and a liquid phase .
He also calls attention to the fact that the general formula , olid)( solution)constant , represents the condition of equilibrium , not only between charcoal and such substances as acids , etc. , but between dyes and textile materials in contact with solutions of them .
Zacharias* carried the matter further , and in a paper entitled " " Uber den Zustand und die Eigenschaften dcr Kolloide\ldquo ; not only discusses the abso1ption of dyes by textile materials , but points out the connection between such phenomena and the absorption of hydrogen by palladium .
He considers that in such cases the condition of equilibrium may be arrived at by that when the solid , or colloid as he considers it to be , is into contact with the gas or solution , the gas or solute diffuses into it , and forms a diffusion column , so that the concentration of it in the solid phase decreases as the distance from the surface increases .
There appears , however , to be no ground for the assumption that the modification of the simple law applies only to colloidal substances ; rather it appears capable of application to any system in which one phase is rigid .
and in which , in consequence , the law of distribution may be determined in some way by diffusion .
Zacharias 's analysis relates to a state of steady flow across a surface , and not to a condition of equilibrium , and does not furn ish mathematical proof that under the latter condition the logarithmic relationship would apply .
As phases possessing rigidity we can describe crystalline solids , super-cooled liquids , and probably for this purpose colloidal , or jelly-like , masses , though the latter may , in themselves , consist of more than one phase .
In my opinion such solid phases as we have considered fall under the second heading , and may be considered as without discontinuity iu their properties from the liquid phase .
No analogous case of a crystalline solid appears to have been investigated .
It need scarcely be pointed out that such cases as that of the distribution of iodine between liquid and solid follow the simple law of distribution , the case in which in the eneral expression , for the reason that iodine does not diffuse into the solid benzene , but that the solid is formed directly from the liquid solution .
It is probable that the absorption of gases by the platinum which is " " splashed off\ldquo ; from the electrodes of a vacuum-tube during the passage of the discharge takes place in a similar manner , each layer becoming saturated as 'Zeit .
Phys. Chem vol. ) , p. 468 .
, .
478 .
Bylert , ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem vol. 8 , p. 343 .
1906 .
] one of the Phases possesses Rigidity .
it is deposited .
On , the gas is evolved , and as the metal appears to change at the same time from the amorphous to the metallic condition , the chano.eo is practically irreversible .
One give man other examples of phenomena to which the terms adsorption\ldquo ; and " " occlusion\ldquo ; have been applied , and which be explicable without the introduction of any principle other than that which have been .
To take one final example : value of in the genel'al expression , at any particular temperature , increases with the molecular complexity of the gas or substance ill solution .
Hence it is not to find that when animal charcoal absorbs " " matters\ldquo ; from solutions of organic substances , the quantity of the latter which is removed from the solution appears to be proportional to the quantity of charcoal only , the latter being capable of re1moving practically the whole of the colourin matter if it is present in sufficient quantity .
Further , if the charcoal has been too heated it loses its power of absorbing colouring matters and , indeed , substances generally , either in the gaseous state or in solution , and this may be explained by the fact that the action of heat results either in the partial conyersion of the carbon into a more stable crystalline phase , into which substances diffuse less readily , or in causing it to become more compact , in which case the surface is limited , and each\ldquo ; diffusion column\ldquo ; becomes longer .
[ Note added May , 1906.\mdash ; Within the last few weeks a paper entitled " " Vapour Pressure in Equilibrium with Substances Moisture \ldquo ; been published by Prof. Trouton , and as it may appear that he and I differ in the explanation of apparently identical phenomena , I have thought it advisable to append this brief explanation .
Prof. Trouton 's are similar to those obtained by Hoitsema and referred to on p. 18 .
The lower portion of the PX isothermal curve for the system water-cotton appears to have the form represented by the equation const .
, and so far as it is concerned Prof. Trouton ests that ' there is distinct indication of some further action or law coming into operation that is to say , some law distinct from that which he has established for the upper portion of the curve .
The fact is , that while I have been considering the condition of equilibrium consequent on the formation of a diffusion column within the material of the " " rigid phase Prof. Trouton is concerned with the phenomenon of surface condensation , which implies the formation of a new phase .
This new phase does not appear till a certain concentration of the component which suffers 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 77 , p. 292 . .
cit. , p. 229 .
Prof. E. Wilson .
[ May 9 , distribution is reached in the phase , and the new phase , as .
Prof. Trouton has shown , must be considered as bivariant till the lilm has attained a certain thickness .
It would be interesting to speculate as to the subsequent course of Prof. Trouton 's curves , and I hope that his further researches will throw light on the subject .
] Effects of Self-induction in Iron Cylinder .
* By Professor ERNEST WILSON , King 's , London .
( Communicated by Sir William H. Preece , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 9 , \mdash ; Read June 7 , 1906 .
) If a solid cylindrical conductor be divided into imaginary concentric tubulal conductors , the ordinary self and mutual induction theory shows that ] the conductor is subjected to an alternating potential difference , the interior shells carry electric currents of snlaller density than the exterior ones , and the currents suffer a phase displacement greater the nearer the centre of the cylinder .
The theory shows that the permeability and conductivity of the material play an important part , the effects nlentioned being increased in magnitude with increasing permeabiIity and conductivity .
When , however , the material of the conductor has variable permeability the problem becomes more complicated , and it is the object of this paper to examine more closely what on in an iron cylinder when electric currents are reversed in it , and maintained steady after reversal .
A second part of this research will deal with alternating currents of varying frequency and wave-form .
The cylinder employed is of mild steel and has a diameter and length each equal to 10 inches cm It is provided with holes drilled in a plane containing its axis of figure in such a manner that exploring coils can be threaded to enclose certain portions of that plane .
The coils are three in number .
They are each 2 inches wide in a direction parallel with the axis of figure and midway between the ends of the cylinder .
Their depths in a radial direction are 1 , 2 , and 2 inches , and their average radii are , 2 and 4 inches respectively .
These coils are referred to as Coils Nos. 1 , 2 , and 3 , No. 1 near the centre of the cylinder .
The cylinder has been already described , but for the purpose of * In mection with this research , I wish to acknowledge a grant voted to me by the Council of the Royal Society out of the Government Grant Fund .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 69 , p. 440 .

