II .
" A Description of some Fossil Plants , showing structure , found in the Lower Coal-seams of Lancashire and Yorkshire .
" By E. W. BINNEY , F.R.S. Received May 12 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) The author stated that , although great attention has been devoted to the collection of the fossil remains of plants with which our coal-fields abouind , the specimens are generally in very fragmentary and distorted conditions as they occur imbedded in the rocks in which they are entombed ; but when they have been removed , cut into shape , and trimmed , and are seen in cabinets , they are in a far worse corndition .
This is as to their external forms and characters .
When we come to examine their internal structure , and ascertain their true nature , we find still greater difficulties , from the rarity of specimens displaying both the external form and the internal structure of the original plant .
It is often very difficult to decide which is the outside , different parts of the stem dividing and exposing varied surfaces which have been described as distinct genera of plants .
The specimenis described were collected by the author himself , and taken out of the seams of coal , just as they occurred in the matrix in which they were found imbedded , by his own hands .
This has enabled him to speak with certainty as to the condition and locality in which they were met with .
By the ingenuity of the late Mir .
Nicol of Edinburgh , we were furnished with a beautiful method of slicing specimens of fossil-wood so as to examine their internal structure .
The late Mr. Witham , assisted by Mr. Nicol , first applied this successfully , and his work on the internal structure of fossil vegetables was published in 1833 .
In describing his specimens , he notices onie which he designated .
Anabathra pulcherrima .
This did not do much more tharn afford evidence of the internal vascular cylinder arranged in radiating series , somewhat similar to that described by Messrs. Lindley and Hutton as occurring in Stigmaria ficoides , in the third volume of the 'Fossil Flora .
' In 1839 M. Adolphe Brongniart published his truly valuable memoir , " Observations sir la structure inte'rieure du Sigillaria etegans comparee a celle des Lepidodendronr et des Stigmaria et a celle des vege'taux vivants , " in the Archives du Museum d'IHistoire Naturelle .
His specimen of Sigillaria elegans was in very perfect preservation , and showed its external characters and initerlnal structure in every portion except the pith and a broad part of the plant intervening betwixt the internal and external radiating cylinders .
Up to this time nothing had been seen at all to be compared to M. Brongniart 's specimen , and no person could have been better selected to describe .
and illustrate it .
His memoir will always be considered as one of the most valuable ever contributed on the fossil flora of the Carboniferous period .
In 1849 , August Joseph Corda published his 'lBeitraige sir Flora der Vorwelt , ' a work of great labour and research .
Amongst his numerous specimens , he describes and illustrates one of Diploxeylon eyeadeoi(deum , which , although not to be compared to M. Brongniiart 's specimen , still affords us valuable information , conifirming some of that author 's views rather than affording much more original iniformation .
All these last three specimens M. Bronigniart , in his ' Tableau de vegetaux fossiles considerees sous le point de vue de leur classification botaniique et de leur distribution geologique , ' published in 1847 , classes as Dicotyledones gymrnospernzes under the family of Sigillar^ees ; amongst other plants his Sigillaria elegans , Mr. Witham 's Anabathra , and Corda 's Diploxylon .
In 1862 the author published , in the 'Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society ' of that year , an account of specimens which confirmed the views of the three learined authors above named as to Sigillaria and Diploxylon being allied plaints ; but showed that their supposed pith or central axis was not composed of cellular tissue , but of different sized vessels arranged without order , having their sides barred by transverse strihe like the internal vascular cylinders of Sigillaria and Lepidodendron .
These specimens were in very perfect preservation , and showed the external as well as the internal characters of the plants .
All the above specimens were of comparatively small size , with the exception of that described by TMr .
Corda , which , although it showed the external characters in a decorticated state , did not exhibit any outward resemblance to a plant allied to Sigillaria with large ribs and deep furrows so commonly met with in our coal-fields , but rather to plants allied to Sigillaria elegans and Lepidodendron .
In the present communication the author has described some specimens of larger size than those previously alluded to , and endeavoured to show that the Sigillaria vascutlaris with rhomboidal scars gradually passes as it grows older into ribbed and furrowed Sigillaria , and that this singular plant not only possesses two woody cylinders arranged in radiating series , an internal and an exterlnal one divided by a zone of cellular tissue , both increasing on their outsides at the same time , but likewise has a central axis composed of hexagonal vessels , arranged without order , having all their sides marked with transverse strise .
Evidelnce is also adduced to show that Sigillaria dichotomizes in its branches somiiething like Lepidodendron , and that , like the latter plant , a Lepidostro6us is its fructification .
The outer cylinder in large Sigillaria is composed of thick-walled quadrangular tubes or utricles arranged in radiating series , and exhibiting every appearanice of having been as hard-wooded a tree as Pinites , but as yet no disks or stripe have been observed on the walls of the tuibes .
Stigmaria is now so generally considered to be the root of Sigilla2 ia , that it is scarcely necessary to bring any further proof of this proposition ; but specimens are described which prove by similarity of structure that the former is the root of the latter .
The chief specimens described in the memoir are eight in number , and were found in the lower divisions of the Lancashire and Yorkshire coalmeasures imbedded in calcareous nodules occurring in seamus of coal .
No. 1 , Diploxcylon cycadoideum , was from the first-named district , and the same locality as the Trigonocarpon , described by Dr. J. D. Hooker , F.R.S. , and the author , in a memoir on the structure of certain limestone nodules enclosed in seams of bituminous coal , with a description of some Trigonocarpons contained therein* , and the other seven ( Sigillaria vascularis ) were from the same seam of coal in the lower coal-measures in which the specimens described in a paper entitled " On some Fossil Plants showing structure from the Lower Coal-measures of Lancashire " i , were met with , but from a different locality in Yorkshire .

