A paper was also read , entitled , " Note on the Art of Photography , or the application of the Chemical Rays of Light to the purposes of Pictorial Representation .
" By Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , K.H. , V.P.R.S. , &amp;c. The author states that his attention was first called to the subject of M. Daguerre 's concealed photographic processes , by a note from Captain Beaufort , dated the 22nd of January last , at which time he was ignorant that it had been considered by Mr. Talbot , or by any one in this country .
As an enigma to be solved , a variety of processes at once presented themselves , of which the most promising are the following ; 1st , the so-called de-oxidizing power of the chemical rays in their action on recently precipitated chloride of silver ; 2ndly , the instant and copious precipitation of a mixture of a solution of muriate of platina and lime-water by solar light , forming an insoluble compound , which might afterwards be blackened by a va ?
riety of agents ; 3rdly , the reduction of gold in contact with deoxidizing agents ; and , 4thly , the decomposition of an argentine compound soluble in water , exposed to light in an atmosphere of peroxide of chlorine , either pure or dilated .
Confining his attention , in the present notice , to the employment of chloride of silver , the author inquires into the methods by which the blackened traces can be preserved , which may be effected , he observes , by the application of any liquid capable of dissolving and washing off the unchanged chloride , but of leaving the reduced , or oxide of silver , untouched .
These conditions are best fulfilled by the liquid hyposulphites .
Pure water will fix the photograph , by washing out the nitrate of silver , but the tint of the picture resulting is brick-red ; but the black colour may be restored by washing it over with a weak solution of hyposulphite of ammonia .
The author found that paper impregnated with the chloride of silver was only slightly susceptible to the influence of light : but an accidental observation led him to the discovery of other salts of silver , in which the acid being more volatile , adheres to the base by a weak affinity , and which impart much greater sensibility to the paper on which they are applied : such as the carbonate , the nitrate , and the acetate .
The nitrate requires to be perfectly neutral ; for the least excess of acid lowers in a remarkable degree its susceptibility .
In the application of photographic processes to the copying of engravings or drawings , many precautions , and minute attention to a number of apparently trivial , but really important circumstances , are required to ensure success .
In the first tranfers , both light and shadow , as well as right and left , are the reverse of the original : and to operate a second transfer , or by a double inversion to reproduce the original effect , is a matter of infinitely greater difficulty ; and in which the author has only recently ascertained the cause of former failures , and the remedy to be applied .
It was during the prosecution of these experiments that the author was led to notice some remarkable facts relating to the action of the chemical rays .
He ascertained that , contrary to the prevailing opinion , the chemical action of light is by no means proportional to the quantity of violet rays transmitted , or even to the general tendency of the tint to the violet end of the spectrum : and his experiments lead to the conclusion that , in the same manner as media .
have been ascertained to have relations sui generis to the calorific rays , not regulated by their relations to the rays of illumination and of colour , they have also specific relations to the chemical spectrum , different from those they bear to the other kinds of spectra .
For the successful prosecution of this curious investigation , the first step must consist in the minute examination of the chemical actions of all the parts of a pure spectrum , not formed by material prisms , and he points out , for that purpose , one formed in Fraunhofer 's method , by the interference of the rays of light themselves in passing through gratings , and fixed by the heliostat .
He notices a curious phenomenon respecting the action of light on nitrated paper ; namely , its great increase of intensity , under a certain kind of glass strongly pressed in contact with it ; an effect which cannot be explained either by the reflection of light , or the presence of moisture ; but which may possibly be dependent on the evolution of heat .
Twenty-three specimens of photographs , made by Sir John Herschel , accompany this paper : one , a sketch of his telescope at Slough , fixed from its image in a lens ; and the rest copies of engravings and drawings , some reverse , or first transfers ; and others se ?
cond transfers or re-reversed pictures .

