346 Mr. J. E. H. Gordon on Electricity and Light .
[ Feb. 13t Behind the head , the segments for free motion cannot be moved by the developing segmental muscles until an intercalary segmentation has taken place ; hence the vertebral segments which come between the " muscle-plates " and spinal nerves .
The head , eschewing such mobility , has developed an axial box for the brain , and beneath this firm structure , the mobile and distensible mouth and throat are swung .
III .
" On an Extension of the Phenomena discovered by Dr. Kerr and described by him under the title of ' A New Relation between Electricity and Light .
' " By J. E. H. Gordon , B.A. , Assistant Sec. of the British Association .
Communicated by Professor Tyndall , F.R.S. Received February 10 , 1879 .
In November , 1875 , Dr. Kerr announced in the " Philosophical Magazine , " that he had discovered a new relation between electricity and light .
He showed that when glass is ' subjected to an intense electrostatic stress , that a strain is produced which causes the glass to act like a crystal upon polarized light .
On Wednesday , February 5,1879,1 was working at this experiment in the Royal Institution , and endeavouring , by means of the electric light , to project the effect on a screen , in preparation for a lecture on the next day .
In the experiment as described by Dr. Kerr , and which was shown plainly on the screen , on February 6 , the light is extinguished by the Nicols , and reappears when the coil is set going .
In the projection experiment a patch of moderately bright white light , about 3 inches diameter , appeared on the screen when the coil was worked .
The images of the points inside the glass were about 1^- inches apart .
On Wednesday , however , the electrostatic stress was accidentally allowed to become strong enough to perforate the glass .
Immediately before perforation there occurred the effects which are the subject of the present communication .
First appeared a patch of orange-brown light about 6 or 7 inches diameter .
This at once resolved itself into a series of four or five irregular concentric rings dark and orange-brown , the outer one being perhaps 14 inches diameter .
In about two seconds more these vanished and were succeeded by a huge black cross about 3 feet across , seen on a faintly luminous ground .
The arms of the cross were along the planes of polarization , and therefore ( the experiment being arranged according to Dr. Kerr 's directions ) were at 45 ' to the line of stress .
579 .
] On Electrical Insulation in High Vacua .
347 The glass then gave way , and all the phenomena disappeared except , e extreme ends of the cross , and the discharge through the hole , here the glass had been perforated , was alone seen .
The phenomena were seen by Mr. Cottrell , by Mr. Valter ( the icond assistant ) , and by myself .
A fresh glass plate was at once rilled in hopes of repeating the phenomena in the lecture next day , at owing to sparks springing round we did not succeed in perforating he glass , and therefore saw only the faint return of light described ( jy Dr. Kerr .
Some more glasses have been prepared and their terminals in-alated , and I now propose to make another attempt to repeat the new ffects before the Royal Society .
February 20 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Electrical Insulation in High Vacua .
" By William Crookes , F.R.S. Received February 6 , 1879 .
The experiments here described were tried nearly two years ago .
They were suggested by some observations I was then making on the passage of an induction current through highly exhausted tubes .
The main branch of the research being likely to occupy my attention for some time , I may be unable to return to these less important offshoots .
I have ventured , therefore , to Embody them in a short note for the " Proceedings of the Royal Society .
" A pair of gold leaves were mounted , as for an electroscope , in a bulb blown from English lead glass tubing .
The leaves were attached to a glass stem and the lower part of the bulb was drawn out for sealing to a Sprengel pump as shown at fig. 1 .
A stick of ebonite excited by friction was generally used as the source of electricity , but any other source will do equally well , provided it is not too powerful .
No special attention was paid to the action of electricity on the leaves in air or at moderate vacua , as it agreed with what is already well known .
The exhaustion was pushed to a very high degree ( about the millionth of an atmosphere ) , when it was found that the excited

