On Semi-deciussation of the Optic Nerives .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. V.P.R.S. Read February 19 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 222 .
] In the human brain , the optic nerves , after passing forward to a short distance from their origin in the thalami , become incorporated ; and from the point of union two nerves are sent off , one to each eye .
To this united portion the term Decussation has been applied , under the supposition that though the fibres do intermix , they still continue onward in their original direction ; and that those from the right side cross over wholly to supply the left eye , while the right eye is similarly supplied by fibres from the left thalamus .
Anatomists have considered this opinion as confirmed , by the circumstance of the nerves actually crossing each other as two perfectly distinct cords in some fish ; the author , however , from a species of blindness under which he has more than once suffered , concludes that a different distribution of the nerves takes place in the human subject .
This peculiar state of vision consisted in seeing only half of every object , the loss of sight being in both eyes towards the left , and of short duration only .
In reflecting upon this subject , a certain arrangement of the optic nerves , not consistent with the generally received hypothesis of their decussation , occurred to him .
Since the corresponding points of the two eyes , he observes , sympathize in disease , their sympathy is evidently from structure , and not from mere habit of feeling together .
Any two corresponding points must be supplied with a pair of filaments from the same nerve ; and the seat of a disease in which similar parts of both eyes are affected , must be considered as situated at a distance from the eyes , at some place in the course of the nerves where these filaments are still united , and probably in one or other thalamus .
It is plain , he continues , that the cord which comes finally to either eye , under the name of optic nerve , must be regarded as consisting of two portions , one half from the right thalamus , and the other from the left .
Upon this supposition , decussation will take place only between the adjacent halves of the two nerves .
That portion of nerve which proceeds from the thalamus to the right side of the right eye , passes to its destination without interference ; and in a similar manner the left thalamus will supply the left side of the left eye with one part of its fibres , while the remaining halves of both nerves , in passing over to the eyes of the opposite sides , must intersect each other with or without intermixture of their fibres .
The crossing of the entire nerves to the opposite eyes in fishes , Dr. Wollaston observes , is in conformity with this view of the arrangement of the human optic nerves ; for in the sturgeon , for instance , the eyes are placed so exactly back to back , that there are no corresponding points of vision requiring to be supplied with fibres from the same nerve .
In this animal , an injury to the left thalamus might be expected to occasion entire blindness of the right eye alone .
; in ourselves a similar injury would occasion blindness to all objects situated to our right , owing to insensibility of the left half of the retina of both eyes .
Dr. Wollaston states some other facts , illustrating his view of this peculiar distribution of the human optic nerves , remarking that in common vision also the sympathy of corresponding points , which receive similar impressions from the same object , is dependent upon the same arrangement of nerves to which the term Semi-decussation may be applied .
In conclusion , Dr. Wollaston remarks , that so long as our consideration of the functions of a pair of eyes is confined to the performance of healthy eyes in common vision , when we remark that only one impression is made upon the mind , though two images are formed on corresponding parts of the retina , we may rest satisfied in ascribing the apparent unity of the impression to habitual sympathy of the parts ; but when we regard sympathy as arising from structure , and dependent on connexion of nervous fibres , we therein see a distinct origin of that habit , and have presented to us a manifest cause why infants first begin to give the corresponding direction to their eyes , and clearly gain a step in the solution , if not a full explanation , of the longagitated question of single vision with two eyes .

