1874 .
] On the Development of the Teeth of the , fyc .
93 December 10 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
i The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents:\#151 ; The Treasurer .
The Duke of Devonshire .
Mr. John Evans .
Right Hon. Lyon Playfair .
Dr. Sanderson .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for r them .
f The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Development of the Teeth of the Newt , the Frog , and certain Lizards .
" By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. Com , municated by John Tomes , F.R.S. Received July 23 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) That th\#171 ; " papillary stage " of tooth-development could not be said | to at any time exist either in the frog or in certain fish , was pointed out 3 nearly twenty years ago by Professor Huxley , who , however , accepted , ion the authority of Goodsir , the latter 's theory of the process as true of i Man and Mammalia .
In more recent years Kolliker and Waldeyer have b traced out the course of the development of teeth with great accuracy in Man and some other Mammalia , with the result of showing that the usually accepted views propounded by Goodsir and Arnold are not by i any means an accurate representation of what takes place in them .
Since the date of the publication of Professor Huxley 's paper , I am not aware that any thing has been published bearing upon the development-of the teeth of Reptilia and Batrachia , save a paper by Dr. Lionel 1 Beale upon the development of the teeth of the Newt , and a short and inconclusive paper by Santi Sirena ; with the exception of the papers alluded to , the subject may be taken to stand in the position which it occupied at the time of the publication of Professor Owen s * Odonto-s graphy , ' in which we are told that the teeth-germs of Reptiles and I Batrachia never stop at the papillary stage , but that the primitive dental s papilla sinks into the substance of the gum and becomes enclosed by a b capsule .
The principal facts which my observations enable me to state are .
That there is no such thing as a " dental groove " or " dental fissure 3 in the Batrachia and Sauria , but that the whole process takes place \#171 ; beneath an unbroken surface of epithelium .
von .
xxm .
i 94 On the Development of the Teeth of the Newt , %c .
[ Dec. 10 , That there is no such thing as a stage of " free papilla , " and consequently no sinking of papilla into the gum and subsequent encapsulation of the same .
Instead of being formed in a " dental groove " the teeth are developed in a region which may be termed the area of tooth-development , varying in form and extent in different Reptilia , but agreeing in all in possessing the following characters :\#151 ; It is bounded on the one side by the teeth in place and the parapet of bone which carries them , and on the other , or inner , side by an exceedingly sharply defined boundary , consisting of dense connective tissue .
At the surface , near where the functional tooth projects above the oral epithelium , it is narrow , but it expands as it passes more deeply below the surface .
Within this area are developing tooth-sacs of different ages , the interspaces being occupied with a loose areolar tissue , differing in appearance from that which is seen outside the area , and appearing to be derived from portions of older tooth-sacs , which have not been entirely used up in the formation of the teeth .
The individual tooth-sacs are formed thus : an inflection of the cells of the oral epithelium , in section like a tubular gland , passes down along the inner side of the area above defined , until it reaches nearly to the level of the floor of the area .
The depth to which it penetrates is considerable in many forms , e. g. in the Lizards , in which , therefore , this double layer of epithelial cells appears a mere line .
At the bottom of this inflection of epithelial cells the adjacent tissue assumes the form of a small eminence ( without at first any visible structural alteration ) , while the epithelial process takes the shape of a belllike cap over the eminence .
This epithelial inflection then goes to form the enamel-organ j the eminence becomes the dentine-organ .
Thus the enamel-germ is the first thing recognizable , and the presence of this ingrowth of epithelial cells seems to determine the formation of a dentine-organ at that particular spot which lies beneath its termination .
The enamel-organs , after they are fully formed , retain a connexion with epithelial cells , external to the ovoid or spherical tooth-sacs , at their summits ; and the enamel-organs of successive teeth appear to be derived from the necks of those of their predecessors rather than from fresh inflections from the surface of the oral epithelium , though I am not sure that this is , in all instances , the case .
The tooth-sac of the newt is entirely cellular , and has no special investment or capsule ; under pressure it breaks up and nothing but cells remain , as was noted by Dr. Lionel Beale .
That of the frog has an investment , derived in the main from what may be called the accidental condensation of the surrounding connective tissue , which is pushed out of the way as it grows j while in the lizard 1874 .
] On the Development of the Teeth Ophidia .
95 the base of the dentine-germ furnishes lateral prolongations , just as has been observed to be the case in man .
The dentine-organs conform closely with those of mammals ; the odontoblast layer is very distinct , and the processes passing from these cells into the dentine-tubes are often visible .
The enamel-organs consist only of the outer and inner epithelia , without any stellate intermediate tissue ; as , in some instances , enamel is certainly formed , the existence of the stellate tissue is obviously non-essential .
When a tooth is moving to displace its predecessor , its sac travels with it , remaining intact until the actual attachment of the tooth to the bone by ankylosis .
II .
" On the Structure and Development of the Teeth of Ophidia .
" By Charles T. Tomes , M.A. Communicated by John Tomes , F.R.S. Received October 5 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) Contrary to the opinion expressed by Professor Owen and endorsed by Giebel and all subsequent writers , the author finds that there is no cementum upon the teeth of snakes , the tissue which has been so named proving , both from a study of its physical characters and , yet more conclusively , from its development , to be enamel .
The generalization that the teeth of all reptiles consist of dentine and cement , to which is occasionally added enamel , must hence be abandoned .
Without as yet pledging himself to the following opinion , the author believes that in the class of Reptiles the presence of cementum will be found associated with the implantation of the teeth in more or less complete sockets , as in the Crocodiles and Ichthyosaurs .
The tooth-germs of Ophidia consist of a conical dentine-germ , resembling in all save its shape that of other animals , of an enamel-organ , and of a feebly expressed capsule , derived mainly from the condensation of the surrounding connective tissue .
The enamel-organ consists only of a layer of enamel-cells , forming a very regular columnar epithelium , and of a few compressed cells external to this , hardly amounting to a distinct layer ; the enamel-organ is coextensive with the dentine-germ .
There is no stellate reticulum separating the outer Shd inner epithelia of the enamel-organ .
The successional teeth are very numerous , no less than seven being often seen in a single section ; and their arrangement is peculiar , and .quite characteristic of the Ophidia , The tooth next in order of succession is to be found at the inner side of the base of the tooth in place , where it lies nearly horizontally ; but the others stand more nearly vertically , parallel with the jaw and with the tooth in place , ,the youngest of the series being at the bottom .

