1886.1 Computation of the Harmonic Components , 8fc .
367 granular after a certain mode of treatment is said to be albuminous .
It is perfectly possible that such a cell should secrete a substance which is more allied to mucin than to albumin .
We do not yet know enough about the chemical characters of the bodies intermediate between proteid and mucin to make any dogmatic statement on this head .
A fuller account of the points dealt -with iu this paper will shortly be published in the " Journal of Physiology .
" II .
" On the Computation of the Harmonic Components , \amp ; c. " By Lieut.-G-enerai Strachey , R.E. , C.S.I. , F.R.S. Received April 15 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to propose a method of computing the harmonic components of formulae to represent the daily and yearly variations of atmospheric temperature and pressure , or other recurring phenomena , which is less laborious than the ordinary method , though practically not involving sensibly larger probable errors .
According to the usual method the most probable values of the harmonic coefficients are found by solving the equations of condition supplied from the hourly or other periodical observations , by the method of least squares .
The number of these equations is , however , much larger than the number of unknown quantities , when these are limited , as is usual , to the coefficients of the first four orders , and the numerical values of the coefficients of those quantities which depend on a series of sines of multiple arcs , afford peculiar facilities for the eliminating process , so that values of the harmonic coefficients may be obtained by applying certain multipliers to combinations of the original observations obtained by a series of additions and subtractions , the results giving probable errors virtually the same as those got by the method of least squares .
These multipliers for the two fii'S.t orders of coefficients are so nearly equal to and for the third order so nearly 0*07 , that the values may readily be found without tables , though such tables have been calculated to facilitate computations .
Approximate methods of determining the coefficients and of the components for each interval of the series , are also given , from which last a graphical representation of the components may easily be obtained .
The system of computation is applicable to all cases in which the angular intervals between the observations are such as to make the circle a whole series , exactly divisible by 6 and 8 , and it has been extended , by aid of an interpolation , to the case of the 73 five-day means of a yearly period , in which the calculation by the ordinary VOL. XL .
2 c Mr. C. A. Bell .
[ May 13 , method would he so laborious as to he impracticable in most circumstances .
Tabular forms have been prepared by help of which the computations of the coefficients in the form cos 6 , sin may conveniently be carried out , with a minimum of arithmetical labour ; also for obtaining the coefficients P and the angle C in the form P sin ( 0-f C ) ; and the method of correcting the coefficients , as computed from the observed quantities , for any non-periodic variation between the commencement and end of the series is likewise indicated .
III .
" On the Sympathetic Vibrations of Jets .
" By Chichester A. Bell , M.B. Communicated by Prof. A. W. Williamson , F.R.S. Received April 28 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) After a brief historical notice of the observations of Savart , Masson , Sondhauss , Kundt , Laconte , Barret and Tyndall , Decharme , and Neyreneuf , on the sympathetic vibrations of jets and flames , the author describes his own experiments .
Attention was directed to the subject by the accidental observation that a pulsating air-jet directed against a flame caused the latter to emit a musical sound .
The pitch of this sound depended solely on the rapidity of the jet pulsations , but its intensity was found to increase in a remarkable way with the distance of the flame from the orifice .
In order to study the phenomenon , air was allowed to escape against the flame from a small orifice in the ^diaphragm of an ordinary telephone , the chamber behind the diaphragm being placed in communication with a reservoir of air under gentle pressure .
Vibratory motions being then excited in the diaphragm , by means of a battery and a microphone or rheotome in a distant apartment , the discovery was made that speech as well as musical and other sounds could be quite loudly reproduced from the flame .
Certain observations led the author to suspect that motion of the orifice rather than compression of the air in the chamber was the chief agent in the phenomenon ; and , in fact , precisely similar results were obtained when a light glass jet-tube was cemented to a soft iron armature , mounted on a spring in front of the telephone magnet .
Experiment also showed that an air-jet at suitable pressure directed against a flame repeats all sounds or words uttered in the neighbourhood .
Except , however , where the impressed vibrations do not differ widely in pitch from the normal vibrations of the jet ( discovered by Sondhauss and Masson ) , these effects are likely to escape notice , owing to the inability of the ear to distinguish between the disturbing sounds and their echo-like reproduction from the flame .

