]\gt ; Mr. G. F. Emery .
thylphyllotaonin .
Calculated .
Found . . .
C. . . .
H. . . .
6 .
6 .
5 .
N. . . .
Acetylphyllotaonin .
Calculated .
ound . . . .
C. . . .
H. . . .
6 .
VI .
" " Thermo-electric Properties of Salt Solutions By FREr)ERICK EMERY , B.A. , .M .
, of the Inner Temple , Scholar of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOMSON , F.R.S. Received February 8 , 1894 .
94 .
] -electric Prop of Salt FIG. 1 .
Close to each eIectrode is the bulb of a thermometer , ' to one-fifths of a degree Centigrade .
One limb of the -tube is urrounded by a water-jacket , , which is heated by an ordinary circulating arrangement , so that its temperature can be regulated as desired .
( See fig. 1 .
) The E.M.F. between the odes is anced against a branch of a reuib of about 20,000 ohms through which a pair of Leclanche cells are kept closed , and the value of an ohm in E.M.F. is measured against a Clarke cell .
At the commencement of each experiment , when both electlodes were at the same , there was often a slight Hi .
M. between them .
This was carefully read , and then the water-jacket was gradually heated and the readings of the thermometors were taken as the .
passed through , values represented by definite numbers of ohms generally differing by 5 or 10 .
The readings at the highest temperature were very carefully taken , and then the whole was allowed to cool , more readings being taken as the temperature fell .
The valne of any pal.ticular experiment is roughly given by the closeness of the readings for corresponding differences of temperature , while the temperature was rising and falling .
In some series of observations the temperature was allowed to vary very ] , so as .
G. Emel to give acculate readings all through and enable me to get a showing the connection between E.M.F. and difference of ture .
In every case this was very nearly a straight line , and most af the experiments were made pretty quickly so as to get accurate read .
ings for the highest and lowest temperatures , while those for intermediate points selved to show if any irregularity had taken place from secondary causes , and form a check on the accuracy of the whole .
If the readings are not steady or differ much for corresponding points on rising and falling temperatures , I do not , as a rule , attach any value to that experiment .
A change of .
in the tsmperature of one of thejunctions gave an easily noticeable deflection to the gdvanometer spot .
For convenience I have used the symbol for the force per C. , and the unit in terms of which is given is volts per 1o C. The value of is in all cases very small compared with that of , and appears to vary in for different solutions .
Assuming , then , that , as is approximately the case , my object was to find the variation of with the strength of solution .
I made a long series of experiments with six salts , acetate , and sulphate of zinc , and sulphate , nitrate , and acetate of copper .
Nitrate of zinc and chloride of copper gave no results as they appeared to attack the electrodes .
a whole series of experiments on salt I used the same Jot of boiled distilled water and the same stook solution , which was dilnted down to the required strength .
I therefore , that any small effect due to impurities iu the water may safely taken to be a constant .
The salts were all as pure as I couW obtain , and the stock solution was kept for a long time over oxide ' carbonate so as to neutralise any free acid as far as was ssible .
I found considerable variations in the value of when the concentrw tion of the solution was varied , and to show these I have plotted curvQ ' sponding concentrations iolecules pitre oolume .
rfor toses wdivid antrat.eases turves bappear ttart fwhere about sattions I have eated aarts ourves corresponding tconcent with increasing concentration , others iecreases , round mdVery mconcentration Ithat f 1894 .
] -electric erties of Salt which I examined the current would go from hot to cold through the solution .
With the zinc salts I always used amalgamated electrodes coated with sealing-wax or india-rubber where they entered the solution .
I always found these very satisfactory ; there was usually no E.M.F. between the1n when at the same temperature .
Unamalgamated zinc is absolutely useless , as the E.M.F. ilies about in a perfectly wild way .
The following are the values found for :\mdash ; Chloride of Zinc in Water , , fig. 2 .
Concentration Unknown , , strong All the experiments on this salt were very satisfactory in every way .
Acetate of Zinc in Water , B. Concentration This salt gave ver satisfactory resuIts .
Sulphate of Zinc in Water , C. Concentration This salt was not so satisfactory as those above , but the results are sufficient to sbow that the sulphate is thermo-electrically positive in aqueous solution .
With the copper salts I came to the conclusion , after trying several forms of electrode , that the most satisfactory consisted of a short of fine wire projecting from the end of a glass tube , which , was drawn out and stopped with shellac .
The results were obtained:\mdash ; 360 Mr. G. F. Emery .
Sulphate of Copper , D. Concentration These were all very satisfactory .
The value of for the strongest solution agrees with that found by M. Bouty .
Nitrate of Copper , E. Concentration Another stock soIution gave\mdash ; Concentration , also These last very strong soIutions do llot seem to follow any rule , the last two were quite oily .
The concentration is the only ono within the range of the first set of experiments with which it { its in very fairly .
Acetate of Coppel , F. Concentration It may be higher , but Varied from This last of the copper salts was not at all satisfactory , but the results with it are very interesting , as the values of are all far above anything others measured .
As the temperature rose the E.M.F. generally varied in an irregular way , rising at times more quickly than would be right , but as the temperature fell the ] .
usually fell pretty steadily , and the values deduced from the fall are those given ; they were all repeated , and the value given is what appears best .
The value for the last concentration was very eady .
After these experiments the soIution stood in a stoppered bottle , and some bright blue crystals separated out of the liquid .
94 .
] Th ermo-electric Properties of Salt Solutions .
3(il FIG. 2 .
The results were somewhat changed by this , and the following were obtained , which though rather irregular show the thermoelectric effect in this solution .
Acetate of Coppel .
Concentration has a very great effect on the value of These experiments appear to show that a great part of the quantity is dne to the water , and that the presence of a salt in solution may iucrease or diminish the value of according to the nature of the saIt .
The next step was to see how far this effect was an additive one , and for this various mixtures of the above salts were used .
The value for water appears to be in the neighbourhood of , but it cannot be measured directly , as with pure water the results are very irregular .
The following table gives the value of as observed for the mixture , the values for the separate salts of the same strength , and the value which would have if water were and the ferences for the salts were additive .
observed .
; single salts .
calculated .
5.122 6.9 With brass\mdash ; These results show that though the difference from the watervaluq of is not quantit , atively additive , yet as far as direction is the diiferences do add , with the exception of the mixture of copper snlphate and acetate , which turned quite milky during the heating , though there was no trace of ularity in the change of E.M.F. In a case where the components are both negative for the is below either of the 's for the components , while for a mixture of a positive salt with a negative one the value of is between those fot the components .
It will be noticed that in all the mixtures the salq one common component , that there cannot be any actior between the two salts .
These results for mixtul'es of salts seem be of value as supporting the theory that the final in a solutio$ 1894 .
] Thermo-electric Properties of Salt is due to the superposing of a salt effect on that due to the watel itself .
We see from these observations that for any given salt the value of , starting from some value ) endent of the nature of the salt , tends to come to some value depending on the salt , and which does not vary much for solutions of moderate strength .
The ]atter resuIt was that obtained by M. Bonty ; the former is believed to be new .
one of his series of experiments M. Bouty used very strong solutions of zinc choride , and he found that as the strength of these was increased the value of rapidly diminished .
This taken with the above results seems to show that , if we could trace the entire curve for this salt , taking the valus of for all concentrations down to pure zinc choride at one end and pure water at the other , we shonld have a curve witt ] a point of inflexion somewhere about its middle .
It vould , of course , be well-nigh impossible to trace such a curve for any salt , but we can do something very identical without any great difficulty .
If we take two solvents , and while keeping the salt a fixed quantity use different mixtures of the solvents , we can get a complete curve for , as it varies with the change of solvent .
I made a large number of experiments on 1 per cent. solutions , or rather 1 gram per 100 solutions of cadmium omide ; these gave good results with all the mixtures used .
The electrodes were the exposed ends of sticks of cadmium , the sides being coated with glass .
In each set I started with the solutions in pure solvents , and then mixed them so as to get the required mixture for each experiment .
With solutions of 1 gram per 100 c.c. in methyl alcohol and ethyl alcohol with their mixtures the following results were obtained:\mdash ; Methyl alcohol .
Ethyl .
3 ( see fig. 3 ) .
11.3 90 .
11.0 10.76 9.64 90 .
8.9 8.15 This gives us a curve with a point of inflexion similar to that uggested above as the probable shape of the complete curve for and zinc choride .
Solutions of 1 gram of cadminm bromide per 100 .
in ethyl alcohol and water gave the following resuIts:\mdash ; alcohol .
Water .
Sp. fig. 4 ) .
These results show a marked difference from those for mixtures of the two alcohols , methyl and ethyl .
In the latter case we have an inflected curve , which is never far from the mean line which it would occupy , if for the were oportionally placed between the 's for the pure liquids .
In the present case , however , a very small of either with the other causes a large drop in the value of , and the curve lies almost entirely below its lower extremity .
In both cases the ends as symmetrical as the positions of extremities will permit .
Now , the two pairs of solvents would appear to be good represent tives of two cIasses of pairs of liquids .
The two alcohols mix in quiet way with no appearance of chemical action , or , if any , very little ' in the way of heat evolution and alteration of bulk , so that we might vely well expect to find any property of the mixture not very fel'ent from the corresponding properties of the two components , lying somewhere between them in value .
In the case of a mixture alcohol with water we have , on the contrary , large evolution of 394 .
] -electric Properties of Salt Sotutions .
and considerable alteration in bulk , so thal we expect to find a change in any physical property displ.oportiollate to that usual in a case of mixture .
The variations in the alue of for thsse two pairs al.evel.y like those in the conductivity of of metals , for here again we have in some cases the conductivity of the mixture neal .
lie equal to the mean conductivity of the components , while other the conductivity of a mixture is lower than that of either component .
Besides the above sets of experiments , observations on a constant strength of a stock solution of zinc sulphate mixed down to a constant bulk .
of stock with ) stances , gave the following results .
Water only. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10 per cent. alcohol. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10 grams sugar per 100 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10 .
of a sodic sulphate solution per 100 alcohol per 100 aqueous solution is considerably lower than any of those previously obtained .
The alteration in the value of sometimes caused by comparatively slight changes in the quality of the solution makes it ratber difficult to get the same results with two solutions which are apparently alike , and I do not this last value need cause doubt as to the substantial accuracy of the previous resuIts , since two at least of the previous set giving higher values for to be free from any objecbion .
It will be noticed that all the additious to this zinc phate solution caused a decrease in the ] of , that for sugar , as might be expected from such an inactive substance , being least and nearly proportional to its amount .
The px.esence of the sodic sulphate has considerable effect on the value of the change caused by 10 per cent. alcohol , reducing the decrease in by about half its amount .
The strength of the sodic sulphate added was too great to make the resuIts very teresting , but I have no doubt that the curve would have come round to the zero at , like all the others .
Various strengths of cadmium bromide in alcohol , which was afterwards found not to be pure , were tried .
The salt appeared to be pretty ongly positive , the values observed for being\mdash ; For per cent. solution 1 gram cadmium omide in 100 .
of normal alcohol gave A few experiments of what are believed to be an entirely novel kind were made on the thermoelectric force generated in a purely liquid circuit , that is , in a circuit composed of two kinds of liquid , the junctions being at different temperatures .
To measure this ] one of the liquids was divided , and between the extremities , which were kept at exactly the same temperature , two similar electrodes .
were inserted .
For this the following apparatus fig. 5 ) was used .
The method of observation was as follows:\mdash ; The beakers contain No. 1 liquid , as does the tube C. Of two tubes , of which th ends are closed by porous plates , contains No. 1 liquid , and contains No. 2 liquid .
The tube was placed iemperature wteady tfluid weasured .
Then temoved , tnbe Dbetween Fwhich werat connected b : steady .
inserted , and the Fi .
M.F. taken as as the 894 .
] Thermo-electric Salt Solutions .
AA ' are two be$lkers containing one of liquids under ntion , which No. 1 .
BB ' are two thermometers for telling the telnperature of the liquid in the beakers .
is a bent tube full of No. 1 liquid , is continuous the end of , which is under the liquid in , and in ] the electrode dips .
is a syphon tube connecting the liquids in AA ' ; it is full of liquid No. 2 , and is closed at its etlds by porous plugs , EE ' , made of porous earthenware fixed with shellac .
al.e the electrodes , being in beaker , and in tube to , the bent of being iu the beaker A. The following results were obtained:\mdash ; With zinc sulphate 4 per cent. No. 1 , ) as two vations with diiferences and With zinc acetate as No. 2\mdash ; The latter are not so good as the first on zinc cl1loride , gives bout what we might expect from of the 's of the IiWO LastJy , I endeavoured to by experiment that these thermoforces at thejunctions of metals and solutions are part of a system of reversible thermodynamic phenomena .
For this to be true we require to prove the equation where is the heat developed by the passage of unit of electricity across the junction , is the temperature of the junction , and is the quantity discussed above .
As far as I am aware , M. alone bas attempted this previously ( ' Journ. de Phys vol. 9 ) .
He used the plated bulbs of two similar tbermometers as odes , noticing the difference between tlJeir readings when the current was allowed to pass in different directions .
He aduated them in terms of heat units by sending a current a coil of fine enclosing one of the bulbs .
The values of which he so obtained compare fairly well with those of ectly .
This method seems to depend rather too much on the steadiness of convection currents in a liquid to be quite reliable , and I have arrangements to avoid this difficulty with , I think , satisfactory results .
Some very good observations were obtained with an apparatus on the ordinal.y calorimeter inciple .
It was made up of the following parts , fig. 6:\mdash ; A. The Measuring \mdash ; This consists of a double bobbin of tbin sheet copper on a hollow core , on the lower end of which is screwed a metal plate , which forms the electrode , and is in close proximity all over its inner SUl.face with the lower side of the The lower half of the bobbin is wound with very fine copper wire , the resistance of which forms the thermometer .
The upper half of 1 .
the bobbin is wound witf ] platinoid wire , having a resistance of ohms .
This platinoid coil formed the heaber , by means of which a known quantity of heat could be put into the calorimeter , and in this way its heat capacity could be measured .
is a revolving stirrer which passes ough the core of , and ests on a thin metal plate .
The calorimeter vessel , , is a thin glass tube , drawn out at its lower extremity , through which passes the stem of the lower electrode , , which is a circular plate of metal ; over are polous plates , protected from the stirrer by a thin sheet of metal .
All the vessel above this sheet of metal is enclosed in a metal box , and all above is in a wooden box , , which is surrounded on ; S all sides by fossil meal .
394 .
] Thermo-electric Properties of Salt Solutions .
FIG. 6 .
The solution under examiIlation is pub in , so as to cover A to depth of half an inch , or t'nereabouts .
For measuring the current , the potential between the ends of a known resistance in its circTtit was compared with a Clarke cell .
Thus , if on the potenbiometer the latter , the former , we have RC volt .
For measuring the resistance , or rather the change the resistanc.e , of the coil , a circular wire bridge , of what is believed to be a llew form ( fig. 7 ) , which entireIy avoids all thermoelectric disturbance , was used .
The bridge wire , , is on the inside wall of a circular channel , cut in a thick piece of wood .
A second wire , , made of the same material as , is sprung into a grve on the outside of the channel .
The ends of A are on two copper plates cJose to-j gether , and the ends of are on a copper plate just opposite them , , on the other side of the channel , so that all the junctions of dissimilar metals are within an area of about 1 .
in .
Contact is made between Mr. G. F. Emely .
[ Apr. FIG. 7 .
A and by a , of the same material , fixed on a handle , , the position of which is read on a scale by a pointer , Ei . .
A switchboard was used which allowed a current to be sent in either direction through the liquid in the calorimeter , or through the coil , , or through both at once .
Two methods were with this apparatus for measuring the Peltier effect at .
The is as follows .
After all has attained a uniform temperature , r'he resistance of is measured .
A was then passed through for three minutes , the liquid being we 'll stirred , and the current being measured .
The resisbance of is again measured .
The whole is allowed to stand for a few minutes till the temperature is steady , and then a is passed through the liquid by plate for three minntes , and the resistance of is again measured .
After a rest the current is reversed , and allowed to again through the liquid , and the resistance is again measured .
When the current is passing through the liquid the heating effect is due to two causes ; one of these is unknown , and is .
independent of the direction of the current .
Let be the current , and let be this unknown heat .
rest is due bo the Peltier effect , and we may put it equal to 1894 .
] -electric Prop ( jrties of Salt Let be the changss in bhe resistance of in the three observations , the resistance of the platinoid coil the current in the first , that in the latter two vations .
Then we following equations , since we may take proportional to the in the temperatul.e:\mdash ; This open to ) objection thnt the heating the same in each , the loss of heat will not be the same in each .
An improvement on this method which was afterwards adopted ensures the loss of being steady , and the same for all the observations .
This was to so adjust the ent that the change in the resistance of should be the same , whether the current passed through the liquid , so as to heat the electrode , or whether it passed so as to cool , and at the same time passed the coil lf is the rent which gives these equal differences , we have or The following observations were obtained with these methods , ation of them , using a 15 per cent. solution of copper sul , for which the value of was equal to .
The current is given in terms of potentiometer readings and the change of resistance in divisions .
Current 311 through gives d rent liquid and Moau , fcall of three , and give .
H , 't and , Curreut - the same change of esistance as curJ e through liquid coil VOL. Thermo-electric Properties of Salt Solutions .
whence Current 335 ) the se method gave perfectly constant of resistance for both directions of current , whence Finally , tlJe measurement was reduced to a null method by using two pieces of apparatus like , of the same size , and as nearly alike as .
These were used side by side in a wooden bowl of liquid of an oblong shape , withr a copper bottom , and divided by an .
ebonite plate , so that the current from the electrodes should go vertically through the liquid .
Each platinoid coil had a resistance ohms .
, and the thermometer coils were 32 and 36 ohms .
respect .
ively .
The al thickness of each bobbin with its electrode plate was not much above in .
, the diameter a little over 1 im. The current passes through one of the coils , and from one electrode plate to the other through the bottom of the liquid .
It ia adjusted so that the ratio of the resistances of the thermometer coil\amp ; should remain constant for both directions of ourrent .
We now have , using the same letters as before , the single equation assuming everything symmetrical , or If there is any want of symmetry , we shall get two values for one for each direction of the current , and if these are nearly equal , we are safe in taking their mean .
With this apparatus for thq same solution a perfect balance was got in each direction for the same value of volt As this seemed rather high , the contact of the electrodes with the- ; bobbins was made better by amalgamatiug their surfaces .
A current 280 potentiometer gave a bridge change -10 in 5 ' .
should give balance .
lcngbhs of time .
rent 2 gave perfec balance in each direction for 1894 .
] Experi)tal Determination of Poisson 's Ratio .
This gives This the last , and , I believe , the best , result , is almost exacfly equal to for the solution .
With the last apparatus and a solution of nitrate of copper , for which was measured and found , a perfect balance in both directions was obtained with iometer I should have liked to do a few more solutions , but went wrong with the insulation of the bobbins , and 1 had no time to them .
However , these two results appear to be to enable us to say that the equation is true for the junctions of the kind under examination , and these thermo-electric phenomcna are reversible .
VII .
" " Experimental Detel.mination of Poisson 's Ratio .
C. E. IEYER .
Communicated by LORD , P.B.S. Received , 1894 .
The experiments with which this paper were carl1ied out between the 1883 and 1886 by Professor Kennedy and the author , with an instrument which the latter had originally designed for measuring local strains in metal structures , but which P itself to be so exceedingly sensitive ) it seemed capable of bein applied to the measuling of the contraction of test pieces while these were subjected to a longitudinal pull , thus .
the mealls for .
Poisson 's ratio direct .
In its original form instrument consisted of two small frames , }which were secured to each other by means of two flat springs , in such a manner , tive motion was a perfectly parallel one .
One of these frames carried a small piece of dark glass , and close to it , but on other frame , right-angled glass prism was secured .
The two glass faces , which faced each other , were then carefully adjusted , so as to

