X. The Conclusion of Dr. Desagulier 's Account of Mr. Hales 's Vegetable Staticks .
CHA P. VII .
Of Vegetation .
OUR Author in this Chapter applies his several Experiments , and Conclusions drawn from them , to Vegetation ; and shows chiefly the following Things , viz. That Vegetables are composed of Sulphur , volatile Salt , Water , Earth and Air .
That in Nutrition the Sum of the attracting Powers of those Substances is superior to the Sum of the repellent ; and as the watery Vehicle flies off , the Parts harden .
That Oil , which is made up of Sulphur and Air , abounds in Seeds for their better preservation .
That in cold Countries , where those Principles are not so firmly united , small Wines , such as Rhenish , most easily yield their Tartar ( which by Experiments appears to contain Oil and Air ; ) but generous Wines , such as Madera , having those Principles more firmly united , will bear a great degree of Heat before they part with them .
That the use of the Leaves of Trees is to bring up Nourishment within reach of the Attraction of the Fruit , to carry off the redundant watery Fluid ; to imbibe Rains and Dews which are impregnated with Salt and Sulphur ; as likewise to imbibe Air , and to be of the same use to Plants as the Lungs are to Animals .
That Plants which are overshaded , or too replete with Moisture , cannot so well imbibe Air : Therefore , tho ' they will shoot out fast , and have much Wood , they will be more barren in proportion .
Mr. Hales , by a very ingenious Contrivance , found the Degrees of growing in every part of young Shoots , which in their growing extend themselves most in the middle , and least towards the top and the bottom ; the ductile Matter for their growth being drawn out in length like melted Glass-Tubes , which retain a Hollowness , tho ' drawn out to the smallest Thread .
N. B. In some Animals there is such a tough ductile Substance , which hardens when exposed to the Air in small Threads , as in Spiders and Silk-Worms .
He shows , that the Pith serves to supply the dilating Moisture for the tender Shoots ; but that their Figure may be oblong , and not round , as the Fruit commonly is , there are tough Diaphragms in the Pith at small distance from each other , which check the lateral Expansion ; as also horizontal Fibres , which serve for the some purpose : And of the same sort is the Pith in the large growing Feathers of Birds ; which is made up of Vesicles that can be distended lengthwise , but have Sphincters at the ends , to prevent too large a lateral Dilatation .
That the Bones of Animals do not grow at the Joints ( which would prevent their free Motions ) but at the Symphysis , viz. where the Heads join to the Shanks of the Bones That there are particular Vessels in Vegerables , as well as animas , appropriated for conveying different sorts of Nutriment ; and that where a viscid Substance is to befurnished , the Vessels are lengthened , and often fetch a compass to retard the Velocity of the Fluid , which is to be ijnspissated into an hard Substance .
Thus in hard Stone-Fruits the ~ Vessel goes round theConcave of the Stone , and then enters the Kernel near its Cone .
Then at last , our Author traces the Vegetation of a Plant , from a Seed to a Tree again producing Seed ; which Account , as it cannot well be contracted , without leaving out something material ; and as it serves to show some of the excellent uses of our ingenious Philosopher 's happy Discoveries , I shall ( to conclude this Abstract ) give in the Author 's own Words .
Supported by the Evidence of many of the foregoing Experiments , I will now trace the Vegetation of a Tree , from its first seminal Plant in the Seed , to its full Maturity and Production of other Seeds , without entring into a particular Description of the Structure of the Parts of Vegetables ; which has already been done by Dr. Grew and Malpighi .
We see by Experiment 56 , 57 , 58 , on distilled Wheat , Peas , and Mustard-Seed , what a wonderful Provision Nature has made , that the Seeds of Plants should be well stored with very active Principles ; which Principles are there compacted together by him , who curiously adapts all things to the purposes for which they were intended , with such a just degree of Cohesion , as retains them in that State , till the proper Season of Germination : For if they were of a more lax Constitution , they would too soon dissolve like the other tender Annual Parts of Plants : And if they were more firmly connected , as in the Heart of an Oak , they must necessarily have been many Years in germinating , tho ' supplied with Moisture and Warmth .
When a Seed is sown in the Ground , in a few Days it imbibes so much Moisture , as to swell with very great force ; as we see in the Experiment on Peas in an Iron-Pot .
This forcible Swelling of the Lobes of the Seed a r , a r , ( Fig. 1 .
) does probably protrude Moisture and Nourishment from the capillary Vessels r r , which are called the Seed-Roots , into the Radicle cz d ; which Radicle , when it is thus shot some length into the Ground , does then imbibe Nourishment from thence ; and after it has acquired sufficient Strength , as this tender ductile Root is extending from z to c , it must necessarily carry the expanding Seed-Lobes upwards at the same time that the dilating from z to d makes it shoot downwards ; and when the Root is thus far grown , it supplies the Plume b with Nourishment ; which thereby swelling and extending , opens the Lobes a r , a r , which are at the same time raised aboveground with the Plume i , where they by expanding and growing thinner , turn to green Leaves ( except the Seeds of the Pulse-kind ; ) which Leaves are of such importance to the yet tender Plume , that it perishes , or will not thrive if they are pulled off : Which makes it probable , that they do the same Office to the Plume that the Leaves adjoining to Apples , Quinces and other Fruit do to them , viz. they draw Sap within the reach of their Attraction .
( See Exper .
8 .
and 30 .
) But when the Plume is so far advanced in growth , as to have Branches and expanded Leaves to draw up Nourishment , then these supplemental seminal Leaves a r , a r , being of no farther use , do perish ; not only because the nowgrown and more expanded Leaves of the young Plant or Tree do so overshade the supplemental Leaves , that the former more plentiful Perspiration is much abated ; and thereby also their power of attracting Sap fails ; but also because the Sap is drawn from them by the Leaves ; and they being thus deprived of Nourishment , do perish .
As the Tree advances in stature , the first , second , third and fourth Order of the lateral Branches shoot out , each lower Order being longer than those immediately diately above them ; not only on the account of Primogeniture , but also because being inserted in larger parts of the Trunk , and nearer the Root , they have the advantage of being served with greater plenty of Sap , whence arises the beautiful parabolical Figure of the Trees .
But when Trees stand thick together in Woods or Groves , this their natural Shape is altered ; because the lower lateral Branches being much shaded , they can perspirelittle ; and therefore drawing little Nourishment , they perish : But the Top-Branches being exposed to a free drying Air , they perspire plentifully ; and thereby drawing the Sap to the Top , they advance much in height .
But vice versa , if when such a Grove of tall Trees is cut down , there be left here and there a single Tree , that Tree will then shoot out lateral Branches ; the Leaves of which Branches now perspiring freely , will attract plenty of Sap ; on which account , the Top being deprived of its Nourishment , it usually dies .
And as Trees in a Grove or Wood grow only in Length , because all the Nourishment is by the Leaves drawn to the top , most of the small lateral shaded Branches in the mean time perishing for want of Perspiration and Nutrition : So the case is the very same in the Branches of a Tree , which usually making an Angle of about 45 Degr .
with the Stem of the Tree , do thereby beautifully fill up at equal and proper Distances the space between the lower Branches and the top of the Tree , forming thereby as it were a parabolical Grove or Thicket ; which shading the Arms , the small lateral Shoots of those Arms usually perish for want of due perspiration ; and therefore the Arms continue naked like the Bodies of Trees in a Grove ; all the Nourishment being drawn up to the tops of the several Branches by the Leaves which are there exposed to the warm Sun and free drying Air , whereby the Branches of Trees expand much .
And where the lateral Branches are very vigorous , so as to make strong shoots , and attract the Nourishment plentifully , there the Tree usually abates of its height : But where the Tree prevails in height , as in Groves , there commonly its lateral Branches are smallest .
So that we may look upon a Tree as a complicated Engine , which has as many different Powers as it has Arms and Branches , each drawing from their common Fountain of Life the Root : And the whole of each yearly growth of the Tree will be proportionable to their attracting Powers , and the Quantity of Nourishment the Root affords .
But this attracting Power and Nourishment will be more or less , according to the different Ages of the Tree , and the more or less kindly Seasons of the Year .
And the proportional growth of their lateral and Top-Branches in relation to each other , will much depend on the difference of their several attracting powers .
If the Perspiration and Attraction of the lateral Branches is little or nothing as in Woods and Groves , then the Top-Branches will mightily prevail ; but when in a free open Air the Perspiration and Attraction of the lateral Branches come nearer to an Equality with that of the Top , then is the aspiring of the Top-Branches greatly checked .
And the case is the same in most other Vegetables , which when they stand thick together , grow much in length with very weak lateral Shoots .
And as the Leaves are thus serviceable in promothe growth of a Tree , we may observe , that Nature has placed the Pedals of the Leave-stalks where most Nourishment is wanting to produce Leaves , Shoots and Fruit ; and some such thin leafy Expansion is so necessary for this purpose , that Nature provides small thin Expansions , which may be called primamary Leaves that serve to protect , and draw Nourishment to the young Shoot and Leaf-buds before the Leaf it self is expanded .
And herein we see the admirable Contrivance of the Author of Nature , in adapting her different Ways of conveying Nourishment to the different Circumstances of her Productions .
For in this Embryo-state of the Buds a suitable provision is made to bring Nourishment to them in a Quantity sufficient for their then small Demands .
But when they are in some degree increased and formed , a much greater quantity of Nourishment is necessary in proportion to their greater Increase : Nature , that she may then no longer supply with a scanty hand , immediately changes her Method in order to convey Nourishment with a more liberal hand to her Productions ; which Supply daily increases by the greater Expansion of the Leaves , and consequently the more plentiful Attraction and Supply of Sap , as the greater growth and demand of it increases .
We find a much more elaborate and beautiful Apparatus for the like purpose , in the curious Expansions of Blossoms and Flowers , which seem to be appointed by Nature , not only to protect , but also to draw and convey a Nourishment to the Embryo-Fruit and Seeds .
But as soon as the Calix is formed into a small Fruit now impregnated with its minute seminal Tree , furnishe 'd with its Secondine , Chorion and Amnion ( which new-set Fruit may in that state be looked upon as a complete Egg of the Tree , yet in Embryo ) then the Blossom falls off , leaving this new formed Egg or first-set Fruit in this Infant-state , to imbibe Nourishment sufficient for it self , and the Faetus with which it is impregnated : Which Nourishment is brought within the reach and power of~ its Suction by the adjoining Leaves .
If I may be allow 'd to indulge Conjecture ( in a Case , in which the most diligent Inquirers are as yet , after all their laudable Researches , advanced but little farther than mere Conjecture ) I would propose it to their consideration , whether from the manifest Proof we have that Sulphur strongly attracts Air , a hint may not be taken to consider whether this may not be the primary use , of the Farina faecundans , to attract and unite with it self elastick or other refined active Particles .
That this Farina abounds with Sulphur , and that a very refined sort , is probable from the subtle Oil which Chymists obtain from the Chives of Saffron : And if this be the use of it , was it possible that it could be more aptly placed for the purpose on very movable Apices fixed on the slender Points of the Stamina , whereby it might easily with the least breath of Wind be dispersed in the Air , thereby surrounding the Plant as it were with an Atmosphere of sublimed sulphureous Pounce ?
For many Trees and Plants abound with it ; they may be perhaps inspired at several parts of the Plant , and especially at the Pistillum , and be thence conveyed to the Capsula seminalis , especially towards Evening ; and in the Night , when the beautiful Petala of the Flowers are closed up , and they , with all the other parts of the Vegetable , are in a strongly imbibing state .
And if to these united sulphureous and aerial Particles we suppose some Particles of Light to be joined ( for Sir Isaac Newton has found that Sulphur attracts Light strongly ) then the result of these three by far the most active Principles in Nature , will be a Punctum Saliens to envigorate the Seminal Plant : And thus we are at last conducted by the regular Analysis of vegetable Nature to the first enlivening Principle of their minutest Origin .
P. S. Since I began this Abstract , I was with the ingenious Author , who by some Experiments tried since the writing of his Book , was become certain of some things which he spoke doubtfully of before , viz , 1 .
That the Diaphragm-Instrument ( see Page 263 , of his Book ) wou 'd serve to breathe 8 1/ 2 Minutes when it was entirely dry , and the Diaphragms impregnated with Salt of Tartar .
2 .
That Leaves imbibe ~ Air , as he has since tried in Mint in the manner that he mentioned ( in Page 329 .
) 3 .
That this year the Heat of the Weather has been at 84 Degrees , marked on his Thermometers .

