III .
" O On the Osteolog-y of the Solitaire or Didine Bird of the Island of Rodrigue , Pezoplaps solitara ( Gniel .
) .
" By ALFRED NEWTON , M.A. , Professor of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in the University of Cambridge , and EDWAR NEWTON , M\.A , .
, Auditor-General of Manritius .
Commxiunicated by P. L. SLATE , iEsq .
, M.A. , PbD .
I Recei'ved lay 6 , 1868 .
( ikbst ; ract .
) The Solitaire of Rodriguez was first satisfactorily showni to be distinet from the Dodo of Maauritius ( Didc ineptus ) by Strickland in 1844 , froi a renewed examinat'lo of the evidence respecting it , consisting of the acco-Lnt given by Leguat in 1708 , and of the remains sent to France and Great Brltain .
Strickland , in 1848 , further proved it to be generically distinct from the Dodo .
The reinams existing in Europe in 1852 were eighteen bonies , of which five were at Paris , six at Glasgow , five in possession of the Zoological Society ( since transferred to the British Museurn ) , and two in that of Stricklanld , who , at the date last mentioned , described them as belonging to t1 o species , the second of which he named Puzo phaps minor , from the great differenec observable in the size of thec specimens .
In 1864 one of the author 's visited Rodriguez , and there found in a cave two more bones , while a third was picked up by a gentleman with him .
All these bones have been described , and m-most of them figured , in the publicationts of the Zoological Society , ad in the lage work of Striokland and Dr. Melville * EuncoLraged by his former success , that one of the authors of the preser , t paper wblo had before been to Rodrigue nrge r. Gerge Jenne , th magistrate of the isand , to make a more thoroLgh search in its eaves ; and in 1865 ti i gentleman sent no less than eit-one specimens to M auritius , These were forthwith transmitted to London , ad exhibited at a mneeting of the Zoologica1 Society in that year , when it appeared that the notion previously entertalned of there having been two species of Pezo.plap was erroneous , and that probably the difference n size of the specime s rlvas sexual .
News of this last discovery reached Englanid during the meeting of the British Association at Birmingham , and , prompted by Mr. P. L. Selater , that body made a liberal grant to aid further researches .
Owing to several causes , the scarcity of labonrers in .
Rodriguiec beiag the cliief , nealy a year elapsed before these could be begun .
But in 1866 , some coolies having been expressly sent thither to dig n the caves , a very Iarge collection of the bones of this bird , amounting to licarly bwo thou'and specimens , was obtained .
These spccimes ielde almost cd1 the most important parts of the skeleton , and furnish the authors Nith the na teral for the present paper .
This vast series of specimens shows that there was a very great amount of individual variability in the bird , so much so as to render the task of describing them minutely , and yet generally , a very difficult one .
Yet , in consequence of this wealth of material , the authors have greater conifidence in the opirions they declare .
Professor Owen , having lately published a very detailed account of the osteology of the Dodo * , the present paper follows as closely as possible the mode of treatment he therein adopted , the authors thinking , that they are so consulting the convenience ot those who may wish to compare the structure of the two allied birds .
Thanks to him , also , they have beeni able themselves to examine the very specimens which he described ; and they are further indebted to mrany others-Mr .
George Clark of Mauritius , Professors Reinhardt , Fritsch , and Alphonse Milne-Edwards , Sir William Jardine , and Mr. Flower , for valuable assistance in the shape of models or other additional imaterial .
To ANr .
J. W. Clark they also mention their obligations for reconstriueting from specimens in their possession the skeletons of the Dodo and of two Solitaires now exhibited .
The description of the latter follows in muchl detail , the amouLnt of individual variability to which each bone was subject being , specially dwelt on , and the whole compared bone by bone with that of the Dodo and also of Didunculus .
Pezophaps differs from Dicdunculys quite as much as Didus does , but it is inearly allied to the latter .
Still there are important differences .
The neck was much longer than in Diu-s , and the vertebr.e , on the whole , larger .
The ribs also possess perhaps somewhat thicker heads and articular tubercles .
The pelvis is much more rounded , aiud approaches that of the normal Pigcon-s much more than that of Didus does ; but in its posterior portion it differs very remarkably from that of any knowln bird ; for the pubis in Didus has not yet beeni discovered .
In the sternum Pezophcips generally agrees with Didus , but has some distinctive features .
This bone shows articular surfaces for four sternal ribs only , instead of five , which seems to be the normal number in Didus ; and the posterior extremity , so far as can be judged from the imperfect condition of the specimens , is very unlike what it is in that bird ; but the characters deducible from this lastportioniinbirdsgenerallyareshown to be very inconstant .
The " scapular arch " differs from that of Didus , its constituenit portions havinbeen apparently never anebylosed as is the normal state there , and consequently resembling in this respect those of the generality of birds .
The angle made by the junction of the coracoid and scapula cannot be accurately determined , but wo-utld appear to have been not much less than what it is in Didlu - .
The scapula is of very peculiar form , unlike , so far as known to the authors , that of any bird , being inclined somewhat forward , and only pointing back .
warcl at its extremity , where it becomes spatulate in shape .
The coracoid exhib'its , as usuas in this very significant bone , some good diagnostic cha* " On the Ostoology of the Dodo ( .Di'cluS iptus , Liun .
) , " Tranis .
Eooi , Soc. vol. vi .
pp. 49-85 .
racters .
It is much stouter than it is in Didus-a fact not so surprising when the exceedingly abnormal form it there assumes is taken into consideration .
At its sternal end it differs from that of most other birds , in the extension and rounding off of the outer border .
Other peculiarities in it are also described , one of which appears to be sexual .
This is the surface to which the scapulais articulated , and which in the large individuals ( presumed to be males ) is roughly quadrate , while in the smaller ones ( the supposed females ) it is triangular .
In Pezophaps the bones of the wing are more massive and smoother than in Didus , judging from such remains of the latter as exist .
The most remarkable thing about them , however , is the presence of a bony knob on the radial side of the metacarpal , unlike what is found in any other bird .
It is large in some of the specimens , supposed to have belonged to old males , but very little developed in the presumed females .
It is more or less spherical , pedunculate , and consists of a calluslike mass with a roughened surface , exceedingly like that of diseased bone , and was probably covered by a horny integument .
It is situated immediately beyond the proximal end and the index , which last would appear to be thrust away by it to some extent .
It answers most accurately and most unexpectedly to Leguat 's description of it:- " L'os de l'aileron grossit a l'extr6mite , et form sous la plume un petite mass ronde comme un balle de mousquet .
" A description of its structure , as ascertainied microscopically by Mr. J. Gedge , is added .
The extremity of the wing is wanting .
The leg-bones of PezopA ps , when compared with those of Didu , show more strongly developed ridges and muscular impressions , juist the converse of what is observable in those of the wing ; but the legbones having been minutely and correctly described by prior authors , it is unnecessary here to say much of them .
Part of the skull , too , had been already described ; but the only specimen then known was so encrusted with stalagmite that not much could be made of it .
The present remains show that it was very markedly different in maniy respects from that of Didws .
The craniu-m is narrower and longer , and without the peculiar frontal protuberance of Didus , being nearly flat at the top , with the fore and hind part elevated iito 'two bony ridges of cancellous structure .
The uppermandible also presents a remarkable difference from that of Didus , where the axes of the nasal process and the maxillary converge , whereas in Pezophaps they diverge .
The maxilla also was relatively very small ; and the mandible differed by being much straighter above , showing a salient angle on its lower edge ( which is very inconsiderable in Didus ) , and being much more solid posteriorly .
In the quadrate the two birds are more alike .
The rest of the bones of the head are wanting .
A comparisoni of the entire skeleton shows that Pezopha(ps is in some degree , and perhaps on the whole , intermediate between Didus and the niormal Columb e , while it has some features , such as the armature of the wing , quite peculiar .
It has no very near affinity to Didunculus ; indeed that form must be considered the type of a separate family , though not so aberrant as the Dididce , which must be looked upon as the most remotely connected of the order Columbee .
Strickland was amply justified in arriving at the conclusion that the Solitaire of Rodriguez was generically distinct from the Dodo ; but it seems expedient to define his genus Pezophaps more precisely .
Accordingly the following characters are assigned to it : Rostrum mediocre , curvatum , processu nasali et ramis maxillaribus antice divergentibus .
Frons plana , porca osseo-cancellat'a circumdata .
Ossa coracoidea robusta .
Ale breves , involatiles .
Manus singulis bullis osseocallosis armatae .
Collum et pedes longiores .
In like manner the genus Didus may be defined Rostrum magnum , aduncum , processu nasali et ramis maxillaribusa ntice convergentibus .
Frons tumida , in umboneni hypoconicum osseo-cancellatum surgens .
Ossa coracoidea attenuata , scapulas obtuse attingentia .
Ale breves , involatiles .
Manus inermes .
Collum et pedes breviores .
The account given by Leguat of his Solitaire is then quoted in full , as also that of d'Heguerty , the latter from Strickland , and the authors proceed to remark upon the different causes of extinction of species within bistoric time .
This , when effected by man 's agency , is seldom done by man 's will ; and various cases are cited to support this opinion .
In extirpating species man generally acts indirectly ; and they succumb to forces set in motion indeed by him , but without a thought on his part of their effect .
In the case of the extinction of the Solitaire of Rodriguez , the cause usually suggested seems inadequate ; and the authors consider it was probably effected by feral Swine , and quote a remarkable passage from an old French Voyage , showing the extraordinary abundance of these creatures in Mauritius , where , in or about the year 1708 , above fifteen hunzdred had been slain in one day .
It is plain that where these abounded inactive birds could not long survive .
It is supposed that the case was the same in Rodriguez as in Mauritius ; for in every country newly discovered by Europeans , it has been an almost universal custom to liberate Pigs , and there is no reason to believe that the island first named was an exception thereto .
The extraordinary fidelity of Leguat 's account of the Solitaire is next considered .
It is borne out in every point save one , perhaps , by a study of the remains .
The rugose surface at the base of the maxilla , the convexity of the pelvis , the somewhat lighter weight of the Solitaire than of the Dodo , its capacity for running , and , above all , the extraordinary knob on the wing , all agree with the description he has given us .
Ihe authors attempt also to account for the origin of this last by observing that its appearance is so exactly that of diseased bone , that it may have been first of all occasioned by injuries received by the birds in such combats with one another as Leguat mentiols , and aggravated by the continuance of their pugnacity ; The authors remark , also , that it is the habit of Pigeons to fight by buffeting with their pinions .
The particular in which Leguat may have erred is in the assertion , or perhaps rather inference , as to the monogamlous habits of the Solitaire ; and the cause of the error ( if such it be ) may be ascribed , without derogating from his truthfuliess , to his anxiety to point a moral , which may have led him to imagine he saw what he wished to see .
HIe especially mentions that one sex would not fight with the other , which is just what takes place amonlg polygamoius birds .
The case of a very well-knownl bird ( Otis tarda ) , about which l much has beenl writteni , is then cited , to show that evenl now , after cenituries of observation , it is doubtful whether it be mornogamous or polygamous .
Leguat , therefore , may easily have been mistaken in his opinion , eveni setting aside his evident leaning on the matter .
The notion of Pezophckps havingo beeni polygamous was before elntertained by one of the authors , and arises from a consideratica of the great differenice in the size of the two sexes , which in birds is generally accompanied by polygamous habits ; but the question is now not likely to be solved .
The amnount of variability which every bone of the skeleton of this species presents , warrants the conlelasion that as much was displayed in those parts of its structure which have perished , letting aloine Leguat 's direct evidence as to the individual difference in the plumage of the females .
If such a process , therefore , as has been termed " Natural Selection , " or " Survival of the Fittest , " exists , there would have beenl abunLdant room for it to operate ; and there having been only one species of Pe-olphaps might , at first sight , seem an arguLmenit against the belief in such a process .
A little reflection , however , will show that suchi an argument is unsound .
Confined in a space so restricted as one small islan d , every individual of the species must have beeni subject to conditionis essentially identical in all cases .
Whatever power such a process might possess , there would be neither occasion nor opportunity for its operation , so lonlg as no change took place in the physical cha racter of the islaned .
But if we venture to indulge our fancy , andi consider what would have beein the inevitable result of a gradual upheaval of the island , and a corresponding eXtension of its area unitil it became vastly increased and its original low rounded hills were exalted into mountains , it is plain that a great variety of plhysical conditions would be thereby incurred .
One side of the islanid would be exposedl to the full force and direct influeence of the trade-winids , the other side would be completely sheltered from them .
The climate of these two portionis would accordingly cliffer , and a great difference would be speedily wrought in the character of their veoetation , while that of the elevated cenitral part wouldo undergo a corresponding modificationi After some loniger or shorter period , we can conceive the island itself being broken uLp into t ; wo portions , separated from one another by a strait , such as divides the North and Middle Islands of New Zealand .
This ruptuLe would certainly tened still more to affect the existing faina and flora ; and at the enid of another epoch there can be little doubbt but the animals and plants of each portion , exposed to di erent influences , would presenlt a decidedly di erent appearance , and the eastern and western islands ( supposing the separation to Lave t ken1 place in t(11he directiout eO the meridbin ) mghiipt ecl 2os8c its own special form of Solitaire , as the islands composing New Zealand have their peculiar species of A1pteryx .
But it is only in suich a case as has just been imagined that conisiderable modifications would be likely to be effected .
It therefore seems to be no argument against the existence of such a process as that of " Natu-ral Selection , " to find a small oceanic island tenanted by a single species which was subject to great inidividuial variability .
Indeed a believer in this theory would be inclined to predicate that it would be just under such circumstanices that the greatest amount of variability would be certain to occur .
In its original state , attacked by no enemies , the inierease of the species would only be dependent on the supply of food , which , one year with another , would not vary much , and the form would continue without any predisposing cause to change , and thus no advantage would be taken of the variability of structure presented by its inidividuals .
On the other hand , we may reflect on what certainly has taken place .
Of the other terrestrial members of the avifauna of Rodriguez but few inow remaini .
A small Finch and a Warbler , both endemic ( the first belornging to a group almost entirely confined to Madagascar and its satellites , the seconid to a genus extending from Africa to Australia ) , are the only two land-birds of its original fauna now known to exist .
The Guinea-fowl and Love-bird have in all probability been introduced from Madagascar ; but the Parrots and Pigeons of which Leguat speaks have vanished .
The remnains of one of the first , and the de-scription of the last , leave little room to doubt but they also were closely allied to the forms found in Madagascar and the other Mascarene islands ; and thus it is certainly clear that four out of the oix indigenous species had their natural allies in other species belonging to the same zoological province .
It seems impossible on any other reasonable supposition than that of a common ancestry to accounlt for this fact .
The authors are compelled to the belief that there was once a time when Rodriguez , Mauritius , Bourbon , Madagascar , and probably the Seychelles were connected by dry land , and that that time is sufficiently remote to have permitted the descendanits of the original inhabitants of this niow submerged continent to become modified into the many different representative forms which are now known .
Whether this result can have been effected by the process of " Natulral Selection " must remaini an opein question ; but that the Solitaire of RodEtriguez , and the Dodo of Mauritius , much as they eventually came to differ , sprang from onie and the same parent stock , seems a deduction so obvious , that the authors can no more conceive any one fully acquainted with the facts of the case hesitating about its adoption than that be can doaibt the existence of the Power by whom these species were thus formed .

