126 Dr. H. H. Dale .
LITERATURE .
Boycott and Haldane ( 1908 ) , 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 37 , p. 355 .
Chapman and Wardlaw ( 1916 ) , ' Medical Journal of Australia , ' p. 387 .
Cook and Pembrey ( 1913 ) , 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 14 , p. 429 .
Haldane ( 1905 ) , ' Journal of Hygiene , ' vol. 5 , p. 494 .
Haldane and Fitzgerald ( 1905 ) , ' Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 32 , p. 486. .
Haldane and Priestley ( 1916 ) , 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 1 , p. 296 .
Hill and Flack ( 1909 ) , ' Proc. Physiol. Soc. , ' March 27 ( ' Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 38 ) .
Hunt ( 1912 ) , 'Journal of Hygiene , ' vol. 12 , p. 479 .
Harvey-Sutton ( 1908 ) , 'Journal of Path , and Bact .
, ' vol. 13 .
Griffith-Taylor ( 1918 ) , " The Australian Environment , " ' Advisory Council of Science and Industry .
Memoir 1 , ' Melbourne , p. 117 .
Croonian Lecture.\#151 ; The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
By H. H. Dale , C.B.E. , M.D. , F.RS .
( Lecture delivered May 29 , 1919.\#151 ; MS .
received October 21 , 1919 .
) Mr. President , Ladies , and Gentlemen , \#151 ; I am deeply sensible of the honour conferred upon me by the invitation to deliver the Croonian Lecture before this Society .
In conveying that invitation the Council did me the further service of indicating a desire that the lecture should deal with " The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
" From the wording of the title thus suggested , and from their choice to deal with this subject of one whose own activities have lain outside the conventional limits of immunological study , I gather that the Council 's intention was that the lecture should deal with the interest of the phenomena of anaphylaxis for a wider field of biological enquiry than that to which their investigation primarily belongs .
You will not expect or desire that I shall attempt a detailed review of the enormous literature which has grown up , with almost unique luxuriance , round the study of anaphylaxis .
I shall deal with the history of the investigation in summary fashion , mentioning few of the participants by name , and giving only such broad outlines as will serve to make clear the nature of the problem to any who may be imperfectly familiar with it .
In presenting some of my own experiments in somewhat fuller detail , I am guided by what I believe to be the Council 's desire , that I should put before you a personal and individual view , rather than embark on the hopeless endeavour to compress The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
127 within the limits of a lecture the material for a judicial appreciation of the evidence .
Attention was first definitely drawn to the phenomenon now generally known as anaphylaxis by Riehet* in 1902 .
He was investigating the action of a poisonous protein obtained from sea-anemones .
Having on one occasion injected into the vein of a dog a dose small enough to cause only slight and evanescent symptoms , he gave another similar injection to the same animal some weeks later , expecting to find some degree of immunity to the poison .
Contrary to expectation , this second injection caused an immediate and violent intoxication , to which the dog succumbed .
The phenomenon was found to be of regular occurrence when this or other poisonous proteins were administered in this way , with a sufficiently long interval between the injections .
It appeared to Richet to be the direct opposite of immunity or " phylaxis , " and he named it " anaphylaxis .
" The name would be difficult to defend on the ground of etymology ; it does not properly express even the imperfect conception which its author had in mind at the time ; but usage and convenience have given it superabundant sanction .
The experiments of Arthusf on the increasing sensitiveness of rabbits to successive injections of horse serum , and the investigations following a further accidental discovery of the phenomenon by Theobald Smith , J in 1904 , showed its nature in a truer light .
It was noticed that guinea-pigs , which had some weeks previously received a very small injection of horse 's blood serum reacted to a further injection , of this normally very innocuous substance , as to an acute poison .
It soon became clear that anaphylaxis was not a state of diminished resistance to the action of a normally poisonous protein , but a condition in which a previously injected protein , whether naturally poisonous or not , acted like a poison of a very acute type , the symptoms produced being characteristic of the condition and of the species of animal exhibiting them , but in no way of the substance .
If the latter had a natural toxicity the anaphylactic animal was , indeed , immune as regards this , reacting now to the substance simply as to any protein to which it had been rendered specifically sensitive .
General interest being now aroused in the phenomenon , it was recalled that Magendie had already recorded its occurrence in 1839 , and that several other observers had given it incidental mention at later dates , without having * ' C. R. Soc. de Biol. , ' 1902 .
t ' Bull .
Soc. Biol. , ' 1903 .
t Theobald Smith , 'Journ .
Med. Res. , ' 1904 ; Otto , 'v .
Leutold Gedenkschr .
, ' 1906 ; Rosenau and Anderson , ' Hyg .
Lab .
Bull .
, ' Washington , No. 29 , 1906 ; No. 36 , 1907 ; No. 38 , 1907 .
L 2 Dr. H. H. Dale .
realised its meaning and importance .
Its relation to certain conditions seen in man began also to be recognised\#151 ; asthma provoked by the exhalations of certain animals , hay fever , and analogous idiosyncrasies .
In 1905 v. Pirquet and Schick* had described the accelerated and intensified reaction to horse serum in patients receiving a second therapeutic injection .
Richet 's further experiments , and others in America and Germany following Theobald Smith 's discovery , quickly established the main characteristics of the condition .
An interval of one to several weeks , varying with the substance and the animal , must elapse after the first injection before a second would produce the abnormal reaction ; an additive or cumulative effect was therefore out of the question .
The sensitiveness was highly specific ; if an animal received a first injection of horse serum , for example , it became anaphylactic to that serum only , and not to that of a sheep or a man .
If blood or serum from an animal which had been rendered sensitive was injected into a normal animal , the specific sensitiveness was transmitted to the latter , which was rendered " passively anaphylactic .
" In all these respects anaphylaxis closely resembles immunity .
To use the terms of immunology , the substance in the preparatory injection acts as an " antigen , " evoking the appearance of some new constituent or " antibody " in the blood or tissues of the subject ; on the presence of this " antibody " depends the abnormal reaction to the second injection , and its transfer to a normal animal conveys the specific sensitiveness .
In the nature of the substances producing it , and in the limits of its specificity , anaphylaxis shows , moreover , a very striking resemblance to a particular type of immunity , associated with the production of a particular type of antibody .
The typical anaphylactic antigens are the natural , large-moleculed proteins of cell-protoplasm , and of body-fluids such as blood or lymph .
Attempts to demonstrate anaphylaxis to naturally occurring lipoid substances have provided no convincing evidence .
The guinea-pig is the animal which has formed the subject of most of the experiments on this point .
It occupies , as we shall see , a peculiar position in the ease and regularity with which it can be rendered anaphylactic , and in the dramatic intensity with which it reacts to a further injection of the antigen .
The traces of protein which suffice to produce anaphylaxis in this species are so minute , that it is practically impossible to exclude them from lipoidal extracts of tissues .
Carbohydrates have certainly no power of producing anaphylaxis .
1 mentioned the native proteins as the typical anaphylactic antigens .
Purification , however , does not diminish their activity in this direction .
* v. Pirquet und Schick , ' Die Serumkrankheit , ' Vienna , 1905 .
The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
129 Osborne and Wells* have demonstrated typical anaphylaxis to the crystalline proteins from various seeds , and to the crystallised albumin from white of egg.f Hartley and I| observed it with a very highly purified sample of crystallized albumin from horse-serum .
Indeed , it would seem that purification of the protein diminishes the effective dose .
Wells produced anaphylaxis in a guinea-pig with a preparatory injection of 1/ 20,000 mgrm .
of crystallised egg-albumin , while 1/ 20 mgrm .
of the same preparation sufficed to kill a guinea-pig rendered anaphylactic to it .
While purification does not diminish the antigenic efficiency , any denaturat-ing influence rapidly destroys it .
Proteins which are coagulable by heat lose the action when their solutions are boiled ; others , like casein , which are not coagulable , retain their antigenic properties after boiling. .
The earlier products of digestive hydrolysis probably retain the property to some extent , but it rapidly disappears as digestion proceeds , and is completely lacking in the free amino-acids .
It is of special interest to note that racemization of a protein , by gentle warming with alkali , completely destroys its antigenic activity ( Ten BroekS ) .
We have seen that the sensitiveness is highly specific .
Injection of blood serum , for example , produces anaphylaxis to serum from the same species , but no abnormal sensitiveness to that from others ; at most , a trace of sensitiveness to serum from closely related species can be detected .
The reaction discriminates , however , not only between substances from different species , but between the constituents of different organs from the same species , and finally between different pure proteins from the same organ or tissue , as well as between corresponding pure proteins from different species .
Wells|| found that each of the five proteins from the hen 's egg could produce a separate and more or less specific anaphylaxis in the guinea-pig .
Hartley and I ( loc. cit.)found that anaphylaxis discriminated between the three proteins separable from horse serum .
A guinea-pig which received a preparatory injection of the pure euglobulin became sensitive to this , but remained indifferent to the pure albumin , and vice If the animal received a small preparatory injection of the whole serum , the sensitiveness to euglobulin appeared first ( 8-10 days ) , that to albumin only after an interval about twice as long ( 16-20 days ) .
Even between the two globulins , the so-called eu- and pseudo-globulins , the discrimination was clear , though less rigid , possibly on account of the difficulty of purification .
* ' Journ. Infect .
Dis .
, ' vol. 8 , p. 66 ( 1911 ) ; vol. 12 , p. 341 ( 1913 ) .
+ ' Journ. Infect .
Dis .
, ' vol. 5 , p. 449 ( 1908 ) .
+ ' Biochem. Journ. , ' vol. 10 , p. 408 ( 1916 ) .
S 'Journ .
Biol. Chem. , ' vol. 17 , p. 369 ( 1914 ) .
|| 'Journ .
Infect .
Dis .
, ' vol. 9 , p. 147 ( 1911 ) .
Dr. H. H. Dale .
Now , in the nature of the substances which produce it , in the conditions which destroy , weaken or modify their action as antigens , and in the limits of its specific discrimination , anaphylaxis shows a remarkable and suggestive similarity to the well-known type of immunity dependent on the so-called " precipitin " reaction.* If any of the proteins which typically produce anaphylaxis is injected in suitably large doses into an animal , at intervals too short to allow the appearance of a definite anaphylaxis , the injections evoke a change in the blood serum and body fluids of such a nature that , when the serum or other fluid is mixed with a solution of the immunising antigen , often in very high dilutions , a mutual precipitation of the proteins occurs .
The precipitin reaction discriminates between individual proteins , such as those , from a serum , just as the anaphylactic reaction does .
One other example , out of a vast number available , must suffice to illustrate the close correspondence in specificity between the two types of reaction .
Among body proteins , that of the crystalline lens occupies a peculiar position as an antigen .
Through a large range of species this protein acts as a common precipitating antigen .
A precipitating serum , prepared by immunising an animal with lens proteins from the eyes of horses , will form precipitates equally well with lens protein from ox , cat , man , or other species , including even that to which the animal furnishing the serum belongs .
The lens , cut off completely from the circulation , seems to behave in this respect as though its constituents were alien to the species .
As an anaphylactic antigen the behaviour of the lens protein is exactly similar ; f it is even on record that a guinea-pig has been rendered anaphylactic by an injection of protein from one of its own lenses , and subsequently poisoned by injecting protein from the other .
A large volume of indirect evidence of this kind strongly suggests that the antibody causing anaphylaxis is identical with the so-called precipitin .
But there is one obvious and apparently fundamental difficulty in the way of assuming their identity .
The serum of the anaphylactic guinea-pig contains no demonstrable precipitin ; that is to say , it forms no visible precipitate when mixed with the sensitizing antigen .
On the other hand the animal in which , as the result of repeated injections , a strong precipitating quality has been acquired by the serum , is not anaphylactic but immune .
The difficulty , however , is not so fatal as it appears .
We have seen that * Cf .
Friedberger , ' Zeitschr .
f. Immun , , ' vol. 2 , p. 208 ( 1909 ) ; Doerr and Russ , ibid. , vol. 3 , p. 706 ( 1909 ) .
f Uhlenkuth and Andrejew , ' Arb .
aus d. k. Gesundheitsamt , ' vol. 30 , No. 2 ; Kraus , Doerr , and Sobma , * Wien .
klin .
Wochenschr .
, ' vol. 21 , p. 1084 ( 1908 ) .
The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
131 anaphylaxis can be transmitted to a normal animal by serum from one which is itself anaphylactic .
It is found , however , that serum from an immunized animal is even more effective in thus rendering a normal one passively anaphylactic , and that its efficiency , measured by the reciprocal of the volume required to communicate a given intensity of anaphylaxis , is closely parallel to the intensity of its precipitating quality .
There is another feature of this production of passive anaphylaxis in the guinea-pig which is highly suggestive .
When serum from an anaphylactic or immune animal is injected into a normal guinea-pig , even when the injection is made into a vein , no trace of the transmitted sensitiveness can be detected for a period of some hours , and it is not fully developed until a day or so after the injection .
By a series of ingenious experiments the late Bichard Weil , * of New York , was able to follow the fate of the antibody after such transference to the normal guinea-pig , and to show that the passive anaphylaxis did not begin to appear until the antibody began to leave the blood , and that most of the antibody had disappeared from the circulation by the time the sensitiveness was fully developed .
When the animal had thus been rendered sensitive , a further large injection of the immune serum protected the animal for the time being against the otherwise fatal effect of an injection of the antigen .
All this evidence seems to point clearly in one direction .
It strongly suggests that the so-called anaphylactic antibody and the precipitin of the immune serum are either identical or very closely similar ; that the remarkable difference in physiological response to the antigen , between the anaphylactic and the immune animal , depends on the different distribution of the antibody between the blood and the cells of the vital organs ; that the antigen acts as a poison to the anaphylactic animal because its reaction with the antibody takes place in the cells ; but that an excess of antibody in the blood protects the cells , by removing the antigen from the sphere of action before it reaches them , and thereby renders the animal immune .
This is the conception of anaphylaxis and its relation to immunity which I shall endeavour to commend to you with the aid of some experimental results of my own work .
It was one of the earliest to be put forward , being known in the language of the side-chain theory as the theory of " sessile receptors .
" It must be admitted that the evidence in its support has been obtained almost entirely by experiments on the guinea-pig , and that there is reason for hesitation in applying it to species in which anaphylaxis has as yet been less thoroughly investigated .
Experiments on the guinea-pig , however , * ' Journ. Med. Res. , ' vol. 27 , p. 525 ( 1913 ) ; vol. 29 , p. 233 ( 1913 ) .
Dr. H. H. Dale .
supplied also the evidence advanced in support of other theories , which have largely displaced this conception in the estimation of investigators on the continent of Europe , and , to a less degree , in America .
A very large proportion of the vast literature of the subject is devoted to their support and elaboration .
Before dealing with these alternative conceptions , it is necessary to give some account of the physiological mechanism of the poisonous action of the antigen on the anaphylactic animal .
The complex of symptoms , often spoken of as the anaphylactic shock , differs widely in the various species in which it has been observed , though the symptoms in each species are fairly constant .
In the guinea-pig the picture is dominated by an asphyxiating obstruction of the respiration , * due to contraction of the plain muscle surrounding the bronchial tubes , which produces a valve-like closure of the lumen , f so that air can be sucked into the chest by violent effort , but cannot again be expelled .
In the dog the main characteristic is a profound fall of blood-pressure , with congestion and haemorrhagic oedema of the alimentary mucous membranes .
] : The liver in this species becomes enormously swollen and congested , and it has been shown , by ManwaringS and others , that if the blood is diverted from the liver , the general effects on the circulation are weak or absent .
In the rabbit the central feature appears to be a failure of the heart .
There are , in addition , certain features common to all species , if the fatal termination is postponed long enough to permit their appearance\#151 ; flushing and irritation of the skin , loss or impairment of the natural coagulability of the blood , scarcity of leucocytes and agglutination of the blood platelets , and rapid fall of body temperature owing to depression of the metabolism .
The differences , however , are very striking , and would be puzzling , were it not that the contrasted symptoms represent , in each case , the characteristic reaction of the species to a large class of poisonous proteins and protein derivatives\#151 ; peptones , protamines , bacterial proteins , and various extracts of animal organs .
The main features in each case\#151 ; asphyxiating bronchial spasm in the guinea-pig , collapse of the circulation in the dog\#151 ; were found by Laidlaw and myself|| to be produced also by the organic base , amino-ethyl-glyoxaline , produced from the diamino-acid histidine by decarboxylation , and usually known as " histamine .
" More recently , with the co-operation of Prof. * Aver and Lewis , 'Journ .
Exp. Med. , ' vol. 12 , p. 151 ( 1910 ) ; Biedl and Kraus , ' Wien .
klin .
Wochenschr .
, ' No. 23 , p. 385 ( 1910 ) .
t Anderson and Schultz , 'Proc .
Soc. Exp. Biol , and Med. , ' vol. 7 , p. 32(1910 ) ; Schultz and Jordan , ' Journ. Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 2 , p. 375 ( 1911 ) .
+ Biedl and Kraus , ' Wien .
klin .
Wochenschr .
, ' No. 23 , p. 363 ( 1909 ) .
S ' Zeitschr .
f. Imrnun .
, ' vol. 8 , p. 1 ( 1910 ) .
|| ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 41 , p. 318 ( 1910 ) .
The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
133 Kichards* of Philadelphia , we analysed this type of action more fully , and were able to reduce the main features of the complex , as seen in different species , to an action predominantly on two tissues\#151 ; stimulation of plain muscle fibres to intense tonus , and a poisoning of the endothelium forming the walls of the capillaries , with the result that the blood tended to collect at the periphery in the widened capillary spaces , while the plasma escaped through the abnormally permeable endothelial cells .
With some poisons the injury is so severe that the blood itself escapes from the capillaries and passes into the tissues , as in cases of severe anaphylactic shock in the dog .
There are minor differences of distribution of the action of the different poisons of this class , but the fundamental community of the type is , I think , unmistakable .
To this common type of toxic action , which obviously has a very wide pathological importance , the anaphylactic shock conforms .
In the guinea-pig the action on the plain muscle of the bronchioles often produces such rapid death that the rest of the complex has not time to develop ; in the dog the effect on plain muscle is relatively slight or wanting , and the main effect is that on the blood-capillaries , especially in the liver .
It is of special interest , for our immediate purpose , to note that substances having this type of action are liberated by injury of various cells and tissues , including the blood .
The latter in clotting acquires an evanescent toxicity of this type , which is accentuated by rough treatment calculated to injure the corpuscles and platelets .
I may allow myself a momentary and very slight digression , to mention that during the war this type of action has come to light in a quarter not hitherto suspected , as at least an important factor in some of the conditions , loosely classified as " shock , " following massive injury of the soft tissues , from which poisonous substances appear to be absorbed into the circulation .
This striking .
resemblance between the anaphylactic shock and the effects of certain protein derivatives , formed the basis of the alternative theories of the nature of anaphylactic shock , to which a very large proportion of the work on the .subject has been devoted .
These other theories have in common the supposition that a toxic substance or condition arises in the blood , to which the symptoms are immediately due .
Some have supposed that the symptoms following the re-injection of the antigen were due to the liberation in the blood of toxic products of protein hydrolysis . !
In an earlier form of this conception it was supposed that the formation of the complex of antigen and antibody brought the former into relation * ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 52 , pp. 110 , 355 ( 1918 ) .
t Richet , ' C. R. Soc. de Biol. , ' vol. 61 , p. 1005 ( 1909 ) ; Vaughan , ' Zeitsehr .
f. Immun .
, ' vol. 11 , p. 673 ( 1911 ) ; also 'Protein Split Products , ' NeAV York , 1913 .
Dr. H. H. Dale .
with a proteolytic ferment in the blood , and initiated its rapid digestion.* In a more recent form of the theory it is supposed that the formation of this complex removes the antitryptic factor present in normal blood , releases the action of the tryptic ferment , and thereby initiates an autolytic cleavage of the blood proteins.f Another type of theory regards the formation of the complex of antigen and antibody as disturbing the delicate equilibrium of the plasma colloids like contact with a foreign surface , thereby initiating changes analogous to those which precede clotting , and imparting to the blood a toxicity similar to that which appears during that process , or in some vaguer way rendering it toxic by disturbance of the state of colloidal solution .
] : If we consider the large mass of evidence put forward in support of these plausible and attractive hypotheses , we find that it almost all depends on the possibility of artificially enhancing the toxicity of blood serum in vitro .
Serum freshly separated from clotted blood retains some of the toxicity which is developed during clotting , but much of this toxicity seems to have disappeared .
This natural slight toxicity of a fresh serum can be enhanced , or revived , by treating it in various ways .
Some of these have an apparent relation to the anaphylactic phenomena , as when serum is incubated with the specific precipitate formed by an antigen with a precipitating serum .
In some the connection is remote , as when the serum is incubated with an emulsion of dead or living bacteria .
Serum has been rendered toxic by shaking it with chloroform , by acidulating it and filtering through kieselguhr , by contact with kaolin , and with sols of silica , agar-agar , starch , inulin , or with heat-coagulated protein .
S In some cases the appearance of the toxicity is accompanied by autolytic cleavage of the serum proteins , in others , none can be detected .
In some experiments with Walpole|| I found that autolysis of serum or plasiqa , brought about by removing the natural antitryptic factor , was accompanied by liberation of a thrombokinetic substance .
Injection of such serum into a guinea-pig caused rapid death , with symptoms having a superficial resemblance to the anaphylactic shock ; but the cause of death was a massive coagulation of blood in all the vessels .
Serum rendered toxic by incubation with agar , on the other hand , which produces no perceptible autolysis , kills the * Friedberger , 'Zeitschr .
f. Irninun .
, ' vol. 4 ( 1909 ) .
+ Jobling and Petersen , ' Journ. Exp. Med. , ' vol. 20 , p. 37 ( 1914 ) ; Bronfenbrenner , ' Journ. Exp. Med. , ' vol. 21 , p. 480 ( 1915 ) .
t Doerr , 'Kolle und Wassermann 's Handbuch , ' 1913 , Art .
" Anapliylaxie " ; Novy and De Kruif , 'Journ .
Infect .
Dis .
, ' vol. 20 , Nos. 5 and 6 ( 1917 ) .
S A review of experiments of this type is given by Sachs , ' Kolloid Zeitschr .
, ' 1919 .
|| ' Biochem. Journ. , ' vol. 10 , p. 331 ( 1916 ) .
The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
135 guinea-pig in a manner much more closely resembling the anaphylactic shock .
It may freely be admitted that a full understanding of the nature of the changes in serum , which give it the power of inducing these symptoms , might throw a great deal of light on our problem .
The weakness of all this evidence , however , seems to me to lie in the lack of clear connection with the conditions of the true anaphylactic reaction .
Much of the work seems to have proceeded on the unconscious assumption that the symptom complex was in itself characteristic , and that the appearance of this type of toxicity was sufficient warrant for classing the phenomenon as anaphylactic .
We have seen that the symptoms are not characteristic ; the essential feature of anaphylaxis is that they are produced by a substance which normally has no such effect .
If it could be proved that the injection of the antigen into the anaphylactic animal produced a toxicity of the blood , similar to that imparted to the serum by these various procedures in the evidence would be strong .
But it is just here that it fails .
If the enhancement of the toxicity of serum in vitro , by these various substances , really reproduces a process occurring in the blood in the anaphylactic shock , they should be even more effective when injected into the living blood-stream .
Experience shows , however , that sols of agar and.starch can usually be injected with impunity into a guinea-pig 's circulation .
Further , if the appearance of toxicity in the serum when treated with these reagents , reproduces the effect of the union of antigen and antibody in the blood , the most uniformly successful method of evoking the toxicity should be to mix serum from an anaphylactic animal with the corresponding antigen .
This has been tried a large number of times , and I think it is a fair summary of the results to say that , though successes have been recorded* and emphasized , the usual outcome has been complete failure .
The fact that recourse is had to such artificial procedures for preparing the so-called " anaphylatoxin " is sufficient indication of the failure of the natural and obvious method .
The rarity with which the anaphylactic serum is rendered toxic by contact with the antigen is in striking contrast with the regularity with which the toxicity is acquired by contact with agar , starch or coagulated protein , which have no power of producing the anaphylactic shock in vivo .
Still more difficult is it to reconcile these theories of the anaphylactic phenomenon with the fact , already mentioned , that injection of the antigen sinmltaneously with or soon after the antibody is uniformly without effect , at any rate in guinea-pigs , to the phenomena in which species these theories have * Richet , Vaughan , loc. cit. , Anderson and Frost , 'Hyg .
Lab .
Bull .
, ' No. 64 , Washington , 1910 .
Dr. H. H. Dale .
been applied .
If the shock is due to changes set up in the blood , the optimum conditions should be provided by the simultaneous injection into the blood of the two necessary factors .
I would not be understood to deny the possibility that liberation of toxic substances may play some part in the anaphylactic shock , or that in some species , in which the phenomena have been less completely analysed , it may play a larger share in the effect than in the guinea-pig .
But I do not think that the evidence , in favour of the earlier and simpler view of the nature of anaphylaxis in this species , has been in any way weakened by the immense amount of industry and ingenuity devoted to the search for an anaphylatoxin .
In support of the earlier conception , which makes anaphylaxis depend upon a location of the antibody in the cells of vital organs , I propose now to put before you some evidence of a more direct nature , derived from my own experiments .
I may remind you that the most characteristic feature of the anaphylactic shock in the guinea-pig is the contraction of the plain muscle surrounding the bronchioles , causing asphyxiation .
It was early shown by Aver and Lewis { loc. cit. ) that this was independent of the nerve supply , and due to a direct action on the muscle fibres .
The only question remaining , therefore , was whether the muscle fibres were themselves sensitive to the antigen , or whether the antigen acted by causing the production of some toxic substance in the blood or in some other organ , which then acted on the plain muscle .
I found that , if the lungs of the anaphylactic guinea-pig were removed from the body and their blood-vessels perfused clear of blood by Kinger 's saline solution , while the lungs were rhythmically inflated by a pump , addition of a trace of the specific antigen to the perfused fluid caused an immediate constriction of the bronchioles , so intense that air could not be forced past the obstruction .
The effect was perfectly specific , and it seemed clear that the action of the antigen on the plain muscle of the bronchioles was direct , and independent of other organs and of the presence of the blood .
Other kinds of plain muscle , more convenient for observation when isolated from the body , such as a horn of the uterus suspended in Binger 's solution , gave quite similar results .
While my own experiments were in progress , Schultz , * of Washington , published experiments demonstrating the reaction to the antigen of isolated intestinal plain muscle from anaphylactic guinea-pigs .
Using the horn of the uterus of a young virgin guinea-pig as an easily isolated and reactive sample of plain muscle , I was able to * ' Journ. Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 1 , p. 549 ( 1910 ) ; vol. 2 , p. 221 ( 1910 ) ; ' Hyg .
Lab .
Bull .
, ' No. 80 , Washington , 1912 .
The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
137 demonstrate practically all the characteristic phenomena of active and passive anaphylaxis.* Fig. 1 illustrates the exquisite specificity of the reaction as exhibited by this method .
The uterine horn from a guinea-pig rendered sensitive by an injection of twoe-c- of horse serum , given 14 days previously , was suspended in 250 c.c. of Binger 's solution at 37 ' C. , to which , at A , B , C , D , E , and F , were added in succession doses of OT c.c. of the sera from sheep , cat , rabbit , dog , and man , and of egg-white .
None of these substances had any effect .
Finally , at G , OT c.c. of horse serum was added , and the uterine muscle at once responded with maximal tonus .
Fig. 2 is taken from a similar experiment , in which the guinea-pig had been made sensitive by an injection of egg-white .
0'5 c.c. of horse serum , at A , is in this case without effect ; OT c.c. of egg-white , at B , causes a maximal response .
ABC D \#163 ; T Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 1 ( from ' Journ. Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 214 ) .
Fig. 2 ( from 'Journ .
Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 180 ) .
Fig. 3 is taken from one of a large number of experiments in which an attempt was made to eliminate the possibility of a participation in the phenomenon by traces of blood or serum left in the vessels of the excised plain muscle .
The blood vessels of the uterus were continuously perfused with Binger 's solution for an hour before the organ was removed from the body .
The delicacy and specificity of the response are thereby in no degree impaired .
The plain muscle , from a guinea-pig sensitive to a horse-serum , is indifferent to cat and sheep serum , added at A and B , but responds maximally to OT c.c. of horse serum at C. * 'Journ .
Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 167 ( 1912 ) .
Dr. H. H. Dale Fig. 4 shows a record of the reaction taken on a faster moving surface .
The addition to the bath of Finger 's solution of a small dose of the antigen to which the plain muscle is sensitive , is signalled by a small displacement of the recording lever .
The response begins within 10 seconds , with no greater delay than that shown by the response to many drugs similarly applied .
It is difficult to suppose that this interval suffices for the elaboration of a poison from the antigen and the body fluids , whether intracellular or extracellular .
It suggests rather that the antigen acts as a direct poison on the specifically sensitive cells .
It has been suggested that , though a cellular location of the antibody may account for the phenomena of active anaphylaxis , those of passive anaphylaxis must be due to an interaction between antigen and antibody in the circulation .
The experiments of Weil , to which I have already referred , served to make it clear that passive anaphylaxis only develops as the transferred antibody leaves the circulation for the tissue cells .
Fig. 5 , from an experiment on a passively anaphylactic guinea-pig , shows that in this condition also the bloodless plain muscle is specifically sensitive .
The records in figs. 6 and 7 are from a single experiment and show that the sensitive plain muscle , after exposure to an effective dose of the antigen ( A ) , loses its sensitiveness to a further dose ( B ) , but that it can again be rendered sensitive by exposure in vitro for some hours to serum from sensitive guinea-pigs .
When this is washed away completely by numerous changes of Ringer 's solution the plain muscle again responds to the antigen ( E ) , but is Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 3 ( from ' Journ. Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 177 ) .
Fig. 4 ( from 'Journ .
Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vo ! .
4 , p. 178 ) .
The Biological Significance Anaphylaxis .
again desensitized , and fails to respond to a further dose ( F ) .
The dose in eaich ease was 0'05 c.c. of horse-serum .
The uterine plain muscle of a normal guinea-pig can be rendered sensitive by prolonged perfusion with serum from sensitive or immune animals .
The sensitiveness is barely perceptible after perfusion for one hour ( fig. 8 ) , but So " I I ) I i-U4 h \#166 ; U li M. I I 1 i W Fig. 5 .
Fig. 6 .
R , 30 " A B Tw i \gt ; \gt ; 11 \gt ; \gt ; \#187 ; \gt ; \#166 ; \#166 ; !\#166 ; \gt ; \ 11 \gt ; \gt ; .\#187 ; \ t.\gt ; .4-4-4- wunuuhiiiimut niiiiifniiiimii|i|inifii Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
Fig. 5 ( from ' Journ. Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 196 ) .
Figs. 6 and 7 ( from ' Journ. Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 4 , pp. 198 , 199 ) .
Fig. 8 ( from 'Journ .
Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 205).\#151 ; I. Control horn of normal uterus .
II .
Second horn of same after perfusion for one hour with 20 per cent , anaphylactic serum .
At A and B 0'5 c.c. horse serum .
clearly developed after five hours ( fig. 9 ) .
This corresponds wfith observations on the living guinea-pig , in which sensitiveness cannot be detected until some six hours after antibody from another animal has been injected into the circulation .
In the literature of anaphylaxis much confusion has been caused by the use of the inelegant term " antianaphylaxis " for two entirely different conditions .
We have seen that the plain muscle exposed to an effective dose of antigen Dr. H. H. Dale .
loses its sensitiveness and becomes as indifferent to the antigen as normal muscle .
The same phenomenon is seen in the guinea-pig which has recovered from a non-fatal shock ; for the time it behaves like a normal animal to further injections , and only slowly reacquires its sensitiveness .
In such an animal the reactive antibody has temporarily disappeared .
Figs. 6 and 7 illustrate the production of this condition in vitro .
To this phenomenon of desensitization the name " antianaphylaxis " has been applied .
Unfortunately , it has also been used for an entirely different condition .
If a guinea-pig is given a series of injections of a foreign protein , spaced so that each follows in succession before anaphylaxis has had time to develop\#151 ; e.g. , at four to five-day intervals\#151 ; a condition in which very large doses are tolerated is Fig. 9 ( from ' Journ. Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 206).\#151 ; I. Control horn of normal uterus .
II .
Second horn of same after perfusion for live hours with 20 per cent , anaphylactic serum .
At A and B 0-5 c.c. horse serum .
Fig. 10 ( from 'Journ .
Pharmacol , and Exp. Therap .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 194).\#151 ; Washed plain muscle from guinea-pig rendered immune to horse serum .
At A 0'5 c.c. horse serum ( in 250 c.c. ) .
produced , and persists for at least some months .
The serum of such an animal contains abundance of the anaphylactic antibody , since it can confer anaphylaxis on a normal animal in much smaller doses than the serum from one which is itself anaphylactic .
Nevertheless , the plain muscle of such a truly immune guinea-pig , as fig. 10 shows , is as acutely sensitive to the immunising antigen as that from one which is anaphylactic .
The immunity is acquired , not by loss of the sensitiveness of the tissues , but by the formation of such excess of antibody that the reaction with antigen is completed in the blood , and none reaches the sensitive cells .
These experiments led me , some years ago , definitely to adhere to the theory which regards the condition of anaphylaxis as differing from that of Fig. 9 .
Fig. 10 .
i The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
141 immunity , mainly in the distribution of the specific antibody between the-tissue-cells and the circulating fluids , and to regard the anaphylactic^ symptoms as being caused by the interaction between antigen and antibody occurring in the cells of vital organs .
As regards the phenomena seen in the guinea-pig , I believe this view is gradually winning acceptance .
In the-case of other species the evidence is less complete and the position less clear-Leyton , Leyton , and Sowton , * and also Manwaring , + have maintained that in the rabbit the evidence points to an interaction of antigen and antibody in the blood-stream as the cause of the symptoms of intoxication .
In the dogr on the other hand , in which the essential rdle of the liver in the anaphylactic reaction had been demonstrated by Manwaring , the experiments of Weil\#163 ; seem to point to a sensitization either of the intrinsic liver cells or of thn endothelial cells of liver capillaries , since local introduction of the antigen , , into one branch of the portal vein , was found to cause a local reaction , , confined to the corresponding lobe of the liver .
Eather , however , than discuss all the evidence as to the nature of the-anaphylactic reaction in other species , which would require more time than I have at disposal , I desire to invite your attention to some points of a more-general interest , which arise from the conception of the anaphylactic reaction which I have put before you .
" We have seen that there is good reason for regarding anaphylaxis as a phase in the production of the type of immunity associated with the precipitin reaction .
This represents a mechanism of defence against the incorporation-in to the tissues of proteins differing ip type from those characteristic of the species .
Proteins taken in the ordinary way as food are broken in the intestine into their constituent amino-acids , from which the body can again elaborate its characteristic proteins .
When an alien protein gains accidental or artificial access to the circulation without undergoing this cleavage , the-body slowly forms proteins of which the colloid particles exhibit , with those of the alien protein , the phenomenon of mutual aggregation .
If the same foreign protein is again introduced the defensive mechanism is ready , and aggregation occurs at once .
It is highly probable that this process is the preliminary to hydrolysis and elimination , for such injection of a foreign protein , into an animal prepared by previous injections , is followed by an increased output of nitrogen in the urine , considerably in excess of that corresponding to the protein injected .
If the proteins specially modified to produce this defensive aggregation are located in the cells of vital organs , .
* ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 50 , p. 265 ( 1916 ) .
t 'Trans .
Soc. Exp. Biol , and Med. , ' vol. 13 , p. 173 ( 1916 ) .
f ' Journ. Immun .
, ' vol. 2 , p. 525 ( 1917 ) .
VOL. XCI.\#151 ; B. M Dr. H. H. Dale .
I the animal is said to be anaphylactic , and the sudden reintroduction of the foreign protein may lead to the death of the individual in defence of the type .
A discussion of the teleology of the condition would lead us too far into considerations of the pathology of infection .
I may content myself with pointing out that the sudden introduction of a foreign protein into the general circulation is not a natural event .
An animal may be highly immune to infection with a micro-organism through natural channels , and yet anaphylactic to the proteins of that organism introduced by artificial means .
A generalised anaphylactic reaction , the anaphylactic shock , is a creation of the injection needle .
A localised anaphylactic reaction , on the other hand , defends the system from invasion at the expense of the tissues immediately affected .
Anaphylaxis , as we see it in the laboratory , is not the opposite of immunity ; it is the physiological response , of an animal in a certain phase of immunity , to the artificial test which we impose .
The most interesting feature of this defensive mechanism is the exquisite fineness of its discrimination between foreign proteins , which by ordinary physical and chemical methods are indistinguishable .
All attempts to explain the reactions of immunity on electro-chemical lines , to compare the precipitin-reaction , for example , to the mutual precipitation of two oppositely charged amphoteric colloids , are at least premature , in that they fail , in the present state of knowledge , to account for this phenomenon of specificity .
Whatever the difference may be between the proteins which the reaction differentiates , it is nothing so obvious as a difference in the isoelectric point .
On the other hand , a mere analysis into amino-acids often shows no difference in composition .
Osborne and Wells found that corresponding proteins , from seeds of plants belonging to the same order , e.g. , the gliadins from wheat and barley , contained the same amino-acids in apparently the same proportions , though the anaphylactic reaction detected a difference between them .
It is obvious , however , that a mere analysis into amino-acids tells very little concerning the structure of the molecule .
The vast number of different ways in which an identical large assortment of amino-acids can be linked together offers almost indefinite possibilities of variation in the intimate pattern of the molecular fabric .
The recent work of Dakin and Dudley has given the first hint of a connection , between variation in molecular configuration and the specific difference of corresponding proteins .
When a protein is racemised as far as possible by warming with alkali , and then subjected to complete hydrolysis , some of the amino-acids are found to have undergone complete racemisation , while others retain , to a greater or less degree , their original optical activity .
Dakin has given reason for believing that the amino-acids which The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
143 escape racemisation are those occupying the terminal positions in the peptide chains , out of which the large protein molecule is supposed to be built .
Dudley and Woodman* found that the caseins from sheep 's and cow 's milk , though containing the same amino-acids in the same proportions , showed a small but definite difference when examined by this method .
The amino-acids escaping racemisation were not identical in the two cases .
It seemed of interest to determine directly whether a difference of this kind could be related to a difference of behaviour as anaphylactic antigens .
Dr. Dakin and I decided to make the comparison on the crystallised albumins from the eggs of the domestic fowl and the duck .
Dr. Dakin prepared the two pure proteins and conducted the analysis .
The two are indistinguishable by any ordinary method .
Their physical properties appear to be identical , and they contain the same amino-acids in apparently identical proportions .
The results of the racemisation are shown in Table I. The difference is small but quite definite , and might well be supposed to correspond with a far greater difference in the structure of the whole molecule .
What we have here is , as it were , an imperfect glimpse of the edge of the pattern .
Figs. 11 , 12 , and 13 show their behaviour as anaphylactic antigens , the tracings being again records of the contraction of the isolated uterine muscle of specifically sensitised guinea-pigs .
Fig. 11 is from a guinea-pig sensitised to hen-albumin .
Figs. 12 and 13 are from two horns of the uterus of a guinea-pig sensitised to duck-albumin .
Table I. !
Amino-acid .
State of optical activity .
Comments .
" Kacemised " hen-albumin .
" Kacemised " duck-albumin .
Alanine Yaline ' Leucine Proline Phenylalanine Tyrosine Aspartic acid ... Glutamic acid Histidine Arginine Lysine Not racemised Partly racemised Mostly racemised Mostly racemised Completely inactive Inactive Mostly inactive , some active Completely inactive Completely inactive Active Inactive Not racemised Partly racemised Mostly active Mostly racemised Completely inactive Inactive Completely inactive Completely inactive Mostly active Active Inactive No difference .
No difference .
A definite difference .
No difference .
No difference .
No difference .
Definite difference .
No difference .
Definite difference .
No difference .
No difference .
It must not be assumed that all antigenic difference necessarily depends on this kind of structural difference .
There is evidence , for example , in favour of the view that the euglobulin and pseudo-globulin of a serum represent * 'Biochem .
Journ. , ' vol. 9 , p. 97 ( 1915 ) .
M 2 Dr , H. H. Dale .
one common basal protein , associated in the one case with a phosphorus-containing lipoid , which confers upon it its distinctive physical properties .
Whether this association is also the source of the antigenic disparity can only Duck r 1 t l t'l't ITr IT M ! !
n l 1 IT* l *'TT TTTTTTTTT , t Fig. 11 ( from ' Biochem. Journ. , ' vol. 13 , p. 253,1919).\#151 ; Uterus from guinea-pig sensitized by 1 mgrm .
of hen egg-albumin .
21st day .
Ringer 's solution changed at the break in the record .
Volume of bath = 70 c.c. Fig. 12 ( from 'Biochem .
Journ. , ' vol. 13 , p. 254 , 1919).\#151 ; Uterine muscle from guinea-pig sensitised by 1 mgrm .
of duck egg-albumin , 28th day .
be decided by a more complete investigation , but that the disparity exists is , I think , beyond doubt .
Fig. 14 shows a record of plain muscle from a guinea-pig rendered sensitive by an injection of the euglobulin of horse-serum The Biological Significance Anaphylaxis .
145 13 days previously .
At A and B doses of 1 mgrm .
and 10 mgrm .
respectively , of the corresponding pseudo-globulin were added to the bath .
At C 10 mgrm .
of the euglobulin were similarly added , and the same again at D. But the cases of greatest interest , as presenting the greatest difficulty of interpretation , were those in which antigenic , difference could not hitherto be related to any chemical or physical difference , but in which an indication of stereochemical Fig. 13 ( from ' Bioehem .
Journ. , ' vol. 13 , p. 255,1919).\#151 ; Second horn of uterus from same guinea-pig as fig. 12 .
Fig. 14 ( from ' Biochem. Journ. , ' vol. 10 , p. 422 , 1916 ) .
difference is now obtained .
What may be the nature of the relation between the antibody and the antigen , in what way the antibody is adjusted to form a complex only with a protein of a certain molecular pattern , are points on which I believe no chemist would hazard a suggestion at the present stage .
The relation of enzyme to substrate , the symbol of lock and key suggest themselves ; but the lock must be much more complicated , the pattern of the key much more intricate than any for which a study of enzymes will provide 146 The Biological Significance of Anaphylaxis .
analogy .
Dakin and Dudley 's results seem to constitute a first step towards explanation of what was hitherto a completely mysterious difference .
They may even represent a first step , though a very short one , towards a recognition of the chemical differences which underly the characteristics of the species , of the variety , and even of the individual .
If a study of anaphylaxis can assist progress towards a solution of this ultimate biological mystery , it will not be difficult to justify a claim for its general biological significance .
There are problems of a more purely physiological nature , to the solution of which I believe that a study of anaphylaxis may contribute .
We have seen that the resemblance between the anaphylactic shock and the effects of certain poisons has led to attempts to explain the former in terms of the latter , by assuming that a liberation of poisons of this type is the immediate cause of the shock .
This attitude has always seemed to me illogical ; it involves the assumption that more is known concerning the mode of action of the poisons than of the antigen on the anaphylactic animal .
I believe the reverse to be the case .
If , on the evidence as it stands , one phenomenon is to be interpreted by what is known of the other , it is the anaphylactic reaction which must furnish the key to the action of poisofis producing the same type of effect , concerning which our ignorance is otherwise complete .
Much has been written concerning the action of poisons and their preferential action on certain types of cell .
Receptive substances are postulated , on which the sensitiveness of the cell depends .
In the case of the anaphylactic cell alone , we are able to obtain a " receptive substance , " the antibody , apart from the cell , and to study in the test-tube the nature of its reaction with the " drug , " the specific antigen .
We are entitled , I think , to suppose that , when antigen meets antibody in the specifically sensitive cell , the immediate effect is a change in the state of dispersion of the colloids entering into its structure .
It appears to me to be at least a legitimate working hypothesis to suppose that certain poisonous substances produce similar symptoms because they also bring about a change of this type .
We should still have to explain why such a change , occurring in a plain muscle cell , caused it to contract : occurring in an endothelial cell , caused it to become lax and permeable .
That explanation would involve a knowledge of the physiological processes of these cells which is not yet available .
On the other hand , a knowledge of the nature of the reaction underlying the anaphylactic phenomena may itself contribute to an understanding of the intimate nature of the changes which give rise to contraction and maintain tonus in plain muscle\#151 ; phenomena which still await their due share in that investigation of the nature of muscular motion , for the promotion of which the Croonian Lecture was founded .

