]\gt ; 1902 .
] On tho of Magnetisation .
229 The entirs chromosphere is supposed to consist of innumerable smalleruptions or iets of highly-heated gases to the so-called " " metallic " " prominences , which are only the more pronounced mani- festations of the same eruptive agencies .
Evidence for this is found in the characteristic features of the chromosphere , and in the detailed structure of many of the Fraunhofer lines , hich show wide emission lines lmderlying the narrow absorption lines .
These ill-defined bright lines in the normal solar spectrum are distinctly displaced the violet , ting a strong uprush of the hotter gases , whilst ths narrow absorption lines are almost in their normal ) ositions , and appear to indic a slow and uniform descent of the absorbing gases .
The final conclusion is that the flash spectrum epresents the emission of both ascending and descending gases , whilst the Fraunhcfer spectrum represents the absorption of the descending gases only .
" " On the Electrodynamic and Thermal Relations of Energy of netisation By J. LAkiMoB , , D.Sc .
, Sec. .
Received January 2 , \mdash ; Read January , 1903 .
1 .
There appears to be still soms uncertainty as to the principles on which the energy of magnetised iron is to be estimated , and the extent to which that energy is electrodynamically effective .
The following considerations are submitted as a contribution towards definite theoretical views .
The electrokinetic energy of a system of electric currents , . . .
, { iowing in complete linear circuits in free aether , is known to be ; wherein is the number of tubes of the magnetic force that the circuit , and is thus equal to extcnded over any barrier surface which blocks that circuit , being circuital ( i.e. , a stream vector ) so that all such barriers the same result .
As under steady circumstances is also derivable from a magnetic potential , which has a cyclic constant with regard to each current , this energy assumes the form in which the integrals are now extended over both faces of each 1903 .
] Tfirrmal lotions of If we compare this result with the customary magnetic vectors of Kelvin and Maxn , it appears that must represent the induction and so wili hereafter ) denoted , after , by .
The new vector , hich has a potential oyclic with respect to the finite curreuts only , represents the " " force will hereafter be denoted by , whose sig1nifieance is thus changed from henceforth .
The " " induction " " on the other hand has not necessarily a potential , is , by the constitntion of the free aether , circnital ; that is , it satisfies the condition of ssion f the enorgy now for the ordinary cnrrents , . . .
, where , . . .
are the fluxes , of magnetic inductinn , through their circuits ; this transforms as into over both faces of each barrier , which ])yGreenl 's theorem is equal to . . .
extcnded throughont all space .
Bnt there are also for the ; now to ) the cross-section of the multiplied by the component of the averaged indnction normal to its planc , and rememl ) that multiplied by this crosssection is the magnetic moment of this molecular current , it appears that is to the etic induction multiplied by the comof the magIletic in its directiolt , and } eforc is to Thus the gnetic c add to the energy the ' . . .
( ii ) together with ( iii ) [ These energies as here ( letermined are kinefic ; if they are ( as is customary ) to be considered as pofentinl , their signe must be changed .
Cf .
'Phil .
rans .
Dr. J. .
On and [ Jan. 2 , The formula ( i ) usually taken , after Maxwell 's example , to represent the enel.gy of the electrokinetic .
It here appears that it represents only the part of the energy thal is concerned with the cnrrents , arising from their interactions the interactions of the magnets lvith them : that there exists in a quantity ( u ) which is that taken ) Maxwell as the energy of magnetisation in the field , and also a quantity ( iii ) , which is purely local and constitntive , of the same general type as energy of crystallisation .
The question ises whether ( ui ) is a part of the intrinsic energy of magnetisation of different kind from ( ii ) , that it cannot even partially emerge as nlechanical work , or on the contrary the usual formula ( ii ) must be amellded .
See SS 5 , 8 .
In any case the dynamics of the field of currents ( when there are no irreversible features ) involves only that part of the energy function in which the currents operate , thus excluding both ( ii ) and ( iii ) .
3 .
The simplest sxample is that of a coil of turns carrying a current , wound uniformly a narrow iron ring-core , of crosssection and length .
On the esent basis the en ergy is made up of an electrodynamic rt and a magnetic part ; as by the Amperean , these parts is the of the ; they up all per ohlnlc islcad of the usnal former is lically ilable .
The question has raised by Lord whether the latter part , which includes the very large above , namely , in the case of iron , has any considerable mechanical effectiveness ; the question can o1lly arise when it belon gs in part to cnetism whose ultimate annulment can induce a cnrrent , when the current anishes the energy of permane1l gnetism , in the present represented by ( iii ) alone , is the only part of the energy of the system that remains .
The conclusion reached by him is that it cannot be annulled quick enough , when the carries a coil , to develope any consideral ) available electric energy by induction .
4 .
We may form a rough illustratio ] ] of the mechanical role of this purely magnetic energy considering , as the analogy of the currents , branohing system or network of pipes carrying liquids , in one of which a rbine is located , to bs driven by the stream , which will be , supposed to ) an alternating o1le .
The flow will be directed more fully into this particular pipe , and higher prebsure will also be attained , after the nlanner of the hydraulic ram , if it communicates at the side with an expansible reservoir into lvhich the liquid can readily * ' Phil. Mag 1886 : also ' ives nises , vol. 2 , 1891 , p. 6 , reprinted in ' Phil. Mag 1902 , and in 'Soientific Papers , ' , No. 272 .
1903 .
] Thermal Relations of of Jfagnatisation .
force its way , to be expelled again by the elasticity of its walls when the stream begins to set in the reverse direction .
This of kinetic )ressnre on the turbine roughly represents the electromotive pressure on a motor due to the increased gnetic flux , and the energy spenlt in expanding the reservoir it fills up represents the energy of magnetisation of the iron .
If things were perfectly reversible in tho reservoir , that is if the iron were perfectly soft , the latter energy would rise fall concomitantly with the alternations of pressure on the motor , but of course if its temperature remained constant it would co1ltribute nothing to the energy driving the motor , which must be troduced into the system from an extraneous source .
But if there ars resistaIlces involved in filling the reservoir , the operations will not ) perfectly reversible , and meohanical energy will ) lost in it by version into heat ; and moreover 011 account of the phase of its getting out of step\mdash ; still more by eltt snch as are classed mder hysteresis\mdash ; it )will operate less efficiently in directing the stl.eam of energy towards the rbine .
Both these statements have nnalogical application ) the iron in a magnetic circuit .
is rovided by the ring-coil nppose t when the current ceased in the the core })ulent , its energy ) eing the 1 tter tcrm the formula above .
This corresponds to the reservoir becoming tenlporarily choked , so that it retains its contents after the pressure that drove the liquid into it bsen removed .
The question arises whether this energy is vailablo for work .
The present aspect of the tppears to lead to the ( Lord Rayleigh 's ) that it will not be available tu any considerable unless its pressure iu the reservoir is considerable , that is , in the gnetic case , unless the is not very receptive of tiolt .
The paradox energy of , whioh is outside the electlokinetic system , can on run1ling dowIl affect system , more logy system of finite ) of In the tions of ) ] of the ystem ; whereas in Professor tive n magnetisation , when the displacement is great e1lough the structul changes by the component magnets toppling over , and after the general disturbanco thus set up has subsided with irrecoverable loss of energy into heat , thers remains a new structure to deal with .
The only way to estimate the availnble part may ) latent in the store of e1lergy of residual magnetism of an core is thns the empirical process of dstailed experiment .
Lord Rayleigh has inferred * The effective susceptibility ecollliug enormous in stecp of ove .
and the actual total rate of fall of magnetisation is ished to , which is only the fraction of the constrained loss of retained magnetism .
In this most favourable case the action of the coil or sheath thus delays the time-rate of loss of permanent magnetism in the core in the ratio , where is the effective permeability for small additio1lal forcs under the actual circumstances ; that is , the delay in reversal more than compensates the in induction .
5 .
There remains another question , when viscous and other hysteretic effects are practioally bsent so that the changes of tion exactly keep step with those of the c.urrents , the degree of ility of magnetic energy thus does not arise ; whether the energy of the magnetisation comes from the store of heat of the material and is thus concomitant with a cooling effect when no heat is supplied , or whether it is in part insic inalienable energy of the individual molecules nterely temporarily classed as magnetic .
So ib may ) the latter , it must for element of lIne depend on the state of that element alone , like the part ( iii ) of .
It already been seen that no part of ( ii ) or can be supplied from the electrodynamic field .
This points to the intrinsic energy of paramagnetism , except an unknown fraction of the local part ( iii ) , which depends only on the state of polaris tion of the element of the medium , being 1903 .
] Thjrmal of gnctisation .
derived from purely thermal sources ; and the following thermodynamic will strengthen this conclusion .
If the value of the magnetic susceptibility for any material is function of the temperature , we can perform a Carnot reversible by moving a small portion ( say a sphere ) of the substance in the permanent field of system of magnets supposed held idly magnetised by constraints .
We can move it into a stronger reionH ) of this field , of rying strength intaining it the temperature by a supply of heat from outside bodies at that ture ; we can then move it on fnrther , having stopped the supply of heat , until its temperature becomes -S ; we can move it back agaiu isothermally by aid of a sink of heat this temperature the stage is ched , when further progress back adiabatically will restore it to its original condition .
If is a functio1l only of the strength of field and of the temperature , this c , ycle will be reversible .
If 1 is heatenergy supplied at temperature , und is the work done on the sphere by bodies in the cycle , the principle of Carnot gives tho relation Now , if is small , when the cycle is taken such the of * This theo ) deduction of Curic 's law has been already given substantially in ' Phil. Trans , vol. 190 , 1897 , p. 287 .
The theory of diamagnetism , which assigns it to modification of eonformation in individual molecule by the cing field rather than to spacial orientatiou of the cYofvd of moleculcs , leads to a origin as regards analogous qucstion .
cit. as to whether diele jtric prisalion is mainly an ffair of orielltation of ltcrod moleculcs like , or ouc ot due to intern deforlnatiun of the molecule like cliamagnetisnl , is llolw vered by the expel.iments of J. Cnric and Compan ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' June 2 , 1902 ) .
It appears that the coeificient of glttss , for rapid changes , diminishes , but not vely quickly , fnll of ture , and that tures below C. duration of charge ceases to have influence on its value .
The electric excitation is thus analogous to netism and htLS no thermal ring , its energy being self-contained the molecule ; signs of the susceptibilities in two cases different , because the one is of , the otlIer of kinetic alacter .
The sharpness of Zeeman magneto.optic effect .
already led Aether Matter , ' 1900 , p. 351 ) in this direction , for it requires th polarisation in the molecule shall be of isotropic , so that there may be no axis of maximum susceptibility .
This restriction is not necessary for the final l.esult ; if is not small , and have both to be multiplied by .
same factor .
for we have here to do with the mutu energy of the applied field and the magnet , not the intrinsic local snergy of the latter by itself .
If the applied field is , the total energy employed in polarising the magnetic molecules in volume is So long the pol risation is slowly effected gainst the resilience of reversible internal elastic forces this is stored as potential energy ; any want of revcrsibihty involves degradation of some of it into heat , lvhile if the field lvere instantaneously annihilated the would ving b and vibrate , so that ultimately all would go into Let us pass the magnetio body through cycle by moving it around path in manent mitgnetio field .
of the volume S from place where the field is to one where it is , S , does mechanical work , from the magnetic attraction , of amount ( AxB8CS ) The integral of this throughout the whole oonmected system gives the virtual work for that displ cement , from which the forces asslstlng it are derived as usual .
Confining attention to the element the work supplied by it from the field , to outside systems which it drives , in traversing any path is thus .
elatio of of the integral being taken along the path .
If is a function of , that is if the magnetism is in part thoroughly permanent , and in part induced hysteresis , so that the operation is reversible , this work must vanish for a complete cycle ; otherwise energy would inevitably be created either in the direct path or else in the reversed one of the complete system of which is a part .
Thus the negation of perpetual molion in that case demands thnt , where 4 ) is function of , involving on lie even power and quadratic for smttll fields .
Its coefficients then the magnetic lstants for general aeolotropic material , no rotational quality in the magnetisation being thus allowable ) the doctrine of energy .
But if there is hysteresis , so that the cycle is not reversible , , or in vector product form - , represents ative mechanical done , or energy degraded , in the cycle .
In additiort to this energy conccrned tion , the cxtcrn field expends c1lergy in or the individu molecules against the intertlal foroes of the medinm , of .
In any , whatever the hysteresis , the snm of this second and the first reversed is integrable independently of the pnth , mcly , the change iu the total energy in the element , thus for a cycle hich restores things to their original state , as it ought to do The latter part is internal , and of merely thermal value as in S5 .
The former part represents ths averaged waste of direct mechanical energy in moving the iron through the cycle , and for the heat thus evolved .
It is the expression of and of wing for magneto-hysteretic waste of cYlergy in driving electric engines ; for portion of a oycle it repro- sents work rtly degraded and partly stored magnetically .
7 .
Reverting to S5 , we may profitably illnstrate by out into detail a suggestion of Lord Rayleigh ( loc. Consider ring-coil of turns with a open core of soft iron of length and cross section , whose flat ends are bent round until they face each other at a distance small compared with the diameter of section .
We can apply Hopkinson 's theory of the open magnetic circuit to trace the 1 J. Larmol .
On the and [ Jan. transformation of the energy of action bveen these poles of the core , into electrokinetic energy of the coil , as the poles close up together .
As frictionaJ waste is not essential to this question , we can consider the coil to ) a perfect conductor which will store all the without loss .
We need not tulate that the iron is of constant permeability or devoid of hysteresis .
When the distance the pole-faces is , lct the current in the coil be , .
The total is enorgy of magnetisation ; .and part of the tter may remain sub-permanent wheIl anisbcs .
prineiplc of the mngnctic ivcs , , the assuming as usual that the lines of magnetic force are.conveyed straight across the air-gap between the pole-faces .
Thus the electromagnetic energy , equal to , is ; and when is diminished by , it , s increment is approximately .
( ) In this displaoement the work expended from the electrodynamic system in mechanical attraction between the poles etiSCd to I. to , which is Coml)aring ( ii ) with ( i ) it appears that in cases for which is to which alone the principle of the magnetic circuit can be applied , the work of mechanic.al attraction by which the pols-faces can transfer potcntial energy to a spring placed between them , by compressing it , is concomitant wiCh equal increase of the electrokinetic energy if the current do not change .
As there is no source of energy , the current must therefore vary , so that the total change of electrokinetic energy given ) and ( ii ) vanishes ; that is , mnst diminish by given by } , which is practically cquivalent to This result be tely vcrified by the Lagrangian process .
in As there is infinitely small resistance , the slectric pressnro 1903 .
] TherJnal Relations of of Magnetisation .
239 the coil must be infinitely small ; hence , so that when is negligible .
The energy of magnetisation of the core , whioh is , where , and therefore is ) , is not included in this conservation .
Its increase ' a change is \mdash ; ) , which is large compared with the quantities above .
The fraction of it , which is comparable with the other variacions , is compensated by absorption of the heat of ths system , and has , therefore , only the Iimited availability of thermal energy .
The remainder belongs intrinsically to the magnetisation , constituting mutual energy of contiguous molecules ; how much of it , as above expressed , is of thermal origin remains undetermined in the absence of calorimetric experiment .
8 .
The main points that it has been sought to )ring out are as follows :\mdash ; ( i ) In an electrodynamic field there exists the usual specification of electrokinetic energy , but also in the energy of magnetisation of magnetic material .
( ii ) This energy of magnetisation appears as made up of a part given by the dinary formula , which when paramagnetic is derived from thermal sources , and so in the absence of hysteresis has the limited mechanical availability of thermal energy ; together with a local part which is to some extent thus able , but is also in part permanent intrinsic energy of the molectlles , regarded temporarily as magnetic energy .
( iii ) The law of Curie , that the susceptibility of weak paramagnetic substances is inversely to the absolute temperature , is involved in these statements .
( iv ) The extent of the direct ( uon-thermal ) ilability of magnetism can be inferred only by empirical procedure , for example , in general features by inspection of the hysteresis diagram , as pointed out by Lord Rayleigh .

