An account of some Experiments relating to the Specific Gravity of Human Blood .
By James Jurin , M. D. and F. R. S. IT is well known from the Observations of Mr. Leeumenhock and others , that Human Blood consists of red globular Particles , swimming in a pellucid Lympba , or Serum .
Which two different Substances , tho ' of unequal Specific Gravities , yet so long as they continue to circulate in the Veins and Arteries , are prevented from separating by their Motion and Warmth .
But when the Blood comes to stagnate and cool in a Porringer , the globular Particles uniting together by their attractive Power , and sinking by their Weight , which is greater than that of the Serum , form the Coagulum , or Crassamentum , at the bottom of the Porringer , the Serum swimming above it .
Things always happen in this manner , when the Crassamentum is at liberty to subside : but it often falls out , that , either by its adhesion to the sides of the Vessel , or by the bubbles of Air , which the Blood gathers upon falling into the Porringer , and which stick to it 's Surface , the Crassamentum is kept from sinking , and seems to float upon the top of the Serum .
These Accidents seem to have given the first occasion to that Opinion , which , I think , has been generally entertained by those who have writ upon this Subject , namely , that the globular part of the Blood is specifically lighter than the Serum , in which it swims .
But that which has so fully established this persua~ sion , is the Authotity of the late excellent Mr. Boyle , who , among the many valuable and curious Experiments he has given us in his Natural History of Human Blood , has left the following ones upon this Subject .
The specific Gravity of Serum of Human Blood was found by weighing a piece of Sealing Wax first in Serum , and afterwards in Water , to be to the specific Gravity of Water , as 1024 to 1000 .
In a second Experiment , which for greater accuracy was made with an instrument contrived on purpose , the specific Gravity of Serum was found to be to that of Water , as 1194 , to 1000 .
In a third Experiment made by the same Instrument , and with Serum from the Blood of another Person , it 's specific Gravity appeared to be 1186 .
The Medium between these two last Experiments is 1190 , which has since been universally received for the specific Gravity of Serum of Human Blood , the first Experiment being declared by Mr. Boyle himself to be less exactly made than the other .
The specific Gravity of Human Blood was found by Mr. Boyle , to be to that of Water , as 1040 to 1000 ; though on account of difficulties by him mentioned , he was far from being satisfied with this Experiment , and recommended the thing to farther trials .
These Experiments however having hitherto past uncontroverted , and it appearing from them , that the specific Gravity of Serum was greater than that of Blood in the proportion of 1190 to 1040~ or of 8 to 7 nearly ; it was a necessary consequence of this , that the Blood Globules were specifically lighter than the Serum , and that in a very great degree , considering the small proportion~ that the bulk of the Crassamantum was found to bear to that of the Serum , from other Experiments .
From this it was not improbably conjectured , that these Globules were thin Vesicles filled with an Aereal substance : and this Opinion seemed to receive a great confirmation , upon it 's being observed , in viewing the Circulation by a Microscope , that a Blood Globule , in passing through a very narrow Vessel , would change its shape from a Globular to an Oval Form , and would recover it 's former Figure , as soon as it was got thro ' the narrow Passage ; which appearance seemed to be naturally accounted for from the Elasticity of the included Aura .
Upon this conjecture have been built a great many Solutions of the Phenomenon observable in the Animal Oeconomy , and the disorders of it ; particularly a late ingenious account of Muscular Motion .
It it not my business at present to examine any of these , nor is it my design to cast any reflection upon their Authors , who were led into this mistake by the natural consequence of a matter of Fact , for the truth of which they had so great an Authority , as that of the excellent Person above~mentioned .
But I hope , I shall easily be pardoned for enquiring into the soundness of the Foundation , when the Superstructure erected thereupon is so considerable ; and the following Experiments , however trivial in themselves , will not appear unworthy the consideration of the Royal Society , if it be found , that they may prevent us from running into Errors of the greatest consequence .
Exp. I. I have several times cut off a small part of the Crassamentum , when by its adhesion to the sides of the Porringer it has seemed to swim upon the Surface of the Serum , and have put it into another Vessel filled with Serum : upon which it has immediately sunk to the Bottom .
Exp. II .
When the Coagulum has been buoyd up in the Serum by the bubbles of Air adhering to its Surface , I have separated a small part of it , where those Bubbles have been thickest , and put it into a Glass of Serum , in which it has swom , as before .
Then setting the Glass upon the Air-Pump , those Bubbles burst after one another , as the Receiver was exhausting , and the Air being again let into the Receiver , the lump of Crassamentum sunk to the bottom of the Glass .
Exp. III .
I have often placed a drop of Serum upon a clean Glass before a Microscope , in which I had dissolved a very small quantity of Blood , and observed , that when the Glass was held in a perpendicular Posture , the Blood-Globules subsided to the bottom of the Drop ; and inverting the Glass , the Globules again descended thro ' the Serum to the Bottom .
I had the same success with a small quantity of Serum and Blood in a Capillary Tube .
And the same thing has been long since observed by the famous Mr. Leeuwenhoek .
These Experiments undeniably demonstrate , that the Crassamentum , or globular part of the Blood , is specifically heavier than the Serum ; and consequently it is by no means probable , that the Blood Globules are Vesicles filled with Air , or any other Fluid lighter than Serum .
And that they are not filled with any sort of Elastick Fluid , will appear from the following Experiment .
Exp. IV .
In a small quantity of Serum of Human Blood , I dissolved so much Blood , as that the Globules might not lye too thick together , to hinder their being seen distinctly .
Then having lodged a small drop of this Liquor on the inside of a thin Glass Tube , I fitted the Tube on to the Air-Pump , and placed a Microscope by it , so that I could see the Blood-Globules through the Tube .
This being done , I caus 'd the Tube to be exhausted , keeping my Eye upon the Globules all the time , in order to observe whether they dilated themselves , as the Air was withdrawn ; but could not perceive the least alteration , they appearing exactly of the same bigness in the Vacuum , as they had done before .
Whereas if they had been filled with an Elastick Fluid , they would either have burst , or have been dilated to at least 70 or 80 times their former Magnitude .
The Stop-cock being afterwards turned , and the Air suffered to re-enter the Tube , the Blood-Globules still retained the same bigness , as in Vacuo .
To this it will perhaps be objected , that a learned Member of this Society , in a Book lately published , has asserted the direct contrary to what I here affirm , and has assured us , that the Blood-Globules in an exhausted Receiver , instantly swell , and dilate themselves so , as to become incredibly large .
But as that Gentleman does not tell us , upon what Experiment this assertion is grounded , it may not be unreasonable to suppose , that he was misled by the common Hypothesis , which he there maintains , of the Blood-Globules being filled with Air , and by what he has heard or seen of the bubbles of Air , which arise from Blood in the Air Pump in the same manner as from other Liquors , and which not easily breaking out from so viscid a Fluid , occasion the appearance he mentions .
However this may be to prevent any dispute , and avoid the coming to Utri creditis , Quirites ?
I shall offer a Testimony , that every body will be satisfied with , namely that of the learned and ingenious Mr. Machine , Professor of Astronomy in Gresham College , and one of our Secretaries , who having honoured me with his Company at a repetition of this Experiment , in order to be witness to the Event , was sully satisfied upon repeated trials , that there was no perceivable difference between the Magnitude of the Blood Globules in the Air , and in Vacuo .
Upon this occasion the two first Experiments were likewise repeated in his presence , with the same Success , as above related .
Though what has been already said is a sufficient proof of the Opinion above-mention 'd , yet however to prevent the Objections , which may arise for want of Experiments made in the same manner with Mr. Boyle 's , as well as for the satisfaction of the Curious , who may be desirous to know the true Specific Gravities of Serum and Blood , I shall proceed to demonstrate the same thing by Hydrostatical Experiments .
Exp , V. November .
13 .
1713 .
Having suffered a quantity of my own Blood to stand about 24 Hours in the Porringer , and then drawing off the Serum carefully with a small Siphon into a convenient Glass , I found by the Hydrostatical Balance it 's Specific Gravity to be to that of Water , as 1029,8 to 1000 .
Exp. VI .
Feb. 21 .
1716-7 .
I examined the Serum from the Blood of another Person in the same manner and found it 's Specific Gravity to be 1028 , 6 .
Exp. VII .
VIII .
and IX .
April 8th , 1717 .
I obtained three several quantities of Serum from the Blood of different Persons .
The first of these was of a deep Colour , inclining something to red , and a little~Turbid .
It 's Specisick Gravity was 1029 , 7 .
The second was likewise a little Turbid , and of a pale whitish Colour .
The Specific Gravity of this was 1030 , 2 .
The third quantity of Serum was perfectly clear , and of the colour of Canary .
It 's Specific Gravity was found to be 1030 .
Though these five several Experiments were all carefully made , and with a Balance whose accuracy I was well assured of , yet sor farther Evidence , I thought it proper to make that which follows , after another manner .
Exp. X. Jan. 15th .
1718.9 .
I drew off all the Serum from five or six several Porringers , containing the Blood of different Persons .
This I found to be a little tinged with Blood , which was occasioned by my being obliged to draw it off pretty near to the bottom of the Porringers , in order to obtain a quantity sufficient for my purpose .
For this reason I suffered it to stand about two Days , in which time the Globular part of the Blood was entirely precipitated to the Bottom , and the Serum was become perfectly fine and transparent .
I then drew it off with a Siphon into a Glass Vial with a narrow Neck , which I filled to a certain mark made in the Neck for that purpose .
This done , I placed my Vial in a nice pair of Scales , in which I had a counterpoise for the weight of the Vial , and found that quantity of Serum to weigh 228414 Grains .
Then pouring out the Serum , I filled the Vial with common Water to the same mark , and found the weight of the Water to be 2219 Grains .
From which it follows , that the Specific Gravity of this Serum was 1029 , 4 .
Exp. XI .
July 14 .
1719 .
I procured a quantity of Blood taken from the temporal Artery , from which I drew off the Serum the next Day , and weighing it in the same manner found it 's Specific Gravity to be 1028 , 8 .
These Experiments agree so nearly together , that the little difference between them may very well be attributed to that which is between the Serum of different Persons ; or to the variations occasioned by heat and cold in the several Seasons of the Year , in which they were made .
So that from them we may safely determine the Specific Gravity of Serum of Human Blood at a Medium to be 1029 , 5 , or in a round number 1030 .
From which the greatest Variation in any of these Experiments is little more than one in 1000 ; whereas the difference between Mr. Boyle 's Experiments and mine amounts to 160 in 1000 .
Exp. XII .
April 6 .
1717 .
In order to find the Specific Gravity of Human Blood , which , by reason of it 's tenacity , and sudden alterations upon standing , cannot be determined by the Hydrostatical Balance ; I took a narrow-neck 'd Vial , and filled it to a Mark , with Blood poured immediately out of the Porringer , as soon as the Person was blooded .
This I weighed , as I had done the Serum before , and found it 's Specific Gravity to be 1051 .
Exp. XIII .
Aug. 5th .
1717 .
Having filled the same Vial with the Blood of another Person , running immediately out of the Vein through a Funnel , it 's Specific Gravity was determined at 1053 .
Suffering this to stand till it was cold , I found the Blood was sunk a small matter below the Mark in the neck of the Vial .
This being filled up with the Water , which in so small a quantity could make no sensible ble difference from Blood , I found the Specific Gravity of cold Blood to be 1055 .
Exp. XIV .
Aug. 6th .
1718 .
The last Experiment being repeated in the same manner as the Year before , the Specific Gravity of cold Blood was again found to 1055 .
Exp. XV .
July 14th .
1719 .
The Arterial Blood , from which the Serum was afterwards drawn off for the 11th Experiment , being weighed in the same manner , it 's Specific Gravity was 1052 , 5 .
As this Arterial Blood and it 's Serum , differ no more in Specific Gravity from Venal Blood and Serum , than the several Portions of these do from one another , it 's plain , that the difference in this respect between Arterial and Venal Blood is wholly inconsiderable .
The Animal Oeconomy indeed teaches us , that the Serous Liquor is perpetually drawing off from the Arterial Blood by the several Secretions , but as the quantity separated in one Circulation is very small , the Blood must arrive in the Veins nearly of the same density , as when it runs through the Arteries .
In the 13th Experiment we observed , that the Blood altered it 's Specific Gravity upon cooling from 1053 to 1055 ; from which we may infer , that if the Blood made use of in the 12th Experiment had been suffered to stand till it was cold , it 's Specific Gravity would have been 1053 ; wherefore , taking a Medium between the four last Experiments , we may allow the Specific Gravity of cold Human Blood to be 1054 .
The difference of 14 Parts in a 1000 , between this and the Specific Gravity determined by Mr. Boyle , is easily accounted for , if we consider , that that Gentleman did not make use of a Vessel with a narrow Neck , as plainly appears from the circumstances men~ tioned tioned in his Experiment ; and consequently a small error in the height of the Liquor would make a considerable alteration in the Specific Gravity .
Since therefore the Specific Gravity of Human Blood is 1054 , and that of its Serum 1030 , it is plain , that Blood is heavier than Serum by about one part in 43 .
From which it manifestly follows , that the Globular part of the Blood is specifically heavier than the Serum , since the Globular part being separated from the Blood leaves the remainder , or the Serum , specifically lighter than the entire Mass .
But in order to determine the exact Specific Gravity of the Blood Globules , it is first necessary to know the Proportion , which the whole quantity of the Crassamentum contained in Blood bears to the Serum .
To this end Mr. Boyle has given us two several Observations of the weights of the Crassamentum and Serum , after they have separated one from another in the Porringer .
But besides the difficulty of making this Experiment with any tolerable exactness , it is to be considered , that there is a great deal of Serum contained in the interstices of the Globules , that compose the Crassamentum .
This difficulty however is in some measure answered by two other Experiments , which Mr. Boyle made for this purpose , after the following manner .
He put a quantity of the Crassamentum already separated from the Serum , into an Alembick , and distilled off the remaining Serum to dryness , but without drawing off the Oil , or Volatile Salt ; after which he weighed the distilled Liquor , and the dry Mass left behind .
By comparing these Experiments with the two former , it will be found that the entire weighed of Serum contained in Blood is nearly 13/ 15 of the whole , and consequently consequently the weight of the dried Crassamentum is only two fisteenths of the Blood .
But for farther satisfaction , an Analysis was made at my desire with a large quantity of Blood , amounting to four Pounds fourteen Ounces , by that ingenious and skilful Chymist , Mr. John Brown .
From this was obtained , with a very gentle heat , two Pounds , fourteen Ounces , and six Drachms of a Phlegmatic Liquor , that had scarce any thing of the faetid Scent , which is usual in the distillation of Animal Substances ; and its Specific Gravity was nearly the same with that of common Water , being but 1000 , 8 .
This being mixed with a strong solution of Alum , scarce afforded any Coagulum ; but exhibited a considerable one upon mixture with a solution of Roman Vitriol .
The distillation being continued with the same Heat , we had seven Ounces more of Phlegm considerably impregnated with Volatile Salt , as was manifest from the Smell .
The Specific Gravity of this was 1007 , and having mixed it with Tinctura Martis optima , Solution of Alum , and of Roman Vitriol , a large Coagulum was precipitated .
In distilling these there was lost by Evaporation , two Ounces and two Drachms .
The third portion of Liquor , being raised with a stronger Fire , amounted to seven Ounces six Drachms .
This was reddish , and turbid , and so strongly charged with Volatile Salts , that it might very well deserve the name of Spirit .
Its Specific Gravity was 1080 , 1 .
Besides these we had seven Drachms of Volatile Salt , an ounce of Oil , and eight Ounces four Drachms of Caput Mortuum , which still retained some small remainder of the Oil , as was manifest from its taking Fire at the flame of a Candle .
In this latter part of the Operation was lost three Ounces , seven Drachms .
Upon making due allowance for the difference between the Specific Gravities of the three first Portions of Liquor and that of Serum , as likewise for what was lost in the two several parts of the Operation , which we may reasonably conclude to have been of a Specific Gravity nearly the same with that of the Liquor drawn off , it will be found , that the quantity of Serum contained in this Mass of Blood was about 15/ 17 of the whole Weight , and consequently that the quantity of Crassamentum was 2/ 17 of the same Weight .
If we calculate therefore upon this Supposition , that the weight of the Globular part of the Blood is 2/ 17 of the whole , we shall find the Specific Gravity of a Blood Globule to be to that of Water as 1277 to 1000 .
If we follow the proportion of 2/ 15 , which results from Mr. Boyle 's Experiments , the Specific Gravity of a Blood Globule will be 1242 .
But this computation is in all appearance a great deal too large ; for we cannot be assured , that our whole quantity of aqueous Liquor was raised from the Serum of the Blood .
On the contrary it is more than probable , that a considerable part of it was afforded by the Blood Globules themselves , especially in the latter part of the Operation , when their texture must of necessity have been broken and dissolved by the strong Fire that was made use of .
To prove this , we need only consider the condition of the dried Crassamentum .
after the Phlegm is drawn off , that being now a hard and brittle Substance : whereas the Globules in their natural State are soft and yielding .
For which reasons it may perhaps be more satisfactory , if we attempt to find the quantity of the Globular part of the Blood after another manner .
It appears therefore from Mr. Boyle 's Observations .
that the quantity of Serum , which may be poured off from the Crassamentum , is about one half of the whole Mass .
The remaining Crassamentum consists of the Blood Globules , and a quantity of Serum filling up the Interstices between them ; which , if the Globules keep their Spherical Form , may easily be found by the principles of common Geometry , to be nearly one half of the bulk of the Crassamentum : but if the Globules by their pressure against one another change their Figure , the quantity of Serum will be something less .
If this quantity of Serum lying between the Blood Globules be added to that poured off , it appears , that the Serum contained in Blood is about 3/ 4 of the whole bulk , and consequently that the Blood Globules make about 1/ 4 of the whole .
From which we shall find the Specific Gravity of the Blood Globules to be to that of Water as 1126 to 1000 .
If we suppose the Blood Globules to make 1/ 6 , 1/ 5 , 1/ 3 , or 1/ 2 of the whole bulk , their Specific Gravity will be respectively 1174 , 1150 , 1102 , or 1078 .
So that upon any of these Suppositions , the Specific Gravity of the Blood Globules will be considerably greater than that of the Serum , and consequently they cannot be supposed to be Vesicles filled with an Aereal Substance .
It will therefore perhaps be asked , What do they really consist of ?
In order to come to a Solution of this Question , it may be proper to take notice , That Blood is composed of Phlegm , Oil , Volatile and fixed Salts , and Earth .
For as to the Spirit , we look upon it with Mr. Boyle , to consist of the Phlegm and Volatile Salt united together .
That the Serum , upon a Chemical Analysis , exhibits a great deal of the first of these , and the others in a very small quantity .
That on the contrary the Crassamentum yields much less Phlegm , but the other Principles much more copiously than the Serum .
From which Data , I think , we may safely conclude , that the Crassamentum , or Globular part of the Blood , consists of some Phlegm united with the Oil and Salts , and a small quantity of Earth But what is the exact proportion of these several Principles to one another ; what alterations are produced in the Body by a change of this proportion ; how , and in what part these Globules are formed ; by what means they preserve their Figure , without dissolving in the Serum , or uniting with one another ; what variations are made in their Specific Gravities by Heat and Cold ; and what are the effects of those Variations , are Questions not very easy to be solved , and yet of so much importance to the Animal Oeconomy , that it were greatly to be wished , we had a number of Data sufficient to determine them .
P. S. Since this Paper was sent to the Press , I made the following Experiments , which serving to confirm the Method last made use of , for finding the Specific Gravity of the Blood Globules , it may not be improper to relate them .
August 6 .
1719 .
I took a lump of the Crassamentum , and washed it gently in fair Water , to free it from the loose Globules , which precipitating out of the Serum , after the Coagulum is formed , do not unite into one Body with it .
This done , I laid it on a spungy brown Paper , in order to drain off the superfluous Moisture .
After which , weighing it first in Air , and then in Water , I found its Specific Gravity to be 1083 1/ 2 .
Another lump of the same Crassamentum being weighed in the same manner , its Specific Gravity was 1082 9 .
Sept. 18 .
1719 .
I found the Specifik Gravity of another piece of Crassamenium to be 1082.1 .
A second piece from the Blood of a different Person gave me 1086,1 .
A third from the same Person gave 1086,6 .
From this it follows that the Specific Gravity of the Blood Globules is at least 1084 , which is the Medium between these five Experiments .
But if we allow one half of the bulk of the Crassamentum to consist of Serum , filling up the Spaces between the Blood Globules , we shall find their Specific Gravity to be 1138 .
From this we must make a small abatement , because some part of the Serum must have been squees 'd out from between the Globules , by their yielding to one anothers Pressure , when the lump of Crassamentum lay upon the Paper : and this will reduce their Specific Gravity sufficiently near to 1126 , as we had before

