at the last Meeting , and entitled , " Researches tending to prove the Non-vascularity of certain Animal Tissues , and to demonstrate the peculiar uniform mode of their Organization and Nutrition .
" By Joseph Toynbee , Esq. Communicated by Sir Benjamin C. Brodie , Bart. , F.R.S. In the introduction to this paper , the author first speaks of the process of nutrition in the animal tissues which are pervaded by ramifications of blood-vessels ; pointing out the circumstance , that even in them there is a considerable extent of tissue which is nourished without being in contact with blood-vessels .
The knowledge of this fact leads us to the study of the process of nutrition in the non-vascular tissues ; which tissues he divides into the three following classes ; namely , first , those comprehending articular cartilage , and the cartilage of the different classes of fibro-cartilage .
Under the second head he comprises the cornea , the crystalline lens , and the vitreous humour ; and , under the third , he arranges the epidermoid appendages ; viz. the epithelium , the epidermis , nails and claws , hoofs , hair and bristles , feathers , horn and teeth .
The author then proceeds to show that the due action of the organs , into the composition of which these tissues enter , is incompatible with their vascularity .
In proof of the non-existence of blood-vessels in these tissues , he states that he has demonstrated , by means of injections , that the arteries , which previous anatomists had supposed to penetrate into their substance , either as serous vessels , or as red-blood vessels too minute for injection , actually terminate in veins before reaching them ; he also shows that around these nonvascular tissues there are numerous vascular convolutions , large dilatations and intricate plexuses of blood-vessels , the object of which he believes to be to arrest the progress of the blood , and to allow a large quantity of it to circulate slowly around these tissues , so that its nutrient liquor may penetrate into and be diffused through them .
The author states that all the non-vascular tissues have an analo ?
gous structure , and that they are composed of corpuscles , to which he is induced to ascribe the performance of the very important functions in the process of their nutrition , of circulating throughout , and perhaps of changing the nature of the nutrient fluid which is brought by blood-vessels to their circumference .
The author then brings forward facts in proof of the active and vital properties of these cor ?
puscles , and concludes his Introduction by stating , that it appears to him , that the only difference in the mode of nutrition between the vascular and the non-vascular tissues is , that in the former , the fluid which nourishes them is derived from the blood that circulates throughout the capillaries contained in their substance ; whilst , in the latter , the nutrient fluid exudes into them from the large and dilated vessels that are distributed around them : and that in both classes , the particles of which the tissues are composed derive from this fluid the elements which nourish them .
The author then enters on an examination of the structure and mode of nutrition of the several tissues of each of these three classes .
In considering the first class , he commences with articular cartilage , which he describes at great length in the various stages of its developement , and at the different periods of life .
He gives in detail the account of numerous dissections of the ovum and foetus illustrating the first stage , during which he shows that no blood-vessels enter into the substance of any of the textures composing a joint ; but that the changes its component parts undergo , are effected by the nutrient fluid from the large blood-vessels , by which , at this stage , each articulation is surrounded .
In the second stage of the develope ?
meant of articular cartilage , the author shows , by numerous dissec ?
tions , the process by which the blood-vessels are extended into the substance of the epiphysal cartilage , and converge towards the at ?
tached surface of articular cartilage , and how , at the same time , blood-vessels are equally prolonged over a certain portion of its free surface .
He shows that none of these blood-vessels enter the substance of the articular cartilage , and he points out that in them the arteries become continuous with the veins ; first , by their terminating in a single vessel , from which the veins arise ; secondly , by their forming large dilatations from which the veins originate ; and , lastly , they become directly continuous with the veins in the formation of loops of various characters .
In the third stage , that which is exhi ?
bited in adult life , the epiphysal cartilage is converted into osseous cancelli .
These contain large blood-vessels , which are separated from the articular cartilage by a layer of bone composed of corpus ?
cles , and the author believes that the principal source of nutrition to this tissue is the nutrient fluid which exudes into it from these vessels , by passing through the articular lamella just noticed .
The free surface of adult articular cartilage is nourished by vessels which pass to a slight extent over it .
The author points out the presence of fine tubes which pervade the attached portion of adult articular cartilage , to which he ascribes the function of transmitting through its substance the nutritive fluid derived from the vessels of the can ?
celli .
He also advances the opinion that the articular cartilage becomes thinner during the whole of life , by being gradually converted into bone .
Fibro-cartilage constitutes the second tissue of the first class .
The author first enters upon an examination of its structure ; and in order to arrive at some definite conclusions on this subject , whereon anatomists of all ages have so much differed , he made numerous dissections of fibro-cartilages in the different classes of animals at various periods of their developement , the results of which he details .
He arrives at the conclusion that this tissue is composed of carti ?
laginous corpuscles and of fibres ; the latter preponderating in adult life , the former in infancy ; and that during life the corpuscles are gradunlly converted into fibres .
He enters at length into the question of the vascularity of these cartilages ; and from a careful study of many injected specimens of man and animals at various periods of their developement , the particular results of which he relates , he believes that blood-vessels are contained only in their fibrous portion , and have the function of nourishing that which is cartilaginous , and which , on account of its being subject to compression and concussion , does not contain any .
Among the second class of extra-vascular tissues , the cornea is first treated of ; and its structure is described as being very lax , and as containing corpuscles only in a small quantity .
The opinions in favour of its vascularity are combated ; and it is shown that the blood-vessels which converge to its attached margin , and which are the principal source of the fluid that nourishes it , are large and nu ?
merous , and that at the circumference of this tissue the arteries , without any diminution of their calibre , return in their course , and become continuous with the veins .
A second set of vessels , devoted to the nutrition of the cornea , is also described ; they extend to a short distance over the surface of the tissue , but do not penetrate into its substance .
The crystalline lens is described as being composed of corpuscles , of which the radiating fibres are constituted .
The arteria centralis retinse is described as ramifying over the posterior surface of the capsule , where it forms large branches ; these pass round the cir ?
cumference of the lens , and reach its anterior surface , at the peri ?
phery of which they become straight : the arteries terminate in loops frequently dilated , and become continuous with the veins .
With respect to the vascularity of the vitreous humour , the author states that although many anatomists have , in general terms , represented the arteria centralis rethrde as giving off , in its course through this organ , minute branches into its substance , still those who have paid especial attention to the subject , have not been able to find such vessels .
He believes that the nutrition of this structure is accomplished by the fluid brought to its surface by the ciliary processes of the choroid , which fluid is diffused with facility through its entire substance by means of the corpuscles of which its membrane is composed , assisted by the semifluid character of the humour .
The third class of extra-vascular tissues comprehends the epidermoid appendages .
The author describes them all as composed of corpuscles , which are round and soft where they are in contact with the vascular chorion , compressed and flattened where they are farther removed from it .
He points out , in the substance of the hoof of the Horse , the existence of fine canals , which he supposes to conduct fluid through its mass ; and he states that the perspiratory ducts of the human subject possess a structure analogous to the spiral vessels of plants .
The author describes each of the tissues of this class at length , and shows that the various modifications presented by the vascular system with which each is in contact , have the sole object of enabling a large quantity of blood to approach and circulate slowly around them .
He also points out , in connexion with this subject , the remarkable vital properties which are possessed by these non-vascular tissues .
In concluding this paper , the author states that his object has been to establish as a law in animal physiology , that tissues are capable of being nourished , and of increasing in size , without the presence of blood-vessels within their substance .
He shows the analogy which is presented between the extra-vascular animal and the extravascular vegetable tissues .
He expresses a hope that the application to surgery of the above law , with reference to the prolongation of blood-vessels into the extra-vascular tissues during disease , and to pathology in the investigation of the nature of morbid structures , particularly of those classes which contain no blood-vessels , will be not devoid of interest , and will be productive of some advantage .

