286 Thermal Conductivities of Single and Mixed , cfc .
spores in cultures , and Basidiomycetes generally have rarely been made to do so .
The actions of the mycelium on the wood of JEsculus , , Quercus , and Salix are also examined , and this is , so far as known , the first time this has been done with pure cultures .
Anatomical and histological details , with figures , are given in the complete paper .
" On the Thermal Conductivities of Single and Mixed Solids and Liquids , and their Variation with Temperature .
" By Charles H. Lees , D.Sc .
, Assistant Lecturer in Physics m the Owens College .
Communicated by Professor Schuster , F.R.S. Received November 30 , \#151 ; Read December 16 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) These experiments were undertaken with a view to determining the effect of temperature on thermal conductivities , and the relation between the conductivity of a mixture and the conductivities of its constituents .
The apparatus consisted of a number of flat circular copper discs , into each of which a thermo-junction was soldered .
The substances to be experimented on were placed between these discs , heat was supplied to one of the discs at a measured rate , by passing an electric current through a coil in contact with it , and the differences of temperature between the discs were measured by balancing the thermo-electromotive forces produced , against the fall of potential down a wire .
About thirty solids , liquids , substances near their melting points , and mixtures of liquids , were tested between temperatures of 15 ' and 50 ' 0 .
, and the following statements embody the results :\#151 ; 1 .
Solids not very good conductors of heat in general decrease in conductivity with increase of temperature in the neighbourhood of 40 ' C. Glass is an exception to this rule .
2 .
Liquids follow the same law in the neighbourhood of 30 ' C. 3 .
The conductivity of a substance does not invariably change abruptly at the melting point .
4 .
The thermal conductivity of a mixture lies between the conductivities of its constituents , but is not a linear function of its composition .
5 .
Mixtures of liquids decrease in conductivity with increase o temperature in the neighbourhood of 80 ' C. , at about the same rate as their constituents .

