II .
" On the Action of Aqueous Vapour in disturbing the Atmosphere .
" By THOMAS HOPKINs , Esq. Communicated by W. FAIRBAIRN , Esq. , F.R.S. Received January 2 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper it was maintained that the great disturber of the equilibrium of atmospheric pressure is the aqueous vapour which is diffused through the gases .
These gases , when ascending , cool ( say 5 ?
) through expansion by diminution of incumbent pressure , whilst the vapour that is within them cools only 1 ?
; and a consequence is , that when a mixed mass ascends , the vapour is condensed by the cold of the gases .
It is well known that condensation of vapour gives out much heat , and this heat warms and expands the gases when they are forced to ascend , taking vapour with them ; and the process being repeated and continued , an ascending current is produced in the atmosphere , cloud is formed , the barometer sinks , rain falls , and winds blow towards the part .
This was shown to take place in all latitudes , producing disturbances great in proportion to the amount of vapour condensed .
In tropical regions , where the aqueous material is abundant , the disturbances are great , but take place principally in the higher regions of the air .
The diminution of atmospheric pressure within the tropics at the surface of the earth , as measured by the barometer , extends over a large surface , but is not great in any one place .
In cooler latitudes condensation takes place nearer to the surface of the globe , and then reduction of pressure is confined to a smaller area ; but in parts on the surface within that area the reduction is great , because the lower and therefore heavier gases have been warmed and expanded ; hence the falls of the barometer in certain cool localities are the greatest .
In very cold and dry regions , as a consequence of there being but little vapour in the air to be condensed , the barometer sinks only a little , and that sinking is generally confined to a small area .
In accordance with this view , it was shown that , in certain places , where much continuous rain falls , the barometer has a low average ; and towards these areas winds blow from distant parts , as in the great tradeand other winds .
Sea-breezes were also shown to be consequences of the condensation of vapour , which had been produced by the morning sun ascending to sufficient elevations ; whilst the land-winds at night are attributable to the cooling of those elevated parts by evaporation during the absence of the sun .
Various objections that had been made to this theory of atmospheric disturbances were noticed by the author of the paper , which , though admitted to be plausible , were stated to be invalid , whilst the most important meteorological phenomena were asserted to be in accordance with it .

