290 Messrs. J. G. M'Kendriek J. Dewar on Liversidge ( A. ) The Bingera Diamond-field .
8vo .
Sydney 1873 .
Not* on a new Mineral from New Caledonia .
8vo .
London 1874 .
Deniliquin or Bazatta Meteorite .
8vo .
1873 .
The Author Secchi ( A. ) , For .
Mem. R.S. Studi Fisici sulle Comet del 1874 .
Stud sulle Comet di Tempel 2 " e Coggia 3a nel 1874 .
4to .
Roma 1874-75 The Author Woodward ( H. ) , F.R.S. Address to the Geologists ' Association .
8vo London 1874 .
The Author \lt ; c On the Physiological Action of the Chinoline and Pyridim Bases .
" By John Gr .
M'Kendrick and James Dewar Edinburgh .
Communicated by J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. F.R.S. Received June 11 , 1874* .
It is well known that when either quinine , cinchonine , or strychnine is distilled with caustic potash , each of these substances yield two homologous series of bases , named the pyridine and chinoline series It has also been shown by Anderson and Greville " Williams that bases isomeric with these are obtained by the destructive distillation of coal or from Dippel 's oil .
Greville Williams has also pointed out that chinoline obtained from coal-tar differs in some respects from that got from cinchonine .
It would be a subject of physiological interest to ascertain ( 1 ) the physiological action of the various members of the series ; ( 2 ) whether there was any difference in this respect between the members of the series obtained from cinchonine and those got from tar ; and ( 3 ) whether , and if so , how , both as regards extent and character , the physiological action of these bases differed from that of the original alkaloidal bodies .
We have for some time been engaged in this research ; and the results we now beg leave to lay before the Society .
I. Method o the Research .
The bases in both series are difficult to separate from each other ; but this has been done , as far as possible , by repeated fractional distillation .
substance first examined was chinoline obtained from cinchonine .
It w\#187 ; s employed both as sulphate and hydrochlorate , dissolved in water , and introduced by subcutaneous injection into the animal .
The strength of the \amp ; mU ' tion employed in this and in all other instances was one part of the base to twenty parts of water .
Its physiological action was tested on frogs , * Head June 18 , 1874 .
See 'Proceedings , ' vol. xxii .
p. 432 .
the Action of the Chiholine and Pyridine Bases .
291 ice , rabbits , guineapigs , cats , dogs , and man ; but .
as the effects were iind to be similar in all of these instances , the majority of the observa-1\gt ; ns were made on rabbits .
After having noted the effects of chinoline , 15 next studied , by the same method , the action of hydrochlorates of the Ises distilling off at higher temperatures , including such bases as lepidine , spoline , tetrahiroline , \amp ; c. We then examined the pyridine series , begin-ag with pyridine itself , and passing upwards to bases obtained at still gher boiling-points , such as picoline , lutidine , \amp ; c. Lastly , the investi-ition was directed to the action of condensed bases , such as dipyridine , rapicoline , \amp ; c. ; and the effects of these substances were compared with ose produced by the members of the chinoline series and among them-lves .
So far as we could observe , there was no difference as regards lysiological action between bases obtained from cinchonine and others \gt ; t from tar .
II .
Physiological Effects of Hydbochlokate of Chinoline ( C9H7NHC1 ) .
The administration , by subcutaneous injection , of 1| grain for every pound of weight into a healthy rabbit produced the following effects:_In \gt ; ur or five minutes the animal appeared to become drowsy , was unwilling \gt ; move ; but when pushed , locomotion was not affected .
Both the pul-itions of the heart and the respiratory movements were slightly increased i frequency at this stage .
The drowsiness increased , and in a few dnutes more the animal sank on its abdomen and remained motionless , ith the eyes widely opened .
It was now gently turned over on its ack or side , and it remained in that unnatural position .
Still later , iiere was complete anaesthesia .
At no period was there any hyperesthesia .
Reflex functions were also in abeyance so far that they old not be excited by pinching or pricking , but irritation by a 'aradic current caused feeble movements .
The animal appeared to be nconscious of loud sounds .
The pupil was normal as regards size , nd it contracted readily when exposed to a strong light .
The reflex aovements of the eyelid were not lost until the animal was in a state of eep stupor from an overdose .
The respirations were now much fewer in lumber , and of less depth than normal .
The heart still acted vigorously , \gt ; ut the pulsations were decreased in number by about one sixth .
After emaining motionless in that condition for a period of three or perhaps our hours , the rabbit slowly recovered , raised its head from the table , \gt ; egan to move about , and frequently ate food placed before it .
It .ecovered completely from the dose above indicated , without any bad symptom supervening .
A dose of 2 or 2| grains per pound weight was lsually lethal .
If , at the end of three hours , the animal showed no indications towards recovery , it apparently sank in a state of profound insensibility , the heart-pulsations became feebler , and the respirations more and more shallow , until they were barely perceptible .
Death ensued Messrs. J. G. M'Kendrick and J , Dewar on without convulsions .
The temperature of the body fell 6 ' to 8 ' belo\ the normal .
An examination of the body , made immediately after death showed the following appearances :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The vessels on the surface o the brain were somewhat congested ; the substance of the brain itself di\lt ; not exhibit any increase of vascularity ; ( 2 ) the lungs were congested more especially along the borders ; ( 3 ) the heart was in a state of diastol and full of dark-coloured blood ; ( 4 ) the veins in the mesentery and th larger vessels on the intestine were much congested ; ( 5 ) the liver show * numerous minute ring-like congestions , indicating congestion of the porta system ; ( 6 ) the kidneys and other abdominal and pelvic viscera were normal in appearance ; and ( 7 ) the urine in the bladder contained m albumen or sugar .
From these symptoms and post mortem appearances , and from specia methods of experiment , we draw the following conclusions regarding th action of hydrochlorate of chinoline .
1 .
Action on the Nervous System.\#151 ; The action is chiefly , if not altoge there , on the nerve-centres , and not on the nerves or on their periphera terminations .
When the sciatic nerve is irritated by very feeble Faradi currents , it manifests no diminution of sensibility , and the muscles sup plied by the nerve contract with apparently their normal energy .
Th nerves of a frog killed by hydrochlorate of chinoline show all the pro perties of nerves obtained from a non-poisoned aniihal .
The sympatheti system of nerves is not usually affected to any appreciable extent , as evi denced by the normal condition of the pupil , the absence of dilatation o the vessels in the ear ( consequent on paralysis of the vaso-motor system ) and by the fact that , in an animal deeply under the influence of chinoline the phenomena following section and irritation of the sympathetic in thi neck of a rabbit take place to the same extent and in the same order a : in a non-poisoned animal .
In several instances we have observed dila tation of the vessels of the ear and slight contraction of the pupil ; bul these , from their rare occurrence , appear to be exceptional .
No change was observed in the action of the pneumogastric nerve , so far as coulc be ascertained by the effect on the heart produced by Faradic irritatior of that nerve .
We have observed no symptoms leading us to suspec irritation , or paralysis , of the centres in the cerebellum , or in the ganglii at the base of the brain ; but in lethal doses the respiratory centres u the medulla oblongata become gradually affected , as shown by the diminution of the respiratory movements both in force and frequency .
The motor columns of the spinal cord do not lose their power of conductioi from the encephalon to various parts of the body , because , on irritating with a weak Faradic current the end of the cord in a rabbit decapitate !
while deeply under the influence of the substance , powerful convulsive movements ensued .
The reflex activity of the cord is much weakened inasmuch as it cannot be excited by pinching or pricking ; but it is no ' entirely lost , because it may be excited by Faradic stimulation ; and it ha* the Action of the Chinoline and Pyridine .
293 ml observed in several experiments that strychnine , subcutaneously in-od into a rabbit prostrate with hydrochlorate of chinoline , is followed \lt ; vts usual physiological effects .
It appears , therefore , that the subtree acts chiefly on the sensory and motor centres in the cerebral if ispheres , weakening or removing all consciousness of external im-nisions and also all voluntary acts .
I Action on the Respiratory and Circulatory Systems.\#151 ; In the first in-tice the action of the heart and the respiratory movements are weased , but afterwards they are much diminished , and death appears o the result of these processes becoming weaker and weaker , until -ty cease altogether .
The increased action observed , at first , is probably 1 to the excitement of the animal consequent on the injection of fluid 'Meath the skin .
So soon as the substance acts through the blood on \#166 ; I nerve-centres , the action of both systems is weakened .
We regard weakening as due to an action on an encephalic centre , for the two bowing reasons:\#151 ; first , because irritation of the sympathetic and pmmogastric nerves in the neck of a rabbit , completely under the buence of hydrochlorate of chinoline , produces acceleration and rardation of the heart 's action respectively , as occurs in a healthy amal ; and secondly , when the heart of a frog was treated , according t Coats 's method , with serum containing 3 per cent , of chinoline , no ect was observed .
These experiments seem to indicate clearly that the 8)stance acts on the encephalic centres , and through them on the heart fld respiratory organs .
The action of the heart finally ceases , probably l its textures being supplied with only venous blood .
3 .
Action in lowering the Temperature of the It was found , in fee instances in which minute differences of temperature were observed i intervals of one minute , during a period of one hour before and one ui after the subcutaneous injection of hydrochlorate of chinoline , that a substance produced a gradual and uniform fall of temperature to the \lt ; tent of from six to eight degrees below the normal .
In all of these stances the animal recovered from the effects , and , during recovery , the tnperature slowly rose to its normal limit .
This action we regard as of nsiderable importance .
It is probably to be explained by interference ith nutritional changes between the blood and the tissues , and also by \gt ; \#169 ; diminution , both in frequency and depth , of the respiratory ovements .
III .
Action op Hydrochlorates op the Higher Bases op the Chinoline Series .
1 .
Bases obtained by distillation between 200 ' and 280 ' C. , \#166 ; # " -i .
Lepidine 4fc .
, C10H9H .
These bases produced the same general action as chinoline , with the xceptions ( T ) : that the dose required to produce a state of complete upor was somewhat smaller than in the case of chinoline , and ( 2 ) that , 294 Messrs. J. G. MfKendrick and J. Dewar on after a state of stupor had been produced , the animal was less likely tc recover , while it was observed that , frequently , before death , there wen jactations of one or other of the limbs and convulsive twitehings about the mouth .
2 .
Bases obtained by distillation between 280 ' and 300 ' C. Disjpoline Sfc .
, Cu Hn N. It was now observed that the symptoms following subcutaneous injection were considerably different from those of chinoline .
One grain foi each pound weight of the rabbit produced , in'about five minutes , apparent uneasiness , side to side movements of the head , with a tendency occasionally to move backwards .
This condition continued for three or four minutes , when the animal lay fiat on its abdomen with its legs outspread .
It was not in a state of complete unconsciousness .
There was no anaesthesia .
In several instances there were compulsive twitchings of the limbs , grinding of the teeth , and a slight tendency to opisthotonos .
The lethal dose was smaller than in the case of chinoline .
The effects were a longer time in appearing , and they had more of a spinal than of a cerebral character .
3 .
Bases obtained by distillation above 300 ' C. Tetrdhiroline $c .
} C12 H,3 N. These were found to be still more active .
A dose of f of a grain per pound weight produced , in eight or ten minutes after it had been subcutaneously injected , violent convulsions , and was almost invariably fatal .
During the first five minutes after the introduction of the poison , no marked symptoms were noticed .
At the end of this time , the animal became uneasy , ran forwards in an excited manner , and then fell over on its side .
The convulsions which ensued were similar to those produced by the action of large doses of quinine or cinchonine .
They did not resemble the tetanic spasms produced by strychnia , as they were not excited by peripheral irritations ; but they had an epileptiform character , consisting of irregular jactations of the limbs , crunching of the teeth , movements of the eyeballs , pawing movements of the fore limbs , \amp ; e. The animal seemed to be semiconscious throughout .
It was still susceptible to pain .
A consideration of the effects just described indicates that , as we ascend from the lower to the higher members of the chinoline series of bases , the physiological action becomes modified as follows:-\#151 ; 1 .
The action on the sensory centres of the encephalon becomes less marked , until in the highest group there is no unconsciousness , but only slight stupor .
2 .
The actions of the motor centres of the encephalon and spinal cord are not affected in the lowest group , but become gradually more a\#174 ; the Action of the Chinoline and Pyridine Bases .
295 .we involved as we proceed upwards , until , in the highest group , we tae substances producing powerful convulsions , i. The lethal dose is smaller for the higher than for the lower mem-of the series .
IY .
Action of Hydrochlorates of the Bases in the Pyridine Series .
Che physiological action of the bases of the pyridine series was next g .mined in the following order :\#151 ; 1 .
Pyridine , C6H5N .
the hydrochlorate of this base produced no effects , even in doses of ( grains per pound weight , other than slight excitement .and acceleration the pulse and of the respiratory movements .
The animal , judging fm its gait and demeanour , appeared to be in a state analogous to in-tdcation .
It recovered without any bad effects .
2.Picoline , C6 H7 N , The substance was employed both in the form of the base dissolved in -iter and as a hydrochlorate .
The salt was found to be more active ysiologically than the base , but the kind of action was the same .
The -tieral effect was to produce , with a dose of 3 grains per pound weight , i the first place , general excitement and a full bounding pulse .
This ite was followed by a drowsy condition , which did not pass , with even dose of 6 grains per pound weight , into complete stupor .
The rabbit .aid always be readily aroused .
While in the drowsy condition , the ilse fell in frequency and volume , and the respirations became feebler* .
3 .
Lutidine , C7H9 N. The effects were similar to those produced by picoline , only more arked .
A dose of 3 grains per pound weight produced deep stupor , om which the animal could not be aroused .
It remained in this con-tion for a period of from , , two to three hours .
The pulsations of the sart were much reduced in volume , but only slightly in frequency ; but was clearly observable that the respirations were much less deep than in le natural condition , and they were reduced in frequency by about one lird .
In a case of death from a lethal dose of 4 grains per pound , 3ere was venous congestion in all parts of the body , but the heart was all feebly pulsating .
It was observed that the blood had a peculiar dark locolate-brown appearance .
Examined with the spectroscope , it showed ie two bands of oxyhsemoglobin .
* The results we have obtained differ considerably from those described by H. Void nd H. Eulenberg in their paper on the " Physiological Action of Tobacco when used s a Narcotic , with especial reference to the Constituents of Tobacco-Smoke , re iv 'barm .
[ 2 ] cxlvii .
130-166 .
Messrs. J. G. McKendrick and J. Dewar on 4 .
Collidine , C8 Hue N. Collidine was still more active in its effects .
With a dose of 1| grain per pound weight , the animal rapidly sank into a state of profound stupor , from which it could not be aroused .
Anaesthesia was complete .
The pulsations of the heart and the respirations became more and more feeble , until death ensued in about 20 minutes after the dose , apparently in consequence of failure of respiration .
There were no twitehings or convulsions .
The subcutaneous injection into a rabbit of l-80th of a grain of strychnine was followed by the usual physiological effects of that substance .
5 .
The Higher Pyridine Bases obtained by distillation above 200 ' C. , such as Parvoline , C9 H13 N , \amp ; c. These were found to be still more active ; but the effects were of the same nature as those just described .
The lethal dose was found to be about f- of a grain per pound weight .
In two or three minutes the animal sank on its abdomen ; when pushed could move with difficulty ; respirations were rapid and irregular .
It then lay on its side , and in four or five minutes died , apparently in an asphyxiated condition .
There were no convulsive spasms or twitchings .
This substance was lethal in much smaller doses than the lower bases of the chiiioline series .
The pyridine series of compounds thus showed a gradual increase in activity of physiological action .
The lowest of the series produced merely excitement from irritation of the encephalic nervous centres , while the highest produced paralysis of these nervous centres .
There was no irritation of the spinal cord causing ] increased reflex activity .
Death ensued from gradual failure of the respiratory movements leading to asphyxia .
The action of the higher pyridines was thus somewhat analogous to the lowest of the chinoline series , with this exception , that the pyridine compounds tended to cause death by asphyxia .
It is to be noted also that the higher bases of the pyridine series were lethal in somewhat less than one half of the dose required to destroy life by the lower members of the chinoline series .
Y. Action of Hydbochlobates op the condensed Bases op the Pybidine Sebies .
Considering the close analogy in chemical composition between the polymeric bases of pyridine and certain natural bases , such as nicotine , it became of importance to examine the physiological action of these bases , which were prepared , according to Anderson 's method , by the action of sodium on pyridine , picoline , \amp ; c. The following were the effects observed after the subcutaneous injection of 1 grain per pound weight into a rabbit:\#151 ; The animal remained quiet for a period varying from four to eight minutes , when it suddenly appeared uneasy , ran forwards as on tiptoe , with the back arched , and , falling on its side , became the Action of the Chinoline and Pyridine Bases .
297 iolently convulsed .
The convulsions continued , almost without intermis-ion , for three or four minutes , when death ensued .
So far as could be bserved , consciousness was not lost until immediately before death .
The haracter of the convulsions resembled that of those produced by cinchonine r quinine , except that the tendency to backward movements , with the ore legs extended , was not so marked ; they also resembled those pro-need by salts of the higher members of the chinoline series , but they fere more severe than in the latter .
The hydrochlorates of two con- ; ensed bases of this kind were employed\#151 ; the first made from pyridine , nd the other from picoline .
The formulae for these are:\#151 ; hydrochlorate f dipyridine , C10 H10 N2 2HC1 ; and hydrochlorate of dipicoline , or para-icoline , C12 Hue N2 2HC1 .
The latter was found to be the more active f the two , but the actions were identical in character .
VI .
General Conclusions .
1 .
There is a marked gradation in the extent of physiological action of he members of the pyridine series of bases , but it remains of the same cind .
The lethal dose , however , becomes reduced as we rise from the ower to the higher .
2 .
The higher members of the pyridine series resemble , in physiological tetion , the lower members of the chinoline series , except ( 1 ) that the for-ner are more liable to cause death by asphyxia , and ( 2 ) that the lethal lose of the pyridines is less than one half that of the chinolines .
3 .
In proceeding from the lower to the higher members of the chino-ine series , the physiological action changes in character , inasmuch as the ower members appear to act chiefly on the sensory centres of the ence-)halon and the reflex centres of the spinal cord , destroying the power of voluntary or reflex movement ; while the higher act less on these centres , md chiefly on the motor centres , first as irritants , causing violent concisions , and afterwards producing complete paralysis .
At the same ime , while the reflex activity of the centres in the spinal cord appears to )e so far inactive as not to be excited by pinching or pricking , it may be cadily roused to action by strychnine .
4 .
On comparing the action of such bases as C9 H7 N ( chinoline ) with C9 H13 N ( parvoline ) , or C8 Hue N ( collidine ) with C8 H16 N ( conia from lemlock ) , or Ci0 H10 N2 ( dipyridine ) with C"HuNa ( nicotine from to-oacco ) , it is to be observed that , apart from differences in chemical structure , the physiological activity of the substance is greater in those bases containing the larger amount of hydrogen .
5 .
Those artificial bases which approximately approach the percentage composition of natural bases are much weaker physiologically , so far as can be estimated by amount of dose , than the natural bases j but the kind of action is the same in both cases .
6 .
When the bases of the pyridine series are doubled by condensation , producing dipyridine , parapicoline , \amp ; c. , they not only become more VOL. xxiii .
^ a List of Candidates .
pyjar ^ active physiologically , but the action differs in kind from that of th\lt ; simple bases , and resembles the action of natural bases or alkaloid* having an approximately similar chemical composition .
7 .
All the substances examined in this research are remarkable for no possessing any specific paralytic action on the heart likely to caust syncope ; but they destroy life , in lethal doses , either by exhaustive con vulsions or by gradual paralysis of the centres of respiration , thus cause ing asphyxia . .
8 .
There is no immediate action on the sympathetic system of nerves although there is probably a secondary action , because , after large doses the vaso-motor centre , in common with other centres , becomes involved .
9 .
There is no appreciable difference between the physiological actioi of the bases obtained from cinchona and those derived from tar .
The physiological action of the substitution derivatives of these sub stances will be related in a further communication .
March 4 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered fo : them .
The Right Hon. Sir Stafford H.Northcote was admitted into the Society In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates fo election into the Society were read as follows William deWiveleslie Abney , Capt. R.E , William Archer , M.R.I.A. Edward Middleton Barry , R.A. James Risdon Bennett , M.D. Dietrich Brandis , Ph. D. Charles Orde Browne , Capt. R.A. George Buchanan , M.D. Walter Lawry Buller , Sc. D. James Caird , C.B. John Casey , LL. D. William Chimmo , Capt. R.N. Latimer Clark , E.R.A.S. Cuthbert Collingwood , M.A. George Critchett , E.R.C.S. Herbert Davies , M.D. August Dupre , Ph. D. Joseph Eayrer , M.D. Augustus H. Lane Eox , Colonel* Erancis Stephen Bennet Erangoi de Chaumont , M.D. Alfred Henry Garrod , B.A. James Geikie , E.R.S , E. James Whitbread Lee Glaisher M.A. Thomas Minchin Goodeve , M*A* Charles Alexander Gordon , M*D* C.B. 1 Robert Baldwin Hayward , M.A. John Baboneau NickterUen Men nessey , E.R.A.S. jB John Hughlings Jackson , M.D* Emanuel Klein , M.D. E. Ray Lankester , M.A.

