An Intracellular Toxin of the Typhoid Bacillus .
77 The ordinary manifestations of life cease at zero , but at - 190 ' C. we have reason to suppose that intracellular metabolism must in addition practically cease\#151 ; as a result of the withdrawal of two of its cardinal physical conditions , viz. , heat and moisture .
It is difficult to form a conception of living matter under this new condition , which is neither life nor death , or to select a term which will accurately describe it .
In previous experiments it was found that the photogenic bacteria preserved their normal luminous properties after exposure to the temperature of liquid air .
On re-thawing , a rapid renewal of the photogenic properties of the cells occurred .
The light is apparently produced by a chemical process of intracellular oxidation .
The feasibility of triturating micro-organisms at the temperature of liquid air has now been experimentally established in the case of the typhoid bacillus and other bacteria.* The effect of such mechanical trituration .at the temperature of liquid air on the luminous properties of the photogenic bacteria has now been tested .
The experiments have shown that the effect of such a trituration is to abolish the luminosity of the cells in question .
This points to the luminosity being essentially a function of the iliving cell , and dependent for its production on the intact organisation \gt ; of the cell .
I am indebted to Professor Dewar for valuable suggestions , and to Mr. Sydney Rowland and Mr. J. E. Barnard for their assistance in the experiments , which were carried out at the Jenner Institute of Preventive Medicine .
" An Intracellular Toxin of the Typhoid Bacillus .
" By Allan Macfadyen , M.D. , and Sydney Rowland , M.A. Communicated by Lord Lister , F.R.S. Received August 14 , 1902 .
The existence of a specific toxin produced by the typhoid bacillus has hitherto not been demonstrated , although it has been assumed by .
analogy with other organisms and by reasoning from the clinical course of the disease .
Such a poison must either be intracellular or extracellular .
That it does not exist in filtered cultures of the organism is the \#166 ; common experience of bacteriologists .
Its absence from such cultures might be due , however , to unsuitability of the soil used for growing the organism .
# " The Intracellular Constituents of the Typhoid Bacillus , " Allan Maefadyen and Sydney Rowland , * Centralblat t f. Bakteriologie , ' vol. 30 , 1901 , No. 20 .
78 An Intracellular Toxin of the Typhoid Bacillus .
Accordingly the first step in the search for the body in question consisted in substituting for the usual broth and peptone media , , culture fluids approaching more nearly in constitution the natural body soils which clinically support the growth of the bacillus .
For this purpose , the organism was grown on the actual intracellular juices of the following organs and tissues obtained in a fresh condition from the ox or calf :\#151 ; Intestinal mucous membrane , mesenteric lymphatic glands and spleen .
In each case the intracellular juice was brought to the requisite degree of alkalinity and used as a culture soil under the- following conditions :\#151 ; 1 .
Aerobically .
2 .
Anaerobically .
3 .
With addition of normal human serum .
4 .
After heating to 55 ' C. for 20 minutes .
After from 4 to 6 weeks ' growth the organisms were filtered off and the filtrate tested for toxicity in guinea-pigs .
With the possible exception of one spleen juice , none of the fluids thus obtained exhibited any acute toxic power .
It thus became necessary to search , within the typhoid organism itself for the missing toxin. .
For this purpose the organisms were grown on ordinary beef broth agar , and after careful washing with distilled water were disintegrated in a mechanical contrivance at the temperature of liquid air ( -180'C .
) This course was taken to satisfy the conditions that\#151 ; ( 1 ) No chemical change should take place during the disintegration , and ( 2 ) The organisms could be disintegrated alone , without the addition of any triturating substance , the necessary subsequent removal of which might vitiate the composition of the resulting mass .
If such a disintegrated mass be freed from whole bacilli ( if present ) and from other suspended insoluble particles by centrifugalisation , an opalescent fluid results , which on inoculation into animals in small doses invariably proves toxic or fatal .
It is therefore concluded that the typhoid bacillus contains within itself an intracellular toxin .
The typhoid cell juices obtained by the above method are being examined for immunising and other properties at the Jenner Institute of Preventive Medicine , where the above investigations have been , conducted .

