160 Messrs. H. T. Brown and F. Escombe . .
Note on^ the Influence of very Low Temperatures on the Germinative Power of Seeds .
" By Horace T. Brown , F.R.S. , and F. Escombe , B.Sc. , F.L.S. Eeceived September 27 , \#151 ; Beqd November 18 , 1897 .
A considerable difference of opinion still exists amongst biologists as to the condition of the protoplasts of resting seeds , spores , \amp ; c. , in which all ordinary signs of life may be unrecognisable for a considerable peiiod .
According to one view , the essential elements of the cell , during the period of inertness , are still undergoing feeble but imperceptible alteration , accompanied by gaseous exchange with the surrounding atmosphere ; and , even when ordinary respiration is in abeyance , it is assumed there are small internal changes going on , due to the interaction of certain constituents of the protoplasm , reactions which may be independent of the outside gaseous medium , and which are often referred to under the somewhat vague term of " intramolecular respiration .
" On the other hand , it is sometimes maintained that all metabolism is completely arrested in protoplasm when in the dormant state , and that it then loses , for the time being , all power of internal adjustment to external conditions .
According to one view , therefore , the machinery of the dormant protoplasts is merely " slowed down " to an indefinite extent , whilst according to the other it is completely brought to rest for a time , to be once more set going when external conditions are favourable .
It appears to us that the advocates of the " slowing-down " hypothesis have scarcely given sufficient attention to the experimental evidence available , , and that they have been somewhat biased by a supposed analogy between the dormant state of seeds and the hibernating state in animals , and have also , perhaps , been unconsciously influenced by Mr. Herbert Spencer 's well-known definition of life , which implies a constant internal adjustment in the living protoplasm .
The experiments of the late Gr .
J. Romanes , which were described in a short paper laid before the Society in 1893* are full of interest in their bearing on this question .
Seeds of various plants were submitted in glass tubes to high vacua of 1/ 1000000 of an atmosphere for a period of fifteen months .
In some cases , after the seeds had been in vacuo for three months , they were transferred to other tubes charged respectively with oxygen , hydrogen , nitrogen , carbon monoxide , carbon dioxide , hydrogen sulphide , aqueous vapour , and the vapour of ether and chloroform .
The results proved that neither a high vacuum , nor subsequent exposure for twelve months to any of * 1 Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' vol. 57 , p. 335 .
Influence of very Low Temperatures on Power .
16i the above gases or vapours , exercised much , if any , effect on the subsequent germinative power of the seeds employed .
These experiments of Eomanes are certainly of the highest importance , since the seeds were submitted for a long period to conditions which must certainly have excluded anything like respiration by ordinary gaseous exchange , but the conditions did not preclude with the same certainty the possibility of chemical interactions of some kind or other within the protoplasm , those ill-understood changes , in fact , which have been referred to " intramolecular respiration .
" It is true that in some of the experiments , notably those in which the vapours of chloroform and ether were employed , the probability of any such internal reactions is rendered somewhat remote , but still , in most cases , the experiments admit of the possibility of feeble metabolic activity continuing in the cytoplasm .
It occurred to us , some months ago , that more evidence would probably be forthcoming on these points if we could submit seeds to a temperature below that at which ordinary chemical reactions take place , thus eliminating any possibility of interactions between the constituents of the protoplasm .
Owing to the kindness of Professor Dewar , who has been good enough to place the resources of his laboratory at our disposal , and to undertake this part of the work for us , we have been able to ascertain how far the subsequent germinative power of a considerable variety of seeds is affected by prolonged exposure to the very low temperatures produced by the slow evaporation of liquid air .
The seeds , enclosed in thin glass tubes , were slowly cooled , and immersed in a vacuum-jacketted flask containing about 2 litres of the liquid air , which was kept replenished so as to submit the seeds for 110 consecutive hours to a temperature of from \#151 ; 183 ' C. to \#151 ; 192 ' C. About 10 litres of liquid air were required for the experiment .
The seeds had been previously air-dried only , so contained from about 10 to 12 per cent , of natural moisture .
After the above treatment they were slowly and carefully thawed , a process which occupied about 50 hours , and their germinative power was then compared with control experiments made on other portions of the seed which had not been treated in any way .
The seeds experimented on were as follows :\#151 ; Hordeum dis Avena sativa .
Cucurbita Pepo .
Cyclanthera explodens .
Lotus Tetragonolobus .
Pi sum elatius .
Trigonella fcenu Impatiens balsamina .
Helianthus ann Heracleum villo Convolvulus tricolor .
Funkia sieboldiana .
Messrs. H. T. Brown and F. Escombe .
These include representatives of the following natural orders :____ Graminea ?
, Cucurbitaceas , Leguminoseae , Geraniaceae , Compositte , Umbelliferas , Convolvulaceae , and Liliaceae .
Some of the seeds are endospermous , others non-endospermous , and the reserve material consists in some cases of starch .
, and in others of oil or of mucilage .
Their germinative power , after being submitted to the low temperature , showed no appreciable difference from that of the controls , and the resulting plants , which were in most cases grown to full maturity , were equally healthy in the two cases .
In 1892 Professor Dewar and Professor McKendrick found that a temperature of \#151 ; 182 ' C. continued for one hour is insufficient to sterilise putrescent substances such as blood , milk , flesh , \amp ; c. , and that seeds would germinate after the action of a similar temperature for the same period of time.* When we commenced our experiments we were unaware that any other observations of a similar nature had been made , but whilst they were in progress our attention was drawn to an important memoir by C. de Candolle , !
in which the latent life of seeds is discussed in the light of a number of low temperature experiments made principally by himself and R. Pictet , and described at intervals in the Geneva ' Archives .
' !
In By earlier experiments of C. de Candolle and Pictet , made in 1879 , temperatures of \#151 ; 39 ' C. to \#151 ; 80 ' C. were employed , and these only from two to six hours , whilst Wart-mann in 1881 exposed seeds for two hours to \#151 ; 110 ' C. without effect .
In 1884 Pictet found that an exposure of various kinds of Bacte-riaceoe for three days to \#151 ; 70 ' C , , and afterwards for a further period of thirty-six hours to \#151 ; 120 ' , did not destroy their vitality , and in the same year Pictet and C. de Candolle exposed seeds to \#151 ; 100 ' C. for four days with the same result .
Pictet , in 1893 , further extended his observations to various microbes and also to a large number of seeds , and claims to have cooled them down without effect to nearly \#151 ; 200 ' C. , but he gives no details of the experiments , nor any indication of the length of time during which the cooling lasted. .
His conclusions , however , are that , since all chemical action is annihilated at \#151 ; 100 ' C. , life must be a manifestation of natural laws of the same type as gravitation and weight .
In his memoir of 1895 ( loc. cit. ) C. de Candolle discusses very * ' Roy .
Inst. Proc. , ' 1892 , vol. 13 , p. 699 .
f 'Archives des Sci. Phys. et Not .
, ' Geneva , 1895 , vol. 33 , p. 497 .
J E. Wartman , 1860 , ' Archives des Sci. Phys. et Not .
, ' 1860 , p. 277 ; C. de Candolle and Pictet , 1879 , ibid. , vol. 2 , p. 354 ; ibid. , vol. 2 , p. 629 ; E. Wart-mann , 1881 , ibid. , vol. 5 , p. 340 ; R. Pictet , 1884 , ibid. , vol. 11 , p. 320 ; R. Pictet and C. de Candolle , ibid. , p. 325 ; R. Pictet , 1893 , ibid. , vol. 30 , p. 293 ; C. de Candolle , 1895 , ibid. , vol. 33 , p. 497 .
Influence of very Low Temperatures on Germinative Power .
163 fully whether wre must regard the life of the resting seed as completely arrested for a time or merely temporarily slackened ( ralentie ) , .
and he gives the results of some new experiments on seeds maintained at from \#151 ; 37 ' C. to \#151 ; 53 ' C. in the " snow-box " of a refrigerating machine for a period of 118 days .
Most of the seeds resisted this treatment successfully , and the author concludes that after a sufficient interval of time has elapsed the protoplasm of the ripe seed passes into a state of complete inertness in which it is incapable either of respiration or assimilation , and that whilst in this condition it can support , without detriment to its subsequent revival , rapid and considerable lowering of temperature .
De Candolle then points out that if it really be a fact that the suspended life of a resting seed is in any way dependent on respiration , *we might expect this to be shown by submitting seeds to a barometric vacuum for some time .
He does not appear to have followed out this suggestion , and is apparently unaware of the direct experiments on this point carried out by Romanes two years previously ; he argues , however , that if ordinary respiration is a factor of any importance , this may be determined by immersing the seeds in mercury for such a length of time as to ensure the complete consumption of the small amount of oxygen contained within their tissues .
It was found that when seeds of wheat , and of sativum were thus treated , for periods varying from one to three months , their power of germination was not sensibly affected .
Although these last described experiments of C. de Candolle go far to show that any considerable amount of respiration is unnecessary for the maintenance of potential life in the protoplasm of resting seeds , they are not inconsistent with the view that some minute amount of gaseous exchange may be going on during the whole course of the experiment at the expense of the oxygen contained in the seeds at the time of immersion in the mercury .
The results would have been far more conclusive on this point if it had been shown that the gaseous oxygen originally contained in .
the seed tissue had been completely used up in an early stage of the experiment .
The experiments of Romanes , however , conducted with high vacua and atmospheres of various gases , leave no room for doubt on this question , and we must consequently abandon all idea of the dormant state of resting seeds having any necessary dependence whatever on ordinary respiratory processes .
Neither* set of experiments , however , excludes the possibility of molecular interchanges in the protoplasm itself , such molecular transpositions in fact as those which can often be induced in living cells placed under anaerobic conditions , and which are all exothermic in character , and generally , but not necessarily , attended with the liberation of more or less C02 .
The great value of the low temperature experiments wre have described Messrs. H. T. Brown and F. Escombe .
lies in the fact that , such processes of .autoxidation , and in fact any conceivable internal chemical change in the protoplasts , are rendered impossible at temperatures of \#151 ; 180 ' C. to \#151 ; 190 ' C. , and that we must consequently regard the protoplasm in resting seeds as existing in an absolutely inert state , devoid of any trace of metabolic activity , and yet conserving the potentiality of life .
Such a state has been admirably compared by C. de Candolle with that of an explosive mixture , whose components can only react under determinate conditions of temperature ; as long as these conditions remain unfulfilled the substances can remain in contact with each other for an indefinite period without , combining .
It appears to us that the occurrence of a state of complete chemical inertness in protoplasm , without a necessary destruction of its potential activity , must necessitate some modification in the current ideas of the nature of life , for this inert state can scarcely be included in Mr. Herbert Spencer 's well-known definition , which implies a continuous adjustment of internal to external relations.* The definition doubtless holds good for the ordinary kinetic state of protoplasm , but it is not sufficiently comprehensive to include protoplasm in the static condition in which it undoubtedly exists in resting seeds and spores .
The definition becomes in fact one of " vital activity " rather than of life .
As it is inconceivable that the maintenance of " potential vitality " in seeds during the exposure of more than 100 hours to a temperature of \#151 ; 180 ' to \#151 ; 190 ' C. can be in any way conditioned by , or correlated with , even the feeblest continuance of metabolic activity , it becomes difficult to see why there should be any time limit to the perfect stability of protoplasm when once it has attained the resting state , provided the low temperature is maintained ; in other words an immortality of the individual protoplasts is conceivable , of quite a different kind from that potentiality for unending life which is manifested by the fission of unicellular organisms , and with which Weismann has rendered us familiar .
In what manner and to what extent " resting " protoplasm differs from ordinary protoplasm we do not at present know , but there are indications , notably those afforded by the resting state of desiccated * The following passage from the ' First Principles ' ( Section 25 ) clearly shows that the author in constructing his definition had not anticipated the possibility of a living organism attaining a state of absolutely stable equilibrium .
" All vital actions , considered not separately but in their , have for their final purpose the balancing of certain outer processes by certain inner processes .
There are unceasing external forces tending to bring the matter of which organic bodies consist into that state of stable equilibrium displayed by inorganic bodies ; there are internal forces by which this tendency is constantly antagonised , and the perpetual changes which constitute life may be regarded as incidental to the maintenance of the antagonism .
" Influence of very Low Temperatures on Power .
165 Rotifera , and also by some recent experiments of Yan Eyck on discontinuous germination , * that ordinary protoplasts may , by suitable treatment , be brought to the " resting " condition .
In 1871 , Lord Kelvin , in his Presidential Address to the British Association , threw out the suggestion that the origin of life as we know it may have been extra-terrestrial , and due to the " moss-grown fragments from the ruins of another world , " which reached the earth as meteorites . !
That such fragments might circulate in the intense cold of space for a perfectly indefinite period without prejudice to their freight of seeds or spores , is almost certain from the facts we know about the maintenance of life by " resting " protoplasm ; the difficulties in the way of accepting such a hypothesis certainly do not lie in this direction .
We must express our thanks to Mr. Thiselton-Dyer and to Dr. D. H. Scott , for the facilities they have given us in carrying out these experiments in the Jodrell Laboratory .
Addendum .
After the completion of the above Note , our attention was called to a recent investigation by M\#171 ; ft. Chodat , on the influence of low temperatures on Mucov 'Hfiucsdo.'j^ ffe found that a lowTering of temperature foi several hours to \#151 ; 70 ' to \#151 ; 110 ' C. failed to kill young spores of the mucor , and he adduces certain evidence , which is not , however , wholly convincing , that even the mycelium itself , when cultivated on Agar-Agar , and whilst in active growth , is able to resist the action 01 these low temperatures .
The author sums up his opinion as to the bearing of his experiments on the nature of life in the following words : u La respiration -elle-meme est evidemnjent completement arretee a cette temperature ou les corps chimiques no reagissent plus les uns sir les autres .
Si l'on considere que la vie consiste principalement en un echange continuel de substance , soit par la nutrition intra-cellulaire , soit par la respiration , alors il faut convenir qu'a ces temperatures basses la vie n'existe plus .
C'est un fatal erreur qu on rencontre dans presque tons les traites que la respiration est un condition necessaire de la vie , alors qu'elle nest qu un des conditions de sa manifestation .
La vie est conditionnee par certaines structures .
Les forces qui les mettent en jeu peuvent etre des forces toutes physiques .
Elies sont simplement les sources d energy qui pourront mettre la machine en mouvement .
" * 6 Ann. Agron .
, ' vol. 21 ( 1895 ) , p. 236 .
.j- We find that Professor Dewar called attention in one of his Loyal Institution lectures in 1892 to the bearing of his low temperature experiments with spores , \amp ; c. , on this suggestion of Lord Kelvin 's ( see ' Roy .
Inst. Froc .
, 1892 , vol. 13 , p. 699 ) .
X 4 Bulletin de l'Herbier Boisier , ' vol. 4 ( 1896 ) , p. 894 .

