240 On the Thyroid Gland of the .
[ Jaili 27 The mean annual secular change observed , 8 ' 5"-72 declination diminishing , is larger than that determined by Sir E. Sabine , which was 7 ' 39 " ; but this is only in accordance with the opinion expressed in the former paper , where it is shown that the secular change is a variable one , and is probably now becoming progressively more rapid .
The semiannual inequality is also largely increased , being now 81 '*80 , whereas between 1857 and 1862 it was only 58"*85 ; possibly part of this difference may , however , be due to the fact of the observations now under notice having only been made at isolated periods , whilst the latter result was obtained from the hourly readings of the magnetograph recording the declination continuously .
The observations discussed in this paper have been made and reduced by Mr. G- .
M. Whipple , B.Sc. , Magnetic Assistant , and Messrs. Callnm , Power , and Pigg , observers , under his supervision .
III .
" Contributions to the Minute Anatomy of the Thyroid Gland of the Dog .
" By E. Cresswell Baber , M.D. Loud .
Communicated by Dr. Klein , E.R.S. Received December 9 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The minute structure of the thyroid gland generally , and of its lymphatics in particular , are subjects still but imperfectly understood .
With the view of elucidating the latter , the following research was made on the thyroid gland of the dog .
The research was carried out under the direction of Dr. Klein .
On injecting the lymphatics of this organ with Berlin blue , by the method of puncture , they present the following characters :\#151 ; Traversing the gland , chiefly in a longitudinal direction , are large lymphatic vessels provided with valves .
In direct connexion with these , and permeating the gland in all directions , is a dense mesh work of lymphatic tubes and spaces .
The smaller lymphatic tubes run between individual gland-vesicles , the larger between groups of the same .
They accommodate themselves accurately to the intervals left between the vesicles , and where the intervals are larger they expand into irregularly shaped lymphatic spaces .
They present no appearance of terminating in blind extremities as stated by some authors .
Injections with nitrate of silver show the lymphatic vessels , tubes , and spaces to be all lined with a continuous layer of endothelial plates .
During this investigation it became necessary to study more carefully the interalveolar tissues .
This led to the discovery in them of a tissue which does not appear to have yet been described .
This tissue , which is designated by the author by the name of " consists of large rounded cells , each provided with an oval nucleus , found either singly or in groups amongst the epithelial cells .
From \#166 ; 376 .
] On the Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal .
241 / jpearances presented by the parenchymatous cells , the author concludes ; lat they originate external to the vesicles by exerting pressure on the nthelial wall of the vesicles ; they then produce a flattening and *n ssorption of the same , and finally make their way through it into the i i iterior of the vesicle .
f The author in conclusion points to the morphological identity existing t dtween the contents of the lymphatics and those of the vesicles\#151 ; the mtents , namely , of both appear during life to be a viscid substance \gt ; hich , in sections of hardened specimens , present a like morphological spect , and stain in a similar manner with reagents .
This identity , if roven in other respects , will go far to show that one , possibly the hdef , function of the thyroid gland is the formation in the vesicles of a laterial which is carried by the lymphatics into the general circulation .
1 This paper is accompanied by nineteen drawings illustrative of the pmphatics and parenchyma of the glands .
V. " Research on the Minute Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal .
" By Herbert Watney , M.A. , Demonstrator of Microscopical Anatomy at St. George 's Hospital .
Communicated by Dr. Klein , F.R.S. , Assistant Professor in the Brown Institution .
Received December 16 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) This research was commenced and carried on for the first fifteen nonths under the direction of Dr. Klein ; during the last year it was continued independently .
Chapter I. describes the minute anatomy , of the mucous membrane of she small intestine and the method of fat-absorption .
The author commences the Chapter by giving a history of the researches \gt ; f previous observers , and the methods he employed for hardening and staining the tissue .
He then gives a description of the minute structure of the mucosa .
The following are the results obtained .
1 .
The { epithelium.\#151 ; Lymph-corpuscles are constantly found among the epithelial cells of the intestine .
Further it is found that the epithelium contains a reticulum continuous with the reticulum of the mucosa ; this reticulum appears in horizontal sections of the epithelium as small branched cells , which sometimes show a nucleus .
In vertical sections the reticulum is seen as a dark line at the base of the epithelium , and from this dark line fine processes run among the epithelial cells .
The reticulum is stained very deeply by chloride of gold or by hsematoxylin .
In teased preparations , if the epithelial cells are isolated , shreds of the reticulum are seen to be attached to the separate cells .
The epithelial cells are described as being closed at their free extremities .

