]\gt ; Sir W. de W. Abney .
On th Estimation of the " " On the Estimation of the Luminosity of Coloured Surfaces used for Colour Discs By Sir WILLIAM DE W. ABNEY , K.C.B. , .
Beceived May 5 , \mdash ; Read May 31 , 1900 .
When a sourcs of light is small , such as the points of an arc light , candle , or lamp , it is comparatively easy to find the luminosity of any coloured surface which is illuminated by it , using the method which has been described in " " Colour Photometry , Part Il\ldquo ; but when the source of light is a large surface , such as the sky , the method therein described is much more difficult to apply .
Quite recently , when examining the question of providing suitable screens for producing the negatives required for three-colour photographic prints , it became necessary to devise a plan by which rings of different colours could be made of equal luminosity in ordinary daylight by rotating them with the proper proportions of black .
The rings were concentric and rotated as a disc , is the nut of the spindle .
is a violet disc ( methyl violet ) .
is a portion of a blue ring ( French ultramarine ) .
, , , , red ring ( vermilion ) .
, , , , greell ring ( emerald green ) .
, , , , yellow ring yellow .
, , , , white see fig. 1 , and the difficulty encountered was to ascertain what amount of black ought to form part of each ring .
In " " Colour Photometry , Part III , \ldquo ; it was shotvn that only one ray * Abney and Festing , ' Phil. Trans , 1888 .
Abney and , ' Phil. Trans , 1892 .
inosity of Cotoured Surfaces used for Discs .
119 of the spectrum , a greenish-yellow , progressed in luminosity at the same rate as white light .
Thus , if part of a whits screen were illuminated by this colour and anotlJer part by whits lighb , and the luminosities were equal ( say ) to one candle , then if the two beams were equally diminished they would still match in luminosity until the light was so feeble that it ceased to stimulate the retina .
Other rays lying not far from this ray , both on the red and green side of it , gave practically the same resuIts .
When , however , the red was compared with the white , each being mads equal ( say ) to one candle , eqnal diminution of the beams did not show the luminosities as the same , the red becoming rapidly less luminous than the whits .
With the blue-green , the blue , and the violet the reverse was the case , the white becoming darker than the colour as the wers equally diminished .
A more extended research which is nearly complete shows that the observations recorded in Part III of ' ' Colour Photometry\ldquo ; are correct and be applied to the problem which I wished to solve .
Further , it was in the same paper that colour disappeared from all rays of the spectrum long befors ( except in the case of ths pure red ) their light was extinguished , this last owing to the feeble stimulation of the retina .
Naturally , as the colour began to disappear , the matching of the luminosity of the ray under considsration with that of white became to carry out .
These facts made it possible to devise a ready method to ascsrtain the luminosity of any colour .
If we take two yellow discs , one ( say ) 8 inches in diameter and the other 4 , and between them sandwich a pair of interlaced black and white discs of 6 inches diameter , and rotate the four discs on a rotating machine at a speed which will make the black and white into a grey without scintillation , this grey can be made , by aItering the proportion of black to white , to match the luminosity of the yellow .
A very exact match can be obtained by observing the discs through a black transparent medium , such as the black obtained on a photographic plate after development with methol or amidol developers .
The deposit may be so dense that the yellow colour may practically disappear .
and the two dull greys may then be readily matched .
The luminosity of the yellow in terms of the white is given by the angle which the white subtends when the small proportion of white reflected from the black annulus is added to it .
The same procedure may be adopted for a green colour and its luminosity be obtained .
It may be stated that four or five observations for each colour should be made if great exactness is required .
yhen the luminosities of these two colours have been determined , 4-inch discs of them may be interlaced with a blue , and a grey formed , which can ] ) matched with a grey formed of black and white as before .
1c 2 Sir W. de W. Abney .
On the mation of the FIG. 2 .
are yellow discs .
is a black disc .
: , white disc .
is the nut of the spindle .
From the angles which the sectors of the colours subtend and of the black and white employed , the luminosity of the blue can ) calculated .
The luminosity of the blue being ascertained , a red disc may be interlaced with the green and the blue disc , and that of the red calculated .
As a check a black and yellow disc may be interlaced and compared with the colour given with the red and green discs interlaced , one of the pairs of course being of greater diameter than the other .
To ascertain what degree of accuracy could be attained the following experiment is given in detail .
The light used was the arc light , and the measurements as described above made .
It was found that the black reflected per cent. of white light , and that when the Inminosity of the } was matched the interlaced black and white discs occupied respectively of the compound disc .
This gave the yellow a luminosity of 78 , white being 100 .
In a similar way the luminosity of emerald green was found to be 43 .
These two discs were interlaced with a dark blne disc and a grey formed which matched a grey formed by black and white .
The following equaoion was obtained:\mdash ; Yellow .
Green .
BIue . .
Blnck .
White .
Luminosity of C'oloured Surfaces for Colour Discs .
121 Yellow .
The luminosity of of Green .
, , of White .
, , of Blue .
The luminosity of 171 is therefore represented by The luminosity of blue pigment is therefore of The luminosities of the three pigments were then compared with white by the method described in Part II of ' ' Colour Photometry and found to be Yellow . .
rreen Blue The luminosity of the blue only differs by that found by the new plan by , which is a very close approximation .
The red disc was then interlaced with the blue and the green , and a grey formed as before , and from calculation it was found that it had a luminosity of .
Measuring it by the old plan , the luminosity came out as Having obtained the luminosity of the three standard colours , that of any other colour can be calculated by substituting for one of them a disc of such colour , and again making a grey and matching it with a grey formed by the black and white .
It will be noticed that this method can be carried out in any light , whether candle light , electric light , or day light ; but of course the luminosities of the colours will vary according to the quality and kind of light employed .
the luminosities of the colours are determined , the angles which the segments of the anrluluses in fig. 1 should subtend can be calculated after taking into account the luminosity of the black employed .
When the disc is rotated round , each colour should be equally luminous , and if by means of an appropriate screen , placed in front of the lens , the image of the disc impresses the photographic plate in such 122 .
J. S. Townsend .
The Difusion of Ions produced a malmer as to make the density of each part of the negative the same on development , then all obiects photographed with such a screen interposed on similar plates will be rendered in proper gradations of light and shade regardless of their colour or colours .
" " The Diffusion of Ions produced in Air by the Action of a Radioactive Substance , Ultra-violet Light , and Point Discharges By JOHN S. NSEND , , Clerk Maxwell Student , Cavendish Laboratory , ellow of Trinity , Cambridge .
Commulllcated by Professor J. J. THOMSON , eceived May \mdash ; Read June ] , 1900 .
( Abstract ) The researches described in this paper form a continuation of those published on the Diffusion of Ions into Gases .
The latter paper gives the resuIts of experiments made with ions produced in air , oxygen , hydrogen , and carbonic acid by the action of Rontgen rays .
The gases in these experiments were at atmospheric pressure .
The present paper contains similar investigations for ions produced in air at various pressures by the action of a radio-active substance , and also determinations of the rate of diffusion of ions produced in air at atmospheric pressure by the action of ultra-violet light and point discharges .
The principle of the method consists in calculating the coefficient of diffusion from observations on the loss of conductivity of a gas as it passss along metal tubing .
The experiments were arranged so that in all cases the loss of conductivity dus to diffusion should be much greater than the loss due to other causes , so that it was not to apply any corrections for losses arising from recombination or from the mutual repulsion of the ions .
The results of the experiments are given in the }ving tablesTables I , II , III , and IV give the coefficients of diffusion , , of positive and negative ions in dry and moist air at various pressures , , the ionization being produced by the action of a radio-active lbstance .
The temperature of the air during each experiment is given in the column These tables show that in each case the rate of diffusion of ions into a gas is inversely proportionaI to the pressure of the gas .
The coefficients of diffusion mm. show from this law , which is somewhat greater the error of the experiments , but we should not expect it closer agreement between the products unless the tempcrature of the air was the same * ' Phil. , ' , vol. 193 , pp.

