The following communication received from Professor Hermann Schlagintweit was read : " Results of Observations on the Distribution of Temperature in the Alps .
" 1 .
The greatest irregularities and the most considerable local inflexions of isothermals are observed at the lower heights .
2 .
Generally speaking , the depression of temperature is also very sensible at stations in the Alps when proceeding from south to north ; and the eastern parts are colder than the western .
One degree of latitude produces in the plain of Lombardy a difference of temperature amounting to 0 ?
'7 C. In the interior parts of the Alps the difference is 0 ?
'5 to 0 ?
'6 C. 3 .
If we consider the isothermal lines on a longitudinal profile of the Alps , we find that their forms show some connexion with the mean elevation of the different parts of the Alps .
The isothermals rise where the mean elevation is greater ; they sink at the borders and on smaller groups .
This convexity of the isothermal lines in the centre of the Alps is still more considerable if we represent by them the temperature of the earth , since the latter is still more intimately connected with the mass of the mountains , with the insulation and radiation of the rocky substance ; whilst for the temperature of the air , differences of that kind are more eliminated by its mobility .
4 .
The vertical distances of two isothermals are the greatest near the base of the Alps , attain afterwards a minimum , and become in the higher parts again a little greater .
The position of the minimum takes place in the Northern Alps and the group of the St. Gothard at nearly 6000 French feet ; in the central parts at nearly 7000 ; for the group of Mont Blanc it seems to be at a still greater elevation .
5 .
The height corresponding to a depression of temperature of 1 ?
C. is in the mean 540 F. feet =90 toises= 166 metres , if we compare the lowest stations of continued observatior with the highest stations ; but if we consider the temperature of the highest summits , the height becomes rather less ( 510 feet for the Central Alps ) .
6 .
The mean temperature of the air seems to be , for the highest summits , from -13 ?
to -15 ?
C. 7 .
At the greater elevations the temperature of single months is generally altered in this manner:-The temperatures of February and January , of August and July , differ less from each other than they do at lower stations .
8 .
The influence of the general form of the surface on the temperature is particularly evident when we consider the mean temperature of the months .
The valleys during the winter are in general colder than the mountains , the cold air sinking down and being accumulated in them ; during the summer they are comparatively warmer , the heat being reflected and radiated by the insulated masses near them , and circulation produced , especially in the horizontal direction : their climate is therefore subject to greater extremes , though in the annual mean it scarcely differs from the Alps in general .
The declivities during the winter are comparatively warmer , since the air near the surface , after sinking down in the valleys , is replaced readily by less cold strata .
During the summer , particularly in southern exposures , and if the relative height above the bottom of the valley is not great , they are also a little warmer , since then they can partially be reached by the ascending current of air .
But this increase of temperature being smaller than that of winter , these situations have a more constant climate than the valleys .
The mean temperature of the year on declivities , particularly with southern exposures , is therefore a little higher than the mean of the Alps in general .
9 .
Summits and declivities , with an exposure to north and to northeast , show also the character of a constant climate ; but the temperature of summer is much lower , and consequently the annual mean is also sensibly depressed .
10 .
The depression of temperature with elevation is greater in summer than in winter , amounting for example to 1 ?
C. for 440 feet in July , and for 710 feet in January .
The cause of this is , that in the lower parts of the mountains the differences between single months are greater than in the higher parts .
11 .
The elevation of the point , near which on a vertical line the depression of temperature is the greatest , is a different one in every month .
It is the highest , when the Alps are covered with snow , in December and January ; from March to September this point is generally found near the limit of snow ; in October and November it lies below the snow-line .
12 .
The height of the snow line in the months does not coincide always with the same isothermal .
In January the snow-line and the isothermal of 0 ?
are both nearly on the base of the Alps ; but from this time to July and August , the isothermal of zero moves quicker upwards than the snow-line , and from August to January quicker downwards .
The snow-line therefore in the first period coincides with isothermals warmer than 0 ?
C. ; in July it is even at +5 ?
C. The snow-line , in the usual sense , that is to say its highest limits in summer , is , at the mean temperature of the year , -4 ?
C. 13 .
Over large masses of snow and glaciers there is remarked , particularly on fine ( lays , a descending current of air ( glacier-wind ) , which has a great influence on the general depression of temperature near the limits of snow .
14 .
The absolute extremes of cold on single days are at the lower stations sometimes so great , that they are comparatively but little surpassed by those on the higher points .
But the differences between the higher and lower part are much greater if we consider the maxima of heat .
The absolute maxima seem scarcely ever to exceed 50 or 6 ?
C. on the highest summits of ' the Alps .
On all days the decrease of temperature is greater at the time of the maximum than at the minimum .
15 .
Compared therefore to the temperature of high latitudes , the sunmnits of the Alps correspond nearly to 70 ?
N. Lat. But the climate of the highest elevations on the Alps is much less severe than that of Northern Asia , and is more constant than that of Polar America .
Their minima of winter are much surpassed by nearly all stations in northern latitudes ; but the maxima of summer are colder than those of nearly all points on high latitudes at little elevation above the sea .
A paper was also in part read , entitled " ' On the Exogenous Processes of the Vertebra .
" By Professor Owen , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received November 8 , 1850 .

