REVERSIBLE AND IRREVERSIBLE SYSTEMS UNDER INFLUENCE OF LIGHT .
339 we have at the same time the most efficient and reliable method of distinguishing between constant cells showing no polarisation and combinations showing polarisation .
If a system shows no polarisation , and the above conception of the curve be true , there ought to be , during the induction period , only a gradual increase of the E.M.F. till the maximum is reached , and no drop , and similarly only a gradual diminution of the E.M.F. should be observed when light is removed and the system returns to its state in the dark .
This is now the second kind of curves we actually obtain with a series of other systems giving constant reversible cells .
A careful consideration of the reactions going on in these systems , under the action of light , shows also why they must be reversible constants .
As a result of this varied and very complicated research , which took over three years , we find that under the action of light we have a region of galvanic cells which is just ERRATUM .
Page 339 , line 25 : for " indicating a decomposition of 1 gramme electrochemical equivalent in 30,000 years , " read " indicating the separation , by decomposition , of 1 gramme of Hydrogen or of its electrochemical equivalent in 3,000,000 years .
" indicating a decomposition of 1 gramme electrochemical equivalent in 30,000 years .
The true meaning of the observations of Becquerel and Minchin is now apparent .
" The very curious inversion of the current " observed by Minchin with " Ag plates immersed in water containing eosine in solution " ( p. 211 ) , " Ag plates immersed into alcohol containing naphthalene red " ( p. 212 ) , with " bismuth in water " ( p. 213 ) , with " tin plates in alcohol " ( p. 216 ) , with his " sensitive " cell , consisting of a tin plate acted upon by nitric acid , and a tin plate in methyl alcohol ( p. 222 ) , is evidently in each case due to the fact that all these systems , as now clearly appears from their composition , must form inconstant cells exhibiting polarisation .
The reason why Becquerel with Ag , BrAg and IAg plates found a current sometimes in one direction , sometimes in another , is not " the thickness of the layer , " but the kind of combination of the heterogeneous system , of which the given plate forms only a part .
An Ag-AgCl plate in NaCl solution gives a constant cell , reversible in respect of the anion ; its current must , as will be shown later on , flow from the plate in the dark to the plate in the light .
If , however , the layer of AgCl is very thin , such a system will soon transform under the action of light into the system ( Ag in light , NaCl solution , Ag-AgCl in dark ) which is inconstant , showing 2x2

