On the Black Rete Mucosum of the Negro , being a Defence against the Scorching Efect of the Sun 's Rays .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. F.R.S. Read November 9 , 1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 1 .
] The use of the black rete mucosum of the negro is a subject which has fruitlessly engaged the attention of the physiologist .
The author 's mind was directed to this inquiry by the circumstance of a silver fish having its back scorched in consequence of the removal of some treeswhich shaded the pond in which it lived ; this recalled to Sir Everard 's recollection the circumstance of his having suffered severely from the scorching sun of the tropic , upon parts of the body protected from the direct rays of the sun by thin white linen , and led him to suspect that the noxious effects were derived not , as has commonly been supposed , from the mere heating power of the sun 's rays , but from the joint agency of heat and light : he therefore made certain experiments , detailed in this paper , which show that the face and hands may be exposed to a temperature of 1000 to 120 ?
, without producing pain , provided light be excluded ; but that if the same , or even an inferior degree of heat , be produced by the direct light of the sun , it scorches and elevates the cuticle in blisters ; this effect is prevented by covering the hand .
or face with thin black kerseymere , and the same purpose is attained by the 'black rete mucosum of the negro .
In these cases perspiration comes on , which it does not in the former , and the surface , though actually hotter , is uninjured .
Nature has provided a similar defence from the injury of light , by placing a black pigment at the bottom of the eye of those animals who are exposed to the intensity of the sun 's rays ; whereas in the inhabitants of shady and dark situations the pigment is either pale , or altogether wanting .
The author concludes this paper by ascribing the beneficial effects which he has shown to result from the black matter in the negro 's skin , and at the bottom of the eyes in certain animals , to the power which black surfaces possess of converting the radiant matter of the sun into sensible heat .

