1*7^ Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Similarities [ Apr. 18 a tendency towards reversal had already taken place after an exposure of about 9 seconds .
In the third , response is feebler still .
In the fourth during illumination , the normal response is extremely weak , and lasts for only 3 seconds ; there is then a reversal in the response which is fairly strong .
On the stoppage of light the effect continues for some time .
Hitherto the recovery commenced immediately on the cessation of light .
After the fourth , the responses are of opposite signs .
They also get feebler and feebler .
It will thus be seen that both electric radiation and light produce similar conductivity and electromotive variations .
In both , two opposite effects are observed .
The curves of effect in both are similar .
Under the action of continued radiation both exhibit a limiting effect .
Under too long continued action , both exhibit a tendency towards or an actual reversal .
In the next paper I shall adduce further evidence tending to show that these effects are due to molecular strain .
" On the Similarities between .Radiation and Mechanical Strains .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received April 18 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1901 .
I have in the previous paper described the various interesting effects due to visible and electric radiation .
Different considerations were adduced which tended to show that these effects were due to molecular strain , produced in the substance by the action of radiation* The whole history of the change produced by radiation\#151 ; both the direct and after-effects\#151 ; was graphically recorded in the various curves given .
It was supposed that the strain effect on a , substance was attended with conductivity or electromotive variation .
This supposition can be further verified by observing whether undoubted strain , which can be produced by mechanical means , does give rise to a conductivity or electromotive variation .
As regards the conductivity variation due to mechanical strain , it is well known that in the construction of standard resistance coils the effect of winding the wire on a spool is to produce a distinct variation of resistance , and that this strain effect can only be removed by annealing .
The difference between the resistance of a substance when strained and after it is annealed is sometimes very considerable .
The effect of electric radiation is very great in changing the conductivity of a mass of discontinuous particles .
It is to be borne in mind that the effect of electric radiation is only skin-deep .
As the action is one of surface , the larger the surface the greater is the effect produced .
We see that in loose particles the effective surface acces1901 ] between Radiation and Mechanical Strains .
175 .ble to radiation is very much enlarged .
Moreover , the resistance Offered to the particles is not due to the individual solid lumps , but to the resistance of surface layer .
It is precisely the surface layers that nre affected by radiation , and hence the marked variation of resistance .
When the particles become continuous , the radiation can only affect the extremely thin layer of molecules on the surface , the mass in the interior being shielded by the outer conducting sheet ; the molecular changes produced on the surface layer do not affect to any appreciable extent the conductivity of the mass .
For detection of strain effect in continuous solids the method of electromotive variation is more suitable .
We have seen that light causes a P.D. between the acted and unacted plate .
We shall employ this method to find out whether mechanical disturbance gives rise to a similar electromotive variation between the acted and unacted plate .
1 .
The Strain Cell .
For the purpose of the experiment , I made a voltaic element composed of two pieces of the same metal wire , W.W ' , cut from the same length .
These are fixed parallel to each other in an L-shaped piece of ebonite , see fig. 11 .
The upper ends of the wires are in connection with the electrodes EEf , which lead to a very sensitive dead-beat galvanometer of D'Arsonval type .
The wires at their lower ends are fixed to the ebonite piece by means of ebonite screws SS ' .
The upper ends , as has been said , are fixed to metallic rods EE ' ( which also serve as the electrodes ) , kept moderately stretched by springs CC .
A long handle , A , provided with a pointer , could be attached either to E or E ' , and by its means either of the wires could be twisted .
The angle of the twist is measured with the help of a graduated circle , not shown in the figure .
If a cell be made of two clean wires cut from the same piece , with water as the electrolyte , there should theoretically be no P.D. between the two .
But in practice there is found a small P.D. between the wires , owing to small difference in the molecular condition .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; -The Strain Cell .
176 Prof. J , C. Bose .
On the Similarities [ Apr. 18 But this initial difference can be annulled by appropriate means One method is to stretch one of the two wires by which the initial difference may be neutralised .
The particular wire which should be stretched is found by trial .
When the cell is first made , there is some irregularity in the action owing to molecular instability .
This can be made to disappear , if both the wires are vibrated for a time .
After these precautions are taken , results are obtained which are extraordinarily consistent .
Now if one of the two wires be continuously twisted , an increasing P:D .
is induced during torsion between the acted and the unacted .
This may be measured by the deflection of a sensitive galvanometer* Curves could thus be obtained with electromotive force , measured !
by the galvanometer deflection , as ordinate , and the time during which disturbance is kept up as abscissa .
Such curves were directly obtained by the recording apparatus described in my previous paper .
The wire was twisted at a uniform rate .
The successive dots represent the completion of 360 .
To keep the deflection within the scale , , a megohm was interposed in the circuit .
The resistance of the cell was about 5000 ohms .
The absolute values of electromotive force corresponding to the galvanometer deflections were subsequently obtained by noting the effect of a known electromotive force .
2 .
Effect of Torsional Disturbance .
Most of the metals\#151 ; exceptions presently to be described\#151 ; become-negative during fnolecular disturbance caused by torsion , i.e. , the current through the liquid is from the acted to the unacted wire .
As there is a considerable vagueness in the terms positive and which has led to much confusion , I would name the acted wire as becoming zincoid or Z , when under an external disturbance the current flows through the electrolyte from the acted to the unacted wire .
Again , in certain cases the reverse is true ; the currrent flows from the unacted to the acted wire j the acted wire will in that case be designated as cuproid or C. In fig. 12 is shown the effect of twist on Zn .
The induced electromotive variation is not due to twist as such , but to molecular disturbance induced during increasing twist .
For if the-wire be held stationary in the twisted position , the molecular disturbance with the attendant electromotive variation will gradually dis-appear .
( Fig. 12 .
) Other evidences will be brought forward to show that the effect is simply due to the molecular disturbance , and not to the twist .
The wires used in the following experiments were from commercial specimens .
The length was in every case about 9 cm .
, but the diameters were not the same .
$9011 between Radiation and Mechanical Strains .
17.7 If the conductivity variation under the stimulus of electric radiation and the electromotive variation under mechanical stimulus are but pxnressions of some molecular effect , we may expect the peculiarity of one kind of response reflected in the other .
We shall presently see how closely the normal effects in the two classes resemble each other .
Still more extraordinary are the similarities that exist even in abnormalities , several instances of which will be given later .
I shall men7 \ / \ ; \ s \ .
V 1 \#151 ; .
\ .
tel s*i ; Time .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; E.M. variation due to torsion of zinc wire .
Successive dots m the ascending portion of the curve represent effect of rotation through 360 .
The descending curve represents recovery .
tion here only one case .
We .have seen in experiments with electric radiation that substances sometimes fall into a sluggish molecular condition , when the responses almost disappear .
Strong stimulation ( induction shocks , \amp ; c. ) or annealing is found to restore the sensitiveness .
The same peculiarity is observed in the strain-cell .
Lead , for example , specially on cold days , is apt to fall into a sluggish condi tion , when it becomes almost irresponsive .
But it regains its sensitiveness after intense vibration or annealing .
All metals ( including the noble metal Pt ) when molecularly disturbed exhibit electromotive effect .
The intensity of electromotive variation depends on the nature and physical condition of the substance .
The intensity of effect does not , however , depend on the chemical activity of the substance , for the electromotive variation in the relatively inactive tin is greater than that of zinc .
The electrolyte used in the following experiments is common tap-water , but similar effects are also obtained with distilled water .
Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Similarities [ Apr. 18 3 .
Self-recovery .
It was said that the acted wire , usually speaking , becomes zincoid This is not universally the case ; there are substances which become cuproid under mechanical stimulus .
I have previously said that elec ti-ic radiation produces opposite effects on different substances ; silver is often found to show an effect ( increase of resistance ) opposite to the generality of metals .
It is very curious that silver is also often found to exhibit an opposite electromotive effect under twist , that is to say , the acted wire becomes C. As long as the wire is not overstrained there is always a recovery Observe the extremely regular recovery in the curve for Zn when the twisting was stopped .
It will be noticed that the recovery is very rapid at first , but slow in the later part , and that the recovery is complete .
4 .
Irreversible Molecular Effect of Twist .
In the case of electric radiation or light , the impulses are of a vibrational nature , unlike the one-directioned mechanical twist used in the above experiments .
To make the two sets of phenomena comparable , we should have the mechanical disturbance of a vibrational nature also .
I therefore next tried to see what the effect would be of reversing the direction of the twist , and found that the induced electromotive force is independent of the direction of twist .
I next tried the effect of a complete torsional vibration .
I twisted the wire suddenly through + 90 ' , then back to zero , then to - 90 % and again back to zero , the complete vibration being executed in half a second .
It will be seen that under these conditions we have a mere vibration and no resultant twist .
This gave rise to an electromotive variation , the magnitude of which simply depended , as will be shown later , on the amplitude of vibration .
It did not matter in the least whether the vibration commenced with a right- or left-handed twist .
It may be stated here that similar electromotive variation is obtained by molecular disturbance produced by a tap .
I shall now describe the effect of mechanical stimulus of varying intensities and durations .
The intensity may be varied by varying the amplitude of vibration .
We shall also study the effect of a single stimulus , or the summated effect of rapidly succeeding stimuli .
A set of experiments on the effect of mechanical stimulus may thus be carried out parallel to those on the effect of radiation stimulus .
It would then be instructive to compare the response-curves of mechanical and with those of radiation stimulus .
1901 .
] betvjeen Radiation and Mechanical Strains .
5 .
Effect of a Single Stimulus .
For studying the effect of mechanical stimulus , a voltaic element made of " tin " wire*- is very suitable .
Normal responses are easily obtained after annealing .
As has been said before , any other metal may be used ; I have , in fact , obtained as good results with platinum .
But the advantage of tin is that the electromotive variation is comparatively strong ; under favourable conditions the electromotive variation obtained is as high as 0'4 volt ; another advantage is that it shows very little fatigue .
On freshly making the cell , signs may be exhibited of abnormal irritability ; this is due to the fact that a stable molecular condition has not yet been reached ; but a more settled state soon supervenes , and after that a succession of responses is obtained which are extraordinarily regular and consistent amongst themselves .
That the responses are due to molecular disturbance in the acted wire may be shown by the following experiment .
The wire is clamped below ; when the wire is subjected to torsional vibration , there is produced a strong molecular disturbance with the attendant electromotive variation .
If the wire is now released from the clamp and vibration imparted as before , there would be no electromotive effect .
In fig. 13 is given a series of curves for different " intensities " of vibration .
For want of space I have given a few only of each series .
As a matter of fact , the succeeding series would have been mere repetitions of those which preceded .
I have taken as many as 500 successive records , and each record is a mere duplicate of the rest .
The substance does not exhibit any appreciable fatigue , especially if a period be allowed for complete recovery .
It will be seen that the rise is quick , whereas the fall is comparatively slow , specially in the later part .
If sufficient time be allowed the recovery is complete .
( In the curves given only 30 seconds were allowed , hence the recovery was not complete .
) On the cessation of disturbance the electromotive variation gradually disappears , the wires returning to their original condition , after which similar cycles of operation may be repeated for any length of time .
In the case of molecular distortion due to electric radiation we met with similar instances of complete recovery .
It was then shown that the effect was not primarily due to any chemical action , but was due to physical strain , the recovery taking place as it were by the release of strained molecular springs .
With strain cells , there is no permanent change ; the stimulated wire returns exactly to its original condition on the cessation of disturbance .
In the borderland between physics and chemistry no sharp line of * By tin wire is meant what is sold as such , and nsed as electric fuse .
It is a pliable alloy of tin and lead .
180 , Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Similarities [ Apr. 18 demarcation can be drawn between the two ; such divisions are somewhat arbitrary .
In the case of tin cell we have the two wires originally alike .
When one wire is vibrated a difference of potential is observed between the strained and unstrained wires , the P.D. dis .
13.\#151 ; E.M. variation due to a single vibration through 90 ' , 180 ' , and 360 ' in a Tin cell .
Period of vibration , 5 " .
Thick lines represent effect of stimulus , dotted lines represent the recovery .
appearing when the acted wire recovers from the strain .
We may describe the same fact in chemical language by saying that owing to strain there is a tendency of the strained wire to become chemically more active ( zinc-like ) , such tendency lasting only as long as it takes the wire to recover from the strained condition .
6 .
Increased Effect with Increasing Intensity of Vibration .
In fig. 13 are given the curves of response for single vibration , having amplitudes of 90 ' , 180 ' , and 360 ' , the period being 0'5 second .
It will be noticed that the intensity of response increases with the energy of vibration .
1901 .
] between Radiation and Mechanical Strains .
181 7 .
Effect of Summation of Stimuli .
In the case of effect of rapidly succeeding flashes of electric radiation on Ag ' , it was shown ( see fig. 14 ) that the partial effects were fused together and there was produced a limiting effect , kept balanced by the force of restitution .
With rapidly succeeding mechanical stimuli , we again obtain an exactly similar result .
Fig. 15 ( a , b ) shows the effect of continuous vibration on tin cell , with different intensities of vibration , the vibration-frequency being two in a second .
The curve gradually rises and attains a maximum , at which position it is Fig. 14.\#151 ; Effect of continuous vibration , ( a ) and ( b ) show effects on a Tin cell .
In ( c ) the effect on the particular Silver cell ; the sign of E.M. variation is opposite to that of Tin cell , ( d ) shows the effect on a Nickel cell .
held almost rigid as long as the disturbance is kept up .
But , on the stoppage of vibration there is an immediate recovery , and if sufficient time be allowed the recovery is complete , as seen in the last cuiWe of the series .
The disturbance was kept up for 1 minute , and the period of recovery allowed was also 1 minute .
In this way I obtained a long-continued series of exactly similar curves , there being little fatigue ; this is the case when a period of repose intervenes .
But if the vibration is kept up without intermission signs of fatigue begin to appear , and the curve tends to fall .
In some metals there may \#166 ; even be a reversal .
Observe the flat top of the curve similar to that of Ag ' under electric stimulus mentioned above .
Also the effects of \#166 ; different intensities of vibration , as shown in ( a ) and ( ) .
In ( d)is shown the effect of vibration on Ni .
After reaching the maximum there is a tendency towards reversal .
Ni also shows greater signs of fatigue .
Prof. J. C. Bose .
On the Similarities [ Apr. 18 , In ( c ) , fig. 14 , is shown the interesting curve for a given piece of Ag .
The effect is very much feebler , and curiously enough it gave an oppcn site response , the vibrated wire becoming cuproid .
It was said that silver occupied a peculiar position as regards response to electric radiation , sometimes responding in one , and again in an opposite manner , probably owing to its readiness to pass from one molecular condition to another , under slightly different external conditions .
With mechanical vibration , too , I find silver exhibiting opposite electric variation , the acted wire becoming on different occasions either Z or C. Reversed Effect due to Sub-normal Stimulus.\#151 ; Just like the negative effect { i.e. , opposite to the normal ) often exhibited under electric radiation ( d\gt ; Fig. 15 .
A. Effect of stimulus of short duration .
( \#171 ; ) Effect of electric radiation on Ag ' ( conductivity variation ) .
( 'b ) " light on HgBr ( E.M. variation ) .
( c ) " mechanical vibration on Tin ( E.M. variation ) .
B. Effect of continued action of stimulus .
( d ) Effect of continued action of electric radiation on Ag/ ( conductivity variation ) .
, \gt ; " " mechanical vibration on Tin ( E.M. variation ) .
( y ) " " , , light on AgBr ( E.M. variation ) .
( ff ) " " , , mechanical vibration on Nickel ( E.M. variation ) .
8 .
Reversal Effects .
1901- ] between Radiation and Mechanical Strains .
183 when the stimulus is below the critical intensity , so also it is found that a feeble mechanical stimulus often produces an effect opposite to the normal .
Thus with strain cell made of lead , I found that whereas the acted wire became cuproid with an amplitude of vibration of 4 ' , the same wire when vibrated through 45 became zincoid .
Thus in a Pb cell ( 50,000 ohms in circuit ) ^vibration.0 Deflection .
Kesult .
4 ' 5 divisions to right Acted wire C. 45 ' 70 " left \#187 ; Z. This effect I have often noticed .
It was too frequent to be accidental , but it did not occur invariably .
On the occasions when it happened , this negative effect disappeared after continued vibration .
Thus on taking a record of effect of continued vibration , there is produced a negative twitch , which is converted later into a positive deflection , just as in the curves of effect of light in fig. 17 .
Reversal produced by Continued Stimulation.\#151 ; After the maximum , effect is reached , if the vibration is still continued , there is a tendency for the curve to descend to the neutral line .
In the case of nickel I have even found the curve reversed , that is to say , there was a complete reversal of electromotive force .
I have described the various molecular effects produced by mechanical stimulus under varying conditions , and shown how very similar in every detail they are to the effects produced by electric radiation and light .
How striking these similarities are , will be seen from the following tabular statement and comparison of different curves .
9 .
Molecular Effects common to Electric , , and Mechanical Vibration .
1 .
The molecular effect produced may be detected either by conductivity or electromotive variation methods .
2 .
Substances when not overstrained exhibit recovery , but the recovery is delayed when there is overstrain .
3 .
Response modified by previous history , and the influence of the surrounding conditions .
Slight rise of temperature and annealing generally favourable to increased sensitiveness and quick recovery .
4 .
Under the action of electric radiation , light , and mechanical vibration , two opposite effects are exhibited ; by the conductivity variation method this is seen in the diminution or increase of resistance ; by the electromotive variation method we get positive or negative variation .
5 .
, In the curve of response , in all the above cases , the ascending portion is abrupt , whereas the fall during recovery is at first rapid , Prof. J. C. Bose .
[ Apr ; 18 , then comparatively slow , the curve of recovery being thus convex to the abscissa .
6 .
Under rapidly succeeding stimuli , there is a fusion of individual effects ; the curve rises to a maximum , when the force of restitution is kept balanced by the distorting force .
7 .
Sub-normal stimulus often produces a reverse effect .
Too long-continued disturbance produces , or tends to produce , a reversal .
8 .
Under peculiar moleculiar modification , the response is of opposite sign to the normal .
Continued stimulation converts abnormal to normal .
The response curve may thus exhibit , at the beginning , a negative twitch followed by the normal positive .
A few curves are selected from experiments already described , and given below , in order to illustrate graphically the remarkable similarities of response to different kinds of stimulus .
( See fig. 15 .
) They show how essentially similar are the molecular effects produced , though the modes of stimulation and the methods used for the detection of effects produced are so different .
[ 10 .
Effect of Light Vibration balanced by Mechanical I have hitherto spoken of the similarities of the radiation and mechanical strains , but have not yet said anything about their mutual relation .
It is known that in cases where electric radiation produces an increase of conductivity , mechanical vibration produces an opposite effect , i.e. , an increase of resistance .
It thus appeared that we have here an exhibition of two opposite molecular effects .
No definite con-elusion could be drawn from this , however , as the increase of resistance may have been due to the mechanical separation of the conducting particles .
I then thought of trying the effects of light and mechanical vibration in producing electromotive variation in a strain cell .
For this purpose I took a tin cell , and subjected one of the wires to the action of light and mechanical vibration alternately .
The upper curve of fig. 16 t S 0 Pig .
16.\#151 ; Effect of light and torsional vibration on a Tin cell .
Light makes the acted wire cuproid , torsional vibration makes it zincoid .
1901 .
] On tlu Strain Theory of Photographic Action .
185 shows the effect of light of a given intensity .
It will be noticed that fight makes the acted wire cuproid .
But the action of mechanical vibration ( see lower curve in same figure ) makes the acted wire zincoid , and after several trials I found that a vibration with an amplitude of 3 ' produced a series of curves similar , but of opposite sign , to those produced by light .
Thus mechanical vibration produced a molecular effect opposite to that of light .
I next allowed both the disturbing influences to act simultaneously on one of the wires , and the light action was then found to be exactly balanced by the action of mechanical vibration , an increase or diminution of either at once upsetting the balance .
The molecular effect of mechanical vibration thus appears , at least in the case of tin , to be opposite to that produced by light .
This may be the case in general : the exception might be when one of the two stimuli is normal and the other sub-normal .
" On the Strain Theory of Photographic Action .
" By Jagadjs Chunder Bose .
Communicated by Lord Bayleigh , F.B.S. Received April 18 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1901 .
Our uncertainty with regard to the correct theory of photographic action is due to great experimental difficulties in studying the problem .
As for instance :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) There is reason to believe that every substance is molecularly affected by radiation , but detection of change is rendered impossible by the imperfections of methods hitherto available , and also by the subsequent self-recovery of the substance in darkness .
The effects can be detected in a few cases only when the changes produced happen to be visible , or become visible on development .
( 2 .
) As regards direct chemical tests , if we take , for example , the case of AgCl , the quantity of radiation product is exceedingly small , and occurs in the presence of a very large amount of unchanged chloride .
The isolation of the minute traces of changed product has baffled all effort .
Again , there are produced various secondary reactions which complicate the phenomenon .
To arrive at a correct idea of the changes produced , it is necessary to measure the minute effects produced by radiation on the extremely thin layer\#151 ; perhaps only a few molecules deep\#151 ; of the sensitive substance .
In order to ascertain this , it is desirable to begin with the study of some elementary substance in which its effects are attended with few secondary complications .
And , lastly , it is necessary to have , some means of studying all the stages of change in a continuous

