1881 .
] On the Tendinous Intersection of the Digastric .
29 the permanent twist becomes greater and more difficult to reduce to zero .
If a wire which has internal strains is heated to redness , these strains almost entirely disappear , and I can thus reduce by heat a strain which a current had produced , but heat , whilst allowing of greater freedom and motion of its molecules , does not prevent an internal strain being set up , for whilst heat can reduce the wire to zero , after the passage of the current , the effects are increased .
If , during the time that the wire is at a red heat , the current is passed in the same time , and at the same instant we take off the current and the external heat , the wire when cold will be found to have a higher degree of strain than previously possible with the wire when cold .
We have seen that both mechanical vibrations and heat can reduce the wire to a zero , but its action is very slow , several minutes being required ; but the action of electricity in producing a permanent twist is exceedingly quick .
I have found that a single contact , whose duration was not more than 0*01 of a second , was equal to that of a prolonged contact of several minutes , and magnetism was equally as quick in reducing this strain to zero .
And it is the more remarkable when we consider the very great mechanical force required by torsion of the wire to untwist the strain produced in an instant of time by electricity .
The results I have given are those obtained upon soft iron wires of millim. , but I hare experimented with different sizes up to 3 millims. diameter .
The results with 1 millim. diameter were quite as evident as the millim. , but on the 3 millim. wire the strain was reduced to 25 ' instead of 50 ' , owing to the extreme rapidity and low electrical resistance compared with my small battery wires .
On a telegraph line , the wire of which is almost entirely of iron , there must be a very great strain set up , which , however , would remain a constant , except where reversed currents are used , and in this case a constant movement of the molecules of the wire must be the result .
I believe it to be most important that we should determine , as far as we can by experimental research , the nature of all molecular changes produced by electricity and magnetism , and in this belief 1 am happy in being able to bring this paper before the Royal Society .
III .
" On the Tendinous Intersection of the Digastric .
" By G. E. Dobson , M.A. , M.B. Communicated by Professor J. D. Macdonald , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 14 , 1881 .
The digastric muscle in man and in many other mammals consists as is well known , of an anterior and a posterior portion , united by a 5ft .
Mr. ( j. E. Dobson .
[ Mar. 31 , tendon , or having their limits defined by an intermediate tendinous intersection .
In most mammals , however , this tendinous intersection is either very feebly defined , or it is altogether absent .
What , then , is its mCanihg when present , and on what does its relative development depend ?
, The distinct tendon which exists between the anterior and posterior bellies of the digastric in man and in other might reasonably be supposed to be produced by tension from the aponeurotic loop , which attaches it to the greater cornu of the hyoid bone -$ but in many Species of other o\#165 ; d\lt ; 5rs a tendon or tendinous intersection is found where the connexion of ; this muscle with the hyoid bone is either very feeble , or distributed equally over the whole extent of its anterior belly , or dbsolete ; and in which , moreover , the direction of t'hd intersection , where it traverses the substance of the muscle , is almostnVvariably oblique* and directed downwards , forwards , and inwards ih direction leading from and not towards the hyoid .
The true significance of the tendinous intersection is to be found , as I shall endeavour to show , in the remarkable form assumed by the anterior ' belly of the muscle in certain species .
While engaged in the dissection of a specimen of that rare mammal Gynlnura rafflesii , t I was much struck by the peculiar form of the anterior belly of the digastric .
About the middle of the muscle , at its narrowest part , it is traversed by an oblique tendinous intersection more marked internally , arising from the upper margin , which is continued inwards and slightly forwards from its lower and internal margin as a tendinous band , across the mylo-hyoid muscle , to unite in front of the hyoid bone with the corresponding band from the opposite side .
From the tendinous raphe thus formed , muscular fibres arise , which , 'extending forwards and inwards , cover the anterior three-fourths of the mylo-hyoid and part of the genio-hyoid muscles , and passing above the margins of the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles of opposite sides , are inserted with them and for some distance in front of them , into the rami of the mandible .
This horizontal muscular expansion , which takes its origin thus from the tendinous intersection and its median continuation , might also be described as a deep division of the anterior belly of .
the muscle , commencing at the tendinous intersection , and uniting with its fellow of the opposite side along the middle line between the jaws .
Its * In some species it is nearly 'straight , but this does not 'depeiid on attachment to the greater cornu of the hyoid bone , as I purpose showing further on .
f I owe the opportunity which has been afforded me of examining the anatomy of this rare species to the kindness of Mr. T. Bfcmford , F.R.S. , whom I have also to thank for many specimens of Oriental Insectivora , which have furnished me with much valuable material in working out my systematic and anatomical monograph of the Insectivora .
1881 .
] On the Tendinous Intersection of the Digastric.81 posterior margin , " the tendinous raphe , above described , is concave^ quite free from the ' hyoid bone , but attached to a fascial aponeurosis ; which passes backwards-over it and the sterno-hyoid muscles .
On removing this muscular expansion , the mylo-hyoid muscles are found beneath , very thin , not extending half the distance between the hyoid bone and the symphysis menti .
In Tupaid elliotithe anterior bellies of the digastric also unite in the middle line between the jaws , but there is no separate superficial external lamina in direct continuation with the posterior belly as in Gymnurarrafflesiu -The 'intersecting tendon is ' narrower but more distinct , arises as in-that species from the upper margin of the muscle* and is continued downwards , forwards , and inwards to unite with the corresponding tendon from the opposite side across the mylo-hyoid , precisely as in G. rafflesii ; but , unlike its condition in that species ' it is closely adhetent to the muscle on which it lies , and is connected by a strong fibrous aponeurosis with the body of the hyoid bone , whild* the greater-cornu'receives also some 'tendinous fibres frbm the lower margin of the posterior-belly .
The united anterior bellies pass forwards !
taking their origin from the tendinous raphe , and , separating slightly* near the symphysis , are inserted into the rami of the mandible , and* by a fibrous aponeurosis into the symphyseal angle .
The mylo-hyoid muscles , nearly wholly concealed by them , are , as in G. rafflesii , fCebly developed , and do not extend more than half their length .
In Chiromys madagascariensis , the anterior bellies of the digastric ?
muscles are united between the jaws , *'but in other Lemuroids , as also in man , they'are separate , each consisting of " two thick fleshy bellies with a long and strong median tendon."f In Loris " I found a strongly marked oblique tendinous intersection ( which has been described * as a rudimentary tendon ) , J connected by a fibrous aponeprosis-with the greater cornu of the hyoid bone and also with ' the surface of the mylo-hyoid in front of it , so that here we have5 evidently a case of oblique tendinous intersection passing into tendon .
In E. macrocephalus and in E. minor , among the Ghiroptera , I found the anterior bellies double , \#166 ; the deep lamina united and forming a horizontal tnusoular expansion extending backwards even behind the ' hyoid bone , but wholly unconnected with it , its posterior margin being connected laterally with the 'tendinous , intersection and medially with a fascial aponeurosis loosely covering the sterno-hyoid muscles .
It is especially interesting to note-that here , where union of the muscles extends so far backwards , the tendinous intersection is vertical , or nearly feo , and the direction of the fibres of the deep or * Owen , " Trans. Zool. Soc. , " v , p. 48 .
t Murie and Mivart , " Trans. Zool. Soc. , " vii , p. 18 .
+ By Van der Kolk and Yrolik , referred to by Murie and Mivart , loc. cit. Mr. G. E. Dobson .
[ Mar. -31 , internal lamina transverse , while those of the superficial external part spring from it at right angles to its direction and pass forwards to their insertion into the jaw at a short distance in front of their origin .
Here then we have a vertical tendinous intersection unconnected with the hyoid bone .
The mylo-hyoids are altogether absent , their places and part of their function being evidently taken by the united digastrics , which extend almost the whole length of the jaws ; while their action on the hyoid is performed by the greatly developed geniohyoid muscles .
In the much larger but externally very similar species , * phorus franqueti , the anterior bellies of the digastrics are single and not united between the rami of the mandible , and the mylo-hyoids are present and well developed ; the tendinous intersection described above is , nevertheless , visible , and though much less defined than in E. minor , occupies precisely the same relative position , and has the same vertical direction .
In Herpestes nipalensis the digastrics are very large and united between the jaws ; the tendinous intersection is nearly vertical and is continued inwards to unite with the corresponding band from the opposite side slightly behind the hyoid bone .
The raphe thus formed is connected with the fascia covering the sterno-hyoid muscles ; and the deep surface of the united bellies is inseparably united , along the middle line , with the very feebly developed mylo-hyoids which they conceal altogether .
In man , as an anomaly , the fibres of the two anterior bellies have been found blended with each other , and expanded into a muscular plane with considerable attachment to the jaws ; + or the anterior belly has been found double , the second part uniting with its fellow in a median raphe below the chin , overlapping the mylo-hyoid muscle ; J or the tendon of intersection not unfrequently is continued from one side across to the other , forming a zone immediately above the hyoid bone , to the body of which it is tied down by fibrous tissue ; from the upper surface of this the anterior bellies arise , either a , distinct , or j8 , more rarely inseparable^ It may be observed that this last described condition is precisely that of the same muscles in Tupaia and is extremely interesting , as evidently indicating reversion to a state of the muscle , probably once normal in ancient mammalian types , and which is now represented in man and most other mammals by a fascial layer only\#151 ; the supra-hyoid aponeurosis\#151 ; which , springing from the tendons of the * * * S * All the species of this genus agree very closely in certain external characters .
( See " Catal. Chiropt .
Brit. Mus. , " p. 5 .
) f Fleischmann , quoted by McWliinnie , " Lond. Med. Gaz .
, " xxxvii , p. 186 .
+ Wood , quoted by Macalister , " Trans. Boy .
Irish Acad. , " xxv , p. 33 .
S Macalister , Inc. cit. 1881 .
] On the Tendinous Intersection of the Digastric .
digastric muscles of opposite sides , extends between their anterior bellies , covering the mylo-hyoid and part of the genio-hyoid muscles , as the similarly placed muscular expansion in and in In the species of the genus Erinac ( the only other genus included with Gymnura in the family , a superficial oblique tendinous intersection occupies precisely the same position as in Gymnura , but is much less developed ; it extends from the upper margin of the muscle ( which is nearly of the same calibre from its origin to its insertion ) , appearing on both surfaces as an oblique tendinous inscription , and on reaching its lower margin is continued inwards into a fascial expansion extending between the anterior bellies of the muscles of opposite sides , covering the mylo-hyoid muscle , but no muscular fibres arise from it , as in Gymnura .
In ecaudatus and Eemicentetes madagascariensis , in Pteropus edulis and medius , and probably in all the species of that genus , in Epomophorus ( referred to above ) , in Megaderma lyra , in Phoca communis , and in Gavia aperea , for instance , though the fascial expansion may be either absent or feebly marked , the transverse tendinous inscription is traceable ' , although its presence in some , as in Gentetes ecaudatus , is indicated only by a. faint superficial oblique line surrounding the muscle in the usual position.* In these species , in which the anterior bellies of the digastrics are not expanded and united between the jaws , the mylohyoid muscles are well developed .
The peculiar development of the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles in the species referred to above , and the relations between it and the tendinous intersection , demonstrate that whatever form this intersection may assume , whether that of a rounded tendon , tendinous band traversing the substance of the muscle , or feeble superficial tendinous inscription , it has evidently been originally developed in ancestral forms in the same manner , namely , as the point of attachment of a tendinous raphe extending inwards from the digastrics of opposite sides , and giving a fixed point from which the greatly expanded internal laminae of their anterior bellies take their origin .
In most species of mammals the anterior bellies are no longer united between the jaws , but the presence in many of a transverse tendinous intersection or inscription still indicates their original connexion .
While it appears evident that the original form and relations of the tendinous intersection of the digastric , if not in all mammals , at least * Professor Humphry thus describes it in Phoca communis and in aperea :\#151 ; " Near its middle it presented in the seal a superficial transverse tendinous division which is probably the representative of the more distinct tendinous division in man in the latter species , " 'where the muscle passes further forwards nearer to the symphisis , the tendinous division is still more marked , involving the greater number of the fibres , yet the muscle has nearly a straight course from its origin to its insertion."\#151 ; " Journ. Anat .
Phys. , " ii , p. 320 .
VOL. XXXII .
D On the Tendinous Intersection of the Digastric .
[ Mar. 31 , in all those now showing a trace of tendinous inscription in that muscle , were such as we still find it in Gymnura and minor , its modified form or apparent total absence in most species remains to be accounted for .
The leading modifications of the muscle , including what I consider its primary form , may be arranged as follows :\#151 ; A. With the anterior bellies united across the space between the rami of the mandible , the mylo-hyoid muscles feeble or absent .
a. Anterior belly double .
Ex. , Gymnura .
h. Anterior belly single .
Ex. , Tupaia .
B. With the anterior bellies separate , scarcely or not exceeding the posterior in calibre .
c. Tendinous intersection distinct .
Ex. , Homo .
d. Tendinous intersection rudimentary .
Ex. , e. Tendinous intersection absent .
Ex. , Ganis .
And with respect to its attachments to the hyoid bone :\#151 ; C. Connected by ligament or by tendinous fibres with the hyoid bone .
Ex. , Homo , Tupaia .
D. Unconnected .
Ex. , Ganis , Gymnura .
Where the digastric is directly connected by ligament with the greater cornu of the hyoid bone , as in man , other Primates , and the Bodentia , tension on the middle of the muscular mass would tend to the disappearance of the muscular fibres in the part directly acted upon , and so the tendinous intersection would alone remain forming a tendon ; * where , on the other hand , as in the dog and most other mammals , there is no such connexion , or the connexion is by fascial aponeurosis equally distributed between the sides of the anterior bellies of the muscles and the hyoid bone , as in Hrinaceus , the character of the digastric would be mainly muscular throughout .
Now , the special development of the central tendon , or its absence , appears to me to be directly related to the attitude of the head of the animal with respect to its body when engaged in swallowing its food .
In the Primates , in most of the Bodentia , and in the arboreal Insectivora , the food is swallowed while the body is in the erect or semi-erect posture , and the head being bent forwards the cavity of the mouth is at right angles with the oesophagus.- ) " In this position the mylo-hyoid and genio-hyoid muscles are relaxed , and cannot act efficiently in drawing the hyoid bone upwards and forwards , so as to allow the masticated mass of food to pass into the oesophagus ; this duty , therefore , partly devolves on the * The intermediate condition is well seen in Loris gracilis and in Tupaia as described above .
f The attitude of the head with respect to the body is of course mainly connected with the position of the foramen magnum , and the latter with the development of the brain .
Dr. H. E. Roscoe .
on 1881 .
] digastric muscles , and the strain on their central parts , as explained above , leads to the disappearance of muscular fibre in the neighbourhood of the tendinous insertion , which accordingly becomes a tendon uniting two fleshy bellies .
On the other hand , in most of the Mammalia , the usual attitude is prone , and the cavity of the mouth , when the food is being swallowed , is in a line with the oesophagus , or nearly so ; in such a position the mylo-hyoid and genio-hyoid muscles can act effectively in elevating and drawing the hyoid bone forwards , and deglutition is effected without the aid of the digastric muscles , which are accordingly simple and unconnected with the hyoid , as in the dog ; * or , if intersected , the tendinous band is either the origin of a raphe continued inwards , as described in Gynmura and Epomophorus ( which may be , as in these genera , wholly unconnected with the hyoid ) , or the rudiment of such in an ancestral form .
IV ) " Note on Protagon .
" By Henry E. Roscoe , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1881 .
In his communication to the Royal Society of January 6th last , on the subject of the presence or absence of potassium in protagon , Dr. Thudichum endeavours to raise an entirely false issue .
The question I had to decide was not whether protagon contains a trace of potassium , but whether , to quote Dr. Thudichum 's own words , it contains " no less than 0'76 per cent , of potassium .
" In the first instance I endeavoured to settle this matter by spectroscopic investigation , and employed two samples of protagon which had been prepared under Dr. Gamgee 's direction in the course of the research of which he communicated the results to the Royal Society .
In one of these samples , which had been four times crystallized , I was unable to detect any potassium ; the quantity of the body at my disposal was however small , as the rest of the specimen had been employed in previous work , and Dr. Gamgee placed in my hands a large sample of protagon only twice crystallized , which had been prepared by Dr. Blankenhorn under his direction , and it was an analysis of this latter specimen which I communicated to the Royal Society .
As stated , I estimated by spectroscopic means the amount of potassium present in 1 grm. of the substance to be of a milligram , that is , 0'005 per cent. To these observations of mine , Dr. Thudichum replied by a paper entitled " On the Modifications of the Spectrum of Potassium which are effected by the presence of Phosphoric Acid , and on the Inorganic * The difficulty experienced by a dog in swallowing when the head is bent forwards is well known to every one who has seen one attempting to swallow even a moderate sized morsel when seated erect in the familiar attitude known as " begging .
"

