]\gt ; [ 199 ] .
Similarity of Motion in Relation to the Surface Friction of Fluids .
T. E. STANTON and J. .
PANNELL .
Communicated by Dr. R. T. ( From the National ) Received December 12 , 1913 , \mdash ; Re January 29 , 1914 .
THE laws of the surface friction of fluids have formed the subject of many important investigations during the last 100 years , among which may be mentioned the work of POISEUILLE , DARCY and OSBORNE REYNOLDS on the friction of water flowing in pipes , that of WILLIAM FROUDE on the resistance of thin plates towed in water , and the corresponding experiments of ZAHM on flat plates in a current of air .
Researches in this field have also been carried out by BRIX , STOCKALPER , MALLOCK , COKER , GEBERS , BRIGHTMORE , GRINDLEY and GIBSON , and others .
As a result , the effect on the resistance , of the dimensions of the body over whose surface the fluid moves , and of the velocity of flow , are tolerably well known for the particular fluid and character of motion observed .
In the case of the surface friction of water in pipes , the researches of OSBORNE REYNOLDS have demonstrated the existence of similar motions in pipes of different dimensions , but , as far as the authors are aware , no systematic series of experiments appears to have been made for the purpose of establishing a general relation which would be applicable to all fluids and conditions of flow , ] though the existence of such relationships for different aspects of the problem were predicted as a consequence of the laws of motion by STOKES in by HELMHOLTZ in 1878 , by OSBORN REYNOLDS in by Lord RAYLEIGHSII in 1899 and 1909 , and as has been pointed out by Sir GEOBGE GREENHILL , were foreshadowed by NEWTON in Proposition 32 , Book II .
, of the ' Principia .
' The object of the present paper is to furnish evidence confirming the existerlce , * STOKES , ' Mathematical and Physical Papers , ' vol. III .
, p. 17 .
HELMHOLTZ , ' Wissenschaftliche Abhandlungen , ' vol. I. : p. 158 .
'Phil .
Trans. Roy .
Soc 1883 , p. 935 .
S 'Phil .
Mag 1899 , p. 321 .
Committee for Aeronautics , Report , ' 1909-10 , p. 38 .
( 513 ) Publis 6oparate , 1914 .
MESSRS .
T. E. STANTON AND J. R. PANNELL ON SIMILARITy OF under certain conditions , of the similarity in motions of fluids of widely differing viscosities and densities which has been predicted , and further by extending observations through a range in the velocity of flow which has not hitherto been attempted to investigate the limits of accuracy of the generally accepted used in calculations of surface friction .
Apart from the researches on similarity of motion of fluids , which have been progress in the Aeronautical Department of the National Physical Laboratory during the four last years , the only previous experimental investigation on the subject , as far as the authors are aware , has been that of OSBORNE REYNOLDS , to which a brief reference may be made .
By the of colouring matter into water flowing through glass tubes REYNOLDS showed that the motion was stream-line or lamellar in character at low values of the velocity of flow , and eddying or sinuous at high velocities , and that the change from lamellar motion to eddying motion took place suddenly at a definite , value of the velocity ( called the critical velocity ) , the value of which was inversely proportional to the diameter of the tube and directly proportional to the kinematical viscosity of the water .
Expressing this in symbols , if diameter of the pipe , critical velocity , * coefficient of viscosity of the water , density of the water , kinematical viscosity of the water , rate of fall of pressure along the pipe .
REYNOLDS'S discovery was that for geometrically similar tubes was constant .
Further , on making a series of observations of the values of over as large a range in the velocity of flow as possible in ] similar pipes of different diameters , found that for all conditions of flow , stream line or eddying , when the values of were identical the corresponding values of were identical .
It appeared , therefore , that the general law of resistance could be expressed by the equation .
( 1 ) rhroughout the present paper the symbol is used to denote the mean velocity of flow through the pipe .
Where reference is made to the value of the velocity at the axis of the pipe this is denoted by MOTION IN LATION TO THE SURFACE FRICTION OF FLUIDS .
Comparing this equation with the theoretical value of for stream-line motion , i.e. , it will be seen that under conditions of stream-line motion For velocities above the criticalvalue , and as high as could be carried in his apparatus , REYNOLDS considered that the function on the right-hand side of the equation could be expressed by the relation where has a value which is constant for any given pipe , but may vary from to 2 according to the roughness of the surface .
As will be seen later , this conclusion has not been verified in the present experiments , which show definitely that when range in speed is considerable the index law fails to represent the results .
It has been shown by Lord RAYLEIGH that by the Principle of Dynamical Similarity the relation expressed by equation ( 1 ) is only a particular case of a general law of resistance of bodies immersed in fluids moving relatively to them , under the assumption that this resistance depends only on the linear dimensions of the body on the velocity , density , and kinematical viscosity of the fluid .
This relation may be expressed as , . . . . .
( 2 ) whereR is the resistance per unit area and is a function of the one variable From the foregoing it appears that similarity of motion in fluids at constant values of the variable will exist , provided the surfaces relative to which the fluids moye are geometrically similar , which similarity , as Lord EIGH has pointed out , must extend to those irregularities in the surfaces which constitute .
In view of the practical value of the ability to apply this principle to the prediction of the resistance of aircraft from experiments 011 models , experimental of the conditions under which ilar motions can be produced under practical conditiolts becomes of considerable importance , and during the last three accuracy of the assumptions made in the derivation of equation ( 2 ) has been tested at the Nutional Physical Laboratory under varying conditions .
By the use of matter to reveal the eddy systems at the back of similar inclined plates in streams of air and water , photographs of the systems existing in the two fluids when the value was the same for each , have been obtained , and their comparison has reyealed a remarkable similarity in the motions .
* For the case of surface frictiol , experinnents * Report of Advisory Committee for Aeronautics , ' 1911-12 , p. 97 .
VOL. CCXIV.\mdash ; A. 2 have been made on pipes whose surfaces were smooth or artificially roughened so that the amount of the friction was more than doubled .
By making observations on the same pipe first with air flowing through it and then with water at identical values of it was found that the corresponding values of were also identical both for the smooth pipe and for the rou one .
* Comparisons have also been made between the resistances of models of dirigible balloons made to different scales , in one case when exposed to a current of air and in the other case when towed in an experimental water tank , and results confirmatory of the theory have been obtained .
The experiments described in the present paper form a continuation of the investigation with reference to surface friction , so as to include the highest range in the velocities of flow , the dimensions of the surfaces , and in the nature of the fluids used , as could be conveniently obtained .
It will be realised that in order to vary the conditions to the extent desired , and to measure the resistances with the requisite accuracy , the research was practically limited to observations on the resistance to the flow of fluids in pipes .
Adopting this method of working , the velocities of flow which have been obtained have ranged from 30 to 6000 cm .
per second in pipes varying from to cm .
in eter .
The fluids used in the majority of the experiments have been and water .
The physical properties of these are so widely different that observations on others are hardly necessary , but as a matter of interest some experiments on thick oils are included .
For very accurate comparison the surfaces of the tubes should have been precisely cally similar , as regards roughness , but as this condition could not be fulfilled , the experiments were all made on commercially smooth-drawn brass pipes .
From the general agreenlent of the results of different pipes it does not appear that slight regularities in this respect have a marked effect on the resistance within the range of diameters here used .
Nature of the Observations in the Experiments .
To set up the state of motion required the experimental pipe was , in the majority of cases , connected to a centrifugal or pump , driven by an electric motor and provided with speed-regulating devices by means of which the flow of the fluid could be nlaintained constant throughout the duration of any particular experiment .
The length of\ldquo ; leading in\ldquo ; pipe , of the same diameter as the experimental portion , through which the fluid passed before any observations of its velocity or pressure were made , varied frol1l 90 to 140 diameters , as it was considered that this length was sufficient both to enable any irregularities in the distribution of velocity to die away , or any motion at the inlet to break up , before the measurements were taken .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 85 , p. 366 .
MOTION IN RELATION TO THE SURFACE FRICTION OF FLUIDS .
To measure the velocity of the current , one of two.methods was used according to convenience .
By one method the total quantity of fluid passing through the pipe in a given time was either weighed directly , or passed through a water-meter or a gasholder , which had been designed for the purpose of the experiments and carefully calibrated .
By the other method the velocity at the axis of the pipe was estimated by measuring the difference of pressure between that in a small Pitot tube facing the current and placed in the axis of the pipe and that in a small hole in the wall of the pipe .
As is now known*this pressure difference is accurately , and from this relation the speed at the axis was determined .
The mean flow was then calculated from the known ratio of the mean speed to the speed at the axis ; an investigation into which forms part of the present paper .
To determine the amount of th .
surface iction two small holes were made in the walls of the experimental portion of the pipe , one at each extremity , at a known distance apart , and connected to a tilting manometer .
The length of this portion varied in different pipes from 20 to 50 diameters , according to the resistance to be measured .
In this the fall of pressure along a given length of the pipe was determined , from the known diameter of the pipe the surface friction per unit area was calculated .
The form of tilting manometer used for the estimation of both the surface friction and the axial velocity , is that devised by Dr. A. P. CHATTOCK and has been previously described .
For the purpose of the present paper it is sufficient to state that in this manometer a pressure difference of the order of mm. of water can easily be detected , which is well within the limits of sensitivity required in these experiments .
As the fall of pressure in these pipes varied from to 150,000 mm. of water , other manometers were required for the higher pressures , and for this purpose water or mercury -tubes were used for the intermediate pressures , and Bourdon pressure gau ges for the highest pressures .
The Relation between the Mean Velocity of Flow th Velocity the Axis in , Tubes of .
Cross Section .
In the case of the " " stream-line\ldquo ; motion of a viscous fluid through a tube , to which the ordinary equations of motions apply , it appears both from theory and direct experiment that the ratio of the mean velocity over the section to the velocity at the axis is .
For the case ofeddying flow the value of this ratio has been investigated by water and by THRELFALLS for air .
It might be inferred from the conditions of similarity of flow discussed above , that the ratio in question would be a function of the ratio , and in a paper on the Mechanical Viscosity of Fluids read * Report of Advisory Committee for Aeronautics , ' 1912-13 .
'Proc .
Inst. Civil Engineers , ' December , 1903 , and ' Engineering , ' September , 1913 .
'Comptes Rendus de l'Acade'mie des Sciences , ' vol. 38 .
S 'Proc .
Inst. Mechanical Engineers , ' 1904 , p. 280 .
before Society in the results of experiments on the radial variation of the velocity of air flowing through smooth brass pipes of and cm .
diameter were given , showing that the velocity distribution curves were only identical when the values of the ratio were identical .
It was also found that the distribution of velocity was only independent of the values of when the surfaces of the pipes were so hened that the resistance varied as the square of the velocity .
On examining the results of DARCY and THRELFALL no very satisfactory evidence of a variation of the ratio with variations of was forthcoming .
This may be due to the fact that THRELFALL'S observations are all included in a ran ge of of from 66,000 to 300,000 , and as the variation in the ratio may be assumed to be small , the difference between the results would not be detected very easily , and also to the possibility that DARCY'S observations were made in a region .
over which the curve showing the variation of ratio with was nearly horizontal .
As an accurate determination of the ratio was essential for many of the proposed friction experiments it was decided to make an extensive series of observations with a view to tracing the variation of the ratio from its value below the critical value of the ratio ) to as high a value as possible .
As the use of an accurately calibrated gas holder was available it was possible to make the determination for the case of air flow as well as for water flow .
The pipes .
used were and cm .
in diameter , and the method of estimating the velocity at the axis was that previously described .
It may be mentioned that in this part of the work comparatively small errors in observation would have obscured the effect to be investigated , as its whole amount in the region of eddying flow is of the order of 5 per cent. , so that the greatest care and accuracy was necessary .
The calculated values of the ratio of mean velocity to the velocity at the axis are plotted in fig. 1 as ordinates with the corresponding values of as abscissae .
The values of the velocity at the axis have been adopted merely for convenience in bhe use of the curve to determine rates of discharge from a pips by means of a single observation at the axis , and experience bas shown that in this work a better graphical representation of the results is achieved by using a logarithmic scale for plotting the values of than by using a simple one .
The observations were continued for smaller and smaller values of until stream-line motion was set up , below which it was not considered necessary to go .
The values of the calculated ratios are tabulated in Table I. It will be seen from the mean curve drawn through the plotted points in fig. 1 that the value of the ratio ranges from at the critical value of the speed , i.e. , at , to at the value .
For the comparison of these results with those obtained by other experimenters the mean curve through the National Physical Laboratory results is reproduced in fig. 2 , in which the results of DARCY and THRELFALL are plotted .
It will be noticed that the curve passes through two of THRELFALL'S points whereas * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , p. 366 .
the third is not in agreement .
It is possible that this may be due to the third pipe being rougher in surface than the others , as it has been shown by direct observation of distribution of velocity in rough and smooth pipes at the National Physical Laboratory*that the ratio of mean speed to maximum speed in a rough pipe is less than that in a smooth one .
The interpretation of results is also difficult for the same reason .
According to the determinations of the frictional resistances of these cast-iron pipes given by DARCY , their surfaces arc all appreciably rougher than those used in the present experimen ts , so that the ratio in the case of the former should be less than for the latter , ) no direct evidence of this is obtained the plotted results .
In fig. 1 is also plotted the ratio ined by direct integration from the radial distribution of velocity in a cm .
pipe , which agrees well with the other results .
Friction xperiments .
The ratio of the mean velocity to the velocity at the axis having been determined , it was possible to complete the tions of friction for those cases in which no other of the discharge was available .
scope of the experiments will be from the table on p. 207 in which the dimensions of the pipes , and the methods of setting up the flow and estimating the velocity and friction per unit area stated .
The actual values of the mean velocity of flow in centimctres per second and the surface friction in dynes per square centimetre of the are given in the tables at the of the paper together with the values of the ratio ?
( Tables II .
and III The method of the results is that , suggested by Lord RAYLEIGH , of plotting points whose ordinates are the values of and abscissae the corresponding values of ) , with the previously stated tiou that the arithms of are takell as tlJe abscissae instead of the actual values .
In this way it has been found possible to include all the results a reasonable length of diagram , and at the same time to show the region of the change eddying to stream-line motion on a fairly open scale .
This has been done in fig. 3 .
The extension of the experiments for values of ) greater than 115,000 , which was the maximum attainable with the appliances available at the National Physical Laboratory , has been made possible by the kindness of Mr. Edward B. Ellington , Engineer of the London Hydraulic Power Supply Company , who has allowed the authors to co1mect their experimental pipes to the high-pressure water main at the Grosvenor Road Pumping Station .
In this way it has been found possible to reach velocities of 3200 cm .
per second in the cm .
diameter pipe , 5250 cm .
per second in the cm .
pipe , and 5600 cm .
per second in the cm .
pipe .
The maximum value of ) attained was 480,000 .
* .
Soc. Proc , vol. 85 , p. 371 .
MOTION IN RELATION TO THE SURFACE FRICTION OF FLUIDS .
EXPERIMENTS on Surface Friction .
Coming to the chief features of interest in the curves of ) it be noticed that the inclination to the horizontal becomes gradually less as of increases , indicating the law of resistance tends to becolne one in which the friction varies as the square of the ocity and fore i of dimensions and temperatur of the fluid .
At what of ) this becomes ately the case the data available not sufficient to } ) redict .
As the value of diminishes the corresponding values of at an increasing rate , a , for pipes of the sn moothness used in these experiments , of when is equal to 2500 npproximately .
the whole of this range of irom 2500 to 470,000 , with the exception of a few individual determinations duc possibly to errors of observation , the of for either fluid , in any of the four pipes , from its mean value does not exceed per cent. , so that the similarity of the motions over.this range is fully demonstrated .
Below there is a sudden fall in the value of the ordinate showing that a change in the character of the motion is taking place\mdash ; a change which is revealed to the observer by the rapid fluctuations which take place in the resistance and render accurate determinations practically impossible .
It appears that the fluctuations are due to the steepness of the curve in this region , so that small fluctuations of speeds of flow which would produce no appreciable effect on the resistance when the motion was fully eddying , cause such a relatively large change in the resistance that steady readings cannot be obtained .
When this fall in the value of the ordinate occurs , it will be seen that a relatively small reduction in the value of the abscissae brings all the plotted points on the theoretical curve for stream-line resistance .
As the theory of this type of motion is well known and its results have been constantly checked by observations of the resistance , it has not been considered necessary in the case of the air and water experiments to extend the curve further back than to values corresponding to It will be noticed from the results plotted in fig. 3 that the values of at which the motion changes from sinuous to stream-line in character is practically constant for all the pipes except the smallest diameter ) .
In the case of this small pipe , and to a much smaller but perceptible degree in the and cm .
pipes , it was found that , both for air and water , under the conditions of admission to the pipe , the stream-line motion tended to persist when the critical ( 2500 ) value of had been exceeded , until at some value of depending on the nature of the orifice and the amount of disturbance of the air at the inlet and possibly other factors the value of suddenly rose to the value attained in the other pipes under similar conditions .
In explanation of the apparently anomalous behaviour of this small pipe it may be recalled that ) defined two critica ] velocities in pipes .
One is the velocity at which a fluid , which enters a pipe in a high state of turbulence , passes from eddying motion to stream-line motion , and which is well defined in all the pipes used in these experiments except the small one under discussion .
The other refers to case in which a perfectly undisturbed fluid enters a pipe in stream-line motion which persists until , with considerable care , a velocity of about seven times that of the fornler critical velocity can be reached before it breaks down into eddying motion .
If disturbances are present this breakdown occurs earlier .
It is evident that the behaviour of the small pipe in these experiments is analogous to second case of critical velocity mentioned by , and that the turbulence existing outside the orifice to this pipe was not sufficiently violent to correspond to turbulent flow , whereas in the case of the other pipes it was so .
Further confirmation of this was found in the fact that by fitting a bell mouth-piece rIOA uo SIII NSIoaso Xq eJni ) $ !
$S ?
[ I$ qqnop ou SJBadde IHli eJnoOB 8IqISSod e O$ dn AOIf 5 UIOJff I $0IJ1$ pooB usas 4fIS00S1 poq pasn sn$BJY ?
dduIod po pasn svq Xq seq pun .H$ $ onoo lflS00S1 9 I os dmnd assodmI puno5 $1 uo uIIJadxa a eq S11 dmoo u po !
Xq UIOOJ oq$ pua uado UALBJI ) SIHt I $1ml Xq $ ] ; q } aq$ 0 608 VdUns EHI OJi not large , viz. , from ( the critical velocity ) to 469 cm .
per second in the cm .
pipe , and from 23 ( the critical velocity ) to 705 cm .
per second in the cm .
pipe , and further , that the difficulties in maintaining a uniform speed in these experiments , owing to the fact that the water was drawn direct from the Manchester mains , were such as to render any small variation from the index law , such as would exist over such ranges of speeds , almost impossible to detect .
In FROUDE'S experiments*on towing flat Mards the range in speed was not greater than from 50 to 500 cm .
per second , so that no deviation would be apparent .
In the case of the present experiments tlJe results for the cm .
pipe were taken and according to REYNOLDS'S method , the logarithms of the friction and velocity from to cm .
per second were carefully plotted .
The points so obtained were found to lie on a straight line whose slope was to 1 .
Assuming a law of resistance , where had this value , was determined from the low speed observations used for the determination of and a series of values of were calculated up to a speed of 3200 cm .
per second .
Plotting these values and those actually obtained in the experiments the two in fig. 4 were obtained , which it will be seen that by the use of the index law the resistance is underestimated by 5 per cent. at .
Report , ' 1872 , p. 118 .
MOTION IN RELATION TO THE SURFACE FRICTION OF FLUIDS .
1000 cm .
per second , by per cent. at 2000 cm .
per second , and by 15 per 3000 cm .
per second .
This , of course , is extreme case , since if the intermediate speed observations had been taken for the determination of , a higher value would have been obtained and the error in the use of the index law at the highest velocities would have been much less .
In order to show the manner of variation of throughout the whole range of velocities obtained , the values of have been determined by the Reynolds method at four different stages and are as follows:\mdash ; Velocity in centimetres per second 58 .
258 .
900 .
2250 .
Value of nfrom plotting . . . .
Similar results showing a gradual increase in the value of the velocity increases have been obtained by the reduction of the observations for the and cm .
pipes , and it may therefore be taken as fully demonstrated that an index law for surface friction cannot be- devised which will express the facts with any accuracy , except over a comparatively smadl ange in the value of ) .
It will be ) vious t this factor must bo borne in mind in the skin friction of large bodies moving in a fluid from observations on small-scale models moved in the same fluid .
The Comparison of the liesults with those of evious E As the method of representing the results of the surface friction experiments described in this paper is somewhat novel , it has been considered advisable to reduce the observations of some well-known previous experimenters , in a similar , and to plot them all on the same diagram for the purpose of comparison .
only experiments on pipes whose roughness was comparable with the ones used by the authors , those chosen for reduction are as follows:\mdash ; Unfortunately in some of these observations the temperature has not been recorded so that the values of calculated are only approximate .
The reduced results have been plotted in fig. 5 where , for convenience of comparison , the limits of the results of the present experiments have been indicated by broken lines .
In the case of DARCY'S results the points referring to the two lead pipes and the bitumen-covered pipes of and cm .
diameter have been taken as forming one group with approximately the same surface smoothness and a line has been drawn through their mean position .
This line shows the same characteristics as the curve of the present experiments , except that the surface is somewhat rougher .
The bitumen-covered pipe of cm .
diameter had evidently a considerably rougher surface , but otherwise the distribution of the points are what would be expected .
For REYNOLDS'S experiments on the two lead pipes a mean line has also been drawn which indicates a lower resistance than that found in the pipes used for the present experiments , but the character of the curve and the position of the critical point are identical with those now found .
From the point of view of comparison with the present observations neither of the above sets of experiments are so satisfactory as those of SAPH and SCnODER , *since the nature of the surfaces in the two researches was probably identical .
The plottings of these , with a very few exceptions , lie within the limits of the present experiments of which they form an excellent check .
The whole series of these experiments include observations on pipes of and diameter , of which only the and cm .
have been reduced for plotting in fig. 5 .
For the determination of the frictional resistance in the case of the flow of air the amount of reliable data appears to be very small .
The six experiments of Dr. BRIX on iron pipes of , and cm .
diameter are in fair agreement with the present results , but the interpretation of the series of observations on the cm .
lead pipe is difficult as the form of the curve appears to indicate that the conditions are those of stream-line ilow .
The only explanation which can be suggested is that the diameter of the pipe was over-estimated by some 15 per cent. , in which case the curve shown through the plotted points would come into fair agreement with the theoretical curve for stream-line flow .
The results of STOCKALPER'S experiments , which possess additional interest owing to the fact that the air was under a pressure of about 5 atmospheres , are well in agreement with the present experiments as regards the 20 cm .
pipe and less so in the case of the 15 cm .
pipe , but unfortunately the ran ge of velocity is not a large one .
In conclusion , a note on the various deductions from theoretical considerations of the criterion for similarity of motion in fluids may be of interest .
In a paper read before the Cambridge Philosophical Society in 1850 , STOKES considered any number of similar systems composed of similar solids , oscillating in a similar manner in different 'Proc .
Amsr .
Soc. Civil Engs .
, ',1903 , vol. 51 , p. 253 .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 17 , 1909 , p. 395 .
STOKES , ' Mathematical and Physical Papers , ' vol. 3 , p. 17 .
MOTION IN RELATION TO THE SURFACE FRICTION OF IDS .
fluids or in the same fluid .
Then , if , , be homologous lines in the systems , , , corresponding times , such as the times of oscillation , , , the maximum excursions of similarly situated points in the fluids and the equations \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , ( which are identical with the general equations of motion of a viscous fluid , in which the terms involving the squares of the velocities are neglected ) are satisfied for one system , they will be satisfied for all the systems provided and i. e. , provided , and From this last relation it follows that for dynamical similarity value of must be constant for all the systems .
In 1873 , HELMHOLTZ , in a paper to the Prussian Acadelny of Sciellces , Berlin , gave a somewhat more general treatment of the question .
onsidering t fluids of densities , and kinematical viscosities , the conditions under which the motions of the two fluids are similar are determined thus:\mdash ; Taking the equation of motion of the first fluid as , and two similar equations , and writing then in order that these equations may be transformed into the equations for the second fluid , \amp ; c. , under the given conditions of similarity , V *HELIKOLTZ , ' Wissenschaftliche Abhandlungen , ' vol. I. , p. 158 .
it will be seen that , multiplying ( 1 ) by the required transformation is effected if the change in the scales of length , time and pressure are It follows , therefore , from the linear scale relation that , if and are corresponding linear dimensions of two pipes in which the fluids of densities , and kinematical viscosities are flowing , in order that the two motions may be similar , or must have the same value for each .
Again , from the pressure scale relation it follows that for similar motion the value of is the same for each fluid .
The method of Lord RAYLEIGH , which was first applied in considering the size of formed under various conditions , as follows .
Assuming that the resistance depends solely on the velocity , linear dimensions , viscosity and density , and also that the resistance varies as then if are the units of mass , length , and time , the dimensions of are so that and therefore and the resistance per unit area can be written .
With reference to NEWTON'S Theorem on Similar Motions , in Proposition 32 , Book II .
, of the ' Principia , ' the authors are indebted to Dr. R. T. GLAZEBROOK for the following note : In this Theorem NEWTON shows that two systems of particles , if started similarl , continue to move in a similar manner if the acceleration of each system is proportional to being the velocity and a linear quantity defining the dimensions of the system\mdash ; the diameter of a particle .
Now denoting by the acceleration and by the density , we have for fluid friction force per unit area 'Phil .
Mag 1899 , vol. 48 , p. 321 .

