]\gt ; TH1 PRESID b in The Presents received ] on the table , and thanks ordered for following Papers Cjud : \mdash ; 1 .
the of Heat in ipsoids of Revolution By C. , Professor of Mathematics in Queen 's College , Cork .
Communicated by . .
L. GLAISHER , .
Beceived ( Abstr ) objcct of the present paper is to invcstigate expressions esent themselves in the mathematical treatment of the problem conduction of heat in au ellipsoid of revoIution .
The results obtained constitute generalisntion of tion for , and are fonncl , in the stance , au ellipsoid whose nlajor axis is the axis of revolution , but a slight ation will render thel applicable also to a nctary ellipsoid .
may cffect ] to ellipsoidal of the )eneral equation of :onduclion as follows : the cllipsoid and any point to the.face } ) eing denoted , and -ordinates of the point expressed by of becomes ' We equation by or 1879 .
] of Ife in constant to be determined , in both ; have to mine the appropriate solutions of Writing for , and denoting by tesseral satisfied by of . . .
and the ) Putting .
if and if , if if 1V systems ( 1 ) the roots of ' . .
of .
; into form ) the valucs of and opposite , on osito sidcs of hc valucs of onding chsscq , xpressed mopriateiy i of ction If writc for Slons : th , Prof. C. Niven on [ May 29 , .
Class II .
Any one of the forms It is shown that the roots of are all real and definite in position , and that in the neighbourhood of these roots the series a .
rapidly ; similar hold for roots of The general form of the rfitios : is ascertained , and the equntion writen in the form where .
denotes the sum of ) roducts of every of the series . .
of which no two in the product are adjacent .
We then mate to by by powers of , and the expression for the root is , up to iven by in represents the esult of in a first approxim tion , up to given by the resulting of substituting a sccond up to by These ] ) ressions f ] en used to expand in powers of more espccially , the first each cquation for any iven value of .
arc found .
the the tclm , is ucrm of the scrics , and tnsiollS nre : : : ns far us Tn of I a of the roots found for the smallcr ) , 1 , ical cnsions e for one to one to ( in eneritl ) Il tions ] a of the roots only .
expansions reprcsent the solution by The valucs of mnbt bc mined from the tisfied at of solid .
If be constanf of Ifeat of olntion .
ture , is either by or , and 2 being the and minor axes of the ellipsoid .
The Iatter is the more convellient for in vcrs of eccentricity It is shown how the values of may be found , in particular for the root of , the equation becomcs ives for When the solid cools by radi tion the boundary condition is ; and , to deal with this condition , it is ncccssar to show that ally f tion of , at least every of expansion in the form , may be expanded in .
The possibility of this depends on the theorelll , which is proved In particular the coefficicllts of the expansion of in this arc fully worked out .
To satisfy the conditions of ) we must now sum an expression of the form or ) ) tions are givcll creby both the of and the coefficients ( C ) .
Tf we require the expansion of far as , the quation 1hich f it bc readily iven .
If we vish only up to , this up into system of the , in which g are constant coefficicnts lues found .
The ourse of the subsequent tion is force from difficulty .
To culate the which depend 011 the initial state of the lipsoid , we to cvaluate the intcgral in which may be either o , as the case may be ; and do so we must deterlluine t following rals : not not I , and the omplicated .
nished .
it ults transferred to .
in formul II .
oftjng .
the Lin ( ( , the Obliquity of . .
' .
il tions h is did of II .
in 1 1I I I ) I \fnof ; g I us od of ere 01 1 I I $ I I ' to the ( pocket -n .
and / , ' I .
( I in .
alluded to : tl us lal on of resea ] .
( .I I ' ?
' !
/\ldquo ; I1

