I. " On the Anatomy of Tridacna .
" By JOHN DENIS MAC .
DONALD , Esq. , Assistant-Surgeon R.N. Communicated by Sir JOHN LIDDELL , C.B. , M.D. , Director-General of the Medical Department of the Navy .
Received June 25 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) The author first explains the peculiar position which the animal of Tridacna occupies in its shell , in which it differs from bivalves in general .
He then describes the mantle and its borders , the membranous interpallial septum , the respiratory and wide pedal openings communicating with the interpallial space , the two pairs of branchiae , the mouth with the anterior and posterior lip and the four oral palps , the foot , the extensive cloacal cavity with its subdivisions , and the circular contractile cloacal orifice opening on the dorsal surface .
He next gives an account of the form and arrangement of the ali2 u mentary canal , and its relations to the liver and large ovary ; and describes a large viscus situated in the space between the ovary , the adductor muscle , the base of the foot and the pericardium , divided into a central and two lateral portions , and secreting a dark brown liquid loaded with fatty matter .
This body he thinks may be connected with the secretion of the byssus , but , at the same time , remarks that it may be homologous with the organ of Bojanus .
Lastly , the anatomy of the heart and great arteries is given , and is in substance as follows .
On cutting through the floor of the cloaca , the pericardium is laid open , and in it is seen the large , rather square-shaped ventricle , with a capacious but thin-walled auricle opening into it on either side , through an orifice guarded by semilunar valves .
From the thickwalled ventricle , a short tube conducts into a conical dilatation or bulbus arteriosus , with muscular walls , having its base included in the pericardium , and giving rise near its narrow end to the anterior and posterior pallial arteries ; whilst a visceral artery passes from the ventricle to the ovary and adjacent parts .
As in other bivalves , the intestine , before its termination , passes through the heart : in coming through the pericardium , surrounded by that membrane , it forms a short round pedicle which joins the fore part of the ventricle ; it is then continued through the ventricle and bulbus arteriosus , and finally opens into the cloaca .
The blood from the ventricle flows between the outer surface of the intestine and the inside of the sanguiferous channel ; and " that part of the intestine which traverses the bulbus arteriosus is closely surrounded with elongated membranous valvulae , which arise from the anterior part of the chamber where the gut enters , and are fixed by a number of corde tendineme to the posterior wall , where it makes its exit ; " a contrivance which permits the blood to pass between the rectum and the little valves , but prevents its reflux .
The description is illustrated by drawings of the exterior of the animal and of the particular parts specially referred to , and also by a diagram representing the general arrangement and relative position of the several organs .

