II .
" Some Observations on the Ova of the Salmon , in relation to the distribution of Species ; in a letter addressed to CHARLES DARWIN , Esq. , M.A. , V.P.R.S. &amp;c. " By JOHN DAVY , M.D. , F.R.SS .
Lond. &amp; Edinb .
, Inspector-General of Army Hospitals .
Received March 27 , 1855 .
In this paper the author describes a series of experiments on the ova of the Salmon , made with the intent of ascertaining their power of endurance under a variety of circumstances without loss of life , with the expectation suggested by Mr. Darwin , that the results might possibly throw some light on the geographical distribution of fishes .
The details of the experiments are given in five sections .
The results obtained were the following:1 .
That the ova of the Salmon in their advanced stage can be exposed only for a short time to the air if dry , at ordinary temperatures , without loss of life ; but for a considerable time , if the temperature be low , and if the air be moist ; the limit in the former case not having exceeded an hour , whilst in the latter it has exceeded many hours .
2 .
That the vitality of the ova was as well preserved in air saturated with moisture , as it would have been had they been in water .
3 .
That the ova may be included in ice without loss of vitality , provided the temperature is not so low as to freeze them .
4 .
That the ova , and also the fry recently produced , can bear for some time a temperature of about 80 ?
or 82 ?
in water , without materially suffering ; but not without loss of life , if raised above 84 ?
or 85 ? .
5 .
That the ova and young fry are speedily killed by a solution of common salt nearly of the specific gravity of sea-water , viz. 1026 ; and also by a weaker solution of specific gravity 1016 .
Finally , in reference to the inquiry regarding the distribution of the species of fishes , he expresses his belief that some of the results may be of useful application , especially those given in the second and third sections ; inferring , that as in moist air , the vitality of the ova is capable of being long sustained , they may during rain or fog be conveyed from one river or lake to another adhering to some part of an animal , such as a Heron or Otter , and also during a time of snow or frost ; and , further , that other of the results may be useful towards determining the fittest age of ova for transport for the purpose of stocking rivers , and likewise as a help to explain the habitats , and some of the habits of the migratory species .

