13 1878 J Mr. Parker on the Shull of Common Snake .
III .
" On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Common Snake ( Tropidonotus natrix ) .
By W. K. PARKER , F.R.S. Received October 15 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) For several years past I have taken every opportunity to work at the skull of the common snake , but sufficient materials for completing a memoir upon it have not turned np until lately .
Last year , however , at the-request of my friend Mr. P. H. Carpenter , Dr. Max Braun , of Wurzburg , kindly sent me about fifty early embryos of reptiles ; these were of four kinds , namely , of the common snake , the blind worm , the nimble lizard , and the gecko .
These invaluable embryos , added to what I have for many years been collecting , will enable me to bring before the Society a yearly tribute of a paper on the skull of these instructive types .
Lying at the very base of the gill-less ITertebrata , and possessing a skull at once the simplest , and yet the most curiously specialized , the snake is a type well worth careful study .
I have found it so in my own division of work .
My guide in this piece of work has been Rathke , whose observations on the early stages of the skull appeared first , in translation , in this country , in Professor Huxley 's " Croonian Lecture .
" For many years past I have known that the key to the meaning of the skull in the whole series of the " Sauropsida ''\#151 ; reptiles and birds in one huge group\#151 ; was to be found in that of the serpent .
I have freely used it as such , and my nomenclature of the parts of the growing bird 's skull is based on that of the snake 's , although , until now , I have not been able to publish more than a mere abstract upon its characters .
For convenience ' sake , I have divided my subject into seven , the first of these being illustrated by embryos with a very delicate vesicular head , bent down upon the neck , and whose entire length , supposing them to be uncoiled , was barely three-quarters of an inch in length .
The last stage is the adul , whose skull , once interpreted , will greatly help in the interpretation of all the skulls that rise above and around it .
As to the finished skull , it is easy to judge beforehand that the cranial part must be a very solid and relatively small and that the facial part must be free and elastic to the utmost degree .
All the morphological specializations that take place in the head of the embryo steadily lead to this result ; but the superstructure is marvellously unlike the foundations that were at first laid .
As to the general embryological study of the snake 's embryo , it may be remarked that it is almost exactly like that of the bird s. 14 Mr. Parker on t Structure and * [ Jan. 10 , Comparing my own observations on this low type with the results given of the study of the chick in Foster and Balfour 's excellent work , I find that few paragraphs in it would need any material alteration ' and that the figures would mostly serve very accurately if in that work the word chick were to be exchanged for that of snake embryo .
The development of the vesicles of the brain , the organs of special sense , the rudiments of the cranium and face\#151 ; those things that come across my path , to say nothing of the rest of the growing germ , all are developed similarly in the snake , below , and in the bird , above .
' Bike all the Vertebrata above the fishes and amphibia ( " Ichthy-opsida " ) , the embryo of the snake has the folds and clefts behind the mouth few and small ; yet there is no change of pattern , and the rudiments of -three pairs of gill-arches with their clefts can be made out .
But no embryo I have studied shows more clearly that all the folds that lie about the mouth , before and behind , as well as those that form the mouth itself , belong to one category .
Whilst the brain is merely a row of three vesicles , and the rudiments of the sense-capsules are three folds , or unclosed vesicles , the sides of the head grow downwards as a series of folds parted by deep notches or clefts .
These clefts are the " naso-lacrymal " in front of the rudimentary mouth ; the mouth-clefts ( right and left ) ; the " tympano-eustachian ; " and the three " hyo-branchial " clefts behind that .
The first folds lie under the fore-brain ; these are the " fronto-nasal processes " or flaps ; the second are the " maxillo-palatine ; " the third , the mandibular ; the fourth , the hyoid ; and the fifth , sixth , and seventh are rudimentary branchials , that never give off branchial filaments or plicae .
The cavity of the mouth is formed by the absorption of the meso-blast that lay in the angle of the head\#151 ; bent double upon itself\#151 ; just below the end of the notochord .
The walls of the mouth are formed by the maxillo-palatine rudiments in front , and the mandibular rudiments behind ; below , the floor of the face is suppressed ; at the sides , the right and left cleft form the right and left angle of the mouth .
The visceral folds develop but little cartilage ; an outgrowth from the anterior ends of the trabeculae grows downwards and backwards into the fronto-nasal process .
It represents two visceral rudiments , the axis of the pre-maxillary arch ; but this flap is single .
The maxillopalatine folds develop no cartilage , but become rich in u parosteal99 bones .
Each mandible develops a large quadrate and a long articulo-meckelian cartilage .
All the cartilage seen on each side behind the lower jaw is a small 1878 .
] Development of the Skull in the Common Snake .
" epi-hyal " ( " hyo-mandibular " ) , which becomes the stem of the " columella auris ; " but the " branchial " folds develop no cartilage in them , and soon are lost in the sides of the neck .
There is but little cartilage developed in the cranium .
The ear-capsules are large , long , and become solid cartilage before they ossify , and the simple nasal roofs chondrify and never ossify .
There is a large cartilaginous occipital ring or arch , but the sphenoidal regions , which have exceptionally autogenous alse , are very feeble and small .
The trabeculae , which are ' manifestly mere outgrowths of the para-choidal tracts , develop into long terete rods of cartilage , but do not ossify at all in front of the pituitary space .
They coalesce in the internasal region , and coalescing also with the descending laminae of each nasal roof-cartilage , they form a low septum nasi .
There are two pairs of " extra-visceral , " or labial , cartilages .
The " epi-hyal " rudiment coalesces daring chondrification with the stapedial plate ; it gives off a. small scale from its postero-superior edge .
This is a minute rudiment of the " stylo-hyal " element .
Both in the cranium and face there is a copious growth of very perfect bone developed in the sub-cutaneous stroma .
In the cranium the frontals quite , and the parietals almost , meet below .
Thus the trabe-culse are excluded from taking part in the formation of the front part of the cranial cavity .
These rods lie in the grooved sides of the " parasphenoid , " which has no basi-temporal part , as in the bird , but becomes ankylosed to the double , ectosteal basi-sphenoid .
These are some of the most striking points in the growing snake 's skull ; for the rest I must refer to the main paper .
I may , however , make a few remarks upon the " new things " to be seen in this low sauropsidan skull .
The occipital condyles are confluent at the mid-line , so as to form a rounded single surface , with a dimpled middle part .
The auditory capsule acquires three bony centres that do not unite with each other , but with the nearest bones of the cranium .
Thus the prootic coalesces with the alisphenoid , the epiotic with the superoccipital , and the opisthotic with the exoccipital .
The columella and stapes are one bone , not distinct as in the batrachia .
The union takes place very early .
The mandible opens very far back , behind the occiput , and as the quadrate passes over the stylo-hyal , the two become ankylosed together .
For the palate a new bone appears , namely the " trans-palatine ; " but the meso-pterygoid is not distinct from the pterygoid in the ophidia .
It occurs in Anguis fragilis .
The little " pre-orbitals " that in the Amphibia form a floor to the On the Nervous System of Aurelia aurita .
[ Jan. 10 , narial passage , and are termed by me the " septo-maxillaries , " attain their highest development in serpents and lizards .
I do not find them in the tortoises and crocodiles , but they re-appear\#151 ; very small_____in carinate birds , in connection , as in the snakes , with the vomers and labial cartilages .
In the mandible the upper part of Meckel 's cartilage ossifies as the " articulate , " and now we get the full number of the splints , namely , five\#151 ; the dentary , sphenial , coronoid , angular , and surangular .
The pier is a single bone , the quadrate .
These six pairs of bones forming the free mandible occur also in the lizards , crocodiles , and in most birds In tortoises they are fewer , and in gallinaceous birds I have failed to find the coronoid piece at any stage .
The tongue of the snake shows no cartilage in its structure ; neither cerato-hyal , basi-hyal , or thyro-hyal , have appeared in any of my dissections .
J IV .
" Observations on the Nervous System of Aurelia aurita .
" By Edward Albert 'Schafer , Assistant Professor of Phy-siology in University College , London .
Communicated by W. Sharpey , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received October 31 1877 .
( Abstract .
) The anther describes the nervous system of Aurelia as consisting in addition to the dithocysts and certain tracts of specially modified epithelium m their neighbourhood , of an interlacement of nerve-fibres covering the whole of the under surface of the umbrella and lying between the ectodermal epithelium and the muscular sheet .
Bach nerve-fibre presents near the middle of its course a nucleated enlargement in tne shape of a bipolar nerve-cell , which is thus interpolated in the course of the fibre .
With regard to these nerve-fibres it is re-marked-firstly , that they are of limited length , seldom exceeding four millimetres ; second^ , that they never come into actual continuity with other fibres , although they frequently run closely parallel for a certain distance , and often form extremely intricate interlacements by breuTm|hl0vge " d a , nTb6r '\#163 ; fibreS ' 1116 fibres occasionally branch They are described as ending generally by finely-tapered extremities , which are m closecontact with the substance of themus cular fibres , but sometimes the termination of the nerve is dilatod endap ?
afod nUOleafa\gt ; d eXpaMion ' proba % a Primitive form of motorial The^itlioo vstdr.land 'e'"tl0Ilfi of the lithooysts are then treated of .
I Jd d described as consisting of an ectodermic covering and an endodermic core , the two being nearly eveiywhere separately a

