XXIII .
Experiments on a Mineral Substance formerly supposed to be Zeolite ; with some Remarks on two Species of Uran-glimmer .
By the Rev. William Gregori Communicated by Charles Hatchett , Esq. F. R. S. Read July 4 , 180j .
T Is mineral is raised in a mine called Stenna Gwyn , in the parish of St. Stephen 's , in Branwell , in the county of Cornwall ; the principal production of which is the compound sulphuret of tin , copper , and iron .
Description .
Two species of this mineral are found , assuming a marked difference in external character .
The first and most common one consists of an assemblage of minute crystals , which are attached to quartz crystals , in tufts , which diverge from the point of adherence , as from a centre .
These tufts vary , as to the number of crystals , of which they are composed , and are light and delicate in the forms which they assume , or they are grouped together according to a variety of degrees of proximity and compactness .
Sometimes they fill the whole cavity of a stone , with little or no interruption ; in other specim.ns they are seen partially spreading over the sides and pointed pyramids of quartz crystals .
In some cases these grouped tufts adhere very pertinaciously to the stone which bears them ; in others , they are easily separable , in comparatively large pieces , from the quartz , he impressed form of which the pieces thus separated , retain .
The surface of these , which was in immediate contact with the quartz , exhibits the several minute crystals of which the mass consists , matted together in various directions .
These crystalline assemblages are , in general , white ; a nearer inspection of the individual crystals proves that they are transparent .
Sometimes they are stained of a yellowish hue by ochry water .
The size of these crystals varies considerably in different specimens .
Sometimes they assume the appearance of a white powder raised up in small heaps , upon the surface of the stone , to which they adhere .
In other specimens they resemble a tender down .
And the larger sort varies , in relative size , in the proportion , perhaps , in which a human hair , horse-hair , and a hog 's bristle , severally differ from each other in magnitude .
They seldom exceed a quarter of an inch in length .
The figure of these crystals is not easily ascertainable , on account of their minuteness .
By the help of a very powerful micros- .
cope , they appear to consist of four-sided prisms ; where these are broken off , the section exhibits a rhomboidal approaching -indeed to an elliptical figure , from the circumstance of the angles of the prism being worn away , ; but that the prism itself is rhomboidal , cannot be inferred from hence , unless we could be certified , that the section were at right angles with the axis of it .
Imbedded amongst these crystals two species of crystalline laminae are frequently discoverable : the one consisting of parallelopipedon plates with truncated angles , applied to each other , of a green colour of various tints , from the emerald to the apple-green : the other species , consisting of an assemblage of square plates , which vary in thickness .
The angles of the several square lamine , which are applied to each other are not always coincident .
They are of a bright wax yellow .
The sides of the largest of these square laminae is about a quarter of an inch .
This last species is frequently found adhering to the sides of quartz crystals , in the cavities of granite .
The other species of this mineral consists of an assemnblagre of crystals closely compacted together in the form of mamia miillary protuberances , in general , of the size of small peas , intimately connected with each other .
A stratum of these about 4 of an inch thick is spread upon a layer of quartz , in the cavities or fissures of a species of compact granite .
The strip of which these mamillm consist diverge from a centre , like zeolite .
Some of the individual strio in some cases , overtop their fellows , in these globular assemblages , and evidently assume , onf their projecting points , a crystallized form .
A. ( .
) The detached crystals of the former species are easily reduced to powder , of a brilliant whiteness .
At the temperature 56 ' of FAHRENHEIT , its specific gravity was found to be 2,22 .
( 2 .
) The hardness of the more compact species is sufficient to scratch calcareous spar .
At the temperature 5,5 , its specific gravity was 2,253 .
It does not imbibe water .
( s. ) Some of the crystals exposed , on charcoal , to the flame of the blowpipe suddenly and strongly driven upon them , decrepitate : if they are gradually exposed to the flame they grow opaque , and become more light and tender : : but they show no signs of fusion under the strongest heat .
( 4 .
) The phosphate of soda and ammonia takes up a piece of this mineral without effervescence , but it swims about the fused globule , unaltered .
Borax dissolves a fragment of a crystal , and the globule remains transparent .
( .
) Some of this mineral , reduced to a fine powder , was mixed with about half its weight of pounded quartz , and kneaded with water into a ball : but as soon as the mass became dry , all cohesion was destroyed , and it fell into powder .
( 6 .
) Sulphuric acid , poured upon some of it , caused no effervescence nor was there any perceptible vapour extricated .
( 7 .
) Some of the pulverised crystals were put into a crucible of platina , and sulphuric acid was poured upon them .
The crucible was covered with a piece of glass , and placed in warm sand .
On examination of the crucible and its contents , after some tinle , it appeared that the greater part of the mineral had been dissolved , but the surface of the glass cover was not in the least affected .
( 8 .
) Some of the crystals were introd uced into a small glass retort , to which a receiver was adapted .
The retort was exposed to the heat of a charcoal fire .
A fluid distilled over into the receiver , which had a peculiar empyreumatic smell .
It changed litmus-paper to a faint red .
It produced no change hn a solution of nitrate of silver ; but it caused a white precipitate in a solution of nitrate of mercury .
I attributed these ph ' nomena , at the time , to a small bit of the feather with which I had ; swept the powder into the retort , and which , I thou ght , had fallen into it .
A slight whitish crust was also produced in the neck of the retort , but the smallness of the qualtity did not admit of examinations ( 9 .
) Some of this mineral exposed to a red heat for about ten minutes , lost in weight at the rate of e2tp r cent. Another BUS portion .
, exposed to a stronger heat for more than an hour ; lost 3cper cent. This operation was performed in a crucible of platina ; the cover of which gave some indications as if a slight portion of the finer parts had been volatilized .
Some of the compact species , after exposure toa red heat for one hour experienced a diminution in weight of 30 per cent. ( lo .
) The sulphuric , muriatic and nitric acids , aided by a long digesting heat , effect nearly a complete solution of this substance .
The quantity of the undissolved residuum is diminished in proportion to the purity of the mineral employed .
( i. ) The nitrate of silver , as well as the muriate of barytes , produce no change in the solution of this substance in nitric acid .
( i 2 .
) The solutions of this substance in muriatic and nitric acids , cannot be brought to crystallize .
B. ( i. I selected some of the crystals of this substance , as free as it was possible from extraneous matter .
50 grains grossly pounded were exposed in a platina crucible , to a red heat for one hour .
They weighed , whilst still warm , 35grains , which is a loss of 28per cent. 25 grains of the same parcel , from which I had taken the former , exposed to a heat of longer continuance and greater intensity , were diminished in weight , at the rate of S3o per cent. ( 2a .
) The powder still preserved its pure whiteness .
It was transferred into a mattress and nitric acid poured upon it , which soon began to act upon it .
The mattress was placed , for many hours , in a digesting heat .
A solution of the whole of the substance , except a small portion , was effected .
I added a few drops of muriatic acid , and continued the digestion .
( 3 .
) The acid was now diluted with distilled water , and poured off from the residuum , which consisted partly of a fine spongy earth , and partly of fragments of quartz .
It was caught on a filter and sufficiently edulcorated .
The last portion of edulcorating water dropped through the filter of an opalish hue .
The residuum , dried and exposed to a red heat , for ten minutes of a grain , -I .
of which consisted of fragments of quartz , -t2 was found to be silica , and -L alumina .
C. ( 1 .
) The clear solution and the edulcorating water were poured into a large mattress and boiled , and whilst boiling , the contents were precipitated , in white flakes , by ammonia .
( 2 .
) When the ammonia had ceased to produce any further precipitate , the clear fluid was decanted , and assayed with carbonate of ammonia .
But its transparency was not in the least disturbed .
( 8 .
) This clear fluid , together with the edulcorating water , with which the subsided precipitate had been washed , was gradually evaporated .
When its volume was considerably diminished , a separation of a spongy earth took place , more copiously than I had reason to expect , and the quantity of it was still further increased by a few drops of ammonia .
This earth , thus separated , was sufficiently edulcorated , and added to the former precipitate .
( 4 .
) The fluid was again evaporated , and at last transferred +o a crucible of platina , and the salt reduced to a dry state : on redissolving this salt in distilled water a minute portion of earthy- , matters was separated , which , after edulcoration , was added to the rest .
The fluid from\Which it had been separated , Pd the edulcorating water , were again evaporated to dryness and the ammoniacal salt expelled by heat , in a platina crucible .
( S. ) After the crucible had been made red hot , it was exam n-ined .
I discovered on the bottom of it .
some traces of earthy matter , and : some spots , which had a glassy appearance .
Water boiled upon it , -dissolved nothing ; from which circumstance , the absence of both of the fixed alkaline salts may be inferred .
Neither did nitric acid produce any alteration .
A few drops of sulplhuric acid effected a solution of the substance , which adhered to the 'botton ' of the crucible .
Ammonia precispitated from it a small quantity of earth , which was transferred to the rest , and the sulphate of ammonia and edulcorating water were again evaporated and expelled by heat .
A few spots of the same glazing still appeared .
I had observed the same phenomenon in a former experiment : but itn that , as well as in the present instance , the substance was in too small a quantity to become the subject of experiment .
D. ( i. ) Upon the precipitate ( C ) , and the earths collected at different times , whilst they were in a moist state , I poured a solution of potash in alcohol mixed with distilled water ; in a short time , the greater part of it was dissolved .
The clear solution was decanted , and the undissolved sediment was transferred to a bason of pure silver , and boiled with a solution of potash .
( 2 .
) When the potash ceased to act upon it , it was diluted with distilled water and decanted from a brown powder , which had subsided .
This powder edulcorated , dried , and ignited weighed -Iof a grain ; X of a grain was alumina , silica , and 3 oxide of iron .
E. ( 1 .
) The solution effected by potash was decomposed and redissolved by muriatic acid , and the contents of the solution were precipitated by ammonia .
The subsided precipitate was eduLicorated .
( 2 .
) The -fluid and the -edulcorating water were evaporated to dryness , and redissolved in distilled water .
Here again , to my surprise , a separation took place of a white earth , more abundant than is usual in cases where ammonia is employed as a precipitant .
( s3 .
) This earth and the precipitate were edulcorated with distilled water , until it ceased to affect a solution of nitrate of mereury .
Collected , dried , and ignited , for one hour it weighed whilst still iwarm 3s Any .
F. ( .
) This earth was placed in a crucible of platina , and repeatedly moistened with sulphuric acid , which was !
abstracted from it in the sand bath ; distilled water effected the solution of the whole , except a white powder which weighed , after ignition , 2-a.Y grains .
It was proved to be silica .
( 2 .
) This solution was now mixed with some acetat Or 'potash and gradually evaporated , ; large and regular crystals of alum were from time to time formed .
A small portion of silica which weighed after ignition -1of grain was deposited ; some sulphat of lime also made its appearance , which washed with diluted alcohol and dried in a low heat =k of a grain .
( s. )A portion of the fluid remained which neither thi addition of potash nor the lapse of many weeks could induce to crystallize .
Suspecting that it might contain glucine , I precipitated the contents by carbonat of ammonia , added to excess , and shook the mixture repeatedly and strongly .
The prvcipitated earth was collected and the fluid boiled , but it was found to contain nothing but a minute portion of alumina .
( 4 .
) The edulcorated earth was redissolved in sulphuric acid , except Aof a grain of ignited silica .
The solution was mixed with a little potash , and gradually evaporated .
Sulphat of of lime was separated at several times and after long intervals , which sufficiently washed and dried in a low heat =- .
Some silica also separated , but too minute in quantity to be ascertained by weight .
The remaining fluid at length crystallized into regularly formed alum .
( 5 .
) The whole , therefore , of the Se , g ( E. a. ) consisted of alumina except 47 of silica , and the lime contained in 3 of sulphat of lime , which may be estimated about -A of a grain ; the alumina , therefore , = ; 29 the alumina in B. and D. the silica in B , D , and F , =3Ig6the oxide of iron ( D. ) =33 g and lime F. 3 the volatile parts of this substance -1in the 50 grains employed .
The sum total of these is _ 47 Tr Loss I6I have subjected these crystals , as well as the harder species of this mineral , to analysis by means of direct solution in sulphuric acid , and ha " e found in each case the same fixed ingre.dients , 'viz .
allumina a s~r aa portion of silica , and a very minute quantit'y of i e. Both fltiese latter ingredients are , I think , s fi1 to the composition of this fossil , as I , have always discovered them in the pure-est specimens .
In this mode of analysis I experienced the same difficulty and tediousness of delay in bringing the last portions of the solution to crystallize -into alumi .
Thi3 anomalous circumstance I have reason to attribute to a particular combination , which takes place between the sulphat of alumina and lime , silica , and potas'h .
In my examination of the compact species there was no appearance of the sulphat of lime until the last ; and in every experiment , previously to the fresh appearance of crystals of alumn that had been long delayed , silica and sulphat of lime were deposited .
I forbear entering into any further details concerning my former experiments on this curious fossil , as I have reason tothink that it will still require a more particular and minute examination , on account of another ingredient which eluded my notice , and which may possibly impart to it its peculiar character .
The scarcity of it has been hitherto a great bar to my experiments ; I shall record , however , a few facts which I have lately observed , in the hope that at a future time I may be able to resume my examination of it .
I was induced to pay more attention to the volatile ingredients of this substance.* With this view , I introduced some of the crystals into a small retort , adapted a receiver unto it , and exposed the retort to : a charcoal fire .
The neck of the retort was soon covered with moisture , which passed into the receiver and I observed a white crust gradually forming in the arch and neck of the retort .
On examination of the fluid in the receiver , it was found to have the same empyreumatic smell that I had observed before .
It resembles very much the smell which that fluid is found to have which is distilled from the white crust that surrounds flint as a nucleus- .
it changed litmus paper to a faint reddish hue .
It produced no change on a solution of nitrat of silver , and scarcely a per.ceptible one , on that of nitrat of mercury .
Th e crust formed in the neck of the retort consisted of thin : scales , which after the vessel had been dried , were disposed to separate from the glass in some places , but in others they firmly adhered unto it .
They were opaque , like white enamnel , and reflected the colours of the rainbow .
A portion of this subtance exposed to the flaame of the blow-pipe upon charcoal turned at first black , and then melted into a globule , that exhibited somewbhat of a metallic splendor which soon grew dull .
This substance is soluble in water ; on evaporation of it , it assumes , at the edges of the fluid , a saline appearance , which , as the moisture evaporates , becomes earthy , opake , and white .
Some of the solution changed litmus paper to a faint red .
Lime and strontian waters produce in it white clouds , which a drop of nitric acid removes .
Muriats of limie and barytes produce no change in it .
Nitrat and acetat of barytes disturb its transparency , the effect produced by the .
, latter is more evident .
Nitrat of silver produces no effect , but nitrats of mercury and lead cause copious precipitates ) , which , , , are whites and soluble in nitric acid .
Phosphat of ammonia and soda produced a white preciptate .
Oxalat , tartrite , and prussiat of potash did nt affect it , nor did sulphat of soda .
Ammonia was dropped into it , but the fluid preserved its transparency .
But carbonat of ammonia instantly caused a white precipitate , which was not redissolved by an excess of the precipitant ; upon some of this subsided precipitate a concentrated solution of potash was poured and shaken with it , but it was not sensibly diminished .
But if after edulcoration it be dissolved in nitric acid , and potash be added , no ; precipitate is produced .
Carbonat of potash causes a white precipitate when dropped into the aqueous solution of the scaly sublimate .
The supernatant fluid was poured off and gradually evapo- .
rated , but it became repeatedly turbid , nor could I by means either of the filter or alcohol prevent a recurrence of the same effect .
Nearly the same result takes place when carbonat of ammonia is used as the precipitant .
Some of the white scales were moistened with sulphuric acid .
ZNo vapour arose .
Some of the precipitate obtained by means of carbonat of potash from the watery solution of this substance , was , after sufficient edulcoration , dissolved in sulphuric acid ; the solution , on due evaporation , produced permanent crystals , some of which resembled alum , but others seemed to differ from it in external character .
Ammonia decomposed the solution of them in water , and a few drops of liquid potash dissolved the precipitated earth .
The quantity was too small for further experiment .
If distilled water be poured into the retort and boiled in it , so as to dissolve what adheres to the neck and cavity of it , a further solution is effected , but differing in .
some measure from the solution of the sublimate collected from the neck of the vessel .
This latter solution is found to contain lead .
If nitric or muriatic acid be poured into the retort , so as to dissolve what still remains adhering to it , the presence of lead becomes more evident .
Whence does this metal arise ?
I have reason , to believe that it arises from the glass retort , which is corroded by the acid of the fossil extricated by heat .
But what acid is it ?
It does not seem to be either the phosphoric or fluoric acidls , the latter of which became the first object of my sus- .
Picion ' .
The opinion which Mr. DAVY suggested to meseems more , probable , that it is of vegetable origin .
-Oxalic acid , on the authority of BERGMAN , may be volatilized ; yet someof its .
properties are very extraordinary and do not accord with .
this idea .
I decomposed the watery solution of the scales by nitrat of lead , and after a sufficient edulcoration of the , subsided precipitate , I -dropped opon it some sulphuric acid .
No fumnes were .
perceptible .
The sulphat of lead was separated by the filter , and the clear fluid , which passed through it , was gradually evaporated ; small .
crystallizations weremformed , the figure of which I could not ascertain ; some of them , were exposed to the flame : of the blowpipe in a gold spoon ; they did not burn to coal , nor give out anyempyreumaticsmell nor fuse , but they assumed an earthy : appearance .
* Uranglinmer .
I shall add a few desultory remarks upon the yellow and green crystals , which frequently accompany this fossil .
I considered them to be the two species of Uran-glimmer , which had been examined by the celebrated KLAPROTN .
The yellow cubic crystals are light .
Their specific gravity , taken at temperature 4,5 ?
FAHRENHEIT , was 2,19 .
Exposed to the flame of the blowpipe on charcoal , they decrepitate violently .
A piece of this substance is taken up by phosphate of ammonia and soda , without efferve scence , and -communicates a light emerald-green colour to the fused globule .
By exposure to a red heat , this substance loses nearly a third part of its weight .
It then becomes of a brassy colour .
It is soluble in the nitric and muriatic acids : but I could procure no crystallized salt from the solution of either of them .
By evaporation to dryness , and redissolving the mass , some silica is separated .
A\ ... ( i. ) A certain quantity of the yellow crystals were dissolved in nitric acid .
Muriatic and sulphuric acids successively dropped into the solution produced no sensible change .
The contents of the solution were precipitated by ammonia , in white clots mixed with some of a yellowish hue .
Ammonia , added in excess , betrayed no sign of the presence of copper , ( 2 .
) The ammonia , on evaporation , was found to have held a portion of the mineral in solution .
A fresh portion of ammonia dissolved more , but in a less quantity , at each succeeding affusion of it .
( S. ) The precipitate , which had resisted the ammonia , was -boiled in a silver crucible , with a solution of potash in alcohol , diluted with distilled water , and a considerable portion of the substance was dissolved by it : the potash and the ammonia had dissolved rather more than half of the fixed ingredients of it .
( 4 .
) The edulcorated residuum , which was of a dirty yellow colour , was transferred to a crucible of platina , and moistened with sulphuric acid , which was abstracted from it , in the sandbath .
The brownish-gray mass was elixated with distilled water , which dissolved nearly the whole of it .
The residuum consisted of a white heavy powder , which , tried in different ways , was found to be sulphate of lead .
( S. ) The solution effected by sulphuric acid was greenish .
On evaporation , a salt was produced , of uncommon brilliancy , resembling scales of mica , or silver leaf .
These diminished in quantity at every fresh solution and evaporation , and at last they could not be reproduced ; but a confused crystallized mass remained .
How far the platina crucible may have contributed to this phenomenon I cannot ascertain .
( 6 .
) The solution of the saline mass was precipitated by potash , of a dark brown colour .
The potash held nothing in solution .
I redissolved the precipitate in nitric acid , and precipitated the solution by ammonia , of a bright yellow colour , peculiar to the oxide of uranium , with which it agreed in other properties .
; ( '7 .
) What was dissolved by ammonia ( 92 .
) amounted to nearly 6 part of the fixed ingredients .
It was white , inclining to ash-colour .
It tinged phosphate of soda and ammonia of a light green .
It was soluble in sulphuric acid , except a few gelatinous flakes .
The solution was greenish ; gradually evaporated , it shot into a number of minute stellated crystallizations , which were circular , and consisted of rays diverging from a centre .
They were , in general , colourless : a few of them were tinged of a 'smoke-colour .
They soon became deliquescent .
Upon evaporation , the same crystallizations were produced .
After a time , some detached , regular , and permanent crystals were formed , which were colourless .
Their figure I could not accurately ascertain .
They were exposed to a red heat in a platina crucible .
No ammoniacal vapour was perceptible .
The crystals melted into opaque globules : some of these were transferred to a small glass , and distilled water was poured upon them .
No solution took place , apparently : on shaking the glass , the globules fell to pieces into gelatinous flakes , which were white .
Some of the supernatant fluid was tried with nuriate of barytes , which produced a cloud .
But neither ammonia nor prussiate of potash caused any change in it .
It is soluble also in nitric acid : the solution formed a confused crystallized mass , which soon became deliquescent .
Zinc , immersed in it , caused the separation of white gelatinous flakes .
Iron caused no change .
Ammonia and potash threw down white precipitates , a portion of which were redissolved .
The carbonates of soda , potash , and ammonia produced white precipitates .
Prussiate of potash threw down the contents of the solution in distinct flakes , of the colour of mahogany ; and the solution of galls in alcohol caused a light yellow powder to subside .
It is soluble also in muriatic acid ; the solution is a very dilute green .
It requires an excess of acid to hold the substance in solution ; which , after a time , deposits crystalline grains of a yellowish colour , which-require a large quantity of water to dissolve them .
Acetic acid does not dissolve this powder .
( 8 .
) What was dissolved by potash ( 3 .
) was of an ISABELLA colour : it was tried with nitric , muriatic , and sulphuric acids , neither of which could dissolve the whole of it .
What resisted the two former acids was found to be silica .
That which remained undissolved by the latter , was silica and sulphate of lead .
Evaporation of the latter solution , betrayed also the presence of lime , in the state of sulphate .
The nitric and muriatic solutions , on evaporation , deposited nitrate and muriate of lead ; and sulphuric acid dropped into them produced a small quantity of sulphate of lime .
The nitrate and muriate of lead were decomposed by sulphuric acid , and the lead reduced on charcoal .
Ammonia precipitated what remained in these solutions , and redissolved a part of the precipitates , which agreed in properties with that substance before mentioned ( 2 .
) ; the remainder was of a brighter yellow .
But I could not bring the solution of it in nitric acid to crystallize .
B. ( i. , ) Some of the yellow crystals , which had not the slightest appearance of being contaminated with extraneous matter , were dissolved in sulphuric acid .
Silica was separated ; and the presence of lime and lead proved by the appearance of their respective sulphates .
( 2 .
) If sulphate of ammonia is dropped into a solution of this mineral in nitric or muriatic acids , no change takes place , ibn , mediately .
But on evaporation , a yellowish crust is deposited , which is insoluble in water .
A solution of carbonate of soda in water , boiled on it , becomes yellowish-brown , and the greater part of it is dissolved .
The residuum , which is white , is reduced on charcoal to a globule of lead .
What the carbonate of soda had dissolved was found to be oxide of uranium .
Sulphuric acid alone , does not produce this deposited crust .
( 3 .
) Some perfectly pure crystals were dissolved in muriatic acid .
Some silica was separated .
A few drops of sulphuric acid were dropped into the solution , which produced no immediate change : on evaporation a white powder separated , which consisted in part of sulphate of lime .
The remainder , exposed to the flame of the blowpipe , was reduced to globules of lead .
The solution was decomposed by ammonia , which redissolved a part of the precipitate ; and , after edulcoration , the precipitate was dissolved by nitric acid , and precipitated again by ammonia , which held a less quantity in solution .
The edul .
corated precipitate was now boiled with a solution of carbonate of soda , which dissolved a large portion of it .
The solution was yellowish-brown , and contained oxide of uranium .
What was undissolved by the carbonate of soda was dissolved in sulphuric acid , and seemed to be the same substance as that which the ammonia held in solution .
A. ( 2 .
) The scarcity of this beautiful mineral has precluded me from operating on such a sufficient quantity , as a regular and rigid analysis required .
The substance , which is held in solution by ammonia , has some peculiar properties that seem to distinguish it from uranium .
And if this mineral be the Uran-glimmer , I have certainly detected the oxide of lead , lime , and silica in it , which have not hitherto been considered as ingredients of that fossil .
The green crystals differ in no respect from the yellow , except i"acontaining a little of the oxide of copper .
Creed , June x4th , i8o .

