389 Observations on the Anomalous Behaviour of Delicate , and an Account of Devices for Increasing Accuracy Weighings .
By J. J. Manley , Hod .
M.A. Oxon .
, Daubeny Curator , Magdalen College , Oxford .
( Communicated by Prof. E. B. Elliott , F.R.S. Received June 21 , \#151 ; Read November 10 , 1910 .
) ( Abstract .
) Many observers have drawn attention to the small irregularities that are frequently exhibited by delicate balances .
The consequent inconveniences appear to have been felt chiefly by those who have been engaged in atomic weight determinations , the measurements of the mean density of the earth , the standardisation of weights , and work of a like nature .
Of those who have thus been hampered during their researches we may mention the names of such well-known investigators as Miller , Thorpe , Pointing and Phillips , and Dixon and Edgar .
In this paper an account is given of experimental work that was carried out with the object of elucidating the causes of the variations in the resting-point of a balance .
Through the kindness of the agents of various balance makers , the author was enabled to experiment with a number of new instruments of high grade and of different types .
It appeared probable that the possible causes of the fluctuations in the resting-point were due to ( 1 ) Side-slipping of the central knife-edge upon its supporting plane .
( 2 ) Differential and continued flexure of the beam after loading .
( 3 ) Lateral displacement of one or more knife-edges .
( 4 ) Small variations in the temperature of the two arms of the beam .
Each of the four possibilities is investigated in detail both experimentally and theoretically .
It is shown that the anomalous behaviour of a balance is due almost , if not quite entirely , to causes ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , and that causes ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are , for all practical purposes , inoperative .
Experiments were conducted by means of a differential bolometer placed within the ordinary balance case .
They revealed the existence of slight but rapid and almost continuous fluctuations in the temperature of the air immediately surrounding the beam .
These fluctuations cannot be detected by even very delicate mercury-in-glass thermometers ; for such thermometers VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; A. 2 E 390 Anomalous Behaviour of Delicate , etc. are too sluggish to respond to them , and record a mean temperature only .
When the pans are being loaded or unloaded , the variations in the temperature of the two arms are , as we should naturally expect , largely increased ; and if a weighing is effected immediately after the necessary weights have been placed upon the pan , there is considerable uncertainty as to the true weight of the object under measurement .
For accurate weighing , the final observations should not he taken before some 10 to 15 minutes have elapsed after loading .
Other experiments appear to prove that the knife-edge blocks require , not infrequently , some little time to take up a normal position for a given load .
Balances which have their knife-edges attached to the beam in a certain manner often show this kind of defect somewhat markedly .
When it is required to determine the mass of a body with the highest degree of accuracy , it is necessary to fatigue the balance-beam by allowing it to swing freely for some time after the object and weights have been placed upon the pans .
The time required to reduce a balance to a normal condition in this way , depends both upon the instrument and upon its load .
It was found that some balances may he completely fatigued within a few minutes , while others require a more prolonged period .
So far as T am able to judge from my own observations , it appears that from 10 to 20 minutes are generally sufficient for the purpose .
Any abnormal temperature effects that may he produced whilst the pans are being loaded will also die away during the time required for fatiguing the beam .
It ; was also found that the resting-point changes in a perfectly regular manner with an increase or decrease in the temperature of the beam .
The magnitude of the change depends upon the type of the balance and its load ; also , two different balances of the same type and by one maker may have totally different temperature coefficients .
The temperature coefficients appear to be best represented by an equation of the form M = Mi ( 1 \#177 ; a / 3t2 ) , in which M and Mi are respectively the true and apparent masses , and \#171 ; and / 3 are factors which must be determined for different loads and for each balance .
It is also shown that a distinct advantage is gained and some marked irregularities avoided , by surrounding the beam with an extra inner case consisting of metal , wood , and plate glass .
By the introduction of this device , the beam is permanently screened from heat ladiations and The Damping of Sound Frothy Liquids .
39 ] , convection currents , even when the ordinary shutter of the balance case is lifted .
An additional advantage is gained by placing a differential bolometer within the inner or beam case ; for we are then enabled to ascertain , at any time , whether the temperature of the two arms is uniform or not .
Some few of the numerous results are represented graphically rather than in tabular form .
In this way the facts to which it is desired to draw attention are brought out more clearly and prominently .
The dispositions and forms of the apparatus used are shown in diagrams ; the efficiencies of the various forms of knife-edges employed in balances are also discussed .
The Damping of Sound by Frothy Liquids .
By A. Mallock , F.R.S. ( Received May 26 , \#151 ; Read June 23 , 1910 .
) The fact that a tumbler containing a frothy liquid gives a dull sound when struck is familiar to every one , but I cannot find that any explanation of the rapid damping of the vibrations , which is indicated by the character of the sound , has been published .
The converse case , namely , that of waves propagated through a gas in which small solid or liquid spheres are disseminated , has received considerable attention , and the results deduced , which agree with observation , are to the effect that although the presence of small obstacles does cause some damping , it is very small in amount .
I think there can be little doubt that the excessive damping in the case where the obstacles are gaseous , and the intervening spaces filled with liquid , is due to the augmentation of the distortion of the latter caused by the variation of pressure acting mainly on the volume of the gas .
When no gas bubbles are present in a liquid transmitting vibrations , distortion accompanies changes of pressure , but the rate at which shear takes place is of the order amplitude -r- wave-length , and in liquids the velocity of transmission is large , and also the wave-length in cases where the frequency is that of an audible note .
On the other hand , if bubbles of gas are present the variation of pressure acts almost entirely on the volume of the gas , and scarcely at all on the relatively incompressible liquid .
Thus , if S , fig. 1 , be part of the surface of

