496 Prof. S. Arrhenius .
[ June 2 , product of the slowly changing elements uranium , thorium , or actinium present in pitchblende .
It was arranged that Mr. Soddy should examine whether radium is produced from uranium , but the results so far obtained have been negative .
I have taken solutions of thorium nitrate and the " emanating substance " of Giesel ( probably identical with the actinium of Debierne ) freed from radium by chemical treatment , and placed them in closed vessels .
The amount of radium present is experimentally determined by drawing off the emanation at regular intervals into an electroscope .
A sufficient interval of time has not yet elapsed to settle with certainty whether radium is being produced or not , but the indications so far obtained are of a promising character .
" On the Electric Equilibrium of the Sun .
" By Svante Arrhenius .
Communicated by Sir William Huggins , Pres. R.S. Received and read June 2 , 1904 .
In recent years many attempts have been made to apply the pressure of radiation , that is a consequence of the theories of Maxwell and Bartoli , to the explanation of cosmical phenomena .
Especially the enigma of the nature of comets ' tails has been elucidated from this new point of view .
In a memoir presented to the Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1899 , I pointed out that several electric and magnetic phenomena , especially auroras and magnetic storms , might also be connected with the pressure of radiation .
C. T. R. Wilson found that the negative ions condense vapours more easily than do positive ions .
Without doubt the gases in the atmosphere of the sun are practically ionised by the ultra-violet radiation .
Therefore we have to suppose , that among the little drops formed by condensation in the sun 's atmosphere far more are negatively charged than are positively charged .
As these drops are driven away by the pressure of radiation they charge with negative electricity the atmospheres of celestial bodies , e.g. , the earth , which they meet , till the charge is so great that discharges occur , and cathode rays are formed , which carry the charge back to the universe .
A calculation of the speed , with which these particles move through space , will not be without interest .
Suppose first , for simplicity , that the pressure of radiation is double that of the weight of the particles in the neighbourhood of the sun .
It is not difficult to calculate , that in this case the time , necessary for the particle 's passage from the surface of the sun to the earth , amounts to 68 hours .
The specific weight is supposed to be that of water .
Now , after Schwarzschild 's calculations , a perfectly reflecting drop 1904 .
] On the Electric Equilibrium of the Sun .
497 will be driven away Avith the greatest force from the sun if its circumference is just as great as the wave-length of the radiation .
The wave-length of the maximal radiation of the sun is about O'o / x. Therefore the optimal dimension for a drop , that is driven away by the pressure of radiation , will be about 0'06 y. If we suppose a specific weight of the drop like that of water , the repulsive force for a perfectly reflecting drop amounts to about ten times its weight .
For a perfectly black drop it is half as great .
Now , most drops are neither perfectly reflecting nor perfectly black .
Most fluids absorb nearly completely the nonduminous radiation , and reflect a part of the other .
An appreciation of these two factors leads to the estimation that the effect for the translucent fluids will be about half as great as for a perfectly black body , i.e. , about 2*5 times greater than the gravity against the sun .
Such a particle will move away from the sun with 15 times greater speed than that calculated above , i.e. , it will reach the earth in about 46 hours .
Of course , there may be represented speeds that are more than the double this for drops of low specific weight ( compounds of carbon and hydrogen ) .
On the other hand , the speed may be extremely little ( or negative ) , for drops of high specific weight ( .
, gold ) .
This will also be the case for great or very small drops , as Schwarzschild has shown .
These figures have recently acquired a great interest through the discussion by Ellis , Maunder , and Riced of the connection between sunspots and magnetic storms .
Riced had already , in 1892 , stated that in six cases of very strong magnetic storms , these appeared in mean 45 '5 hours after the passage of a great sunspot over the central meridian of the sun .
In one case the difference of time was only 20 hours .
From the researches of Ellis and Maunder it appears that the magnetic storms commence in mean 26 hours after the great groups of sunspots , which probably caused them , had passed the central meridian of the sun .
Riced applies a correction to these figures .
He says that in mean the great magnetic storms , quoted by Ellis and Maunder , lasted for 33 hours , and therefore it is natural to assume that the maximum of the magnetic storm , which will probably fall near its middle , arrives 16'5 hours after its commencement .
It will , therefore , be nearly true that the maximum of the magnetic storms observed by Ellis , came 26 + 16-5 = 42-5 hours after the passage of the corresponding spot through the central meridian of the sun .
The figure very nearly coincides with those of Riced and also with that calculated above .
Riced also makes the observation that the velocity of the small particles , which in my opinion cause the auroras and the magnetic storms , is of the same order of magnitude as the observed velocity with which the cause of these perturbations moves from the sun .
Prof. S. Arrhenius .
[ June 2 , w If the sun only emitted negatively electrified particles on all sides , it would soon assume so great an electric charge of positive sign , that the electric forces would hold the negative particles hack in the neighbourhood of the sun .
There must , therefore , be some cause that carries back as much negative electricity to the sun as it loses through the emission of negative particles .
In supposing the least negative charge to be the same as the positive one of a hydrogen atom , weighing 8 x 10-25 grammes , it may be calculated that the force with which this is drawn back to the sun by a potential slope of 3000 volt per cm .
, amounts to 23'2 dynes .
A drop of radius 008 n , of the specific weight of water , has the weight 59 x 10"10 dynes at the surface of the sun .
Its repulsion by the pressure of radiation is about 2'5 times greater , 148 x 10-10 dynes .
The electric attraction is therefore only about the fourth part of the total force by which the drop is driven away from the sun ; therefore its speed is only three-fourths of that calculated before .
It is evident that if the electric charge of the sun , or rather of its upper atmosphere , is much greater ( about four times ) than that supposed , no negatively charged particles can be emitted from the sun .
On the other hand , if the sun 's charge is less , the particles will move with a speed that is nearly independent of the magnitude of the charge .
Probably the charge of the sun in times of great emission , i.e. , at sun-spot maxima , will be of this order of magnitude , and in times of sun-spot minima somewhat less .
The charged particles are driven out to all sides from the sun .
It might , perhaps , be expected that they would lose their electric charge under the influence of the strong ultra-violet radiation from the sun .
But the circumstances must be other for these small particles than for great pieces that are examined in our laboratories .
Otherwise it would be impossible to conceive that drops are condensed at all on the negatively charged electrons under the influence of ultra-violet light* But if many drops agglomerate together , the potential increases and greater pieces are formed , which can lose their charge gradually .
According to the experiments of Elster and Geitel , and Lenard , these charged bodies part slowly with their negative charge in the form of electrons that traverse space .
The path of these electrons is now influenced by the strongly positively charged suns .
Their paths become by this influence curved , and they describe hyperbolas round the suns .
If their perihelial distance is less than the sun 's radius , they fall down on the sun , and diminish its positive charge .
If we now suppose the electric charge of the sun to be just as great * As the first drops contain only one elementary charge of electricity , they would lose their whole charge at once at a discharge .
Perhaps this circumstance causes the difference for elementary and great charges .
m | 1904 .
] On the Electric Equilibrium of the Sun .
499 I ; as assumed above , we find that electrons moving with the velocity of light are caught by the sun , if the asymptote of their hyperbolic path [ is less distant from the sun than 2420 times the mean distance of the |f earth from the sun ( or one twenty-fourth of a light-year ) .
This limit I distance is inversely proportional to the velocity of the electrons , and I nearly proportional to the square-root of the charge of the sun .
As | now , according to the researches of Lenard , the electrons from a I negatively electrified body possess a much less velocity than light , this distance is really much greater than that just calculated .
If , for instance , the velocity of the electrons is the thirtieth part of I that of light , a number that is in good agreement with Lenard 's | measurements , all electrons from space which came along a path I that is less distant than 1 '25 light-year from the sun , will be caught by | the sun .
Of course the electrons move with different velocity , so that | the said distance may only be regarded as a mean , or as representing 1 the order of magnitude .
Now our nearest star ( a Centauri ) is distant from us by about 4 light-years , and other stars lie within less than 10 light-years .
Thus it is evident that the negative electrons , which are sent off from aggregates of negatively charged drops ( these aggregates are probably identical with what we call cosmic dust or meteorites ) , can I in general not pass by many suns without being caught by them .
And on the other hand the suns recover in mean from space as much negative electricity as they lose .
The electric charges of I the suns are in this respect very effective regulators .
If the charge is I quadrupled the mean distance of the caught electrons is doubled , or , I in other words , as they are uniformly disseminated in space , their quantity is quadrupled .
Therefore the supply of negative electricity to \ the suns is proportional to their defect thereof .
From these considerations we see that a very effective balance of ' gains and losses of negative electricity is maintained .
Evidently this | balance depends upon the supposition that for the particles that drive t away from the sun , other forces than the electric , viz. , the pressure of radiation , are preponderating , whilst for the negative electrons caught ?
; by the sun , other forces than the electric are wholly insignificant B compared with these .
If one supposed , as some authors do , that the negative electricity I was carried away from the sun by means of cathode rays , an effective I circulation'like that described above would be wholly impossible .
VOL. LXXIII .

