IV .
" Report to the Royal Society of the Expedition into the Kingdom of Naples to investigate the circumstances of the Earthquake of the 16th December 1857 .
" By ROBERT MALLET , Esq. , C.E. , F.R.S. ( Abstract .
) The region examined in this expedition , embraces , in its widest extent , most of the country between a line drawit from Terraciiia to CQargano on the north , down to the Gnlf of Tarenturm on the south .
The earthquake , the greatest that has occurred in Italy since that of 1783 , was felt over nearly the whole of the Peninsula south of Terracina and Gargano .
Its area of greatest destruction ( the meizoseismal area ) , within which nearly all the towns were wholly demolished , was an oval whose major axis was in a direction N.W. and S.E. nearly , and about 25 geog .
miles in length by 10 geog .
miles in width .
The first isoseismal area beyond this , within which buildings were everywhere more or less prostrated and people killed , is within an oval of about 60 geog .
miles by 35 geog .
miles ; the second isoseismal is also an oval within which buildings were everywhere fissured , but few prostrated and few or no lives lost .
The third isoseismal embraces a greatly enlarged area , within which the earthquake was everywhere perceived by the unassisted senses , but did not produce injury .
A fourth isoseismal was partially traced , within which the shock was capable of being perceived by instrumental means , and which probably reached beyond Rome to the northward .
The author divides his Report into three parts .
In the first he has developed the methods of investigation which he pursued for the purpose of finding the directions of movement of the wave of shock at various points , and thence to determine-Ist .
The point upon the earth 's surface vertically over the centre of effort or focal point , whence the earthquake impulse was delivered ; 2nd , the depth below the surface ( or rather sea-level ) of the focal point itself .
The line passing through both these points he calls the seismic vertical .
The author points out , that of the three elements of the earthquake-wave , viz. the velocity of transit , the velocity of the wave-particle ( or wave itself ) , and the direction of motion at each point of the seismic area , the first alone in other instances has hitherto been attempted to be determined , the velocity of the wave and that of its transit being apparently confounded , and any attempt at direction confined to the apparent path on the surface .
He then shows that every displaced object is in fact a seismometer , and that the displacement of regular bodies , such as buiildings or their parts , may be made , by examination of their conditions after the shock , and the application of the principles of dynamics , to give precise information as to the true directions in azimuth and angles of ernergence at various points of the wave , and its velocity at those points .
The effects produced , which are mainly available for such determinations , he shows are divisible into four great classes:-l st. Fissures or fractures produced in buildings , from whose direction , &amp;c. that of the wave-path at the point nay be discovered : under this head the author has minutely described and figured the forms and peculiarities of fractures produced in all classes of buildings in the region examined .
The principles deduced being universally applicable , he has shown the choice and precautions , &amp; e. as to those best fitted for seismic observation , and given formula for the deductioi of the wave-paths , i. e. the direction in which the wave movement at the point emerges .
Velocity may also be determined from fissures ; but this is more accurately ascertained from , 2nd , the overthrow of bodies , such as columns , piers , walls , &amp;c. , either fractured at their bases or simply overturned .
3rd .
Fractures at the base without sensible movement , or with oscillation within an observed arc short of overthrow .
4th .
The displacement of bodies by throw or projection , such as vases , finials , balustrades , bells , coping-stones , tiling , &amp;c. from elevated points , in which , where the vertical height fallen , and the horizontal range are observed , the velocity can be determined or the direction of the wave-path and the angle of emergence of the wave ; in certain cases all of these classes of displacement may occur variously combined .
All these resolve themselves into fracturing forces , the movements of compouInd pendulums , and those of projectiles ; and in arranging the formuae for application , the author acknowledges the important assistance rendered him by his frienid the Rev. S. Ilaughtoin , Professor of Geology in the University of Dublin .
The author concludes the first part by a description of the characteristics of the towns and cities , buildingS , &amp;c. in the region examined , of the physical features , the orographic and surface configuration , and the geological structure of the south of Italy as embraced in his investigation .
The second part embraces the applicationi of these methods of investigation , and the complete detail of the observations made by the author in his journey from point to point , -- the working out at many separate points of the directions of the wave-paths and angles of emergence and wave-velocities , the explications of the nu merous and frequently singular and at first appareintly perplexing eircumstances , producing abrrupt changes in the local intensity of seismic effects observed , the description generally of the places examined and phenomena observed , embracing many examples of fissures in earth or rock , falls of rock , laindslips , changes of water-courses , &amp;c. , and the explanation of their conditions , the observations continually made to correct the magnetic declination for the observations of wave-path by compass , the hypsometric determinations by the barometer of many points of elevation , -geological sectionls over certain parts of the country examined , the time observations obtained for deternmination of transit velocity .
The descriptions are illustrated by numerous sketches made by the author on the spot , by diagrams and topical maps , and by a large series of photographs , made under the author 's instructions , by a photographer who followed in his track .
In the appendices to this part the author has given translations of all the notices that appeared in the ' Giornale Reale ' ( the only Neapolitan newspaper ) , of the eveiits of the shock , with tables of the meteorology of Naples , from those of the Royal Marine Observatory , for certain periods before , during and after the shock ; also returns of the population , area , damage , deaths and number of wounded persons in the shaken provinces .
In the third and colncluding part the author colligates all his facts , classifies them , and draws his conclusions and generalizations under the following heads : a. The superficial positioni of the seismic vertical .
This , the author shows from the independent and concurrent evidence of above 70 separate wave-paths , was close to the village of Caggiano , near the E. extremity of the valley of the Salaris ; the evidence being of a highly culmulative character , as the intersection of two wavepaths only is sufficient to determine this point .
6 .
The depth of the focal point below the sea-level .
This , the author shows , was about 5L geographical miles , i. e. the mean focal depth .
c. The forms and areas of the meizoseismal and the several isoseismal curves .
These have been laid down by the author upon three large maps , protracted fr'om Zanlnoni 's great map of the kinigdom of the Two Sicilies , upon a scale of more than half an inch to the geographical mile .
Of these , the map A shows the wave-paths as determnined in azimuth , and their close concurrence at the seismic vertical , the position of all the points of observation , and the axial lines of the great mountain ranges .
The map B gives the physical features of the country , and the four first isoseismal curves ; distinguiishing the injuries done to the numerous cities and towns , &amp;c. by separate colours .
Upon both maps the probable horizoDtal form of the focal cavity is marked , which coordinates with the existing lines of dislocation of the coultry in a remarkable manner .
The map C gi-es the whole of the isoseismals for this earthquake , and compares t'hem with the corresponlding seismal curves ( so far as these can be obtained from the narratives ) , for a number of the greatest earthquakes on record which have occurred in the Italian Peninsula , including that of 1 783 .
d. The effects of the physical configuration of the surface and formations beneath , on the progress of the wave of shock , are discussed , and the peculiar oval forms and the directions of the major axes accounted for .
e. The effects are pointed out , of the form and position of the focal cavity in modifying the distance of tranlsmission of the wave of given effort in different directions .
f. Applies the results to showing the actual conformity of the isoseismal curves to the principles enunciated .
g. Under this head the author explains the nature of the separate system of wave-paths for Naples City , and the surrouniding district , which only received the shock by transmission of refracted and transversal waves passed through the AMonte St. Angelo range of mounitains , with erntire change of direction .
A. Colligates the facts ascertained as to the sounds beard with the shock at various points round the seismic vertical , and points out the remarkable relations that the prolongation of the soaind more or less at different points bears to the direction in length and in depth of the focal cavity , and generally the causes of the diversity of sounds heard at various points around earthquake centres .
i. Discusses and points out the nature and correspondence with the dynamic laws of wave motions , of the tremors that preceded and followed the great shock , and generally the causes inducing , such in all earthquakes .
k. Refers to the ascertained phenomenat of reiterated or dloi-uble shock at certain places , and points out the combiniations , having reference to surface configuration chiefly , producing such from a single central impulse .
Under the section 1 , the whole of the preceding information is combined , to deduce the dimensions , form and subterraneous position of the focal cavity , which the author shows to have been a curved lamellar cavity or fissuire of about 3 geographical miles in depth by 9 geographical miles in length , with an inclinied vertical section , and a mean focal depth ( or depth of its central point of surface ) of 54 geographical miles below the sea .
In section m are discussed , upon the data of hypogeal increment of temperatur e ( as supposed to be ascertained from deep mines and artesialn wells ) , the necessary temperature of the focal cavity , and the intensity of the force that acted within it to produce impulse , assuming that to have been due to steam at high tension , either suddenly developed or suddenly admitted into a fissure rapidly enlarged by rending .
n. Deduices the amplitude of the wave and the work stored up in it on reaching the surface , and compares the former with the observed amplitudes .
o. Deduces the velocity of transit of the wave of shock upon the surface , from the most trustworthy of the observations of time at various localities .
These are founid to corresponid with considerable exactness , and give a transit rate of between 700 and 800 feet per second , as that at which the wave form was propagated from point to point , differing with change of forination by amnounts stated .
p. Deduces the velocity of the wave itself , i. e. that of the wave particle , which is shown to have been in round numbers between 13 and 14 feet per secolnd ( in the directioni of the wave-path ) .
A remarkable relation is poiinted out between this velocity and that recorded for the earthquake of Riobamba , the greatest whose effects have been observed .
The height due to the velocity of this wave is to the altitude of Vesuvius as that due to the velocity recorded of the Riobamba wave is to the mean height of the volcanic shafts of the Andes , and more especially to the height of the volcanic vents nearest to Riobamba .
The author points out that the direct altitude of a volcano is the true measure of the volcanic and seismic energy beneath it , and not its volume , which is a measure both of enlergy and time combinied .
Under section q , he discusses the facts ascertained by him , as to the decay of the wave of shock in relation to superficial distanee from the seismic vertical .
The amplitude of the wave slowly and slightly increases , and its velocity decreases .
The observations are not sufficient to admit of certain deduction as to what function of the distance the law of decay follows .
The lowest velocity at nearly 30 miles from the seismic vertical was still about 11 feet per second .
Under r , the author has discussed systematically the facts ascertained as to the local disturbing cauises producing abrupt perturbations of the wave of shock , and slhown that they are:1 st. Retardation by great fissures or faults , or deep valleys of dislocation ; the effects of these , at about Muro and Bella , amounting almost to sudden extinction of the wave .
2nd .
Alternate cutting off and partial extinctioni by parallel chains of mountains , and the effects of multiplied antiand synclinals .
3rd .
Increment and reduplicationi , with or withlout change of wave-path , by local reflection from mountain masses .
4th .
Effects of friee-lying surfaces ( flanks and extremnities of mnountain ranges ) and nodal points , and production of intersecting secondary shocks , and sudden reductions of energy by entrance of the wave to greatly increased masses .
5th .
Effects of formation ( geological ) , of change from one to another , &amp;c. 6th .
Effects of position of towns and cities on plain and hill , rock or loose material .
Towns on steep rock eminences , such as Saponara , are shown to have suffered from an extreme conjoint velocity , viz. that of the wave itself , and that of the hill-top , oscillating as an elastic penidulum .
Of all these modifving conditions , external contour of surface , and more especially the forms and directions , &amp; e. of mountain masses and deep fissures , are shown to be the most efficient .
The value is shown of contoured maps , models , or other such means of directing the mind to the true figure of the country , in seismic researches .
In the section s , the author arranges and discusses the facts observed by him , as to secondary effects produced by the earthquakes , under the heads of1 .
Earth fissures and landslips .
These are in directionis generally more or less transverse ' to the wave-paths , b)ut conform to and .
are determined by the dip or slope of the subjacent beds of rock .
Earthi fissures are never produced by the direct passsage of the wave of shock .
They are a mere secondary result , and are no more than incipient landslips .
2 .
Rock shattering and falls .
3 .
Alterations of water-courses , muddying of springs , &amp;c. , all of which are shown to be due to the secondary effects of landslips inito their beds , falls of partially loose rock therein producing ponding up and subsequent debacle .
The total modifying effects on the earth 's surface are showni to be insignificant .
No great sea-wave accompanied this shock ; nor was such possible , the focal point being inland .
The author examined with care more than 150 miles of sea-coast , as well as river-courses , for evidence of any pernanent elevation of lanid having taken place concurrently with this earthquake , but found nione .
Earthquakes caninot produce elevations , although the latter have been known to have taken place about the same time as earthquakes and in the same region .
t. Discusses the meteorological phenomena , both during the earthquake or directly after it , and for a prolonged period before it .
Some remarkable relations are pointed out betweeni the disturbance of the annual rainfall previouslv and the occurrence of shocks .
The physical conditions concerned in widely alleged unusual meteoric light , diffused over the central portion of the shaken region at the night of the shock , and of the occurrence of oppressive heat , &amp;c. , are discussed ; and under u , the premonitory and other effects on lower animals , of nausea in men , &amp;c. , are considered .
v. Points out that the method of investigation pursued , enables deductions even now to be drawn from ancient fissures , &amp;c. , as to the focal centres of earthquakes occurring at very remote periods .
In map D , the lines of loci of the focal points for the whole of the Italiani peninsula are , as far as practicable , laid down , and their general connexion with the seismic bands of the Mediterranean Basin ( as deduced from the British Associationi Earthquake Catalogue , and its accompanying Seismological M/ lap of the World ) is pointed out ; and some general relations both of the unequal distribution .
of the points of greatest energy along these seismic bands , and of the ulnequlal evolutioni of energy at the same points , in longo periods of time , to the commoni origirn of volcanic and seismic force , and its nature , are pointed out .
Some observations of a practical engineering character are added , as to the proper construction of houses , &amp;c. in earthquake countries , by which the author is satisfied that the disastrous loss of life at intervals recurring might be avoided .
In conclusion , the author returns thanks to various individuals for co-operation in the objects of his expedition , and most especially to his friends Dr. Robinsorn , Prof. Haughton , General Sabinie , Sir Roderick Murchison , and Sir Charles Lyell .
June 7 , 1860 .
The Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows was held this day .
Sir BENJAMIN C. BRODIE , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the Election of Fellows having been read , Sir Philip Egerton and Mr. Babbage were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutineers to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
The votes of the Fellows present having been collected , the President announced that the following gentlemen were duly elected into the Society : Frederick Augustus Abel , Esq. Sir William Jardine , Bart. Thomas Baring , Esq. Thomas Hewitt Kev , Esq. Johni Frederic Bateman , Esq. Joseph Lister , Esq. Edward Browi-Se'quard , M.D. Rev. Robert Main , M.A. Richard Christopher Carrington , Robert William Mylne , Esq. Esq. Roundell Palmer , Esq. , Q.C. Francis Galton , Esq. Johni Thomas Quekett , Esq. Joseph Henry Gilbert , Esq. Edward Smith , M.D.

