On the Formation of Fat in the Intestine of the Tadpole , and on the Use of the Yolk in the Formation of the Embryo in the Egg .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read May 23 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 301 .
] From the smallness of tadpoles in this country , they have not attracted the notice of naturalists so much as their peculiarities deserve .
But those of the Rana paradoxa of Surinam being of a much larger size , are fitter subjects for observation .
The tadpole of this frog bears so strong a resemblance to a fish , that it is commonly sold as such for the use of the table .
But as these are not to be had here in sufficient quantity for examination , the author had recourse to the common tadpole of this country .
This animal , as soon as it leaves the ovum , has ten filaments projecting from the neck on each side , which answer the purpose of gills .
In the young shark , while yet in the egg , there are twenty-four similar filaments to answer the same purpose .
In the common newt also is a similar apparatus , but the number is only three on each side .
In each instance this structure is but temporary , and drops off when the permanent structure of -lungs in the frog , and of gills in the shark , is completely formed .
During the growth of the tadpole its abdomen becomes distended , the intestine being then very capacious , and filled throughout its whole extent with a soft substance , that burns with a vegetable smell .
Behind the intestine , along the posterior part of the abdomen , is accumulated a quantity of fat of a yellow colour , enclosed in long thin transparent membranous bags .
During the conversion of the tadpole into the frog by development of the legs , lungs , and other organs before wanting , the whole of this fatty matter becomes absorbed , in the same manner as the yolk of the hen 's egg is taken up during the progressive growth of the young chicken .
So that although the egg of the frog differs from that of other animals of the same class in having no yolk , a substance corresponding to it appears to be necessary previous to the formation of bones , and other more solid parts of the perfect frog .
For the production of this matter , it is observed that the tadpole is provided with a most uncommon length of intestine , which contracts to one of ordinary size as soon as the full supply of fat is generated .
The author adds the result of various chemical experiments , made by Mr. Hatchett and Mr. Brand on the spawn of the frog , from which it appears , that it is of a nature between gelatin and albumen ; that it contains no concrete oil like that of the hen 's egg ; that the ova of the lizard and snake , and of cartilaginous fishes , have , on the contrary , yolks which do .
contain a concrete oil , that in its : nutritive qualities corresponds to the butyraceous part of milk with which the young of viviparous animals are supported for a certain time after birth .
From these observations , and from the peculiar provision of fat laid up by the tadpole previous to its metamorphosis into the frog , Sir Everard Home is led to consider a certain portion of oil as necessary for the formation of bone , and to observe that the proportion of fat in different ova , corresponds with the greater or less degree of hardness of bone that is about to be produced .

