XIII .
" Observations made with the Polariscope during the ' Fox ' Arctic Expedition .
" By DAVID WALKER , M.D. , Surgeon to the Expedition , in a Report transmitted by Sir LEOPOLD MCCLINTOCK .
Cornmunicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received March 7 , 1860 .
The observations made with the polariscope * , with one exception , were confined to solar halos and parhelia .
Several times I tried the instrument when lunar halos appeared , but the light was so faint that only once was I able to make an observation .
The direction of the polarization was the same in all the cases observed , namely , in a plane parallel to a line joining the part looked at with the centre of the sun or moon .
In several instances the instrument was turned round so as to find the plane of maximulm polarization , but it was always found greatest in the parAael or perpendicular plane : when the plane was oblique , no perceptible polarization at all was perceived .
The lighit was never completelJy polarized , the greatest amount not being more than half ; such occurred on 21st of April , and 5th and 6th of May 1859 .
All the halos observed had a diameter of about 45 ?
: there were some seen of diameter 90 ?
, but the polariscope was not at hand at the time .
Almost always the halos rouind the moon or sun were more or less prismatic , red internal .
The observation on October 10th , 1857 , was not on a halo , but the cloud which surrounded the moon at a distance of about lIhad circular and prismatic edges ; light from these edges was slightly polarized , but not of the same image as in all the other instances .
Moon .
October 7th , 185 7.-Polariscope applied to a halo round the moon , diameter about 450 ; slight polarization ; arrow and brighter image both being to the left when the instrument was held parallel to a line joining a part of halo to the left of the moon with the moon .
October 10th , 1857.-Polariscope applied to a prismatic luminous haze round the moon , three diameters of moon 's radius ; slight polarization , the image to the right hand being brighter , mark on eye-end to left hand ; instrument held horizontal , looking at the haze to the right of the moon .
Suin .
March 18th , 1858.-Prismatic halo round the sun 's diameter about 450 , with two parhelia , one on each side of the sun ; instrument applied to the left parhelion ; slight polarizationl , the outer or left image being brighter when the instrument was held in a plane parallel to a line joining the sun and parhelion , the eye-mark and brighter image both to the left .
May 15th , 1858.-Prismatic halo round sun , diameter about 450 , with two parhelia , one on each side .
The instrument held in same azimuth as last observation , looking at left parhelion ; a little stronger polarization , the outer image being brighter .
May 25th , 1858.-Appearances in neighbourhood of sun and parA .
Sun 's altittude , 39ยง 15 ' .
B. Circle running round heavens , 1010 diam. C. Circle 22 ' in radius , passing round A and intersecting B. D. A parhielion occurring on circle C. E. An oval arc , radius horizontally 270 30 ' , perpendicularly 22 ? .
F. Parhelion occurring on circle C. G. Part of a circle passiuig through F , 170 15 ' above horizon .
H and I. Two parhelia on horizontal cirtcle ( 101 ' diameter ) , each distant from sun 250 30 ' .
helia at 145 P.M.:-Sun 's altitude 390 15 ' .
A circle of diameter l0I ' running rounid heavens and passing through the sun , intersected by another circle , radius 220 , having the sun for its centre .
Another intersection took place at 27ยง 30 ' from the sun , on each side , by an arc ( perpendicular ) , which coincided with the previous circle at an altitude of 22 ?
from the sun .
Four parhelia appeared , one on each side of the sun , one above and one below ; through the lower one passed part of an arc of another circle .
Polariscope applied to leftside parhelion and also to halo , slight polarization of outer or left image ; instrument held in a plane parallel to a line joining parhelion and sun .
July 16th , 1858 , 10 40 P.M.-Prismatic parhelia 220 30 ' on each side of sun ; altitude 7 ? .
Polariscope held in a parallel plane ; parhelion on left of sun looked at ; slight polarization ; bright image and eye-mark both to the left hand .
November 8th , 1858 , 10 A.M.-Prismatic parhelion distant about 230 from each side of sun ; altitude 6 ? .
Polariscope applied to left image , held horizontally ( parallel ) , eye-mark to left ; slight polarization , image to left and further from sun brighter .
Instrument held in same plane , but with eye-mark to right , applied to right parhelionl ; similar slight polarization , image to right and furthest from the sun brighter .
March 30th , 1859 , 4 P.M.-Prismatic parhelia about 23 ?
distant from each side of sun .
Polariscope applied to image on left of the sun , held parallel , eye-mark to left ; slight polarization , image to left and further from the suni brighter .
Instrument held in same plane , but eye-mark to right ; slight polarization , image to right and outer being the brighter .
April 21st , 1859 , 7 P.M.-Prismatic parhelion and part of halo on each side of sun distant about 22ยง 30 ' .
Polariscope applied to left-hand image , held in a parallel plane , eye-mark to left ; mnedium polarization , the left or outer image brighter .
Instrument held in same plane with eye-mark to right , and applied to right-hand image ; similar medium polarization , image to right and further from the sun brighter .
May 1st , 1859 , 6 P.M.-Prismatic parhelion with part of a halo on each side of sun distant 230 ( about ) .
Polariscope applied to left image , held parallel , eye-mark to left ; slight polarization , left or outer image brighter .
Instrument held in same plane , eye-mark to right and applied to right image ; slight polarization , outer or right image being brighter .
May 5th , 1859 , 8 P.M.-Prismatic parhelion with part of halo on each side of suni distant about 220 30 ' .
Polariscope applied to left image , held in a parallel plane , eye-mark to left ; medium polarization , left or outer image brighter .
Instrument held in same plane and applied to right image , eye-mark to right ; similar medium polarization , outer or right image brighter .
May 6th , 1859 , 6350 P.m.-Prisrnatic parhelion and part of halo on each side of sunl distant 220 20 ' .
Polariscope applied to left image and held in a parallel plane , eve-mark to left ; medium polarization , outer or left image being brighter .
Instrument held in same plane , eye-mark to right , and applied to the right parhelion ; similar medium polarization , right or outer image being brighter .
May 20th , 1859 , 8 P.M.--Prismatic arc of halo to left of sun distant about 23 ? .
Polariscope applied , held in the parallel plane , eye-mark to left ; slight polarization , the outer or left image being brighter .
August 7th , 1859 , 7 30 P.M.-Prismnatic parhelion to right of sun , distant about 220 30 ' .
Polariscope applied , held in the plane of a line joining sun and parhelion ; a little more polarization than in last observation .
Arrow and brigihter imnage both to the right .

