Prof. F. Smith .
[ June 20 , from any change of habit on the part of the Fish , ceased to exist ; and hence the widespread degeneracy of that organ .
( III .
) In all the Siluridse normales the air-bladder is a rudimentary and more or less fnnctionless structure , and the numerous modifications which it presents in this group afford abundant illustrations of the extreme variability to which all degenerate organs are liable .
( IY .
) As far as the evidence at our command will enable us to generalise , it seems extremely probable that the degeneracy of the air-bladder in the S. normales is due to their assumption of a ground habit , whereby the continued existence of an air-bladder , capable of functioning as a hydrostatic apparatus , is rendered unnecessary .
( Y. ) That inasmuch as the assumption of a ground habit is almost invariably attended by degeneration of the air-bladder , which must have the effect of rendering the Weberian apparatus inoperative , it seems to us a reasonable inference that the mechanism in question is related neither to the function of audition as Weber contended , nor to the appreciation of varying atmospheric pressures , as suggested by Sagemehl , but rather to the perception of the varying hydrostatic pressures to which the Fish is continually exposed .
( Hasse s theory ) .
( VI .
) Certain facts appear to throw some light on the nature of the Weberian ossicles .
The discovery of ascending processes to the intercalaria , which form part of the wall of the neural canal , and are interposed between the foramina for the exit of the second and third special nerves , is confirmatory of the view , first suggested by Baudelot and supported by Ramsay Wright , that the ossicles in question represent the metamorphosed neural arch of the second vertebra .
The mode .
of origin of the tripodes in if not due to secondary fusion with the arch of the complex vertebra , but to the retention of a primitive continuity , is also confirmatory of the views of the same morphologists , that those ossicles represent the transverse processes of the third vertebra .
VIII .
" The Chemistry of the Urine of the Horse .
" By Fred Smith , M.R.C.V.S. , F.I.C. , Army Veterinary Department , Professor , Army Veterinary School , Aldershot .
Communicated by Sir William Aitken , F.R.S. Received June 20 , 1889 .
I have attempted in the following paper to record the results obtained from a series of analyses of the urine of the horse in health .
When I first commenced my subject I was under the impression 1889 .
] The Chemistry of the Urine of the Horse .
that , with the exception of the following references , * the literature of the subject was remarkably bare .
It is true that nothing had been done in England , but on the Continent , in Germany in particular , the urine of the horse has received especial consideration .
My attention was later called to the following references.- !
My difficulty at starting was to obtain the whole twenty-four hours ' urine ; for this purpose I constructed a stall with sides which sloped towards the centre ; running down the centre was a covered drain , the cover being perforated , and arranged in segments so as to allow of thorough cleaning ; this drain led to the rear of the stall , and emptied into a vessel sunk in the ground suitably protected against ingress of foreign material .
The entire apparatus was made in cast iron , and protected against rust .
The arrangement was found to give absolute satisfaction .
This plan of collecting the urine is nothing like so complicated as that used by Munk and others in Germany , which consists of a bag into which the penis is placed , the bag being secured by numerous straps around the belly and between the thighs .
There are very few English horses which would allow such an apparatus as Munk 's to be strapped under the belly .
I shall use this appliance to collect the urine from sick animals , for it is likely that these will not object to wear Munk 's contrivance .
The horse to be experimented upon was previously weighed , when considered necessary , and was then placed in this stall and tied up for twenty-four hours ; the stall was made very narrow so that the animal could not possibly shift from his position .
To keep the faeces out of the drain , a little clean straw was put down .
One great object I had in view in making these experiments was to ascertain the difference between the urine of work and that of repose .
The only way in which I could get approximate results with regard to the former was by working the animal for one or more days , and then collecting the urine for the last twenty-four hours ; I always took the precaution of ascertaining in every case the urine of repose after at least two or three days ' rest .
The total number of complete analyses made was fifty-four , and these extended over a period of two years ; the total number of Urines examined was ninety-six .
Influence of season , work , diet , sex , age , \amp ; c. , were most carefully observed .
Hone of my results were * ' Animal Chemistry ' ( Liebig ) ; Thomson 's ' Animal Chemistry ' ( Foureroy and Yauquelin ) ; Colin 's ' Physiologic Comparee ' ( Boussingault ) ; 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1806 ( Brand ) ; ' Physiological Chemistry ' ( Lehmann ) ; Simon 's ' Chemistry .
' f Salkowski , ' Zeitschrift fur Physiologische Chemie , ' vol. 9 , 1885 ; Munk , * Archiv fur Anatomy und Physiologie , Physiol. Abth .
, ' 1880 , Suppl.-Heft ; Tereg and Munk , ibid. ; O. Kellner , ' Landwirthschaftliche Jahrbiicker , ' vols .
8 and 9 ; Siedamgrotzky and Hoffmeister , ' Elementsd'Analyse Chimique ; ' J. Tereg , ' Ency-klopi'idie der gesammten Thierheilkunde und Tkierzucht ' ( " Ilarn " ) .
Prof. F. Smith .
[ June 20 , calculated until the inquiry was completed ; it was then observed that the composition of healthy horse 's urine will vary within wide limits , and that even from day to day the same horse will excrete a fluid of very varying composition , though his condition of diet , \amp ; c. , remains absolutely the same .
I am not prepared at present to offer an explanation of this condition , which so seriously affects my tables of mean results as to render them only approximately true .
Physical Characters of the Urine .
Turbidity.\#151 ; The normal urine is invariably turbid , due to the suspension of the carbonates of lime and magnesia which precipitate themselves in still greater abundance as the urine cools and stands , and undergoes ammoniacal fermentation .
The amount of salts in suspension is in some cases remarkable , the most common being the carbonates of lime and magnesia , which I have in the majority of my analyses estimated separately as suspended lime and magnesia .
Boiling the urine by driving off C02 precipitates more of the lime salts .
In one or two cases after the urine had stood some days , a hard scum , quite crystalline , has formed on its surface ; this has consisted of crystals of lime carbonate .
Only once in ninety-six observations had I a perfectly clear urine presented for examination , a urine which threw down no deposit on cooling and standing , and was in most of its physical features closely allied to human urine .
Smell.\#151 ; Perfectly fresh urine has a faint but distinctly ammoniacal smell ; the fluid which represents the twenty-four hours ' excretion is always powerfully ammoniacal .
This latter creates a difficulty with regard to the determination of urea , for it is impossible to say how much of the ammonia is due to changes in the urea , and how much is preformed ammonia .
I have always felt this a trouble throughout the work , but will later explain how I have endeavoured to overcome it .
Reaction.\#151 ; This is always alkaline , sometimes faintly , but in the majority of cases strongly so .
The alkalinity shown by test papers is produced by a fixed and by a volatile substance\#151 ; the volatile is the ammonia , the fixed is probably a salt of potash .
It is obvious that the amount of volatile alkalinity present depends greatly upon the time of year , the condition of the urine ( those containing most mucus containing most volatile alkalinity ) , and the length of time which has elapsed before the estimation is made .
As remarked in the last paragraph , how much of the volatile alkalinity in urine twenty-four hours old is due to preformed ammonia , and how much to the ammonia formed at the expense of the urea , it is difficult to determine ; it is probable , however , that the preformed ammonia in urine is given 1889 .
] The Chemistry of the Urine of the Horse .
off in twenty-four hours .
Calculated as ammonia , the mean volatile alkalinity in twenty-four hours old urine amounts to 7T016 grams for work and 7'8534 for rest ; these amounts I have added on to the urea , as I am convinced from long observation that they are formed from this substance .
The fixed alkalinity expressed in terms of KHO gives a mean of 2'954 grams in urine twenty-four hours old , but in jmrfectly fresh urine it is equivalent to 4'8856 grams of KHO in twenty-four hours ; this latter is probably too high .
Consistence.\#151 ; A large quantity of mucus in the urine is by no means an uncommon condition ; this is particularly the case in mares , the urine being so thick and tenacious ( more like linseed oil in consistence ) that it takes some hours to get sufficient through the filter for analysis .
The smaller the bulk of fluid excreted , the larger the amount of mucus it contains ; it then becomes sticky and difficult to work with , still , it is a perfectly natural condition .
In a urine of average consistence I have found 2T9 grams of mucus , and in one very tenacious 3T396 grams in twenty-four hours .
Specific Gravity.\#151 ; The mean specific density is 1036 , the highest registered was 1050 and the lowest 1014 .
The formulae of Trapp and Christison will not apply to the urine of the horse .
Solids calculated by these give untrustworthy results .
Quantity of JJrine.\#151 ; The mean amount of fluid exci'eted by working horses is 4474 c.c. and in animals that rest 4935 c.c. The largest amount produced in twenty-four hours was 11,300 c.c. , and the smallest quantity secreted 2000 c.c. Neither season , sex , or age produced any effect on the quantity of fluid secreted .
In thirteen observations on the same horse , embracing both hot and cold weather , the largest quantities passed , amounting to over 10 litres , were produced during warm summer months .
I place , however , no stress on this observation ; probably in another series of experiments the results would be reversed .
It is obvious that much of the bulk of fluid secreted will depend upon the quantity consumed .
It is notorious that working horses are often stinted in their water .
In one very careful experiment , where all the water was measured , it was found that more urine was excreted during the twenty-four hours subsequent to work than was excreted after absolute rest for one week .
The water of the twenty-four hours ' urine equals } to j of the water drunk .
Chemical Characters of the Urine .
Total Solids.\#151 ; The mean amount of solids excreted by horses at rest was 2300713 grams ; of these the combustible solids are represented by 146T649 and the ash by 83'9064 grams .
The total solids of Prof. F. Smith .
[ June 20 , work are 232*157 grams , the organic solids 1*52*190 grams , and the ash 79*967 grams .
Great variation both at rest and work is observed in the total solids , even where the diet remains the same .
The nature of the diet , according to Tereg , * considerably influences the amount of the urinary solids excreted , as shown in the following table:\#151 ; Daily ration .
Solids in tliG urine .
r Hay .
Oats .
Wheat straw .
grains .
8 kilos .
2 kilos .
566*6 7 " 2 99 1 kilo .
529 *4 6 " 4 99 511*8 4 " 4 99 2 kilos .
477*0 4 " 6 99 460 *7 1 " 6 99 2*6 " 346 *1 About 90 per cent , of the ash is soluble in water , and 10 per cent , soluble in acid .
In the watery solution of ash we find the chlorides of sodium and potassium , traces of lime , phosphates , magnesia , and sulphates .
In the acid solution lime , magnesia , and sulphates predominate .
On looking at the inorganic solids , they are smaller than I had expected ; the extreme difficulty experienced in incinerating urinary solids causes , undoubtedly , a loss by the volatilisation of the chlorides , \amp ; c. Urea.\#151 ; In calculating the urea we have also to take into consideration the carbonate of ammonia which unavoidably forms during the twenty-four hours the urine is being collected .
To show how much of the urea breaks up owing to fermentation , I have calculated it separately in the table , and then added the two together .
I used Liebig 's method of determination for some time , but it gives too high results .
My most trustworthy observations have been made with the hypo-bromite process .
The influence of rest and work over the production has been most carefully studied .
I originally held the view that more urea was excreted during work than during rest , and a long series of analyses supported this view .
I found , in fact , in tabulating my results that the resting horses excreted on an average 88*41 grams of urea daily , of which 13 778 grams were in the form of ammonia carbonate ; whilst working horses excreted 134*9291 grams , of which 12*4591 grams existed as ammonia carbonate .
The incorrect conclusions which appeared forced on me were due to the fact that the excretion of urea , even on a fixed and rigid diet , is extremely variable , and in the horses from which the above results # ' iincyklopiidie der Gesammten Thierheilkundej ' vol. 4 .
1889.J The Chemistry of the Urine of the Horse .
were obtained I failed to keep any of them long enough under observation to find out this point of variability .
Again , diet influences the production , as proved by the work of Tereg , Munk , and others , who have shown that on a hay diet more nitrogen is excreted than on one containing oats as well as hay ; this seems so opposed to what one would expect that I overlooked the point entirely .
Tereg and Munk put down the amount of urea , as 120 grams excreted daily in a horse weighing 400 kilos .
, the diet being oats ( 4-5 kilos .
) and hay ( 2*5 kilos .
) .
The mean of my own observations is 111 grams ; but urea varies much , even on a fixed diet , in different horses ; in Tereg and Munk 's experiments it varied from 81'5 to 149 5 grams in twenty-four hours .
I experimented on a pony weighing 5 cwt .
21 lb3 .
; the experiments lasted from 2nd February to 29th March , and were divided into periods of rest and work ; the diet throughout remained the same , viz. , hay 7 lbs. , oats 5 lbs. In the first series of rest and work I found that the animal excreted , on an average , for the resting days 63'63 grams urea , and for the working days 72'913 grams .
In the second series of rest and work , all conditions remaining the Same , I found more urea during the resting than daring the working period , viz. , for rest 65"125 grams , and for work 43'33 grams .
Urine of Rest .
Total nitrogen .
Urea .
2nd February . .
60 " 0 grams .
4th " 35 *20 " 62 -5 " 6th " 32-00 " 68 -4 " The animal was now worked from the 7th until the 15th February , and again worked on the 17th and also on the 19th .
Urine of Work .
Total nitrogen .
Urea .
16th February , 63 *0 grams .
18th " 47-71 " 81-37 " 20th " 42-63 " 74-37 " Complete rest was now given until the 23rd February , when the experiments were repeated .
Urine of Rest .
Total nitrogen .
Urea .
23rd February 84 *0 grams .
26th , , 57-10 " 80 -0 " 1st March 31-36 " 56 -0 " 13th " ... 19-00 " 40 -5 " 334 Prof. F. Smith .
[ June 20 , The animal was worked from the 14th until the 24th March , and again on the 26th and 28th March .
Urine of Work .
Total nitrogen .
25th March ... ... ... ... 16 '324 grams .
27th " ... ... ... 25*725 " 29th " ... ..----- 23-000 " Urea .
30 " 25 grams .
52 -25 " 47 -50 " The table clearly shows us how variable is the excretion of urea in spite of the fact that the diet remained the same ; it is evident that the urea in horses is no more a measure of the muscular waste than it is in man .
Kellner 's experiments* are remarkably complete .
He made horses produce a definite amount of work ; the experiment was divided into five periods :\#151 ; Work produced .
Nitrogen produced .
1st Period . . . .
475,000 kilogrammeters 99 " 0 grams .
2nd " . .
950,000 99 109 -3 " 3rd " . .
1,425,000 99 116 -8 " 4th " . .
950,000 99 110 -2 " 5th " . . . .
475,000 99 98 -3 " Here we have a slight increase in the output of nitrogen , quite insufficient to account for the increased work produced .
Hippuric Acid.\#151 ; Owing to the statement made by Liebig that benzoic acid was found in the urine of working horses , and hip-puric in the urine of those which rested\#151 ; a statement which has often been repeated since his time , and almost formulated into the doctrine that benzoic was present in the horses of the poor , whilst hippuric predominated in that of the wealthy X have been at great pains to discover what element of truth the doctrine contained .
The method employed for the determination of benzoic and hippuric acids was the following : The urine is treated with excess of milk of lime , filtered , evaporated to one-fifth of its bulk , and acidified with HC1 .
If hippuric acid be present it forms in some cases almost immediately , but in the majority it has to stand from twelve to twenty-four hours ; if benzoic be present it forms almost at once .
Both acids are in a highly impure condition , the hippuric ( in black seaweed-like masses ) is dissolved in water , boiled , and , whilst boiling , a current of chlorine gas passed through it to destroy the organic matterit is then filtered hot , and deposits pure hippuric acid in fine needles in the course of a few hours .
The impure benzoic is filtered , the solid residue collected in * 4 Landw .
Jahrbueher/ 1879- 1889 .
] The Chemistry of the a capsule , dried at a low temperature , and carefully volatilised , when beautiful white sparkling crystals form , which are carefully removed , collected , and weighed ; or the impure mass may be dissolved in ether , the solution evaporated , and then volatilised .
This volatilisation requires great care to avoid loss .
I have tried many methods of obtaining these acids , but none give such satisfactory results as the above .
The examination of the twenty-four hours ' urine of fifty-four horses revealed the presence of hippuric acid on only eight occasions .
The number of horses at work was seventeen , and out of these I found hippuric acid twice , 2144 grams and 18'6 grams respectively .
The number of hoi'ses standing idle was thirty-seven ; of this number I found hippuric acid six times ; two of these observations I must deduct , as the horses were not in perfect health , leaving four out of thirty-five as the proportion in which hippuric acid was detected .
In a second series of observations consisting of thirty horses , the urine from which was collected and at once submitted to analysis , I found that out of eighteen working horses thirteen had hippuric acid in the urine and five had none .
Out of twelve horses at rest three had hippuric acid and nine had none .
The diet in all cases was the same .
This would appear to reverse Liebig 's theory .
My observations show that hippuric acid is generally found in the urine of working horses\#151 ; seldom found in the urine of resting horses , and that it is rarely found in urine twenty-four hours old .
Diet influences the production of hippuric acid , ancj it is increased by using meadow-hay and oat-straw , and decreased by using clover , peas , wheat , oats , \amp ; c. ; as the urea rises the hippuric acid falls , and vice versa .
( Tereg , * Weiske and Kellner.f ) The mean hippuric acid found was 15'58 grams , the maximum 28'56 , and the minimum 9T8 grams in twenty-four hours .
Salkowski places the hippuric acid at 15'597 grams daily .
Benzoic Acid.\#151 ; Benzoic acid is generally found in stale urine , and in the urine of horses which are doing no work .
It may , however , be found in working horses , or a urine may possess neither hippuric or benzoic acids .
The mean benzoic acid found in resting horses was 6'53 grams , in those at work 3'02 grams in twenty-four hours .
Total Nitrogen.\#151 ; Tn my earlier observations I believed that the nitrogen of work was greater than the nitrogen of rest .
I have explained under urea how I fell into the error , and I have there fully detailed the nitrogen during rest and work in a series of experiments on a pony .
The nitrogen is as variable as the urea ; in my earlier series it varied for horses between 40 and 70 grams per diem .
* 'Encyklopadie , ' \amp ; c. f Watts ' 'Dictionary of Chemistry , ' vol. 8 , Part IT .
VOL. XLVI .
33G Prof. F. Smith .
[ June 20 , Here diet undoubtedly influenced its production\#151 ; as previously pointed out under the head of urea .
E. Salkowski states that a horse fed on 2 kilos , oats , 2 kilos , hay , and 1 kilo , bran , excreted 65'34 grams of total nitrogen in twenty-four hours .
According to Tereg and Munk , when horses are fed on rye instead of hay and oats the nitrogen shows no change , but by feeding with peas the nitrogen increases , and that in proportion to the quantity given .
If fed on hay alone the excreted nitrogen is very great , a fact as pointed out by these observers , which is very difficult of explanation .
Ammonia.\#151 ; This exists in the urine of horses free and combined ; the latter has been dealt with and its origin explained , the free ammonia may or may not be due to fermentation occurring in the bladder , bat from a very large number of observations on perfectly healthy horses I affirm that ammonia exists in a free state in fresh urine .
It may be that ammoniacal fermentation has already taken place in the bladder due to the quantity of mucus , and the long period during which the majority of horses retain their urine , due both to habit and circumstances , but it is quite certain that the perfectly fresh urine caught directly into clean vessels contains a distinct amount of ammonia .
The amount of this ammonia cannot be estimated in urine twenty-four hours old , because it is impossible to distinguish if from the ammonia formed as the result of urea decomposition .
The only way I have attempted to overcome the difficulty is by collecting perfectly fresh urine , and by Schlosing 's method determining the ammonia before the slightest urea change , outside the bod } , has occurred .
This process is far from being free from error , but is the least objectionable mode of procedure .
I have previously stated that the ammonia found in urine twenty-four hours old may safely be calculated as urea , for that is undoubtedly its origin .
The preformed ammonia is probably completely given off before the twenty-four hours have ended .
The amount of free ammonia m the urine of rest I have calculated at 2'516 grams , and in the urine of work 5'3 grams , but I do not regard these results as completely trustworthy .
They nevertheless agree very closely , particularly that of work , with the ammonia obtained by the direct titration of fresh urine with a standard acid .
_ _ Phosphoric Acid.\#151 ; This acid is only found in comparatively small quantities in the urine of horses , the phosphates being principally eliminated by the bowels .
1889.J The Chemistry of the Urine of the Horse .
337 According to Boussingault , horses do not excrete phosphoric acid ; this is not in accordance with our experience .
Diet possesses no influence over its production , and the effect of rest and work is insignificant .
I found that working horses excreted 1*897 grams as a mean , whilst horses at rest excreted 1*3 grams .
Age lias no influence over its production .
The largest amount found was 9*45 grams and the smallest 0T3 gram .
The amount of P205 will vary very considerably , many horses only just possessing traces of the acid , others distinct quantities .
I am inclined to regard the mean amounts of phosphoric acid given above for rest and work as rather high .
Sulphuric Acid and other Sulphur Compounds.\#151 ; Sulphur exists in two distinct forms in the urine of horses ; the one I have calculated as S03 , the other , known as sulphur compounds , is calculated as S. Diet appeared to have no influence in the production of S03 , work , on the other hand , increased it .
Working horses excreted on an average 15*289 grams , and horses at rest 10 6468 grams in twenty-four hours .
The S03 appears to be increased in working horses in the same proportion as the urea .
The sulphur compounds are said to exist in combination with phenol and other organic substances ; on this point 1 am not prepared to offer any opinion.* Work did not influence their production .
Working horses yielded 7*6092 grams , horses at rest 7*3166 grams of sulphur .
It is singular that horses should excrete so much sulphuric acid and other sulph ur compounds .
Chlorine.\#151 ; More chlorine is excreted during rest than work , the mean amount for the former being 31*7119 grams , and for the latter 21 9806 grams in twenty-four hours .
The chlorine is not affected by diet ; it is united with potassium and sodium ; the amount of the latter metal in the urine of the horse is small , and only yields wdth the chlorine about grams of NaCl daily ; the major part of the chlorine is united with potassium which is most abundant .
* Some excellent work , has , however , been clone in this direction by Salkowski , Tereg , and Munk .
The latter observers state that on an average horses excrete 1'0'886 grams of tribromphenol in twenty-four hours , 10*175 grams of inorganic sulphur , and 5*039 grams organic sulphur in twenty-four hours .
The tribromphenol is equivalent to 3 grams of phenol daily .
Great importance is la* 'd by these observers on the excretion of phenol , a process which is suspended during intestinal complaints , particularly colic , and is , according to them and others , a cause of the rapid death in these affections , produced by the toxic effect of the unexcreted phenol .
The production of phenol in the healthy body is greatly influenced by diet , being largest on rye and hay , one part peas and two parts oats , and on hay alone ; it is smallest on rye alone , and next smallest on oats and hay .
Salkowski is inclined to regard Tcreg and Munk 's estimate of 3 grams of phenol daily as too high .
2 a 2 Prof. F. Smith .
[ June 20 , Xjime.-M.OYG lime exists in the urine of the horse than is soluble in an alkaline fluid , we have therefore lime both dissolved and merely suspended ; these have been estimated separately .
No direct connexion could be traced between the lime in the urine and the lime in the food , but between the production of lime and work a direct Connexion appeared .
The mean amount of dissolved CaO at work was found to be 1*9027 grams , and of the same salt at rest 3 4367 grams in twenty-four hours .
Suspended Lime.\#151 ; More suspended lime was found in the urine of horses at work than in those at rest , for the former 3*69 grams , and for the latter 1*1043 grams CaO .
To state these points briefly , when horses work they excrete more lime in their urine than when at rest , but the lime of work is principally suspended , and only a part of it dissolved ; whereas , the lime of rest is nearly all dissolved , and but little of it suspended .
There is no connexion between the amount of mucus in the urine and the suspended lime .
The largest amount of dissolved lime I found was 16*45 grams and the smallest 0*627 gram in twenty-four hours .
The lime is found principally in conjunction with a carbonate , but I have also found sulphate and oxalate .
The most common deposit in horse 's urine is the wheel-shaped crystals of lime carbonate .
On adding an acid to urine , extreme effervescence occurs as a rule , and the fluid is left quite clear like human urine ; I have only on a few occasions witnessed any different results from these .
The effervescence is usually extreme .
Magnesia.\#151 ; This , like the lime , exists partly in the suspended state and partly dissolved .
Neither diet nor work have any influence over the production of magnesia .
The soluble magnesia of work is 2*63 grams , and of rest 2*975 grams .
The suspended magnesia of rest is 0*4218 gram , and of work 0*7925 gram .
Potassium.\#151 ; This metal is found largely in horse 's urine ; it is principally combined with chlorine .
Pest and work influence its production , there is more potash found in the urine of resting than in the urine of working horses .
Working horse3 gave 27*06 grams whilst resting horses gave 36*59 grams in twenty-four hours .
Sodium.\#151 ; Is only found in small quantities in the urine , the mean amount being 2*17 grams , and it is combined with chlorine , yielding a little over 5^ grams of common salt for the twenty-four hours .
The mean amount of sodium in working horses was 1*84 grams in twenty-four hours , in horses at rest it was larger , viz. , 2*5 grams ; yielding with chlorine less than 6^ grams of common salt per diem .
In some recent experiments , carried out on a pony , on the excretion of soda and potash during rest and work , the animal remaining under observation for several days , I found that the mean amount o 1889 .
] The Chemistry of the Urine of the Ilorse .
mixed chlorides excreted remained about the same , viz. , 40 grams daily both at rest and work , hut that during rest more potash and less soda was found than during work .
This does not agree with the above experiments on the horse .
I have compiled , from the mean result obtained , the following table of analyses of urine of healthy horses at work and rest .
1 observe that my inorganic solids of rest are in excess of the ash found , and moreover , that the amount of organic substances found in the urine of rest is much smaller than that obtained by evaporation and weighing .
In both these matters the urine of work gives better results .
It is obvious , however , that I have only dealt with the most common and important substances found in urine ; there are many organic substances which I have not looked for , or estimated , or have only estimated on so few occasions as not to entitle them to a place in the table .
I do not for one moment intend it to be supposed that the table represents what all horses at work or rest excrete , for I have previously stated that the horse 's urine is a fluid of very varying composition ; all the table represents is the mean of a large number of carefully made observations , which must be accepted as an approximation to the truth rather than as absolutely true .
Table showing the Mean Composition of the twenty-fours ' Urine of Horses at Rest and Work .
Best .
Work .
c.c. c.c. Quantity 4935 4474 Specific gravity 1036 1036 grams .
grams .
Total solids 230 -0713 232 -157 Organic solids 146 -1649 152*190 Inorganic solids 83 -9064 79 -967 Urea 98 -6 .110 Ammonia carbonate as urea 13-1185 Ammonia 2-516 5 -3000 Benzoic acid 6-530 .
, Hippuric acid . .
15 -5870 Phosphoric anhydride 1 -3000 1 -8970 Sulphuric anhydride 10-6168 15 -2890 Other sulphur compounds 7-3166 7 -6902 Chlorine 31*7119 21 -9806 Calcium oxide 3 -4367 1 -9027 Magnesium oxide 2-9750 2-6300 Potassium oxide 36-5900 27 0600 Sodium oxide 2-5000 1 -8100 340 * Dr ; W. Marcet .
A Chemic.al Inquiry [ June 20 , I hare made no mention of the changes which occur in the urine as the result of disease , for the reason that I purpose devoting a special article to this subject , which is at present under investigation , though necessarily slow in progress , and far from being completed .
It is singular to observe that any important derangement of the horse 's health is associated with an acid urine , the presence of uric acid and large phosphates , and the production of a clear human-like urine in appearance ; this change is produced as soon as the animal refuses food and commences to live on its own tissues .
IX .
" A Chemical Inquiry into the Phenomena of Human Respiration .
" By William Marcet , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 3 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) Before entering upon this communication , I must beg to acknow7 ledge the valuable aid of my assistant , Mr. C. F. Townsend , F.C.S. , to whose diligent , methodical , and careful work I am greatly indebted for the results obtained in the present research .
The numerous calculations have all been made by both of us together , and the results checked in every possible way to insure accuracy .
My attention was first turned to the chemical phenomena of respiration in 1875 , and since then I have had the honour of communicating^ to the Royal Society a succession of papers on the " Influence ot Altitude on Respiration , " which have appeared in vols .
27 , 28 , 29 , and 31 of the 'Proceedings .
' These inquiries show in a most conclusive manner that altitude exerts an action on respiration depending entirely on the fall of atmospheric pressure .
The law can be expressed as follows -The volumes of air breathed , reduced to 0 ' C. and 760 mm. , in order to yield the oxygen necessary for the production of a given weight ( say , 1 gram ) of carbonic acid , are smaller on mountains under diminished pressures than in the plains under higher pressures .
My earliest experiments on the Breithorn , 4171 metres ( 13,685 feet ) ; the Col St. Theodule , 3322 metres ( 10,899 feet ) ; the Riffel , 2368 metres ( 8428 feet ) ; St. Bernard , 2473 metres ( 8115 feet ) ; and the Col du Geant , 3362 metres ( 11,030 feet ) , were all attended with a fall of temperature on reaching into higher altitudes .
This circumstance necessarily produced an increased combustion in the body , to overcome the action of the cold , and introduced an e ement in the inquiry not unlikely to interfere with the exclusive influence altitude might exert on the chemical phenomena of respiration .
In order to overcome the present difficulty I spent t ree wee s on the Peak of Teneriffe in the summer of 1878 , where the

