102 Mr. W. Crookes on [ Dec. 5 , Prusol ( Joshua ) .
Dreams of my Solitude on the Life and Mechanism of the Heavens and their hosts .
8vo .
Edinburgh 1878 .
The Author .
Ramsay ( A. C. ) , F.R.S. The Physical Geology and Geography of Great Britain .
Fifth edition .
8vo .
London 1878 .
The Author .
Schwendler ( Louis ) .
Government Telegraphic Department .
Instructions for testing Telegraph Lines .
Yol .
I. 8vo .
London 1878 .
The Author .
Studnitz ( A. von ) .
Gold , or Legal Regulations for the Standard of Gold and Silver Wares in different countries of the world , translated by Mrs. Brewer , with Notes and Additions by E. W. Streeter .
12mo .
London 1877 .
The Editor .
Wigner ( G. W. ) The Water Supply of Sea-side Watering-places .
12mo .
London 1878 .
The Author .
Winthrop ( R. C. ) Correspondence of Hartlib , Haak , Oldenburg , and others of the founders of the Royal Society , with Governor W in-throp of Connecticut , 1661\#151 ; 1672 .
8vo .
Boston [ 17.$ .
] 1878 .
The Editor .
Wittstein ( G. C. ) The Organic Constituents of Plants and Vegetable Substances , and their Chemical Analysis .
Authorised translation by Ferd .
von Mueller , F.R.S. 8vo .
Melbourne 1878 .
The Editor .
December 5 , 1878 .
W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents :\#151 ; The Treasurer .
Mr. Justice Grove .
Sir Joseph Hooker .
Lord Lindsay .
Sir John Lubbock .
The Hon. Sir James Cockle ( elected in 1865 ) and Lord Lindsay were admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; 1878 .
] the Illumination of Lines of Molecular Pressure .
I. " On the Illumination of Lines of Molecular Pressure , and the Trajectory of Molecules .
" By William Crookes , F.R.S. , V.P.C.S. Received November 30 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) Induction Spark through Rarefied Oases .
Dark Space round the Negative Pole .
The author has examined the dark space which appears round the negative pole of an ordinary vacuum tube when the spark from an induction coil is passed through it .
He describes many experiments with different kinds of poles , a varying intensity of spark , and different gases , and arrives at the following propositions .
Illumination of Lines of Molecular Pressure , a. Setting up an intense molecular vibration in a disk of metal by electrical means excites a molecular disturbance which affects the surface of the disk and the surrounding gas .
With a dense gas the disturbance extends a short distance only from the metal ; but as rarefaction continues the layer of molecular disturbance increases in thickness .
In air at a pressure of *078 millim. this molecular disturbance extends for at least 8 millims. from the surface of the disk , forming an oblate spheroid around it .
h. The diameter of this dark space varies with the exhaustion ; with the kind of gas in which it is produced ; with the temperature of the negative pole ; and , in a slight degree , with the intensity of the spark .
For equal degrees of exhaustion it is greatest in hydrogen and least in carbonic acid , as compared with air .
c. The shape and size of this dark space do not vary with the distance separating the poles ; nor , only very slightly , with alteration of battery power , or with intensity of spark .
When the power is great the brilliancy of the unoccupied parts of the tube overpowers the dark space , rendering it difficult of observation ; but , on careful scrutiny , it may still be seen unchanged in size , nor does it alter even when , with a very faint spark , it is scarcely visible .
On still further reduction of the power it fades entirely away , but without change of form .
The author describes numerous experiments , devised to ascertain if this visible layer of molecular disturbance is identical with the invisible layer of molecular pressure or stress , the investigation of which has occupied him for some years .
The Electrical Radiometer .
One of these experiments is as follows:\#151 ; An ordinary radiometer is made , with aluminium disks for vanes , each disk coated with a I 2 ' Mr. W. Crookes on [ Dec. 5 , film of mica .
The fly is supported by a hard steel cup instead of a glass cup , and the needle point on which it works is connected by means of a wire with a platinum terminal sealed into the glass .
At the top of the radiometer bulb a second terminal is sealed in .
The radiometer can therefore be connected with an induction coil , the movable fly being made the negative pole .
Passing over the phenomena observed at low exhaustions , the author finds that , when connected with the coil , a halo of a velvety violet light forms on the metallic side of the vanes , the mica side remaining dark throughout these experiments .
As the pressure diminishes , a dark space is seen to separate the violet halo from the metal .
At a pressure of half a millim. this dark space extends to the glass , and positive rotation commences .
On continuing the exhaustion , the dark space further widens out and appears to flatten itself against the glass , and the rotation becomes very rapid .
When aluminium cups are used for the vanes instead of disks backed with mica , similar appearances are seen .
The velvety violet halo forms over each side of the cup .
On increasing the exhaustion the dark space widens out , retaining almost exactly the shape of the cup .
The bright margin of the dark space becomes concentrated at the concave side of the cup to a luminous focus , and widens out at the convex side .
On further exhaustion , the dark space on the convex side touches the glass , when positive rotation commences , becoming very rapid as the dark space further increases in size , and ultimately flattening against the glass .
Convergence of Molecular Rays to a Focus .
The subject next investigated is the convergence of the lines of force to a focus , as observed with the aluminium cup .
As this could not be accomplished during rapid rotation , an instrument was made , having the cup-shaped negative pole fixed , instead of movable .
On exhaustion , the convergence of the lines of force to a focus at the concave side was well observed .
Wken the dark space is very much larger than the cup , it forms an irregular ellipsoid drawn in towards the focal point .
Inside the luminous boundary a focus of dark violet light can be seen converging , and , as the rays diverge on the other side of the focus , spreading beyond the margin of the dark space ; the whole appearance being strikingly similar to the rays of the sun reflected from a concave mirror through a foggy atmosphere .
Green Phosphorescent Light of Molecular Impact .
At very high exhaustions the dark space becomes so large that it fills the tube .
Careful scrutiny still shows the presence of the dark violet focus ; and the part of the glass on which fall the rays diverging 1878 .
] the Illumination of .Lines of Molecular Pressure .
105 from this focus shows a sharply-defined spot of greenish-yellow light .
On still further exhaustion , and especially if the cup is made positive , the bulb becomes beautifully illuminated with greenish-yellow phosphorescent light .
This greenish-yellow phosphorescence , characteristic of high exhaustions , is frequently spoken of in the paper .
It must be remembered , however , that the particular colour is due to the special kind of soft German glass used .
Other kinds of glass phosphoresce in a different colour .
The phosphorescence takes place only under the influence of the rays from the negative pole .
At an exhaustion of 4 M* , no light other than this is seen in the apparatus .
At *9 M the phosphorescence is about at its maximum .
When the exhaustion reaches T5 M the spark has a difficulty in passing , and the green light appears occasionally in flashes only .
At *06 M the vacuum is almost non-con-ductive , and a spark can be forced through only by increasing the intensity of the coil , and well insulating the tube and wires leading to it .
Beyond that exhaustion nothing has been observed .
Focus of Molecular Energy .
In an apparatus specially constructed for observing the position of the focus , the author found that the focal point of the green phosphorescent light was at the centre of curvature , showing that the molecules by which it is produced are projected in a direction normal to the surface of the pole .
Before reaching the best exhaustion for the green light , another focus of blue-violet light is observed ; this varies in position , getting further from the pole as the exhaustion increases .
In the apparatus described , at an exhaustion of 19*3 M , these two foci are seen simultaneously , the green being at the centre of curvature , while the blue focus is at nearly twice the distance .
Nature of the Green Phosphorescent Light .
The author adduces the following characteristics of the green phosphorescent light , as distinguishing it from the ordinary light observed in vacuum-tubes at lower exhaustions :\#151 ; a. The green focus cannot be seen in the space of the tube , but where the projected beam strikes the glass only .
b. The position of the positive pole in the tube makes scarcely any difference to the direction and intensity of the lines of force which produce the green light .
The positive pole may be placed in the tube either at the extremity opposite the negative pole , or below it , or by its side .
c. The spectrum of the green light is a continuous one , most of the red and the higher blue rays being absent ; while the spectrum of the light observed in the tube at lower exhaustions is characteristic of the * M signifies the millionth of an atmosphere .
Mr. W. Crookes on [ Dec. 5 , I residual gas .
No difference can be detected by spectrum examination 1 in the green light , whether the residual gas be nitrogen , hydrogen , or I carbonic acid .
d. The green phosphorescence commences at a different exhaustion 1 in different gases .
e. The viscosity of a gas is almost as persistent a characteristic I of its individuality as its spectrum .
The author refers to a preliminary note and a diagram * of the variation of viscosity of I air , hydrogen , and other gases at exhaustions between 240 M and f *1 M. From these and other unpublished results , the author finds that the viscosity of a gas undergoes very little diminution between I atmospheric pressure and an exhaustion at which the green phos- 1 phorescence can be detected .
When , however , the spectral and other 1 characteristics of the gas begin to disappear , the viscosity also com- | mences to decline , and at an exhaustion at which the green phos- I phorescence is most brilliant , the viscosity has rapidly sunk to an 1 insignificant amount .
/ .
The rays exciting green phosphorescence will not turn a corner in 1 the slightest degree , but radiate from the negative pole in straight | lines , casting strong and sharply defined shadows from objects which J happen to be in their path .
On the other hand , the ordinary lumi- j nescence of vacuum tubes will travel hither and thither along any j number of curves and angles .
Projection of Molecular Shadows .
The author next examines the phenomena of shadows cast by the green light .
The best and sharpest shadows are cast by flat disks and not by narrow pointed poles ; no green light whatever is seen in the shadow itself , no matter how thin , or whatever may be the substance from which it is thrown .
From these and other experiments , fully described in the paper , he ventures to advance the theory that the induction spark actually illuminates the lines of molecular pressure caused by the electrical excitement of the negative pole .
The thickness of the dark space is the measure of the length of the path between successive collisions of the molecules .
The extra velocity with which the molecules rebound from the excited negative pole keep back the more 1 slowly moving molecules which are advancing towards that pole .
The conflict occurs at the boundary of the dark space , where the luminous margin bears witness to the energy of the discharge .
When the exhaustion is sufficiently high for the length of path between successive collisions to be greater than the distance between the fly and the glass , the swiftly moving rebounding molecules spend their energy , in part or in whole , on the sides of the vessel , and the * " Proc. Foy .
Soc , " Nov. 16 , 1876 , vol. xxv , p. 305 .
1878 .
] the Illumination of Lines of Molecular Pressure .
production of light accompanies this sudden arrest of velocity .
The light proceeds from the glass , and is apparently caused by fluorescence or phosphorescence on its surface .
No light is produced by a mica or quartz screen , and the more fluorescent the material the better the luminosity .
Here the consideration arises that the greenish-yellow light is an effect of the arrest of the negatively electrified molecules by the surface of the glass ; but whether they actually strike the glass , or whether at the boundary surface separating solid from gaseous matter , there are intermediary layers of condensed gas which , taking up the blow , pass it on to the layer beneath , are problems the solution of which must be left to further research .
The shadows are not optical , but are molecular shadows , revealed only by an ordinary illuminating effect ; this is proved by the sharpness of the shadow when projected from a wide pole .
Phosphorescence of Thin Films .
An experiment is next described in which a film of uranium glass , sufficiently thin to show colours of thin plates , is placed in front of a thick plate of the same glass ; the whole being enclosed in a tube with terminals , and exhausted to a few millionths of an atmosphere .
Of this the following observations are recorded :\#151 ; ? .
The uranium film , being next to the negative pole , casts a strong shadow on the plate . ?
, On making contact with the coil , the thin film flashes out suddenly all over its surface with a yellowish phosphorescence , which , however , instantly disappears .
The uncovered part of the plate does not become phosphorescent quite suddenly , but the phosphorescence is permanent as long as the coil is kept at work .
c. With an exceedingly faint spark the film remains more luminous than the plate , but on intensifying the spark , the luminosity of the film sinks and that of the uncovered part of the plate increases .
d. If a single intense spark be suddenly sent through the tube , the film becomes very luminous , while the plate remains dark .
These experiments are conclusive against the phosphorescence being an effect of the radiation of phosphorogenic ultra-violet light from a thin layer of arrested molecules at the surface of the glass , for were this the case , the film could under no circumstances be superior to the plate .
The momentary phosphorescence and rapid fading of the film prove more than this .
The molecular bombardment is too much for the thin film .
It responds thereto at first , but immediately gets heated by the impacts , and then ceases to be luminous .
The plate , however , being thick , bears the hammering without growing hot enough to lose its power of phosphorescing .
Mr. W. Crookes on [ Dec. 5 , I Mechanical Action of Projected Molecules .
When the coil was first turned on , the thin film was driven back at f| the moment of becoming phosphorescent , showing that an actual 's material blow had been given by the molecules .
Experiments are JB next described in which this mechanical action is rendered more evident .
A small rotating fly , capable cf being moved about in any* part of an exhausted bulb , is used as an ndicator , and by appropriate 11 means the molecular shadow of an aluminium plate is projected along 11 the bulb .
Whether entirely in , or entirely out of the shadow , the a indicator scarcely moves , but when immersed so that one-half is ex-posed to molecular impact the fly rotates with extreme velocity .
Magnetic Deflection of Lines of Molecular Force .
With this apparatus another phenomenon was investigated .
It is a found that the stream of molecules , whose impact on the glass is I accompanied by evolution of light , is very sensitive to magnetic in- 1 fluence , and by bringing one pole of an electro-magnet\#151 ; or even of 1 a small permanent magnet\#151 ; near , the shadow can be twisted to the 1 right or to the left .
When the little indicator was placed entirely within the molecular 1 shadow , no movement was produced .
As soon , however , as an adjacent f electro-magnet was excited , the shadow was deflected half off the indi- I cator , which immediately rotated with great speed .
The Trajectory of Molecules .
The amount of deflection of the stream of molecules forming a 1 shadow is in proportion to the magnetic power employed .
The trajectory of the molecules forming the shadow is curved when \ under magnetic influence ; the action of the magnet is to twist the trajectory of the molecules round in a direction at an angle to their !
free path , and to a greater extent , as they are nearer the magnet : 1 the direction of twist being that of the electric current passing round j the electro-magnet .
Laws of Magnetic Deflection .
An apparatus was constructed so that the deflection of a spot of light I was observed instead of that of a shadow ; a horseshoe magnet being placed underneath the negative pole to deflect the trajectory .
The action of the north pole being to give the ray of molecules a spiral twist one way , and that of the south pole being to twist it the other way , the two poles side by side compel the ray to move in a straight line up or down , along a plane at right angles to the plane of the magnet and a line joining its poles .
The ray of molecules does not appear to obey Ampere 's law , as it would were it a perfectly flexible conductor , joining the negative and the posi1878 .
] the Illumination of Lines of Molecular Pressure .
109 tive pole .
The molecules are projected from the negative , but the position of the positive pole\#151 ; whether in front , at the side , or even behind the negative pole\#151 ; has no influence on their subsequent behaviour , either in producing phosphorescence , or mechanical effects , or in their magnetic deflection .
The magnet gives their line of path a spiral twist , greater or less according to its power , but diminishing as the molecules get farther off .
Numerous experiments were tried in this apparatus with different gases , and with the magnet in and out of position .
Working with exhausted air it was found that the spot of green phosphorescence on the screen is visible at an exhaustion of 102'6 M , when the free path of the molecules , measured by the thickness of the dark space round the negative pole , is only 12 millims. Hence , it follows , that a number of molecules sufficient to excite green phosphorescence on the screen are projected the whole distance from the pole to the screen , or 102 millims. , without being stopped by collisions .
Alteration of Molecular Velocity .
If we suppose the horseshoe magnet to be permanently in position , and thus to exert a uniform downward pressure on the molecules , we perceive that their trajectory is much curved at low exhaustions , and gets flatter as the exhaustion increases .
A flatter trajectory corresponds to a higher velocity .
This may arise from one of two conditions ; either the initial impulse given by the negative pole is stronger , or the molecules experience less resistance .
The latter is probably the true one .
The molecules which produce the green phosphorescence must be looked upon as in a state differing from those arrested by frequent collisions .
Any action which impedes the velocity of the free molecules allows longer time for the magnetism to act on them ; and , although the deflecting force of magnetism might be expected to decrease with the velocity of the molecules , Professor Stokes has pointed out that it would have to decrease as the square of the velocity , in order that the deflection should be no greater at low than at high velocities .
Comparing the free molecules to cannon balls , the magnetic deflection to the earth 's gravitation , and the electrical excitation of the negative pole to the explosion of the powder in the gun , the trajectory will be flat when no gravitation acts , and curved when under the influence of gravitation .
It is also much curved when the ball passes through a dense resisting medium ; it is less curved when the resisting medium gets rarer ; and , as already shown , intensifying the induction spark , equivalent to increasing the charge of powder , gives greater initial velocity , and therefore flattens the trajectory .
The parallelism is still closer if we compare the evolution of light seen when the shot 110 On the Illumination of Lines of Molecular Pressure .
[ Dec. 5 , strikes the target , with the phosphorescence on the glass screen j accompanying molecular impacts .
Focus of Heat of Molecular Impact .
The author finally describes an apparatus in which he shows that i great heat is evolved when the concentrated focus of rays from a nearly hemispherical aluminium cup is deflected sideways by a magnet to the walls of the glass tube .
By using a somewhat larger i hemisphere and allowing the negative focus to fall on a strip of | platinum foil , the heat rises to the melting point of platinum .
An TJltra-gaseous State of Matter .
The paper concludes with some theoretical speculations on the state in which the matter exists in these highly exhausted vessels .
The modern idea of the gaseous state is based upon the supposition that a given space contains millions of millions of molecules in rapid move- ( ment in all directions , each having millions of encounters in a second .
I In such a case , the length of the mean free path of the molecules is exceedingly small as compared with the dimensions of the vessel , and the properties which constitute the ordinary gaseous state of matter , which depend upon constant collisions , are observed .
But by great rarefaction the free path is made so long that the hits in a given time may be disregarded in comparison to the misses , in which case the average molecule is allowed to obey its own motions or laws without interference ; and if the mean free path is comparable to the dimensions of the vessel , the properties which constitute gaseity are reduced to a minimum , and the matter becomes exalted to an ultra-gaseous state , in which the very decided but hitherto masked properties now under investigation come into play .
Fays of Molecular Light .
In speaking of a ray of molecular light , the author has been guided more by a desire for conciseness of expression than by a wish to advance a novel theory .
But he believes that the comparison , under these special circumstances , is strictly correct , and that he is as well entitled to speak of a ray of molecular or emissive light when its presence is detected only by the light evolved when it falls on a suitable screen , as he is to speak of a sunbeam in a darkened room as a ray of vibratory or ordinary light when its presence is to be seen only by interposing an opaque body in its path .
In each case the invisible line of force is spoken of as a ray of light , and if custom has sanctioned this as applied to the undulatory theory , it cannot be wrong to apply the expression to emissive light .
The term emissive light must , however , be restricted to the rays between the negative pole and the luminous Ill w 1878 .
] Solution of Simultaneous Linear .
\#166 ; screen : the light by which the eye then sees the screen is , of course , undulatory .
The phenomena in these exhausted tubes reveal to physical science new world\#151 ; a world where matter exists in a fourth state , where the corpuscular theory of light holds good , and where light does not always move in a straight line ; but where we can never enter , and in which we must be content to observe and experiment from the outside .
II .
" On a Machine for the Solution of Simultaneous Linear Equations .
" By Sir William Thomson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , President of the Royal Society , Edinburgh .
Received August 30 , 1878 .
Let Bj , B2 , . . .
B " be nbodies each supported on a fixed axis ( in is practice each is to be supported on knife-edges like the beam of a c balance ) .
Let Pn , P2i , Psi , . . .
P\#187 ; i , n pulleys each pivoted on Bi ; P12 , P221 Ps2\gt ; \#171 ; .
* P\#187 ; 2 ) ) \gt ; \gt ; B2j P13 , P23 , P33 , . . .
Pns \#187 ; \#187 ; \#187 ; Bs ; Ci , C2 , C3 , . . .
Cn , m cords passing over the pulleys ; Di , Pn , P12 , P13 , . . .
Pi\#187 ; , Ei , the course of Ci ; hi , P21 , P22\#187 ; P23 , * . .
P2W , E2 , , , C2 ; Di , Ei , D2 , E2 , . . .
D " , Ew , fixed points ; lu I2 , h In the lengths of the cords between Di , Ex , and D2 , E2 , . . .
and D\#187 ; , E " , along the courses stated above , when Bi , B2 , . . .
B " , are in particular positions which will be called their zero positions ; h + ei , h+ . . .
In+their lengths between the same fixed points , when Bi , B2 , . . .
B " are turned through angles xh *2 , . . .
xn from their zero positions ; ai ) , ( 12 ) , ( 13 ) , \ . .
( In ) , ( 21 ) , ( 22 ) , ( 23 ) , . . .
( 2m ) , ( 31 ) , ( 32 ) , ( 33 ) , . . .
( 3m ) , quantities such that ( ll.)a5i + ( 12)a ?
2+ . . .
+(lm)a ; " =ei'| ( 21)ai +(22)aj2+ .
* .
+(2m)a ; " =e2l ( 31)a3i + ( 32)aj2+ . . .
+(3m)a5\#187 ; =e3/ ... ( I ) ( nl)\#163 ; Ci+ ( m2)a:2+ . . .
+(3n)aj\#187 ; =e\#187 ; J We shall suppose a ?
i , *2 , ... to be each so small that ( 11 ) , ( 12 ) ,

