]\gt ; The Deviation of from Radio-Tellurium .
By W. B. HUFF , Associate Professor of Physics , Bryn Mawr College , Pa. , U.S.A. ( Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 27 , \mdash ; Read June 28 , 1906 .
) A determination of the electrostatic deviation of the -rays from radiotellurium was suggested to the writer by Professor J. J. Thomson , as a continuation of the work on -rays done by Professor A. S. Mackenzie .
* The general plan of the work was to let a beam of the rays pass between two charged plates , and then fall upon a glass plate coated with a thin layer of zinc sulphide on the side receiving the radiation .
A photographic plate in contact with the other side of this fluorescent screen would be affected by the scintillations and thus mark the position of the beam .
The arrangement of the apparatus used is shown by the fram .
The radiation from the disc at , passing through the brass slit-tube , and between the charged plates , reaches the fluorescent screen D. A copper disc , coated with radio-tellurium by Sthamer , served as the source of the rays .
The slits were mm. and 8 mm. apart .
Over the outer slit was a sliding magnet ( not shown on the diagram ) , which made it possible to shield the screen from the rays when no field was on .
Quartz rods supported the condenser plates , which were of thin steel , 4 cm .
long and cm .
wide .
The ends of these plates were cm .
and cm .
from the slit-tube and fluorescent screen espectively .
These parts of the apparatus were supported by a long split-ring , which fitted closely in a glass tube cm .
in diameter .
This tube was vertical , the lower end being waxed into a larger tube which contained phosphorous pentoxide , and connected with the mercury pump .
The wires from the 'Phil .
Mag vol. 10 , 1905 .
78 Prof W. B. Huff The Electrostatic Deriation of [ June 27 , Wimshurst machine were soldered to the steel condenser plates , and sealed into glass side tubes .
The fluorescent screen was 2 cm .
square and mm. thick .
The coated area was 5 mm. square .
This plate was waxed to a brass cap , the latter being waxed to the upper end of the large glass tube , which contained the condenser plates , slit-tube , etc. The vacuum was as good as could be got with a mercury pump .
After the tube was exhausted , the scintillations could be seen with a lens , but they were too few to make eye-measurements possible .
Even when using the most sensitive photographic plates , exposures of 40 or 50 hours gave lines which were extlemely hazy .
Scintillations , and therefore photographs , can be obtained when the rays traverse considerably greater distances than those indicated in the figure ; but with narrow slits the time required is very long ; with wide slits , the lines are too broad to be of use .
When the rays are allowed to fall directly upon the photographic plate , an impression , of about the same density as that got with a screen , is considerably wider .
This effect , due to a screen , suggested using a very thin one over the photographic plate , the combination being sealed into the vacuum tube .
A screen mm. thick was tried in this way .
When no field was on a good plate was obtained , but with the field on the plate invanably fogged , even when the tube was allowed to stand for several days after being pumped out , and when the electrometer had given no evidence that had occurred .
Plates showing the double deviation were obtained , but fog rendered them worthless .
It was finally decided to fasten a metal frame to the outside of the brass cap over the upper end of the tube , and to fit photographic plates accurately into this .
By choosing plates with smooth edges it thus became possible to measure the distance of a single line from the edge of the photograpluc plate parallel to it .
By using wider slits denser lines were got , and this , it seemed probable , would more than compensate for the errors introduced by having to compare separate plates .
this method , several plates have been obtained .
Exposures of 60 hours each gave three fairly clear lines .
Using these plates , the following measurements were taken for the double deviations .
mm. mm. 1 .
1 .
1.35 1.40 mm. , or mm. for the deviation one way .
1906 .
] from Radio-Tellurium .
The variations in the separate measurements indicate the difficulty in setting on lines which are , at best , extremely hazy .
and using the relation we obtain Since we derive the values\mdash ; in electro-magnetic units .
This result is considerably less than the corresponding quantity for radium .
The chief source of possible error lies in the difficulty of making accurate settings on a broad hazy line .
I desire to record my thanks to Professor J. J. Thomson for to me the privileges of the Cavendish Laboratory , and for advice and suggestions always generously given .
* Maxwell , 'Electricity , ' S202 . .
J. Thomson , ' Conduction of Electricity through Gases , ' S50 .
Mackenzie ,

