]\gt ; Electrical Interference Phenomen with the baromctric maximum in 10 , and follows it by bout one month in 9 , and by about two months in 4 , districts ; the other cttbes generally admitting of some explanation .
3 .
In scismic icts , and especially in Japan and New Zeftland , the amplitude of the annual pel.iod is very small ; and , if many of the thquakes of these districts beneath , this should be the case ; for , in the course of a year , as the balometric ) ressure changes , the sea will have time to take up position , and thus the total pressure on the sea-bottom will be umaltered . .
Electrical Intcrference Phenomena } Analogous to Bings , but exhibited by Vaves p along lVires of which a part differs from the rest By H. , B.Sc. , " " 1851 Exhibition\ldquo ; Science Scholar .
Communicated by Professor A. W. RUCKER , Received lIa 1 .
In 1891 Mr. .
Bjerknes* showed how to measure the wavelength and primary damping of the electrica ] oscillations in a Hertzian primary conductor by the use of a special electrometel and long parallelwires which induced oscillations ated .
This form of secondary conductor , in which the wires are .
too to be in resonance with ] the prinlary oscillator , hel.eafter in tLis paper , be refel.red to as " " the long secoridal'y\ldquo ; or " " the \ldquo ; 2 . .
the following session } on found that , if vircs ac of tho ere eithel ( 1 ) aced by othel .
S thicker or thinner the ormal wire or ( 2 ) ed nearer ebhCr or rther ahall the distance in any of these cases , a partial reflection of the electricnl waves at such place of in the volume Geither then made ) ationb of what occul.red a condenser attached at a single of , but did not tively emine t effect produced waves by a lito lngth of the sccondary being diffcrent from 's Annalen , ' vol. , pp. , 1891 , " " Ucbel den der im rcn Hertz'schcn Leitcr Lncs alcn , ' vol. 49 , pp. , 1893 , " " Ucbcr Rcllexion clcc\ldquo ; J. Rittcr von Gcitler .
Mr. .
H. Barton .
Electrical Interference [ June 15 , 3 .
the researches of these physicists , and in the same I have endeavoured to trare , both theoretically and experimentally , the relation between the length of this abnormal part of the " " secondary\ldquo ; and the reIative intensities of the transmitted and reflected disturbances into which the original incident wave is thereby divided .
4 .
The following diagram and accompanying descripve notes will explain the apparatus used in the experiments:\mdash ; FIG. l.\mdash ; Diagrammatic Outline of the Apparatus used for and the Interference of Electrical Oscillations .
EXPLANATION OF FIG. 1 .
I. Induclion coil worked by secondary cells .
G. Spark gap mm .
( Measured along the wires ) is 204 cm .
, the es are 2 mm. diameter . .
Condenser plates of zinc 40 cm .
diam. to the ends of the Hertzian primary oscillator . .
Similar plates at a distance of 30 cm .
from and , and the of the " " long secondary which consists of copper 1vires 1 mm. diameter .
Distance AA ' cm .
BC .
The abnormal palt of the long secondary used to produce the reflection and interference phenomena .
The needle is uncharged : it therefore t in the ) direction whenevcr there is any potential diffcrence een and hatever the sign of that differencc .
DD ' .
Wire bridge across the main wires .
Length AD .
nearly .
ED where denotes the 11 ave-length in the long secondary .
*Naltcly , in the ersity of Bonn , under the guidance of Hertz .
von Geither kindly left for my the mstrunlent him and described in ' Wiedemann 's Annalen , ' vol. 49 , p. 188 .
I am also indebted to for full verbal explanations of his researches prior to their publication , and tender him hearty thanks .
1893 .
] somewhat analogous to 's Rings .
of 5 .
Imagine an elecbl.ical conductor ABCD ( see fig. 1 ) of three , AB , BC , and CD , in each of which parts the electrostatic capacity and other properties of the conductor remain constant , of the third part CD being precisely like of the first part AB , but the second part BC differing from the other two .
parts either in its dimensions or in the natul.e of the dielectric*by which it is surrounded , or in both these respecbs .
And consider an electrical wave passing along this conductor from A towards D. Suppose its amplitude in the part AB is , and that from the point ( immediately after the instant of incidence of the lvave there and before any disturbance has reached C ) , a wave of amplitude is reflected towards , and a of amplitude transmitted within the part BC towards C. The constants and may be referred to as the coefficients of reflection and transmission respectively .
6 .
Then the elementary mathematical investigation of what may be expected to occur falls naturally into three namely : ( 1 ) The ivation of the coefficisnts of reflection and transmission at the point from the changes in the properties of the conductor which occur there .
( 2 ) The relation between these coefficients and the similar ones involved when the wave reaches and thus encounters the reverse change in the perties of the conductor .
( 3 ) The determination of the intensities of the total disburbances reflected at or passing through in the direction A and of those transmitted through in the direction respectively .
each being the result of an infinite series of interfering waves produced by multiple refiectio1ls within the part , these again being produced by the Ol.iginal wave passing along AB .
These three branches of the theory will now be taken in the above order .
7 .
I. Theory of single reflection and of electrical txave along a conductor at a point where either its elecfrosfatic capacity , or its coeffi cienf of , or both , change abruptly.\mdash ; Let the following symbols be used , the same system of units being understood throughout:\mdash ; .
Electrostatic potential .
C. Electrostatic capacity per length of collductor .
It is to be distinctly throughout the medium sul.rounding all parfs of conductor is supposed to ) a dielectric .
All idea of its possessing , and consequently a portion of the of the wave , is excluded from this .
Also } all parts of the conductor itself let ( the magnetic permeability ) unity .
Mr. E. H. Barton .
terference [ June 15 , Q. Quantity of electricity per unit length of conductor .
L. Coefficient of self-induction , , R. Resistance \ldquo ; current .
Velocity of propagation of the waves along the conductor . .
Wave-length . .
Time .
, and denote the values corresponding to the high frequencies used .
Take the co1lductor as the of For the normal parts of the conductor , namely , AB and CD , fig. 1 , the above symboIs will be used with the subscript 1 ; for the abnormal BC they will be used with the subscript 2 .
8 .
When an electrical wave passes along a conductor we have at any point the E.M.F. .
But this also equals .
Thus , since , we obtain the differential equation . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) .
When and where , we have or whence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
the well known expl.ession for the velocity of propagation of the wave .
9 .
Now in equation ( 1 ) leads to a damping factor in the solution .
Since , however , we are now concerned simply with what occurs at the point of reflection , this will be omitted .
Equation ( 1 ) then becomes . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) , and its solution where , and denote aIly functions .
10 .
It will sllffice for the case in question if we write for and sine functions with coefficients for the qrious amplitudes , and a third term in the brackets to allow for a change of phase should there be one .
We may thus and reflectod waves in the first part of the conductor . . . . . .
( 4 ) .
1893 .
] Phenomena somewhat analogous to .
89 And for the transmitted wave the second part of the conductor , where and Further , rememberin ' that , we havc1 and ( 5 ) a ab ( 6 ) , and ac . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 7 ) .
11 .
Now take , the junction of the two parts of the conductor , as the origin of abscissae .
Then , for ( , we have and .
; unless and become infinite at that point .
Applying this relation to equations ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) , and ( 7 ) yields . . . . . . .
( 8 ) . .
( 9 ) .
12 .
Now equations ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) hold good for all valnes of ; hence in each of them we may equate the coefficients of and of respectively after expanding the sines .
This leads to four equations from to the four unk-nowns .
The solution be as , :\mdash ; ( 10 ) .
1:3 .
The fllig.esults of ( 10 ) may be noted:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Encl.gy of the original wave is proportional to a constant that of tho reflected wave to a constallt , and that of transmitted wave to a constant .
We fore , to have\mdash ; .
And this equation is satisfied by the values of and .
( 2 ) If we have\mdash ; . . . . . .
( 12 ) .
[ Compare Preston 's ' Theory of Light , ' 1890 , pp. ] ( 3 ) If , then , and } 90 Mr. E. H. Barton .
Electrical Interference [ June 15 , and ( 13 ) 14 .
IL between the various coefficients involved when the second part of the conductor has finite length , and is succeeded by a third part like the first.\mdash ; This abnormal intel.mediate part of the conductor may sometimes be referred to as " " the condenser FIG. 2.\mdash ; Diagrammatic View of Waves , drawn , for clearness ' sake , as though they vere 1 incident and reflected obliquely .
BB ' shows the boundary between the first and second parts of the conductol .
; shows that between the second and third parts .
The small letters near the are the amplitudes of the waves .
The values of and in fig. 2 have already been determined , and we havs by the same equation [ viz. : ( 10 ) ] and ( 14 ) .
whence 15 .
III .
of the le eflections of a damped electrical wave in the abnormal part of a conductor ( the previous and succeeding parts being alike ) with expressions for the intensities of the resultin9 transmitted and reflected disturbances.\mdash ; Let the equation of the wave in the first part of the conductor be , where 1893 .
] nelrhat analogous to Newto Rings .
( Similarly will be used for the value It will be seen that the just referred to in the head'of this paragraph is the primary damping , that is , the of decrease of the oscillations occurring in the Hertzian conductor .
Secondary damping , on the other hand , refers to the -rate of decrease of any individual wave as proceeds along the Hertzian conductor .
It is , of course , along the long form of this secondary conductor that we are now supposing the waves to travel , but the secondary damping is known to be small in comparisoll with the primary damping , and is , therefore , in the present part of the theory .
, legitimately neglected .
* 16 .
It will dily be seen that the ordinary mathematical treatment of the interference of light in thin plates will not strictly apply to case .
, in the optical phenomenon , one supposes a continuous beam of light of constant amplitude .
We may , therefore , in that case , at once take , to infinity , the snms of the series of reflected and transmitted rays to which the original one gives rise , and neglect the ) paratively small period which efapses before those infinite series made up , and during which ( the series being as yet incomplete ) the reflected and transmitted ) eams have not reached their final steady values .
But with such primary damping as that with which we have to do namely , order , the chal'acter of the resuIt would be essentially changed by the unwarrantable assumption that the amplitude of the incident wave remains sensibly consbant until the infinite series of internal reflections has taken place .
1 The quostion is therefore attacked by forming a series of rals .
Referring to fig. 1 or 2 , the wave given by equation advances in { he positive direction along the axis of , that is , the direction ABCD .
Let when the head of the wave reaches C. And let for the wave which is at the point suffered any internal reflections in the .
Thus , for a ve which has suffered reflections within part BC , ] point has for its abscissa 2 , where denotes the length Now let denote a wave emerging at fter 2 internal reflectious ; then we have , by putting , in equation the amplitude from ( 14 ) , ' Wiedemann 's Annalcn , ' vol. 44 , pp. 83 and , 1891 . .
E. H. Barton .
Electrical Interference [ June l5 , It must now be recollected that , since the electrometer needle harged , it takes no account of the sign of the potential difference between and , fig. 1 , but gives a deflection proportional to taken between the proper time limits .
18 .
Hence , if denotes the electrometer constant , and , and , its deflections for the passage of the wave-train , without the condenser , after transmission the condenser ( shown in ) , and by reflection from the condenser , respectively , we have and .
ad and .
ad ( 17 ) .
And in these equations everything is expressible in terms of quantities considered known .
19 .
The evaluation of the second of ( 17 ) ( being a doublyinfinite series of definite integrals ) is a somewhat long process , but rigidly perfox.med to infinity , and the result divided by that for to eliminate , and the like operation for , we have .
20 .
The following results of equation ( 18 ) may be noticed .
( 1 ) or for all values of and , as should be th case .
( 2 ) On putting or , that is , removing the condenser , we have or , all transmitted , , none reflected .
On the other hand , with , we get all reflected and none mitted , nnless ( :3 ) On differerltiating to putting to the values of which give stationary values of and obtain , whence , where is any integer .
1893 .
] enomena somewhat alogous to Rings .
lues occur as in the following table:\mdash ; ( 4 ) We see , on inspection of ( 18 ) , that the values of and I , .
plotted ordinates , values being abscissae ) { orm a damped wavy curve , but that neither the damping nor the are of the simplest type .
( 5 ) On putting disappears , and have ( 19 ) .
( C)*On putting , that is , emoving the the expression for the wave , we obtain . . . . . . . . . .
( 20 ) , dinary expressions for the case of the intel'fel.ence of ) thin plates 's Theory .
21 .
The theoretical values of equation ( 18 ) are plotted in curve NQ .
1 , for the following values of the constants , the abscissae cprcsenting , and the ordinates .
dec. ; efore and ence equation ( 13 ) .
* For suggestion and for much help in checking ) ) orking aesults I am indebted to .
G. Udny Yule .
Mr. .
H. Barton .
Electrical Tnterference [ June enomena somewhat to Rings .
96 Mr. G. Udny Yule .
[ June 15 , 22 .
The periment.\mdash ; In the performed hitherto , I have made the abnormal part of the condtlctor by hanging upon the wires of the long secondary sheets of tinfoil 32 cm .
deep , the length varying up to .
Several observations of the electrometer throws are taken without the condenser , several with the condenser 1 .
long , several with the condenser 2 .
long , and so forth ; check observations being taken while the condenser is being shortened again .
Curve No. 2 is plotted with condenser lengths as )scissae , and electrometer throws as ordinates ; fhese .
latter , however , reduced to the scale , electrometer throws without condenser equals unity .
They thus compare with the values of in cul.ve No. 1 .
The th used was 23 .
lt is seen that the experimental curve thus obtained agrees in its eneral form with that plotted from theoretical considerations .
xact coincidence of theory and experiment cannot at this be expected .
I have , accordingly , made no attempt to plot a curve equation ( 18 ) with values of the constants which profess to exactly epresent those involved in the experiment .
24 .
I am aware of two chief sources of disturbances in the experimental conditions , but have already shown that they are not of such order as to invalidate the above results , which , therefore , hold good as first approximations .
25 .
As the present paper is on a preliminary one , intended to give an outline of the theory and experiment , I will not now enlarge upon the topic of disturbances .
I am still engaged on these interference phenomena , and hope to publish a full account of the results next session .
In conclusion , I wisl ] to express my great indebtedness to Professor , both for first directing my attention to the subject of these reflections , and also for his invaluable advice in the COUl'se of the .
' On ference Phenomena in Electric Waves passing th ough diiferent uesses of Electrolyte By G. YULE .
Conlmunic ted by ofessor G. CAREY OSTER , F.R.S. Received May 31 , In the spring of 1889 Professor J. J. Thomson published* a description of some experiments made by him for comparing the resistauces of electrolytes to the passage of very rapidly alternating currents , ] method consisting in comparing the thicknesses of layers of different electrolytes which were equally opaque to Hertzian radiation .
During .
Soc. Proc vol. 45 , p. 269 , 1889 .

