480 Prof. W. F. Barrett .
On Increase of Electrical broad bands by absorption .
I have never expressed the opinion , that the disappearance of the light between the D-lines in the absorption spectrum of dense sodium vapour is only a result of the strong dispersion ; but I warned against always ascribing the observed dark bands to absorption only .
Wood 's recent researches are very important as a contribution to our knowledge of dispersion in general .
For the present their bearing on the spectral phenomena exhibited by the light from the chromosphere and from sun-spots , seems not to be so direct , because , most probably , the density of the vapours is much less in the solar atmosphere than in the dispersion tubes used by Wood in his brilliant experiments .
" On the Increase of Electrical Resistivity caused by Alloying Iron with Various Elements , and the Specific Heat of those Elements .
" By W. F. Barrett , F.RS .
, Professor of Experimental Physics in the Royal College of Science for Ireland .
Received December 16 , 1901\#151 ; Read February 6 , 1902 .
In the following note I wish to draw attention to a connection which appears to exist between the electric conductivity of certain alloys of iron and the specific heats , and hence atomic masses , of the particular elements with which the iron is alloyed .
In a paper published in the 'Transactions ' of the Royal Dublin Society the electric conductivity and magnetic permeability of a very large and , I believe , unique collection of alloys of iron is given.* These alloys , it may be mentioned , have been prepared with great care by my friend , Mr. R. A. Hadfield , Managing Director of the Hecla Steel Works , Sheffield .
Of the alloys made , 110 different specimens were found homogeneous , and could be forged and rolled ; these were analysed at the Hecla works , and submitted to similar heat treatment\#151 ; all being carefully annealed under the direction of Mr. Hadfield .
The specimens were in the form of rods , of nearly circular cross-section , about one-half a centimetre in diameter and 104 cms .
long .
The conductivities were found by the potential method , a standard of pure copper being employed .
Although the determination of the mean sectional area of the specimens was made with great care , by numerous measurements of each rod with a micrometer screw , and also by means of water displacement , yet , owing to slight irregularities in the diameters of the rods , and the numerical importance of this value in * " On the Electrical Conductivity and Magnetic Permeability of " V arious Alloys of Iron , " by W. F. Barrett , F.R.S. , W. Brown , B.Sc. , and R. A. Hadfield , M.lnst .
C.E. , 'Trans .
Royal Dublin Society , ' January , 1900 .
Resistivity caused by Alloying Iron with Various Elements .
481 estimating the conductivity , the results obtained can only be regarded as a more or less close approximation to the true value.* A more formidable difficulty is the impossibility of obtaining such a collection of alloys free from the admixture of disturbing impurities .
Slight variations in the amount of these impurities , especially in the amount of carbon present , produce in the low percentages a profound effect on the conductivity and also on other physical properties of these alloys .
However , in most of the specimens Mr. Hadfield has succeeded in reducing these impurities to a lower amount than any other large collection of alloys yet made .
Carbon , manganese , and silicon were the impurities most commonly present , and the sum of these in the specimens selected was , as a rule , under 1 per cent. There were sixty-eight specimens of these alloys having various percentages of a single element added to iron ; these were as follows ( the element with which the iron is alloyed being named in the first column):\#151 ; Manganese ... .
18 specimens ranging from \ to 18J per cent , of Mn .
Carbon .\#171 ; .\#171 ; . .
13 , , , , *30 , , I4 , , C. Nickel ... ... . .
12 " " i " 31 " Ni .
Tungsten ... .
4 " " 1 " 15| " W. Chromium ... .
3 " " 2 " 9\#163 ; " Cr .
Copper ... ... ... 8 " " li " 3 " Cu .
Aluminium ... 3 " " f " 2\ " Al .
Silicon ... . .
2 " " 2| " 5J " Si .
In addition to these there were fifty-two other specimens having two or more of the above elements alloyed to iron in various proportions .
In every case , Avith the doubtful exception of copper , !
a decrease in conductivity was found to result from alloying iron Avith another metal , even when that element , as in the case of aluminium , had itself a conductivity far higher than that of the iron .
From the conductivities of the specimens , their specific resistances were calculated ; these were plotted against the percentages of the added element .
A series of fairly smooth curves were thus obtained for each alloy .
These curves are shown in fig. 1 .
It will be noticed that the addition of silicon or aluminium to iron produces the greatest increase in electric resistance and tungsten the least , and that a remarkable change in the electric resistivity of nickel steels occurs at high percentages .
There is obviously no connection betAveen these curves and the electric conduc- * It was satisfactory , however , to find that in a dozen or more specimens which were drawn into wire , and the specific resistances of which were measured in the ordinary way , the results obtained corroborated the values found from the rods .
f The specimens of copper-iron alloy were very few , and the residts masked by the varying impurities they contained ; very little alteration of the conductivity appeared to be produced by the addition of copper to iron .
482 Prof. W. F. Barrett .
On Increase of Electrical tivity of the added element ; e.g. , the metal aluminium is a far better conductor than nickel , and yet alloyed with iron it decreases the conductivity of iron far more than nickel .
Silicon and aluminium alloys of iron are extremely soft , and we should expect them to be better conductors than the hard tungsten steels , and far better than the HNESL .
Sp.H6.orz2 NICKEL .
STEAL TUNC , .
Jroh ' 99 0 % Z4 26 29 30 32 Percentages of Added ELemenC .
Fig- .
1.\#151 ; Specific Electric Resistance of Alloys of Iron .
manganese steels , which are very hard , but the reverse is the case .
Owing to their extreme softness , the alloys of silicon and aluminium with iron have an enormously high magnetic permeability , which will be referred to in the sequel .
The resistance of iron containing 0*1 and 03 per cent , of carbon and other impurity is shown by the horizontal dotted lines in fig. 1 .
110m these data the increase of resistance produced by alloying iron w it a given percentage of any of the elements named can be determine \gt ; \ Resistivity caused by Alloying Iron Various Elements .
483 selecting that specimen of iron which has about the same carbon or other impurity as that contained in the particular alloy and subtracting the resistance of the iron .
The result is shown in the next table .
Table I.\#151 ; Approximate Increase in Electric Resistivity ( in microhms per c.c. at 18 ' C. ) of Annealed Iron Alloys produced by adding to Iron Different Percentages of the Elements named in the first column .
Percentage of added element .
Alloys of iron , --------------a--------------with 2 per cent. 3 per cent. 5 per cent. 1 ungsten ... ... ... 4 .
0 5 .
0 6 .
0 microhms Nickel ... ... ... ... ... 7-0 9-0 13-0 , , Chromium ... ... ... ... .
10-0 11*5 14*0 , , Manganese ... ... ... .
16-0 18-0 24*5 " Silicon ... ... ... ... 26-0 34-0 49-0 " Aluminium ... ... ... ... 28*0 36-0 54-0 Dividing these values by the percentage at the head of each column , it will be seen that as the alloy becomes richer in the added element the increase of electric resistivity becomes less and less for every one per cent , of the element added .
The comparative effect of carbon is difficult to ascertain owing to various causes , ( a ) the impossibility of making homogeneous alloys of iron with large percentages of carbon , the highest carbon in our specimens being 1- ] per cent. ; ( b ) the different conditions in which the carbon may exist in the alloy ; and the difficulty of excluding impurities such as manganese and silicon , minute amounts of which exert a serious effect on the conductivity .
However , by comparing the conductivity of alloys of iron having nearly similar quantities of Si and Mn , but containing different quantities of carbon , a close approximation of the effect of this element on the conductivity of iron is arrived at .
The result shows that the increase of one-tenth of one per cent , of carbon in iron containing 003 carbon causes an increase in the specific resistance of nearly 2 microhms per c.c. , but when the carbon is raised from 043 to 143 the increase in specific resistance is at the rate of 5 microhms for 1 per cent , of added carbon , about one-fourth of the rate of increase at the smaller percentages .
The position of carbon on Table I therefore appears to lie near to chromium .
From specimens of two impure alloys containing cobalt with iron , the increase of resistance produced by cobalt was estimated to be^omewhat less than nickel but greater than tungsten ; its position in Table I would therefore appear to lie near to nickel .
If now we compare the increase of resistance in iron produced by alloying it with these elements , with the atomic weights of the added elements , we find , as a rule , that those elements with the highest VOL. LXIX .
o M 484 Increase of Electrical Resistivity caused by Alloying Iron .
atomic weight produce the least increase in electric resistivity and vice versed .
For the sake of such a comparison , the molecular weights of these elements , if we knew them , rather than the atomic weights , should be taken .
This is especially true in the case of carbon , the molecular weight of which , if this analogy holds good , would appear to be four times its atomic weight .
If , instead of the atomic weights , we take the specific heats of these elements , so far as they are known , we are likely to arrive at a better knowledge of their relative atomic or molecular masses , and a comparison of the order of specific heats with the order of increase of electric resistivity is very striking .
This is shown in the next table.* Dividing the increase in electric resistivity by the percentage of the added metal , we obtain the increase in the specific resistance of iron produced by 1 per cent , of the added element .
This is shown for a 2 per cent , alloy ( except in the case of carbon ) in the second column of Table II , along with the specific heats and atomic weights of the .elements named in the first column .
Table II .
Alloy of iron .
Increase of .
resistivity for 1 per cent. Specific heat .
' Atomic weight .
Tungsten . . . .
2*0 0 035 184 Cobalt 3*0 0 '107 59 Nickel 3-5 0 T09 59 t Chromium 5*0 0 T ( ?
) 52 Carbonf 5*0 0 T60J 12 Manganese 8-0 0 T22 55 Silicon . . .
13 -0 0*183 28 Aluminium ... . .
14 *0 0*212 27 I venture to think that the correspondence shown in columns 2 and 3 of the foregoing table is something more than a chance coincidence .
It is , however , desirable to have exact determinations of the resistivity of a larger number of alloys of iron before any definite conclusions ca.n be reached .
A series of experiments are in progress for the measurement of the relative thermal conductivity of the foregoing alloys .
About forty determinations have been made , and so far the order of thermal * The values for the specific heats are taken from Landolt an\lt ; J Bernstein 's great work on Physical Constants .
The specific heat determinations are chiefly by Regnault , between 9 ' and 97 ' C. + For a 1 per cent , alloy .
% .
t As qraphites as diamond the specific heat of carbon is 0113 , according to H. F. Weber .
Oil ci Pair of Ciliated Grooves in the Brain of the 485 conductivity has been found to be the same as that of their electrical conductivity .
As regards the magnetic permeability of these alloys , the order is very different from that of their electric conductivity .
The most highly permeable alloys are those formed of aluminium and silicon with iron .
In fact , the magnetic permeability of an alloy of iron with '21 per cent , of silicon exceeds that of the best and purest annealed iron up to a field of 10 C.G.S. units .
Still more remarkable is a pure and well annealed alloy of aluminium and iron ; although it contains a considerable percentage of non-magnetic elements , its magnetic permeability and maximum induction up to a field of 60 units exceeds the best and purest annealed iron that I can obtain , a specimen of Swedish charcoal iron containing 99*9 per cent , of iron , all the specimens having been subjected to a precisely similar annealing process .
It is possible the increased magnetic susceptibility given to iron by aluminium , and to a less extent by silicon , may be due to the strong chemical affinity which these elements have for oxygen , whereby any of this gas which might be dissociated in the molten iron would be removed , and the texture of the metal thus rendered closer and more uniform .
In the same way , by combining with the oxygen , they would remove , as my colleague Professor Hartley suggests , traces of oxide of iron , more or less diffused through all iron ; and the presence of which would certainly lower the magnetic susceptibility .
The remarkable magnetic properties of these two alloys , especially of the aluminium-iron alloy , is a matter not only of considerable theoretic interest but obviously is also of great practical importance in electrical engineering .
" On a Pair of Ciliated Grooves in the Brain of the Ammoccete apparently serving to promote the Circulation of the Fluid in the Brain-cavity .
" By Arthur Bendy , D.Sc .
, F.L.S. , Professor of Biology in the Canterbury College , University of New Zealand .
Communicated by Professor G. B. Howes , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read February 20 , 1902 .
The peculiar and apparently hitherto undescribed structures which form the subject of the present communication , were first discovered in the course of an as yet unfinished investigation of the parietal organs in the New Zealand Lamprey australis ) .
The Ammocoete of this interesting species is known to us only through two specimens :

