The following papers were read:1 .
" Remarks on certain points in Experiments on the Diffraction of Light .
" By the Rev. Baden Powell , M.A. , F.R.S. &amp;c. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .
Received Nov. 10 , 1851 .
The chief object of this communication was to examine into the experimental evidence adduced in a recent paper by Lord Brougham ( Phil. Trans. , 1850 , Part I. ) , without at all entering on the question of the peculiar theory therein proposed , solely with the view of inquiring how far the actual new facts adduced , when simply stated and divested of the peculiar theoretical language in which they are delivered , do or do not militate against the undulatory theory .
The author had devoted a portion of the summer to a careful repetition of all the chief experiments described in the paper referred to , in some of which , however , he had been unable to reproduce the results described .
After referring to the preliminary experiments described in that paper , and the attempt there made to refute the theory of interferences , he remarks , that the theory of interferences explains perfectly both the internal and external fringes of a shadow ; that the breadth of the fringes has no dependence on the length of route of the rays , but it has on the angle at which they intersect ; and that interference also perfectly explains the fringes , even when the action is wholly on one side of the ray or edges .
Passing from these points of confessedly less importance , the author proceeds to consider the most material and fundamental experiment , in which , when fringes are formed by the edge of an opake body , if a second edge be placed at a greater distance along the ray , from the origin , on the same side as the first edge , it produces no change in the fringes ; but on the opposite side it does , the fringes being shifted in position towards the first side ; or , in other words , that the second edge , in the one case , has no power of producing further diffraction , in the other it has ; and which has been viewed as supporting the theory of a peculiar action exerted by the edge upon the ray passing near it , by which it is disposed or indisposed for further flexure according to the conditions just expressed .
With reference to the edges on opposite sides , he observes , that when they are at the same distance from the origin , and form there a narrow aperture , they give ( as is well known ) fringes on each side extending into the shadow , with a white centre .
As one edge is removed successively further from the origin along the ray and nearer to the screen , the fringes on that side dilate , become faint , and at length disappear ; so that beyond a certain distance there remain only the fringes on the other side , or on that of the edge nearest the origin ; which diverge further into the shadow on that side as the breadth of the effective aperture is diminished .
In this way , then , the second edge , if beyond the limits of distance just men , tioned , will cause an appearance of fringes on the side towards the first edge , diverging into the shadow .
When the two edges are at the same distance from the origin , forming a narrow aperture , the nature of the fringes is perfectly explained and reduced to quantitative results by Fresnel 's theory .
When the second edge is placed at a greater distance along the ray , this would be equivalent to a wide aperture placed obliquely to the direction of the ray , so as to be effectively as narrow as before .
On the undulatory theory , this particular case has not been actually reduced to calculation , and it appears that it would certainly involve most complicated and difficult analysis to do so .
It has however been treated in a general way by Fresnel himself ( Memoir sir la Diffraction , Mem. de l'Instit .
, tom .
v. note , p. 452 ) , who points out the general conditions for determining the condition of a fringe , and shows that the fringes will in this case undergo a modification , and will not be symmetrical , but more expanded on one side than on the other ; which exactly agrees with observation .
After some remarks having the same bearing on other facts and propositions in the paper referred to , the author concludes by observing , -I have thus , I trust , with perfect impartiality , gone through all the main experimental points of the investigation ; and , upon the whole , I can perceive nothing substantiated which is positively irreconcilable with the principle of interference ; while the new modifications of the phenomena here presented , so far as general considerations can be relied on , seem sufficiently conformable to the undulatory theory ; but as to their more exact quantitative explanation , no definitive opinion can be pronounced until certain analytical investigations of great length and complexity shall have been gone through ; by which alone theory can be brought into exact and satisfactory comparison with experiment .

