94 Misses A. Johnson and L. Sheldon .
[ Jan. 28 , III .
" On the Development of the Cranial Nerves of the Newt .
" By Alice Johnson , Demonstrator of Biology , Newnham College , Cambridge , and Lilian Sheldon , Bathurst Student , Newnham College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received January 14 , 1886 .
The peripheral nervous system of the Newt does not begin to develop until the medullary canal has become completely separate from the external epiblast .
A neural ridge appears on the dorsal surface of the medullary canal , and , at regular intervals , paired lateral prolongations of it grow out and form the spinal and cranial nerves .
The former grow down between the medullary canal and muscle-plates , the original outgrowth , in each case , becoming the dorsal root , while the ventral root is formed later .
In the head , where there are no muscle-plates , the nerves are situated nearer to the surface .
The 3rd , the 5th , the common rudiment of the 7th and 8th , the 9th , the 10th , and , probably , the olfactory nerves , all develop as outgrowths of the neural ridge .
We have not traced the development of the 4th and 6th nerves .
At first the cranial nerves are of necessity attached to the dorsal surface of the brain , since they arise from the neural ridge .
The attachment next widens out , extending further down the side of the brain .
Later , the dorsal part of the attachment is lost , the ventral part alone remaining as the permanent root .
There is no secondary attachment entirely distinct from the first , and no part of the nerve is at any time situated dorsal to the root .
This description applies specially to the 5th and 7th nerve-roots , but it is probably true for all the cranial nerves in which the shifting of the roots takes place .
As soon as the cranial nerves become apparent , a series of thickenings of the inner layer of the epiblast appears on each side of the head .
These thickenings , which are paired , are situated slightly above the level of the notochord , and correspond respectively to the 5th , 7th , 9th , and probably also to the 10th nerves .
They are destined to give rise to the mucous canals of the head .
The olfactory organ and ear have similar relations to the 1st and 8th nerves , and may possibly belong to the same morphological category as these sense-organs ; but this point seems very doubtful .
The mucous canals are at first confined to the head , but afterwards are present in the trunk also , and increase greatly in number .
The nerves are directed outwards and downwards from the dorsal surface of the brain , each towards the sensory epiblastic thickening corresponding to it .
After a short time , the two structures fuse together indistinguishably , so that a mass of cells is formed at this point , continuous , on the one hand , with the external epiblast , and , on 1886 .
] On the Cranial Nerves of the .
the other , with the nerve-root .
The nerve-elements of this mass are probably derived from the nerves , and the sense-elements from the epiblast .
This description holds for the 5th , 7th , and 9th nerves .
We have not ascertained whether it is also true of the 1 Oth .
The common rudiment of the 7th and 8th nerves fuses with the sensory epiblast at two points\#151 ; one behind the other .
The posterior of these gives rise to the ear , the anterior to the sense-organ of the 7th nerve .
Soon after the fusion has taken place , the common rudiment of the two nerves divides into two complete trunks , one innervating the ear , and the other the sense-organ of the 7th nerve .
At the point where the 5th nerve is fused with the skin , the Gasserian ganglion is formed .
Later , it begins to separate from the epiblast , retiring from the surface , but remaining still attached to it by a cord of cells , which constitutes the ophthalmic branch of the 5th nerve .
At the same time , a main trunk grows out from the ganglion and soon divides into two branches\#151 ; the inferior and superior maxillary .
The 7th and 9th nerves develop similarly to each other , but in a somewhat different way from the 5th .
In each the main trunk passes onwards from its point of fusion with the epiblast towards the corresponding visceral cleft and fuses again with the epiblast of its dorsal wall , the 7th nerve , as usual , innervating the 1st cleft , and the 9th nerve the 2nd cleft .
The clefts at this time are not perforated , but represented merely by lateral outgrowths of the fore-gut , which have fused with the epiblast at the points of contact .
The ganglion which has been formed on the upper part of the trunk in connexion with the sensory epithelium next sinks inwards , remaining attached to the epiblast by a nerve-branch , as in the case of the 5th nerve .
The lower part of the trunk becomes completely detached from its connexion with the epiblast , and gives off two branches , one behind , and one in front of the visceral cleft .
Thus the first two clefts are each provided with a post-branchial and a pree-branchial branch , derived from the 7th and 9th nerves .
We believe that all these branches of the cranial nerves are derived from the original outgrowths from the brain , none of them being split off from the external epiblast , as Mr. Beard has described in Elasmo-branchs , and Mr. Spencer in Amphibia .
The fusion of some of the nerves with the skin seems to be comparable with what is known to occur in vertebrate embryos generally , in the nose and ear , where the nerve grows out from the brain to fuse with the sensory epithelium , and we take all such cases to be merely instances of the innervation of sense-organs .
The innervation is generally completed very early in the nose and ear , and , in the Newt , it appears to take place rather earlier than usual in the mucous canals .
Our observations seem to point distinctly to this conclusion rather than to the view that the nerves are , even partially , derived from the external epiblast .

