6 Prof. J. Prestwich .
On the Origin [ May 1 , where Q\#187 ; is the biaxal harmonic of the ith degree , whose pole is in OP , and which may therefore be expressed in the usual way , according to Laplace 's addition formula .
The differentiations are then easily performed .
III .
" On the Origin of the Parallel Roads of Lochaber , and their bearing on other Phenomena of the Glacial Period .
" By Joseph Prestwich , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.G.S. , \amp ; c. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
Received March 27 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) Of the various hypotheses that have been brought forward since the time of Macculloch and Dick-Lauder to account for the origin of the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy , the one so ably propounded by Mr. Jamieson , in 1863 , has been most generally received and adopted .
It is a modification of the views originally expressed by Agassiz , to the effect that the barriers of the lakes , \#151 ; to the shore action of which both the above-named geologists attributed the " roads , " but were at a loss to account both for the formation and removal of barriers , \#151 ; had been formed during the glacial period by glaciers issuing from Glen Treig and Glen Arkaig , supplemented by others from Ben Nevis .
The subsequent determination , by the Scotch geologists , of an intermediate milder period succeeded by a second cold period , led Mr. Jamieson , with whom the preglacial and glacial deposits of Scotland had been a subject of especial investigation , to conclude that the extension of these two glaciers took place during the second cold period , which he thinks was of little less intensity than the first , and that , while the glacier from Glen Arkaig blocked up Glen Gluoy , the glacier from Glen Treig formed a barrier to Glen Roy .
He observes , " Grant , then , these two ice-streams , one in the Great Caledonian Valley and the other at Glen Treig , and the problem of the Parallel Roads can be solved , provided we allow that glaciers have the power to dam such deep bodies of water as must have occupied Glen Gluoy and Glen Roy .
" Mr. Jamieson , in support of this view , adduces the extensive glaciation apparent at the entrance both of Glen Arkaig and of Glen Treig , and shows that near the entrance of Glen Gluoy there are ice striae , pointing W. 5 N. , or in the direction that a glacier coming from Glen Arkaig would take , and that , in the Spean Valley , opposite Glen Treig , the ice striae are transverse to the valley , or in the direction of the axis of Loch Treig , while on either side they point respectively up and down Glen Spean .
He infers , consequently , that the central 1879.1 of the Parallel Roads of Locliaber .
portion of the glacier ascended the opposite hill to the Col of Glen Glaster , while another portion passed down the valley blocking Glen Roy , and a third portion travelled up the valley eastward to the Pass of Makoul , and thence into the valley of the Spey .
The " roads " were , he considers , formed by long-continued shore action at each successive level of the lake , that level being determined by the height of the cols over which the lake waters escaped .
In proof of the long duration of the lakes , Mr. Jamieson refers to the dimensions of the " roads , " and the large size of the mounds at the junction of Glen Turret and Glen Roy , and of that at the entrance of the Gulban in Glen Spean , which mounds he considers to be deltas formed by the respective streams flowing into the old lakes .
To these views it has been objected , by Mr. Milne-Home and others , that it is difficult to conceive the glens to the north of the Spean Valley to have been filled with water while at the same time those on the south were filled with ice , and he advocates a detrital barrier formed of clay , sand , and gravel , by marine origin , when the sea stood some 3,000 feet higher than at present .
There is , however , a want of evidence of marine action , and it is difficult to imagine that beds of loose clay , sand , and gravel , formed in this way , could be watertight , while there is a further difficulty in accounting for the origin of the materials and the subsequent removal of such vast barriers .
Professor Nicol , also , has pointed out that , had lakes existed in Glen Gluoy , Glen Roy , and Glen Spean for the length of time required to form the " roads " by erosion , and to accumulate the deltas , the cols by which their surplus waters escaped during those periods must have cut a channel in the rocks in the same way that the rivers ( which now represent the same drainage , or probably less ) have since excavated their channels in the present valleys ; whereas , although there are indications of water-wear in the passes , nothing like a defined river channel exists .
Professor Nicol has attempted to explain the facts on the theory of the " roads " being sea beaches .
But the absence of corresponding beaches outside those glens\#151 ; the limitation of the highest " road " to Glen Gluoy\#151 ; and of the second and third to Glen Roy , and the want of corroboration by marine remains in any of the various drift beds , renders the marine hypothesis inadmissible .
Sir John Lubbock , looking at the form of the " roads " which has been described by Macculloch as parallel layers applied in succession to the sides of the hills , contends that such a form is incompatible either with the heaping up of materials on a shore line , or with their removal by erosion , as in the one case a notch and in the other a projecting ledge in the hill side would be formed , whereas , with one exception of a superior talus pointed out by Macculloch , no such structure exists .
Sir John points out that a parallelism between the slopes may , however , have been formed by wavelet action , in con- 8 Prof. J. Prestwich .
the Origin [ May 1 , sequence of the detrital matter taking , as it successively fell and was removed , the same angle of repose as that which the detrital slopes originally had , that angle being the same in water as in air .
But the angle of the slopes varies from 25 ' to 35 ' , whereas , the angle of repose of such loose materials as would fall down the slopes is as high as 38 ' to 40 ' .
Besides these objections to Mr. Jamieson 's hypothesis , which the author considers valid , he points out the difficulty of conceiving that the Arkaig glacier , which was fed by mountains not more than 2,000 or 3,240 feet high , and had to travel , not down a steep gradient , but along a level lake basin 12 miles long , then to traverse Loch Lochy , 457 feet deep , could have ascended the hills at the entrance of Glen Gluoy to a height of not less than 1,200 feet , while at the same time a pass existed at the head of the glen only 500 feet high , which presented a ready outlet to the west coast .
Or , if prevented from taking that course , why should not the Arkaig glacier , when it issued into the Great Glen , have taken the line of least resistance and passed either up or down the Great Glen , where the gradients are so small ?
It is a question also whether active glaciers such as Mr. Jamieson requires , could have formed permanent dams to the large bodies of water pent up in Glen Gluoy and Glen Roy .
Glacier lakes are occasionally formed in the Alps , as in the instance of the Margelen See , by glaciers when below the snow line , passing lateral glens whose streams they dam back , but they are much more common in the Himalayas .
These lakes , however , never last many seasons .
The glacier is constantly on the move , and so long as it presents an unbroken front to the lake , so long is the barrier efficient , but when in the progress of the glacier a fissured mass of ice comes forward , the water at once escapes with greater or lesser rapidity , and cannot again accumulate until the defective ice has travelled past or the leak is repaired by winter frosts .
In the known recent instances of such glacier lakes , they are so small compared to the great mass of the glaciers , that the latter are not affected by the escape of the lakes\#151 ; the fissures only are enlarged ; but with the great size of the Glen Roy and Glen Spean lakes , and the enormous pressure exercised by columns of water 500 .to 800 feet deep , would the preservation of the barriers and the restoration of the lake be possible ?
Equally difficult is it to imagine the existence of such vast glaciers as those of Glen Arkaig and Glen Treig , while the opposite glens of the Gluoy and Roy remained free from ice .
For the hills around Glen Arkaig are but little higher than those around Glen Gluoy , and not so high as those around Glen Roy ; those to the eastward of the latter valley are in fact nearly equal in height to the range on the south of the Spean with the single exception of Ben Nevis and the 1879 .
] of the Parallel Hoads of Pochaber .
adjacent Ben Aonach .
The difference is too slight to allow of so great a variation in the level of the snow line , and the cause suggested by Mr. Jamieson , viz. , a great difference in the rainfall such as it now obtains in this district , can scarcely be maintained , for although the annual fall at Fort William is 86 inches , and at Laggan 46 inches , the rainfall at Roy Bridge has now been found to be as much as 62 inches .
Further , for the argument to be of any value , it should be shown that in the country further eastward where the rainfall is much less , there was the like absence of glaciers during the second period , whereas Chambers and other geologists , including Mr. Jamieson himself , have shown that during that period local glaciers descended from every mountain range , approaching or exceeding 3,000 feet in height\#151 ; a height attained as already remarked by the hills to the north as well as by those to the south of the Spean .
With respect to the so-called " deltas " of the Turret in Glen Roy , and of the Gulban in Glen Spean , which are supposed to have accumulated during the long time that the lakes filled the valleys , the author shows that the structure of the former is not in accordance with the bedded structure of deltas , but on the contrary that it is formed of unstratified moraine debris 50 to 80 feet thick , with a thin coating of gravel water-worn and reconstructed from the underlying mass , and that the angle of terminal slope is not that of original deposition , but is due to wearing back of the terrace by the Roy , and the fall of the debris by weathering .
The foregoing are the objections raised by the author to the hypothesis of Mr. Jamieson , but while objecting to this exposition of the glacial theory , he considers that that theory affords the most satisfactory solution of the problem , only that he would suggest a different interpretation in explanation of the phenomena , the description of which he does not think it necessary to repeat .
Views of the Author .
Dismissing the hypothesis of local glaciers of the second period of glaciation , the author falls back upon the original idea of Agassiz with the development acquired by more recent research , and assigns the Lochaber lakes to the close of the first period of great glaciation .
He considers the phenomena are due to the peculiar physiographical conditions of the district , and shows that owing to the configuration of the country , the drainage of the Ben Nevis range instead of flowing off from the centre to two or more sides , is all diverted northward into the lower part of the Spean Valley and the Great Glen near Fort William .
These conditions which now give this area an excess of water drainage , must in the like manner , during the glacial period , have there led to an exceptional accumulation of ice .
10 Prof. J. Prestwich .
On the Origin [ May 1 , The observations of MacLaren , Chambers , Milne-Home , Jamieson , James Geikie and others , sufficiently prove the great thickness of the ice covering in this part of Scotland during the first period of intense glaciation .
On the flanks of the Ben Nevis range , glacial striae extend to a height of more than 2,000 feet , while on the hills facing this range , and on the opposite side of the Spean Valley , such striae have been traced to nearly the same height , as for example to nearly the summit , of Craig Dhu near the entrance of Glen Roy , and on the hills above the Rough Burn by Mr. Milne-Home to a height of 1,600 feet .
Everywhere , the rocks in the lower parts of Glen Spean are intensely glaciated , as are also those at the head of Glen Roy and around the Cols of Glen Glaster and Makoul .
At the same time , the erratic blocks with those beds of sand and gravel of foreign origin which have been found widely distributed over the hills around Glen Roy to heights of from 800 to 2,100 feet , afford confirmatory testimony of the depth of the land ice which then covered the country .
There can be little doubt therefore of the vast extent and general spread of the ice-sheet at the first period of glaciation .
With the incoming of this glacial period , local glaciers must have descended from every mountain range , and so long as the glacier of one steep glen became confluent with another of the same chain flowing in the same general direction , so long would their course be uninterrupted , and the propelling and abrading force maintained , as in the Alps at the present day ; but when , emerging from these glens into valleys of small gradients dividing the several mountain chains , they met with glaciers descending from these other ranges , their progress was not only subject to be checked , and their forces neutralised , but their course diverted , for if the lines of natural drainage .were barred , the ice took those of least resistance , although such might be up-hill and against the lines of drainage .
This , however , could not be effected without excessive pressure and heaping up of the ice at the points of junction .
These interferences must have been especially frequent in the valley of the Spean .
On the one side , the glaciers descending the steep ravines of Larig Leachach , the Cour and others on the northern flank of the Ben Nevis range , issued into Glen Spean and projected across it to the Glen Roy hills opposite .
Below to the west , the great Nevis Glen glacier emerged into the valley of the Lochy , while above*to the east the great glacier from Glen Treig turned down Glen Spean , but , meeting with the aforesaid group of glaciers from Ben Nevis , was partly diverted over the flanks of Craig Dhu , and upon the entrance to Glen Roy .
While the glaciers from this system of mountains were becoming confluent in and filling Glen Spean , those from the opposite range of hills were descending Glen Roy , Glen Eeitheil , the Rough 1879 .
] of the Parallel Roads Bum , and the other ravines of that chain , and coming into collision with those of the Ben Nevis range .
In the same way , the valley of Loch Eil , Glen Nevis , Glen Mhnilinn , Glen Loy , and others were focussing their glaciers upon the end of the Great Glen north of Ben Nevis , barring in that direction the passage of the ice down Glen Spean , and .
diverting it northward towards Loch Lochy and Loch Oich .
The ice therefore descending Glen Spean , in consequence of these obstructions , accumulated in mass in the lower part of that valley opposite Glen Roy , until overcoming further resistance and confluent with the Ben Nevis glaciers it wheeled round into the Great Glen at Loch Lochy , where the united stream found not Oddly a more contracted passage , but met also at right angles the glacier issuing from Glen Arkaig , by which it was forced against and up the entrance to Glen Gluoy opposite .
This direction of the flow is in accordance with ice striae noticed by Mr. Jamieson on the flank of Strone-y-Vaa , and by Mr. J. Campbell , of Islay , to the west of Spean Bridge ; but it is not so readily recon-cileable with those at the entrance of Glen Gluoy .
It may be a question , however , whether the striae , in the Spean Valley , facing and flanking the entrance to Glen Treig , are all to be interpreted in the way suggested by Mr. Jamieson .
There is no doubt from the direction of the striae , and the position of the transported boulders , that the mass of the Treig glacier struck across the valley of the Spean , and turned down its channel westward ; but that a part ascended to the Col of Glen Glaster , and another passed up the Spean Valley is doubtful .
It is more probable that this glacier after traversing Strath Spean , met with glaciers coming down Glen Eeitheil and the Rough Bum , which caused it to turn down the Spean Valley , while it barred the passage of these other glaciers and diverted them up the valley in the direction of Loch Laggan an$ over the Pass of Makoul .
The direction of the striae observed by the author between the Rough Burn and Moy , points , he considers , to ice coming down from the hills on the north and joining the main east stream .
The effects of these great conflicting ice streams were not confined to the piling up and accumulation of the ice only .
Although glaciers confined by the walls of narrow glens , and descending steep slopes exercise great abrading power , the observations of Charpentier and others show that when they emerge into broader and flatter valleys , they may pass over beds of loose detritus without disturbance except that of pressure .
The terminal moraines of the many glaciers emerging into Glen Spean may , according to the varying conditions of the ice , have been pushed forward or rolled over by the ice , while the meeting of conflicting glaciers must have led to the deposition and heaping up of the glacial debris at the points of junction .
The many checks and 12 prof .
J. Prestwich .
On Origin [ May 1 , blocks that must have occurred during the growth of the great ice-sheet\#151 ; the neutralisation of the ice-force in one place , and the centralisation of it in others\#151 ; will serve to explain much that is peculiar in the distribution of this sub-glacial or Till , not only in Lochaber , but in other parts of the country , and at all levels .
The author then points out the many mounds and terraces in the Spean Valley formed of moraine detritus , though since levelled and often masked by a covering of gravel due to subsequent water action .
To this cause also he attributes the large accumulation of debris at the entrance to Glen Roy , between Bohuntine and Glen Glaster , where he shows it to be in places 200 to 300 feet deep , and to consist of a light grey argillaceous unstratified matrix with angular fragments of the local rocks capped by stratified gravel .
The mass rises nearly to the level of the lower parallel road .
Mr. Milne-Home has pointed out a similar deposit at the entrance to Glen Collarig , while the large mass at the entrance of Glen Spean , and now forming Unachan Hill , rising to a height of 613 feet , has been often described .
The importance of these great deposits in the position occupied by the main ice barriers cannot be overlooked , for though river action and denudation has removed much of them , the portions which remain show how materially they may have contributed with the ice in forming the great lake barriers .
The next question discussed is the height of the land in relation to the sea at the period of the great glaciation , as it is not possible to suppose that with the great changes of level which took place subsequently , there is now a return to the quo ante of the earlier period ; and the author sees reason to conclude that the land then stood at not less than from 1,000 to 1,500 feet higher than at present , so that the Irish Channel was then above the sea level , and land extended a considerable distance westward from the present coast of Scotland .
This was followed by a submergence of not less than 1,200 to 1,500 feet in central and northern England , Wales , and Ireland , and of 600 feet in the southern part of Scotland , as proved by the occurrence of marine shells at those heights .
There is no similar evidence* however , to show that it was more than 800 feet in Aberdeenshire , or 175 feet off the north-west coast .
Still , it is not to be concluded on negative evidence alone of the absence of marine shells that the sea reached no higher over the north of Scotland .
Assuming there at all events a submergence of 400 to 500 feet below the present level , this , added to the previous elevation of 1,000 to 1,500 feet , would establish a difference of 1,500 to 2,000 feet between the period of great glaciation and the succeeding period of submergence .
This difference of level would produce a twofold effect upon the climate the one resulting from altitude which would be equal to a rise in the mean temperature of from 4 ' to 6 ' F. , and that caused by 1879 .
] of the Parallel Roads of Lochaher .
the conversion of a continental area into an archipelago , for then in \lt ; consequence of the submergence , the Highlands of Scotland became surrounded by an open sea with only the higher peaks of England , Wales , and Ireland above the waters , and the warm currents of the Atlantic reached the foot of the Scottish mountains .
The effects of - the two causes could not be less than from 12 ' to 15 ' E. , which is about equivalent to the difference of climate between Paris and St. Petersburg .
There is also to be taken into account the probable \#163 ; ; increase of heat consequent on the gradual diminution of those con-i ditions , whatever they were , to which was owing the cold of the glacial period .
The effect of those changes was to produce a thaw which gradually led to the destruction of the great ice-sheet , though subsequently other juj changes brought for a time a return of cold sufficient to maintain local ni glaciers in the higher mountain ranges .
The conditions under which i the ice-sheet would be placed during this period would be similar to that of glaciers where they extend below the snow line .
In Europe m the glacier gradients are usually so steep and the ice is so fissured , that even in such positions water rarely lodges on the surface ; still it does at some places give rise to small pools and streams , but in the Hima-layas , where glaciers descend into wide valleys with small gradients , and the summer heat is considerable , the glaciers often become covered with tarns and small lakes .
They have been noticed by Sir J. D. Hooker and more lately by Colonel Godwin-Austen , who J describes in the middle of one of these glaciers , a series of such lakes , 7 some being 500 yards in length and 200 to 300 in breadth , and of great depth .
As intervening barriers give way , these lakes descend .in course of time from lower to lower levels , and finally escape .
In the same way the old ice-sheet must have become covered with ^ pools and lakes , for owing to the irregular surface of the ice , and the inevitable absence of all channels of drainage , the water must everywhere have lodged , until channels were formed , and a means of escape W established .
The extent of these bodies of water would depend upon the height and permanence of the obstructions .
In the Lochaber ^ district they were , owing to the causes before named , of great size .M and permanence , such as to form high barriers at the entrance to Glen Roy , Glen Spean , and Glen Gluoy , behind which the waters ^ accumulated and rose until they found a channel of escape over the cols toj at lower levels , when a permanent water-level would be established L to go long as the main barriers existed .
It is well known that the Parallel Roads are terraces composed of perfectly angular fragments of the local rocks with a few rounded pebbles both local and foreign to the district .
The former show an Dili entire absence of any prolonged beach wear .
The wear of the latter jltto is due to other causes .
There is also an entire absence of any notch A ' 14 Prof. J. Prestwich .
On Origin [ May 1 , oi* cliff line such as would be due to the wearing back of a shore line , and of any projecting ledge such as would result from the throwing forward of the shore debris .
The slope of the hills above and below the " roads " varies from 25 ' to 40 ' , and the inclination with the horizon of the " roads " themselves , which are from 50 to 70 feet wide , varies within the limits of from 5 ' to 30 ' .
Of the internal structure of the " roads " very little is known .
The only published section is the one given by the Rev. Thomas Brown in his paper on the " Parallel Roads .
" This shows a thick substratum of about 20 feet of sandy clay with angular debris and boulders , covered by a thick seam of stratified clay , and then by 2 to 3 feet of clay with stones .
There is no appearance in this section nor in another unpublished section of Mr. Brown 's , of any such structure as would result from successive additions to the ledge by the tipping over of debris removed from the shore .
Although therefore the " roads " indicate a line of water-level , there is nothing in their form or structure to show that they have been formed by the long-continued action of lake waters on a shore line .
To what then are they to be ascribed ?
The first or highest " road " is confined to Glen Gluoy , the second and third to Glen Roy , and the fourth or lowest to Glen Roy and Glen Spean .
What the conditions were immediately antecedent to the formation of the first , second , and fourth road , is not shown , but in the case of the third road , the conditions preceding its formation are to be traced uninterruptedly from the conclusion of No. 2 " Road .
" When the lake stood at the level of " Road " No. 2 , its waters escaped by the col leading to Glen Spey , while when they stood at the level of No. 3 " Road , " they escaped by the Glen Glaster Col. Now as there is a difference of 76 feet between the height of the two cols , it is evident that a barrier must have existed on the latter col during the time the lake stood at the higher level .
Whether the barrier was detrital or ice-formed is immaterial for the argument .
In both cases , either by gradual weathering or melting , the time would come when the barrier would be lowered in some place to the level of the lake .
Now , it is well known to engineers that a breach once established in a detrital barrier becomes so rapidly enlarged that , if not at once stopped , nothing can stay the rapid destruction of the barrier , as , in the case of the Holmfirth , Crinan , and other floods .
Nor is evidence wanting of similar catastrophes in connexion with glacier lakes .
In the notable case of the Gietroz Glacier barring the valley of the Drance , a lake was formed which attained a length of nearly 2 miles , and a depth at the barred end of 200 feet .
So rapid was the discharge when the barrier yielded that the lake was drained in twenty minutes .
The still greater flood recorded by Vigne , which descended a branch of the Indus in one day for a distance of 125 miles , has since been shown by 1879 .
] of the Parallel Roads of Lochaher .
Mr. Drew to have been caused by the bursting of a detrital barrier formed by a landslip .
In consequence of this a lake had been formed , which he estimates to have been 35 miles long by 1 mile broad and 300 feet deep at its lower end .
The whole was drained in a day .
In the same way , it is to be assumed that the Glen Glaster barrier , which was probably formed by a remnant of the glaciers descending from the mountain ranges ( 2,994 feet ) at the head of the glen , at last gave way with great suddenness , and caused the rapid fall of the waters from the level of the higher " road " in Glen Roy to that of that glen 's second " road , " at the height of the Glen Glaster Col , when the escape of the waters was stopped .
Now , it must be borne in mind that , at this time , the great mantle of snow and ice which had so long covered the pountry , was passing away , leaving the surface of the hills in Glen Roy covered with a thick coating of angular local debris mixed with sand and clay , the result of the intense cold and of the decomposition of the underlying schistose and granitic rocks .
This and the glacial debris must have long remained bare and unprotected by vegetation ; at all events , that below the water-line was so .
Now , the angle of repose of purely angular and subangular debris varies within the limits of from 35 ' to 48 ' , but that of clayey sands , which when dry is from 21 ' to 37 ' , becomes , when saturated with water , as low as 14 ' to 22 ' .
The angle of repose of the hill-side debris would , therefore , depend on the relative proportion of the angular materials and their matrix , and on the extent of saturation .
The slopes of the hills being on the whole greater than that of the angle of repose of the saturated under-water rubble , this latter , easily set in motion on to the settlement of its constituent parts as the water drained from it , would as the level of the lake water fell , tend to slip or slide down with the falling water , and this slide would continue until the disturbing cause ceased , and the momentum of the mass was checked by the inertia of the water* gradually coming to rest on reaching the level of the col of escape .
The effect of the arrested slide , combined with the state of maximum saturation of the mass , would be to project it more horizontally forward , and form a ledge .
This ledge , modified slightly by subsequent subaerial action and weathering , and by the dressing of its slope on the occasion of the next fall of the lake , constitutes the " road .
" As the results are alike in the case of the other " roads , " although the causes which led to them must have been the same , there is not the same evidence of a minor col-barrier ; and it is shown that there is nothing incompatible in the features of the ground with the existence of such barriers , or rather that there is some evidence in each glen , however slight , of water lines at levels higher than the " roads .
" There are difficulties in the way of the lower * Even now after heavy rains large slides take place on the steeper slopes .
16 Prof. J. Prestwich .
On the Origin [ May 1 , " road , " No. 4 , which extends through Glen Roy and Glen Spean , that need discussion , but they are not considered more serious than these which attend the other hypothesis .
The theoretical inferences of structure agree fairly well with the facts so far as they are known .
Mr. Brown 's " clay with boulders indistinctly stratified with thin ( lenticular ) layers of sand , " represents the sliding detrital mass , \#151 ; the finely stratified sand and clay ; the sediment which subsided from the muddy lake waters after their fall ; and the 2 to 3 feet of stones with clay , \#151 ; the subaerial fall of debris from the slopes above .
In the substratum and overlying sediment , Mr. Brown found four species of fresh-water diatoms , while he found none in the upper bed .
This fact serves to confirm the subaqueous origin of the body of the ledge , while it tends further to disprove the marine hypothesis .
It has been before observed that , in all the cols , there is an entire absence of a defined water channel , such as would be worn by the long-continued flow of a river , but in all of them there are traces of strong water action , such as might result from the temporary passage of a large and rapid body of water .
With respect to the main barriers acting as dams to Glen Gluoy , Glen Roy , and Glen Spean , they were due , as already pointed out , to the circumstance of an accumulation of ice at these spots so excessive and so high as to last long after the ice generally in the lower tracks had given way .
Not , however , that any ice barrier could have been permanent for a great period of time , but this the author 's hypothesis does not require .
In any case , an ice-barrier in a state of rest will form a more effective barrier than when in motion .
Passing over the barrier at the entrance to Glen Gluoy , it is shown that the point where the Glen Roy barrier existed is that where a glacier coming down Glen Roy would meet in opposition the ice from Ben Ne vis and the Spean Valley ; and that this glen was occupied by a glacier is proved by the occurrence of glacial striae on the rocks forming the bed of the valley near Dalriach , and of Till , or boulder clay , lower down the valley , nearer Achavady .
But the great mass of the latter lies precisely on the spot where the Ordnance Survey have placed the line of barrier ; it was there heaped up by the same conflicting causes that produced the barrier of ice .
That it was originally larger and higher is proved by its occurring on the two sides of the valley , the river having worn a channel through it , and by the presence upon it of thick beds of water-worn and water-strewn gravel , the materials of which have been derived from the underlying deposit , and which was formed , in all probability , by the rush of the waters on the bursting of the barrier , for , in many places , the gravel is thrown back and over , as though by downward and outward pressure of water in motion .
This detrital mass extends for a length of 2 miles 1879 .
] of the Parallel Roads of Lochaber .
or more , and attains at one point where the carriage road crosses it , a height of 752 feet , that of the lower Parallel Road just above it being .860 feet .
The great harrier needed at the entrance of Glen Spean presents more difficulty on account of the width and depth of the valley .
The river is here 200 feet above the sea level , and the length of barrier required , 4 miles in extent .
It is , however , precisely on this ground that the great glaciers of Ben Nevis met the ice stream coming down Strathspean .
The ground rises , also , rather rapidly on both sides of the river , and from behind the line of barrier marked by the Ordnance Survey the rise is continuous to the summit of Unachan Hill , 613 feet high .
Now , this hill and the rising ground on the flanks of the valley consist of a thick substratum of till or boulder clay , with a covering of gravel , the latter formed in greater part , if not entirely , from the destruction of the former , so that there is little doubt that the detrital barrier here also was at one time much more important .
Still , although the detrital matter formed a considerable element , the author believes that the great mass of ice constituted the essential element in the barriers .
The Till , although accumulated in larger masses in the above-named sites , is found in places all up the valley , generally in the form of terraces covered by gravel , as at Inverroy , Murlaggan , Inverlaire , and elsewhere .
There is one feature common throughout , namely* the levelling and terracing of this glacial debris by subsequent water-action , which could not have been effected in the still waters of a lake bed , but probably took place on the bursting of the main barriers and during the rapid outflow of the waters .
To this cause may , also , be owing the terraces of the Turret , Gulban , and others , for it is to be remembered that the same glens which subsequently furnished the streams , had previously furnished glaciers .
Though these happened to be at the mouth of streams to which their origin has been ascribed , similar terraces occur elsewhere where \#163 ; there are no streams , and where the structure is the same .
The levelling of the original glacial mounds having been effected at the time of the drainage of the lakes , and having been then covered and masked by gravel , the terminal slopes were either formed at the same time by the outpouring waters as they fell to a lower level , or subsequently by wearing back by the present streams .
Some of the terraces ascribed by Chambers to sea margins may be due to these causes , at the same time it is possible that some of his lower terraces outside the Spean Valley , at levels of 70 to 200 feet , may be due to later marine action , and correspond with the raised beaches of Jura and the coast further north , at levels extending from 40 to 160 feet or more .
An objection may occur to the hypothesis here suggested for the formation of the Parallel Roads , in that , with elements so YOL .
xxix .
C Prof. J. Prestwicli .
On the Origin [ May 1 , variable as the problem has to deal with , the parallelism of the " roads " with the horizon , which has been remarked on by all observers from Macculloch downwards , could not have been maintained For the detritus of the hill sides varies , however slightly , in the relative proportions of rock fragments and soil , while the slopes above and below the " roads " also vary in their angle , so that , as these conditions varied , so would the momentum of the sliding mass vary , whilst the resisting force of inertia would remain the same .
The consequence would necessarily be , that the slide would continue at some places to a lower level than at others , and the line of the " roads " could not be throughout parallel with the horizon .
There is no doubt that , to all appearances , the " roads " are perfectly level , and such was the opinion of the author when standing on them and while working with the excellent 1-inch map of the Survey ; but afterwards , on referring to the elaborate 6-inch maps , he found the levels there given clearly show that the " roads " are neither at the exact height of the cols nor are they perfectly parallel with the horizon , after allowing for the variable inclination of the " roads , " and for the observations being made in their centre .
Instead of a perfect level water line , the " roads " are really slightly waved , the difference between the highest and lowest point being in the four " roads " taken in descending order , 15,11,15 , and 12 feet ; and while the level of the higher " roads " is in most instances below those of the several cols of escape , that of the lower " road " is in all instances above it .
Thus in Glen Gluoy , the " road " which is never more than 1 foot above the level of the Turret Col , is in places 14 feet below it .
The Glen Roy " roads , " Nos. 2 and 3 , rise 2 and 4 feet above the col of the Spey , and sink 7 and 13 feet below it , whereas No. 4 " Road " is never less either in Glen Roy or Glen Spean than 2 feet , and rises at places to 10 and 14 feet , above the Pass of Makoul .
Further , as the curves formed differ for each " road , " the variations cannot be due to a common cause , such as subsequent movements of the ground , but must be owing to differing conditions in each case local .
Nor do the levels on the two sides of the valleys correspond ; they often vary as much as 7 or 8 feet .
It is therefore not possible to reconcile these variations with the hypothesis of the " roads " being lines of water level due to shore action ; nor is the very variable inclination of the " roads " themselves compatible with that view , for on a strand where the slopes do not differ more than in these glens , there could not be that irregularity of surface which exists in the " roads .
" In the instances of the higher " roads , " the lower level of the curve is possibly due to the steeper slopes , whilst the fact that the lower " road , " No. 4 , remains above the level of the Pass of Makoul , may be due to the circumstance either of the slopes being less , or more probably to the fact of the lake having been so very much larger , the 1879 .
] of the Parallel Roads of Lochaber .
19 escape of the waters was consequently more prolonged , and the fall slower .
Various phenomena in connexion with the great ice-sheet in Lochaber and their connexion with the general question , are next considered .
The author objects to the term of moraine profonde to describe the drift of sub-glacial origin , as apt to lead to misunderstanding , although Hogard and other geologists have used it in the wider sense .
It is evident that the old ice-sheet acted under very different conditions to an ordinary glacier , and it is better to use such terms as moraine detritus or sub-glacial detritus for the sum total of sub-glacial products of the former , than employ a term which was originally and still is generally restricted to a single and comparatively small product of the former .
Besides this sub-glacial debris , there is the large quantity of debris that must have been scattered over the surface of the ice during its melting by streams and rivulets , or spread out in the temporary lakes which were formed at all levels , and may have given rise in many instances to sand and gravel terraces of variable extent .
But though true beaches are formed in certain glacial lakes , for ledges or shelves , such as constitute the Parallel Roads to be formed , a number of conditions must have concurred\#151 ; such as sufficient slopes , a detrital covering , barriers at the mouth of the glens , and cols of escape at their upper end .
As the barrier ridges on the old ice-sheet melted , or burst , the waters escaped to lower levels , carrying with them on or beneath the ice , a large portion of the surface detritus .
Formed at all levels up to 2,000 feet or more , these glacial lake waters in descending to lower levels met with other large bodies of water , and the transporting forces increased in power till the last stage was reached and open channels formed in the distant plains , leaving as marks of their passage down the valleys\#151 ; here great banks of gravel\#151 ; there deep beds of sand , according to the distance from the point of outburst .
To these floods , combined with river inundations and the modifications since brought about by fluviatile action , are due the various forms of escars , terraces , and other less defined detrital accumulations .
Conclusions .
The general conclusions drawn by the author from the phenomena in Lochaber and surrounding district , are :\#151 ; 1st .
That at the period of the first great glaciation of Scotland , the ice-sheet in Lochaber attained a thickness of not less than 2,000 to 2,500 feet , but that in consequence of the peculiar physiographical conditions of the district , the large ice-currents from Ben Nevis so clashed with others in the Spean and Lochy Valleys , that a block C 2 20 On the Origin of the Parallel Roads of Lochaher .
[ May 1 ensued which , led to an exceptional heaping np and accumulation of the ice in front of Glen Roy and Glen Gluoy .
2nd .
In consequence of the lowering and partial submergence of the land and its conversion from a continental area to an archipelago , combined possibly with some other more general cause , an amelioration of the climate took place attended by a gradual melting of the ice-sheet in all the lower tracts .
The snow and ice wasted from the valleys and from the lower mountain summits , and in the absence of any established water-courses , the hollows and depressions in the ice , when not fissured , were converted into pools and tarns , until the continued liquefaction opened out surface channels or interior fissures , by which the water could ultimately escape .
3rd .
That pending the establishment of natural lines of drainage , and in presence at places of unusual obstruction , the water accumulated in some valleys in larger bodies or lakes ; and if in those cases , the mouth of the valleys being closed by the main ice-barriers , other channels of escape such as cols or passes communicating with adjacent glens or valleys presented themselves , the water overflowed through these channels as soon as it rose to the height of such cols or passes .
Or should the cols have been also barred by ice , that ice would have given way as soon as the increasing height and pressure of the water proved sufficient .
When this happened , the water would at once fall to the fixed level regulated by the col , and thus no record , such as we have in Lochaber , might be left of the presence of the original bodies of water .
4th .
In the Lochaber district , while the exceptional accumulation of ice in the Spean Valley barred the entrance of the glens on the north side of that valley , their passes were also blocked by remnants of the great ice-sheet ; and the formation of the detrital shelves is due to the sudden bursting of these minor barriers , when the waters of the lake were discharged with great rapidity , until they fell to .
the level of .
the col .
Under these circumstances , the mass of loose debris covering the hill sides below the line of water level , gave way and slid after the retreating waters , until stayed with greater or lesser abruptness , according to the angle of slope and the volume of the mass , on the discharge ceasing and the waters coming to rest .
The shelves so formed , modified slightly by subsequent subaerial action , constitute the " roads .
" 5th .
The moraine detritus in places where the glaciers clashed , and where their progress consequently became checked or delayed , tended also to accumulate or heap up , and in this way in the Lochaber glens added to the strength and permanence of the ice-barriers .
6th , While the moraine detritus was irregularly distributed under the ice , or massed in particular places , the debris projected on the surface of the ice-stream and contained in its body , was either left in 1879 .
] On Electrical Discharges through Rarefied Gases .
21 situ on its liquefaction , or else was , as the result of the great floods consequent upon the bursting of lake barriers , carried successively to lower levels , leaving here and there banks of sand and gravel at various heights on the hill sides .
These destructive floods combined with the incessant river inundations due to the same general thaw of the great ice-sheet , carried down and spread out in the valleys and plains the great beds of gravel and sand , which , with the modifications since brought about by long continued fluviatile action , have given rise to various forms of escars , terraces , and other less defined accumulations of these detrital materials .
May 8 , 1879 .
tTHE PRESIDENT ( followed by Lord LINDSAY , Vice-President ) in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Sensitive State of Electrical Discharges through Rarefied Gases .
" By William Spottiswoode , P.R.S. , and S. Fletcher Moulton , late Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge .
Received April 2 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) It has frequently been remarked that the luminous column produced by electric discharges in vacuum tubes sometimes displays great sensitiveness on the approach of the finger , or other conductor , to the tube .
This is notably the case when with an induction coil a very rapid break is used , or when with any constant source of electricity an air-spark is interposed in the circuit leading to the tube .
The striking character of the phenomena , and the opportunity which they showed for affecting the discharge from the outside during its passage , led the authors of this paper to consider that a special examination of this sensitive state would be desirable .
All the circumstances under which sensitiveness is produced appear to agree in requiring , first , that there should be a rapid intermittence in the current leading to the tube ; and secondly , that the individual intermittent discharges should be small in quantity and extremely brief , if not instantaneous , in duration .
Both these requirements are fulfilled by the methods used in the present investigation^ viz. , a

