LXXXV .
Extract of a Letter from Camillo Paderni , Keeper of the Museum Herculaneum , to Tho. Holles , Esq ; dated at Naples , April 27 , 1754 .
ONE reason for not answering your letter earlier has been the embarassments , which I have had about the museum , especially in forming the place itself to a convenient shape for the things , which it is to contain .
Till this was done , the whole was unavoidably in great confusion .
I had the direction likewise of the people , who worked under-ground , and of the several artists otherwise employed .
Besides , I was desirous to send you the printed catalogue of the museum , which has long been ordered , yet cannot still be published these three or four months .
When it is out , I shall be at liberty to write more fully and freely than is at present permitted .
However , I can now send you an account of the discoveries made of late , that is , within these twelve months , in the pretended city of Herculaneum .
I say pretended , because it is my own opinion , that the place , where they have dug for some time past , and actually do now dig , is not Herculaneum , but a different place from it , tho ' almost contiguous to it ; as I could easily make appear , was I at liberty to write : But time will clear up this matter .
My duty made it necessary for me to descend into it almost daily ; and when my business was done , I always indulged my curiosity and genius in viewing and examining the several objects there .
The place where Read June 13 , where they are digging , at present , is under Il Bosco~ di Sant ' Agostino , but a little distant from the royal palace at Portici .
Its depth is 125 Neapolitan palms* , one of which is more than the mercantile canna of Rome .
All the buildings discovered in this site are noble : Many of the pavements are of mosaic , variously and finely made ; others are of differentcolour 'd marbles , disposed with a beautiful symmetry ; and most of them are already taken up .
In one of these buildings there has been found an entire library , composed of volumes of the Egyptian Papyrus , of which there have been taken out about 250 ; and the place is not yet cleared or emptied , it having been deemed necessary to erect props first , to keep the earth , which lies above it , from falling in upon it .
These volumes of Papyrus consist of Latin and Greek manuscripts ; but from their brittleness , occasioned by the fire and time , it is not possible to unrol them , they being now decayed , and rotten .
His majesty however has done his part ; having sent for a certain monk from Rome , who belonged to the Vatican library ; in hopes , by his means , to have unfolded them ; but hitherto in vain .
Your servant Paderni alone can show some fragments of several lines , and more than this , he is much afraid , will never be seen .
Of these there are many in my custody , which I suppose you will have the pleasure of observing , in the intended catalogue , There have been found of those small tables , which they covered with wax and the palimpseston , and then 4L2 wrote *A Neapolitan palm is said to be ~ inches English .
wrote on them with the stylus : but all these are become a kind of cinder ; and have likewise suffered by the damps ; from both which circumstances they are now so tender , that they break with the touch .
In the same place there have been met with three small busts ; one of Epicurus , another of Zeno , and the third of Humachus ; with the names of each inscribed upon the basis , in Greek letters .
A little distant from the preceding site has been discovered another noble building , with a square court belonging to it ; the inside of which , alone , has been hitherto examined .
This square is formed with fluted columns made of brick that was stucco 'd .
In the angles were four terms of marble , with busts upon them , in bronze , of the finest manner , having the name of the Greek workman upon one of them .
In the centre , betwixt the terms , there was a small fountain , formed by a vase shaped like a cockle-shell , and supported by a small fluted column .
There have been likewise found three other busts , large , and in bronze also , of the most excellent workmanship .
Within these few days the following things have been taken out of the same site ; to wit , a female statue , six palms high , perhaps a goddess , tho ' without any attribute , and but of middling workmanship ; two most beautiful candlesticks , six palms and an half high , exquisitely wrought in chased work ; other candlesticks , much damaged by the fire and time ; many fragments in bronze , which , not having any particular merit , it is needless to describe , except two small figures of fawns , that are finely executed .
In the same place was discovered a large fountain , lined throughout with lead ; round it were eleven heads of lionesses , out of which the water flowed .
Pipes of lead are very often met with ; and a day scarce passes , but something is brought to be deposited in my custody .
The above is all I can write , at present , concerning our late discoveries .
The museum goes on increasing greatly .
Now there are in it two curule chairs , which are uniques ; these were in a chamber by themselves , and had been somewhat injured .
One is simply of bronze , and the other of bronze , which had been gilt .
I can assure you , that when , in the course of a few months , every thing is properly ranged and placed in this museum , it will be one of the finest in Europe ; as well for the singularity , as beauty , of its objects .
Now , particularly , I wish you were here ; being thoroughly persuaded , that you would pass entire days with me in it , as several other of my friends have done , with the utmost satisfaction .
If my time had not been so entirely taken up in putting the museum into some general order , I could easily have given your learned friend , Dr. Ward , the desired information about the ancient weights and measures ; which particular things , however , are not yet distinctly methodiz 'd .
We have various measures , but without any marks upon them : By their form , they appear such , as are described by Montfaucon , and others .
We have , also , many weights of all sizes , with their several marks upon them , proper for scales ; and many steelyards , likewise , of all sizes , the links of which being broken , it will first be necessary to restore them , before any proofs can be made of them .
I already conceive a high esteem for Mr. Stuart and Mr. Rivet , from the honour , which they have acquired to themselves by their celebrated undertaking .
When they come hither , there , I shall endeavour to procure them subscribers to their work , and show them every civility in my

