Observations on the Hirudo complanata , and Hirudo stagnalis , now formed into a distinct Genus under the name , Glossopora .
By Dr. Johnson , of Bristol .
Communicated by Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read June 26 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 339 .
] The animals named in the title of this paper differ so considerably from the Leech , as to induce the author to remove them from the genus Hirudo , and to form them into a distinct one under the term Glossopora , a term derived from a prominent feature of the animal , namely , its projectile tubular tongue .
They resemble the leech , in the body being furnished with a series of rings , in locomotion being effected by the alternate motion of the head and tail , and in the division of one general stomach into several lateral cells or partitions .
They differ from the leech in the mouth being furnished with a projectile tubular tongue ; in the flat pyriform shape of the body ; and in having an abdominal pouch or cavity for the reception of their young .
After enumerating the character of the genus , Dr. Johnson expresses his opinion that the Hirudo circulans , Hirudo crenata , Hirudo hyalina , and Hirudo tessulata , will be found to belong to it ; and the Hirudo sexoculata , described by Bergmann in the Stockholm Transactions , seems to be the same animal .
Its tongue is cartilaginous , flexible , and about one eighth of an inch long .
The author describes the Glossopora tuberculata and the Glossopora punctata .
The notion that they are capable of reproduction when cut or divided , he considers without foundation .
Their food consists chiefly of water 1-elices ; into the shell of which they easily penetrate in consequence of their tapering head , and from the flexibility of the tongue they are enabled to follow their victim to the innermost recess of its habitation .
The ova are received into the abdominal pouch of the parent , where they remain till fully evolved , and they are unproductive if moved from this situation .
An annexed drawing illustrates the anatomy and .
habits of these animals .

