]\gt ; Messrs. A. .
Harcourt and W. Esson .
[ May 9 , May 9 , 1895 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Bakerian Lecture was delivered as follows:\mdash ; BAKERIAN LECTURE.\mdash ; " " On the Laws of Connexion between the Conditions of Chemical Change and its Amount By A. VERNON HARCOURT , M.A. , F.B.S. , Student of Christ Church , and Lee 's Reader in Chemistry , and IVILLIAI ESSON .
M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Merton College , and Deputy Savilian Professor of Geometry the University of Oxford .
' 1II .
Further Researches on the Reaction of Hydrogen Dioxide and Hydrogen Iodide Beceived March 15 , 1895 .
In this paper are considered the effect upon the reaction of ( 1 ) substances directly participating in it , ( 2 ) lemperature .
A short description is given of the manner in which the observations were made .
The equation which expresses the result of a single set of observations was shown in a previous paper to be where , and , the amounts of potential change at the times respectively .
Each set of observations gives a mean value of , which is taken to be the value of the rate of change under the conditions of the set .
The effect of the iation o conditions upou the value of is oonsidered to be a measure of effect upon the course of reaction .
riation of Hydrogen Sulphate .
It is from the results of three sets of experiments at temperatures of , and , that the increment in the value of the 1895 .
] Conditions of its Amounf .
109 rate of change per unit of sulphate per unit of iodide is constant wheu an unit volume contains quantities of sulp e from 45 This increment is again constant for the range to 762 , but has a higher vnlue .
For quantities of sulphate greater than 76 this increment , which again becomes constant , is further increased in value .
The explanation glven of this discontinuity in the successive values of the increnlent , is that the addition of the to Wftter gives to the radual formation of one hydrate at the expense of another , and the lncrement ullit of is the resultant of the increment per unit of each of the hydrates .
For the range 515 to the ate hicl ) is decreasing , is H- , SO4 , 106 H- , O , he lvhich is O. of the valucs of in a solution confaining in ( 1 ) from to ; ( 2 ) from 12.301 ; ( 3 ) from to Theoretically the rate is rate with vatel .
and iodide only , present in amounts per cubic centimctrc , HI .
increme1lts per unit of hydrogen sulphate are in three cases , and When the medinm consists of water , iodido , and gen sulphate , and the ratio of the nunlbers of and below 20 , the rate with unit of has a value different from ; but value of the unit of sulphate is the same tor the range of numbers of from 45 to 51.5 .
ariation of Chloride .
It is shown from the results of one set of experiments tenlof the incremert { he alue of the of per of chloride per unit otiod , dc is constant a cubic contains 14 , and quantiti of to 280 , the of the increment being .
An of four sets of observations ma in the course of experiments *As in our ve to represcnt a ogen , other syntbols icizeJ f ) ) ions of other cments .
Thus is 98 a gram of Messrs. A. .
Harcourt and W. Esson .
[ May 9 , upon temperature , and of the experiments recorded in a previous paper , made to determine the law of variation of the rate of change with iodide , shows that when the ratio of the numbers of and is higher than it is in the set quoted above , the value of the increment per unit of chloride per unit of iodide falls to .
This lower value is the same for values of the number of , ranging from 190 to 547 , and for values of the ratio of the numbers of and ranging from 20 to 210 .
The formulae for in these two cases in a solution containing in 1 and HCl are at a temperature of ( 1 .
) ( 2 .
) Variation of Iodide .
It was shown in a previous paper that when quantities of iodide are introduced the medium sufficiently small in amount , in comparison with other snbstances not parhcipating directly in reaction , the rate of chemical change varied directly with the amount of iodide .
It was coniectured that when the amount of iodide is large enough to modify considerably the character of the medium , it would have the same kind of effect upon the reaction as hydrogen sulphate and hydrogen chloride .
It is now shown that the increment of the rate per unit of hydrogen iodide unit of iodide is at a temperature of , the rate with 1 at the same temperature being .
The formula for the rate with is It will be observed that the actual rate with unit of hydrogen iodide in a medium consisting of water and hydrogen iodide is approximately the same as the theorelical rate unit of iodide in a medillm consisting of water , hydrogen iodidtl , and either hydrogen sulphate or hydrogen chloride when the atio of the numbers of and and of the numbers of and exceeds 20 .
It has been shown above that this rate is ariation of Sodium Bydrogen Carbonate .
In a medium consisting mainly of water and sodium hydrogen bonate the increment of the rate per unit of NaHCO3 per unit of iodide is at a temperature of , the formula for the rate with and quantities of the carbonate ranging to , being at this temperature 1895 .
] ns of and its A monmt .
The wibh 1 and is so that the theoretical rate with 1 only , in this medium , is 1 at a temperature of .
At the same temperature the actual in a medium consisting of water and hydrogen iodide more than twice as great the rate with the iodide .
The increment of the rate per unit of onate per unit of iodide is more four times the increment per unit of sulphate per unit of iodide at the temperaturc of Potas Iodide , and So ) of Water and Sodinm lrbonate .
this of , the increments of the : per unit of these substances per unit of iodide are ( 1 ) for the to ; for the to .
the to 14 In medium sodium chloride a considerable effect on the rate , but a medium consisting of vater and hydrogen chloride its effect most nil .
as to the effcct of the iJIedium upon Each tituent of the medium produces an effect on the rate change of unit peroxide and unit iodide , to the and varying with the of the constituent .
The increment of this rate per unit mass of each constituent is constant so long as the of the predominant constituent present in the medium sufficicntJy large , in comp rison with the other constituents of the medium , to render the media in successive iments p homogeneous .
For example , when the ratio of the numbers of and in medium exceeds 20 the formula for the rate at temperature is being the theoretical rate with unit of increment per ullit of hydrogen iodide per unit of iodide , and the increment per of ogen sulphate per unit of iodide .
If the ratio falls the formula is in which and depend upon the relative masses of sulphate and iodide present in the medium .
VOL. LVIII .
112 Condititions of C'hemical Change and its Amount .
[ May 9 , of Temperature .
The discussion of the numerous experiments made at temperatures ranging from to , in media in which the quantities of iodide range from , to 23 , the quantities of hydrogen sulphate from 45 ' to 468 , and the quantities of hydrogen chloride from to 547 , leads to the following law of connexion beliween chemical and temperature .
If is the rate of chemical change at a temperature in a homogeneous medium consisting of given constituelits per unit volume , and is the rate at a temperature in the same medium , the ratio of to is being a constant depending upon the character of the constituents of the medium .
When the temperaturcs are measured from the absolute zero , and are denoted by , the formula assumes the simpler form , The constancy the value of for a particular medium is secu-ved ' when the quantity of the predominant constituent of the medium is sufficiently large in comparison with the quantities of the other constituents to make the medium practically eneous .
When this is not the case has some value intermediate to the values which it has when one or other of the constituents is sufficieI ) predominant to secure a value .
In media in which hydrogen sulphate is suificienbly predominant , the valus of is simiIarly for hydrogen chloride the value of is .
When the medium consists of water and hydrogen iodide , the value of is .
The introduc of sodium sulphate in large quantity into a medium consisting mainly of hydrogen sulphate reduces the value of ?
from to .
In a medium in which the main ingredient is sodium hydrogen carbonate , the value of is approximately 10 .
A further mation of the law of connexion between chemical change and temperature is obtained from the discussion of ments on the rate of change of hydrogen chlorate and potassium iodide made by W. H. Pendlebury and M. Seward .
The value of is in the case of this emical change : It follows from the law enunciated above that at the of absolute zero no chemical change can take place .
If the smallest value of , 10 , is taken , a chemical which is completed in one minute at a temperature zero , would require for its completion at a temperabure of a little more than a year .
If 20 is taken as the value of , the minute would be increased to more than half a mmion of years by the same reduction of temperature .
1895 .
] On the obtained from Uraninite .
113 The law enunciated above may also be stated in the folloving The increment of each unit of chemical due to a rise of temperature val.ies a , s the increment of each unit of absolute tempeThis law is expressed by the formula Chemical Eqnilibriu A cftse of equilibrium between the reactions leads to a discussion of the general equations of chemica ] equilibrium given in an appendix to the paper .
rhese equations are employed to interpret the results of experiments published by Dr. in tho Transactions of the Royal Society ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. rfhey had been iously applied to the case of chemical ( investigated by Professor Dixon in a ) paper published vol. of the Transactions of the Royal Society , the reactions in that case being The .
Papers were also read : \mdash ; .
" " On the from Uraninite .
Secolld Note By J. NoRlIAN LOCKYER , C.B. , F.R.S. Beceived lfay 8 , 1895 .
Since my communication on the gas obtained from uraninite was sent into the Society , on the 25th uItimo , I have been the method I there referred to in several ections , mong them to determine whether the spectrum of the gas indicates a himple or a complex origin .
I as led to make this special inquiry on account of the difference the frequency of the appearance of and the other lines to which I referred in the previous communication in solar chl'omosphere .
For instance , if we take the lines , 4471 , and 4302 , the frequencies are as follows , according tu :\mdash ; * Sce ' Solar Physics , ' Lockyer , p. 612 .

