]\gt ; lS78 .
] Prof. Sylvester on Binary Qnantics .
measures taken at lIoncalieri , by P. Dcnza , will most probably appear in the publications of that Obsel.vatory .
In conclusi I will subjoin in a table the mean results for all the elements of terrestrial magnetism at the different stations .
TABLE VIII .
II .
On to the and Degree of the damental Invariants of Quantics By J. J. EsTER , II .
A. , LL.13 .
, ssor in the sity , , U.S. ceive d , 1877 .
The deyelopments which I have recently given to Professor Cayley 's second method of dealing with inyariants ( the first method that which has been cxclusiyely used by Gordan ) , has led me the theory of the Canonical raction to the ; results , showing that the degree and order of the mental invariants alud covariauts to a quantic ) stclll of utics bject to algcbraical limits of a very simple kind , and I think it these results should not be wlthheldfi.om the knowlege of thusc are pursuing another and , as it seems to me , Much more nrduous and less promising direction of inquiry into the sa1ne subject .
By order I mcall dimensions of a derived in the coefficients of its ( Clebsch and Gordau 's ) , and by degree the dimensions the variables ( Clebsch and Gordan 's dmmg ) .
First as to If there be systcm of ? .
odd reed quantics \amp ; c. , even ones , ( with the exception 01 the case when the system reduces to a single linear function 0 a single quadratic ) the ol Sylvestcr on Quantics .
[ Jan. 10 .
any irreducible covariant to the system has for a superior limit Thus , ex. , where there is but one quantic , the limit is or ' according as the degree is odd or evcn .
Secondly , as to order .
As the expressions become somewhat compIicated when there are several quantics , I shall confine myself to a statement applicable to single quantic , distinguishing between the three cases when ( its degree ) is evenly , eyen , oddly eyen , and odd . .
When , the superior limits for the order of the invariants and covariants respectively are for the former ) and for the latter .
When is even , but not divisible by , and is greater than 2 , the limits for the two specics are and respectively . .
When is any odd number greater ) , the order of the invariants has for its limit and wh c ) , and when it is any odd number greater than unity , the order of the arinuts has its limit .
Further fttions will , I have good ) ] ieve lead to considerably ] limits than those given for cas ea , .
morally the three mulae cannot ) cred at present apodiclically established , the fornlula nhe limit to lcqree may , I believe , be regarded as admittin ] eseclnfao let demonstration .
There exists , wevcr , a } ) erior ] orders of the fundamental ts or , ) the regarded as subject to direct tion eycn in our present state a be of knowledge ; this when ?
eyen is for covarian ts ; and when ?
is corresponding invariants , are for , and ) lave no moral doubt whatever of the validity of the formulae for covariant ttnd as they stand , and next to none of validity of formula

