" On the Physical Constitution of the Sun and Stars"* .
By G. JOENSTONE STONY , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.R.A.S. , Secretary to the Queen 's University in Ireland .
Received May 15 , 1867 .
PART I. Of the Sun .
Sect. page Sect. page 6 .
Of the Distribution and Periodicity I. Iiitroductory ... ... ... ... I of the Spots ... ... . .
, .
, .
, .
42 2 .
Collateral Inquiries ... ... ... ... ... 11 3 .
Of the OuterAtmosphere of the Sun 17 PART II .
Of other Stars .
4 .
Of the Photosphere and the Subjacent Parts ... ... .
34 1 .
Of Solitary Stars ... ... ... ... ... ... .47 5 .
Of Clouds in the Outer Atmosphere 39 2 .
Of Multiple Systems.51 PART I.-OF , THE1 SUN .
Section I.-Introductory .
1 .
THE true surface of the suin is the outer boundary of his enormous atmosphere ; but the principal escape of heat takes place from a concentric layer at a vast depth beneath the surface .
Withinl this luminious film there is a dark body , glimpses of which are occasionally seen as the unmbrie of spots .
2 .
The part of the atmosphere above the photosphere , which may be conveniently called the Outer Atmosphere , is emineintly transparent to most of the rays which emanate from the shell of clouds , or from beneath them .
But this is not the case in reference to others .
The atmosphere absorbs rays of those refrangibilities which correspond to the dark rays visible in the solar spectrum , and multitudes of others of a like kinid beyond the limits of the visible spectrum .
The depth of the atmosphere is so enormous that we must conclude it to be many times more than sufficient to act as an opake screen in reference to the great majority *t Read Jtune 20 , 1867 : see Abstract , vol. xvi .
p. 25 .
A part of the second section of the MS .
sent to the Royal Society has been pLLblished in the Phil. Mag. for Aug. 1868 ; and the suLbstance of an Appendix suggesting observations to be made on the occasion of the Solar Eclipse of Aug. 1868 , which also forms part of the MS .
, was published in the 'vMonthlly Notices ' of the Astronomical Society for Dec. 1867 , and reprinted in the Pllil .
Al:ag .
, vol. xxxiv .
1 ) .
502 ( 1867 ) , The rest of the paper is printedl here .
of such rays .
That there are darh lines in the solar spectrum reveals to us the fact that the suirface of the atmosphere is cooler than the luminous region beneath .
But we may go further than this .
Most gases are colourless ; in other words , they do not scatter rays incident on them .
Neither do they reflect light from their surface .
It follows , then , from the laws which regulate the exchange of heat , that where such a gas is of sufficient thickness to be opake in reference to any particular ray , it will send forth the most intense ray of that particular refrangibility which it is possible for a body of the temperature of the gas to emit .
Hence that there are lines in the solar spectrum of very different intensities is an evidence to us that the surfaces of the atmospheres from which they have their source are at different tenperatures .
It thus appears , upon a rough view , that the upper layers of the atmospheres of sodium , magnesium , and hydrogen are cooler than those of iron and calcium , and that these again are cooler than the upper layers of the atmospheres of nlickel , cobalt , copper , and zinlc .
In this , them , we have evidence both that the atmospheres of the several gases extend to different heights , and that the temperature increases from the surface of the solar atmosphere downwards .
Again , such facts as that some of the iron lines are less dark than others in their neighbourhood , that some of the copper lines are not noticeable , prove that even before deseending suficiently far to have passed through a stratum of these gases thick enough to be opake to these rays , we have already arrived at a sensibly higher temperature .
This temperature , in the case of some of the lines of cobalt , copper , and zinc , appears to approacb , if it does not pass beyond , the temperature of the luminous clouds .
3 .
Let us now direct our attention to the darker nucleus which lies within the photosphere .
It is known that a body , when surrounded on all sides by an opaque enlvelope of others at its own temperature , will reflect some of the incident light , if its surface be in any degree polished , and if the body be not wholly transparent or wholly black .
It will scatter others of the incident rays if .
either its surface or its substance be suLch as would not be wholly invisible if exposed to light brighter than that corresponding to its temperature .
And , lastly , it will emit rays in virtue of its own temperature of such kinds and in such quantities that , aloaig with those transmitted , reflected , and scattered , they will make up a total which is definite for each temperature .
This is one of the established laws of the exchange of heat .
It follows from this that a body thick enough to be opaque which emits much more feebly than others at a given temperature must reflect incident rays better , or scatter them-a more copiously .
It caiiot in an eminent degree do both .
Unless the dark body of the sun is cooler than the photosphere it is therefore , at least in those places which are exposed to us as spots , either such that it scatters incident light abundanitly , or it has a highly reflecting surface .
4 Before pursuinrg further our inquiry into the iature , of the central body of the sun , it will be convenient to enter upon the discuission of the phenomena of the luminous clouds ; and it wlli avoid confusion in this part of our investigation to adopt provisionially the definite hypothesis that the central body of the sun is all opake ocean with a highly reflecting surfacesuch a surface as an uiitarnished white molteni alloy would present .
We shall run no risk of error in doing this if we afterwards carefully reexamine such parts of our inquiry inlto the pllenoimena of the clouds as would be affected by substituting for this hypothesis any other that is admissible .
5 .
[ We shall also assume that the photosphere is not itself the origin of the heat which it disperses abroad , but draaws it from the adjoining regions .
No doubt if chemical action coul(d be the source of ' solar heat , the photosPhere might be its seat , and resemble the luminous part of a candleflame .
In this case the opaque regionis withini might be cooler than the photosphere , provided the photosphere were so translucent as to allow a sufficient radiationi throughi it from the parts within to the open sky .
But the photosphere to be thus translucent shiould of necessity be at a far higher temiperature than an equally bright body with a perfectly radiating surface .
And almost to this intense heat it would raise a great extent of the outer atmosplhere , which , being eminiently transparent , is but imperfectly fitted to moderate the heat it receives from contact with the photosphere .
Helnce we slhould expect to see conspicuous bright lines in the solar spectrum , which , however , we do not find .
Moreover , the amount of the sun 's radiation appears to be decisive against our attributing it to chnemical action.-September 1868 .
] 6 .
Let us consider what would happen if the pbotosphere were away , and nothing but an atmosphere of fixed gases in contact with an intensely heated molten splhere .
To simplify our conceptions , let us coniceive the molten mass to have a core which is maintained at a constant temperature , to have a surface reflecting perf'ectly , and to be enveloped by an extensive atmosphere of one fixed gas , wlvich , for fnrther simplicity , we shall suppose gives a spectruim of irnvariable lines .
The atmosphere is supposed to le extensive enough to render the change of temperature throughout it so gradual that there are nlo currents of convection .
The under surface of this atmosplhere would be raised by direct conitact to the same temperature as the polished surface of the dark body within .
The temperature would very slowly decrease in passing outwards from the core , first through the molten ocean , and then throughll the atmosphere , until that upper layer of the atmosphere was reached which alone can emit heat into space .
Through the thickness of this outer stratum the temperature would rapidly fall , the whole escape of heat fro-m the system taking place excltusively from it , in the form of undulations of the ether of those particular wave-lengths which the gas constituting the atmosphere cani excite .
Such is a picture of what would ultimately become the permanent state of such a system as we have imagined .
7 .
Let us niow suppose the surface of the ocean to lose part of its refleeting-power , and to become such an imperfect mirror as is possible with the bodies we lknow to exist .
The surface of the ocean will at once begin 13 moderately to radiate heat , most of which will escape into space .
It will thus become a surface of minimum temperature , cooler than the depths of the ocean within , and also for a time than the adjoining parts of the atmosphere without-just as the surface of the grounid becomes a surface of minimum temperatuire while dew is falling .
This surface of minimum temperature will draw heat from the warmer bodies on both sides of it , and will thus tend to cool both the atmosphere above and the ocean beneath .
8 .
Let us next conceive a particle with a highly emitting surface , and of the same temperature as the surrouniding medium , situated in the atmosphere a short distance above the ocean .
Such a body , owing to its lavish radiation , would quiickly fall in temperature far below the bodies around it .
If , however , these latter can supply it with heat so fast as to prevent its reduced temperature sinking below the temperature of brilliant incandescence , it will continue a imagnificent spectacle amid the comparative darkness around .
Let us now suppose that we have in the neighbourhood of this particle a vapour such that it is gaseous at the ardent temperature of the surrounding medium , but that it is precipitated either as a smoke or mist by the coolness of the radiating particle ; it will , the instant it is so precipitated , begin itself to radiate copiouslv , and so will tend to maintain the reduced temperature which is the condition of its continuing to blaze forth .
The process is the in-verse of what takes place in setting a flame alight , and is strictly analogous to it * .
If the vapour be of great depth , the upper parts , whenl precipitated in luminous cloud , will protect the rest of the vapour from that free radiation towards the sky which is the necessary condition of the phenomenon .
If the blaze had been first communicated to a part below the outer layer , it would at first form a cloud in that situation- the radiation from the upper side of this cloud would be least obstructed the blaze would therefore tend to spread outwards , and would no doubt do so much more swiftly than the cloud could subside .
The blaze would therefore soon fly to the upper-l[ surface of the vapour , where alone it could establish itself permanilenitly .
Such , them , appear to be the luminous clouds .
9 .
Since the great escape of heat takes place from the photosphere , it must be cooler than the contiguous parts of the regions within or of the atmosphere withouit .
And the lowest temperature to which either of these could possibly fall is evideintly the reduced temIperature of the clouds , a mi* It seems not improbable that as there are substances which will take fire spontaneously and , when tley have done so , will maintain a temperature of ignlition-a far higher temperature than they had before-so perhaps there may be vapours in the solar atmosplhere capable of spontaneously forming a molecule of liquid or of solid at their own high temperature , which would have but a momentary existence were it not that its instantly beginning to radiate both renders its new state fixed and sets the whole aieighbourhood ablaze .
t It will be shown further on , that a IrcGce of the vapour which forms the clouds may , and probably does , extend far beyonld them .
But the cloulds are at the boundary of the region in which there are !
Iruqe quantities of the vapouir .
nimum which would only be possible under the condition that the lumtninous stratum was anl absolute screen stopping every ray of heat coming from beyond it , and also reducing the entire of the intermingled atmosphere of fixed gases quite to its own low temperature .
The former of these conditions , especially , seems improbable when we bear in mind that the film in which cloud can form must be so transparent as to admit of the abundant radiation towards the sky which we have found to be essential .
We shall be able to treat this subject further on with more precision ; but , in the meantime , we are clearly entitled provisionally to regard the film of clouds as colder than the regions on either side of it .
10 .
Let us now consider more attentively the thermal conditions of the photosphere and of the subjacentregions .
In doing this it isnecessary to distinguish that part of the condensed vapour from which there is so abundant a radiation outwards as would enable vapour in that region to pass inito cloud , from such other parts of the conidensed vapours as are too much screened from the sky to allow any more cloud to form .
It will accordingly be convenient henceforth to restrict the word cloud to the former , and to use such words as mist or rain when we have occasion to speak of condensed vapour in a lower situation .
Now , in the first place , if from any cause a part of the vapour fitted to produce luminous clouds rose above the general level and became detached , it wouldform a cloud , which by its own weight , and by the coolness it would impart to the fixed gases interspersed through it , would gradually settle down till it became merged in the general luminous stratum .
This behaviour would be hastened by a suidden change of the density of the solar atmosphere , which , as we shall find hereafter , takes place at the boundary of the photosphere .
11 .
The clouds , thougn of a thickness small when compared with the enormous extent of the atmosphere of the sun , may nevertheless be of considerable depth ; but they can in no place be of such a density and thickness as to be opaque , since ino part of the stratum can come into existence from which there is not a sufficiently free radiation towards parts already cooled down or towards the open sky .
This , then , will put a limit to the density of the clouds .
If , from any cause , heat is supplied unequally to different parts of the stratum , the delnsity of the clouds must be correspondingly unequal , inasmuch as , in the more heated regions , even the lowest part of the stratum , which is the worst-situated , must be sufficiently exposed to the sky to enable it , under these adverse circumstances , to maintain the low temperature which is essential to the formation of cloud .
The clouds will accordingly be rarest where most heated .
As , then , the clouds are translucent in all parts , and in some parts more so than in others , it becomes of importance to study the intensity of the heat and light which reach us from beyond them .
12 .
The clouds must either brood like a fog over the surface of the subjacent ocean , or they are separated from it by an interval .
I will deal with the latter hypothesis first .
Assuming , then , that there is such an interval , we may suppose that the part of the atmosphere which occupies it is either nearly saturated with the vapour from which clouds are formed , or but sparingly supplied with it .
If it be very moist , the clouds as thsey descend , either through convection or by subsidence , will pass into th form of mnist , which will collect into a rain that will fall towards the oceal beneath .
If , on the other hand , the interval between the clouds and ocean be far from being charged with vapou , the cloud as it descends will dissolve away among the hot and dry gases below , while the ascending currents , as they rise into the situation from which they can freely radiate , restore the same quantity of a thin gauLze-like cloud .
The possible alternatives , then , are , 1st , that the interval between the clouds and ocean is transparent , or , 2nd , that it is rendered in a considerable degree opake by mist and rain , or , 3rd , that the clouds reach to the ocean .
13 .
Let us examine these hypotheses , beginning with that of a clear atmosphere under the clouds .
If there be such a transparent space , it is easy to see that the intensity of the rays which strike the under surface of the clouds is greater than that part of the solar radiation which emanates directly from the clouds ; for a portion of the rays which flow downwards directly from the clouds will be reflected by the body of the suni beneath ; another portioni will be scattered at the same surface .
These two portions will fall short of the ciitire quanitity of rays in the first instance radiated downwards from the donLds .
But as the body of the sun is hotter than the clouds , what is here wanting will , according to a known law regarding the exchange of heat , be more than made up by w hat the body of the su'n will itself emit* .
Thus we have already a quantity of heat radiated upwards against the clouds greater than that emritted by them downwards .
But fLrther , the clouds must scatter a part of the rays that strike their under surface .
Some of the rays so scattered will be afterwards reflected or scattered by the body of the sun , and will augment still further the heat striking the under surface of the clouds over that which they radiated downwards .
This excess will be great if the clouds be of a material that scatters light copiously ; for in this case we shall not only have a laroe supply of rays that had beeni so scattered added to the stock , but also , if the clouds scatter incidentrays abundanttly , they will , in obedience to the laws of the exchanige of heat , be at the same time such as will emit more feebly ; and accordingly the brightness which shines upon them from the background will be relatively more coiispin cions .
But , however this may be , whether the excess be more or less , it at all events exists , if the space under the clouds be clear ; and the clouds are in the position of a luminous and partially transparent body , with a still brighter body beyond .
If the average condition of the nearer body , the screen of clouds , be such that it is in a considerable degree opaque , then will a small spot in it which is thinner and co isequently more transparent than the neighbouring parts appear brighter than they ; whereas , if the average conditioni of the nearer body allow rays to pass pretty freely through it , then will a thin spot appear but little brighter than the parts around , and the circumstances might even be such as to render it darker than them .
We find both these appearances on the sun 's disk .
In the middle of the sun 's disk we find it to be most luminous ; and here the clouds would intercept least of the greater brightness beyond .
In the marginal parts of the disk the spectator looks obliquely through the stratum of clouds , which is therefore more opaque to his view , so that , in approaching the edge of the disk , the less initense light emitted by the clouds would be progressively less and less fortified by the splendour within .
The brightness of the disk would be accordingly shaded off towards the edge .
At the same time thininer parts of the filrrm , if not too extensive , would be seen conspicuously as faculee near the edge of the disk , while towards the centre their brightness would be merged in the genieral illuminiation around .
14 .
But , further , as the shell of clouds is at a much lower temperature than the adjoining layer of the atmosphere beneath it , while it is subjected to but little less pressure , it is evident that there must be a violent motion of convection between the two , the chilled portions descending , while the hot vapours from below boil upwards .
Cloud will form in the rising vapours , but it will be less dense than that of the parts more effectually cooled .
The appearance will be very much like what we see when looking from above upon water in the act of boiling , , the smooth tops of the columns of ascending water being represented on the sun by the brighter patches due to the thinness of that cloud which cani mainitaini its existence in the hotter vapouirs , while the turmoil which is seem in the water between these columns corresponds to the darker interstitial spaces which give to the sun 's surface a minutely granulated appearance ( rice-grains , willow-leaves , &amp;c. ) , and in which the cloud at times becomes so opaque that those flakes which by prolonged emission become the most dusky seem to show like black or , at least , very dark pores .
This honeycormbed structure of the stratum of clouds will umodify the erect of obliquity in .
rendering the marginal parts of the sun 's disk less bright than the centre .
It will cause the effect to be perceived further from the border than it otherwise would be .
15 .
So far , then , the hypothesis of a clear space between the clouds and the ocearL seem , s to square with the phenomena ; but upon a further scrutiay we are forced to resign it as untenable .
For , as has been explained , the light which has suoered but one reflection , or been but once scattered , by the body of the sun , falls short of that which emaanates directly from the clouds , and the greater brightness of the background is due to the additions made ( 1 ) by the rays emiitted by the oceaii in virtue of its higher temperature , and ( 2 ) by the light which has suffered more than one reflection or been more than once scattered at the surface of the ocean .
Now the umbrae of spots exhibit to us the bocly of the sull so dark when compared with the lumninous clouds , that the great brightness of the faculke cannot be due to the light emSitted by the ocean .
It must therefore be due to the seconid cause , which , as we know , can only produce any considerable effect if the clouds are of such a nature that they scatter light abundantly .
But , again , we kinow from the proximity in which the umbrae of spots have been seem to the edge of the disk , that the interval between the clouds and the ocean is trifling as compared with the superficial dimensions of many faculve .
1I-ence , if the illumination of the background be due to the second cause , to light reflected or scattered from the body of the suin , the parts under extensive thin portions of the clouds would be sensibly less illuminated , and would give rise to an appearance more like that of penumbrme than of faculue .
The hypothesis would therefore fail to account for large faculhe .
Its rejection is also demanded by the appearance of the spectrum .
For if the clouds had the property of scattering light in the degree which would account for the granulated aspect of the photosphere , they would in the same proportion emit light feebly ; and the whole light reaching us , whether from or through them , would fall very perceptibly short of the maximum corresponding to their temperature .
Alnd as , on the other hand , a gas is a perfect emitter of the rays of which its spectrum consists , there could not fail to be coIlspicuous bright lines from those gases which extend only to the hotter strata of the solar atmosphere .
Now it is certain that no such lines are conwpicuous .
16 .
The same objections lie with still more force against the hypothesis that the clouds are in contact with a polished oceani .
We may therefore summarily dismiss this hypothesis .
17 .
Let us then tuirn to the alternative of an interval with mist and rain .
The mist beneath the clouds , as it is found in a hotter region , would emit more light , though the mist were no iuore dense than the cloud .
But the mist is probably much more dense ; and it is nlatural to suppose that it is dense enough to be opake , in which case , if it be formed of a material which is a good radiator , it will emit light of almost the maximum intensity which can be emitted by a body of its temperature .
Indeed this effect would be produced if the mist and r'ain were in a quantity much less than that which would be opake , in consequence of the assistance renldered by the body of the sun beneath , and that without any hypothesis as to the state of the latter , except only that it is opake and at as high a temlperature as the mist .
Now as it is likely that the average quantity of mist and rain is much more than this , its density may undergo very considerable fluctuations without its ceasing to pour forth its full torrenit of light and heat .
Such , then , appears to be the brighter background which shines through the clouds .
As in the last case , the currents of convection which prevail generally over the suin produce the gradation of light fading towarcls the edge of the disk , and the finely granulated structure of his surface , with its little bright patches , its dusky intervals , and its dark pores .
Where circumstanrces render the cloud thinner over any considerable extent while the raini continues , we hae a facula which is visible ( if it be not lost in the equal brightness of all around ) when it is near the centre of the diskc .
Where such thin parts occur in numerous small patches , they produce that ordinary mottled appearance of the sun 's surface which is visible in telescopes of moderate power .
If the rain stop , we have penumbra .
If the cloud also vanish , we have the umbra of a spot .
18 .
We have thus arrived at an hypothesis which in a veiry satisfactory manner agrees with several of the phenomena .
Before , however , we trust ourselves to this or any other particular hypothesis , we must retrace our steps and go over the whole ground with care , retaining at each step all the alternatives which up to that point are possible , and reducing the number by eliminating from the list every hypothesis which we find to be inconsistent with any known fact .
19 .
Now , in the first place , the gradation of brightness from the margin to the centre of the sun 's disk has usually been attributed to the action of an absorbing atmosphere telling with most effect upon the edges of the disk .
3But of course factula canlnot be referred to any action of our earth ; and it is incredible , therefore , that they exist only near the edge of the disk .
Heince the cause of the gradation of light , whatever it is , must be such as will leave the facuhe of uiiumpaired lustre as they move from the centre to the edge of the disk , while it renders other parts more dusky .
We may therefore discard the hypothesis that an absorbing atmosphere is the cause , since it would not act in this way .
It is therefore due in some way to the nature of the photosphere itself .
The telescope informs us that the photosphere coinsists of two parts which may be distinguished:-a brighter part , seen in the centre of the disk , in the faculee , in smaller bright patches , and in its purest form in the brighter specks of those parts of the surface which are granulated ; and a dusky part , seen towards the margin of the disk and in the interstices between the bright specks of the granulation .
Now , inicandeseeiit bodies radiate equally in all directions , and therefore , if the light of the sun enmanated from a muere mathematical surface , the disk would not be brightest at the centre .
Hence the photosphere is a stratum , not a surface .
A gain , the brighter parts cannot be at the top of this stratum , since in that case the margin of the sun 's disk would be the brightest .
Hence the bright and dusky parts are either iintermingled , or the dusky parts form the outer layer ; and if they are intermiingled , the brighter parts must be the more transparent , to render this hypothesis consistent with the gradation of light we find on the disk .
Again , the observationis show the whole granulated surface of the sun to be in a state of incessant chainge , although not by any means so inmpetuous as the earlier observers supposed ; hence at least the outer layer of the photosphere is mobile .
It is accordingly either a gas , a liquid , or a cloud .
The nature of its spectruti forbids otur admitting it to be a layer of gas * of moderate depth ; and if the layer of gas were so profounid as to be opake , it would radiate the maximum amount of light belonging to its temperatire at great depths , and so obliterate the mottled appearance which exists .
Again , an opaque liquid would be luminouss only at its surface , which we have found to be inadmissible .
Nor is an ocean of transparent liquid sufficienit .
Little light gets through 20 nietres of sea-water , and probably a few hundred metres of the most trai sparenit liquid would be practically opaque .
This trifling depth therefore vould render the incaildeseniit ocean luminous to almost the full extenit which is possible for a body of its temperature .
Such an ocean , th-refore , if tranquil at the surface , would reduce the whole sun 's disk to an uninterrupted gradation f of brightness .
If , .
to account for the granulationi , we suippose the oceani to be every here and there fretted with storms , the foam , being endowed with the property of scattering light abundantly , would no douibt be a bad emitter , and would therefore form dusky spots ; but these spots would be most conspicuous at the centre of the disk .
We must therefore reject the hypothesis of a transparenit ocean .
The hypothesis of a cloud , then , is the only one which remains .
20 .
Of clouds , there are two well-marked varieties-clouLds precipitated from a state of vapour , like the clouds in our atmosphere , and clouds of fixed solids or fixed liquids , such as smoke , a cloud of dust , the mad ill turbid water , oil in an emnulsion .
The sun attracts with so much more force than the earth that everything on his surface presses down with a force twenty-eight times as great a ; s that with which it would press downwards on the earth 's surface .
From this , and fro the amazing extent of his outer atmosphiere , it is 'natural to suppose that the pressure in its lower strata must be enormous .
This must occasion the lower strata to be very dense , unless the effect of the pressure be couLnteracted by the terrific heat .
OnX the other hand , the average density of the whole suni being only about one-fourth of that of the earth , the solids and liquids on his surt'aCe are probably much less dense than withi us .
If it should happen that the lower strata of the atmosphere were imAore denise than some e of the solid or liquid substances on the sun , these latter would rise ulntil they reached that part of the atmosphere which is of the same denisity as theimselves , and woulid float there ; and if in a state like dust , they would doibtless be maintained in violent agitation by currenits of convection , those on the outside being most cooled by radiation and siniking , to be replaced by others from the hot regions beneath .
The dust in the ascending currents would be the warmest , and therefore the brightest , and if the currents of convectionl were on a sufficiently extensive scale , we might expect as a result such a granulated appearance as the sun presents .
But it would be one which would be inlcomyipatible with the gradation of brightness which extends from the centre to the margin of the sun 's disk .
The stratum in which these convection-currents exist could affect the light coming from beyond merely as a partial screen , sinice there would be no marked* difference in point of transparency betweeni the ascending and the descending currents , so that the peculiar action which the honey-combed structure of the stratum would otherwise produce is not developed .
There would accordingly be scarcely any diminution of brightness till quite close to the edge of the disk ; and there it should fall off very rapidly .
As these are not at all the appearances which present themselves , we must give up the hypothesis of a clotud of fixed solid or liquid matter .
The hypothesis of clouds precipitated from vapour is therefore the only one not excluded ; and we have found that it appears consistent with all the phenomena that have been yet discussed .
Section II.-Collateral Inquiries .
21 .
The only class of bodies about the mnolecular constitution of which we have any satisfactory t information is gases .
These appear to consist [ The increase of tra'nsparency of the heat ; ed portions would be due to the separaion of the particles of dust caused by the expansion of the intermingled air .
Now at these high temperatures an addition to the temperature produces anl immense alteration in the quantity of heat and light radiated ( see ? ?
68 ) .
Hence the elevation of temperature cannot be great ; and accordingly the volume of the air , whichlvaries as the temperature measured from the absolute zero , is but little increased .
Such a change would determine great cuLrrents of convection , but would not materially separate interspersed particles of dust.-September 1868 .
] 1 The dynamical theory of the molecular constitution of gases , which , if I mistake not , may be ranked in point both of importance and probability along with the wave theory of light , does not appear to have yet miet with that general attention and acceptance which it seems to deserve .
It may , not be out of place , therefore , to add to the nliTnberless proofs which have been drawn from its interpreting the phenomnena of gases , by many writers , butt especially by Clauisius , the following negative proof , which demonstrates that no statical theory , whether on the hypothesis of a continuous substance or of distinct particles , is possible .
A gas is sLLsceptible of enormous dilatation and compression without any abrupt change in the laws upon which its pressure depends ; hence , if it consist of particles at rest , the force which acts in any directioni on any one , must be the result of forces emanating from many others , no one contributing more than a share which may be regarded as infinitesimal .
Hence it is easy to see that if the density be changed , the pressure will vary as the square of the density ; for the force in any direction on any one particle will increase as the ntumber of the particles on that or the opposite side ( according as the elementary forces are attractive or repulsive ) near enough to act on it , i. e. will increase as the density ; and the number of particles subjected to this augmented force which are found within each element of volumiie will also have increased in the same proportion .
Hence the pressure per square mnillimetre across any surface within the gas will increase as thf square of the density : and as this is a law which does not exist in of molecules moving about actively and irregularly in all directions , the path of any one being for the most part rectilinear , or , in other words , most of its motion being executed at a sufficient distance from the neighbouring molecules to be beyonid the reach of sensible inifluence from them .
Every now and then , however , each molecule comes sufficiently near some other molecule to have its course bent , on which occasions it darts off in a new direction .
Moreover miiany facts in physics and chemistry lead irresistibly to the conclusion that the molecules are resolvable into simpler elements ; and the probability distinctly is that each in most gases is a highly complex system .
When a body so constituted is enclosed , the molecules by flinging themselves againist the walls of the containing vessel produce the pressure of the gas .
If the enclosure be at the same temperature as the gas , they do so without gain or loss of vis viva .
But Iif the wall be at a higher temperature , the activity of those molecules which strike it is increased , and vice versed .
The altered activity is shared with the rest of the gas by conduction and convection-or mtiore slowly by coniduction only , if the circumstances do not admit of convection ; and so the temnpe ratuLre of the whole becomes changed .
22 .
When we compare different gases , we find that their molecules differ both in mass and in the motions that prevail within * them .
That the internal motions differ is abundantly testified by the amazing variety in the grouping of the spectral linzes to which the various gases give rise t. Again , the number of molecules per cuLbic millimiietre is known to be the same in all perfect gases , when taken at the same temperature and pressure .
Hence the masses of the molecules are in most simple gases proportional to what chemists have called their atomic weights ; and in those instances in which this is not the case they stanid in the same simple relation to these atomic weights as the densities of the gases nearly do .
Thus the masses of the gaseous molecules of hydrogen , nitrogen , oxygen , chlorine ) seleniium , bromine , iodine , and tellurium bear to one another the ratios of the numbers 1 , 14 , 16 , 35 5 , 79 5 , 80 , 127 , 129-which are the atomic weights of these substances , and nearly in the ratios of their vapour-densities .
But to represent the mass of molecules of phosphorus on the same scale , we must double the number used as its atolic weight , and take 62 instead of gases , it follows that nio gas conisists of distinct particles at rest .
The same proof applies , by the priniciples of the differential calculus , to the hypothesis of a contiDuouis and homogeneous substance .
For this proof given more at large , sec Proceedings of the Royal Irish AcademBy , vol. vii .
( 1858 ) , p. 37 .
31 , since its atomic vapour-volume is half that of the foregoing gases .
Similarly in arsenic we must take 150 instead of 75 ; on the other hanid , in .
cadmium and mercutry we must halve the atomic weights , and take 56 and 100 inistead of 112 and 200 .
In the case of sulphur , each molecule of its vapour has a mass represented on the same scale by the atomic weight of sulphur , viz. 32 , if the vapour be observed at temperatures above 1000 ' Centigrade ; but at some lower temperature it seems to contract to one-third of its former volume , since at a500 Centigrade , and under , it is found to be thus shrunk .
The mass of each molecule has become three times what it had been before , and is therefore represented at low temperatures by 96 .
23 .
Let us now consider what it is that puts a limit to the atmosphere .
Let us first suppose that it consists of but one gas , and let us conceive a layer of this gas between two horizontal surfaces of indefinite extent , so close that the interval between them is small compared with the mean distance to which molecules dart between their collisions , but yet thick enough to have , at any momeent , several molecules within it .
Molecules are constantly flying in all directionis across this thin stratum .
Som-e of them come withini the sphere of one another 's attraction while within the layer , and therefore pass out of it with altered direction and speed .
Let us call these the molecules emnitted by the layer .
If the same density and pressure prevail above and below the layer , the molecules which strike down into it will , on account of gravity , arrive with somewhat more speed on the average than those which rise into it .
Hence those molecules which suffer collision within the stratum will not scatter equally in all directions , but will have a preponiderating downward motion , so that of the molecuiles emitted by the stratumll more will pass downwards than upward : .
This state of things is unstable , and will not arrive at an equilibrium until either the density or the temperature is greater on the underside of the layer .
If the density be greater , more molecules will fly into the stratum from beneath than from above ; and if the temperature be greater the molecules will strike up into it , both more frequently and with greater speed .
In the earth 's atmosphere it is by a combiniation of both these that the equilibrium is maintained : both the temperature and the density decrease from the surface of the earth upwards .
24 .
We have hitherto takeni into account only those molecules which , after a collision , have arrived at the stratum from the side on which the collision took place .
But beside these there will be a certain number of molecules which , having passed through the stratum from beneath , fall back into it without having met withi other molecules , either by reason of the nearly horizontal direction of their motion , or because of its low speed .
The number of molecules that will thus fall back into the stratum will be a very inconsiderable proportion of the whole number passing through the stratum , so long as the temperature and density are at all like what they are at the surface of the earth .
In the lower strata of the atmosphere , therefore , the law by which the temperature and density decrease will not be appreciably affected by molecules thus falling back .
But in those regions where the atmosphere is both very cold and very attenuated , where accordingly the distance between the molecules is great and the speed with which they move feeble , the number of cases in which ascending molecules become descending without having encountered others will begin to be sensible .
From this point upwards the density of the atmosphere will decrease by a much more rapid law , which will within.a short space bring the atmosphere to an end .
Not , however , before the denisity has sunk immeasurably below what can be reached in our laboratories .
If there be a unit-eighteen * of molecules in every cubic m1illimnetre of the air about us , there will remain about a unit-fifteen in every cubic nillimetre of the best vacuuims of our air-purnp.s .
The molecules are still closely packed , within about an eighth-metre of one another ; i. e. there are about 60 of them in a row as long as a wave of orange light .
This accounts for our atmosphere 's spreading to the height at which meteors betray its presenice , which is far beyond the height at which we cani detect it by any ordinaryT means .
25 .
If an atmosphere consist of a mixture of gases ( for example , of uncombined nitrogen and hydrogen ) , the bounldary of each gas will be at a different height .
Where the nitrogeni is no longer able to maintain itself , the molecules of hydrogen , with a velocity v/ 14 ( or nearly 4 ) times as great , can still spread far beyond it .
It is also to be observed that the nitrogen will reach a greater height in conisequence of the presence of the hydrogen than it could alone , since an ascending molecule of nitrogen has more chance of escaping the fate of falling back without having encouintered another molecule if there be molecules of hydrogen to be met with as well as molecules of nitrogen .
In this way a substance of which there is but little in the atmosplhere may aseend nearly to the full height to which it would rise if present in abundarnt quantity .
Thus the vapour of socihum , which , as we shall find , is present in the SUn 's atmosphere as a mere trace , seems nevertheless to reach nearly the full height assigned to it by the mass of its molecules , through the assistance afforded to it by the abundanit atmosphere of hydrogen , which extenids much further .
In the saime way the vapoIur of water is probably borne to the linits of the earth 's atmosphere , although but a miinzor constituen t ; and the trace of carbonic acid which terrestrial air also contains , is p-robably supported to a height niearly as great as it would reach if present in much greater quanltity .
Where , then , as in the sun 's atmosphere , the lightest constituent is abundant , all the other gases which enter into its composition , will raing , e to heiohts which stand in the order of the masses of their molecules , whether they be present in large or in small qu-antities .
And where , as in the earth 's atmosphere , there is but a trace of the lightest constituent , viz. the vapour of water , it will form an exceptioni to the rule , inasmuch as it will be unable to mainitain its footing more than a little beyond the limits of the lightest of the abundant constituents , which in the case of the earth 's atmosphere is nitrogen .
26 .
It becomes of importance , then , to arrange the constituents of the solar atmosphere in .
the order of the masses of the miolecules , as this will be the order in which the surfaces of their successive atmosplheres will succeed one aniother .
A provisional attemipt is made in the followinog table to arrange on this principle the better-known of the elementary substances , including all the bodies whose spectra have yet been compared with the spectrum of the sun , or with those of other celestial bodies .
The positioIn in the list of those substances whose names are printed in ordiniary type has been ascertained by direct observations on three vapour-densities , al-cl nday be depended on ; but all the rest , which are printed in italics , are placed on the provisional suppositioni that the miiasses of their molecules when in the state of vapour are proportional to their generally received atomic weights .
It is probable that in some of these inistances the mass is proportional to some simple mnultiple or submultiple of the atomic weight , and that the position in the list ought to be altered accordingly .
We shall find grounds for concluding that this is the case with Barium , and that it ought to be placed in the list probably betweenl zinc and seleniuim , perhaps between calcium and titanium , or between sulphur and chlorine .
TABLE II .
Table of Elementary Substances arranged in the order of their Vapour-densities where these are known , and in the order of the Atomic weights where the Vapour-densities are not known .
i Observe +ed Observed vapourdvapourPresumi-ed masses of Wliether Elements .
( lensity , th , the gaseouts moleprcsent in the that of air hydrof cules , that of biysun 's atmtobeing the 1 rogogen egen being the uniit .
being the uinit .
sphere or not .
Hydrogeni ... ..069 ... ... OG '32 11 which is 1H presenit .
Lithium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
7 , , i ot .
Glteinumn ... .
9O G Boron ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
109 , , B Carbon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
12 , , C Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 713 14(04 14 , , N not .
Oxygen..11056 15-98 16 , , 0 not .
F'luorinie ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
19 , , F Sodinm ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
23 , , Na present .
M1-1-agnesium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 243 , , Mg pr esent .
Alumin-um ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
275 , , Al dotubtful .
Silicon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
28 , , Si doubtftl .
Suilplhur above 10000 C 223 3223 32 , , S Chlorine ... ... .
247 35-6G9 35 , , C Potassiu ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 39-1 , , K doubtful .
Calciumn ... 40 , , Ca preseiit .
Titanium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 , Ti TAB3LE I. ( continued ) .
ObevdObserved vapour-ve vapourPresuimed masses of vpu-density the gaseous moleWite Elemeno'ts .
esst that of cuils , that of byh rsnti h that of air Is-'satio bei ng the h-ydlrogeni drogen bein-g tohe sun'soo aitmo uniit , being the uiiiit .
shr rnt unit .
Vconmdienn* ... ... ... ... ... ... .
51-2which isV Chromnium ... ... ... ... ... .52-5 , ,Cr present , Manzganese ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
, , Mnpresent .
Iron ... ... ... I ... ... ... ... ... .
50 Fe present .
Cadmium ... ... ... .3.94 50-94 5G , ,id not .
Nickel. .
~~~~~~~~~~~~ ... .
59 , ,Ni presenat .
Co balt ... ... ... ... ... ... o9 C Co present .
Phosphorus.450 ... ... 05 03 62 , 2P COPper ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0635 , Cu prese n't .
Yttrium ... ... ... ... ... . .
06430 , , Ziinc ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
65 , Zni present .
Seleniunm ... ... ... . .
0-8 80-40 79 5 , So Bromine ... ... ... ... 5-54 80-00 80 , ,Br Ru ... ... ..d ... ... ..n ... .
85.4 , ,Rbt not ... .tron ... ... ..ium ... ... 875 S , p8 doubtfLil .
Zirconium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 895 , ,Zr ceriutm ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
92 , ,Ce not .
Lanthanum ... ... ... ... . .
92 , ,La not .
Sulphur under 5990 C 6017 95062 90 , 3.8 _Did~ymium ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
90 , Di not .
Mvotrbdenusn ... ... ... ... . .
90 , Mo Niobiumn ... ... ... ... ... ... 97 , , Nb Mercury ... ... ... ... .6976 0 100 , , Iig not .
Rhodium ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
104-2 , Ro Rutheniumfz ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 104-2 , ,Ru not .
Palladium ... ... ... ... ... I ... . .
100.5 , Pd not- .
Silver ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
108 , Ag n-ot .
Tin ... ... ... ... ... ... I ... . .
118 " , , n n-ot .
Thorinum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 119 , ,Tb Uranlium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 120 , ,U Antimiony ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 122 , , b not .
Iodin-e ... ... ... ... 8-710 125-95 127 , ,I Telluriumn ... ... ... .8-913 128-80 129 , ,To Cesium ... ... n ... ... ... ... ... 133 , ,Cs Barium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
137 , ,Ba present .
Tantalum ... ... ... ... ..1370 6 Ta Arsenic ... ... ... ... 100 1531 150 , ,2.As Tungqsten ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 184 , ,W Gold ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1900 , Au .
not .
Iridium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1972 , ,Ir not .
Platinum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1972 , ,Pt not .
OsmWium ... ... ... ... ... ... 199 , ,Os Th11allim ... .o ... ..n ... ... ... . .
204 , ,TI Leaid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 207 , ,Pb not .
Bismnuth ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
210 , , Bi a[The position of vanadium has been alteredl from that assigned to it in the MS .
of this memoir , in accordance with Rioscoo 's recenit investigations regardin'g this substance .
I-f the vapour-density of van-adlium-i be ever determined , it is presumable that .
its molecular mass will prove to be 2 V , i. e. 1-02 4 , in analogy to those of phosphorus and arsenic , in wh-ich case its positionin the Table will nieedl to be alteredl again.-September 1808.1 Section III.--Of the Outer Atmosphere of the Sun .
27 .
Such , them , is the order in which we should expect to find that those of the elements which exist in the sun 's atmosphere succeedl oil inother , the atmosphere of hydrogen far overlapping all the rest ; thieni , at a profound depth , sodium and magnesium , reaching nearly to the same height , since the masses of their molecules are near-ly equal ; next , at a great distance further down , calcium ; then , in a grou ) reaching niearly to the same height , ehromium , maniganese , iron , n-ickel , and cobalt ; then , within a moderate distance of these , copper and zinic ; and lastly , after a vast interval , barium .
These are all the elements as yet known to exist in the sun 's atmosphere .
Let us now compare with the observationis this anlticipation founded on the molecular constitution of the elements , bearilig in minid that the order is likely to be in some few cases incoirect , owing to our having occasionally erred in assigning the foregoing " masses to the vapour-molecules .
To make this comparison most effectually , Table II .
, opposite to p. 32 , of the intensities of the solar lines observed by Kirchhoff will be of use .
In this Table the lines of each known constituent of the solar atmosphere are placed in the order in which they occur in the parts of the spectrum mapped by Kirchhoff , which extend between wave-lengths 43 and 77 eighth-metres , that is from the indigo about G to the extreme crimson beyond A* .
Each spectral line is represented by a nuttmbere , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 or 6 , which also indicates its strength in the solar spectrum , 6 meaning the darkest and 1 the faintest recorded by Kirchhoff .
28 .
The study of this Table is particularly instructive .
It will be convenient to begin by studying the iron lines , since they are numerous , extend over a great range of the spectrum , and above all because there appear to be no bright lines in the iron spectrum to which dark lines in the solar spectruim do not correspond .
This was invariably the case with those observed by Kirchhoff , who has mapped upwards of 70 of them TABLE ( coitiziued ) .
Wave-lengths Wave-lengths in in eighth-metres , Kirchhoff 's eighth-metres , Kirchhoff 's i. e. metres diarbitrary i. e. metres diarbitrary vided by 108 .
scale .
vided by 108 .
scale .
49 30 corresponds to 1998-0 55 corresponds to 1309-0 49 40 , , 1986-1 55-70 , , 1248-4 49-50 , , 1974 3 55-80 , , 1240 2 49-60 , , 1962-5 55-90 , , 1232-0 49-70 , , 1950-8 56 , 1223 8 50 , , 1913-0 ? ?
56-10 , , 1215.6 51 , , 1762 0 ? ?
56-20 , , 1207-4 5160 , , 1673-0 56-30 , , 1199 3 51-70 , , 1658-3 57 , , 1144-0 ? ?
51-80 , , 1644-3 58 , , 1070-0 ? ?
51-90 , , 1630-8 58-90 , , 1009-7 52 , , 1617-5 59 , , 1003 0 52-10 , , 1604-3 60 , , 948-0 ? ?
52-20 , , 1591-2 61 , , 897 2 52 30 , , 1578-3 61-10 , , 891-9 52-40 , , 1565-5 61-20 , , 886-6 52-50 , , 1552-8 61-30 , , 881-3 52-60 , , 1540-2 61-40 , , 876-1 52-70 , , 1527-9 61-50 , , 870-9 52-80 , , 1516-1 61-60 , , 865-7 52-90 , , 1504-8 61-70 , , 860-6 53 , , 1494-1 61-80 , , 855-5 53-10 , , 1483-8 61-90 , , 850-5 53-20 , , 1473-7 62 , , 845-5 53-30 , , 1464-0 63 , , 800.0 ? ?
53-40 , , 1454-4 64 , , 758-5 ? ?
53-50 , , 1445-6 65 , , 719 ? ?
53-60 , , 1436-1 66 , , 682-3 53-70 , , 1426-6 67 , , 648-3 ? ?
53-80 , , 1417-2 68 , , 615-9 ? ?
53-90 , , 1407-7 69 , 584-8 54 , , 1398-3 70 , , 555-8 ? ?
54-10 , , 1389-0 71 , 528-4 ? ?
5)4-20 , , 1379-7 72 , , 502-4 ? ?
54-30 , , 1370-5 73 , , 477-7 ? ?
54-40 , , 1361-2 74 , , 453-8 ? ?
54-50 , , 1352-1 75 , , 430-3 ? ?
54-60 , , 1343-3 76 , , 406-9 54-70 , , 1334-7 77 , , 383 ?
The following Table contains the original determninations expressed in metrical icasores on the supposition that a Paris inch=27-07 illiimetres .
The signl + is added where the omitted decimals lay between -0016 ' aznd 1005 , andwhere they lahy betweei -005 that ( given betweeni iron electrodes from a battery of S0 cells , which gives a far greater number* of iron linles , and with this apparatus he has beeii able to observe the enormous number of 460 coincidences .
TABLE ( conlinued). .
t_cB Remarks .
53 LB9 2.+ 19 o *74 o 1430 5e *10 1+ 138-4 c CZ 5369+ 25+ 1428-2 S Fe .
*71+ 2 1425-4 5b Fe .
'74+ 3 1423-0 Sb Fe .
'761+ 142115 6c Fe .
5408 ? ?
3313909 5 5d Fe .
5101 ?
7 138944 6c Fe .
*28+ 19137236 b Fe .
'345+ 1367-0 6d Fe .
'49-f 161352-7 Sb Fe .
'51 1+ 13S1'1 Sb Fe .
54-609 1343'5 6c0 Fe .
55'77117 1242-6 6c Fe .
'91 14 ? ?
1231-3 Sd Fe .
*99 8 1.2247 5d Ca. 56 0341221-6 S5 d Ca..07 4+ 1217-8 r ) d Fe ; Ca. '20 13 1207.3 5 , q Fe .
D2 5894+ 274+ 1006 8 6b Nal Initerval betweenD , and D , DI 59 00+ 6 1002-8 ( ) b Na j =G603Xth-met'es .
6105S204+ 8949 2e Ca. '2419 8849 4b Ca. Co. '3915 877-0 4c Fe .
'43+ 5874'3 4b Ba .
'63+ 20 863'39 iSb Ca. '71 8860 2 3d Ca. '9221849 73c Fe .
a 62 59 67+A strong linle canLsed by the earth 's C 6568 309 6941 C ) ; IL ; winged .
jatmosphere .
B 68'7S 307 S92-7 I6c Winged on en side .
A 76112 737 404-1 6 Winged .
In this list two of Angstr6ni 's rays have beeii omitted-those to which he assigns the wave-lengthfs 19034 and 19364 VIlIth-inhelies , which correspond to 51-53- , and 52-42 VIIIth-metres ; since there arc no conspicuous linies in the solar spect.ruim corresponding to them-i , andic since , in the ease of the latter at least , there is plainly soimle , mlliisprint .
If we might conjecture that they ought to haave beein entered as 1900(4 and 1932 4 eighthl-inchles , they wouldl corresponid to 51-44+ and 52 31 eighth-miietres , and belong to two strong iron rays .
29 .
The first thing that strikes the eye in the part of the table appropriated to the ironl lines is a continuous gradation of intensity from the indigo to the red .
The most refrangible iron lines mapped by Kirchhoff are those in the indigo , all of which he found of the deepest black , which he represents by the number 6 .
Then follow the lines in the blue , in which there appears to be a struggle between this intense blackness , and the darkest shade short of blackness recorded by Kirchhoff , and to which he assigns the number 5 .
In this part of the spectrum lines of the intensity 6 are still predominant .
In the next region , the bluish-green , this struggle is continued , but now with a predominance of lines of the intensity 5 .
About the middle of the green we for the first time meet with an unexceptionable linle of intensity 4 , corresponding to the wavelength 53-87 VIIIth ; metres .
The last line of intensity 6 presents itself at wave-length 55 77 , after which , in .
the yellow , orange , and red , the inteDsity of iron lines has for the most part sunk to 4 or 3 .
30 .
Now the iron lines seen in the solar spectrum originate in the upper part of the iron atmosphere , each ray coming from a stratum of such a thickness that it is opake for that particular ray .
This thickness differs from ray to ray , being greater for those rays which are caused by atomic motions of feeble intensity .
Such rays therefore will in part originate from a greater depth in the solar atmosphere , and therefore from a region of greater heat .
They will therefore be brighter , or in other words less conlittle informed on these subjects to speculate with any confidence on the cause , and perhaps the following conjecture is the best that can yet be made .
The effect may perhaps be due to the brief duration of the , sparks .
The enormous temperature caused by each spark lasts for a very short time , and is not renewed until after the lapse of an interval long in comparison .
The electricity , when it passes , probably produces its direct effect in accelerating and controlling the directions of the motions of translation of the molecules of the gas ; and only indirectly , through the resulting violence of the molecular collisions , excites those more subtle atomic motions which give out the light .
Those of the atomic motions therefore which are most influenced by each collision will be the first to reveal themselves , and the rest not until after very many collisions shall have taken place , so that before they have had time to culminate , the duration of the spark may be over : whereas when they have time fully to unfold themselves , as they can in a continuous current , they may attain in some cases a higher intenisity , and consequently emit a greater brightness .
In support of this explanation , we have the fact that the lines seem with Ruhmkorff 's coil have been observed to correspond to the most conspicuous lines in the solar spectrum .
Now those atomic motions which are most developed by a few collisions will usually be those of which the periodic time is most subject to perturbation ( see Phil. Mag. 1868 , vol. xxxvi .
p. 132 ) .
They will therefore in such cases give rise to dilacded lines in the solar spectrum , and if the circumstances be such as to cause much of the breadth of the line to appear quite black , as for example in many of the iron lines , it will in consequence of its breadth appear much more intense .
On the other hand it should be remiiembered as against our conjecture , that if the Ruhmkorff 's sparks last as lolng as the measures Wheatstone made of the durat ; ion of the spark of a Leyden Jar , viz. four Vth-seconds , the number of collisionis which take place during the continualnce of a spark must be so great as to take away much from the probability of the explanation .
spicuouis as dark rays .
These same rays , sinice they are duie to feeble atomic motionis , will , in the iron spectrumn produced by artificial meanls , appear the faintest .
Now in all regions of the iron spectrum artificially produced , rays present themselves of every possible degree of intensity ; whereas of those observed by Kirchhoff in the solar spectrum , the fluctuation of intensity in any orne region of the spectrum seldom exceeds onre degree of his numerical scale , and but once exceeds two degrees .
This is coniclusive evidence that iron is so very abundant in the solar atmosphere as to be opaque for the feeblest of these rays before a depth is reached which is very much hotter than the outer surface of the iron atmosphere .
It also shows that the gradationi of brightness in the iron lines from the more to the less refranigible parts of the spectrum is not due to the less refranigible lines coming from profound depths , and being on this accouint brighter .
But the cause is sufficiently obvious .
If a body of such a kind that it emits the maximum light corresponding to its temperature , be gradually heated , it will first begill to glow with scarlet , orange , yellow , and green rays ; and according as its temperature rises its spectrum will expand in both directions towards the extreme red , and still more towards the violet .
If , then , a body heated in a furnace be compared with one at a much higher temperature , the spectrum of the former will evervwhere be fainter than that of the latter , but not equally so .
It may have a considerable brightness in the red and orange rays , and show sensible light in the green , and at the same time appear in the comparison absolutely black at higher refra-igibilities .
And the same general appearanice* would doubtless be founid if the maximum spectrum of any one temperature were compared with the maximum spectrum of a higher temperaturet .
Now the upper layer of the iron atmosphere , from which comes all the light that reaches us in the iron lines of the sun 's spectrnm , is at a vastly lower temperature than the photosphere , but not so cool as to be of insensible brightness through the whole range of the spectrum .
It begins to glow sensibly in the green , even in comparisonl with the intenise light of the sun , and renders the iron lines of the green short of absolute blackiness .
And this effect goes on increasing until it reaches its climax in the oranlge and red .
31 .
As molecules of calcium vapour are of a mass less than that of irlon molecules , in the ratio of 40 to 56 , calcium vapour must reach a far cooler regioni of the solar atmosphere than iron .
Nevertheless none* of the calcium lines observed by Kirchhoff appear to be as intense as many of the iron lines .
This is no doubt due to calcium vapour being a much smaller constitueut of the sun 's atmosphere than iron , just as oxygen is less abundant in our atmosphere than nitrogen , and carbonic acid much less abundant than either .
Judging from the indigo and green calcium lines , which are all less intelnse than the iron lines in their neighbourhood , it would appear that some light reaches us from a hotter region than any light that reaches us from iron lines , and accordingly that calcium gas is so rare , and in consequence the stratum which can intercept and therefore is employed in emitting these rays is so thick that , though its upper surface soars far above the upper surface of the iron atmosphere , its under surface stretches further down than the under surface of the corresponding , and comparatively shallow , active stratum of iron gas .
This appears to be the case too with most of the rest of the calcium lines observed by Kirchhoff ; but the lines 50599 and 56-03 in the yellowish-greenl , and the lines 61 63 , 64-32 , and 64.55 in the red , all of which are of intensity 5 , are probably exceptions , and owe their strength to calcium gas being much more opake in reference to them , so that they are emitted by a stratum shallow enough to reach but little beyond the extreme verge of the iron atmosphere .
These are some of the lines that give the calcium light , when seen undispersed , its beautiful purple colour .
Calcium is no doubt very opake also in reference to the other lines of the same class , such as the lines Hll , H-2 and g , beyond the limit of Kirchhoff 's maps .
In taking a general review of the calcium spectrum , these lines should be left out of consideration as not being comparable with the rest ; and if this be done , the remaining lines will exhibit the same gradation of intensity from the red to the blue which we found in the iron lines .
32 .
But in the immense extent of atmosphere which spreads upward from the surface of the calcium , in the vast elevation to the boundary of the atmospheres of magnesiunm and sodium , and in the far greater heights to which hydrogen alone can soar , the temperature has fallen too low to produce light visible in comparison with solar light in any part of the spectrum .
And accordingly all the linles referable to magnesium , sodium , or hydrogen , in whatever part of the spectrum they may lie , are intensely black .
But before proceeding to examine these lines in detail , it will be convenient to inquire into the state of the regions further clown .
33 .
The sun 's atmosphere is heated beneath by contact with the scorchiuig body of the sun , and it would throughout its whole extent attaini this l The lines 4883 and 5274 of intensity 6 , the latter of which is the less refrangible of the lines constituting the close double line E , are left out of account ; as they are also iron lines , and no doubt owe their intensity to this circumstance .
The lino b6-07 of intensity 5 , which is also a line common to the two spectra , is probably a stronger line on this account than it would be either as a calcium or as an iron line .
enornmous temperature were it not for the escape of heat from it , which is perpetually going on .
The first and principal escape of heat takes place from the photosphere , but it is also going on in the form of spectral lines , whether visible or beyond the range of refrangibility that the eye can see , from the upper layer of each gas that is successively left behind in asceniding through the atmosphere .
The last escape of heat is from the hydrogen linies .
The stream of heat which passes per seconld through any spherical shell concentric with the suLn into those parts of the atmosphere that lie outside it , is equal to what escapes per second from the latter into space .
This stream therefore rema-ins constant wherever an interval exists between the outer boundary of one gas and the bottom of that uipper layer of the next which is thick enough to be opake for the faintest of its spectral lines ; but throughout the depth of each such upper stratum the stream of heat is on the decrease.34 .
We shall better uniderstand what takes place by considering the agency by which the heat is carried outwards through the solar atmosphere .
It is partly by conduction , but principally by what may be called internal radiation , to which are probably to be added in some situationis convectioni and irregular motions such as would result from storms .
By conduction I mean that conduction which is effected by the rectilinear motionis of the molecules .
It is the only conduction to which experimentalists have founid it necessary to attend , since the quantities of transparent gas upon which they ' operate are not such as to be , in the cool state in which they have examined them , perceptibly opake to any of the incident rays .
But whei the gas is incandescent and present in enormous quantity , the chief transference of heat through it will be in consequence of what I have called internal radiation , which comes into play whenever the spectral rays emitted by onie part of the gas are absorbed by the surrounding parts before they can reach the outer bounidary and escape .
If the gas be highly opake for any particular ray , which is in general the case of those rays that appear very bright in spectroscope experiments , it will travel but a short distance before it is effectually absorbed ; but the rays which are faint in spectroscope experiments will wanider further , and will contribute the most to the rapid carriage of the heat to great distanices .
It should also be borne in mind that if an extenisive gas have a uniform temperature throughout , the rays which at profound depths are dashing about , are all of the maximum brightness corresponding to that temperature ; but that if the temperature of the gas be shaded off in one direction , as it is in the solar atmosphere , the rays of internal radiation wh2ich are directed outwards at any particular spot are brighter than the maximum brightness corresponding to the temperature of that situation , since they come from warmer regiols ; and that those rays will be the brightest which in our experimenits would be faint , since they come from the most remote , and , therefore , from the hottest of the parts from which any of the rays arrive .
35 .
It will not now appear strange that the region immediately otutside the photosphere should attain an enormous temperature .
It is in conitact with the luminous clouds , and would on this accouint alone be brought to as high a temperature as theirs ; but , beside this , rays of every refrangibility are emitted from the hotter region beneath the clouds of anl intensity corresponding to the far muore consuming heat which there prevails .
And if out of this terrific heat all the rays be selected which correspond to all the spectral lines of every gas in the solar atmosphere , they will constitate a body of heat , a small part of which is no doubt spent upon the gauzelike luminous clouds , or absorbed by the intermingled atmosphere .
, but the bulk of which is poured into the atmosphere overhead .
On the other hand the only heat which escapes outwards from this upper atmosphere is the quantity , small in comparison , which is emitted by these same spectral rays at the reduced temperatures which correspond to the duisky lines visible in the solar spectrum , or to similar lines lying beyond the limits we can see *. .
All the rest of the heat received by the superincumbent atmosphere is returned by it downwards , and is the measure of the fervid temperature which its lowest stratum attains .
Thus the atmosphere above the luminous clouds will begin by waXing in temperatuire , and contillues to grow hotter through .
that interval to which the heat emnitted from beneath can in any abundance directly penetrate .
At the limit of this space there will be a surface of maximum temperature , after which the heat will very gradually fade off by reason of the conduction , convection , and internal radiation which feed the escape outwards from the upper layers of the successive atmospheres .
36 .
It is of importance to observe that if the boundary of any one of the gases that constitute the sun 's atmosphere fall within the stratum which is hotter than the luminous clouds , or very close above it , that gas can only exist in a state of such utter attenuation within the stratum that we can scarce expect to detect any lines in the spectrum corresponding to it .
The stratum in question rests upon the , luminious clouds benieath , and its upper limit is to be defined as that situation in which the temperature has again fallen to the same point at which it stands in the shell of clouds .
At all intermediate stations the temperature is higher , or , in other words , the motions of the molecules of the gases are more active. .
At the upper and under boundaries of the stratum they are equal ; but the pressure , and consequently the density , is somewhat less at the upper station , or , in other words , the molecules of the gases constituting the atmosphere are there a little more separated .
Now any gas which comes to an end withiin the stratum must be unable to maintain itself at the upper surface of the layer , while in the stratum of luminous clouds it is able to hold its ground with equal molecular motions , solely because the molecules are there somewhat niearer together .
It must therefore at the lower station be in a state of almost inconceivable rarefaction ; and , from the laws of diffusion , its density at any higher point can nowhere go beyond this .
It appears , therefore , almost in vain to expect to see bright lines in the solar spectrum .
If , however , any such exist* , they will probably be most readily detected in light taken from near the margin of the sun 's disk , where the brightness of the region behind the luminous clouds is cut off , and where the thickness of the stratum of attenuated gas which forms the bright lines is increased by the oblique position 6f the spectator .
37 .
This rarefaction ( which would be carried to an extreme in the case of a gas , if any such exist , which extends into , but not beyonid , the stratum that is hotter than the luminous clouds ) will also affect in a very considerable degree those gases which do not spread far beyond it .
Accordingly the fainter lines in the solar spectrum either arise from such lowlying gases in a state of great tenuity , in which case those lines only can be visible in reference to which these gases are most opake , which will therefore be the brightest of their artificial spectra ; or they arise from constituents of the solar atmosphere which spread into the colder regionis above , in which case they caln only be those lines in reference to which these gases are highly transparent-such as are lines 50A48 and 53d52 of the Calcium spectrum , and the lines 49-21 and 51 81 of the Nickel spectrum .
It may perhaps be found that faint lines of this latter class will be seen about equally distinctly in spectra formed of light taken from the centre of the sun 's disk , and in spectra formed of light taken from near its margin .
When the light is taken from the centre these lines have the advantage of a brighter background to set them off ; when it is taken from the margin they have in their favour the greater depth of Calcium or of Nickel atmosphere which is looked through .
But in the case of those faint lines of the other class which originate in the lower strata of the sun 's atmosphere , the effect of obliquity will be very much greater ; so that we may expect to find these rays most conspicuous in spectra of light from very near the edge of the disk .
This appears to accoun-t for observations* lately made by Angstrom .
38 .
Let us now consider the information given to us by the lines of the spectrum which are due to hydrogen , sodiurn , and magnesium .
In the first place the sodium lines are narrow and sharply defined .
In both respects they differ from the lines of hydrogen and magnesium , which are broad and winged , that is , shaded off on one or both sides into dusky bands less dark than themselves .
Now at and up to the temperature of the flame of a spirit-lamp sodium vapour can give rise to such lines ; but at the temperature of a Bunsen 's burnier the sodium lines have begun to expand and be ill defined .
HLence we learn that in those upper regions of the sun 's sodium atmosphere in which these lines originate , the temperatur e is lower than that of the flame of a Bunsen 's burner .
Nor need we be astonished that this or a much lower temperature can prevail so close to the fierce heat of the photosphere , when we take into account how effecttually the outer parts of the sun 's atmosphere are screened from the glare beneath by the stoppage in the intermiediate regions of almost every ray that could act upon them .
39 .
The absence of wings to the linies D indicatest to us that there is not in the sun 's atmosphere enough of sodium vapour of temperatures intermediate between the temperature of a Bunsen 's burner and the temperature of the photosphere to be in a sensible degree opake to the wings of the rays which it emits .
This both shows what a mere trace of sodium is diffused through the solar atmosphere , and also to what a vast height it rises as compared with the thickness of that part of the solar atmosphere which ranges in temperature between a temperature below that of a Bunsen 's flame , and a temperature comparable with the intense heat of the photosphere .
In fact , the atmosphere of sodium , owing to the small mass of its molecules , which is less than half the mass of inolecules of iron , must spread to a vast distance beyond the iron atmosphere ; and through this immense space the temperature appears to vary very slowly , and to be nowbere high .
40 .
The outward stream of heat which reaches the upper layer of the iron atmosphere for the most part escapes into space from that neighbourhood through the numberless lines of iron , calciumn , chronium , manganese , and through the darker of the lines of niickel and cobalt , all of which drain off heat from this region .
No heat passes beyond , except the small quantity necessary to keep up the feeble escape from the lines of hydrogen , sodium , and magnesium , and others of the same class , such as B , A , &amp;c. , which are not only of a lower temperature , but are also few in number , if we may deem those that fall within the visible part of the spectrum a sufficient sample of the whole .
Since , then , there is so much greater any escape of heat from the upper layer of the iron atmosphere than from the regions outside , there will exist a surface of minimum temperature near the limit of the iron , beyolnd which there will be first a very slight recovery and then a gradual fading off of the temperature .
The observations of the sodium lines indicate that this surface of minimum temperature which lies near the outer boundary of the layer from which iron lines originate , cannot be as hot as the flame of a Bunsen 's burner .
41 .
Within the iron atmosphere , on the other hand , there is a rapid stream of heat directed outwards to supply the outpourings from near the boundary of the irorn atmosphere , as well as what is feebly dispersed by lines such as those of hydrogen , sodium , and magnesium .
Still further downi the stream becomes a torrent , as it has there to supply also the lavish expenditure of heat by the multitude of lines more faint than the iron lines , which are not only more numerous than lines of any initensity comparable with the iron lines , but also each one of which discharges into space a flood of heat proportioned to its exalted temperature , or , in other words , to its faintness as a linle in the spectrum .
All this leads us to coInclude not only that the temperature increases very rapidly within the iron atmosphere , but that the rate of this increase becomes more and more precipitate as we descend .
And this is in exact accordance with the iintelligence brought to us by the sodium lines , which , from being winigless , indicate that the interval from the surface of the iron to the region where the temperature first becomes comparable with that of the .
photosphere , is both intensely hotter , and of trifling extent wheln compared with the vast expanse from the surface of the iron up to the surface of the sodiumn atmosphere .
42 .
Molecules of magnesiuim have very nearly the same mass as molecules of sodium .
The two gases therefore rise to nearly the same hieight in the solar atmosphere .
Nevertheless the lines in the spectrum due to magnesium present a very different aspect from those of sodium , into which we must now inquire .
The lines of sodium are narrow and sharp ; those of magnesium broad and friniged , the borders being of the intensity that Kirchhoff represents by the number 4 .
Now , the iron lines in their neighbourhood are of intenisities 5 and 6 , which shows that the upper layer of iron in which the iron linles take their rise may be distinguished into two strata , the outer of which produces in that part of the spectrum linaes of intensity 6 , while both together produce lines of intensity 5 .
To produce a line of intensity 4 , a third stratum below the layer in which iron lin.es originiate must be in action .
Light reaches us from this third stratum in the wings of the magnesium lines ; and in fact the black part of the manesium lines is due exclusively to the magnesium vapours between the top of the magnesium atmosphere and the plane of demarcation between the two strata into which we have distinguished the active layer of iron , while the wings are caused , at least in part , by the magnesium vapour which exists in the lower section of the active layer of iron and in the stratum which immediately adjoins it beneath .
Thus the layer of magnesium which gives rise to the lines of the group b may convenientlv be distinguished into two parts , the outer of which extends from the remote boundary of the magnesium atmosphere to the middle of the layer from which iron lines originate , and the second from this latter station through a hotter layer which lies further down .
If magnesium vapour existed in the situation of this lower moiety only , the magnesium lines would be bands of their present breadth , but nowhere attaining the intensity 6 : the superposition of the central black stripe is the work of the magnesium vapour in the vast outer section .
43 .
When we take into account how much higher a specific opacity sodiuim and magnesium vapour have than iron for the principal rays which they respectively emit , we are led to conclude that while magnesium vapour is abundant when compared with the attenuated vestige of sodium in the sun 's atmosphere , it may be but sparingly present when compared with such a constituent as iron ; and that this is so is established by the abselnce from the sun 's spectrum of any lines corresponding to the rays of magriesium , in reference to which the specific opacity of magnesiutm is low , such as the magnesium lines 44-92 and 46 06 .
44 .
We have found that there is but the merest trace of sodium in the sun 's atmosphere , and that this trace mounts to an immense height above the iron .
To render this possible there must be some abundant gas which extends as far as or beyond the sodium , in which it may diffuse itself , and so be borne to the full height corresponding to the small mass of its molecules .
The gas which does it this service appears to be hydrogen , which , having a molecular mass only one twenity-third of that of sodium , must soar to an almost inconceivably greater height .
Hydrogen seems to be a very large constituent of the sun 's atmosphere .
There are three considerable rays in the spectrum of incandescent hydrogen , and a fourth faint one has been lately pointed out by Angstr6m .
To these four rays , even to the faintest , there correspond intensely black lines in the solar spectrum .
This indicates an abundance of hydrogen .
The wave-lengths of the four lines are 41 04 , the new hydrogen line , Angstr6m 's h , in the violet ; 43*43 , in the indigo , which is the second of the six very conspicuous lines seen in the sun 's spectrum on the less refrangible side of G ; 48'65 in the blue , which is Fraunhofer 's F ; and 65 68 in the red , which is Fraunhofer 's C. All these lines are wing , ed : the black stripe in the more refrangible lines is very broad , and in the others it is of considerable width .
These circumstances also indicate an abundance of hydrogen .
The te-mperature of the sun 's atmosphere above the surface of the iron is too low to dilate hydrogen lines .
The breadth , therefore , of the black part of the hydrogen lines must be due to the quantity of this element which is to be found in the interval between the outer boundary of the iron and -that situation in which the temperature first becomes too high to appear black when projected against the brightness of the photosphere .
This interval is small in the part of the spectrum where the line C occurs ; at the line F it extends through a considerable part of the thickness of the layer that gives out iron lines ; at the hydrogen line near G it extends quite through this layer ; and in the situation of the fourth hydrogen line it extends much further down .
But even in the least of these intervals there is ugh of hydrogeni to give a very sensible breadth to the lilne C. This quantity must be very considerable ; as also mutst the quantity which can produce , in the hotter regions below , the fringes which border all the hydrogen lines .
To recapitulate , the width of the hydrogen lines , the wings that fringe them , the intense line in the sun 's spectrum which corresponds to a faint hydrogen ray , and the height to which hydrogen can support traces of other gases , and more especially the vestige of sodium in the solar atmosphere , all testify to the abundance of this element .
45 .
The sodium lines D are an open channel through which heat is pcured from a very hot region into that imimense upper expanse of the sun 's atmosphere which is tenanted by sodium , magnesium , and hydrogen alone .
This is not the case with the magnesium lines of the group 6 , nor with the four hydrogen lines .
These all stop heat before it has travelled to any great distance , by reason of the great abundance of hydrogen , and by reason of the specific opacity of magnesium for the rays 6 , and its quantity , which , though small , is immeasurably greater than the quantity of sodium .
And on a different account , the same may be truLe of the faint rays of the spectra of sodium and magniesium .
Two such magnesium rays were observed by Kirchhoff of wave-lengths 44 92 and 46-06 ; and Huggins has recorded three faint pairs of sodium lines , of wave-lengths 51F6 , 56-9 , and 616 , and a nebulous band at 49 9 .
It is not yet fuLlly ascertained whether there are iines in the solar spectruim answering to any of these rays .
If there are such lines , they are fainit .
Now , if it shall prove that no such lines can be detected , it will indicate that heat from beneath of these wave-lengths passes without sensible diminution through the cool parts of the sun 's atmosphere and therefore does not heat them ; and if it be fouind that they give rise to faint lines , this faintness is to be attributed to but little of the heat despatched from hot regions being entangled in its passage ouitwards .
Similarly the hieat which is so transmitted through the wings of conspicuous lines crosses with little obstructioni the colder regions above ; since at the temperatures that there prevail few of the periodic times of the atomic orbits deviate sufficienitly from those celntral periodic times which corresponid to the mniddles of the liines .
46 .
But of whatever kind these or other vehicles for the conveyanice of heat beyond the atmospheres of calcium and iron may be , it is certain that nto sodium or magnesium rays can carry heat beyond the limnits of the sodium atmosphere .
It is also certain that the heat borne outwards is unlable to maintain beyond the iron atmosphere a temperature as high as that of a Bunsen 's burner , and that , after passing a situation but little outside the iron , the temperature alls off from this maximulim .
It must have sunk very low where the next considerable escape of heat takes place -at the boundaries of the atmospheres of magnesium and sodium .
Accordingly , we must regard the hydrogen in that still higher dreary waste which is tenanted by hydrogen alone , as a feebly conducting body , of imnmense depth , warmed but mederately beneath , and exposed on : the outside to a chilling radiation towards the open sky .
Its outer strata must be intensely cold .
47 .
The case of a comet consisting of a gas * not found in the solar atmlosphere is altogether different .
As it approaches the sun it is exposed to the full unveiled glare of the photosphere , and absorbs the heat of those wave-lengths which correspond to the lines of its spectrum .
However small a part of the incident heat this may be , it may make the comet nearly as hot as an opake body would become ; since the comet can lose by radiation no heat except through these same spectral rays .
48 .
Having now examined in detail the lines of hydrogen , sodium , magnesium , calcium , and iron , Nve may treat in a more cursory manner the other elements that have been observed in the sun 's atmosphere .
Chromium , nickel , cobalt , copper , and zinc enter in small quantities into the composition of the sun 's atmosphere .
Probably nickel is the most abundant of them .
Of the others no lines appear in the suni 's spectrum , except those in reference to which they have a high specific opacity , in many cases higher than that which iron has for any of its rays .
There are , therefore , but traces of them present ; and the appearance of the lines agrees well with the situiation in the sun 's atmosphere assigned to them by the masses of their molecules : chromium , projecting quite through the iron atmosphere , produces a few lines of an intensity comparable with that of the iron lines in their neighbourhood ; and the boundaries of cobalt , nickel , copper , and zinc , appear to lie within that upper layer of iron which sends forth iron lines .
49 .
The appearance of the zinc lines is not incompatible with this element 's having the vapour-density usually supposed by chemists , viz. , 32-5 instead of 65 ; but the evidence of the sunl 's spectrum , such as it is , for it is scanty , owing to the paucity of the lines , seems to lean against this hypothesis , unless a similar reduction is to be made in the case of all the other metals of the atmosphere .
But whatever uncertainty may rest on this point , there is at least no doubt that barium cannot have a vapourdensity anything like so high as 137 .
At most it cannot exceed half that number , which would barely raise the boundary of the barium atmosphere within the lower part of the layer from which iron lines proceed ; and , if it were not for objections on chemical grounds , the strength of such lines as the barium lines 45 66 , 49 37 , and 61-43 would prompt us to suspect for the vapour of barium even a lower density .
But the strength of these lines is probably due to the remarkably high specific opacity of the vapour of barium in reference to them .
There is plainly only a small amount of barium in the sun 's atmosphere .
50 .
It will readily be perceived that it is vain to look for the cause of any conspicuous line mapped by Kirchhoff , in any substance with a vapourdensity more than 70 times that of hydrogen .
This narrows very muci the field in which to search for the origin of the darker of the lines enumerated in Table III .
, opposite , the table of unappropriated lines .
Many of these , as , for example , three of the five lines of the group at 60'3 , are probably due to manganiese , and may be remnoved from this table , as soon as a list of the thirty manganese lines , lately identified by Angstr6m , shall have been published .
Others of them are probably some of the 460 iron lines , produced by a continuous electrical current , or among the additional lines which may be produced under like circumstances in others of the elements which we have been heretofore examining .
When all these are eliminated it does not seem likely that many conspicuous lines between G and B will remain to be traced to their source .
Carbon is probably as devoid of volatility as it is infusible ; or at all events the one probably bears some proportionl to the extraordiniary eninence of the other .
If this be so , it cainnot be a gas at the temperature of the situations from which dark lines come , or at least not in sufficient quantity to produce visible effect .
B-ut it is very much to be wished that a comparison shiould be made of the spectra of boron , fluorine , sulphur , chlorine , titanium , and plhosphorus , with the sun 's spectrum , and especially of chlorine , if any weigDht is to be attached to the suspicion , fournded on very insufficient grounds , that the solar lines 43 40- , 43 55- , 66 38 , 66 50 , 66t68 , and 70 00 , the grouip of three lines at 45 1 , and several others , are to referred to this element .
51 .
The absence from the sun 's atmosphere of such gases as nitrogen and oxygen , and of hydrogenl from the atmospheres of some other stars , and the fact that while some active chemical agents lose , like sulphuric acid , their energy under such increasing temperatures as our laboratories can provide , others , like boracic acid , become practically more powerful , give a considerable amount of colour to the presumption that compound bodies exist in the sun .
The masses of the molecules of these compound bodies will in most cases be too-high to permit them , however volatile , to reach the cool parts of the sun 's atmosphere , so as to reveal themselves in conspicuous solar lirnes .
But the probability of their so appearing is very much greater in the class of ruddy stars , as we shall find in the sequel ; and , perhaps it is not impossible that the line B of the solar spectrum , or some of the lines less refrangible than B , may result from some compound of low vapour-density , such as hydrochloric acid* .
It is certainly very remarkable that neither B nor any lille less refrangible has up to the present been identified with a ray of any simple substance .
52 .
Upon a general view of all the lines of the solar spectrum it appears that their intensity continuously diminishes from the violet end of the spectrum up to the line B. At this point , owing to the sudden introduction of an entirely new set of lines , their intensity abruiptly and very much increases .
These new lines either have a terrestrial origin or come from substances which stand high in the solar atmosphere .
The linles , however , which originate further down , do not attain their minimum of intensity until they reach a point further to the right than B. This appears both from the progressive diminution of their intensity up to B , and from the total , or almost total , absence of linses further on , wherever a vacuity is left between the lines which we must attribute to a different origin , as at wavelengths 71'1 , 73-8 , and in the wide spaces between the prominent lines from this situation up to the line A. 53 .
When this is considered in connexion with the cause to which the diminution of intensity is to be referred , it indicates that if two perfectly radiating bodies were gradually heated while the difference of their temperatures was kept constantly the same , the point of the spectrum at which the difference of their brightness is least would advance with increasing temperatures towards the red end of the spectrum .
When the body of lower temperature has but just begun to glow , we know that this situation of minimum difference of brightness is found in the orange ; at temperatures approaching that of the photosphere it has removed at all events as far as the line A , that is nearly to the extreme verge of the visible spectrum , and it has , perhaps , advanced beyond it .
This , as we shall find further on , explains how some solitary stars can attain a depth of colour that approaches crimson .
54 .
It appears from the analysis which has been made that none other of the gases in the solar atmosphere that extend as far as the stratum from which iron lines come , can compare in quantity with hydrogen and iron ; and from what has been stated in ? ?
36 , we may be sure that there is no very abundant gas which comes to its limit in the hot regions that intervene between this stratum and the photosphere .
Hydrogen and iron are accordingly the principal ingredients of the parts of the sun 's atmosphere which extend beyond the photosphere .
Section IV.-Of the Photoslphere and the subjacent parts .
55 .
In interpreting phenomena of solar spots we should never forget the disadvalntages under which we attempt the enterprise .
Our theory may be true , but it is incomparably more tneagre than our knowledge of the causes of terrestrial weather .
Our observations may be correct , but they give us only outside glimpses , and from such a distance that France or Spain would be specks too small to make out whether they are round or square .
We must not imitate the peasant who saw from afar the smoke of a great city , and persuaded himself he had a very good idea of the kind of place a city is .
If our explanations of the phenomena of terrestrial weather are dim and unsatisfying , we cannot reasonably ask from a theory of the corresponding phenomena of the sun , even though it were beyond a doubt the true theory , more than the first hazy and rude sketch of an interpretation .
56 .
Many fixed gases which are too heavy to extend at all , or in any abundance , through the stratum of minimum temperature , must wax in density very rapidly within it .
Hence the density of the solar atmosphere becomes almost suddenly greater at the shell of luminous clouds .
This may be the cause of an appearance not unfrequent in spots near the margin of the sun 's disk , in which situation the further side of the umbra of a spot is often bordered by a bright crescent , giving to the umbra the appearance of a hole punched through a plate .
This appears to be because there is , in these cases , in reality a depression of the dense strata at the umbra , shallow , perhaps , but yet with sides sufficiently iniclined to enable light coming so obliquely as to suffer total reflection* against the flatter surface of the penumbra , to escape through it .
A similar cause may , perhaps , and probably does , enable light to escape from patches of the penumbra when the surface of the penumbra is irregularly undulating in a sufficient degree .
t Such as that which produices Fata Morgana .
Local showers are in other cases the cause of b)rightness in the umbra and penumbra .
The sudden increase of density of the sun 's atmosphere at the photosphere must serve to keep the lumninous stratum in a nearly spherical form .
The surfaces of the gases above the photosphere may be violently tossed about by the storms of the solar atmosphere , but the suirface of the photosphere is never carried further than to the top of a facula or the bottom of the umbra of a spot .
57 .
The winds which affect the photosphere may be distinguished into two classes , those of the sun 's outer atmosphere , and those of the regions within the photosphere .
Both classes may coexist in different parts of the same storm .
The former class sweeping through the open space above the photosphere , and through rarefied air , will often come from far , and as a general rule be the swiftest .
Those below , moving in the dense part of the atmosphere , and perbaps within a confined space , can but seldom attain the same high velocity .
58 .
Both classes of wiind tenid to obliterate the cool filmn in which clouids usually exist , and to replace it by hotter air .
But the hotter air substituted by winds from below , will be equally charged with moisture ; while winds from above will tenid to dilute with dry air both the cool film and the adjoining strata immediately under it .
In both cases new and more transparent clouds will form ; but in the former case the rain will not cease , and we have only facula ; in the latter it may and often does , in fact , whenever the film of clouds and the subjacent stratumn with which it is mixed by convection , have been rendered sufficienitly dry .
When by proloniged convection this state of things is passing away , there will be a struggle betweeni dry weather and wet , which we shall see in the patched appearance of the penumbra .
59 .
Anr umbra presents itself when the cloud , too , is removed , and the dusky body of the sun seen through the opening .
It does not seem likely that this can take place so loing as there is any of the moist stratum at a temperature below its boiling-point and exposed to radiation .
If this view be correct , the umbra can only occur either when the depression caused by a rotatory storm , or by winds impinging from above , has obliterated the dense stratum and brought the air into contact with the ocean ; or when , by the influx of hot air from above or the upheaving of the hot strata beneath , it has come to pass that throughout the whole of .
a vertical column there is no place where the vapour which forms cloud is at a temperature below its boiling-point .
If this happen through the rise of subjacent strata , we should have an umbra without penumbra ; and it does not seem impossible that the same appearance may sometimes present itself where a depression is caused by a wind impinging from above which has not exerted much horizontal friction against the surrounding parts of the photosphere .
60 .
It must often happen that a hot current sweeping over the surface of the penumbra dissolves away part of the cloud , diluting the vapour D with dry air pip to the poiint of being but just unlable to precipitate itself while exposed underneath to the heat of the penumbra .
If a current so charged with vapour happen to cross the umbra , it will receive less heat from below , and some of the vapour in it will now be able by radiation to maintairm itself as cloud .
This cloud will be pecuiliarly circumstanced .
It is formed from ans isolated body of vapour , and on-ce formed will continue in existence , sinice the hot currenits which will rise at intervals through it when convection sets in , will consist of dry air uniable to generate the cloudl overhead , which would otherwise screen it from the open sky .
It will accordingly often find itself unider circumstances to become by reason of this prolonged existence progressively cooler ; and as the temperature falls , more of the vapour is able to precipitate itself , unitil at length the cloud becomes so dense that rain sets in .
The rain is probably caught and dissolved in the dry air below , long before it can reach the body of the sun ; but if it last through a space of even a few thousand metres , it will give to the bridge of vapour the brightness of a facula .
In other cases the vapour either carried into the umbra from around , or perhaps rising into it from a steaming ocean beneath , appears to form mere pellicles of cloud that mottle its deep shadow .
When the storm is of the nature of a whirlwind , a current of dry outer air which has not lapped up moisture from the photosphere , usually seems also sucked in , and manifests its presence in the dark spot which AMr .
Dawes has called the nucleus of the umbra .
61 .
It appears more reasonable to suppose that the phenomena which have hitherto beeni explained by the transference of ponderable matter over immense distances in inieredibly short tim-les , the filling , up of gulfs , and the like , are phenomena of the rapicl formation or dissolution of cloud , and lose inuch of their marvellous character .
Terrestrial cloud may be seen to form within a very few miniutes over the whole of the visible heavens , and often when there is no winyd , or apparently advancing against the wiild .
62 .
If there be a substanice in the sun of low vapour-density , but nCot capable of existing in .
a state of vapour in the coolness of the height to which it would otherwise rise , and if this refractory substance is volatile at the temperature and pressure which exist lower down , it will behave in a very peculiar manner .
In the lower strata of the sun 's atinosphere it will exist as a vapour ; and ffromii this situation it will keep continually making its way upward in its effort to find its natural level .
Before it reaches its destination , Lowever , the gas incessantly streaming upward will as incessantly be precipitated .
If the particles of the cloud so formed are heavier than the survounding atmosphere , they will begin to subside .
Not only so , but the chill caused by their radiation in their new solid or liqlaid state , will make the inverse flame spoken of in ? ?
8 burrn downwards , until it sinks to that level at which the upward supply of vapour , owing to its tendeney to diffuse itself upwards , or caused by currents of convection , exactly balances the downward motion of the fiery cloud from subsidence or the desecndiDg currents of convection.:Here , then , if this substance be in sufficient aburndance , we have all the conditions niecessary for the sun 's luminious clouds .
And we are led almost irresistibly to colnjecture that in carbon* we have such a substance .
The mass of its molecules is very low , either six , or twelve , or twenty-four times the mass of a molecule of hydrogen .
It appears to have just the requisite degree of fixedness ; it shows ino sign of volatility at any ordinary high temperature , but has been driven into vapour by one hundred elements of Bunsen 's battery , each element consisting of six ordinary cells coupled side by side ; that is at a temperature which may , quite consistently with everything we know , be that of the strata adjoining the sun 's photosphere .
There is enough of carbon in the sun to produce the lumiiinous clouds , if carbon be as large a constituent of the sun as it is of the earth ; and most of the carbon in the sun is probably uncombined , as carboll does not seem apt to form compounds likely to be abundant which can stand intense heat .
It is , moreover , precipitated from its vapour as a black body with the most perfect power of emission of any known substance ; and we are assured that the lumirious clouds consist of some such material by the absence of bright lilnes from the solar spectrum .
It would probably be impossible , in the present state of our knowledge , to put forward on behalf of any other substance , simple or compound , anything like the same claim to be deemed the material of which the luminous clouds consist .
And I know ' of but one consideration to be set on the other side , viz. that if the luminious clouds be a smoke of carbon , and if the rain beneath is more properly to be described as a fall of soot , in flakes like snow , and if these flakes come to rest upon the surface of an ocean beneath , they must by their high radiating power render this surface eminently luminous , which we know from the phenomena of spots that it is not .
63 .
As , then , there are strong reasons for surmising that the luminous clouds consist of carboni , we are led to enquire what may exist to remove the one difficulty in which this hypothesis involves us .
Now , in the first place , it would disappear if the heat in the space beneath the clouds melts the falling flakes , so that they reach the ocean like rain , and mix with the other liquids constituting it .
And it would disappear if the heat and dryness of the space beneath the clouds enable it to evaporate the flakes ere they reach the ocean .
And , finally , it would disappear if there be ino suich ocean , but only a continuation of the atmosphere becoming denser and hotter .
It will be lnecessary to examine this last hypothesis with some care to see that it is compatible with the known phenomena of spots .
64 .
It is not likely that carboln is the only substanice in the sun that possesses the properties which are the conditions for the formation of cloud , although it is probable that carbon is , of such substances , that one which has by far the lowest vapouir-density , It is , at all events , presumable that among such aburndanit elemenits as nitrogen , oxygell , silicium , and altininium , or such of their compoulds of low vapour-density as ca-n exist in the sun , there may be some which , like carb-on , are solid or liquid at the temperatures and pressures of the greatest heights to which they would , if gaseous , rise .
And if the atmosphere of the sun extend to any great distance below the photosphere , there must be in the sun such a substance to account for the dusky backgrounid we see in the penumbrm and umbrme of spots .
There must in this case be a seconld layer of clouds , formed not far beyond the photosphere , in the comparatively short space through which the temperature aug ments rapidly between the luminous clouds and the central parts of the sun .
These clouds must , moreover , be of some transparent material to possess in a sufficient degree that property of scattering light which would render them as devoid of emissive power as we see them to be .
For the saml-i reasoni we must conclude that the sooty shower from above caninot reach them , as it would inevitably soil them , so as to deprive them of these essential qualities .
We learn from this , that the point at which carbon boils must fall withini the short interval betweel the two layers of clouds .
This is not at all unlikely , inasmuch as the advance downwards of the inverse flanie , of which mention has been so often made , would probably be arrested only by its close approach , either to the bottormi of the atmosphere , or to the situation in which carbon boils , so as to be entirely dissipated in vapour .
Aned the secornd layer of clouds would quickly follow , since its position depends on that taken up by the carbon clouds , as it must lie within the layer of rapidly varying temperature immediately under them .
If this hypothesis , then , be the true account of what takes place on the sun , the penuimbrre of spots are caused by our seeing the clouds beneath through a gauze-like film of carbon cloud which has ceased to senid down rain ; and the umbrte of spots are formed when a very shallow saucer-like depressioni of the photosphere has carried a part of its outer surface so far that it has reached the region in which carbon will boil .
Here the filmy clouid of carbon , which nowhere else can entirely disappear , will be completely dissolved away .
65 .
In this branch of our enquiry we are often obliged to deal with hypothetical matter , and cannot in such cases look for conclusions which command our assent .
We must 'be satisfied if we may hope that they will prove of use in guiding future inlvestigations .
Nevertheless , I am disposed to think that we should give the preference , as a provisional hypothesis , to the supposition of a layer of cloud lying under the photosphere , rather than to the only other alternative which seems in any considerable degree admissible , namely , a highlly reflecting ocean .
It is perhaps , on the whole , and in our present state of ignoranee , enicuimbered with fewer difficulties .
Section V.-Of Clouds in the Outer Atmosphere .
66 .
But to return to what is more to be relied on , we may be suire that some small part of the carbon , or whatever else the luminous clouds mainly consist of , and similar traces of any other ingredients that enter in less quantities into their composition , must escape precipitation , and will diffuse themselves upwards , and the more freely as they come first to a region where they are raised to a higher temperature as well as subjected to less pressure .
Through this hot stratum they will continiue gaseous , but a short distalnce above it they will meet with a temperature low enough to condense them .
Here , then , separated from the photosphere by the whole depth of the hot stratum , they will form a second film of luminous clouds , one , however , which is so attenuated as to be visible only during an eclipse , when it constitutes the lowest of the clouds that then present themselves .
They may be traced in Dr. De La Rue 's photographs of the eclipse of July 1860* as continuous arcs of cloud extending about 350 on either side of the points of first and last contact .
Hence , and from the apparent magnitudes of the sun and moon on that occasion , we may conclude that this upper shell of clouds was at an apparent distance of about 11 " of space from the edge of the sun 's disk , which corresponds to an absolute height above the photosphere of 8 metre-sixes , or 14 time the earth 's radius .
And as the clouds of which we are now speaking are a little outside the hot stratumn that lies immediately over the photosphere , we sball not be far wrong in concluding this stratum to be about as thick as the earth 's radius is long .
The clouds outside it probably form a nearly contilnuous shell round the sun .
They are everywhere of extreme tenuity , but may nevertheless be very variable in density ; and it is probably owing to this that the concave sides of the two arcs shown in the phiotographs exhliibit such a ruggedness that , as Dr. DDe La Rue has pointed out , it cannot be accounted for by the mountainous edge of the moon .
In fact the film of cloud seems to be so excessively thin that even during an eclipse it can only be seen where it is presented very nearly edgewise at the extremiie margin of its disk , or for a short distanice inside it , a distance which varies with the local density of the film , and so gives rise to the appearance in questioni .
67 .
This second shell of clouds , as they consist of the same materials as the clouds of the photosphere , and are higher in the atmosphere , and therefore subjected to less pressure , will evidently not form urntil they can do so at a somewhat lower temperature .
But the difference may be so slight that in their normal position these clouds lose more heat by radiation towards the sky than they receive by absorption from the photosphere , which would cause them to imitate , but with a languor proportional to their flimsiness , all the phenomeila of convection , &amp;c. which we have traced in the prinicipal layer of clouds .
68 .
But this behaviour would be altogether changed if by any cause a part of the film were borne upwards into the cool regions above .
At whatever part of the atmosphere a cloud may find itself , it will be exposed to the unmitigated glare of the photosphere , and will be raised by it to a temperature bordering upon that of the photosphere itself* .
A cloud in this situation will therefore warm , instead of cooling , the air in which it is dispersed , and will tend to float violently upwards until it gets to a part of the atmosphere so rare , that the particles of condensed vapour tend to sink in it from their specific gravity as fast as they are carried upwards by the body of heated air entangled with them .
This may be the cause of the columnar clouds with overhanging tops which have been observed during eclipses .
As they spread out at the top and become diffused , they will not as effectually heat the intermingled air , and will therefore begin to subside .
Between clouds that are carried so violently upwards and those that repose in the luminous shells , any intermediate descriptions may exist , and were perhaps the cause of the mountainous projections from the upper shell that have been seen , and of several of the detached clouds .
69 .
But besides the materials that enter into the composition of the clouds of the photosphere , we must renmember that there may exist other substances in the sun or in some other stars ca-pable of giving rise to clouds .
If there be materials of sufficiently low vapour-density , and in a sufficient degree more volatile than carbon , though not volatile enough to stand the cold of the height to which their vapour-density would otherwise lift them , they will be precipitated in cloud .
Or gases in the solar atmosphere which are kept asunder by the temperatures of its lower strata , may be able to combine in the cooler regions above .
If the new body be a solid or liquid , it will constitute a cloud .
Even if it be gaseous , it will in general have other spectral lines than those of any lower-lying gas in the atmosphere , and will therefore be subjected to the direct radiations of the photosphere ; it will accordingly become intensely heated , and in many respects behave like a cloud .
Its density , too , will in most cases be greater than that of either of its constituents .
And , finIally , a gas which in the lower parts of the sun 's atmosphere emits only rays of a spectrum of the second order , may in the upper regions find itself urnder circumstances to produce a spectrum of the first order .
If this should happeni , the gas in its new condition would be exposed to the full heat of the photosphere , and would conduct itself like a cloud .
70 .
From the exceeding transparency of the solar clouds , they are entirely without that abundanlce of internal reflections and refractions which are what give to a cloud of steam dense enough to be opake , or a sheet of paper , or a piece of white marble , their lustre when illuminated .
It is accordingly by their inhereilt splendour given to them by their being made intensely hot by the photosphere , not by borrowed light , that they shine .
A cloud of dark opake materials is therefore , cWteris paribus , the brightest .
Those which Mr. De la Rue found impressed on the photographs , though not visible to the eye , must have been of substances transparent in regard to most visible vibrationis , but opake for some of higher refrangibility .
71 .
It is very likely that there may be substances in the sun 's atmosphere , or in those of some of the stars , which reach a height at which they are unable to remain in the state of gas by reason of the surrounding cold , or to assume permanently the form of cloud because of the heat of the photosphlere to which they would thereupon immediately become exposed .
In such cases there will be a struggle between the two conditions , the vapour continiually condensing and redissolving until it has by this process imported much heat into its nieighbourhood .
Wherever such a state of things exists , it must inevitably have the effect of raising some of the isothermal surfaces above the position in the atmosphere they would otherwise occupy .
Similar consequences would ensue if two gases became so cool that they could no loniger continue uncombined , and were so heated through their new spectral lines the instant they united that the new substance was at once resolved back into its constituents ; or where a gas reaches a situation too cold for its existence in the state in which it sends out spectral rays of the second order , and no sooner changes its condition than it absorbs through its new spectral lines heat to such an extent that it must fall back again .
Such struggles may be the prolific source of stormns when they are local , and perhaps of an appreciable variation in the brightness of stars when they are on a great scale .
Section VI.-Of the Distribution and Periodicity of the Spots .
72 .
We may catch a glimpse from the foregoing investigations of what appears at least a possible explanationi of several pheniomenia of the solar spots , which we do not seem yet in a position to refer to their causes with confidence , such phenomena as the local distribution of spots and their periodicity .
If from any cause a portion of the lower strata of the outer atmosphere is thrown upwards , it will carry a part of the second stratum of clouds above its natural level .
The intermingled air will dilate and tend to cool down as it ascen-ds ; but its temperature will be restored by the heat absorbed and communicated to it by the cloud carried with it .
Its thus remaining hot will convert what was perhaps at first only a gentle upheaval into a violent upward current , which will , from the operation of cauises familiar upon the earth 's surface , occasion a cyclonie in the lower strata of the outer atmosphere .
The inner atmosphere ( that is , the dense atmosphere from the surface of the photosphere downwards ) canrnot be readily drawn into the vortex , by reason of its great specific gravity ; but it will be swept round and round by the violence of the hurricane above , and a kind of whirlpool will result which will depress the cenitral parts into the peniumbra and umbra of a spot and lift its borders into faculue .
The for mation of this whirlpool will be greatly assisted if , as we shall presently see we have reason to suspect , there are preexisting currents in the inner atmosphere setting in opposite directions along the zones of spots .
73 .
If , then , we are right in attributing a large proportioni of the spots to ascending currents in the outer atmosphere , we must next seek some cause which can determine the existence of such upward currenits in two bands parallel to the equator .
It is natural to look for this in some phenomenon analogous to our trade-winds ; and , as Sir Johnl 1-herschel has observed , such a phenomnenon may arise if the ellipticity of the suni bring about an unequal escape of heat from his poles and from his equator .
The elliptic strata of the atmosphere could be in equilibrio only on the supposition that they are of precisely the same density throughout : but this they cannot be ; for as the outer atmosphere is an imperfectly conducting plate , heated on the one side by the photosphere , cooled on the other by radiation towards the sky , at the poles , where the plate is thinnest , its outer strata will be sensibly hotter than their average temperature over the whole sun , and their inner strata very slightly cooler ; and at the equator , where the plate is thickest , its inner strata will be hotter than the average , and its outer strata cooler .
Helnce at the poles , where the temperature of the outer parts of the atmosphere is higher than the average , t hey will diffuse themselves upwards and overflow ; at the equator , where the temperature is less than the average , they will subside and tend to escape laterally at the bottom .
Moreover , the lower strata being subjected at the equator to more pressure than the average , by reason of the coolness of the superincumbent strata , and to less pressure at the poles , will also contribute to produce an under-current in the outer atmosphere from the equator towards the poles .
Hence if it were not that the rotation of the sun modifies the result , we should have a constant wind blowing steadily from the equator to the poles over the surface of the photosphere , and a counter-current in the upper regions.of the atmosphere .
74 .
The effect upon the inner atmosphere is directly the reverse .
heat will escape from the photosphere very slightly more freely at the poles , less freely at the equator , than the average .
The upper strata of the inner atmosphere will therefore be a little lighter at the equator , and will overflow towards the poles , tending to produce a feeble surface-current in the photosphere in the same direction as the wind which blows above it from the equator towards the poles .
75 .
But the suni 's surface is all the time being carried round by his rotation from east to west .
This will impart a strong westerly direction to the descending current where it reaches the phiotosphere at the equator* , and will further render it where it spreads out over the photosphere towards the poles , a south-east wind in the northern hemisphere , and a north-east wind in the southern .
Thus these winds blow in such directions as to rotate more rapidly than the general body of the sun , and they therefore seek to raise themselves above the photospheret .
At the eciuator the upward tendency expenlds itself in somewhat retarding the descending current , but a few degrees on either side , where this obstacle has become sufficiently feeble , it determines extensive upheavals of the lower strata S. Polar calms and l/ ascending curreiits.\ / one of variable winds produced by descending currents.\ Southern zone of variable winds produced by currents about to asceid .
Northern zone of variable winds produced by currents about to ascend.\ / // /#f Zone of vrianble winds produced by descendiig currents .
Polar calms and ascending cur ents .
_ N. Diagram of the winds supposed to blow over the , photosphere of the sun .
of the outer atmosphere , which , however gently they may begiD , we have seen will terminate in a cyclonie .
Hence the two belts of spots on either side of the equator .
In somewhat higher latitudes , the equatorial current having ascended , and , as it were , split the polar eurrent into two sheets , has diverted one of them along the surface of the photosphere .
In these regions , therefore , there is a constant wind blowing over the photosphere from the north-west in the norther hemisphere , and from the south-west in the southern .
Accordingly , in the two zones of spots there are probably variable winds blowing over the photosphere , the polar and equatorial currents threading their way through each other , and both tending upwards , like the fin gers of the two harnds interlaced into one another .
MvTearnwhile the equatorial current which had risen into the middle of the atm-osphere over the zone of spots exchan , ges , in the northern hemnisphere , its north-westerly direction , first for one due nortb , and then for one towards the north-east , as it ascends still higher .
But this temporary effect of its vertical miotion will be lost , and it will again , when it ceases to ascend and advances only horizontally , direct its course to the north-west , until , in higher latitudes , the swifter rotation which its westward direction imparts to it nlo longer offers any sensible impediment to its sinking in the atmosphere * .
And here it will be iniduiced to do so by meeting in greater conicentration the upper polar current , coming too from regions of slower rotatory motion , and therefore with a tendency to descend .
-lere , then , will end the space throughout which it has split the polar current into two sheets .
It descenids to the surface of the photosphere producing a zone of variable winds-in this case , however , caused by polar and equatorial currents which are both deseending , and so unable to give rise to cyclones .
Between this and the pole the equatorial current seems to be next the photosphere , and blows somewhat towards the pole , but chiefly from the east .
There will be ascending currents about the poles ; but they will breath upwards so gently , and over so great a space , that they are probably unequal to the .
task of heaving up the upper stratum of clouds in the vigorous way that leads to cyclones .
Our conclusions may now be collected .
The annexed diagramn shows in one view the directions of the variouis trade-winds that seem to blow over the surface of the photosphere , and the prevailing character of the zones that separate them .
The diagram is in the position in which the sun 's disk is usually seen in a telescope .
76 .
We found that there is in the ininer atmosphere a slight tendency to produce surface-currents from the equator towards the poles , owing to the greater escape of heat at the poles .
But the inifluence of the winds in determining currents in the photosphere over which they sweep is probably so predominant , that both between and bevonid the belts of spots they are able to determine the currenits in the photosphere , those of middle latitudes being , accordingly currents towards the east , whilst the equatorial and polar currents set in the opposite direction .
Such currenits would evidently conspire with the winds that blow over them to produce agitations in the photosphere .
They would also contribute to that proper motion of the spots in longitude which has beenl observed .
77 .
We appear to be compelled to resort to some external cauise to account for the periodicity of the spots .
Among causes known to exist , that wlicil seems to offer itself with most plausibility for our acceptance is a swarm of meteorites like those which visit us in November three times in a cerntury , and those which visit us in other months every yeart .
To accoiunt for the periodicity of the spots , we must suppose the meteorites to describe their orbit in 11 11 years , the period of mutations of the spots .
Henice the semiaxis major is 4 98 times that of the earth 's orbit .
The perihelion distance must be very small ( say , 0 01 ) to admit of the swarmn 's grazing the sun 's atmosphere at each perihelion passage .
This would assign 9 95 to the aphelion distance , a quantity from which it cannot much deviate .
Now the mean distance of Saturn is 9 54 ; so that we may safely conclude , if the explanation which is now offered is the correct one , that the meteorites in questionl were diverted into the solar system , by either Jupiter or Saturn , at no enormously remote period ; just as the November meteors seem to have been brought in by the attractionl of the planet Uranus in A.D. 126 .
At each perihelion passage some of the outlying members of the streamn become entangled in the upper parts of the suIn 's atmosphere , dashing through it at a rate of about 414 kilometres per second * .
The enormous friction they must undergo before they are brought to a state of relative rest will convert their immense vis viva into heat , which will be expended in raising the temperature of the upper strata of the part of the sun 's atmosphere upon which they act .
This part is of necessity more equatorial than polar , and is very much more equatorial than polar , except on the peculiar supposition , which we have no reason to select , that the plane in which the meteors move is very niearly perpendicular to the plane of the sun 's equator .
The heat imparted by the meteors to the sin 's atmosphere therefore tends to diminish that defect of temperature in the upper parts at the equator which occasions the trade-winds of the sun .
The influx of meteors , therefore , into the sun 's atmosphere mitigates the violence of the trade-winds , and in this wav enfeebles the cause of cyclones and of spots .
Furthermore , except on the very improbable hypothesis that the axis-major of the orbit of the meteors lies exactly along the line of irntersection of its plane with that of the sun 's equator , the meteors must act more on one side of the equator than the other , and thus soften the trade-winds , and render the spots less frequent and extensive in one hemisphere than in the other .
So that the hypothesis of a stream of meteors has the following points in its favour:-it is a vera causa ; it accounts for two wholly distinct phenomena , the periodicity of the spots and their prevalence in one hemisphere more than in the other ; and it leads to such an aphelion disX The velocity of the sun 's equator is about 2 kilometres per second .
f [ It also accounts for the approach of the zones of spots to the equator during the periods of minimum spot-frequency ; inasmuch as when the current descending at the equator from great altitudes is enfeebled , the surface winds of middle latituldes , which have a tendency to cling to the photosphere , owing to their having a less rotationi , will encroach further upon the equatorial current and will thus bring the junction between them , along which the spots lie , nearer to the equator .
If the decennial mutations of the spots be due to a current of meteors , this hypothesis ought to offer some indication of the cause of fluctuations of longer period , such as that of fifty-six years .
This is perhaps to be sought in the great perturbation which the motion of the members of the stream must suffer from the attraction of Jupiter .
This planet must act upon them with intense effect , sinlce the planet and the meteors have niearly the same periodic time.-July 1868.1 taiice of the orbit of meteors as assigns to them a position into which either Jupiter or Saturn could have brought them .
78 .
If these solar meteorites exist , they would seem to have had time to extend themselves round the greater part of their orbit , and leave the vacant space smaller at present than that which is occupied , so as to render the phenomenon depending upon their absence , viz. the increase in the number and size of spots , that which develops itself in the most marked manner .
We may , then , perhaps presume that the epoch at which they came into the solar system was long before the year 126 , though , cosmically speaking , a recent occurrence .
79 .
This appears the proper place to observe that the heat which is so lavishly dispersed by the sun cannot be kept up , as has sometimes been supposed , by the continual falling in of meteorites moving in orbits round him ; since if that were so , the outer parts of the solar atmosphere would be kept intensely heated , which is contradicted by all the phenomena .
In the next part of this memoir , which will treat of other stars , I will offer what appears to me a possible account of the proximate source of solar heat .
PART II .
OF OTHER STARS .
Section I.-Of Solitary Stars .
80 .
Observations with the spectroscope having apprised us of the presence in the suni and other stars of several of the elementary bodies with which we are familiar on the earth , we are bound to assume provisionally and until something offers to warrant a different belief , that those which are abundant on the earth and in the sun are abundant elsewhere also .
Let us then consider how such differences as we must presume to exist between star and star would affect a body like the sun .
81 .
Star manifestly differs from star in mass ; they probably also differ in temperature .
Let us therefore inquire how a great change in the sun 's mass or in his average temperature would operate .
Strange to say , an increase of his temperature would produce many of the same effects as a diminLution of his mass .
This is because the dilatation of the sun 's bulk , and the consequent removal of the outer parts of his atmosphere to a greater distance from the centre would lessen the force of gravity upon them .
In either case , therefore , the effect upon the atmosphere would be the same as if the gases constituting it became specifically lighter .
They would all be able to maintain their footing with feebler molecular motions .
In other words , each gas would rise in the atmosphere until the distance between its outer layer exposed by radiation to the intense cold of the sky , and the inner layer heated by the photosphere , interposes a space of such thickness as will , in obedience to the laws of conduction , reduce the temperature on the outside to the lower miniimum which the gas can now endure .
Accordingly , the spectral lines of a star , either hotter or less massive than our suin , should be all of them more intenise than the corresponding lines of the sun 's spectrum .
MIoreover , maniy substances which by reason of the large mass of their molecuiles are uinable to stanid in the sun the low temiiperature * of the clouds of the photosphere , and are therefore confined to the regions within , are able , on a starwhich attracts with less force orwhose centre is farremoved , to pass through this obstacle and show themselves in the atmosphere above .
Finally , such stars will be ruddy .
The sun himself is a somewhat ruddv star , as may be seen by a glance at Tables II .
and III .
Both ends of his spectrum are subdued by lines .
The yellow , orange , and scarlet are nearly as bright as they came from the photosphere ; the green is sensibly shaded over by lines ; the blue suffers somewhat more ; the indigo about G and the crimson beyond B , very much ; and the violet from G to H to such an extent , that it is difficult to find a spot where the full light of the photosphere appears to penetrate .
The chemical rays beyond the violet are progressively more and more enfeebled as their wave-lengths shorten ; so much so , that the fluorescent spectrum from several artificial sources is longer , and from some much longer , than the sun 's .
A similar defnciency seems to exist at the other end in that prolongation of the solar spectrum beyond A , which Sir David Brewster has dimly seen and succeded in figuring .
Now every encroachment upon the spectrum will be more marked when very dark lilnes become numerous , that is , in stars hotter , or of smaller mass ; and if the lines themselves are pretty evenly distributed , it will subdue the different colours in proportion to their refrangibilitiest .
Ruddy stars , therefore , either have a less mass than our sun , or are more dilated by heat throughout the regions beneath the photosphere .
82 .
The consequences of the two other alternatives , of a star 's mass being greater than the sun 's , or of the temperatture within the photosphere being less fierce , so that these regionis are of less bulk , will be plain inow .
In such stars , some of the substances which range through the part of the sun 's atmosphere above the photosphere are imprisoned within that luminous shell .
Others of them , such as iron , calcium , and those of a like vapour-density , can only hold their ground while at a higher temrperature , alncl would show faint though numerous lines in the spectrum .
A few , such as sodium , magniesium , the substance that causes the line B ( if this ray be of solar origin ) , and above all , hydrogen , would perhaps still continue dark .
The lines of hydrogen , from its incomparably small vapourdensity , would be so much the last to yield , that there is probably no star with gravity so intense as to produce any sensible impression upon them .
And accordingly , in all very white stars which have been examined , these four lines stand out in extraordiiiay prominience .
83 .
It is now no longer a mystery why solitary stars are either white or of a red or yellow tinge .
In all those cases in which the dilatation of the central parts by heat is so proportioned to the mass of the star as to render the force of gravity upon the outer atmosphere the samue as it is upon the suin , the star will be equally white .
The class of more brilliantly white stars with an almost violet gleamn , such as Sirius and a Lyrae , are those with masses too great in proportion to their temperatures for this adjustment .
And , on the other haiid , those whose masses fall short of what the foregoing condition assigns , or , on the other side , whose temperatures are in excess , will , in proportion as they deviate from its fulfilment , have spectra more and more closed in upon that palt in which the spectra of two incandescent bodies differ least in brightness when the luminous bodies are at nearly , but not quite , the same temperature-that is , upon the greetn , yellow , orange , and red rays , uniting inito a tint which always inclines to either yellow , orange , scarlet , or crimson .
The minute crimson stars which are met with here and there in the sky seem to be either very small stars , or stars enormously distenlded by heat .
It is very desirable that the proper motion and parallax of these bodies should be inquired into when practicable , on the chance that some of them may be found to owe their colour to being very small , and therefore very close to us .
84 .
I need not say with what fidelity these maniy consequences of a change in the force of gravity in passing from star to star reproduce them .
selves in Mr. Huggins 's observations .
But before making the comparison , it will be well to consider rapidly what interfering causes may have to be taken into account .
85 .
We have hitherto spoken of the effects of the initensity of gravity in a star upon substances giving the same liines as we see in the sun .
Our results are therefore subject to modificationl wherever the system of lines is itself changed .
If , for example , the elements which give rise to the more prominent linles of the sun 's spectrum are wanting in the stars , other lines , which perlhaps are not , like those of the sun , pretty evenly spread over the whole spectruim , may take their place .
If this should happen , some colours will be more absorbed by them tfian others ; and this will tenid to give to the star the complementary tint .
In such cases the resultant effect will be mixed ; the effect of the cause just mentioned being blended with that strengthening of the lines at the blue end of the spectrumn which operates most when gravity on a star is weak .
We shall presently find that this state of things , which would be improbable in solitary stars , may have been brought about in the case of the companiions of some double stars .
Or , again , elements which in the sun are free may in the stars be found only in a state of combination , and be either absent from the star 's atmosphere or give rise in it to an entirely new set of lines .
This * has perhaps been the fate of hydrogen in a Orionis , P3 Pegasi , and the other stars in which theie are no lines corresponding to the solar lines C and F. If , however , the lines that are in this way withdrawn be as few as the lines of hydrogen , their absence will not sensibly affect the colouir of the star .
Anld finally , such conditions may prevail upon particular stars as will enable a spectrum of the first order to present itself , -that kind of spectrum in which the usual scattered linies of a spectrum of the second order are replaced by a multitude of fine closely ruled lines arranged in groups of regularly shaded bands , so as to give to the spectrum of the gas the appearance of a fluted pillar .
The bands in the spectra of a Orionis , P Pegasi , and some others probably arise in this way , and perhaps from some compound of hydrogen * .
The lines constituting such bands will be affected by differences of the force of gravity in the same way as other linles , and will therefore , if distributed with tolerable impartiality over the spectru m , cooperate with them in producing that tendency towards a ruddy hue which belongs to stars that exercise a feeble attraction at their surfaces .
It may be noted that in none of the figures which Mr. Huggins has given of the spectra of solitary stars with shaded bands , do they seem crowded abnormally over the yellow , orange , and red , but rather the reverse .
86 .
*We are now in a position to appreciate the significance of the phenomenia which the spectral examination of stars has brought to light .
We can easily see why in the class of bluish-white stars of which Sirius and a Lyrme are types , stars at whose surfaces the force of gravity is greater than on otur sun , " the dark lines they presenit in great number are all , with one exception , very thin and faint , and too feeble to modify the original whiteness of the light , " and why " the one exception consists of four very strong single lines , one line corresponding to Fraunhofer 's C , one to F , and another near G"t .
There can be little doubt that the multitude of faint lines will prove to be due almost exclusively to iron and the substances near it in vapouir-denisity , such as calcium , clirdmnium , manganese , nickel , and cobalt , with of course sodium and magnesium .
These , with the exception of sodiium and magnesium , can produce only linies which are faint through the whole extent of the spectrum , sinice when attracted downl with so much force as they are by the stars they canniot exist beyond regions of elevated temperature .
And substances a little higher ia .
vapour-density will be ulnable to endure even the chill of the photosphere , and therefore shrink within it .
The violet and indigo rays being , in these stars not subclued by lines in the same way as they are in the suni , gives to the whiteness of the stars a somewhat coloured tilnge in eyes , like ours , accustomed to adjudge the sun 's light to be white .
87 .
On the other hand , Aldebaran is a good sample of a star which exerts less attraction at his surface than the sun , but which in other respects differs little from him .
All the gases which cause solar lines can rise in the atmosphere of Aldebaran to colder heights than they can on the suin , and , as a consequence , they encroach more upon the violet end of his spectrum , and thus give to his light its rose-like tint .
Another consequence is , that substances present themselves in the star 's outer atmosphere with vapour-densities so high that the sun 's superior attraction keeps them imprisoned within his photosphere .
Mercury , mass of molecules 100 ; antimony , 122 ( ?
) ; tellurium , 129 ; bismuth* ' , 210 ( ?
) .
88 .
All the foregoing appearances present themselves in ciOrionis , which is therefore also a star on which the force of gravity is less than on the suin .
They are found in a Orionis with the addition of a spectrum of the first order , one of whose bands has been observed to fluctuate in distinctness .
We have reason to suspect , therefore , that the changes of brightness of this star , which is slightly variable , arise from some cause which alters periodically the temperature of the upper layer of that gas in its atmosphere from which the spectrum of the first order comnes .
Section HI.-Qf Multiple Systemst .
89 .
Hitherto we have considered only the case of stars uninfluenlced by one another .
If , however , two stars should be brought by their proper motions very close , one of three things would happen .
Either they would pass quite clear of one another , in which case they would recede to the same immensity of distance asunder from which they had come ; or they would become so entangled with one aniother as to emerge from the frightful conflagration which would ensue as one star ; or , thirdly , they would tbrush against one another , but not to the extent of preventing the stars from getting clear again .
It is this last cause which we muust now closely examine .
After the stars disengage themselves they will be found moving in new orbits , which , if their motions before contact had been parabolic , will become elliptic .
They will therefore return againi and again , and at each perilhelion passage will become engaged .
If we take into account only the tangential resistance which the atmosphere of each presents to the motioni of the other , we shall findl that the mean distance of the stars would he reduced .
If the resistance acted only at the apse of the orbit , the diminution of the meani distance would be effected by a shorteniino of the aphelion distance exclusively , the perihelioa distance remaining ulnaltered .
But since the resistance is not confined to this spot , but acts also for some space oil either side of it , the perihelion distance will at each passage undergo a slight decrease , which would inevitably cause the stars in the end to fall inlto one another , if the tanlgential resistance were the only force disturbing the orbits .
But there will be normal forces also .
The resistance to which each star is subjected in passing through the atmosphere of the other is a force neither directed through its centre , nor parallel to the tarngent of its orbit , sinee an atmosphere is not a thing of uniform denlsity .
Since these forces are not parallel to the tangents of the orbits , they will produce normal components , which will be directed outwards ; and sinice they are not directed through the centres of the stars , they will cause the stars to rotate , and these motionis of rotation , which will take place in the same direction in which the stars are revolving in their orbits , will in the subsequent perihelioni passages cause each star to sweep the atmosphere that opposes it downwards towards the other star wnile bursting through it .
It will accordingly itself suffer an equal reaction , which will be arnother force normal to its orbit and directed outwards .
Suich forces will lengtheni the perihelion distance , while they leave the mean distance undisturbed* .
Accordingly the combined where / 3 is the perihelioni distance , and the other letters have their usual significations .
A tangential resistance acting at any point of the orbit diminiishes v , and therefore by equation ( 1 ) diminishes a , the mean distanice .
To find its effect on G , the perihelion distaince , transform the second equation by putting -pG x 1 ) ; ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... e ... ..6 ... .v..v vt t0 00 * .
( 2 ) whence , neglecting the higher powers of xr , since we only seek the effect of a reslstance acting in the neighbourhood of the perihelion where x is small , ' .
( .
1 ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .(3 ) p r , From equation ( 3 ) it appears that if v is diminished while p and r continue unchalnged , x must increase , and therefore by equation ( 2 ) / , or the perihelion distance , is reduced .
; This appears from the foregoing equations by supposing p to receive an increment , while v and r remnain unchanged .
Equation ( 1 ) is not disturbed ; in other words , the mnean distance is unaffected .
Equation ( 3 ) shows that x becomes less ; and equation ( 2 ) that / 3 , or the perihelion distance , is increased both by the increase of p and the diminution of x. The reverse effect upon 3 is produced by a decrease of p. Nowp is increased by the normal forces from the time the stars touich up to the moment of the perihelion passage , and decreased during the second half of the transit .
Accordingly 3 , the perihelion distance , is first increased and then diminished .
If the stars behaved to one another like perfectly elastic bodies , these chanlges would be equal , and would cancel one aniother .
But at each transit vis viva is converted into heat , in other words the stars do not behave like perfectly elastic bodies , and the mechanical forces elicited during the seconid half of the transit are feebler than those during the first .
Hence there will on the whole be any increase of the perihelion distance .
effect of both forces will be at each revoluition to shorteln the ellipses in which the stars move , and at the same time to augment or reduce the perihlelioni distance , according as the effect of the normal or tangential compolnent of the resistalnce preponderates .
If the normal force carry the day , the stars will at successive passages gradually work themselves clear of one another , a tesult which may be very much promoted by the behaviour of the atmospheres .
90 .
If what I here venture to offer as a surmise with respect to the proximate cause of stellar heat and the origin of double stars , is what really took place , we must conclude the sky to be peopled with countless hosts of dark bodies so numerous , that those which have met with such collisions as to render them now visibly incandescent , must be in comparison few indeed .
In the majority of those cases in which adequate collisions have taken place , the two stars must have emerged from the catastrophe , moulded into one , dilated by the conflagration to an enormous size* , and rotating .
Occasionally , however , the circumstalnces of the collision must have favoured the disentanglement of the two stars from one another by a predominating influence in these cases of the normal force acting in the way that has been traced in the last paragraph .
Wherever this happens , there is a prospect that a double star may form .
The heat into which much of the previous vis viva of the two components has been converted will dilate both to an immense size , and thus enable the two stars gradually in successive perihelion passages to climb , as it were , to the great distance asunider , which we find in the few cases in which the final perihelion distanice can be rudely estimated , a length comparable with the intervals between the more renmote planets and the sun .
While this is going on , the ellipticity of the orbits is at each revolution decreasing ; but if the stars suicceed in getting nearly clear of one another 's atmospheres before the whole ellipticity is exhausted , the atmospheres will begini to shrink in the intervals between two perihelion passages more than they expand when the atmospheres get engaged , and will thus complete the separation of the two stars .
When once this has taken place , a double star is permanently established .
91 .
It is a striking conifirmation of this view to find that the astonishing phenomena witnessed last year t in T Coronoe were precisely what we should expect to arise towards the end of the process which has been described .
The stars having been intensely heated by previous perihelion passages , and having begun to shrink , would , at ordinary times , present a spectrumll subdued by an abundance of very dark lines ; but immediately after one of the last occasions upon which their atmospheres brush against one another , the ouiter constituent of their atmospheres , and the outer constituent alone , would be raised by the friction to brilliant incandescence , which would reveal itself by the temporary substitution of four intensely bright for foutr dark hydrogen lines in a spectrum which everywhere else continues to be filled with dark lines .
And , moreover , these dark lines would for a while be renidered faint by the fierce heat radiated upon the outer parts of the atmosphere of each star by its coimipanion * .
It will be a matter of great interest to watch this star when sufficient time shall have elapsed to give a hope of seeing it double .
92 .
When a body of moderate dimensionis enters the atmosphere of a great star , the resistance to which it is subjected will be very nearly the same per square metre over the whole of its front surface ; but if it be of sufficient size to occupy a considerable height of the atmosphere through which it passes , it will be exposed to much more resistance beneath than above ; and those conditions will have arisen which may terminate in a double star .
The cases mtust be rare in which two stars that clash together happen to be of nearly equal mass .
But when this does occur , the circumstances which are the most favourable to the formation of a double star have taken place .
This seems to account for the very remarkable proportion of double stars which have nearly equal constituents .
It would appear , too , that in this class we slhould expect to find those instances in which the perihelion distanlc is greatest , since it will be nearly the sum of the radii of the distended atmosphieres of the two stars .
93 .
If two stars which are unidergoing the process of formation into a double star , be of very unequal mass , the smaller one will be stripped at each perihelion passage of some of its atmosphere .
All those parts which by the friction are brought into a state of rest relatively to the parts of the atmosphere of the larger star with which they come in contact , will , after the stars have beein separated , settle down upon the larger star .
They will , before the next perihelion passage , be replaced upon the smaller star by a fresh supply of the same gases diffuLsing , upwards from beneath , and almiiost to the same height .
When the stars come together again , this , in its turn , will be stripped off ; and by a sufficienit repetition of the process at successive perihelion passages several of the lighter constituenits of the atmosphere of the smaller star will be transferred over to the larger .
Upon the larger star this will not ; have any visible effect ; the acquisition will not even swell his bulk perceptibly ** But upon his satellite the consequences will be very remarlcable .
Hydrogen was the first gas to go ; then , in order , sodium , magnesium , calcium , chromium , manganese , iron , If the process has gone far enough to distil away all of these gases in the free state , the spectru-m of the companion has been robbed of the principal lines found in solitary stars , to be replaced by an entirely new system emanating from substances of higher vapour-density , which , to judge from the spectra of the few coloured double stars that Mr. Huggins has succeeded in examining , are crowded abnormally over the scarlet , oranige , yellow , and part of the green , giving to the companions of double stars those blue , violet , or greenish tints which are met with nowhere else .
If the process be continued still further , more gases will be swept away , and the pbotosphere laid nearly bare ; as a consequence , the smaller star will appear white and nearly destitute of lines .
This may have furnished that numerous class of double stars of which the companions are small and white .
94 .
No double star can come forth unless unequal pressure has acted so effectually on the smaller constituent as to communicate to it a svift motion of rotation .
It is likely that cases may occur where the forces that accomplish this act with such inordinate strength that the cohesion of the smaller star is unable to withstand them , and there result two or more fragments spinning violently , and destined thenceforward to traverse slightly separate paths .
This seems a not improbable account of such a multiple system as y Andromedae .
95 .
Upon the primary the consequences of the same violence would probably be entirely different .
They wotuld compel him to rotate at a great speed , perhaps so rapidly as to fling off his own equatorial partst .
These would form rings about him of the elliptic section which was investigated by Laplace ; at least , they would assume this form if they consisted only of gas , or of gas with cloud dispersed through it which is constantly dissolving and reforming , so as to keep always in a state of minute division , -so long , in fact , as the gaseous pressure caused by any accidental conden* A mment 's consideration will make this plain .
In fact , if the quantities of all the gases in the earth 's atmosphere were doubled , it would add only 3-L miles , or , more exactly , 5534 metres to its height .
The restult , after all disturbance had quieted down , would be the same as if a denser stratum of air of this trifling thickness were slipped in between the present atmosphere and the ground .
To spectators from without , who would juidge of our atmosphere chiefly as one which reaches upwards to a distance of about 200 kilometres ( the height at which meteors begin to glow ) , the effect would be wholly insensible .
t This would be most likely to occur when the friction had acted chieflv on the superficial parts of the larger star , since under these circumstances a star inight be enormously dilated without any ' considerable inierease of its moment of gyration ; so that , caeteris paribus , such a star would rotate swifter than one whose bulk was due to the equal expansion of all parts .
Siriuis may have been an instance of such a star ( see footnote , p. 53 ) .
We have perhaps some reason , judging from the existing areolar momentum of the parts of the solar system , to suspect that it was in a considerable degree the case of ouir sun also .
sation in one part of the ring tends to disperse the gas which had accumumulated there and so restore the balance , with better effect than the slight .
lie superior attraction of the condensed knot caln disturb it .
The gases first cast off } will soon be replaced on the star by a fresh supply of the same kilnds diffusing upwards from below , to be in turn flirted off inlto the rings , if the star have retained sufficient rotation .
It would seem , then , that the rings must of ' necessity consist of exceedingly light materials .
These rings.will obviously move nearly in the same plane as the companion , or fragments of the companion , as the case may be .
96 .
Now , as has been explainied above , when the circumstances are such as favour the formation of a douible star , the perihelion distance of the relative orbit is , after every revolution , on the increase , and the eccentricity on the decrease .
If the t'wo stars miianage to get clear of one another before the eccentricity is worn out* , the process is complete , and a double star has come into being .
But it must ofteni happeni , and is especially likely t where the companiion is small , or has brolken up into a number of fragments , that after the perihelion distance has become very considerable , but before the stars are quiite clear of one another , the orbit will have degraded into a circular one .
If this happen to any fiagment of which the distance is at the time less thanthe radius of the distenided primary , the two bodies must fall together and become one .
But if the perihelionl distanice had attained a sufficient mag-nitude to place the fragment in one of the ring , s surrounding the primary , it will there play a very important part .
It will by its attraction collect this ring about itself , and thus become covered with an enormous atmosphere , encircled by which it will continue to spin vigorously in the direction in which it moves in its now nearly circular orbit .
If this rotation should be rapid enough , the new planet will itself throw off rings ; and if any of these should afterwards become colncentrated into satellites 4 , they will , like our1 moon , keep the same face always turned towards their primary .
All this seems in a very renmarkable degree to be what we see about us in the solar system .
be due to such a moderate change of temperature as , for instance , wotuld convert the vapour of water into ice ?
It should be borne in mind that if the earth was at any time sufficiently hot , the ocean must have them formed an atmosphere of steam so vast , that it may perhaps have even reached to a ring which afterwards became the moon .
Possibly the giants of our system ( Juipiter , Saturn , Uranus , and Neptune ) owe their small density to their great mass , by reason of which they retain enough of their pristine heat to be still clothed in immense aqueous atmospheres .
If these surmises should prove to have any foundation , water was probably the material of rings thrown off originally by the sun , and is therefore not improbably an ingredient of the atmosphere of those dilated stars which do not exhibit hydrogen lines .
( See footniote , p. 50 .
) POSTSCRIPT .
[ ( Continuation of the note on p. 26 .
) I have during the present summer often received the impression that I saw several other faint bright lines in other parts of the spectrum , of which the principal is a line which is coincident with or very close to Kirchhoff 's copper line of wave-length 52 23 .
It should be borne in mind that if suich bright lines exist , they are due to constituents of the solar atmosphere which are eminently transparent to these rays , either from being intrinsically so , or from the excessive tenuity of the gas .
Hence the gas adds in these rays , but only adds a little , to whatever bright .
ness may be transmitted through it from beyond .
It behaves like a faintish flame of very high temperature placed between the eye and a more conspicuous but less hot coal .
Hence , if the background be the spectrum of the umbra of a spot , the bright line should be afaint streak across it .
On the only occasioni on which I had an opportunity of examining the spectrum of a spot , one of the rays I suspect to be bright lines presented this appearance to my eye .
Mr. Lockyer and Mr. Huggins have observed that some dark lines appear broader in the spectrum of a spot than in the spectrum of ordinary solar light .
This is no doubt because the wings of these lines lose brightness which had before shone through them from beyond , and the duskier parts of them in consequence become dark enough to add to the breadth of the central black stripe .
Wings appear to be always ( except in the anomalous case of the iron line 49 61 , which demands a careful experimental scrutiny ) fainter than the central band .
This may arise in either of two ways , either , 10 , because the gas is so rare , or else the perturbations which occasion the wings so evanescent , that the wings are in a conisiderable degree transparent , and much light from the photosphere streams through them ; or 20 , because though opaque they come from a region hot enough to render them less dark than the central stripe .
It is in the case of wings of the former kind only that the appearance recorded by Messrs. Lockyer and Huggins will present itself .
Lines of which the wings are quite opaque ought , on the other hand , to appear narrowest when seen in the spectrum of the umbra of a spot , since the brighter parts of the wings would be them undistinguislhable from the faint background , which would therefore seem to encroach upon them.-September 1868 .
]

