11 .
On the Minute Structure and Movements of Voluntary Mus ?
cles , in a letter addressed to R. B. Todd , M.D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. By William Bowman , Esq. , Demonstrator of Anatomy in King 's College , London , and Assistant Surgeon to King 's College Hospital .
Communicated by Dr. Todd .
The objects of the author , in this paper , are the following . ?
lst .
To confirm , under some modifications , the view taken of the primi ?
tive fasciculi of voluntary muscles being composed of a solid bundle of fibrillse .
2dly .
To describe new parts entering into their composition : and 3dly .
To detail new observations on the mechanism of voluntary motion .
He first shows that the primitive fasciculi are not cylindrical , but polygonal threads ; their sides being more or less flattened where they are in contact with one another ; he next records , in a tabular form , the results of his examination of their size in the different di ?
visions of the animal kingdom .
It appears that the largest are met with in fish ; they are smaller in reptiles , and their size continues to diminish in insects , in mammalia , and lastly , in birds , where they are the smallest of all .
In all these instances , however , an extensive range of size is observable , not only in different species , but in the same animal , and even in the same muscle .
He then shows that all the fibrillae into which a primitive fasciculus may be split , are marked by alternate dark and light points , and that flbrillre of this description exist throughout the whole thickness of the fasci ?
culus ; that the apposition of the segments of contiguous fibrillaB , so marked , must form transverse striae , and that such transverse striae do in fact exist throughout the whole interior of the fasciculus .
He next inquires into the form of the segments composing the fibrillse , and shows that their longitudinal adhesion constitutes fibrillce , and their lateral adhesion discs , or plates , transverse to the length of the fasciculus ; each disc being , therefore , composed of a single segment from every one of the fibrillae .
He shows that these discs always exist quite as unequivocally as the fibrillae , and gives several examples and figures of a natural cleavage of the fasciculus into such discs .
It follows that the transverse stria3 are the edges , or focal sections of these discs .
Several varieties in the striae are then detailed , and the fact noticed that in all animals there is frequently more or less diversity in the number of striae in a given space , not only on conti ?
guous fasciculi , but also on the same fasciculus at different parts .
The author then proceeds to describe a tubular membranaceous sheath , of the most exquisite delicacy and transparency , investing each fasciculus from end to end , and isolating it from all other parts ; this sheath he terms Sarcolemma .
Its existence and properties are shown by several modes of demonstration ; and among others , by a specimen in which it is seen filled with parasitic worms ( Trichinae ) , which have removed all the fibrillae .
The adhesion of this sarco ?
lemma to the outermost fibrillae is explained .
It is also shown that there exist in all voluntary muscles a number of minute corpuscles of definite form , which appear to be identical with , or at least analogous to the nuclei of the cells from which the development of the fasciculi has originally proceeded .
These are shown to be analogous to similar bodies in the muscles of or ?
ganic life , and in other organic structures .
The author next describes his observations on the mode of union between tendon and muscle ; that is , on the extremities of the pri ?
mitive fasciculi .
He shows that in fish and insects the tendinous fibrillae become sometimes directly continuous with the extremities of the fasciculi , which are not taper , but have a perfect terminal disc .
In other cases the extremities are shown to be obliquely truncated , where the fasciculi are attached to surfaces not at right angles to their direction .
Lastly .
He states his opinion , and gives new facts on which it is founded , that in muscular contraction the discs of the fasciculi become approximated , flattened , and expanded ; the fasciculi , of course , at the same time becoming shorter and thicker .
He considers that in all contractions these phenomena occur ; and he adduces arguments to show the improbability of the existence of any rugae or zigzags as a condition of contracting fasciculi in the living body .
The paper is abundantly illustrated by drawings of microscopic appearances .

