' ?
'Report of Magnetic Experiments tried on board an Iron SteamVessel , by order of the Right Hon. the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty .
" By Edward J. Johnson , Esq. , Commander , R.N. , accompanied by plans of the vessel , and tables showing the horizontal deflection of the Magnetic Needle at different positions on board , to ?
gether with the dip and magnetic intensity observed at those posi ?
tions , and compared with that obtained on shore with the same instruments .
Communicated by Captain Beaufort , R.N. , F.R.S. , Hydrographcr to the Admiralty ; by command of the Right Hon. the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty .
This report commences with a description of the iron steam-vessel , the " Garryowen , " belonging to the City of Dublin Steam Packet Company ?
and built by the Messrs. Laird , of Liverpool .
She is constructed of malleable iron , is 281 tons burden , and draws only 5^ feet water , although the weight of iron in the hull , machinery , &amp;c. is 180 tons .
This vessel was placed under the directions of the author , in Tarbert Bay , on the Shannon , on the 19th of October .
1835 , for the purpose of investigating its local attractions on the compass .
The methods which were adopted with that view are given - , together with tables of the results of the several experiments , and plans of the various parts of the Garryowen .
The horizontal deflections of the magnetic needle at different situations in the vessel were observed , for the purpose of ascertaining the most advantageous place for a steering compass , and also for the application of Professor Barlow 's correcting plate : and the dip and intensity in these situations were , at the same time , noted .
An experiment is detailed , showing that where several magnetic needles , freely suspended , were placed upon the quay , in Tarbert Bay , and the vessel warped from the anchorage towards them , first with her head in that direction and then with her stern , opposite de ?
flections were produced : in the first case all the needles showing a deviation to the eastward , and in the latter to the westward , of the true magnetic meridian .
Considering the height of the general mass of iron in the vessel and also that of the head and stern , together with the distance ( 169 feet ) at which some of the needles indicated a deviation , the author concludes that the respective deflections were caused by the magnetic influence of the iron in the vessel - , the combined effect of that about the bows representing the north pole of a magnet , and that about the stern a south pole .
Hethen offers several suggestions for future observation on this subject , and connected with the little oxidation that is reported to have taken place in the vessel .
The experiments having been interrupted by a continuance of wet and stormy weather , the author proceeds to draw the following general practical conclusions , deduced from the series of observations already made , and points out the further experiments which he considers necessary to be tried .
lst .
The ordinary place for a steering-compass on board ship is not a proper position for it in an iron steam-vessel .
2nd .
The binnacle-compass in its usual place on board the Garryowen is too much in error to be depended upon .
3rd .
In selectinga proper position for a steering-compass on board iron steam-vessels , attention should be paid to its being placed , as far as is practicable , not only above the general mass of iron , but also above any smaller portions of iron that may be in its vicinity ; or such portions of iron should be removed altogether .
4th .
The steering-compass should never be placed on a level with the ends either of horizontal or of perpendicular bars of iron .
5 th .
The extreme ends of an iron vessel are unfavourable positions , in consequence of magnetic influences exerted in those situations .
The centre of the vessel is also very objectionable , owing to the connecting rods , shafts , and other parts of the machinery belonging to the steam-engine and wheels , which are in continual motion ; inde ?
pendently of the influence exerted by the great iron tunnel in this part of the ship .
6th .
No favourable results were obtained by placing the compass either below the deck , or on a stage over the stern .
7th .
It was found that at a position 20^ feet above the quarterdeck , and at another 13* feet above the same level , and about one seventh the length of the vessel from the stern , the deflections of the horizontal needle were less than those which have been observed in some of His Majesty 's ships .
The author proceeds to point out various methods of determining , by means of a more .
extended inquiry , whether the position above indicated , or one nearer to the deck , is that at which the steeringcompass would be most advantageously placed .
The concluding section contains an account of some observations made by the author on the effects of local attraction on board different steam-boats , from which it appears that the influence of this cause of deviation is more considerable than has been generally ima-

