]\gt ; VII .
On the Distribution of Strain in the Earth 's Crust resulting from Secular Cooling ; with special reference to the Growth of Continents and the Formation of Mountain Chains .
CHARLES DAVISON , M.A. , Master at King 's High School Communicated by Professor T. G. BONNEY , D.Sc .
, F.R. Received Apri17 , \mdash ; Read May 5 , 1887 .
( 1 ) THE reasoning of this paper is based upon the results of Sir W. THOMSON'S and Professor G. H. DARWIN'S well-known and independent researches on the rigidity of the Earth , upon Sir W. THOMSON'S investigation on the secular cooling of the Earth , and , lastly , upon the beautiful contraction theory of mountain evolution which these researches lead up to and support .
Its objects are to determine the distribution of strain in a ] globe resulting from secular cooling , and to examine the effects which this distribution must have upon the form of the great features of the Earth 's surface .
In the first part of the paper I shall suppose the Earth to be bounded by a smooth spherical surface , and to be made up of a very great number of very thin concentric spherical shells , each shell being so thin that the loss of heat throughout it may be considered uniform .
In the latter part the effects of inequalities on the Ealth 's surface upon the results so obtained will be alluded to .
The argument the contraction theory by the Rev. OSMOND FISHER will also be incidentally considered .
I. The Distribution of Strain in the 's Crust resulting from Secular Cooling .
( 2 ) In his memoir on the secular cooling of the Earth , Sir W. THOMSON works out the case of the conduction of heat in " " a solid extending to infinity in all directions , on the supposition that at an initial epoch the temperature has had two different constant values on the two sides of a certain infinite plane and he shows that , for ' ' a globe 8000 miles in diameter of solid rock , the solution will apply with scarcely sensible error for more than 1,000,000,000 years The solution he gives is ; 29 .
8 .
87 EARTH'S CRUST RESULTING FROM SECULAR COOLING Hence folding by lateral pressur place to depth beloto the Earth 's snrface ; at this depth it hes , , passing through it downooards , gives place to by later tensio ( 5 ) In order to find the depth at which folding by lateral pressure vanishes , I propose to solve the following problem:\mdash ; A globe , of radius , is surrounded by a number of concentric spherical ] called .
, of thicknesses .
, respectively .
The globe remaining at its initial temperature , the shell is cooled by , the shell by in the same time , and so on .
The coefficient of expansion being , and the same for all the shells , it is required to find the distribution of strain resulting from this method of Consider the shell .
If the globe were absent , the radius of its inner surface would become .
It is , however , obliged to remain of radius it must , therefore , be stretched .
Assuming the stretching to be uniform throughout the shell , and the fact that the volume of the shell after cooling is equal to its original volume multiplied by , it will be found that the radius of the outer surface of the shell is where Proceeding in a similar manner with the other sbells , and nembering that the radius of the inner surface of any shell after cooling must be the same as the radius of the outer surface of the shell below after its cooling , then the radius of the inner surface of the shell becomes . .
Now , let also let , . .
, If the shell had been ] lowed to contract , as if the globe and interior shells were absent , the radius of its inner surface would have been .
Hence the amount by which a great circle of the inner surface of this shell is stretched is proportional to that is , if the shells be supposed infinite .
lie thin and infinitely great in number , to * Whilst folding and crushing by lateral pressure must be accompanied by a development of heat , as pointed out by Mr. R. MALLET and others , stretching by lateral tension , on the other hand , must be accompanied by a cooling of the masses stretched .
: where is a constant .
No use can be made of this expression , and we are , therefore , obliged to return to the last expression in S(6 ) , in order to find the radius of the shell which experiences no strain through cooling .
( 8 ) If , in the expression for in S(3 ) , we put , we find that , at any given time , the rate of cooling is proportional to At the depth where the rate of cooling is greatest ( for which ) the value of is Again , at the depth for which , the value of this expression is 00000045014 .
Hence , at any time , the rate of cooling the latter depth is about ] lionth of its value where it is greatest .
For our present purpose I shall , therefore , assume that below the depth for which the rate of cooling is practically insensible , and it will be seen afterwards that the quantities neglected do not appreciably affect the results .
If the temperature of melting rock be 7000o F. , the consolidation of the globe may have taken place about 98,000,000 years ago ; but , as Sir W. THOMSON remarks , " " we are very lorant as to the effects of high temperatures in altering the conductivities and heats of rocks , and as to their latent heat of fusion .
We must , therefore , allow very wide limits in such an estimate as I have attempted to make ; but I think we may with much probability say that the consolidation cannot have taken place less than 20,000,000 years ago , or we should have more underground heat than we actually have , nor more than 400,000,000 years ago , or we should not have so much as the least ) served underground increment of temperature.\ldquo ; * The paragraphs within square brackets ( added June 21 , 1887 ) are abridged from the proof contained in the original paper communicated to the Society , partly because the proof there given was unnecessarily long , and partly because another and more elegant proof is given , in the note following this professor GEdinb.rans .
; 'Natural Philosophy , ' App. D. , SS ( j ) , ( l ) .
EARTH'S CRUST RESULTING FROM SECULAR COOLING .
If the time that has elapsed since consolidation be taken as 174,240,000 years , the depth for which is 400 miles .
For simplicity , let us adopt this value for the present .
( 9 ) The radius of a sphere equal to the in volume being about 3959 miles , I therefore suppose the Earth at the present time to be made up as follows:\mdash ; A central globe , 3559 miles in radius , at a temperature of 7000o F. , which as yet has not sensibly cooled ; surrounded by 400 concentric spherical shells , each one mile in thickness , the rate of cooling in each shell being uniform throughout , and equal to its value at the outer surface of that shell .
On these assumptions I have calculated , from the last expression in S ( 6 ) , the proportional amounts by which the dred shells are stretched or folded .
The results of the calculation are shown in the figure , in which the dotted curve represents the rate of cooling , at the time considered , from the surface down to the depth for which , and the continuous curve represents , at the same time , the amount by which a great circle of any shell is being stretched or folded , the folding by the part of the curve to the left of the axis Ox , and the stretching by the part to the right .
EARTH'S CRUST RESULTING FROM SLCOLAR COOLING .
( 13 ) Let us suppose , for a moment , that the rate of cooling is always inappreciable at the depth for which , i.e. , for which . .
This depth is continually increasing , and varies as the square root of the time that has elapsed since the consolidation of the globe .
Dividing the crust above this depth always into the same number of spherical shells , the thicknesses of these shells therefore increase in proportion to the square root of the time .
Now , the rates of cooling of any two particular shells have at any time the same proportion to one anothell ) , and therefore the proportional values of , . .
, in S ( 6 ) are always the same .
But the cubes of the radii of the shells above the surface of greatest rate of cooling diminish in a less ratio , as the time increases , than the cubes of those below that surface ; so that the depth of the unstrained surface would increase in a proportion rather greater than the square root of the ti1ne .
On the other hand , the rate of cooling of any particular shell varies inversely as the time and , although at any time , the rate of cooling at the depth for which is always about one-millionth of its at the depth where it is greatest at that time , yet in early periods the rate of cooling might be sensible at a depth greater than that for which .
This would have the effect of slightly diminishing the proportion to above .
Hence , within certain limits , it is true that tloe depth of the unstrained surface as the square root of the time has since the consolidation of the globe .
the value given in S ( 11 ) we therefore determine approximately the depth of the unstrained surface at any other time .
If we assume , as is generally done in the theory of the Conduction of Heab , that the rate of conductivity , is independent of the temperature , then the rate of cooling of any particular shell varies only when the time changes , and therefore the depth of the unstrained surface is , at any time , independent of the initial temperature of the globe .
( 14 ) Making use of the conclusion of the last paragraph , we can also determine approximately the law according to which the amount of rock stretched or folded in a given time changes .
Considering any shell above the trained surface , the nount of it folded in a given time has been shown , in S(10 ) , to be S. Now , approximately , may be considered constant , S to vary inversely as the time , and directly as the square root of the time ; so that S varies nearly inversely as the square root of the time .
This is the case with every shell above the unstrained surface , and therefore with the total folding of all such shells .
Hence folding by pressure eflected most rapidly in the early epochs of the 's history , and , since then , of rock folded in any proportion as the square root of the time ( 15 ) The same law being approximately true of the total amount of rock stletched by lateral tension , it follows that the ratio of the amount of rock stretched to the , which varies as , since is a constant for any particular shell .
EARTH'S CRUST RESULTING FROM COOLING .
( 17 ) First , the problem inyestigated is not one according to nature .
For it takes no account of the time during which the cooling has taken place ; and , therefore , being independent of the time , the effect must be the same as if the cooling were suddenly accomplished .
But sudden cooling involves the impossible supposition that , the rate of conductivity , should be infinite .
( 18 ) But , again , let us for a moment imagine that the temperature of the Earth 's crust ( supposed solid ) did suddenly change from a uniform one throughout to its present condition as given by Sir W. THOMSON'S solution .
Let us further assume the Earth 's surface to have been initially spherical , and the Earth to be divided into a very great numbel of very thin shells by spheres concentric with the Earth ; the being so thin that the cooling throughout each may be considered uniform .
Then the loss of heat experienced by any one of these shells is , where V was its initial and is its present temperature .
And , as increases with the depth from the surface , it follows that diminishes as the depth increases .
Consider any two consecutive shells .
Since the upper shell is cooled by the greater amount , its inner surface would , if free , contract more than the outer surface of the shell below ; but , bein forced to remain of the same radius as the latter after its contraction ( and straining ) , it follows that the upper shell must be stretched in order to rest upon the lower .
The same reasoning applies to every pair of consecutive shells from the greatest depth at which is a sensible quantity to the very surface of the Earth .
Hence , on the assumption of sudden cooling throughout the whole of the Earth 's crust that has so far undergone cooling , there ought only to be crust-stretching by lateral tension , and not any crust-folding by lateral pressure .
But , as shown above in S ( 11 ) , lateral pressure , brought into action by secular cooling , does produce folding in the Earth 's crust\mdash ; to a limited depth , it is true , and in rock that may already once have been stretched by lateral tension .
I maintain , therefore , that an argument built up on the virtual hypothesis of a sudden cooling of the globe , however favourable to the contraction theory the other data employed may be , loses its force when we consider the natural process of a continuous and gradua ] cooling .
( 19 ) Lastly , even if it were to be proved that the volume of rock folded by lateral pressure due to secular cooling is insufficient to produce the existing inequalities of land and ocean-basin , it would in no wise follow that the mountain-chains alone could not be so produced .
And it should be remelnbered that this is all that is generally asserted by the advocates of the contraction theory .
Mr. FISHER'S argument assumes that the Earth 's surface was initially spherical .
But Professor B. PIERCE * and Professor G. H. DARWI have shown that vast wrinkles would be formed on the * ' The Contraction of the Earth 'Nature , ' Feb. 16 , 1871 , reprinted from the ' Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , ' vol. 8 .
" " Problems connected with the Tides of a Viscous Spheroid 'Phil .
Trans 1879 ( Part 2 ) , pp. 539-593 .
EARTH'S CRUST RESULTING FROM SECULAR COOLING .
that many geologists are of opinion that the great continents have always been more or less in their present positions * ( 22 ) Now , soon after the formation of these wrinkles , that is , in the initial period of the Earth 's history as a solid , or nearly solid , globe , the unstrained shell must have been very close to the surface of the Earth , and the of greatest stretching also so near to it that stretching by lateral tension must have affected the form of the surface features .
But , owing to the pressure of the continental wrinkles , the amount of .
under them must have been very much less than under the great oceanic areas .
Thenceforward , therefore , stretch by lateral tension must have taken place chiefly beneath the ocean-basins , deepening them and intensifying their racter .
And , in leading to the continual subsidence of the ocean-bed , it is evidently a physical cause of the general permanence of oceanic areas : a cause , it is true , continually receding from the surface , and dimimishing in intensity with the increase of time , but probably even now not quite ineffective .
( 23 ) Again , the amount of crust-stretching by lateral tension being greatly in excess of the amount of crust-folding by lateral pressure due to secular cooling , it follows that folding beneath the ocean-bed will do little but diminish its of subsidence .
The effects of folding in changing the form of the Earth 's surface features will therefore be most apparent in the continental areas , especially in those regions where the change of vertical pressure above the ] layers dimimishes most rapidly , i.e. , near the coast-lines where the slope towards the ocean depths is greatest .
It is perhaps worthy of remark that these are the districts where earthquake and volcanic action are now most prevalent .
In the coast regions , moreover , the products of continental denudation are chiefly deposited , and the rock-folding due simply to secular cooling produces in vast masses of sediment still more crushing and folding .
The direction of the folds will be perpendicular to the average slope of the surface above them , i. e. , they will generally be parallel to the coast-line .
Hence the continents will grow by the formation of mountain chains along their borders .
( 24 ) In a given time , the amount of rock-fo ] ding resulting from secular was greatest in the first epochs of the Earth 's history , and diminished as the time increased .
It does not necessarily follow that the early mountain ranges were the loftiest and most , massive , but probably they were ; and very possibly also the displacement , by crushing and folding , of two neighbouring portions of rock was greatest in early times .
But , * Phil. Trams 1879 , pp. 589 , 590 .
Professor J. MILNE , " " Note on the Geographical Distribution of Volcanoes 'Geol .
Mag vol. 7 , 1880 , pp. 166-170 .
Professor J. D. DANA thus summarises the history of the Alleghany and other mountain-chains:\mdash ; " " First , a slow subsidence or geosynclinal . . . .
and , accompanying it , the deposition of sediments to a thickness equal to the depth of the subsidence ; finally , as a result of the subsidence , and as the climax in the effects of the pressure producing it , an epoch of plication , crushing , \amp ; c. , between the sides of the trough ' Phil. Mag vol. 46 , 1873 , p. 49 .

