1885 .
] Stimulation of the Tentacles of Drosera dichotoma .
229 conjectured that the molecule of hydrogen chloride is not broken down in its union with ammonia to form ammonium chloride .
Should this conjecture not be accepted as correct , it will be necessary to seek for an explanation of the phenomena observed by some relations yet to be discovered .
Y. " On the Phenomena accompanying Stimulation of the Gland-Cells in the Tentacles of Drosera dichotoma .
" By Walter Gardiner , M.A. , Fellow of Clare College , Cambridge , Demonstrator of Botany in the University .
Communicated by Professor M. FOSTER , Sec , B.b. Received September 5 , 1885 .
( Preliminary Communication .
) Method of Research.\#151 ; Pieces of unstimulated leaves , and of leaves stimulated for periods varying from 5 minutes to 72 hours , were examined fresh , or after treatment with alcohol , picric acid , chromic acid , or osmic acid .
The most satisfactory results were obtained from specimens treated for 12 hours with 1 and 2 per cent , chromic acid ; such strengths dissolving the tannin precipitate first formed , and fixing the structures most successfully .
The leaves were fed principally upon small flies or pieces of frog muscle , since these were found to succeed best .
.Heat stimuli , electrical stimuli , and stimulus produced by contact or cutting were also employed .
General Histology.\#151 ; As regards the general histology of the tentacles , one may notice that .the gland-cells of the head are provided with delicate uncuticularised cell-walls , which are remarkably pitted on their upper or free surfaces ; that the rest of the epidermal cells of the tentacles have their exterior walls excessively cuticularised and resistant , and that their radial longitudinal walls are freely pitted .
Structure of the Resting Gland-Cells.\#151 ; In the typical resting glandcell , the protoplasm is arranged in a network or reticulum .
The meshes of this reticulum are excessively close around the nucleus , which is situated at the base of the cell , but towards the free surface they are much more open ; , the close and more open arrangement merging the one into the other .
The meshwork extends through the whole of the cell cavity , and the interstices between the meshes are occupied by the pink cell sap ; the whole being bounded by the ectoplasm .
The gland-cells at the base of the head differ somewhat in structure from the more apical cells , as also do all the cells of the short stalked tentacles which are situated at the centre of the leaf .
In neither of the three layers of cells covering the tracheidal cells of the head could any obvious movement of the protoplasm be detected .
Mr. W. Gardiner .
On the Gland-Celle [ Nov. 19 , The epidermal cells of the stalk of the tentacles possess in the resting condition the following structure .
In each cell there is a lenticular nucleus , and chlorophyll grains are present on the side of the wall next the vascular bundle .
These structures are situated in the ectoplasm , and take no part in the movement of rotation .
In addition to these a body , which is usually spindle-shaped or acicular , is present in the cell , and generally occupies such a position that it stretches diagonally across the cell from end to end , the two extremities being embedded in the cell protoplasm .
I shall speak of this body at present as the plastoid , on* account of certain resemblances it bears as regards its microchemical reactions to plastids .
This name- may possibly , however , not be retained .
The plastoid is fixed to some extent by absolute alcohol or chromic acid .
With dilute alcohol it swells up and disappears .
With iodine it becomes disorganised and spherical .
It is best fixed by watery picric acid , and stains very readily and at once with Hofmann 's blue .
Iii the resting stage the plastoid takes no part in the movements of the rotating endoplasm .
It is present in all the epidermal cells of the leaf except the gland-cells and the cells immediately beneath the same , and in the bending portion of those tentacles which execute movements , it is very large in the cells of the convex , and very small or even apparently absent in those of the concave side .
In Dionaea it also occurs , being large in the cells of the upper surface of the leaf , and very small in those of the under .
The cells themselves of the under surface in Dionaea and of the concave side in Dicosera are also smaller than the others of the opposite side .
The protoplasm of the tentacle cells is very clear and hyaline , and the whole protoplasmic utricle is thin and closely pressed against the cell-wall .
Changes in the Gland-Cells during Secretion.\#151 ; The cells may be made to secrete by the combined stimulus of heat and moisture , by direct contact , or by electrical stimulus , but especially by the stimulus of food applied to the gland .
The histological changes which occur are the following .
After some time ( 24 hours ) a gland mounted in water exhibits a mottled appearance , such mottling being caused by a vacuolation of the most peripheral portions of the protoplasm of the gland-cells .
In section such a cell shows , that in the course of secretion there has been a using up of the cell contents , and instead of the meshwork occupying the whole of the peripheral portion of the cell , so as to give a fairly homogeneous appearance , large spherical cavities have appeared in the reticulum here and there : such cavities being occupied by the cell sap .
The sap has , moreiover , assumed a much darker pink tint .
Thus a breaking down or destruction of some part of the reticulum has taken place .
After some 72 hours ' stimulation this breaking down of the reticulum has reached to Such an extent that in the peripheral portion 1885 .
] in the Tentacles of Drosera dichotoma .
231 before referred to , all the central core of the meshwork has for the most part disappeared , and replacing it is a single large vacuole filled with cell sap .
The ectoplasm has moreover contracted from the upper or free surface of the cell-wall .
In no case does this destruction and consequent vacuolation extend to the base of the gland-cells where the nucleus is situated .
The nucleus is always surrounded by dense protoplasm ; and there are grounds for believing that after very long stimulation , ' when all the secretion has been poured out , and before absorption begins , , an active growth of protoplasm takes place around the nucleus and in the more basal portion of the cell .
In certain cases the secretion can be seen under the microscope to escape in drops\#151 ; apparently through the pitted portions of the cell-wall\#151 ; and the drops rapidly taking up watei and being forced outwards , assume a rod-like , form , and present a halo-like appearance around the gland .
This also occurs in the mucilage-secreting cells- of the bladders of Utricularia .
The exact part taken by the layer of cells beneath the gland-cells has yet to be determined .
After stimulation their vacuoles are occupied by large drops of cell sap , which is of a purple or even black colour .
The view here taken ( which is supported by certain of the staining reactions ) with regard to- secretion is , that in the gland-cells the mere peripheral network consists of protoplasm , together with some formed substance derived from it , and that the outpouring of the secretion is caused by the repeated breaking down ( owing to stimulation ) of the protoplasm into this formed substance , which is of a mucous nature , and which rapidly attracts water and so escapes , as the secretion to the external surface .
Changes in the Stalk Cells.\#151 ; The chief phenomena induced in the stalk cells either by contact by electrical stimulus or by feeding are , that the protoplasmic utricle swells up and encroaches on its own vacuole , that granules rapidly appear in the protoplasm , and that the movements of rotation increase in vigour .
Also the cell becomes less turgid , and after long stimulation the plastoid and the nucleus both tend to become spherical .
These changes are most markedly exhibited in tentacles stimulated with food. .
The protoplasm in swelling up abstracts water from its own vacuole , and in so doing leaves the tannin in the sap , in a comparatively concentrated condition .
I he outlines of the protoplasmic utricle are now rendered clearer than before .
As previously stated , the movements of rotation become quickened very considerably , and numerous waves with high crests appear on the surface of the protoplasmic utricle , and are well registered by the corresponding disturbances in the cell sap .
I he phenomenon of the protoplasmic waves breaking over the nucleus with crests reaching nearly across the vacuole is very remarkable .
I be long and narrow shape of the cells , and the combined swelling of the 232 Mr. W. Gardiner .
Gland-Cells [ Nov. 19 , protoplasm , increase of rale of rotation and wave movements , cause the cell sap to be so disturbed , and as it were churned up , that drops of the sap become cut off from the main mass , and at last the whole of the sap is separated into numerous distinct portions which are suspended in the protoplasm as oily drops , and are carried round in the currents , presenting the appearance of moving droplets , pear-shaped bodies , and long string-like processes .
The cell in this condition was known to Darwin as " aggregated .
" When movement ceases , as often naturally occurs , owing to excessive secretion , or can be induced by suddenly crushing the tentacle head , the variously shaped masses become spherical , and lie quiescent in the protoplasm .
The aggregation produced by the action of ammonic carbonate is somewhat different from that brought about by feeding , and may be spoken of as passive as opposed to active aggregation .
In this case the protoplasm abstracts water from the vacuole in the usual way , and , steadily swelliug , .chops up the tannin-loaded sap of the long and narrow cells into separate globules .
The rotatory movements cause these globules to alter their iorm , but the .movements in question are nothing like so vigorous us in the food-stimulated gland , and the globules are rarely , if ever , carried bodily about .
When the protoplasm swells and the cell becomes aggregated , the latter always loses its iurgidity , and the state of aggregation is accompanied by a loss of water .
Injection of water into the tissue will at once stop aggregation and restore the cell to its normal condition .
Sometimes after active secretion ( 48 hours ) , the movements of the protoplasm of the topmost tentacle stalkvcells will stop , and much o\#163 ; the protoplasm of each cell now collects .to the end of the cell nearest the gland .
Mounting in water will then restore the movements .
It was found experimentally that the collecting of the protoplasm to one end was occasioned by the upward passage of water to the gland .
If a passage of water be set up in an opposite direction , then the protoplasm collects to the opposite end .
When the more rapid movements of the protoplasm commence owing to stimulation , the plastoid usually becomes bent , and then either contracts and assumes a lenticular form , or becomes separated into two or more pieces each of which becomes lenticular .
Later on further contraction ensues , and the plastoid is.carried round the cell in the protoplasmic stream .
The more the cells lose their turgidity , the more does the plastoid tend to assume a spherical form .
Its spindle-shaped elongated form may , however , be restored by again bringing about turgidity , e.g. , by injection of water into the tissue .
Thus the plastoid may be regarded as a turgometer , since it indicates the state of turgidity of the cell .
On account of certain experiments and observations the author is led to believe that all differences of turgidity in cells are brought about by the protoplasm swelling and 1885 .
] \#171 ; n the Tentacles of Drosera dichotoma .
233 becoming porous , and that the method of establishing a loss of turgidity by solutions of neutral salts and the like involves a state of things essentially different from that which normally occurs .
In the one case the protoplasm itself undergoes change .
In the other the cell sap is violently abstracted by artificial means from the vacuole of a protoplasmic utricle which is endeavouring to protect itself from the action of the reagent .
Movements of the tentacles may be brought about by direct contact and by cutting or injury , -by eleatric stimulus , by the addition or withdrawal of water , and especially by the stimulus of food .
In all these cases the -stimulant upsets dhe existing equilibrium and brings about a difference of turgidity on the'two opposite sides .
Loss of water by plasmolysis usually induces movement , unless the salts employed have a specific action upon the protoplasm .
Movement may occur without aggregation , and secretion may occur without movement , but whenever well-defined aggregation takes place , movement always follows .
Different strengths of the same reagent may bring about different reactions .
Thus a OT per cent , solution of chromic acid causes both movement and secretion , while with a l or 2 per cent , solution neither phenomenon occurs .
Among the curious effects of various salt solutions that of ammonic chloride may be noted , in that it acts markedly as a sedative , toning down aggregation and restoring turgidity .
It was very generally noticed that the tentacles before becoming inflected , moved downwards and backwards , and that the upward and inflected movement subsequently took place .
When a tentacle has become well inflected it can be observed that at the bending point the cells of the convex side are very turgid , with their plastoids spindle shaped , and that little or no aggregation has taken place , while in the cells of the concave side , on the other hand , there is well-marked aggregation and loss of turgidity ; the aggregation after a time extends to the convex side , the cells of which , in their turn , lose their turgidity , and at this stage all the cells are flaccid .
Later on the cells of the concave side first regain their turgidity , and now the tentacle is bent back to its original position before stimulation .
From certain observations on Dionsea and Mimosa , the author is led to believe that there also movement is made possible by the establishing of sudden and different conditions of turgidity of different cells , such differences being occasioned by the induced porosity of the protoplasm of certain of these cells .
These phenomena occur perhaps in all cases of movement .
The plastoid markedly decreases in size after long stimulation in both Dionaea and Drosera .
There are therefore some grounds for believing that it consists mainly of some reserve material or some substance which is used up during secretion .
Whether the crystalloids in the nucleus of Pinguicula serve a similar purpose remains to 234 Mr. J. N. Langley .
Variations of [ Nov. 19 , be seen ; for at any rate a plastoid is not present .
A somewhat casual examination was also made of many organs of movement , but in them no plastoid was observed .
In Drosera rotundifolia and other species plastoids occur which resemble those of Drosera , Strong single induction shocks or tetanising currents cause the plastoid to assume the spherical condition , or very frequently to .
break up into a string of small spheres .
A sudden blow on the cover slip also causes the assumption of the ' spherical form .
Moderately strong tetanising shocks cause swelling of the protoplasm , and increase of rapidity of movement and granularity. .
Very strong shocks may cause the contraction of the primordial utricle from the cell-wall at- certain small areas , but immediate death , always ensues , since the stimulus required is abnormally great. .
The normal effect of a regulated stimulus is to induce a swelling of the protoplasm , and a loss of turgidity , and in consequence of the unequal reaction of the various cells to- such a stimulus , movement of the tentacle also occurs .
[ Note.\#151 ; I have decided to name the-body which I have provisionally spoken of as the plhstoid " the rabdoid " ( Gk .
rabdos , a stick or wand ) .
The change in form of the rabdoid appears to be- a consequence of the molecular changes in the protoplasm , differences of turgidity are among the results of these changes.\#151 ; Nov. .
28 , 1885 .
] VI .
" On Variations in the Amount and Distribution , of Fat in the Liver-Cells of the Frog .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A. , F.R.S. , Lecturer on Histology in the University of Cambridge .
Received September 23 , 1.885 .
I have in a previous paper* mentioned some of the changes which occur in certain circumstances in .
the number and arrangement of the fat-globules in the liver-cells of the frog .
Erom .
observations made since that time at different seasons of the year , I have been able to ascertain certain points undetermined in the previous account .
Variations in the Amount and Distribution of Fat with the time of Year.\#151 ; The fat in the liver-cells is at its maximum amount in February and March .
In January it is , , as a rule , somewhat less .
In April it rapidly decreases ; from May until December it is present in comparatively small though varying amount .
It is usually present in minimum amount in September and October .
Generally speaking , the fat-globules form an inner zone in frogs which have hungered more than a week .
In January , February , and March , however , the fat-globules are commonly more numerous in the outer part of the cells , often forming a distinct outer zone .
* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 34 , p. 20 ,

