XVII .
Some account of the transit instrument made by Mr. DOLLOND , and lately put up at the Cambridge Observatory .
Communicated April 13 , 1825 .
By ROBERT WOODHOUSE , A.M. F.R.S. Read May 19 , 1825 .
As I am inclined to hope that the observations to be made at the Observatory lately established at Cambridge may , at some future period , be useful to astronomical science , I beg leave to send a brief description of our transit telescope , the only large instrument which we are at present possessed of .
The annexed drawings , which I have caused to be made of the instrument , will explain its construction .
Its dimensions are nearly the same as those of the Greenwich transit made by Mr. TROUGHTON .
Ft. In .
Its focal length is 9 o1 Its aperture 5 The length of the axis between the piers 36 The weight of the instrument is 2oolbs .
The instrument is counterpoised ; and the whole lengths ( inches ) of the pivots rest on the Y s. Seven fixed wires are placed in the focus of the object glass , and two other wires moveable by a micrometer screw ; the interval of which wires is equal to the interval between , any two of the fixed wires , and , equatorially , is 1 7.88 .
The two small graduated circles ( see the figure ) with their spirit levels , fixed near to the eye-piece , are for the purpose of finding a star 's place in the meridian .
Each circle is furnished with two verniers ; one for polar , the other for zenith distances .
I wish to add a few words respecting the determining the place of the transit room , and the adjusting the instrument to the plane of the meridian ; which , as we had in the beginning no astronomical point to stand on , was a matter of some trouble .
Our first object was , if possible , so to fix the site of the transit room , that its meridian mark might be placed on the steeple of Granchester church , distant to the south about 29 miles from the field on which the observatory was to be built .
The first approximations to such site were made by adjusting the middle wire of a small transit telescope ( 18 inches long ) to the spire , or iron rod of the steeple , and by comparing the sun 's transit with the time brought up by chronometers from Mr. CATTON'S observatory at St. John 's College .
Our second approximations were made by observations of high and low stars with the small transit instrument above mentioned .
According to the results thus obtained the piers of the transit were placed ; and when , in June 1824 , the instrument was put upon them , were found to be placed with considerable exactness .
From the above time observations have been constantly made with the instruments described in this paper , and with a clock made by MOLYNEUX and COPE .
The first operation was to determine the clock 's rate , which was done by observations of the same stars on successive days : the next , :to determine the clock 's error , which was found in the usual way , by deducting the observed M.DCCCXXV .
sI 419 passages of stars from their tabulated , or computed right ascensions .
The clock 's error , as it was to be expected , was found , after allowing for its rate , different with different stars ; which is a sign of the instrument being out of adjustment in some of its parts .
The error might be in the line of collimation ; in the axis not being horizontal ; or , which was probably the chief cause of error , in the transit deviating from the plane of the meridian .
Any one , or two , or all of these circumstances might occasion the noted difference in the clock 's errors .
For instance , the clock being before sidereal time , its error from O Cygni was found to be less than from a Aquilae .
This might arise from the western end of the axis being too high , or from the line of collimation deviating to the east , or from the transit deviating to the west .
A single observation such as this , or any number of the same stars , would leave us in doubt respecting the causes of the want of adjustment ; but a third star would lessen this doubt .
Thus , if , the clock 's error after allowing for its rate being from x Cygni '.72 : , and from a Aquilae 4s.854 , we attributed the difference of errors to a defect of horizontality in the axis , the quantity of such defect would become known .
Let it be expressed by H , the clock 's error by e ; then for the latitude of Cambridge we should have two simple equations between H and e , from which both may be found 4.721 + ?
= 1.39 H , a Cygni -4.854 +e =.75 H , a Aquilae ; and , accordingly , H= os.2 , nearly .
With this value of H , the error of time for a Urs .
maj .
420 would be o0q4288 ( = o0.2 x 2144 ) ; which not being found to agree with the observed error ( or rather the difference of its observed passage and its computed right ascension ) , showed that the difference of the errors of the clock had been wrongly , or partially , assigned .
If we suppose the difference of the errors of the clock to arise from two causes the want of horizontality and the deviation of the transit from the plane of the meridian , then , calling the latter deviation H , we have , instead of the former , these equations : --4.721 += 1.39 H +.185 Z -4.854 += 73 H +.7Z to which a third similar equation must be added for a Urs .
maj If from such three equations we determined H and Z , we might proceed as before , and examine , by means of a fourth star , whether it were necessary to suppose the existence of a third cause ( an error in the line of collimation for instance ) to account for the differences in the clock 's error .
If C should denote the error of collimation , dt the error of time , c the colatitude of the place of observation , n the star 's north polar distance , the general form of the equations for determining H , Z , &amp;c. is -dt + s= H COs25 +Z si .
( c +C --dst+T=fH ~i * sin + sin. + In this way we might consider the subject in all its generality ( as foreign writers express themselves ) ; and from observations alone , arrive at a knowledge of the defects of the instrument .
And this mode of considering the subject is not without its use , since it may be applied to recorded and ancient observations as BEsSEL has done in the case of BRADLEY'S Observations .
But no practical astronomer , I apprehend , can be so fond of encountering difficulties , * as to adopt this mode of adjusting his instrument ; for , if from one set of equations he deduced the values of H , Z and C , he could not , by reason of his imperfect knowledge and management of the screws of his instrument , at once adjust it ; but would be again and again obliged to repeat his observations , and the solutions of the resulting equations .
But this is not all .
The differences of the clock 's errors are the differences of the differences of the observed culminations of stars , and their tabulated or computed right ascensions , and therefore must partake of the uncertainties to which the latter quantities are subject .
The point to be aimed at in adjusting an instrument is , to adjust it by means that do not rest on the results of astronomical science .
The old methods of adjusting a transit instrument do not rest on such results ; and the old method of proceeding seems to me the most sensible one , that of separately and successively correcting each cause of defective adjustment .
The axis can be made horizontal , or its defect of horizontality known , by the level , the plumb line , or by reflection .
The line of collimationcanbe adjusted by means of a small object in , or near to , the horizon .
In this operation a small defect in the horizontality of the axis will have scarcely any effect on the accuracy of the operation .
If the mark should , for instance , be 2o above the horizon , and one end of the axis 5 " higher than the other , the error in collimating from that cause would , in the latitude of Cambridge , be only o " .
o75 .
The error in the same operation with the pole star , supposing it be fixed , would be i ' 1"5 .
The third adjustment , which is the most troublesome , is to place the transit instrument in the plane of the meridian ; and there are two methods of effecting this : one , by high and low stars ; the other , by circumpolar stars , or , as it almost always happens in practice , by the pole star .
The essential difference in these two methods is , that the former rests on the results of astronomical science , whilst the latter does not so rest ; and this circumstance gives the latter a decided advantage over the former , when it is necessary to make a nice adjustment .
Yet there is not wanting considerable astronomical authority for placing the two methods on a level , the one with the other .
Baron de ZACH , for instance , views each as an equally good method ; and in his Tabulae speciales Aberrs .
et Nuts .
gives instances of the adjustment of a transit instrument ( a 5-feet one by DOLLOND ) ; the first , by the comparison of the passages over the meridian of A49 , S Capella and Rigel ; the second , by the passages of Capella above and below the pole : and the result , equal to a deviation of 1".685 to the east , is in each case the same : a coincidence of marvellous accuracy ; and which , if the observations were exactly noted , we must suppose to have arisen from a fortuitous balancing of the errors of the observations with those of the tables .
In the method of high and low stars I suppose , which is almost always the case , that the clock 's error is found by subtracting from the observed passage of the star its computed right ascension .
The error may indeed be found by equal altitudes , should the observer possess an altitude and azimuth instrument of sufficient accuracy for that purpose .
But should he not , the adjustment of the transit instrument by high and low stars must partake of that uncertainty to which we are subject in computing the true apparent right ascensions of stars .
We have only to look at the catalogues of stars by different astronomers to be convinced of the existence of such uncertainty .
If , indeed , the tabulated right ascensions differed only by a constant quantity , the dyference of the errors of the clock , on which the method of high and low stars depends , would be the same , whether we employed BESSEL'S or the Greenwich catalogue .
But it is otherwise : to instance this , on the sth October , 1824 , the clock going very nearly sidereal time , the passages of Arcturus and A Urs .
mini .
were as follow : R by TimebyClock .
A by N.A. Error AHER Error .
S A Error .
u. Ir"r ?
-------I-I.----rrr-~ h. m. s. s. s. Arcturus 14 7 44.56 40.18 4.38 39.98 4.58 Ursm .
in .
14 51 20.43 ' 14.67 5.76 1 4.95 5.48 Hence for determining the deviations of the transit instrument we have , respectively , the following equations : By Nautical Almanac .
-4.38 +e=.5657 Z , Z =l1.5 5.77 -1.48 Z By SCHUrMAcHER 's Tables .
-4.58 +.5657 Z , Z -o'.98 .
5 .
481.8 Z The value of the deviation ( Z ) is uncertain then to the amount , and more , of half a second of time .
From such kind of uncertainty , the method of circumpolar stars is entirely free ; its characteristic excellence , as it has been already said , consists in its being independent of the results of astronomical science .
In what I have said , I must be supposed to speak of the exact adjustment of large instruments .
The method of high and low stars is very convenient , and easily practised : it informs us , in the space of a few hours , of the nature and degree of the deviation of the instrument ; and in some cases , when the transit instrument is prevented by its situation from being directed to stars beneath the pole , it is almost an indispensable method .
I wish to add a few words respecting the adjustment of the line of collimation by means of the reversion of the transit instrument during the passage of the pole star .
This method has indeed the air of being philosophical ; but , according to my opinion , is neither so easily practised , nor so certain as the old method .
It is liable to the uncertainty of the times of the pole star 's passages over the wires ; and always requires , before and after the observation , the examination of 425 en the horizontality of the axis .
Without attention to this latter circumstance the method is worth nothing ; for , if H should be the error in horizontality , the corresponding error in time would , in the latitude of Cambridge , be equal to about 28.6 H. When we adjust according to the old plan , the collimation by means of an object near the horizon , the operation of levelling is not required ; which in large instruments is rather a troublesome one ; and certainly is not , what M. DELAMBRE states it to be , " the affair of an instant."* The level indicating the degree of the defect of horizontality , enables us to correct the time ; t and this correction is made on the supposition that the instrument is in the same state when the star is observed , as it was during its examination by the level .
It is therefore , other things being equal , expedient to examine by the level , as nearly as it is possible , at the time of observation .
But this I am unable to do ; as I will show , by stating a circumstance rather deserving of attention .
The tube of the telescope is braced to the axis ( see the figure ) by four tubes .
The stations of the two persons who level are opposite , and cotiguous to the southwest and north-east braces .
Being in the constant habit of examining the meridian mark , in order to know what degree of stability the instrument possesses , I found , after levelling , that the south meridian mark was to the east of the middle wire .
In about to minutes the middle wire returned to the meridian mark , and bisected it .
I noted this circumstance a second , third , and fourth time , and then began to inquire whether I had conjectured rightly in attributing it to the expansion of the tubes or braces .
For this end , I placed a heated blanket across the south-west and north-east braces , and found the meridian mark deviating to the east of the middle wire : a contrary effect was produced by placing the blanket across the south-east and north-west braces .
In these trials the object glass was towards the south : contrary effects took place when it was turned to the north.* As yet I am unable to say whether or not the sun 's rays falling on the braces , during an observation of his transit , affect the accuracy of the observation .
I am enquiring into that point , and have ordered a screen to be made to protect the braces from the rays of the sun .
After repeated trials , I have been obliged to abandon the counterpoises ; t instead of relieving the instrument , they render it unsteady .
It has happened with them ( as it has happened in cases of a different nature ) , they have overpowered what they were meant only to assist .
My chief study , since the fixing up of the instrument , has been to obtain a thorough knowledge of it : to find out its defects , should it have any , their nature and degree .
The observations of stars have been chiefly made for , and have served that end ; but they are not , I think , otherwise useful , nor worth registering .
El7vatlu)I fc 're / harft C ' &gt; / etf'ic ( / / / Si/ Y. Scale , Z ntsf 1.(1 f / a i i. 0 '"-- ' , 020I po oqIi io 1i t1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Tiet p/ t7-7.she , ile T at i7aire .
Sction , { '/ i(c/ )U71 tia7 tJhew/ 1'1 mI ' c/ c aI _I El'z va &amp; l ti , r/ ' f oit zt~ ih/ , , .
with tf M !
pla ' 6 .
a- ' ded2 , , .

