447 18S3 .
] On the Skeleton of the M Fishes .
The permeability of the system is then deduced from the comparison 0f resistances in the air space of the core of the solenoid , and in the air spaces which form the breaks in the magnetic circuit .
The coefficient of electromagnetic momentum is then , by means of known equivalents , expressed in terms of the permeability of the system , and thence , according to the above result , in terms of the configuration of the breaks in the magnetic circuit .
A method is then developed of calculating the coefficient of electromagnetic momentum from the observed mean current during the excitation of a tuning fork of known period .
A , .
, Four experiments of this description were made , and the value ot the terms depending on the configuration of the air spaces analysed and interpreted in connexion with the numerical results thus obtained .
In this manner I was led to distinguish two theoretical cases which were connected by an empirical configuration formula , bridging over the gap between them .
The experiments in question agree with the configuration formula to a degree far beyond what could have been anticipated , considering the roughness of the methods employed for the determination of the several elements concerned .
The result is , that in a certain class of electromagnetic systems , when the configuration is given , the permeability and coefficient of electromagnetic momentum can be approximately assigned , and the whole electromagnetic behaviour of the system approximately calcuWith this theory at my disposal I hope to make further contributions to the knowledge of electromagnetic tuning forks .
II " On the Skeleton of the Marsipobranch Fishes .
Part II .
The Lamprey .
" By W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received January 10 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In working out this type I have been greatly indebted to the labours of J. Muller , Huxley , Schneider , Balfour , and Scott .
For materials I am indebted to two of the above-mentioned anatomists , namely .
Professor Huxley and the late Professor Balfour , also to Surgeon-Major Francis Day , of Cheltenham , and Osbert Salvm , ^The^transformed skeleton is described in various young individuals of the Sea Lamprey ( Petromyzon ma ) , from four to eight or nine inches in length .
The smallest of these was scarcely through its metamorphosis .
A specimen of P. planesi was worked out at the same 448 On the Skeleton of the Fishes .
[ Jan. 18 , stage .
The various sections of the adult were made from the larger river species , P. fluviatilis , so also were the various larval specimens * but the embryos were of the small kind\#151 ; P. planesi .
These were reared by Messrs. Salvin and Balfour .
I have first described the skeletal structures after metamorphosis , as their condition then is best known to anatomists .
I then explain what is seen in the embryo , and after this the larval or stage .
If my friends are successful in obtaining for me larval Lampreys actually transforming , a Third Part , a muck smaller paper , will be prepared .
In spite of the invaluable help I have received from my fellow-workers , my task has not been an easy one ; it has been taken up again and again , after research into the development of other fishy types .
The suctorial mouth has its highest development in the Lamprey ; in the Myxinoids ( Mywine and Bdell ) there is no circular disk with horny teeth , but merely an oral fissure , surrounded by barbels , and having inside it a huge tongue beset with two oblique rows of recurved and inturned horny teeth , antagonised by a single ethmoidal tooth .
In the larva of the Lamprey the mouth is not circular , and the lower lip is far back , covered by the upper , which is like a hood ; there are no teeth of any kind , only moss-like " barbels " or papillce under the upper lip .
In the Tadpole the mouth is suctorial , the lower lip being converted into an imperfect ring , which is completed by the upper lip .
Here the cartilage of the lower lip is not a perfect ring , as in the Lamprey , but is in two parts , and is formed into a sort of horseshoe .
Inside this compound ring there are sharp horny plates or teeth , and the folds of the lips , all round the mouth , ar6 covered with a horny rasp .
Correlated with the perfectly suctorial lower lip of the Lamprey , which is \amp ; post-oral structure entirely , we have the most perfect form of the superficial branchial skeleton , a basket-work of soft cartilage , which appears in the early embryo , and only gains enlargement , fore and aft , with all its snags and outgrowths , after metamorphosis .
Besides this there are no rudiments of internal branchial arches , such as we find in the Tadpole .
The only parts developed inside the head-cavities and branchial arches are the generalised and rudimentary mandibular and hyoid arches .
In the Tadpole there is no to the hyoid arch , and the first cleft is arrested as a small blind pouch ; this state is persistent in the Lamprey .
But , after metamorphosis\#151 ; the lingering latter part of that profound change of structure\#151 ; the young Prog and Toad acquire a pier to their hyoid arch , right and left .
This , however , does not become functional to the arch , much less assist in supporting the mandible , as a " hyomandibular , " but is transformed into an osseo-cartilaginous chain\#151 ; a stapedio-incudal 1883.J On the Infectivity of the Blood and other Fluids .
449 series , specialised correctively with the expanded rudiment of the first cleft , now enlarged into a with a large " Eustachian " opening .
The little mandibles of the Tadpole , which served as arms to carry the divided suctorial disk , and lay across the fore face , become very long , and are often hinged on to their pier behind the occiput , and the cartilages of the suctorial disk straighten out and add to the length of the lower jaw in front .
These things show how this temporary " Petromyzoid , " the Tadpole , blossoms out into unthought-of specialisations , and becomes a quasi-reptile , worthy of a place far above the Lamprey , and even far above all other Ichthyopsida .
The Myxinoids never gain the level ( or platform ) of the adult Lamprey or the larval Frog ; they acquire no rudiments of vertebrae __only a huge notochord\#151 ; uniform or non-segmented .
But then their lingual teeth , rudimentary in the Lamprey , and not present in the Tadpole , are very large , and have a large buccal skeleton of their own They have no extra-branchial basket-work , but do develop at least four visceral arches , the hyoid ( or second ) being very large and perfect , but not segmented as in higher fishes .
Everything is in a generalised state .
But the first arch has no lower jaw developed on it , its loiver part is arrested , and the two or three proper gill-arches are dissociated from the gill-pouches , which are carried far back , under the spine .
I must refer to the main paper ( Parts I and II ) for details , but I feel sure that every morphologist will agree with me when I assert that these three related , but widely separated groups\#151 ; the Myxinoids , Petromyzoids , and Anura , are worthy of all the attention that anatomists have given to them , and that if ever we come to see how the Yertebrata have arisen , during time , from chordate forms on a lower platform , we shall have to question and cross-question these Marsipobranchs\#151 ; not once nor twice , but many times .
For myself , I shall be grateful if this limited contribution to the anatomy of the Marsipobranch fishes should draw the attention of other workers , and attract them to this fruitful field of research .
III .
" On the Infectivity of the Blood and other Fluids in some * Forms of Septic Disease , and the reputed occurrence therein of an Increase of Virulence in Successive Inoculations .
By G- .
F. Dowdeswell , M.A. ( Cantab .
) , F.L.S. , F.C.S. , \amp ; c. Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received January 15 , 1883 .
The remarkable fact that in some cases the blood of an animal , intoxicated with putrid matter , becomes itself " infective , " capable of

