]\gt ; Physiological Investigations with Petiole-Pulvinus Mimosa pudica .
By Prof. J. C. BOSE , M.A. , D.Sc .
, C.S.I. , C.I.E. , assisted by CHANDRA DAS , M.A. ( Communicated by Prof. S. H. Vines , F.R.S. Received November 25 , ( From the Bio-physics Laboratory , Calcutta .
) The essential similarity in the responsive reactions of plants and animals which has been demonstrated in my previous works*leads us to expect that the study of the simpler phenomena of irritability in the vegetal organism may help in the elucidation of the more complex physiological reactions of the animal .
New methods of investigation found successful in the case of plants may , moreover , to be ] applicable to the study of reactions in animal tissues .
This anticipation has been fully justified , since it was my previous discovery of a method of variation in the power of etable tissues that led me to the discovery of a similar means of control of the excitatory impulse in the animal nerve .
My investigations on plant-irritability have hitherto been carried out with entire plants .
The most suitable plant for these researches is Iilimosa which can be obtained in all parts of the world .
An impression unfortunately prevails that the excitatory reaction of this plant can be obtained only in summer and under very favourable circumstances , which militated against its extensive use in physiological experiments , but this misgiving is without any foundation , for I found no difficulty in demonstrating even the most delicate experiments on Mimosa before the Meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science held last Christmas at Philadelphia .
The prevailing outside temperature at the time was considerably below the freezing point .
With foresight and care it should not be at all difficult to maintain in a hot-house a large umber of these plants in a sensitive condition all the year round .
*Bose , 'Plant Response , ' 1906 ( Longmans , Green , \amp ; Co. ) ; ative Electrophysiology , ' 1907 ( Longmans , Green , \amp ; Co. ) ; Resealches on Irritability of Plants , ' 1913 ( Longmans , Green , \amp ; Co. ) ; " " An Automatic Method for Investigation of Velocity of Transmission of Excitation in Mimosa ' Phil. Trans , vol. 204 1913 ) .
' ' The Influence of Homodromous and Electric Currents on Transmission of Excitation in Plam and Animal ' Roy .
Soc. PIOC 1915 .
preparation of a .
On the success of this attempt depended the practical opening out of an extended field of physiological investigation which would be unhampered by any scarcity of experimental material .
In connection with this it is well to note the surprising difference in vegetative growth as exhibited by plants grown in soil and in pots .
pot-specimen of }fimosa produces relatively few leaves , but one grown in the open ground is extremely luxuriant .
As an instance in point , I may state that for the last five months I have taken from a plant grown in a field about 20leaves a day for experiment , without making any impression on it .
A large box containing soil would be practically as good as the open ground , and the slower rate of growth in a colder climate could be easily made up by planting half a dozen specimens .
The protection of the plants from inclemencies of weather can be ensured by means of a glass cover with simple heat-regulation by electric lamps , in place of an expensive greenhouse .
Returning to the question of the employment of an isolated leaf , which I shall designate as a petiole-pulvinus preparation , instead of the entire .
plant , the first attempts which I made proved unsuccessful .
The cut leaf kept in water would sometimes exhibit very feeble response , at other times all signs of excitability appeared to be totally abolished .
It was impossible to attempt an investigation on the effect of changing environment on excitability when the normal sensitiveness itself underwent so capricious a change .
These difficulties were ultimately oyercome from knowledge derived sugh systematic ations on the relative importance of the different parts of the motor apparatus , on the immediate and after-effect of section on the excitability of the leaf , and on the rate of decay of this excitability on isolation from the plant .
The experience thus gained enabled me to secure long-continued and uniform sensibility under normal conditions .
It was thus possible to study the physiological effects of changing external conditions by observing the responsive variation in the isolated petiolepulvinus preparation .
I propose in this paper to deal with the different aspects of the investigation in the order : Petiole-Pulvinus Preparations of Mimosa pudica .
1 .
The eflect of wound or section in modification of normal excitability .
2 .
The change of excitability after immersion in water .
3 .
Quantitative determination of the rate of decay of excitabilit .
in an isolated preparation .
4 .
Effect of amputation of the upper half of pulvinus .
5 .
Effect of removal of the lower half .
6 .
Influence of the weight of leaf on rapidity of responsive fall .
7 .
The action of chemical agents .
8 .
Effect of\ldquo ; fatigue\ldquo ; on response .
9 .
The influence of constant electric current on recovery .
10 .
The action of light and darkness on excitability .
11 .
Effect of desiccation and of injury on conducting tissues .
The isolated petiole-pulvinus preparation is made by cutting out a portion of the stem bearing a single lateral leaf .
The four diverging sub-petioles may also be cut off .
In order to prevent rapid drying , the specimen has to be kept in water .
Preparations made in this way often appeared to have lost their sensibility : I was , however , able to trace this loss to two different factors : first , to the physiological depression due to injury caused by section , and , second , to the sudden increase of turgor brought on by excessive absorption of water .
I shall now proceed to show that the loss of sensibility is not permanent , but is capable restoration .
1 .
Effect of or Section in of Normal In connection with the question of effect of injury , it is to be borne in mind that after each excitation the plant becomes temporal.ily irresponsive and that the excitability is fully restored after the completion of protoplasmic recovery .
A cut or a section acts as a very intense stimulus , from the effect of which the recovery is very slow .
If the stem be cut very near the leaf , the excitation of the pulvinus is very intense , and the consequent .
loss of excitability becomes more or less persistent .
But if the stem be cut at a greater distance , the transmitted excitation is less intense , and the cut specimen recovers its excitability within a moderate time .
I have also succeeded in reducing the excitatory depression by previously benumbing the tissue by physiological means .
Thfl isolated ecimen can be made still more compact by cutting off the sub-petioles bearing the leaflets ; the preparation now consists of a short of stem of about 2 cm .
and an equally short length of primary petiole , the llotile pulvinus at the junction of the two .
For the restoration of sensitiveness , and to meet conditions , the FIG. 1.\mdash ; The Resonant Recorder , with ] inus preparation .
( From a photograpl condition .
A ) thus made is insensitive at the beginning , but if left undisturbed it slowly recovers its excitability .
The history of the depression of excitability after shock of preparation and its gradual restora tion is graphically illustrated by a series of records made by the plaut ( fig. 3 ) .
The petiole-pulvinus preparation thus made offers all facilities for experiment .
Owing to its small size it can be easily manipulated ; it can be Petiole-Pulvinus of Mimosa pudica .
enclosed in a small chamber subjected to varying conditions of temperature and to the action of different vapours and gases .
Drugs are easily absorbed at the cut end , and a poison and its antidote can be successively applied through the funnel without any disturbance of the continuity of record .
In fact , many experiments which would be impossible with the entire plant are quite practicable with the isolated leaf .
The arrangement for taking records of response is seen in fig. 1 , which is reproduced from a photograph of the actual apparatus .
For recording the response and recovery of the leaf uuder stimulation , I use my Resonant Recorder fully described in the ' Philosophical Transactions.'* The petiole is attached to one arm of the horizontal lever .
The writer , made of fine steel wire with a bent tip , is at right angles to the lever , and is maintained by electromagnetic means in a state of to-and-fro vibration , say , ten times in a second .
The record , consisting of a series of dots , is free from errors arising from friction of continuous contact of the writer with the recording surface .
The successive dots in the record at definite intervals of a tenth of a second also give the time-relations of the response-curve .
On account of its small size , the petiole-pulvinus preparation offers great facilities for mounting in different ways suitable for special investigations ( fig. 2 ) .
Ordinarily the cut stem with its lower end enclosed in moist cloth ( a ) ( b ) ( c ) FIG. -pulvinus preparation : ( a ) normal position ; ( b ) inverted position ; ( c ) " " wagging\ldquo ; of stem .
is supported below as in .
A very suitable form of stimulus is that of induction shock from a secondary coil , the intensity of which is capable of variation in the usual manner by adjusting the distance between the primary and the secondary coils .
The motile pulvinus , , may be excited directly by applying the electrodes at and E For investigations on velocity of transmission of excitation , stimulus is applied indirectly by means of the electrodes at and .
Excitation is now transmitted along the *Ibid .
VOL. LXXXIX .
\mdash ; B. of the plant or the stem " " wagging\ldquo ; in response to excitation .
In ( c ) the more excitable lower half of the pulvinus is to the left , and under excitation the stem at the left side undergoes a fall , while that on the right is erected .
I It will be seen how , by having the two lengths of the stem equal , the action of gravity is neutralised .
2 .
The Change of Excitability after Immersion in Water .
The isolated specimen can be kept alive for several days immersed in water .
The excitability of the pulvinus , however , undergoes great depression , or even abolition , by the sudden change turgor brought on by excessive absorption of water .
The plant gradually accommodates itself to the changed condition , and the excitability is restored in a staircase manner from zero to a maximum .
In studying the action of a chemical solution on excitability , the solution may be applied through the cut end or directly on the pulvinus .
The sudden variation of turgor , due to the liquid , always induces a depression , irrespective of the stimulating or the depressing action of the drug .
The difficulty may be eliminated by previous long-continued application of water on the pulvinus and waiting till the attainment of uniform excitability which generally takes place in the course of about three hours .
Subsequent application of a chemical solution gives rise to characteristic variation in the response .
' 3 .
Quantitative Determination of the Rate of Decay of bility an Isolated Preparation .
In order to test the history of the change of excitability resulting from the immediate and after-effect of section , I took an intact plant and fixed the upper half of the stem in a clamp .
The response of a given leaf was now taken to the stimulus of an induction shock of unit intensity , the unit chosen being that which causes a bare perception of shock in a human being .
Petiote-Pulvimrs Preparations of Mimosa pudica .
The specimen was vigorous and the response obtained was found to be a maximum .
The stem bearing the leaf was cut at the moment marked in the record with a cross , and water was applied at the cut end .
The effect of section was to cause the maximum fall of the leaf , with subsequent recovery .
After this , successive responses to uniform stimuli at intervals of 15 minutes show , in of fig. 3 , that a depression of excitability has been induced FIG. 3.\mdash ; Variation of excitability after section .
) Immediate effect ; ( 2 ) variation of excitability in a second specimen during 60 hours : ( a ) response4 hours after section ; ( b ) after 24 hours ; ( c ) after 49 hours .
to the shock caused by section .
In course of an hour , however , the excitability had been restored almost to its original before the section .
This was the case with a vigorous specimen , but with less vigorous ones a longer period of about three hours is required for restoration .
In certain other cases the response after section exhibits alternate fatigue ; that is to sa .
one response is large and the next feeble , and this alternation goes on for a length of time .
The isolated specimen , general]y speaking , attains a uniform sensibility after a few hours , which is maintained , with very slight decline under constant external conditions , for about 24 hours .
On the third day the fall of excitability is very rapid , and the sensibility declines to zero in about 50 hours after isolation ( fig. 3 ( 2 ) ) .
We may describe the whole cycle of change as follows : by the shock of operation the isolated preparation is The determination of the played by different parts of the pulvinus in ] response and recovery is of much theoretical importance .
Our knowledge on this subject is unfortunately very scanty .
The generally accepted view is that on excitation " " the actual downward curvature of the pulvinus is partly due to a contraction of the walls of the motor cells consequent upon the decrease of turgor , but is accentuated by expansion of the insensitive adaxial half of the pulvinus\mdash ; which was strongly compressed in the lated condition of the organ\mdash ; and also by the weight of the leaf.\ldquo ; * According to Pfeffer , after excitation of the organ , " " the original condition of turgor is gradually reproduced in the lower half of the pulvinus , which expands , raising the leaf and producing compression of the upper half of the pulvinus , which aids in the rapid curvature of the stimulated pulvinus.\ldquo ; FIG. 4.\mdash ; Effect of amputation of upper half of pulvinus .
( l ) Normal response before amputation ; ( 2 ) response after amputation ( Successive dots at intervals of Apex-time sec. , in both .
It was held , then , that the rapidity of the fall of leaf under stimulus is materially aided ( 1 ) by the expansion of the upper half of the pulvinus , which * Haberlandt , 'Physiological Plant Anatomy , ' 1914 , p. 670 , English Translation , Macmillan \amp ; Co. Pfeffer , ' Physiology of Plants , ' vol. 2 , p. 75 , English Translation , Clarendon Press .
Petiote-Putvinus Preparations of Mimosa pudica . .
is normally in a state of compression , and ( 2 ) by the weight of the leaf .
So much for theory .
The experimental evidence available regarding the relative importance of the upper and lower halves of the pulvinus is not very conclusive .
Lindsay attempted to decide the question by his amputation experiments .
He showed that when the upper half was removed the leaf carried out the response , but rigor set in when the lower half was amputated .
Pfeffer 's experiments on the subject , however , contradicted the above results .
He found that\ldquo ; after the upper half of the pulvinus was carefully removed , no movement was produced by stimulation , whereas when the half is absent a weakened power of movement is retained Pfeffer , however , adds " " since the operation undoubtedly affects the irritability , it is impossible to determine from such experiments the exact part played by the active contraction of the lower half of the pulvinus .
The cause of uncertainty in this investigation is twofold .
First , it arises from the unknown change in irritability consequent on amputation ; and , secondly , from absence of any quantitative standard by which the effect of selective amputation of the pulvinus may be measured .
As regards the first , I have been able to reduce the depressing action caused by injury to a minimum by benumbing the tissue before operation , through local application of cold , and also allowing the shock-effect to disappear after a rest of several hours .
As regards the physiological gauge of efficiency of the motor mechanism , such a measure is afforded by relation between a definite testing stimulus and the resulting response with its time-relations , which is secured by my Resonant Recorder with the standardised electrical stimulator .
In carrying out this investigation I first took the record of normal response of an intact leaf on a fast.moving plate .
A second record , with the same stimulus , was taken after the removal of the upper half of the pulvinus , having taken the necessary precautions that have been described .
Comparison of the two records ( fig. 4 ) shows that the only difference between them is in the exhibition of slight diminution of excitability due to operation .
Bnt , as regards the latent period and the quickness of attaining maximum fall , there is no diHerence between the two records before and after the amputation of the upper haif .
The upper part of the pulvinus is thus seen practically to have little influence in hastening the fall .
5 .
of Removal of the Lower Ealf .
The shock-effect caused by the amputation of the lower half was found to be very great , and it required a long period of rest before the upper half regained its excitability .
The excitatory reaction of the upper half is by * Pfeffer , ibid. , p. 76 .
the lower half I find to be 80 times more sensitive than the upper .
Thus , under feeble stimulus the upper half exerts praotically no antagonistic reaction .
The excitatory response of the upper half is also seen to be very sluggish .
6 .
Influence of the Weight of Leaf on of Responsive Fall .
It is obvious that the mechanical moment exerted by the weight of the leaf must help its responsive fall under excitation .
But the relative importance of the factors of active contraction of the lower half of the pulvinus and of the weight , in the rate of the responsive down-movement , still remains to be determined .
A satisfactory way of solving the problem would lie in the study of the characteristics of response-records taken under three different conditions : ( 1 ) When the leaf is helped in its fall by its weight ; ( 2 ) when the action of the weight is eliminated ; and ( 3 ) when the fall has to be executed against an equivalent weight .
An approximation to these conditions was made in the following manner .
We may regard the mechanical Petiole-Pulvinus Preparations of Mimosa pudica .
moment to be principally due to the weight of the four sub-petioles applied at the end of the main petiole .
In a given case these sub-petioles were cut off , and their weight found to be .
The main petiole was now attached to the right arm of the lever , and three successive records were taken : ( 1 ) With no weight attached to the petiole ; ( 2 ) with attached to its end ; and ( 3 ) with grm. attached to the left arm of the lever at an equal distance from the fulcrum .
In the first case , the fall due to the excitatory contraction will practically have little weight to help it ; in the second case , it will be helped by a weight equivalent to those of the sub-petioles with their attached leaflets ; and in the third case , the fall will be opposed by an equivalent weighC We find that in these three cases there is very little difference in the time taken by the leaf to complete the fall ( fig. 6 ) .
It has been shown that the presence or absence of the upper half of the FIG. 6.\mdash ; Effect of weight on rapidity of fall .
, without action of weight ; , with weight helping ; and , with weight opposing .
pulvinus makes practically no difference in the period of fall ; it is now seen that the weight exerts comparatively little effect .
We are thus led to conclude that in determining the rapidity of fall , the factors of expansive force of the upper half of the pulvinus and the weight of the leaf are negligible compared to the active force of contraction exerted by the lower half of the pulvinus .
7 .
The Action of Chemical Agents .
In connection with this subject it need hardly be said that the various experiments which I had previously carried out with the intact plant can also influence of this will be realised from the account of an experiment to be given presently , where an identical agent is shown to produce diametrically $ opposite effects on two specimens , one of which was in a normal , and the other in a sub-tonic , condition .
The experiments described below relate to reactions of specimens in a normal condition .
Eydrogen Peroxide.\mdash ; This reagent in dilute solution exerts a stimulating action .
Normal records were taken after long-continued application of water on the pulvinus .
The peroxide , as supplied by Messrs. Park , Davis \amp ; Co. , was diluted to 1 per cent. , and applied to the pulvinus ; this gave rise to an enhancement of response .
-application of water reduced the amplitude to the old normal value ( fig. 7 ) .
FIG. \mdash ; Stimulating action of hydrogen percxide .
Barr , um Chloride.\mdash ; The action of this agent is very characteristic , inducing great sluggishness in .
recovery .
The preparation had been kept in l-percent .
solution of this substance for two hours .
After this the first response to a given test-stimulus was taken ; the response was only moderate , and the tion , represented bineffective.ising eectricrecovery iuggishness wreat tPulvinus Pimosa pudica .
FIG. 8.\mdash ; Incomplete recovery under the action of and transient restoration under tetanisation at T. shock at , not only brought about response , but removed for the time being the induced sluggishness .
This is seen in the next two records , which were taken under the old test-stimulus .
There is now an enhanced response and a complete recovel.y .
Beneficial effect of tetanisation disappeared , however , on the cessation of stimulus .
This is seen in the next two records , which were taken after two hours .
The amplitude of response was not only diminished , but the recovery also was incomplete .
Antagonistic Actions of Alkali and Acid.\mdash ; Alkali and acid are known to exert antagonistic actions on the spontaneous beat of the heart ; dilute solution of NaOH arrests the beat of the heart in systolic contraction , while dilute lactic acid arrests the beat in diastolic expansion .
I have found identical antagonistic reactions in the pulsating tissue of Desmodium gyrans ( the telegraph plant ) .
It is very interesting to find that these agents also exert their characteristic effects on the response of Jlimosa in a manner which is precisely the same .
This is seen illustrated in fig. 9 , where the application of NaOH arrested the response in a contracted state ; after this , the antagonistic effect of dilute lactic acid is seen first , in its power of restoring the excitability ; its continued application , however , causes a second arrest , but this time in a state of relaxed expansion .
Solution.\mdash ; This agent acts as a poison , causing a gradual diminution of amplitude of response , culminating in actual arrest at death .
Certain poisons , again , exhibit another striking symptom at the moment of death , an account of which will be given in a separate paper .
a resting period of about 15 .
With this interval of rest the successive responses for a given stimulus are equal , and are at their maximum .
But when the resting interval is diminished the recovery becomes incomplete , and there is a consequent diminution of amplitude of response .
There is thus an increased fatigue with diminished period of rest .
This is illustrated 1 in fig. 10 , where the first two responses are at intervals of 15 ; the resting interval was then reduced to 10 , the response undergoing a FIG. 11 .
FIG. 10 .
FIG. 10.\mdash ; " " Fatigue\ldquo ; induced by shortening intervening period of rest . .
ll.\mdash ; Action of constant current in removal of fatigue by hastening recovery ; , curve of fatigue ; , after passage of current .
Petiole-Pulvinus rations of Mimosa pudica .
marked diminution .
Conversely , by increasing the resting interval , first to 12 and then to 15 , the extent of fatigue was reduced and then abolished .
9 .
The Influeme of Constant Electr Ourrent on Recovery .
From the above experiment it would appear that since the ncompleteness of recovery induces fatigue , hastening of recovery would remove it .
With this idea I tried various methods for quickening the recovery of the excited leaf .
The application of a constant electric current was found to have the desired effect .
Two electrodes for introduction of current were applied , one on the stem and the other on the petiole , at some distance from the pulvinus .
In order to avoid the excitatory effect of sudden application , the applied current should be increased radually ; this was secured by means of a potentiometer slide .
In my experiment a current having an intensity of micro-ampere was found to be effective .
Responses at intervals of 10 , as we have seen , exhibit marked fatigue .
Two responses were recorded on a fast-moving plate , before , and after , the application of the current .
It will be seen ( fig. 11 ) how the application of current has , by hastening the recovery , enhanced the amplitude of response and brought about a diminution of fatigue .
In connection with this , I may state that the tonic condition is , in general , improved as an after-effect of the passage of current .
This is seen in some cases by a slight increase in excitability ; in others , where the responses had been irregular , the passage of a current tends to make the responses more uniform .
10 .
The Action of Light and Darkness on Excitabilit ?
J In taking continuous records of responses I was struck by the marked change of excitability exhibited by the intact plant under variation of light .
Thus the appearance of a cloud was quickly followed by an induced depression , and its disappearance by an equally quick restoration of excitability .
This may be explained on the theory that certain chemical compounds are built up by the photosynthetic processes in green leaves , and that the intensity of response depends on the presence of these compounds .
But the building up of a chemical compound must necessarily be a slow process , and it is difficult on the above hypothesis to connect the rapid variation of excitability with the production of a chemical compound , or its cessation , concomitant with changes in the incident light .
In order to find out whether photosynthesis had any effect on excitability , I placed an intact plant in a dark room and obtained from it a long series of responses under uniform test-stimulus .
While this was being done the green leaflets were alternately subjected to strong light and to darkness , care being The room was darkened by pulling down the blinds , and records were continued in darkness .
Ths temperature of the room remained unchanged at C. It will be seen from records given in fig. 12 that in FIG. 12.\mdash ; Stimulating action of light , darkness there is a great depression of and depressing action of darkness .
excitability .
Blinds were next pulled up , and the records now obtained exhibit the normal excitability under light .
The sky had by this time become brighter , and this accounts for the slight enhancement of excitability .
This experiment proves conclusively that light has a direct stimulating action on the pulvinus , independent of photosynthesis .
11 .
Effect of Desiecation arul of Injury on Conducting Tissues .
I have , in my paper on " " Transmission of Excitation in already referred to , shown that transmission of excitation in the plant is a process fundamentally similar to that taking place in the animal nerve ; it has also been shown that the effects of various physical and chemical agents are the same in the conducting tissues of the plant and of the animal .
Effect of Application of Glycerin.\mdash ; It is known that desiccation , generally speaking , enhances the excitability of the animal nerve .
As glycerin , by absorption of water , causes partial desiccation , I tried its effect on conduction of excitation in the petiole of Mimosa .
Enhancement of conducting power may be exhibited in two ways : first , by an increase of velocity of tran8mission ; and , secondly , by an enhancement of the intensity of the 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 204 ( 1913 ) .
Petiole-Pulvinus Preparations of Mimosa pudica .
transmitted excitation , which would rise to an enhanced response the motile indicator .
In fig. 13 are given two records , ( 1 ) before and ( 2 ) after the FIG. 13.\mdash ; Action of glycerin in enhancing the speed and intensity of transmitted excitation .
application of ycerin on a length of petiole through which excitation was being transmitted .
The time-records demonstrate conclusively the enhanced rate of transmission after the application of glycerin .
The increased intensity of excitation is also seen in the enhanced amplitude of response .
Action of Injury on Normal Specimens.\mdash ; A cut stem with entire leaf was taken , and stimulus applied at a distance of 15 mm. from the pulvinus .
From the normal record ( 1 ) in fig. 14 the velocity of transmission was found to be mm. per sec. The end of the petiole beyond the point of FIO .
14.\mdash ; Effect of injury , essing rate of conduction in normal specimen ; ( 1 ) record before , and 2 ) after injury .
( Intervals , application of the testing stimulus was now cut off , and record of velocity of transmission taken once more .
It will be seen from record ( 2 ) that the excessive stimulus .
caused by injury had induced a depression in the conducting power , the velocity being reduced to mm. per sec. Excessive FIG. 15.\mdash ; Effect of injury in enhancing the conducting power of a sub-normal specimen ; ( 1 ) Ineffective transmission becoming effective at ( 2 ) after section , ( 3 ) decline after half an hour , and ( 4 ) inc1eased conductivity after a fresh cut .
the point of application of test-stimulus was now cut off The after-effect of of this injury was found so to enhance the conducting power that stimulus previously arrested was now effectively transmitted , the velocity being 20 mm. per sec. This enhanced conducting power began slowly to decline , and after half an hour the velocity had declined to mm. per sec. The end of the petiole was cut once more , and the effect of injury was again found to enhance the conducting power , the velocity of transmission being restored to 25 mm. per sec. Summary of Results .
On isolation of a petiole-pulvinus preparation , the shock of operation is found to paralyse its sensibility .
After suitable mounting the excitability is restored , and remains practically uniform for about 24 hours .
After this a sets in , the rate of fall of excitability becomes rapid 40 hours after the operation , sensibility being finally abolished after the fiftieth hour .
Experiments carried out on the effect of weight , and the influence of selective amputation of the upper and lower halves of the pulvinus , show that in determining the rapidity of fall of leaf , the assumed factors of the expansive force of the upper half of the pulvinus and the weight of the leaf are negligible compared to the force of active contraction exerted by Petiole-Pulvinus Preparations of Mimosa pudica .
the lower half of the pulvinus .
The excitability of the lower half is eighty times greater than that of the upper .
Chemical agents induce characteristic changes in excitability .
Hydrogen peroxide acts as a stimulant .
Barium chloride renders the recove ry incomplete ; but tetanisation temporarily removes the induced sluggishness .
Acids and alkahs induce antagonistic reactions , abolition of excitability with alkali taking place in a contracted , and with acid in an expanded , condition of the pulvinus .
The responses exhibit fatigue when the period of rest is diminished .
The passage of constant current is found to remove the fatigue .
Response is enhanced on exposure to ] ight , and diminished in darkness .
Light is shown to exert a direct stimulating action on the pulvinus , independent of photosynthesis .
Application of glycerin on the petiole enhances the velocity of transmission and the intensity of the transmitted excitation. .
Injury caused by cut or section of the petiole induces a variation in the conducting power .
Two different effects are produced , determined by the tonic condition of the specimen : in normal specimens injury depresses the conducting power , in sub-tonic specimens it enhances it .
The records given are photographic reproductions of the original tracings .
I take this opportunity of acknowledging the special facilities for carrying out these researches that have been afforded me by the Hon. P. C. Lyon , C.S.I. , Minister in charge of Education , Government of Bengal .

