X. " On the Contractility of Healthy and Paralysed Muscles as tested by Electricity .
" By HARRY LOBB , Esq. Communicated by JOHN SIMrON , Esq. Received April 30 , 1863 .
If a moist conductor from the positive pole of the finer wire of an electro-magnetic battery* be placed upon the skin covering the origin of a healthy muscle , and the moist conductor from the negative pole , upon its belly , and a current of moderate intensity be allowed to pass , the muscle will contract tonically as long as the current passes ; and if it be increased in intensity , cramp will eventually be induced .
The positive pole may be placed upon almost any part of the body to produce this effect ; only as it is removed further from the muscle to be acted on , the intensity of the current must be progressively increased .
A healthy muscle contracts with more vigour if the current be direct-that is to say , the positive pole towards the centre , the negative pole towards the periphery .
If a muscle paralysed from recent injury to the brain be acted upon in the same way , it will be found to contract more vigorously than a healthy one under the same intensity of current .
If an extensor muscle paralysed and wasted , the result of poisoning by lead , be treated in the same way , no contraction can be induced even with the highest power of the apparatus ; the unparalysed flexors will alone contract .
If a muscle paralysed and wasted from loss of nutrition , as in those local paralyses which are the sequelae of fever , the exanthemata , convulsions , irritation during teething , &amp;c. , be acted on in the same way , no contraction can be induced ; if the current is increased in intensity , the healthy or antagonistic muscles contract .
In these two latter instances-after treatment by the continuous galvanic current , when circulation has been re-established , and the paralysed muscles are better nourished-if the current be reversed , the positive pole placed on the insertion of the muscle , and the negative pole on the belly , and if the current is not too strong , faint contraction takes place , gradually increasing until the muscle is sufficiently restored to contract under the direct stimulus .
A singular fact in connexion with these paralysed and wasted muscles is , that they will contract at the will of the patient , for some time , before they will do so to the stimulus of the current ; but the paralysed muscles are not safe from a relapse until they contract vigorously to the ordinary direct electrical stimulus .
At a certain stage of improvement , when the paralysed muscle will neither contract to the will nor to the electro-magnetic current , it will do so to the combinationD of the two .
1863.1 651

