I. " Notice of Researches on a New Class of Organic Bases , conducted by CHARLES S. WooD , Esq. " By A- .
W. HoFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 21 , 1858 .
In his remarkable memoir* on the action of reducing agents on nitro-compounds , in which Zinin first pointed out the formation of organic bases by the substitution of hydrogen for oxygen , some experiments are recorded on the deportment of dinitro-nlaphtalin ( nitronaphtalese ) with sulphuretted hydrogen .
Zinin states that this process gives rise to the formation of a basic co ipound crystallizing in delicate copper-red needles , and yielding with acids white scaly salts .
In a subsequeiit papert Zinin returns to the action of sulphuretted hydrogen or dinitronaphtalin , and gives a fuller account of the products obtained in this process .
The basic substance arising from diniitronaphtalin crystallizes in colourless ileedles of great brilliancy , which contain C1011 , ; N , or C2 II N 10 5 ~~20 10 2It is a well-defined basic body , which Zinin describes under the name of seminaphlalidam .
From this later communication it would appear that the copper-red coloration originally observed was due to the presence of a foreign colouring matter , which can be separated by crystallizing the base alternately from alcohol and water .
Subsequently the copper-red body appears to have been observed by Laurent* , who states that the action of sulphuretted hydrogen upon dinitronaphtalin gives rise to the formation of a carmine-red alkali .
He did not , however , analyse this substance , and the discovery of nitranilinet having established the existence of basic nitrosubstitutes , the compound in question was hitherto believed to be nitro-naphtylamine .
The red crystals have of late been miinutely investigated in my laboratorv by Mr. Charles Wood , whose experiments have led to an unexpected result , which I beg to lay before the Society .
A current of sulphuretted hydrogen transmitted through a boiling solution of dinitronaphtalin in weak alcoholic ammonia slowly reduces the nitro-compound .
The process is continued for two or three hours , during which time the greater part of the spirit distils off ; the residue is acidified with dilute sulphuric acid , and the liquid heated to ebullition .
The filtered liquid deposits on cooling a yellowish brown sulphate , which may be purified by several crystallizations from boiling water .
The addition of ammonia to the solid sulphate immediately changes the colour to a fine dark carmine-red ; the base thus liberated is washed with cold water , and finally purified by crystallization from water or very dilute alcolhol .
Thus prepared , the substance , for which Mr. Wood proposes the name ninaphtylamnine , is a light flocculent mass , composed of little acicular crystals , which are partially decomposed by exposure to a temperature of 1000 C. It is difficultly soluble in boiling water , but extremely soluble in alcohol and ether .
In the anialysis of the base dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid , Mr. Wood has obtained results which lead to the formula C20 18 N2 02 ' This expression was confirmed by the exauini ation of several of the salts of the new base .
Sulphate of ninaphtylamine is obtained either by recrystallizing the cruide salt formed in the preparation of the body , or by dis* Coiript .
Rend .
xxxi .
538 .
t Muspratt and Hofmann , Memioirs of the Chemyical Society , vol. iii .
111 .
solving the pure base in dilute sulphuric acid .
It forms white scales , which are apt to be decomposed by recrystallization from pure water .
The salt dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid contains 2(C2 , 18 N2 02 ) , 11 S2 80 .
Hydrochlorate of ninaphtylamine forms acicular crystals ; they are obtained like the sulphate , which they resemble in their general deportment .
Composition : C20 8 N2 0 , , H Cl. The platinum-8alt of ninaphtylamine forms rather soluble yel .
lowish-brown crystals , which are obtained by adding a concentrated solution of dichloride of platinum to an alcoholic or ethereal solution of the base .
It has the usual constitution , containing C20 H8 N2 02 , C1 , Pt Cl,2 If it be permitted , in the absence of further experimental evidence , to speculate upon the molecular constitution of the body which forms the subject of this note , the simplest interpretation of its composition andformation would be to view it as a substitution-product of niaphtylamine , but differing from the ordinary nitro-substitutes , by containing the elements of binoxide , inistead of tetroxide of nitrogen .
Naphthylamine e. .
C0 , 11N =H N , E C20 ( 116 N2 ) Ninaphthylamine. .
C 121 N0= HL N. Its formation would them be represented by the equation 20 [ 11 ( NO4)2 ] +4 2S2= 3 11202 +8S+ C20 [ H18 N ] N Dinitronaphtalin .
Ninaphthylamine .
Bodies in which binoxide of nitrogeen figures as a material of substitution are as yet extremely rare , whilst nitro-substitutes containing the elements of hyponitric acid are of the most general occurrence .
Some chemists have considered nitrous ether as a binoxide of nitrogen derivative of alcohol .
Alcohol.4 e.eH00016 020 Nitrous ether ... v. C , 4( nhe most initeresting illustrations of this kinld of substitution , however , have been furnished by Messrs. Church and Perkin * in the colouring matters produced by the action of nascent hydrogen on dinitro-substitutes , or of nitrous acid upon certain monamines .
Phenylamine .
C12 H7 N , Nitrosophenyline. .
C12 ( H6 )N .
Naphthylamine ... C20 H9 N , Nitrosonaphtylin C. C20 ( H ) N. Expressed by these formulaw , the substances in question appear to be closely allied to Mr. Wood 's base ; in fact , nitrosonaphtylin has the same compositioni as ninaphthylamine .
But a superficial comparison of the properties of the two bodies excludes any idea of their being identical .
The formule of nitrosophenyline and nitrosonaphtylin have not as yet been finally established by the analysis of their compounds , these substances , like colouring matters in general , being of an indifferent character .
It is probable that they are formed by the association of several molecules , a supposition which receives considerable support from the discovery of ninaphthylamine .
The formation of ninaphthylamine promises to add considerably to the number of nitro-derivatives of the aromatic monamines .
To each of these substances probably corresponids a nitrous and a nitric substitution-base , but as yet we are unacquainted with a single one in which both derivatives are known , as shown by a glance at the groups best examined .
Phenyl .
Group .
Naphtyl .
Group .
C12 1H5 C20117 j Phenylamine ... .
Ht N , Naphthylamine HS N. 11 J H1 J C12 ( H1 NO2 ) N , Ninaphthyl-C20 ( 1l6 NO2 ) ) Unknownl ... .
H | ... ... amine ... , N. Nb ~~1C2 ( 114NO4 ) C0 ( 11 , NO4 ) Nitropbenyl1(4 II4|N , Uk 20(E6NAl itropeny[1 N , Unknown 11 H N. amine ... H j

