westward , however , along the wide abyssal depths ( to about 45§ 30 ' W. long .
) , even at more than 2000 fathoms , we find a larger fauna , of but few species , among which Orbulina and Globigerina are characteristically abundant ( especially the latter ) , and are accompanied by Lagena ( rare ) , Discorbina , Uvigerina , Rotalia Soldanii , Ptlvinulina Menardii , P. Micheliniana , and P. Canariensis , occasional specimens of Pullenia , a few Nonionice and Polystomelice ( P. striatopunctata ) , a few Bulimince , very few Textularice , and scattered small Miliolce and Lituolce .
In the western portion of this territory the fauna is somewhat poorer , where naturalists have drawn the southern portion of their " Boreal Province .
" Rising the western slope from the abyss ( 40§ 45 ' to 49§ 23 ' W. long .
, parallel to the northern end of the Bank of Newfoundland ) , we enter the great southern angle of the " Arctic Province , " and the Foraminiferal fauna continues to have much the same elements ; but Globigerina and Orbulina have become rarer ; Miliolce are very rare ; Planorbulina comes in , Pulvinulince disappearing after the first upslant of the bottom at 45§ 45 ' W. long .
From 500 14 ' 30 " to 52§ 44 ' W. long .
, we are still off the northern edge of the Newfoundland Bank ; and , though the depth decreases from 405 fathoms to 161 and then to 112 fathoms , Foraminifera are extremely rare , owing , without doubt , chiefly to the coldness of ice-laden water .
Truncatulina , Pulvinulina , Polystomella , and Uvigerina seem to struggle for existence here , where " Arctic " conditions are extended southwards .
At 52§ 56 ' and thence to 53§ 57 ' 35 " W. long .
the line of soundings is in Trinity Bay , with depths varying from 124 to 195 fathoms .
Only very scarce Globigerince , a few Pulvinulince , some Nonionince , rather more of the very persistent Cassidulince , and a very few Uvigerince , Bulimmnne , and Lituolce appear to inhabit this unfavourable locality at the depths examined .
In fact this region belongs to the " Arctic Province , " which is here prolonged southwards towards the Bank of Newfoundland by the influence of cold currents and icebergs .
With the exception of the westerly soundings , these deep-sea gatherings from the North Atlantic illustrate the Foraminifera of the " Celtic Province " ; but necessarily lack , as a fauna , the complementary shallow-water forms , -namely , those living in the Coralline , Laminarian , and Littoral Zones , at depths less than 40 fathoms .
The materials from Davis Straits ( Hunde Islands ) above-mentioned serve to illustrate only for the " Arctic Province " the Foraminiferal inhabitants of the Coralline-Zone ; and therefore do not fulfil the requirements of this case .
We may take , however , as a term of comparison the list of the Recent Foraminifera of the British Isles , described by Professor WILLIAMSON , but classified ( and partly renamed ) after the plan here adopted , and augmented by later researches ( including those by Mr. H.B. BRADY , F.L.S. ) ; and we thus have before us , in these combined lists , a synopsis of the Foraminiferal fauna of the " Celtic Province .
" ( See Table IX .
in Appendix V. ) The deep-sea Foraminiferal fauna of the North Atlantic differs from the fauna of the Coralline , Laminarian , and Littoral Zones of the " Celtic Province " chiefly in having fewer varieties and ( generally ) smaller individuals of Nodosarina , Lagena , Polystomella 332 or ) c ) OOO FORAMIiNIFERA FROMI THE NORTH ATLANTIC AND ARCTIC OCEANS .
and Nonionina , Rotalin6e , Bulimina , Textularia , Cornuispira , lJIiltolc , and Lituola , and no Polymorphince ; and in having more Cassidchtlin and Uvigerince , and far more Glo6igerince and Orbulince , with the addition of Pullenia .
The Telegraph-line , in passing the northern end of the Bank of Newfoundland , enters ( at about 47 ?
W. long .
) the Southern extension of the " Arctic Province"* , where the prevalence of floating ice keeps " Arctic " conditions as far south as 45 ?
N. lat. This western extremity of the line does not belong , therefore , to the " Celtic , " but to the " Arctic Province " ; and the few Foraminifera occurring there may be regarded as equivalent to those mentioned above as being found at similar depths in Baffin 's Bay .
The south-western extremity of the " Boreal Province , " bordering the " Arctic , " also invades the western part of the line of soundclingst ; and is coincident with a somewhat impoverished condition of the abyssal fauna common to these soundings ( Nos. 21-26 ) and others ( Nos. 27-32 ) to the East ( " Celtic " ) .
The accompanying Map ( after Commander DAYMAN'Sxs Chart ) , Plate XII .
, illustrates the foregoing remarks .
See Appendix VII .
We are fortunately able to compare the deep-sea Foraminifera of the North Atlantic with those inhabiting the shallower water of its western margin at a lower latitude than Newfoundland , where the Telegraph-soundings terminate .
The late Professor BAILEY'S examination^ of some soundings made by the United States Coast-survey on the shores of New Jersey and Delaware , between lat. 50 ?
and ]at .
38 ?
N. , in 1848 , affords us the means of doing this , at least to some extent .
Where the " Celtic Province , " crossing the Atlantic from the British Isles , approaches North America , it takes on a modified character , and is known as the " Virginian Province " ; and its north and south limits are just those of the series of soundings made by the United States Coast-survey referred to above , and thus yielding us ( as far as Professor BAILEY'S figures and descriptions serve ) the western equivalents of the eastern margin of the " Celtic Province .
" See Appendix II .
, and Table VIII .
As far as Professor BAILEY'S material shows , we find the " Virginian " fauna to be related to the " Celtic " of the Irish coast by Orbulina universa , Cristellaria czltrate , Planorbulina Ungeriana ( abundant in the Irish and rare in these American soundings ; whilst its congener , P1 .
Haidingerii , abounds here and is wanting in the soundings off Ireland ) , Ptulvinulinca Mienardii , Globigerina bulloicles , and Qu(izquelocutlina Seminuloum .
All the recorded " Virginian " forms occur in the British seas , except Marginudina regtlaris , Verneuilina triquetra , Bulimina Pyrula ( represented to the eastward by B. marginacta ) and Virgulina sguamnosa .
See the Map of the Molluscan Provinces , by E. FonBES , in KEIaTH JOuNsTO 's ' Physical Atlas ' ; the Map in S. P. WOODWArD 's ' Manual of Mollusca ' ; and that in FoRBES and GODWIN-AUSTEN 's ' Not .
Hist. of the European Seas .
' t Soundings Nos. 26,25,24,23,22 , &amp; 21 .
The last is close upon the southern limb of the ' Arctic Province .
" + See the ' Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge , ' vol. ii .
1861 .
MfR .
W. K. P A.RKER AND PROFESSOR T. .
JONES ON SOME To the ' Arctic " and " 'Boreal " faunie the " Virginian " is allied by -Dentaina pcauperate , Cristbeliacria cultrata , Glo'igerina bulloides , Bdhli za PXyrul^c , K'rgyulina S &amp; creibersii , V. sqamnosa , and Qinqzelocudina SeminuAl^m .
Besides Foiraninifera , the North-Atlantic soundings obtained by Conimmander DAYMAN have yielded us the organic and inorganic materials indicated in Tables VI .
&amp; XII .
Mr. F. C. S. ROPrE , F.L.S. , F.G.S. , has obliged us with the following Note on the Diatomacee * .
" 3 Carlton Villas , January 7 , 1864 .
" M } DEAR SIr , -I regret that I have not before this replied to yours of the 24th ilt .
, relating to the Soundings I received from Mr. PAPKEr .
I mounted slides from each packet , but found that they contained so few Diatoms , that I only made cursory notes upon them ; and , on referring to these , find they were almost confined to specimens of Coscinodiscus , as you will see by the list enclosed .
These Atlantic soun dings are so transparent , and the siliceous matter apparently so wasted , that it is very trying to the eyes to hunt over a succession of slides with high powers , to seek the few Diatoms contained in them ; and I was compelled from the fear of injury to my sight to abstain from an exhaustive examination of them .
" Believe me very truly yours , " F. C. S. ROPrE , .
" No. 30 .
vXr , Q1 Clays .
A few fragments of Coseinodisci .
W. NUa l. , , pi No. 61 .
A large Cocconeis .
A few Coscinodisci , apparently C0 .
radiatus .
A Rhabdonema .
No. 63 .
A few fragments of Coscinodisci .
No. 85 .
Coscinodiseus .
C. perforatus ?
No. 100 .
Coscinodiscus eccentricus .
Coscinodiscus radiatus .
Orthosira marina .
Actinocyclus undulatuLs .
Pleurosigma transversale ?
No. 41 .
Coscinodiscus radiatus .
A Nitzschia .
A Rthabdonema .
No. 45 .
Fragments of Coscinodisci .
No. 69 .
, , No. 73 .
Large Coseinodiscus .
No. 79 .
, No. 86 .
Coscinodisci , a few .
The remainder little else than Foraminifera and sand .
Sands .
No. 47 .
Coscinodiscus ?
sp. Rhabdonema .
Grammatophora marina .
No. 59 .
A few Coscinodisci .
No. 64 .
, , The remainder nearly all sand with Foraminifera .
The following Entomostraca from these soundings have been determined by Mr. G. S. BRADY .
Cythere scabra , Mnster ; 2050 fathoms .
Lat. 52§ 16 ' N. , long .
16§ 46 ' W. rhomboidea Brady ; 43 fathoms .
Lat. 51§ 57 1 .
, long .
10§ 30 ' W. mamillata , Bradly ; 110 fathoms .
Lat. 52§ 59 ' N. , long .
14§ 10 ' W. Bairdia Bosquetiana , Brady ; 470 fathoms ; off Ireland .
5 .
Besides the description and illustration of the Foramninifera obtained from the four sets of soundings and dredgings above mentioned , and the tabulation of the species and varieties , showing their depth of water and relative size and abundance , we also point out , to some extent , their distribution in other seas ( see TableVII .
) , and their occurrence in the fossil state ; thus providing some materials towards a correct knowledge of their distribution in Time and Space .
With this in view , we have endeavoured to simplify the nomenclature of the Foraminifera by adhering as strictly as possible to the plan of study laid down by WILLIAMASON^ and CARPENTERt , and followed by ourselves in former memoirs+ .
Using the classification and nomenclature ?
proposed in the ' Introduction to the Study of the Foraminifera , ' we have , under generic and specific heads , a limited number of Foraminiferal groups , possessing among themselves very different features , whilst the members of each group are formed on one simple plan , almost infinitely modified in its details , and often producing imitations of members of the other groups , just as mimetic resemblances occur in Mollusca , and in other Classes of the Animal and Vegetable Kingdoms .
By recognizing these mimetic resemblances among distinct varieties and species , and laying but little stress on non-essential features , we seem to be able to grasp the multitudinous varieties and subvarieties , modified , disguised , and transitional , with something like satisfactory results ; and they fall into natural recognizable groups , having more or less fixed habits and places of growth , instead of escaping from us as an illimitable cloud of differing though related individuals , almost unknown in reality , though nearly each has been endowed by writers with a separate binomial title .
In determining the species and varieties of the Foraminifera under notice , we have , as .
far as possible , used already published materials ; and in comparing our specimens with figured forms , we have been satisfied when a near approach to identity is shown ; minute differences are ignored , such differences not being of essential value .
There have been many naturalists who have helped on our knowledge of these Microzoa .
D'ORBIGNY first classified them sufficiently well to enable himself and others to group their acquired material in an orderly , though artificial manner ; and by his care an enormous number of forms , specific and varietal , from different parts of the earth , recent and fossil , have been arranged in good lithograph plates , serving as a museum for reference .
Since D'ORBIGNY , few have collected such great stores of Foraminifera , and illustrated them so abundantly , as Professor Dr. A. E. REUSS ; providing naturalists with , as it were , available collections of hundreds of forms .
Professor REUSS'S latest observations have led him in a great degree to concur with ( and in some cases to anticipate , we believe ) the classification propounded in the ' Introduction to the Study of the * On the Recent Foraminifera of Great Britain ; by Professor W. C. WILLIAMSON , F.R.S. ( Ray Society ) 4to .
1858 .
t Introduction to the Study of the Foraminifera ; by W. B. CARPENTER , M.D. , F.R.S. , assisted by W. K. PARKER , Esq. , and T. RUPERT JONES , F.G.S. ( Ray Society ) 4to .
1862 .
+ Papers on the Nomenclature of the Foraminifera , in the Annals of Natural History , from 1859 to 1863 . ?
The concise and well-digested remarks on classification and nomenclature in Dr. WOODIWARD'S ' anual of Mollusca ' are in great part applicable to Rhizopodal studies .
2z 2 MiR .
W. K. PARKEIt AND PROFESSOR T. .
J. JONES ON SOME Foraminifera .
' To D'OnRBIGN and REuss , then , references will be continually made in this memoir for illustrations of the species and varieties ; and the titles and dates of their works , and of those of other authors treating of Foraminifera , are given in the books and memoirs above mentioned , in which all the species adopted by the older authors ( LINTE , GMELIN , WALiEIR , JACOB , MONTAGU , FICTTEL , MOLL , LAMARcK , DE MONTFORT , DE BLAINVILLE , and DEFRANCE ) have been critically determined .
If ever the Foraminifera of all seas come to be collected and exanmined with care , there is little doubt that they will afford to the Naturalist as satisfactory results as the bathymetrical study of mollusks affords ; they will be perhaps even more useful to the Geologist , in aiding him to form correct notions as to the depth and other conditions of water in which strata have been formed ; whilst the accurate comparison of the longenduring Foraminiferal species of past and of present time , with their ever-varying modifications , according to climate , depth , and food , cannot fail to be a source of instruction to the Biologist .
II .
Description of Species and Varieties .
In the following list , the species and varieties described in this memoir are enumerated in their natural order as nearly as their nature permits ; the more important of the typical forms not represented in the Arctic and North-Atlantic fauna , but required to complete the series as a natural group , being added in brackets .
List of Genera , Species , and Varieties of Foraminifera from the Arctic and North Atlantic Oceans .
Genus NODOSARINA .
[ SrPCIES .
Nodosarina ( Marginulina ) Raphanus .
] Subspecies .
N. ( Nodosaria ) Raphanus ... ... .
Variety .
N. ( Nodosaria ) scalaris ... ... .
N. ( Glandulina ) klevigata ... ... N. ( Nodosaria ) Radicula ... ... . .
N. ( Dentalina ) communis ... ... Subvariety .
N. ( D. ) consobrina ... ... N. ( D. ) pauperata ... ... N. ( D. ) guttifera ... ... [ Subspecies .
N. ( Vaginulina ) Legumen .
] Variety .
N. ( V. ) linearis ... ... ... ... . .
[ SPFCIES .
Nodosarina ( Marginulina ) Raphanus .
] Variety .
N. ( M. ) Lituus ... ... ... ... .
[ Subspecies .
N. ( Cristellaria ) Calcar .
] Variety .
N. ( C. ) Crepidula ... ... ... ... N. ( C. ) cultrata ... ... ... ... . .
N. ( C. ) rotulata ... ... ... ... . .
Arctic ... ... a ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Plate XIII .
fig. 1 .
Plate XIII .
figs. 2-7 .
Plate XIII .
fig. 10 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Plate XIII .
figs. 8 , 9 .
Plate XIII .
fig. 11 .
North Atlantic .
Plate XVI .
fig. 1 .
Plate XVI .
fig. 2 .
Plate XVI .
fig. 3 .
Plate XIII .
figs. 12 , 13 .
Plate XIII .
fig. 14 .
Plate XIII .
figs. 15 , 16 .
Plate XIII .
figs. 17 , 18 .
Plate XIII .
fig. 19 .
Plate XVI .
fig. 4 .
Plate XVI .
fig. 5 .
Arctic .
North Atlantic .
Variety .
ML .
( Spiroloculina ) planulata ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Plate XVII .
fig. 82 .
Subvariety .
Sp. limbata ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Plate XVII .
fig. 83 .
'Variety .
M. ( Biloculina ) ringens ... ... . .
Plate XV .
figs. 42-44 .
Subvariety .
B. depressa ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Plate XVII .
fig. 89 .
B. clongata ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Plate XVII .
figs. 88 , 90 , 91 .
[ Variiety .
31 .
( Triloculina ) trigonula .
] Subvariety .
T. tricarinata ... ... ... .
Plate XV .
fig. 40 .
T. cryptella ... ... ... .
Plate XV .
fig. 39 .
Genus NODOSARINIA .
Several of the Nodosarine forms are well represented in the northern seas ; but the completion of this group of hyaline , straight , or more or less bent and coiled , uniserial shells , flat , bulbous , cylindrical , or tapering , with simple septal apertures surrounded by radiating fissures , such as are comprised in our great genus Nodosarina ( with but one true species ) , must be sought for in other seas .
The larger Nodosaric and Cristellarice are wanting here , as well as the Plcabellince and lrondicularice , the Linguline also , and a host of variable D)entaline , Vagizulinw , and Mlarginulince .
Nodosaria* Bapciamns , Linne , sp. Ilate XVI .
fig. 1 ( North Atlantic ) .
A dwarf sulcate specimen with the septal lines hidden ; ridges strong , oblique , and inosculating to some extent .
These are not unusual features in similar but larger specimens from the Mediterranean and elsewhere , occurring at from the shore-line to 100 fathoms .
Our specimen is from 78 fathoms , lat. 51§ 59 ' , long .
11 ?
, North Atlantic , to the north of Newfoundland Bank .
Nodosaria scalaris , Batsch .
Plate XVI .
figs. 2 a , 2 b , 2c ( North Atlantic ) .
A pretty , common form , neatly striated , subcylindrical , with more or less elongate neck or stolon-tube .
This is one of the varieties found by SOLDANI near Sienna ( Testaceogr .
vol. i. part 2 , pl. 95 , figs. b-m ) , and named N. longicauda by D'ORBIGNY ( Ann. des Sciences Not .
vol. vii .
p. 254 , no. 28t .
( See also page 353 .
) Our figured specimens are from the North Atlantic ; rare and small at 78 , 90 , 200 , 222 , and 415 fathoms ( see Table V. ) .
We have otherwise collected it principally from muds from about 100 fathoms in the northern seas .
ANodosaria ( Glandulina ) lwevigata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XIII .
fig. 1 ( Arctic ) .
This is a smooth form , and rather slender compared with that figured by D'ORBIGNY i-n the ' Annals des Sciences Not .
, ' vol. vii .
pl. 10 , fig. 1-3 ; the ribbed form ( iN .
Glans , D'Orb .
) is represented by D'ORBIGNY'S Modele , No. 51 ; both of these were from the Adriatic , and were grouped in his subgenus Glandulina , characterized by the short and acute-ovate shell , formed of few , close-fitting chambers , rapidly enlarging from the primordial .
Similar characters , but with less regularity , are found in many specimens of Nodosaria Radicztla , and therefore the term Glanduttina is useful merely for convenience in distinguishing the neatest of a great number of similarly modified forms , and is nothing in a zoological sense .
Our specimens are from Nordland , in the Arctic Circle , at a depth of 160 fathoms ( Messrs. MACANDREW and BARRETT ) ; and they appear to be not uncommon , on a muddy bottom .
This Glandutlina occurs also , though never abundantly , in other seas ; for instance , on the muddy bed of the Gulf of Suez at 30 to 40 fathoms ; in the Mediterranean , at from 30 to 100 fathoms ( particularly in the Adriatic ) ; and it has been found by Mr. H. B. BRADY in sea-sand from Shetland .
In the fossil state this form is not rare , though of extremely small size , as in several of the fossiliferous clays of the Secondary Period ( where it is apt to run , on the one hand , into Lingulina , and , on the other , into Nodosaria Jadicula ) , as in the Upper Triassic Clay of Chellaston , the Oxford Clay of Leighton , the Kimmeridge Clay of Aylesbury , and in the Chalk-marl ; as also in the Tertiary strata of the Mediterranean area .
Nodosaria Radicula , Linn. sp. Plate XIII .
figs. 2-7 ( Arctic ) .
This is a Nodosarian variety closely related to the last , passing gradually from the shape of a top to that of a pupa , or from a glandiform to a cylindrical shape , thus comprising Nodosaria hunmilis , Roemer , and many other named subvarieties .
These allied forms also lead out from Nodosaria proper to Dentalina ; the aperture being often excentric and the axis curved .
The several intermediate modifications of form have received numerous binomial appellations from authors .
Fig. 4 presents , instead of the round aperture , a transverse slit .
This is a character supposed to be of generic value by D'ORBIGNY and special to Lingulina , this form of aperture being connected generally with a flattened or tongue-shaped form of shell .
Here we have a specimen which dissolves the distinction between Nodosaria and Lingulinza .
Of the specimens here illustrated , figs. 2-6 are from Nordland ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) , 160 fathoms , muddy bottom .
They are common ( about a dozen specimens ) , and of relatively large size .
Fig. 7 is from Hunde Islands , Davis Straits , from a bottom of shelly sand , at 30'40 fathoms ( Dr. P. C. SUTHERLAND ) .
These and numerous other closely allied forms occur in abundance in the Upper Triassic and Liassic clays , and in the clays of the Oolitic formation , but usually they are of very small size .
In the Gault , Chalk-marl , and Chalk of the Cretaceous group , Nod .
Badicula and Nod .
humilis , connecting it with Glandulina lcevigata , are not uncommon , 3MRi .
W. .
K.PARKER AND PROFESSOR T. R. JONES ON SOME and often of as large a size as those of the North Sea .
In the Maestricht Chalk , also , N. Radicula is present and of moderate size .
Nodosaria ( Dentalina ) conmuntis , I D'Orb .
Plate XIII .
fig. 10 ( Arctic ) .
This specimen is a dwarf Dentalina communzis* of D'ORBIGNY .
The obliquity of the chambers in this shell begins early , and so does the greater excentricity of the aperture .
This style of growth is well represented also by D. inornata , D'Orb .
For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 1 .
fig. 51 , and still better by D. Badenensis , D'Orb .
Ibid. pl. 1 .
figs. 48 , 49 ; both of which are well-grown specimens of D. communis .
Our figured specimen is from mixed shelly sands dredged up at various spots between Drontheim and the North Cape by Messrs. MACANDREW and BARRETT .
It is very small , and resembles what is usually found in nearly any muddy sand containing Foraminifera .
JDentalina communis is an extremely common variety wherever Nodosarian forms occur in the clays of the Secondary Formations , but usually it is of small size .
It is larger in the Gault than in the Jurassic clays ; still larger in the Chalk-marl and Chalk , and in the Maestricht Chalk , as well as in the Tertiary beds that yield Nodosarince .
It is very large in the Crag of Suffolk , and in the Subapennine Tertiaries .
Older than the Secondary deposits , however , it is found in the Permian limestones of England and Germany .
It is common in the recent state from the Arctic Circle to the Line ; in fact , geographically and geologically , it has a very large range .
It occurs in many sandy shoredeposits ; but its favourite habitat is mud at 50-100 fathoms ; and is continually met with in the deepest soundings , although never abundant there , and generally small .
Nodosaria ( Dentalina ) consobrina , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVI .
fig. 3 ( North Atlantic ) .
Two joints of Dentalina conmiunis , subvar .
consobrina , D'Orb .
( For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 2 , figs. 1-3 ) ; the chambers are longish and set on more squarely than in D. commun'is proper ; representing a passage into D. ovicula , D'Orb .
( D. globifera , Batsch ) .
This is small and rare at 1776 fathoms in the North Atlantic , lat. 520 33 ' , long .
21 16 .
Nodosaria ( Dentalina ) p]auperata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XIII .
figs. 8 , 9 ( Arctic ) .
We have here a very common subvariety of Dentalina communis , in which the primordial chamber is relatively large , the septa but slightly oblique , and the aperture almost central ; the shell is smooth , nearly cylindrical , and not constricted at the septa in the earlier portion of the shell ( as shown in our figures 8 and 9 ) ; as the animal advances in growth , the chambers take on a more vesicular shape .
D ) .
pauperata , D'Orb .
For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 1 .
figs. 57 , 58 , is the same as our figured specimens ; and D. brevis , D'Orb .
Ibid. pl. 2 .
figs. 9 and 10 , and many other named forms , are scarcely distinguishable .
Somewhat rare ; from shelly sand , Hunde Islands , Disco Bay ( Dr. P. C. SUTHERLAND ) , at 60-70 fathoms ; also from Baffin 's Bay , lat. 75§ 10 N. , long .
G60 10 ' W. ( PARRY'S soundings ) .
Iodosaria ( Dentalina ) guttifera , D'Orbigny .
Plate XIII .
fig. 11 ( Arctic ) .
Passing out of Dentalina communis towards the perfectly moniliform subvarieties of Nodosaria , we have this loosely grown Dentaline form ( D. guttifera , D'Orb .
For .
Foss .
Vein , pl. 2 .
fig. 13 ) , near D. Pyrula , D'Orb .
It varies much in the gibbosity of the chambers .
Though curved , this Dentalina has an almost central aperture , as shown by a broken terminal chamber not here figured .
( See Ann. Not .
Hist. 2 ser. vol. xix .
pl. 19 .
figs. 4 , 5 ) .
We have Dentalinac guttifera from Norway at West Fjord ( Nordland ) , from a sandy bottom at 60 fathoms ( MAcANDREW and BARRETT ) ; and from a muddy bottom ( Arctic Circle ) at 160 fathoms .
These are two fragments of two large specimens .
There is no doubt that in this , as in other instances , the small quantity of materials obtained necessarily limited the number of individuals .
Forms similar or allied to this occur both in existing sea-bottoms and in fossil deposits with much the same range as that of D ) .
communis ; but they are not so common .
Vaginulina linearis , Montagu , sp. Plate XIII .
figs. 12 a , 12 b , 13 a , 13 b ( Arctic ) .
The straight varieties of Margintlina Raphanus ( or the flattened forms of Nodosaria Saphanus , with excentric septal apertures ) are known as Vaginulinm ; a large group , widely extending in time and space ; especially abundant in the Gault and Chalk-marl .
Of these Vayinulin , VI .
Legumen , Linn. , is the most common among the recent ; and the Adriatic Sea may be said to be its home .
The subvarieties with linear costation are very variable as to their amount of ornament ; but they may be all comprised under MONTAGU'S name F. linearis .
( See WILLIAMSON'S 'Monograph Recent Foram .
Great Britain ' p. 23 , pl. 2 .
figs. 46-28 .
) We have two small specimens from the mixed sands dredged up between Drontheim and North Cape ( MAcANDREW and BARRETT ) .
This is not an uncommon form , occurring at moderate depths .
It does not appear to be so common in the fossil as in the recent state , though it is not without close allies in the clays and other deposits of the Secondary and Tertiary formations .
Marginulina Lituus , D'Orbigny .
Plate XIII .
figs. 14 a , 14 b ( Arctic ) .
One of SOLDANI'S figured Foraminifera from the Adriatic , named Marginulina Lituns by D'ORBIGNY ( Annals des Sciences Not .
vol. vii .
p. 259 .
No. 11 ) , well represents our specimen from the Arctic Ocean .
This may be looked at as a passage-form from a simple Vaginulina , oval in section and but little altered from Dentalina , into Cristellaria , through innumerable gentle gradations ; or it may be regarded as a medium between Cristellaria and Marginulina ; and so leading to Nodosaria , through the flattened forms .
Having the chief Nodosarine characters , the iMargintulince form the central group of the Nodosarinae , and Nodosarina ( Marginulina ) JRaphanus is the type of all .
Very large specimens of Ai .
Lituus occur at Nordland , Arctic Circle ( MAcANDREW and BARRETT ) , on a muddy bottom , at 160 fathoms .
These are the largest individuals we have ever seen of this common variety of Mlarginulina or uncoiled Cristellaria , which is to be met with wherever the Cristellarians occur , recent or fossil , from the Lower Secondary deposits upwards .
In this case Cristellaria cultrata is also present ; and an analogous companionship of the Cristellarian and the Marginuline Nodosarince is to be found in Professor BAILEY'S " Microscopical Examination of Soundings made by the United States ' Coast-survey off the Atlantic Coast of the United States " ( Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge , vol. ii .
1851 ) , where two forms ( Robulina D'Orbignii and Marginuligna Bacieii , Bailey ) , equivalent to the above , accompany each other in soundings of from 51 to 90 fathoms .
( See above , page 331 , and Appendix II .
) Cristellaria Crepidula , Fichtel and Moll , sp. Plate XIII .
figs. 15 , 16 a , 16 b ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
fig. 4 ( North Atlantic ) .
We have here a very insensible gradation from 1Marginuliina Lituus ( fig. 14 ) .
In fact fig. 15 differs but little from the latter except in size ; and fig. 16 is merely somewhat more closely coiled , flatter , and shorter ; thus putting on the true Cristellarian form .
These specimens are from dredgings made at the Hunde Islands by Dr. P. C. SUTHERLAND ; they are rather common in the sandy mud , rich with shells , at from 30 to 40 and 60 to 70 fathoms .
In recent occurrence C. Crepidula is as world-wide as the ordinary Dentalince .
It is a feeble form of Cristellaria creeping up from the favourite depth of Cristellarice ( 50 to 100 fathoms ) to shallow water , and downwards to abyssal deeps .
In the fossil state also it has an equally wide range ; but , like its congeners , it is met with of a larger size in the Upper than in the Lower Secondary deposits .
The largest are to be found in the Subapennine and Viennese Tertiaries ; some of these large fossil varieties are extremely thin .
Plate XVI .
fig. 4 ( North Atlantic ) .
A pretty little C. Crepidula , differing only as an individual from fig. 16 in Plate XI .
Small and rare at 43 fathoms , lat. 51§ 57 ' , long .
10§ 30 ' , North Atlantic .
Cristellaria cultrata , Montfort , sp. Plate XIII .
figs. 17 a , 17 b , 18 a , 18 6 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
fig. 5 ( North Atlantic ) .
This is Cristellaria proper , the most nautiloid form attained by any Nodosarina .
Here the rod-like chain of chambers seen in the simple forms ( Nodosaria ) has passed into a spiral , discoidal , symmetrical , lens-shaped shell ( Cristellaria ) .
In this variety , C. cultrata , the shell is more or less keeled ; this keel becomes more developed and rowelled 344 -in C. Calcar , Linn. , sp. When the keel is wanting , we have Cristellaria rotulata , Lamarck .
There are no specific differences in their features .
Fig. 18 shows an irreguldarity of growth , and a disposition to depart from the nautiloid form towards the simpler varieties in which the greater distinction of the chambers is preserved .
Several angles around the periphery of the shells are sometimes formed , rendering their outline polygonal .
Other variations of growth are not uncommon ; the polymorphism of these simple organisms being very great .
Plate XVI .
fig. 5 ( North Atlantic ) .
A smallish nautiloid Cristellaria with moderately developed keel , such as fig. 17 of Plate XIII .
, but differing in the non-essential features of greater obliquity of chambers and more distinct umbilical knob .
Rare at 78 fathoms , lat. 51§ 59 ' , long .
11 ?
, North Atlantic .
Cristellaria rotulata , Lamarck , sp. Plate XIII .
fig. 19 ( Arctic ) .
Here the keel is nearly obsolete .
This carina is generally all that is left to us in these nautiloid forms of the longitudinal strie or costee that so frequently ornament the subspecies of the large Nodosarina group .
Occasionally , however , the lateral faces of the shell bear raised costae crossing the chambers , nearly at right angles , as in the ribbed Nodosarice and Marginulince ( typical ) , and in many Vaginuline , Flabellinae , and Frondiczlarice .
The Cristellarice represented by figs. 17-19 occur , common and large , in the Arctic Circle , Nordland , on a muddy bottom at 160 fathoms .
These recent northern specimens are , as regards size , equal to such as we find in those rich Cristellarian deposits , the Chalk and Chalk-marl .
Like the rest of this group , however , the largest of this form are found in the Subapennine Tertiaries , the Vienna Basin , and in the Tertiary beds of Jamaica and San Domingo .
Exactly similar specimens of Cristellarica abound in the rich shelly bottom , at 50 fathoms , in the Port of Orotava , in the Canaries ( Robulina Canariensis , D'Orb .
For .
Canar .
p. 127 , pl. 3 .
figs. 3 , 4 ) ; and forms nearly as large are not at all uncommon in the Mediterranean , especially in mud at from 50 to 100 fathoms .
In the Adriatic , however , this , with other Cristellarit , is found of similar size in shallow water .
Of small size , these are found on our own coasts and throughout all seas .
They are fossil in very many Secondary and Tertiary deposits , but of rather small size in the older strata ; nevertheless in these latter beds they are exceedingly abundant and characteristic , not being mixed so much with species of other families of Foraminifera that have come in at a later epoch .
Genus LAGENA .
For full descriptions , general and special , of this genus we refer to Professor WILLIAMSON'S Memoir on Lagence , Annals Not .
Hist. 2 ser. vol. i. 1848 ; and his 'MonoPt .
JONES ON SOME graph of British Recent Foraminifera , ' 1857 ; to Dr. CARPENTER'S 'Introduction to the Study of Foraminifera , ' 1862 ; and to Professor REUSS'S ' Monographie der Lagenideen , ' Sitzungsber .
Akad .
Wiss .
Wien , vol. xlvi .
1 Abth .
1863 ( read June 1862 ) ; and for the strict determination of the species noticed by WALKER , JACOB , and MONTAGU , and for some special remarks on Lagence , we refer to our own Papers in the Annals Not .
Hist. 1857 , &amp;c. On account of their extreme variability ( within certain limits ) as to shape and ornament , without any definite break in the range of the modifications being recognizable , it is impossible to fix on any distinctive character , or set of characters , sufficiently limited in development to be of real importance in dividing the Lagence into even two species .
For convenience , however , we must take the best marked shapes and ornaments as indicating subordinate or varietal types , around which the diverging modifications may be grouped in an artificial classification .
This has been nearly completely accomplished , in his ' ' Monographie " above referred to , by Professor REUSS ; who , however , regards these subordinate divisions as " ; species .
" The addition of some striking varieties chiefly founcld in the warm seas , including the two-mouthed elongate forms , and the correction of sone errors in the synonymy , arising mainly from mistakes as tO WALKER'S and MONTAGU'S Lagence , would still further improve Professor REUSS'S classified and illustrated conspectus of the chief members of this group of elegant little single-chambered Foraminifera ; and , without doubt , his so-called " genus " Fissztrina is open to criticism , as we shall see further on .
Lagena , including both those that have external apertural tubes ( Ectosolenian ) and those with internal neck-tubes ( Entosolenian ) , have their chief features of shape and ornament shown by globose , ovate , and fusiform shells , either smooth , partly or wholly ribbed , reticulate , or granulate and spinose ; also by more or less compressed shells , of round or oval outline , with and without linear and reticulate sculpture ; further , the base of the shell , opposite to the aperture , becomes apiculate , produced , and perforate , in any of the above-mentioned kinds of shell , resulting in a more or less fusiform and perforate , or distomatous , condition .
Taking the smooth forms , varying from egg-shaped to flaskand amphora-shaped , with or : without long necks , we have the " laevigat , e " of REUSS , among which L. globosa , Walker and Jacob , L. Icevis , Montagu , and L. clavata , D'Orbigny , represent the three best-marked stages .
REUSS includes also the apiculate smooth forms in this group ; but we prefer to bring them into relation with the perforate forms , to which we believe they strongly tend .
Those with furrows , riblets , and ribs are the " striatee aut costate " of REUSS .
They are led by L. semistriatca , Williamson , from out of the smooth forms up to L. sulcata , Walker and Jacob , and even more coarsely ribbed shells , with modifications of form exactly corresponding to those of the smooth varieties ; but no particular stage of shape and of orname nt can be said to be permanently associated .
In the " reticulatee " ( Peuss ) the longitudinal riblets become united by cross-bars , of '3-46 FROMv THE NORTH ATLANTIC AND ARCTIC OCEANS .
varying strength ; either regularly , so as to form rectangular meshes ( L. squamosa , var .
catenulata , Williamson , and L. Melo , D'Orbigny ; or less regularly , and forming1st , either tetragonal or hexagonal network , with the meshes one above the other from the base to the top of the shell , and divided by nearly straight longitudinal ridges or walls ; 2ndly , hexagonal network , with the meshes alternately placed ( honeycombpattern ) , the walls being zigzag , and equally developed along and across ( L. sqtuamosa , var .
hiexagona , rWilliamson ) .
Lastly , hexagonal and quadrangular meshes are combined on one shell , as in L. squamosa , Montagu , sp. , which herein well serves as the subtype .
The " asperae " of REUS are such as are ornamented with granules and spines .
These exogenous shell-growths are , without doubt , equivalent to linear and reticulate ridges , variously modified ; just as hispid Nodosarince show gradual modifications of riblets and spines .
As with the " costatee " and the " reticulatae , " no particulal shape of shell specially affects this style of ornament .
REUSS'S " compresse'e " comprise the more or less flattened Lagenc , and must include those which he separates under the name Fisszrina on the supposition that they are distinguishable by their slit-like aperture .
All Lagene that are more or less compressed have the aperture correspondingly narrowed and outdrawn , just as all Nodosarice becoming flattened and " Linguline " have a more and more chink-like aperture .
The transitions are extremely gradual both into " Fissurina " and " Lingulina " respectively , and are associated indiscriminately with all the other modifications of outline and ornament that belong to the species .
The compressed Lagence usually take on one or more keel-like riblets at or near the margin , representing the local accunulation of the linear exogenous shell-growth so common in Lagena .
A similar feature occurs in the lNodosarince , where a similar ornamentation obtains .
Lastly , we propose to complete this artificial classification of the Lagence , by dividing off those that , passing from a pointed or apiculate shape at the base , ultimately present a perforate or distomatous , continuously tubular shell , more or less fusiform .
REuss 's L. apiculata represents the smooth acpiczdate forms ; D'ORBIGNY ' L. ctadata the ribbed ones ; our L. polita the smooth , and our L. distomna the costulate , Perforate forms .
( See Scheme of the Lagenw , p. 348 .
) Of Lagena it may be said , that , though apparently one of the simplest of Foraminifera , it is not one of the oldest , as far as our knowledge serves us at present .
Nor can it be regarded as an arrested Nodosaria ; rather , it may be looked on as a higher specialization of the simple repetitive Nodosarian form .
It has its isomorphisms with Nodosaria , both in ornamentation and in its flattening .
All the large Lagene are found at about 50 fathoms ( 25-70 ) in shelly sands ; the more delicate forms occur both in shallow water ( which may even be brackish ) , in the dark muds of harbours and bays , and , on the other hand , at great depths , being not uncommon in the deposits almost wholly composed either of Foraminifera alone , or of these withPteropods .
347 Scheme of the LAGEXNE .
/ r ( egg-shaped ... .
globosa , Montagu ; Williamson , Monogr .
p. 8 , pl. 1 .
figs. 15 , 16 .
smooth &lt; flask-shaped ... .
lervis , Montagu ; Williamson ( L. vulgaris ) , Monogr .
p. 3 , pl. 1 .
fig. 5 .
Kamphora-shaped .
clavata , D'Orb .
For .
Foss .
Vein .
p. 21 , pl. 1 .
figs. 2 , 3 .
( partly ... ... . .
semistriata , Williamson , Monogr .
p. 6 , pl. 1 .
figs. 7 , 9 .
Fl:[ delicately ... .
striata , D'Orb .
For .
Amer .
Mer .
p. 21 , pl. 5 .
fig. 12 . ?
* .
ribbed &lt; strongly ... ... .
SLCATA , Walker and Jacob ; Williamson ( L. vulgaris , var .
striata ) , Mor@^ r~ |a~ , nogr .
p. 6 , pl. 1 .
fig. 10 .
[ The typical Lagena .
] 'X &lt; ( coarsely ... ... actzticosta , Reuss , Sitz .
Ak .
Wiss .
Wien , vol. xliv .
p. 303 , pl. 1 .
fig. 4 .
ra r SingXle~I square meshes. .
Melo , D'Orb .
For .
Amer .
Mer .
p. 20 , pl. 5 .
fig. 9 .
SinglePi mouthed 6I reticulate &lt; 6-sided meshes. .
7hexagona , Williamson , Monogr .
p. 13 , pl. 1 .
fig. 32 .
ot6sided meshes squamosa , Montagu ; Williamson , Monogr .
p. 29 , pl. 1 .
fig. 29 . !
6-sided meshes roughf spines ... ... ..hispida , Reuss , Sitz .
Ak .
Wiss .
Wien , vol. xlv .
p. 335 , pl. 6 .
figs. 77-79 .
( ened granules ... ... aspera , Reuss , Sitz .
Ak .
Wiss .
Wien , vol. xliv .
p. 305 , pl. 1 .
fig. 5 .
( smooth ... ... . .
marginata , Montagu ; Williamson , Monogr .
p. 10 , pl. 1 .
figs. 19-21 .
striate ... ... .
radiato-marginata , Parker and Jones ( var .
nov .
) , Plate XVIII .
fig. 3 .
compressed &lt; i reticulate ... ... squamoso-marginata , Parker and Jones ( var .
nov .
) , Plate XVIII .
fig. 2 , K0 t 3-keeled ... ... trigono-marginata , Parker and Jones ( var .
nov .
) , Plate XVIII .
fig. 1 .
( ( short ... ... . .
epiculata , Reuss , Haid .
ges .
not .
Abhandl .
vol. iv .
p. 22 , pl. 1 .
fig. 1 ; Passing smooth and Sitz .
Ak .
Wiss .
Wien , vol. xlvi .
p. 318 , pl. 1 .
figs. 4-8,10,11 .
from smooth rom long ... ... ... .
distoma-polita , Parker and Jones ( var .
nov .
) , Ann. Not .
Hist. 2 ser. append-or vol. xix .
p. 279 , pl. 11 .
fig. 23 , Plate XVIII .
fig. 8 .
caudate if short .
cauldata , D'Orb .
For .
Amer .
Med. p. 19 , pl. 5 .
fig. 6 .
to distoribbed long ... ... ... .
cistoma , Parker and Jones ( var .
nov .
) , Ann. Not .
Hist. ib. fig. 24 .
matous J short ... ... ... .
listoma-aczteata , Parker and Jones ( var .
nov .
) , Plate XVIII .
fig. 5 .
K granulate X long ... .
distoma-margaritifera , ParkerandJones(var .
nov .
) , Plate XVIII .
fig. 6 .
The family Lagenida ( comprising Lagena , Nodosarinza , Orthocerita , Polymorphina , and Uvigerina ) may be said to have its central home ( bathymetrically speaking ) at about from 50 to 100 fathoms .
Of these , Poly2morphina is almost exceptional , however ; for it is , of this group , the most inclined to seek and flourish in shallow water , always avoiding abyssal depths .
Uvigerina and Lagena are more capable even than Nodosarina of living in deeper water than 100 fathoms , and of existing even at very great depths ( 2000 fathoms ) .
Uvigerina has its feeblest representatives in shallow water ; but Lagena attains as fair a size in shallow water as it does at 100 fathoms ; and at 1000 fathoms it is often in good condition .
Nodoscrince are , as to their habitat , intermediate between Polymorphince and the others .
They are of large size at 100 fathoms ; and are found occasionally , but small and rare , at 1000 fathoms ; and in shallow water they are more abundant than in the abyssal depths , and attain a larger size .
Lagena sulcata , Walker and Jacob , Var. ( Entosolenia ) globosa , Montagu .
Plate XIII .
figs. 37 a , 37 b ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
figs. 10 a , 10 b ( North Atlantic ) .
This is the simplest of the Lagenw , subspherical and Entosolenian , that is , having an intus-suscepted mouth-tube .
It is entirely devoid of ornament , and generally thinwalled .
It may be said to be a feeble form connecting L. laevis with swollen varieties of L. marginata .
L. globosa comes from 30 to 40 fathoms , and from 60 to 70 fathoms at the Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND ) ; and in both dredgings it is rather common and of middling size .
Also from Baffin 's Bay , lat. 75§ 10 ' N. , long .
60§ 12 ' W. ( PARRY ) ; here it seems to be rare , but is of large size , -a curious fact , in contrast with the occurrence of equally large individuals of this variety at very great depths ( 1080 fathoms ) in the tropical Atlantic ( lat. 2§ 20 ' N. , long .
28§ 44 ' W. ) .
This also is a world-wide and very common Lagena , as we may see by Table VII .
Professor REUSS has it fossil from the Chalk of Maestricht and of Lemberg , from the Septarian Clay of Pietzpuhl , the Salt-clay of Wieliczka , and the Crag of Antwerp ( Monogr .
Lagen .
p. 318 ) .
It is of good size and rather common in the English Crag also .
L. globosa was figured and described by WALKER and BOYS , but not named by WALKER and JACOB in KANMACHER'S edition of ADAM'S 'Essays on the Microscope , ' where the specific names given by WALKER and JACOB are recorded .
It was named by MONTAGv , 'Test .
Brit. ' p. 523 .
Plate XVI .
figs. 10 a , 10 b ( North Atlantic ) .
Equivalent to fig. 37 of Plate XIII .
, but having more neck , and like figs. 30 &amp; 31 ( L. sulcata ) in outline and in thickness of neck .
Rare and large at 415 fathoms , lat. 52§ 8 ' , long .
12§ 31 ' , North Atlantic .
Lagena sulcata , Walker and Jacob , Var. Ievis* , Montagu .
Plate XIII .
fig. 22 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
fig. 9a ( North Atlantic ) .
Fig. 22 is the common , smooth , flask-shaped Lagena of authors .
In this specimen pseudopodial passages are crowded about the lower third of the shell , the upper twothirds being destitute of such foramina .
We have observed that in Lagene such perforations occur only when the shell is of a certain thickness , considerable tracts of the shell-wall being often extremely thin and imperforate .
In the very small-ribbed varieties ( such as figs. 25-27 ) perforations are arranged in a row on each side of the costa , where its base is thick ( L. striatopunctata ) .
In the closely allied Entosolenian L. marginata also ( as in fig. 44 ) , perforations occur principally along the thickened margins , occasionally as a broad band ; though sometimes ( as in fig. 42 ) they are also scattered sparsely over the whole shell .
This is from the mixed sands from Norway above alluded to .
It is world-wide , often found at considerable depths , but shallow water appears to be its favourite habitat .
In the fossil state this smooth variety is very abundant in the Post-pliocene clays of Lincoln* Taking this as the type of Lagena , WILLIAMSON thought that &lt; laevis " was not an appropriate name for a shell that is often ornamented , and substituted the term " vulgaris " ; this unnecessary change has been unfortunately adopted by REuss ( Sitzungsb .
Ak .
Wien , vol. xlvi .
p. 321 ) .
shire and Cambridgeshire , and in the Grignon sands ( Eocene ) ; it occurs also in the Vienna Tertiaries , and ( according to REUSS , Monogr .
Lagen .
p. 322 ) in the Crag of Antwerp , the Septarium-clay of Pietzpuhl , and the Tertiary beds of Taranto ( COSTA ) .
It is rare in the English Crag : Plate XVI .
fig. 9a ( North Atlantic ) .
This figure represents a specimen of L. cemvis from the North Atlantic , where this variety is very rare and of middling size at 329 fathoms , lat. 490 26 ' , long .
490 48 ' , and rare and large at 223 fathoms , lat. 52 11 ' , long .
13§ 45 ' .
Lagena sulcata , Walker and Jacob , Var. semistriata , Williamson .
Plate XIII .
fig. 23 ( Arctic ) .
This beautiful little Lagena connects the smooth with the striated varieties .
Like the others , it varies much in shape and in the strength of its riblets ; the specimen figured by Professor WILLIAMSON ( pl. 1 .
fig. 9 ) is much more decanter-shaped than ours , and has a very long neck , with a neatly turned rim or lip ; our specimen is deficient as to this latter character .
We quite agree with Professor REUSS in grouping WILLIAMSON'S L. vulgaris , var .
perlucida ( Monogr .
p. 5 , pl. 1 .
figs. 7 , 8 ) , with this variety .
MONTAGU'S L. perlucida is a six-ribbed L. sulcata .
We found this specimen ( fig. 23 ) in the shelly sand from the Hunde Islands , Davis Straits , 50 to 70 fathoms .
Dr. WALLICH figures L. semistriata in ' The North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' pl. 5 .
fig. 17 .
It is very common to meet with Lagence , both recent and fossil , taking on striae and riblets to greater or less extent , as in this instance .
REUSS figures finely striated specimens from the Crag of Antwerp in his paper on the Lagenidce , Sitzungsb .
Wien Akad .
vol. xlvi .
pl. 2 .
figs. 18-21 .
Lagena sulcata , Walker and Jacob , Var. striatopunctata , nov .
Plate XIII .
figs. 25-27 ( Arctic ) .
We have long known this variety from the Indian Ocean on Clam shell , and at 2200 fathoms , the Red Sea ( 372 fathoms ) , South Atlantic ( 2700 fathoms ) , and from the Eocene deposits of Grignon , but it has not been hitherto figured nor described .
It is a relatively small Lagena , and is one of the most delicate .
It varies in shape , from forms more delicately elongate than the tear-shaped specimen represented by fig. 25 , to those having the usual flask-shape , with longer neck than in fig. 27 .
The ribs are comparatively strong ; they range in number from four to twelve , and in one recent specimen we have seen them spiral .
The thickened base of the ribs is neatly perforated on each side by pseudopodian foramina , which also occasionally pass through the rib itself , from within outwards .
L. striatopunctata occurs rather common at the Hunde Islands , 30 to 40 fathoms , in shelly sandy mud , and here attains a size greater than those in the Indian Ocean , or those from the inside of a Grignon shell ( p. 419 , note ) ; the specimens from the Red , Sea , however , are as large as those from Davis Straits .
350 Lagena sulcata , Walker and Jacob .
Plate XIII .
figs. 24 , 28-32 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
figs. 6 , 7 , 7a ( North Atlantic ) .
This is the typical form of Laqena ; its variations lead , in one direction , into the feebler forms ( L. semistriata , Icevis , globosa ) ; on the other hand , we have varieties with reticulated , hispid , and granular ornament ; and there are also compressed forms , and elongate varieties , departing more or less widely from the middle type presented by the ovate and characteristically costate Lagence .
Figs. 30 &amp; 31 represent the best characterized forms ( though not absolutely the largest ) that we know of in the group of Lagence .
This is shown in their boldness of growth , the strength of their ribs ( twelve to fourteen in number ) , and particularly in the radiated structure of the aperture .
This last seems to be a rare condition ; we have as yet seen it only in these specimens " , but it is one among many features showing the intimate relationship between Lagena , Nodosarina , and Polymorphina .
L. sulcata of WALKER and JACOB , in KANMACHER'S edition of ADAM'S I Essays , ' wellfigured previously by WALKER and BOYS , is a good-conditioned , strongly ribbed , and flask-shaped shell ; our figs. 28-31 present less neck ; but WILLIAMISON'S figure of L. vulgaris , var .
striata ( Monogr .
p. 6 , pi .
1 .
fig. 10 ) , and REUSS'S figure of his L. filicosta ( Monogr .
pl. 4 .
figs. 50 , 51 ) , show as much or more neck and a better lip than WALKER'S figure does ; but they are rather less globose , passing off into L. Amnphora , Reuss , and L. gracilis , Williamson .
See REUSS'S Monogr .
Lagen .
pl. 4 , where by extreme care the ovate , flask-like , and fusiform shapes of the well-ribbed L. sulcata are divided into seven " species , " according to their gradations of shape and modifications of ornament .
It is , however , next to impossible , and .
of very little use , to institute minor distinctions with these Lagence .
As explained in the Annals Not .
Hist. 1859 , 3 ser. vol. iv .
p. 336 , MONTAGU termed this form " striata , " overlooking the prior name , which alone is necessary .
Figs. 28 &amp; 29 are from the Hunde Islands , 30-70 fathoms ; and from the Arctic Ocean ( found in the mixed sands ) .
Figs. 30 &amp; 31 represent specimens from the Hunde Islands also , three gatherings by Dr. P. C. SUTHERLAND , in shelly sandy muds , from 30-70 fathoms ; within this limit L. sulcata is most common ; and is largest at the greater depth .
Perhaps the figured specimens nearest to these are L. Isabella and L. raricosta , D'Orb .
, from the Falkland Islands ( Foram .
Amer .
Merid. p. 20 , pl. 5 .
figs. 7 , 8 , 10 , 11 ) .
The almost exact counterpart of these fine large specimens we have found in the Upper Chalk of Maestricht , in the Crag of Suffolk , and in recent shelly sands from the Isle of Man .
REUSS figures ( under other names ) longand short-necked specimens , strongly ribbed , of L. sulcata from the Black Crag of Antwerp , and the Septarian Clay of Pietzpuhl and Hermsdorf .
Among the localities given by WILLIAMSON for the common L. sulcata ( Monogr .
p. 6 ) * Professor REuss figures this feature in some of the illustrations of his paper on the Lagenidce , Sitzungsb .
Ak .
Wiss .
Wien , Math.-Nat .
Cl. vol. xlvi .
1862 , Erst Abth .
p. 308 , &amp;c. pi .
1-7 .
we find the Hunde and Beechey Islands ; Petersburg , U.S. ( fossil ; Miocene ) ; and English Crag .
This Lagena does not usually occur of so large a size as some of those from Hunde Islands .
The most common condition is represented by figs. 28 &amp; 29 .
These are smaller forms wanting the radiate structure of the aperture , but not separable from the type .
Fig. 32 is a similar , but still smaller , form , and rather distorted .
These feebler varieties of L. sulcata are common in all seas wherever Lagence are found .
Plate XIII .
fig. 24 is a rather small flask-shaped Lagena with costulae , having a spiral twist , which are intermediate in strength between the delicate riblets of fig. 23 and the strong ribs of the type-form , L. sulcata .
The spiral arrangement of the costulae is very variable in different individuals collected from various places : the obliquity and curvature of these ornaments being greater or less ; and , as usual , the riblets vary in length , even in the same individual , being sometimes short , and sometimes lengthened so as to creep upwards , twining round the neck as far as the mouth .
The intervals or flutings ( sulci ) may have a width equal to , or be far greater than , the ridges or riblets .
When very small the riblets have been mistaken for minute sulci or " strise .
" With regard to the rib-ornament of Lagena , we may observe that the costation of the flatter varieties is sometimes reduced to a mere keel ( as in the Cristellarian forms of Nodosarina ) ; either as a single keel ; or a larger marginal , and a secondary , pair ; thus making six costae crowded at the edge ( as in Lagence common in the Tertiary beds of Grignon ) .
A somewhat similar condensing of the ordinary riblets into a few ( six and even three ) large ribs takes place in the cylindrical Nodosarice .
In one form of Lagena from the Grignon beds , we have three , meridional , three-edged , equal ribs ( L. trigono-marginata , Parker and Jones , Plate XVIII .
fig. 1 ) ; and in another four , strong , equal , spiral ribs ( marked by pseudopodia , as in L. striatopunctata ) , this is our L. tetragona , Plate XVIII .
fig. 14 .
Fig. 24 is one of the feeble forms of L. sulcata ( type ) , world-wide , and acclimatized to nearly all latitudes and depths ; it is common at Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND ) , at 60-70 fathoms in shelly sandy mud .
Plate XVI .
figs. 6 , 7 , 7a [ including Var. caudata , D'Orb .
] ( North Atlantic ) .
Various modifications of the typical Layena , from the North Atlantic , are shown by figs. 6 , 7 a , 7 b. Fig. 6 is like fig. 29 of Plate XIII .
, but it is rather more globose , has rather shorter ribs , and is apiculate ( non-essential differences , though the last feature makes it Var. caudata , D'Orb .
) .
Fig. 7a is smaller and less globular than figs. 30 &amp; 31 of Plate XIII .
These are rare and of middling size at 2330 fathoms , lat. 50§ 25 ' , long .
440 19 ' , North Atlantic ; rare and small at 223 fathoms , lat. 52§ 11 ' , long .
13§ 45 ' ; and rather common but small at 43 fathoms , lat. 51§ 57 ' , long .
10§ 30 ' .
Fig. 7b ( Var. caudata , D'Orb .
) has an elongate olive-like shape , and thinner cost than the others .
It was rare and of middle size at 1450 fathoms , lat. 50§ 6 ' , long .
45§ 45 ' ; and rare and small at 2350 fathoms , lat. 51§ 29 ' , long .
38§ 1 ' , North Atlantic .
352 Lagena sulcata , Walker and Jacob , Var. ( Entosolenia ) Melo , D'Orb .
Plate XIII .
figs. 33-36 ( Arctic ) .
This is L. sulcata with a modified ornamentation .
It has small transverse ridges between the ribs , connecting them , and forming subquadrate reticulations , which vary in different specimens .
Professor REUSS would retain WILLIAMSON'S term catenulata for those specimens that have the cross-bars weaker than the ridges ; probably a convenient , though hardly necessary , arrangement ; the modifications of the relative thicknesses of the longitudinal and transverse ridges are endless , varying from a network of thin lines , equal or unequal in strength , to that with broad , flat , equal ridges , and shallow squarish pits between .
Further , our figs. 33-36 , Plate XIII .
, show sufficiently clearly that no characteristic can be found in the disposition of the secondary or transverse riblets , whether end to end , or alternately between contiguous ribs ; for in the same specimen they vary as regards this arrangement .
Fig. 34 has but few of the cross-bars , and these are oblique .
In this it not only connects L. sulcata with L. Melo by the presence of secondary riblets , but the obliquity of these connecting bars shows a tendency towards the formation of the variety L. squamosa , next to be described , in which the ornament has a honeycombrather than a ladderpattern .
Dr. WALLICH figures another pretty passage-form , ' North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' pl. 5 .
fig. 23 .
Figs. 33 &amp; 35 differ in the relative size of the areole ; a condition dependent upon the number of the primary ribs , and very variable .
From the Hunde Islands , 30-70 fathoms ; and from the Arctic Ocean ( mixed sands ) .
Fig. 36 is an extremely rare monstrosity , being a Lagena with a superadded chamber .
It is from the Hunde Islands , from between 30 and 40 fathoms , shelly muddy sand ( Dr. P. C. SUTHERLAND ) .
This specimen is unique in our collection .
SOLDANI has figured a specimen extremely like this one , in his ' Testaceograph .
' vol. i. part 2 , pl. 95 .
fig. A ; named Nodosaria cancellata by D'ORBIGNY ( Ann. Sc. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 254 , No. 29 ) .
As a rule , monstrosities of the Lagena are formed by the budding , as it were , of a new chamber obliquely on the side of the original chamber ( Plate XVIII .
figs. 10-12 ) ; these are very rare .
If , however , a smooth or ribbed Lagena were to take on an additional chamber in the axis of the primary chamber , it would be scarcely distinguishable from a Nodosaria .
We possess such a form ( from the shallow water at Eastbourne ) , Plate XVIII .
fig. 9 , which we believe to be a monster of Lagena Icevis .
In the Tertiary Sands of Bordeaux also , rich with Lagenwe and small Nodosarite , very puzzling forms occur , which may either be two-celled individuals of Nodosaria scalaris , Batsch * , or possibly monstrous varieties of Lagena sulcata .
In the specimen before us ( Plate XIII .
fig. 36 ) we have a mode of ornamentation never found in any Nodosarian Foraminifer ; and therefore , whilst we have some doubt as to the two-celled forms that have either no surface-ornament , or a sculpturing common to Nodosaria and Lagena , here we have satisfactory means of diagnosis .
Everywhere in the Foraminiferal group , we have most curious instances of Isomorphismn , not merely between nearly related species , but between even the diverse forms of separate families ( as between those of the Vitreous and Porcellanous Series ) .
In the case under -notice isomorphism may be said to occur between three closely cognate specific groups : thus , the specimen of Lagena before us has imitated a Nodosaria ; whilst those already spoken of as taking on a second chamber obliquely have the habit of a young Polymorphina ( see fig. 46 ) .
Lagena Melo is not uncommon in company with other Lagence , though not so common as the smooth , sulcate , honeycombed , and marginate varieties .
For its occurrence ( recent and fossil ) in the Mediterranean Area , see Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. vol. xvi .
Table , p. 302 .
Lagena sttlcata , Walker and Jacob , Var. ( Entosolenia ) squamosa , Montagu , sp. Plate XIII .
figs. 40 , 41 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
figs. 11 a , 11 b ( North Atlantic ) .
This represents a state of ornamentation peculiar to the Lagence amongst the " hyaline , " and to certain varieties of MiliolaC Seminulum among the " porcellanous " Foraminifera .
In L. Melo the cross-bars are often weaker than the longitudinal ribs , and pass straight across from rib to rib , like the secondary veins in a monocotyledonous leaf , such as Alisma , Myrsiphyllum , &amp;c. In L. squamosa , however , not only have the secondary riblets become equal to the primary , but , by the zigzag inflection of the latter , a nearly regular hexagonally areolated ornament is produced , reminding one strongly of the polygonal meshes produced by the more perfect reticulation of the woody tubes in a dicotyledonous leaf .
Early observers , using but imperfect microscopes , compared this retose ornament with a scaly skin of a fish ( see WILLIAMSON , Monograph , p. 12 ) .
In fig. 34 we have noticed a variety of L. sulcata in which a few secondary bands had united with the main ribs , commencing , as it were , the honeycomb-pattern .
Fig. 40 , the largest of our specimens , is from the Hunde Islands* ( Dr. P. C. SUTHERLAND ) , 50 to 70 fathoms ; and the smaller one from the Arctic Ocean ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) .
L. squarnosa is of world-wide occurrence ; but , like L. Melo , is not so abundant as the long flask-shaped and the marginated forms .
REUSS has it from the Black Crag of Antwerp , and we have it fossil from Castel Arquato .
By far the bulkiest specimens of L. sguamosa that we have seen are from a Tertiary sand , which , rich in many varieties of Lagence , in Ovulites , Polymorphina , and Vertebralina , was taken from the inside of a Cerithium giganteum from Grignon ( page 419 , note ) .
In this reticulate Lagena the neck is usually intussuscepted ( Entosolenian ) ; in the large fossil form ( L. tubiJfro-squamosa , Parker and Jones , Plate XVIII .
fig. 7 ) , however , the neck is protruded in some cases to a considerable extent , and has about three 'secondary tubular apertures arising from it laterally , and almost at right angles to the main tube .
This is an isomorphism with Polymo2phina tubulosa , and with certain feeble bifurcating forms of Nodosaria from Cretaceous beds .
Plate XVI .
figs. 11 a , 11 b ( North Atlantic ) .
The specimen here figured is a little less globular than figs. 40 , 41 of Plate XIII .
, and has its reticulation rather more regular .
Rare and middle-sized at 1450 fathoms , lat. 50§ 6 ' long .
45§ 45 ' , North Atlantic .
In Dr. WALLICH'S 'North-Atlantic Sea-bed , " pl. 5 .
fig. 21 seems to be L. squamosa .
Fig. 11 a , Plate XVI .
has the six-sided meshes one above the other , touching by the parallel sides of the hexagon , and in so much corresponding with WILLIAMSON'S L. scalariformis ( Monogr .
p. 13 .
pi .
1 .
fig. 30 ) , and REUSS 's L. geometrica ( Monogr .
Lag .
p. 334 , pi .
5 .
fig. 74 ) ; but this straight meridional arrangement of the meshes is lost in the less regular reticulation of such specimens as figs. 40 &amp; 41 in Plate XIII .
, where square , six-sided , and irregular meshes occur , in straight , oblique , and irregular lines .
Professor REUSS 's unnecessary disuse of MONTAGU'S term squamosa for this varietal group leads to increased confusion in any attempt to subdivide these reticulate Lagenc , which have no natural divisions among themselves .
Lagena sulcata , Walker and Jacob , Var. ( Entosolenia ) marginata , Montagu .
Plate XIII .
figs. 42-44 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
figs. 12 a , 12 b ( North Atlantic ) .
These are flattened forms variable in shape ; generally Entosolenian , but sometimes Ectosolenian with a long delicate neck .
This compressed shape is usually associated with a trenchant margin , sometimes slightly apiculated ( as in fig. 42 ) , and sometimes dentate or rowelled ( as in WILLIAMSON'S Monograph , pl. 1 , figs. 21 a , 25 , 26 ) , reminding one of the keel of certain Cristellaric .
Occasionally in large well-developed specimens of L. marginata ( recent and fossil ) the margin is composed of a large predominant rib , strengthened by a pair of smaller costee ; showing that , as in other Foraminifera , especially the Nodosarine group , the exogenous costae gather themselves to the margins , the rest of the surface becoming less and less ornamented .
The pseudopodial pores also usually affect the neighbourhood of the thickened margin in these flattened forms , just as they follow the ridges of L. striatopunctata ( figs. 25-27 ) .
Occasionally the pseudopodia have perforated the whole surface , either sparsely , as in fig. 42 a , or freely , as we have seen in specimens from the Indian Sea .
In some rare specimens from the Coral-reefs of Australia , and fossil at Bordeaux , we see the pseudopodia begin to enter the shell-wall near the centre , and then burrow radially to escape near the margin ; the shell-surface being perfectly smooth and as polished as glass .
This is our subvariety Lagena radiato-marginata , Plate XVIII .
fig. 3 .
In the Crag of Suffolk there is another subvariety of L. marginata , in which the radiating canals are visible only at the margin .
The intussuscepted neck-tube in L. marginata is generally more or less oblique , somewhat trumpet-shaped , and of varying length ( as may be seen in figs. 42 &amp; 43 ) .
Fig. 44 has the tube partly protruded , and partly internal .
The apparent difference in the setting on of the mouth , which we formerly thought we could detect , between Entosolenia and Lagena proper ( Annals Not .
Hist. 2 ser. vol. xix .
p. 279 ) , does not really exist , for we find that in any of the subspecific groups forms may occur having either a gently tapering neck ( Ectosolenian ) , or a tube abruptly set in ( Ento-ecto-solenian ) , or a mouthtube entirely intussuscepted ( Entosolenian ) .
L. marginata is sometimes distomatous , being open at the base , and then coming under another ( artificial ) subdivision .
Between such globose forms as figs. 38 &amp; 39 , and the flattened ones ( figs. 42-44 ) , there is an almost infinite number of gentle gradations shown in specimens from all parts of the world .
The specimens figs. 42-44 occur at the Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND ) , in three dredgings at from 30 to 70 fathoms , and at Drontheim , North Cape ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) , from 30 to 200 fathoms .
Rather common .
Professor WILLIAMSON has already recorded the occurrence of L. marginata at 100 fathoms at the Hunde Islands ( Monogr .
pp. 10 &amp; 11 ) .
Like other Lagenae , it is world-wide ; and is abundant in the Tertiaries : it is rather common , for instance , in the Crag of Suffolk .
For some of its Mediterranean habitats ( recent and fossil ) see Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. vol. xvi .
p. 302 , Table .
Under the name of Oolina compressa , D'ORBIGNY described it as occurring with other Lagence at the Falkland Isles .
It is figured by J. D. MACDONALD , Assist.-Surgeon H. M. S. Herald , in the Annals Not .
Hist. 2 ser. vol. xx .
pl. 5 .
figs. 7-10 , but not described .
He found it , together with a dimorphous Uvigerina ( with loosely set , straggling chambers ) , Spiroloculina planulata , Quinqueloculina Seminulutm , and Triloculina oblonga in 440 fathoms water between Ngau and Viti-Laru , in the Feejee group of islands .
L. marginata is sometimes hexagonally areolated , like L. squamosa , but more feebly ( L. squamoso-marginata , Parker and Jones , Plate XVIII .
fig. 2 ) ; as we have seen in specimens from the Tertiary beds of San Domingo , and from the white mud of the Australian Coral-reefs .
Plate XVI .
figs. 12 a , 12 b ( North Atlantic ) .
Here we have a slight modification in the development of the keel , as compared with the equivalent specimens represented by figs. 42 , 43 , Plate XIII .
In the North Atlantic L. marginata is rare and small at 740 fathoms ; rare and middle-sized at 1450 fathoms ; rather common and large at 2350 fathoms ; rare and large at 415 fathoms ; rather common and small at 90 fathoms ; and common and small at 78 and 43 fathoms .
Dr. WALLICH figures three forms of L. marginata , 'North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' pl. 5 .
figs. 19 , 20 , 22 .
Lagena sulcata , Walker and Jacob , Var. distoma , nov .
Plate XIII .
fig. 20 ( Arctic ) .
Fig. 20 represents a long , costulated , fusiform Lagena , open at both ends , with one extremity rather more tapering than the other .
This variety of Lagena has not been previously named .
It was figured and described by us in the 'Annals Not .
Hist. ' ser. 2 .
xix .
p. 279 , pl. 11 .
f. 24 .
See also Trans. Linn. Soc. xxiv .
p. 467 , pl. 48 , f. 6 , BRADY .
356 It can only be received as a varietal form of the typical Lagena sulcata , Walker and Jacob ; but , like other noticeable varieties of Foraminifera , it requires a distinctive binomial appellation .
It is from Norway ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) ; found in mixed sands and muds dredged at various places between Drontheim and North Cape , and at depths varying from 30 to 200 fathoms ; of rare occurrence .
It is very rare in deep water off Shetland , and not uncommon off the Northumnberland coast ( H. B. BRADY ) .
The exact counterpart in form , but somewhat of less size , occurs in the clay beneath the fen near Peterborough , but not in any abundance .
A somewhat similar , large , twomouthed Lagena is found in the Sponge-sand from Melbourne , Australia , and is rather common : it is even larger than our Arctic specimens ; is never quite straight ; and , instead of being covered with delicate costulae , is richly ornamented with pearl-like grains , profusely spread over the surface , hence we call it Lagena distoma-imargaritifera , Plate XVIII .
fig. 6 .
4A smooth distomatous Lagena , of twice the size of the last mentioned , is not uncommon in the rich fossil Rhizopodal fauna so well worked out of the Crag of Sutton , Suffolk , by Mr. S. V. WOOD , F.G.S. This Lagena of the Crag of Suffolk is the largest of the elongate Lagence that we know .
Dr. CARPENTER supposes that the elongate distomatous Layence may be double Lagenws joined by their bases ( Introd .
p. 157 ) ; and Professor A. E. REUSS suggests that they are separated chambers of Nodosarie or Dentalince ( Sitzung .
Ak .
Wien , vol. xlvi .
p. 315 ) ; but in these opinions we can by no means agree .
Our L. distoma is grouped by REUSS ( loc. cit. p. 331 ) with L. gracilis , Williamson ; but our description and figure show the distinctive features .
Lagenza sulcata , Walker and Jacob , Var. distoma-polita , nov .
Plate XIII .
fig. 21 ( Arctic ) .
Another elongate , fusiform , distomatous variety of Lagena ( fig. 21 ) , but smooth instead of costulate , occurs in the same Norway dredgings , and in the Red Sea ( PULLEN'S soundings ) , on the beach near Melbourne , at Swan River , on the Australian Coral-reefs , and on the Durham Coast ( BRADY ) , and of a large size ( relatively ) in the Crag of Suffolk .
As fig. 20 represents a distomatous , striated , subcylindrical variety of L. sulcata , so fig. 21 is a smaller and smooth distomatous , but amphora-shaped , variety ; the former may be said to be , in one sense , a subvariety of L. striata , and the latter a subvariety of L. levis .
In the Norway dredgings it is smaller and rarer than L. distoma ( fig. 20 ) .
Its two extremities are not nearly so equal as those of fig. 20 , and the shell is not so cylindrical ; but in the hotter seas it is long and slender ( Plate XVIII .
fig. 8 ) .
We term it L. distoma-polita .
In some respects it has less departed , than L. distoma has , from the ordinary smooth flask-like forms , especially those which are somewhat pointed at the bulbous end , as Lagena apiczlata , Reuss ( Sitzungs .
Akad .
Wien , vol. xlvi .
p. 1 , figs. 4-8 , 10 , 11 ) .
In fact the subdivision of these varieties is artificial , and made only for the sake of convenience .
Laqena slcntcat , Walker and Jacob , Var. ( Entosolenia ) apiceulata , Reuss , et caudata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XIII .
figs. 38 , 39 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
figs. 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 ( North Atlantic ) .
The distomatous condition of Lagena also obtains in the globular forms ( included in the Oolinme of D'ORBIGNY ) , which frequently have the neck-tube lengthened inwards and free ( the characteristic of Entosolenic , Ehrenberg ) , see figs. 38 &amp; 39 .
Among these the base of the shell is frequently drawn out or apiculate ( as in fig. 39 , and in the figures of L. apicztlata , Reuss , above mentioned ) , and sometimes perforate , as it is in fig. 38 .
This also holds good in the compressed varieties ( L. maryinata ) .
Also among the flasklike Lagence we have apiculate forms , as in Oolinma ( AmJphoria ) ccaudata , D'Orb .
, whether striated , as that is , or smooth ; such also are L. apiczclatac Reuss , L. globosa , var .
lineata , Williamson ( Monogr .
pl. 1 .
fig. 17 ) , L. strztnosa , Reuss , L. mincronlate , Reuss , &amp;c. Any of these may be perforate .
See also Plate XVI .
figs. 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 .
Excepting , then , that the globular and lenticular Lacqence are frequently Entosolenian , none of these characters , whether of elongation , apiculation , and perforation , or of being smooth , striated , sulcated , honeycombed , or reticulate ( as we shall see with the ornamented forms ) , are confined to one or another set of Lagence .
No specific distinctions can be based on any of these features ; but , for convenience sake ( as among other species of Foraminifera ) , several subspecies and varieties take binomial appellations .
To avoid , however , too great an accumulation of such names we must adopt the published names whenever it is possible ; and in this case D'ORBIGNY'S Ooli2na , caudata will serve as a point around which the apiculate and distomatous Laygence , of the flask-shaped and more or less globular varieties , may be conveniently grouped .
The large subcylindrical and fusiform specimens , like a little rolling-pin in shape , well represented by fig. 20 , will stand as a distinct variety .
Fig. 38 ( Plate XIII .
) differs from L. globosa ( fig. 37 ) in being more elongate or oliveshaped , and in having a subsidiary tubular aperture at its base .
Fig. 39 has also the fundus drawn out or apiculate , but not pervious .
A large number of these apiculated forms , varying much in outline and in ornament , sometimes distomatous ( as fig. 38 ) , are not at all uncommon , and may be grouped under the name 'caudata " given by D'ORBIGNY to one of his Oolince .
Sometimes they are Entosolenian ( as is seen in fig. 39 a ) , and often they are Ectosolenian , as in D'ORBIGNY'S 0 .
caudata , Foram .
de l'Amer .
Merid. pl. 5 .
fig. 6 , a striated form .
Compare also the smooth , amphorashaped , distomatous Lagena , fig. 21 , above described .
From 30 to 40 fathoms at the Hunde Islands ( Dr. P. C. SUTHERLAND ) ; not common , small .
World-wide .
Fossil in the Tertiary formations .
Plate XVI .
figs. 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 ( North Atlantic ) .
Allied closely to fig. 21 of Plate XIII .
, but more swollen ; fig. 8 being more lainceolate in outline , and fig. 9 more flask-like , than fig. 21 ; whilst figs. 6 &amp; 7 are striated also .
These are rare and small at abyssal depths in the North Atlantic .
A very interesting group of ten Lacgence from the Falkland Isles was figured and 358 described ( as Oolinue ) by D'OJIBIGiNY in his work on the Foraminifera of South America ( Voyage dans l'Amer .
Merid. party 5me , 1839 , p. 20 ) .
These represent most of the modifications shown among the Arctic and North Atlantic forms .
Thus Oolina inornata , op .
cit. pl. 5 .
fig. 13 = Lagena globosa , Montagu .
levigata , , , fig. 3= L. levis , Montagu .
striatocollis , , fig. 14 = L. semistriata , Williamson .
striata , , , fig. 12 Vilardeboana , , , figs. 4 , 5 Isabella , , , figs. 7 , 8= L. sulcata , Walker and Jacob .
raricosta , , , figs. 10 , 11 Melo , , , fig. 9 compressa , , , figs. 1 , 2= L. marginata , Montagu .
caudata , , , fig. 6 Genus POLYMORPHINA .
Polymorphina lactea , Walker and Jacob , sp. Plate XIII .
figs. 45 , 46 ( Arctic ) .
Of the hyaline Foraminifera , Polymorphina alone forms itself persistently of a double row of alternating opposite chambers ; except very rarely , when its latest chambers are uniserial ( Dimorphina ) .
Uvigerina ( a closely related form ) has normally three chambers in one turn of the spire , forming a triple series Df alternating chambers .
Textularia has normally a double series of chambers alternating with each other , much as in Polymorphina , but more regular in arrangement , and having a far more gradual increase of size .
Textularia , however , often begins with a triserial ( Verneuiline ) arrangement , such as is normal in Uvigerina ; and , like the latter , it often finishes its shell with a single row of chambers ( Bigenerina ) .
In Polymorphina , although the arrangement of the chambers is essentially biserial , yet they are very apt to grow so loosely that a cross section through the shell will often expose three or more chambers .
This shell is normally drop-shaped , tear-shaped , and pyriform ; it may , however , become flattened out into the proportions of the thick leaf of a succulent plant , or be elongated into an irregular oblong , somewhat like a wheat-ear or grass-spike .
These longer forms ( such as fig. 48 ) are isomorphic with Textularia proper .
Of its Dimorphine condition there are Nodosarian , Textularian , and Uvigerine isomorphs .
The aperture of Polymorphina agrees with that of the Nodosarinw , and of the wellgrown Lagence ( such as figs. 30 &amp; 31 ) , being radiated or plicated , the sarcode passing through a circular series of slits .
The actual centre of the aperture is sometimes filled up with a bead of calcareous matter ( fig. 52 b ) , and this occurs in Nodosarince also .
We have seen above that the varieties of Lagence are almost equally divided among those which have a gently graduating external neck , those having an entirely internal neck-tube , and those in which the tube is partly extruded and partly internal .
In Polymorphina also this may be said to hold good to some extent ; for in small and in young specimens ( fig. 46 ) we see the Entosolenian tube , just as in the globular and flat LCaence 3c2 ( figs. 39 , 42 , 43 ) .
Indeed in specimens having five chambers we have distinguished a tube in each chamber .
In large individuals the apertural plicae grow quite as far into the chamber as they project outwards .
Thus the Entosolenian character of aperture is generally present ; and though the mouth does not pout so much as in many of the Nodosarice and Lagence , yet the last chamber not unfrequently sends out a dendritic growth of exserted apertural tubes-a character noticed by us in a large Lagena also common in the Tertiary beds of Grignon ( see p. 354 ) .
Nor is this feature unrepresented among the Nodosariwe , as shown by the dichotomous Dentaclina actleatae , D'Orb .
, of the Chalk and Gault .
The shell of Polynorphina has usually a glassy smoothness ; it rarely shows any tendency to striation ; when this occurs , it is longitudinal , but feeble , and then arises from , apparently , the fusion of granules arranged in rows ; whereas in the three most cognate species ( Nodosarina , Lagena , and Uvigerina ) striation and strong costation of the chamber-walls are extremely common .
It has , however , at times another mode of ornament , such as is not unfrequently met with in the Nodosarine and Uvigerine groups , and especially in the Globigerinw of the deep seas in low latitudes , and in Calcarina , namely , prickles or long needles of shell-substance bristling over the surface .
Another surface-ornament is common in large well-grown Polypnorh/ inw , especially those of the Crag of Suffolk ( Mr. S. V. WOOD'S Collection ) , which have a rich granulation of clear , polished , calcareous beads and lobules scattered over the whole surface , but most strongly on the older chamber-walls .
A like granular ornament is common in the very large distomatous Lagenwe from the Australian shores ( as already mentioned ) .
The best example of the development of this particular ornament is seen in the great explanate Cristellarice of the Tertiary beds of Malaga , Sienna , and Turin .
In the form before us ( figs. 45 &amp; 46 ) we have a subglobular condition of P. lactea , Walker and Jacob .
Fig. 46 is the young , showing , by transparency , the long Entosolenian neck , as well as the radiated aperture .
It has but two chambers , the second of which is relatively small ; in after-growth the chambers increase in size rapidly but irregularly , and overlap each other in proportion to the gibbosity of the shell .
We possess complanate or leaf-shaped forms , such as are figured by D'ORBIGNY in his For .
Foss .
Vienne , pl. 13 .
figs. 25-30 , in which there is scarcely the least overlapping of the chambers , The two chambers of fig. 46 are the " primordial " and " circumambient " chambers of other polythalamous Foraminifera .
We have seen a similar double-celled condition of shell belonging to young forms within the chambers of the mother-shell , in Truncatulina lobatula ( from south coast of England ) , Peneroplis pertusus ( from India ) , and in large Orbitolites complanatus ( from Fiji ) .
In the last ( some specimens of which were full an inch in diameter ) we found the mother-chambers , towards the periphery of the shell , crowded with young ones* .
To us it appears that the Polythalamous Foraminifera are often , if not generally , viviparous , and that the young shell , when hatched , consists of two chambers .
We think that the subsequent chambers of these Polythalamians are not always formed slowly , one by one , but sometimes , at least , laid down , and marked off by the growth of two or more septa , at the same time ; calcification beginning at points nearest to the earlier chambers , the thickness of the chamber-wall being in direct ratio with its age .
This mode of growth of more than one chamber at a time seems to be proved by the curious manner in which the sarcode passes , by many bundles , from the older chambers into the newest in those individuals of Polymorphina lactea which throw out tubular staghorn processes from their last chamber ( P. tu6bulosa , D'Orb .
) ; for , as may be seen in fig. 52 , the newest chamber , namely , that which bears the cervicorn appendage , communicates , not merely with the ante-penultimate chamber , but , by a double row of lateral apertures , with all the chambers occurring on its own side , namely those which it overlaps .
The communication of the last , outer , wild-growing chamber with the penultimate is not only by means of this double row of apertures , but ( as is seen in fig. 52 b ) by the ordinary radiated mouth .
Another view , however , may be taken of the growth of such an individual as fig. 52 : thus , we may suppose that absorption has taken place , opening foraminal communications between the last and the former chambers .
Either hypothesis would explain the fact , -that , as we find on breaking open very large specimens of the normal P. la'ctea , the stolon-passages between the older chambers are very free and patulous ; whereas the terminal mouth of the last chamber presents the radiate condition ; the only passage here for the sarcode being the thin slits around the strong growth of hyaline shelly matter in the mouth .
Fig. 45 represents the group of individuals to which D'ORBIGNY applied the subgeneric term Globulina ; but neither this term nor that of Gtuttzlina ( another so-called subgenus ) can be separated from the ordinary , more or less oval , more or less pyriform , or more or less elongate varieties of Polymorphina lactea .
Figs. 45 &amp; 46 are from the Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND ) , in three dredgings from 25-70 fathoms .
Rather common and of small size .
Also from the Norway coast ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) in the mixed sands .
Polymorphina lactea , Walker and Jacob , Var. compressa , D'Orbig .
Plate XIII .
figs. 47-51 ( Arctic ) .
These are more or less flattened forms , ranging themselves : around P. compressa , D'Orb .
( For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 12 .
figs. 32-34 ) , though not exactly identical with that variety of P. lactea , In the relative length of the chambers , their setting on , and in the degree of exposure of the plaiting by the alternation of the double series of chambers , these Polymorphinw are so very variable , that we have taken the flattened condition as a characteristic , and out of the very many names they have received , we have chosen " P. compressa " as a secondary centre around which to collect a certain series of more or less elongate and compressed forms , more elongate than P. lactea proper , and less compressed than P. co2nplanata , D'Orb .
( For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 13 .
figs. 25-30 ) ; the latter being the centre of the group of leaf-like forms .
Fig. 47 , though not so flat as D'ORBIGNY'S figure of P. compressa , comes nearest to it , of these before us .
Fig. 48 , somewhat Textularian in its make , connects P. conpressa with D'ORIGNY'S P. ThoumiZi ( Modele , 23 ) : the latter , however , is still more elongate and less compressed .
In the Crag of Suffolk this elongation advances to such an extent that the shell at first sight looks like a Dentalin , a : it has become the isomorph of the elongate Virguline Buliminna of the English Gault and the German Pliner-Mergel .
Figs. 49 &amp; 51 connect P. comtpressa with D'ORBIGNY'S P. Pro6lenta ( Modele , 61 ) .
Fig. 50 , composed of about three chambers , is a young or an arrested individual of the compressed type .
At the Hunde Islands , 30-40 fathoms , these forms of P. compressa occur rare and small .
From the Norwegian coast we have them , rather common and small , in the mixed sands .
These are amongst the commonest forms of PolymorpAina from the Lower Secondary period up to the Recent .
Polynzorphina lactea , Walker and Jacob , Var. tubtulosa , D'Orbigny .
Plate XIII .
fig. 52 a-d ( Arctic ) .
This condition of P. lactea we have already spoken of .
We may add that the tubular appendages are found on Polymorphinmo of various shapes , but generally on the more or less spheroidal , or at least ovoidal , forms ; and it is only for the sake of convenience that it can be regarded as a subcentral group and distinguished by a binomial appellation .
D'ORBIGNY'S figured and named specimen ( For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 13 .
figs. 15 , 16 ) has priority among several .
Fig. 52 a-G is from Bred Sound , Finmark ( MAcANDREW and BARRETT ) , 30 fathoms .
The fragment fig. 54 d is from some other part of the Norwegian coast .
Tubulose individuals of P. lactea occur common in the Cretaceous deposits ; are very common in some of the Grignon and other Tertiary beds ; and are very large in the Crag of Suffolk ( Mr. S. V. WooD 's Collection ) .
In the Australian coast-sand ( Melbourne ) living individuals of large size are abundant ; and fine specimens live in the Bay of Biscay ( 50-60 fathoms ) and in the English Channel .
One large and interesting specinen that we have obtained in the shelly sand off Plymouth is adherent to a fragment of a bivalve shell ; its tubular arms spreading radially on the shell , like the wild-growing cells of a Planorbtlina or of a Carpenteria .
Professor WILLIAMSON figures a fine tubulose British Polyrnorpina ( P. lactea , var .
fistulosa , Monogr .
fig. 150 ) , and also a small plano-convex , crenately winged form ( P. lactea , var .
concava , fig. 151 ) , which he regards ( with much probability ) as having been parasitic .
We have met with similar forms in sands of shallow waters .
362 Genus UViGERINA .
Uviqgerina pygmcna , D'Orbigny .
Plate XIII .
figs. 53-57 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 65 a , 65 b ( North Atlantic ) .
Uvigerinc makes up its shell normally of three series of inflated chambers , alternating somewhat irregularly on an elongated spire .
Its aperture is a very distinct and round passage , generally tubular ( Ectosolenian ) and lipped .
The lip is sometimes faintly toothed , showing a relationship to the radiated mouth of the PolymPorphinca Lancenc , and Nodosarina .
To the last genus it is mostly related by its style of ornament , which , as a rule , consists of strong well-marked costae , parallel to the axis of the shell .
In all large well-developed individuals , whether of typical or dimorphous growth , these costoe are distinct and strong , just as obtains in the large Lagence and Nodosarince ( Plate XVIII .
figs. 16 , 17 ) .
In weaker individuals the ribbing is less prominent and often becomes obsolete in the newer chambers ( Plate XIII .
figs. 56 &amp; 57 ) .
Certain dimorphous forms are quite smooth ( Plate XVIII .
fig. 18 ) .
As in Xodosarice , some Uvigerince take on the aculeate or hispid ornamentation ; the ribs of each chamber either sending back one or more spines , or breaking up into prickles ; or the whole surface of the shell may become spinose and bristly .
The hispid forms of Uvigerina are generally found at great depths ( common at 1000 fathoms in the Tropical Atlantic , Indian Ocean , &amp;c. ) , and are frequently angular in section , belonging to the variety U. angulosa , W\illiamson .
In deep water also the large Uvigerinwe are frequently elegantly racemose , with a prickly surface ; the chambers are globular and distinct , and the tubular mouth much elongated : this botryoidal form is , as far as shape is concerned , the most deserving of the generic term " Uviqerina " given originally to the really typical costate U. pygncea , such as we havebefore us .
Large Uv gerinc of the typical form are especially abundant and well-grown in the southern and eastern parts of the Mediterranean , at from 100-300 fathoms : the home of Uvigerina seems to be in warm seas at this depth , but it is found also in shallower water ( Coralline-zone ) , but is then of the small size .
Feeble forms creep upwards , as it were , into shallow water , and downwards to great depths ; still the abyssal forms predominate over the littoral , the latter retaining the greatest resemblance to the typical U. jpygnmcea ; whilst the deep-water forms , whether angular or inflated , are prickly , the angular forms in shallow water are ribbed .
In the elongated form , of feeble growth and faint striation ( fig. 57 ) , we may see a tendency to a biserial andeven a uniserial growth ; the chambers ceasing to retain a definite triserial alternation ; and , becoming loose in their setting on , they present such a condition as leads ultimately to a uniserial row of chambers in the newer part of the shell .
Such a dimorphous condition is clearly seen in certain figures , given by SOLDANI , of Italian Uvigerince , named U. nodosa by D'ORBIGNY ( Ann. Sc. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 269 ) ; and we also possess similar forms both from the recent and the fossil deposit of the Mediterranean area , Plate XVIII .
fig. 15 .
These dimorphous specimens present a growth of either one , two , or three chambers in a straight line in the younger part of the shell 363 r. JONES ON SOME ( still retaining the same kind of aperture ) , and with or without the intervention of a biserial arrangement of chambers .
This dimorphism of the Uvigerine type is seen best , however , in specimens from shell-beds in the tropical and subtropical parts of the Indian and Atlantic Ocean ; but in these the triserial mode of growth is obsolete , and even the biserial is but feebly developed ; the result being a shell which , at first sight , might easily be mistaken for a Nodosaria Raphanus .
Close examination , however , shows the short , wide , strongly labiate aperture of Uvigerina , markedly developed , and a plaiting of the early chambers* .
D'ORBIGNY has figured , under the name of Sagrina pulchella , Foram .
Cuba , pl. 1 , figs. 23 , 24 , a specimen which was either the young , or an arrested individual of such a biformed Uvigerina .
Bigenerina amongst the Textulariwc is the isomorph of the above described dimorphous Uvigerina ( Sagrina ) .
Not only is our Nodosariform Uvigerina connected with the typical U. pygYnwea ( figs. 53-56 ) through Sagrica puzchella , D'Orb .
, but an intermediate condition between it and the feebler dimorphs of the Mediterranean area occurs in the mud brought up by the sounding-lead from the Abrohlos Bank ( U. dimorpha ) .
Altogether , this latter group of forms shows how great the affility is between the always hyaline Uvigerina and the porous sandy Textularia .
The specimens figured in Plate XIII .
figs. 53-57 are very common forms .
The finest individuals ( figs. 53 , 54 ) are from the mixed sands of the Norwegian coast .
The feebler specimens ( figs. 55-57 ) are common in shell-sands from 30-70 fathoms at the Hunde Islands , Davis Straits .
In the North Atlantic Uvigerincc pygnmcea ( Plate XVII .
fig. 65 ) is large and common throughout the eastern marginal plateau ; wanting at great depths ; rare and middlesized north of the Bank ; and rather common and of middle size in Trinity Bay .
Uvigerina pygmcea is world-wide in its distribution , and goes back at least to the Middle Tertiary period .
Uvigerina pygncea , D'Orb .
, Var. angulosa , Williamson .
Plate XIII .
fig. 58 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 66 a , 66 b ( North Atlantic ) .
Of this we have spoken above , page 363 .
This compressed condition turns up wherever Uvigerince are at all common ; the ribbed or striated forms belonging to moderate depths .
In the mixed sands from Norway specimens were rather common .
In the North Atlantic U. angulosa is rare and small ; it occurs on the eastern marginal plateau to the north of the Bank , and in Trinity Bay ; but was not found in the Abyssal area .
Genus ORBULINA .
Orbulina universa , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVI .
figs. 13 , 14 ( North Atlantic ) .
This is a monothalamous hyaline Foraminifer , globular and porous , of world-wide dis* A ribbed form from the East Indian Seas is our Uvigerina ( Sagrina ) Raptanus , Plate XVIII .
figs. 16 , 17 ; and a smooth one from the Abrohlos Bank is our U. ( S. ) dimorphia , Plate XYIII .
fig. 18 .
364 tribution , found in shallow water in the Adriatic and other warm seas , but usually frequent on sandy and muddy bottoms at not less than 30 fathoms and down to at least 2350 fathoms .
It is richest in numbers where there is nothing but the calcareous matter of Foraminifera .
In the shallow water of our coasts Orbulina is poorly developed .
We have not recognized it fossil in strata older than the Middle Tertiary period .
In the North Atlantic the deep-sea soundings indicate that at 78 , 90 , 223 , 329 , 1660 , 1950 , and 2050 fathoms 0 .
ntiversa is rare and of middling size ; at 2350 fathoms it is middle-sized and rather common ; at 1776 and 2050 it is middle-sized and common ; at 415 fathoms it is large and common ; and at 1750 and 2176 fathoms it is large but rare .
Genus GLOBIGERINA .
Globigerina bulloides , D'Orbigny .
Plate XIV .
figs. 1 &amp; 2 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
fig. 15 , and Var. in/ fata , figs. 16 , 17 ( North Atlantic ) .
[ See also Professor HUXLEY'S Appendix to Commander DAYMAN'S Admiralty Report , p. 65 , pl. 4 .
] Globigerina btzlloides is the type of a distinct species , which is related to the monothalamous Orbtulina on one hand , and to the polythalamous Rotalince on the other .
Its shell is composed of a series of hyaline and perforated chambers , of a spheroidal form , arranged in a spiral manner , and each opening by a large aperture around the umbilicus , in such a manner that the apertures of all the chambers are apparent on that aspect of the shell , and form a large " umbilical vestibule .
" This opening of the chambers into one common vestibule is also characteristic of Carpenteria balaniformis .
The extraordinarily wild manner of growth of the latter is , to a certain degree , represented in many of the larger specimens of Globigerina , which , losing the vesicular or botryoidal form , become flat , outspread , and loosely lobulated or palmate .
Although in these respects , and also in the close resemblance of the young shells , these two species show a near alliance , yet Globigerina seems , on the whole , from its general neat habit of growth , and from its peculiar varietal groups , to be most nearly related to the Rotalince ( Planorbulina and Discorbina ) .
In fact , Globigerina and its varieties form an interesting group , which may be regarded as central to the Planorbuline and Discorbine species and their varieties , as well as certain species ( Pullenia and SpJheroidina ) which were not until lately recognized as related to the Rotaline .
The chief varieties of Globigerina are peculiarly isomorphic of these other forms .
The large , extremely thick-walled , compact Globigerince , of the deepest waters , may stand as the isomorphs of the equally abyssal solid specimens of Sphcroidina ; nor are the two forms dissimilar at first sight .
The smooth-walled compact Globigerince , such as have been named Gi .
inflata , D'Orb .
( Foram .
Canaries , pl. 2 .
figs. 7-9 ) , come near in structure to the highly polished , flush-celled , somewhat gigantic specimens of Pullenia obliqzilocztlata , Parker and Jones* ( the type of which is the so-called Nonionina sphmcroides , D'Orb .
) from great depths .
We have already mentioned the wild-growing Globigerina helicina , D'Orb .
Ann. Sc. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 277 , after SOLDANI ) as representing in its own group a type of structure which has its completeness in Carpenteria .
Like certain varieties of Planorbbzlina farcta , hereafter to be described ( Plate XIV .
figs. 7-11 ) , and of Discorbina Turbo , Globigerina has nearly symmetrical ( nautiloid ) varieties ( GI .
hirsuta , D'Orb .
For .
Canar .
pl. 2 .
figs. 4-6 , and GI .
pelagica , D'Orb .
, sp. , For .
Am .
Mer .
pl. 3 .
figs. 13 , 14 ) : by the possession of these forms Glo6igerina touches isomorphically several other specific types , amongst which is Pullenia , its near relation , above referred to , typically symmetrical .
Such an assumption of symmetry in these simple , vesicular , discoidal Foraminifers is interesting , as suggestive of a tendency to attain the more regular nautiloid form , normal amongst the higher forms , such as XNumnuldina , C6ycloclypeus , Heterostegina , Polystomella , and others , which , on their part , when feebly developed , are apt to be asymmetrical .
Indeed in this respect we have a connecting link between the higher and the lower group in Amphistegina , a congener of the true Nummulince , but simpler in structure and essentially asymmetrical .
The foregoing observations on the relationships of Globigerina will assist us in elucidating the alliances of many of the species and varieties about to be described , lying between the simple monothalamous Orbulina and those highest in the scale ( Polystomella and Nnummnuina ) , which give the fullest expression of the type of structure possessed by this Rhizopodous order .
The affinities and isomorphisms of Globigerina , however , are not exhausted by the consideration of the groups above referred to ; for the small and feebly developed individuals of the typical Globigerina butlloides , which are so extremely abundant in the deep seas , mixed with large specimens , are imitated by the small , vesicular , weakly grown Textzlarie , Uvigerinw , Bulimince , and Cassiduline ; and we might even include the dwarf vesicular Littuolce of deep waters ( see Plate XV .
figs. 46 , 47 , and Plate XVII .
figs. 96-98 ) .
Figs. 1 &amp; 2 are relatively small specimens of Globigerina bUlloides , such as are found in shallow seas all the world over , and also ( as above mentioned ) in abyssal depthls , where they are in company with large individuals ; the latter live in deep water only .
There is but little exogenous growth on the primary perforated chamber-wall of such Globigerinse as those before us ; but in deeper water , as a rule , a large proportion of the individuals have a thick deposit of exogenous shell-matter , which generally rises into reticulate ridges , surrounding the pseudopodian passages , and giving the surface a roughly honeycombed appearance .
Sometimes these ridges are developed into asperities , prickles , needles , and even large tubules .
The latter are sparsely scattered ; are formed of the divergent growth of the whole areola around the pseudopodian passage ; and occur on the symmetrical , nautiloid forms , such as occur at 1600-1700 fathoms between Malta and Crete .
The acicular appendages arise at the junctions , or on the edges of the areolae , and are found on some symmetrical varieties .
Such are very abundant in the Red Sea at from 300-700 fathoms ; and here the needles are often so long on the peripheral parts of the older chambers that they subdivide the large arched aperture of the last chamber into narrow oblong openings .
366 TtIE NORTH ATLANTIC AND ARCTIC OCEANS .
The chamber-walls attain their greatest thickness in those close-set and rough-shelled varieties which occur in great abundance at from 1600 to 2400 fathoms in the North Atlantic , between Ireland and Newfoundland ( Plate XVI .
fig. 15 ; and Professor HUXLEY'S plate in the Admiralty Report on the Telegraph-soundings in the North Atlantic ) , and at lat. 5§ 37 ' S. , long .
61§ 33 ' E. in the Indian Ocean ( 2200 fathoms ) .
These are the nearest isomorphs of Sphwroidina dehiscens , Parker and Jones , Plate XIX .
fig. 5 , which is found with them in the tropical parts of the Atlantic and in the Indian Ocean , and not in the North Atlantic .
Those smooth forms ( GGl .
inflata , D'Orb .
, from the Canaries ) having moderately thick chamber-walls , and which are nearest to Pullenia in style of growth , abound in the North Atlantic ( Plate XVI .
figs. 16 , 17 ) , and are very plentiful in the Southern Mediterranean , at about 700 fathoms , and in the Indian Ocean , lat. 360 58 ' S. , long .
51§ 49 ' E. ( 900 to 1120 fathoms ) .
Gi .
bulloides is small and very abundant at 2700 fathoms in the South Atlantic ; the greatest depth for its habitat that we know of .
The complanate form of Globigerina , with more or less limbate septal lines , is figured by D'ORBIGNY , as living on the coast of Cuba , with the name of Rosalina Linncei ( Foram .
Cuba , pl. 5 .
figs. 10-12 ) .
It is common in the Chalk , and is known as Sosalina marginata , Reuss ( Charakt .
Kreid .
Ostalpen , Denksch .
Akad .
Wien , vii .
pl. 26 .
fig. 1 ) , and Rosalina canaliculata , Reuss ( Ibid. fig. 4 ) .
Plate XIV .
figs. 1 &amp; 2 represent specimens obtained at three places among the Hunde Islands by Dr. P. C. SUTHERLAND ( 28-30 , 30-40 , and 60-70 fathoms ) , rather common and small ; and others found ( rare and very small ) in the most northern soundings we have examined , namely , Baffin 's Bay , lat. 76§ 30 ' N. , long .
77§ 52 ' W. ( PARRY ) at 150 fathoms ; and others from the coast of Norway , few and small in the mixed sands ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) .
In the North Atlantic Globigerina bulloides , including its variety Gl .
inflata , D'Orb .
( Plate XVI .
figs. 16 , 17 ) , is spread broad-cast ; but is abundant and of good size only at the greater depths ( " Virginian Province , " and the " Celtic " and " Boreal " abyssal areas , at upwards of 2000 fathoms in some places ) , and at 223 , 338 , and 415 fathoms on the eastern marginal plateau : elsewhere on this plateau it is small and varying in numbers .
On the western plateau ( north of the Bank of Newfoundland ) it is small , though sometimes common ; whilst in Trinity Bay it is very small and very rare .
The oldest known Globigerinwe are those in the Gault .
Globigerina bulloides , Var. inflata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVI .
figs. 16 , 17 ( North Atlantic ) .
In this Globigerina ( For .
Canar .
p. 134 , pl. 2 .
figs. 7-9 ) , peculiar for its large gaping aperture , the newer chambers are relatively larger than usual , and cover the former ones to a great : extent ( see figs. 16 , 17 ) .
It is variable in its details , and does not differ specifically from Gl .
bulloides .
It has already been referred to above ( page 365 ) .
This variety abounds and is large on the North Atlantic , and on deep muddy bottoms in the Mediterranean ( DAYMAN'S soundings ) .
Professor BAILEY noticed it in soundings from off the Coast of New Jersey ( see Appendix ) .
D'ORBIGNY had it from .
the Canaries ; it is plentiful in the Indian Ocean ( see above ) .
3D2 367 From some mounted specimens lent to us by Mr. F. GALTON , F.R.S. , we may add the following notes as to the Globigerince of the North Atlantic .
See also Appendix I. At 1650 fathoms the deep-sea ooze consists chiefly of Globigerince , many of them of large growth ( as if well-nourished ) , thick-shelled and rough , the sarcode remaining ( brown ) in most of the larger shells ; and at the same time there are very many small and delicate individuals ( just as is the case with other Foraminifera , -minute dwarfs accompanying full-grown specimens of one and the same type ) .
With Globigerina at this depth occur a rather small Rotalia Beccarii , a very small Bulinmina ( ?
) , and siliceous Sponge-spicules .
At 1600 fathoms Globigerince as above , with a small Spirillina .
At 1500 fathoms Globigerince appear as at 1650 fathoms .
The thickness of the chamberwall is relatively great .
A sponge-gemmule was also found here .
Dr. G. C. WALLICH has well illustrated Globigerina and Orbutlinza in plate 6 ( undescribed ) of the First Part of ' The North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' 1862 .
Globigerince are ( as is well known ) among the most characteristic of deep-sea Foraminifera ( Abyssina ) ; and these form a group that love to live at from 1000 to 2500 fathoms .
They are Pullenia , Sphceroidina , Globigerina , and its monothalamous congener Orbulina The first three are always rare and small in shallow water ; and Orbulina usually has similar conditions .
Cassidulina is also an abyssal form ; but lives well up to 30 fathoms , though in flatter and more delicate forms than it has lower down .
Genus PULLENIA .
Pullenia sphceroides , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 43 a , 43 b ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
fig. 53 ( North Atlantic ) .
For an account of Pullenia , one of the deep-sea forms , probably allied to Globeriyina , though resembling Nonionina , see CARPENTER'S Introd .
Foram .
p. 184 ; it is the Nonionina sphaeroides , D'Orb .
Modeles , No. 43 , Ann. Sc. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 293 , No. 1 ; and N. bu6lloides of the same author , For .
Foss .
Vienn .
p. 107 , pl. 5 .
figs. 9 , 10 , and Ann. Sc. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 293 , No. 2 .
Our figure 43 is of normal shape , but small , size , as are all those which we find in the Arctic and North Atlantic seas .
Another form of Pullenia has the chambers set on obliquely ( P. obliquiloculata , Parker and Jones , Plate XIX .
fig. 4 ) .
In the mixed sands from Norway Pullenia sph ?
eroides is rather common and small : it is rare and small , often very small , at 1776 , 2035 , 2176 , and 2330 fathoms in the North Atlantic ; also at 1203 fathoms north of Newfoundland Bank , and at 200 fathoms on the plateau off Ireland .
Fig. 53 is the Nonionina quinqueloba , Reuss , Zeitsch .
Deutsch .
Geol .
Ges .
vol. iii .
pl. 5 .
fig. 31 , an enfeebled , somewhat flattened form , of looser growth than usual .
It occurs also in the Eocene Clays of Hants and the Isle of Wight ( H. B. BRADY ) , in the ' Septarian Clay ' ( Eocene ) near Berlin ( REUss ) , and recent in the Red Sea .
Pullenia sphceroides lives in the Mediterranean , the ed Sea , and South Atlantic at from 30-320 fathoms .
368 Genus SPHEROIDINA .
Sphceroidina bulloides , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XVI .
fig. 52 ( North Atlantic ) .
This peculiar species ( of which Sph .
dehiscens is another variety ) is related to Globigerina ; and , together with Pallenia , Orbulina , and Globigerina , essentially of deepwater habits , is small and rare in the North Atlantic , but large in the Tropics .
Sphwroidina has a small spire , somewhat irregularly wound , the vesicular chambers ( of which only three or four are visible ) hiding the spiral arrangement .
REUSS has figured many specimens ( Spy .
Austriaca ) in pl. 51 , Denkschr .
K. Akad .
Wissen .
Wien , vol. i. 1850 .
Sphiwsroidina dehliscens , Parker and Jones , is largish , thick-shelled ; the chambers not closely applied , and their edges roughly everted and jagged ( Plate XIX .
fig. 5 ) .
Sph .
biulloides is rare and small at 223 fathoms on the marginal plateau off Ireland ; very rare and very small at 2330 fathoms in mid-ocean .
In the Mediterranean it occurs at 320 fathoms , in the Red Sea at 372 , in the Tropical Atlantic at 1080 , in the Southern Atlantic at 260 and 940 , and in the Indian Ocean at 2200 fathoms .
Genus TEXTULARIA .
Textularia agglutinans , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
fig. 21 ( Arctic ) .
Textularia agglutinans , D'Orbig .
( Foram .
Cuba , p. 144 , pl. 1 .
fig. 17 , 18 , 32-34 ) , in its ordinary and moderately developed condition , gives a fuller idea of the species than any other variety .
We have it in the mixed sands from Norway rather common and of middle size ; and at the Hunde Islands it is small , rare at 30-40 fathoms , rather common at 25-30 fathoms .
Textularia agglutinans is world-wide ; and has its representatives in many Tertiary and Secondary strata .
Textularia agglutinans , Var. abbreviata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVII .
figs. 76 a , 76 b ( North Atlantic ) .
T. al-breviata , D'Orb .
( For .
Foss .
Vein .
p. 249 , pl. 15 .
figs. 7-12 ) , is a short form , intermediate to T. gibbosa , D'Orb .
Modeles , No. 28 , and T. agglutinans , D'Orb .
, and smaller than either ; but , like them , it is sandy .
We have it from the marginal plateau of the Atlantic off Ireland , where it is common and middle-sized at 43 and 78 fathoms ; rather common and middle-sized at 90 fathoms ; rare and small at 223 fathoms ; rather common and small at 415 fathoms .
T. abbreviata has much the same range as its type T. agglutinans..extularia agglutinans , D'Orbigny , Var. Sagittula , Defrance .
Plate XVII .
figs. 77 a , 77 b ( North Atlantic ) .
T. Sagittula , Defrance ( see 'Annals Not .
Hist. ' 3rd ser. vol. xi .
p. 91 , &amp;c. ) , is the common , often small , sandy , triangular variety of T. agghtinazns , D'Orb .
369 Our figures indicate a normal specimen of this form from the marginal plateau off Ireland , where it is common and of middle size at 78 fathoms .
T. Sagittula is world-wide , and common in many Tertiary deposits .
CTextularial agglutinans , Var. lygmnea , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
fig. 22 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 78 a , 78 b ( North Atlantic ) .
This is the common , small , hyaline or clear-shelled , perforate Textularia .
; its sandy analogue is T. Sagittula .
Normal specimens are figured here .
We have it in the mixed sands from Norway , common and middle-sized .
In the North Atlantic it is rather common and small at 78 and 90 fathoms on the marginal plateau ; and it is rare and small at 200 and 415 fathoms , rare and middling at 223 and 338 fathoms on the same ground : in the abyssal depth ( Boreal ) it is rare and small at 2033 fathoms ; and nearer to the Bank it is very rare and very small at 1450 fathoms .
T. pygmwa , n D'Orb .
Modeles , No. 7 ( the same as T. aciculata , D'Orb .
, Ann. Sc. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 263 , pl. 11 .
figs. 1-4 ) , has a distribution similar to that of the other chief varieties .
Textularia agglztinans , Var. carinata , D'Orb .
Plate XVII .
figs. 79 a , 79 b ( N. Atlantic ) .
The shell ofT .
carinata , D'Orb .
( For .
Foss .
Vienn .
p. 247 , pl. 15 .
figs. 32-34 ) , is flatter than that of either T. pygna or T1 Sagittula ; the edges becoming very thin and more or less produced into a sharp keel ; and the chambers extend backwards irregularly .
The specimen figured is a small and feeble individual of this variety .
Still more flat*tened is our new variety T. Folium , from the Australian coast , Plate XIX .
fig. 19 .
T. carinata in the London Clay frequently has a spiral arrangement of its earliest chambers , such as is seen also in many other varieties of Textularia .
In fig. 79 aa faint tendency to a coil is seen at the apex of the specimen .
On the marginal plateau off Ireland T. carinata occurs rather common and small at 78 and 90 fathoms .
It is found in the Adriatic and other seas , extremely large between Socotra and Kurachee ; also fossil in the Tertiary deposits .
Textularia agglutinans , D'Orb .
, Var. biformis , nov .
Plate XV .
figs. 23 , 24 ( Arctic ) .
These very small Textulariaw have a sandy shell , often of a rusty colour , with scarce any shell-substance proper .
They have a spiral commencement ( a not uncommon feature in Textularia ) , and the later chambers are subquadrate , arranged alternately .
This may be regarded as an arrested form of T. annectens , Parker and Jones ( Annals Not .
Hist. 3rd ser. vol. xi .
p. 92 , fig. 1 ) ; for , if better developed and carried on with uniserial chambers , it would be equivalent to that variety .
It is common in the Gault and Chalk with T. annectens .
Textularia biformis is common and small at the Hunde Islands in 60 to 70 fathoms .
Textzlaria aggluttinans , Var. ( Bigenerina ) Nodosaria , D'Orb .
Plate XV .
fig. 25 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 80 a , 80 6 ( North Atlantic ) .
Bigenerince are Textularice that commence with alternate biserial chambers and complete themselves with a uniserial set , the aperture becoming terminal , central , round , and sometimes pouting .
Bigenerina Nodosaria , D'Orb .
( Ann. Sc. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 261 , pl. 11 .
figs. 9-12 ; and Modele , No. 57 ) , is usually sandy , and commences with flat interlacing of chambers , as in T. agglutinans , D'Orb .
; whilst B. digitata , D'Orb .
( Modele , No. 58 ) , begins with a conical set of chambers , as in T. gibbosa , D'Orb .
At the Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND ) B. Nodosaria is extremely small , but common , .
at 60 to 70 fathoms .
On the marginal plateau off Ireland it is common at 78 and 90 fathoms , coarsely arenaceous and of fair size .
B. Nodosaria lives in the Mediterranean and other seas , being widely distributed ; it keeps a good size , and prefers muddy bottoms , flourishing down to 200 or 300 fathoms .
Textzularia agglutinans , Var. ( Bigenerina ) digitata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVII .
fig. 81 ( North Atlantic ) .
B. digitata , D'Orb .
( Modele , No. 58 ) , may be said to be a smooth , rusty subvariety of B. Nodosaria , with a conical instead of flattened apex .
On the marginal plateau of the North Atlantic B. digitata is rare and small at 78 fathoms ; the figured specimen is obscure , and may be regarded as feebly developed .
B. digitata occurs in company with B. Nodoscria in the Mediterranean and elsewhere .
Textularia agglutinans , D'Orb .
, Var. ( Verneuilina ) polystropha , Reuss , sp. Plate XV .
fig. 26 ( Arctic ) .
When Textulariwe have a triple row of alternating chambers , as is not unusual with them , they are termed Verneuiline ; having commenced triserially , they may afterwards take on a biserial or uniserial arrangement of chambers , and are known as Gatzdryinwe , Clavulmince , &amp;c. Some that have a triple series of chambers are so much twisted on the axis as to have a Buliminoid aspect ; a slight approach to this condition is shown in Verneuilina polystropha ( Bulimina polystropia , Reuss , Bohm .
Kreid .
vol. ii .
p.109 , pl. 24 .
fig. 53 ; Polymorphina silicea , Schultze ; Bulimina arenacec , Williamson ) .
In Verneuilinw the aperture ceases to be transverse , becoming drawn upwards , as it were , across the septal plane more and more in the later chambers , until it ceases to be even a notch , and becomes terminal and round , as it is in Bigenerince .
V. polystropha may be said to be a small , vesicular , arrested Verneuiline Textularia ; sandy , twisted on its axis , and very red in colour .
It is of wide distribution , living in all latitudes ; and is found fossil in the Tertiary and Cretaceous beds .
It is often of much larger size than our figured specimen , which is from the Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND ) ; where V.polystrop1ha is common and small at 25-40 fathoms , and very common and small at 60-70 fathoms .
Genus BULIMINA .
Bulimina Presli , Reuss , Var. Pyrila , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
figs. 8 , 9 ( Arctic ) .
In describing the Bulimninc that form part of the Rhizopodal Fauna of the Arctic and North Atlantic Oceans , we have not occasion to treat so largely of the special characters of the genus , nor the relationships of the subspecific groups , as is necessary in the case of the Nodosarince , Lagence , Poly ?
norphinc , Uvigerina , Globigerince , Rotalinc , and Polystomellw ; chiefly because these relationships and characters are not difficult to be understood , with the help of the figures before us , and because they have been clearly stated in CARPENTER'S ' Introd .
Foram .
, ' p. 195 , &amp;c. As the best medium-form of the very variable Bulimince we take REUSS'S B. Presli ( Versed .
Bohm .
Kreid .
pl. 13 .
fig. 72 ; Haiding .
Abhandl .
iv .
pi .
10 .
fig. 10 ; and CARPENTER'S ' Introd .
' pl. 12 .
fig. 18 ) .
B. Pyrula , D'Orb .
( For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 11 .
figs. 9 , 10 ) , of which we have some Norwegian specimens before us , is one of the varieties ( for we cannot see evidence of the existence of more than one species of Bzulimina ) that have the greatest tendency to overlap their chambers , and so hide the primary segments by the later ones closing over them .
It is usually prickled at the apex .
We have it common and large in the mixed sands from the coast of Norway ( MAcANDREW and BARRETT ) .
It lives in the Mediterranean , and is large between Socotra and Kurachee .
It is found fossil in the Vienna Tertiaries ( where it is large ) and the London Clay .
A Bulimnina of very similar shape occurs also in the Upper Triassic Clay of Chellaston , Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. xvi .
p. 457 , pl. 20 .
fig. 45 .
Bzlimina Presli , Reuss , Var. marginata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
fig. 10 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
fig. 70 ( North Atlantic ) .
The neat , little , acute-ovate Bulimince that next come under notice are characterized by the exogenous growth of shell-matter , in the form of prickles , on the primordial chamber ( as in B. Pyrula also ) and at the posterior edges of the other chambers to a greater or less degree .
The edges of the chambers may be pinched up , crenulated , serrated , toothed , or spined ; the spines may be few or numerous along the sharpened border or on the surface of the chambers , and they may be present on all of them or limited to the earlier ones ; intermediate conditions in every respect being observable .
No real division can be made amongst these modifications ; but for convenience-sake those edged with prickles are grouped under B. marginata , D'Orb .
Ann. Sc. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 269 , No. 4 , pl. 12 .
figs. 10-12 ; whilst B. aculeata , D'Orb .
( after SOLDANI ) , Ann. Sc. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 269 , No. 7 , takes those with fewer spines .
WILLIAMSON'S B. pupoides , var .
spinulosa , Monogr .
p. 62 , pl. 5 .
fig. 128 , has many fine long spines along the margins .
The crenate and prickly margins are found associated with more contracted forms of Btlimincei than those * Such as B. pulchella , D'Orb .
( For .
Amer .
MIer .
p. 50 , pl. 1 .
figs. 6 , 7 ) , a very small subeylindrical form , with pinched and fringed chambers ; living in the Pacific , from the equator to 34 ?
S. lat. ; and B. Patagonica , D'Orb .
( Ibid. p. 50 , pl. 1 .
figs. 8 , 9 ) , a very rare form ( contracted and fringed at first , irregularly globuliform afterwards ) , found at the Bay of San Bias , Patagonia .
372 -D 2 above-mentioned ; but the exogenous growths belong to thicli-shelled specimens , and probably indicate favourable habitats ; on the thin-shelled and the attenuate forms there is little or no fringing or other ornament .
Fig. 10 .
Plate XV .
has the chambers somewhat extended by their produced spinly edge or prickly fringe , and has a long apical spine ; such forms , with others ( as fig. 11 ) with less of the marginal spines , occurred common and of middle size in the mixed sands from Norway ( MAcANDREw and BAREETT ) .
Plate XVII .
figs. 70 a , 70 b , 70 c ( North Atlantic ) .
Figs. 70 a &amp; 70 b , Plate XVII .
, differ somewhat one from the other and from fig. 10 , Plate XV .
, in the marginal and caudal spines ; but no two specimens , even among manyi , are exactly alike .
They are common and large at 43 fathoms ; common and middling at 78 and 90 fathoms ; and common and small at 223 and 415 fathoms , on the plateau off Ireland in the North Atlantic .
B. marginata lives in all seas , at no great depths .
Bzlimina Presli , Reuss , Var. aculeatca , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
fig. 11 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 68 &amp; 69 ( North Atlantic ) .
In these specimens the chambers have a well-marked globosity , and favourable conditions of growth have given them a rapid rate of increase , as in the foregoing subvariety ; the exogenous prickles , however , are less largely developed , being confined for the most part to the earliest chambers .
Fig. 11 , Plate XV .
is an intermediate form , from Norway ( mixed sands ) , with fewer marginal spines than some of its congeners ; and though more spinous than figs. 68 &amp; 69 , yet , as these are essentially marginatce also , and as there is a difference of degree and not of kind , not only among these , but between these and others presently to be described , it is placed under B. aculeata as its fittest place in the grouping .
Its chambers have sharp posterior edges , drawn out into comparatively few spines , short and strong ; and it has a strong double caudal spine .
B. aculeata , D'Orb .
, is sufficiently well figured by SOLDANI , Testac .
vol. i. part 2 , pl. 127 .
fig. 1 , pl. 130 .
fig. w , and pl. 131 .
fig. xx ( the last has been unnecessarily separated by D'ORBIGNY as B. trilobata ) .
Plate XVII .
figs. 68 &amp; 69 ( North Atlantic ) .
In figs. 68 &amp; 69 , Plate XVI .
the chambers are globose , and the earliest alone are armed with spiny excrescences .
A less developed form appears in our next variety ( fig. 67 ) .
Figs. 68 &amp; 69 are from the eastern marginal plateau at 223 fathoms , where B. acztleata is common and of middle size .
B. aculeata is found everywhere with B. marginata and B. ovata .
3{R. .
K. PARKER AND PROFESSOR T. R. JONES ON SOME Butinmina ovata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVII .
figs , 67 a ; 67 b ( North Atlantic ) .
Among the _Buliminie that fall short of the fair growth of the type ( B. Presli , Reuss ) are B. ovata , D'Orb .
, B. 'p poides , D'Orb .
, and others which have a more or less subcylindrical form owing to the somewhat slow rate of increase in the successive chambers .
Professor WILLIAMSON took B. ppoides as the type when describing the British Bulimine , ' Monograph , ' p. 61 , &amp;c. B. ovata , D'Orb .
, For .
Foss .
Vien .
p. 185 , pl. 11 .
figs. 13 &amp; 14 , is just such a varietal form as occurs in the North Atlantic ; on the Irish plateau , rare and small at 78 fathoms ; rare and very small in the abyssal area at 1776 and 1950 fathoms ; rare and middlesized at 740 fathoms , north of the Bank ; very rare and very small at 150 fathoms in Trinity Bay .
It is a British form ( B. p'upoides , var .
fjsiformis , Williamson , Monogr .
p. 63 , pi .
5 .
figs. 129 , 130 ) , together with the almost identical B. pupoides , D'Orb .
; both of which are found fossil ( and large ) in the Vienna Tertiaries .
It is large also in fossil beds at Jamaica ( BARRETT ) .
In Captain PULLEN'S Soundings from between Socotra and Kurachee it is very large ( sometimes thin-shelled ) .
B. ovata accompanies the other Bulimintc .
They prefer muddy bottoms ; flourishing in depths as great as 100 or 150 fathoms ; and in the fossil state they are found in clays , corresponding to mud-beds .
Fig. 67 a shows a slight amount of exogenous growth on the early chambers , sufficient to indicate the close relationship of habit between this and its better grown allies ( figs. 68 &amp; 69 ) .
Builimina Presli , Reuss , Var. BucMaMa , D'Orb .
Plate XVII .
fig. 71 ( North Atlantic ) .
In this elegant little form we find the a1rgest relative proportion of shell-matter among Bulnti'nm , which , on the other hand , are often very thin-shelled , but often thicker in deep seas .
The chambers are here laid closely one on another , fitting well , nearly hiding their septa , and bearing vertical superficial ridges , sparse and strong , in which the marginal spines , seen in other varieties , are lost ; just as spinose Lagene , Nodosarie , &amp;c. pass into ribbed varieties by modifications of the ornament .
B. Buichiana is the most Uvigerine , both in shell-structure and shape , of all the Bulim'nin .
B. Buchiana , D'Orb .
, For .
Foss .
Vien .
pl. 11 .
figs. 15-18 , is widely distributed ; though never common .
It is found in the Mediterranean ; but , in comparison with B. ovata and B. marginata , it is rare : it is fossil near Vienna .
On the marginal plateau off Ireland it is rare and small at 78 fathoms .
Bztlimina Presli , IReuss , Var. elegantissima , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
figs. 12-17 ( Arctic ) .
Some BBlimince have their segments or chambers lengthened sideways and set on very obliquely to the axis of the spine , the greater part of the shell being made up of the last whorl of from seven to ten chambers .
More especially in short and gibbose individuals some of these many chambers are smaller than others in the whorl , and appear 374 to interdigitate or to be intercalated .
Bulimina elegantissima , D'Orb .
, For .
Amer .
Merid. p. 51 , pl. 7 .
figs. 13 , 14 , and Robertina arctica , D'Orb .
, For .
Foss .
Vein .
p. 203 , pl. 21 .
figs. 37 , 38 , both belong to this group of Buliminei ( see CARPENTER'S Introd .
Foram .
p. 195 , &amp;c. ) , and the differences of modification are so slight that we include the latter in the former .
Our Arctic specimens of B. elegantissima are relatively large in size and thin-walled .
In the Indian seas B. elegantissima occurs smaller , and with thicker walls ; but from the Australian seas we have it more elongate and stronger than the Arctic form .
The elongate form is found also on the British coasts ( see WILLIAMSON'S ' Monograph , ' p. 64 , pl. 5 .
figs. 134 , 135 ) .
B. elegantissima occurred to D'ORBIGNY in the sea-sands from the Pacific coast of South America ; and he had Robertina arcticca from the North Cape .
B. elegantissima is rare and of middling size at 25-30 fathoms , and common and large at from 30-70 fathoms , at the Hunde Islands ( Dr. P. C. SUTHERLAND'S dredgings ) .
It is fossil at Grignon ; also in the Eocene sandy clays of Hants and Isle of Wight ( H. .
B. BRADY ) , and in the Pliocene clay under the fens near Peterborough .
In the recent state it is world-wide , the British coasts , the Mediterranean , Red Sea , Tropical Atlantic , Australia , and Fiji .
Bulimina Presli , Reuss , Var. ( Virgulina ) Schreibersii , Czjzek .
Plate XV .
fig. 18 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 72 , 73 ( North Atlantic ) .
Virgtlintc are such Bztlimince as are ivery much outdrawn , with thin shells , and having long loop-like apertures , with inverted lips , as in Bulimina proper .
The chambers are arranged less compactly than in the other Bulimin , ce in consequence of the elongation of the shell , and are scarcely more than biserial , or even only irregularly so .
V. Schreibersii , Czjzek , Haid .
Abhandl .
vol. ii .
pl. 12 .
figs. 18-21 , is of irregular growth , intermediate between the long and loose-growing varieties of B. ovata , D'Orb .
, and the Textulariform Virgulina squamOosa , D'Orb .
, next described .
It is an isomorph of PolymorJphina , as V. sqtamosc is isomorphic with Textztlaria .
We have it rare and large from the Hunde Islands , where Dr. SUTIIERLAND dredged it in 30-40 fathoms ; and in the North Atlantic it is rare and middle-sized at 1950 fathoms ; rare and large at 2330 fathoms ( Boreal portion of the Abyss ) ; and rare and small at 954 and 725 fathoms north of Newfoundland Bank .
V. Schreibersii and its subvarieties are not rare in existing seas , both of warm and cold climates ; and it occurs fossil in the Tertiary beds of Sienna , Vienna , and Turiin .
Some allied forms occur in the Clhalk and in the Clays of the Oolite , which are isomorphs of the Dentaline or Virguline Polymorphince of the Sutton Crag .
Bulimina Presli , Reuss , Var. ( Virgulina ) squamosa , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
fig. 19 a , 19 b , 20 ( Arctic ) .
Although the arrangement of the chambers has become almost regularly biserial , and alternate , as in Textularia , yet this variety retains the true Bulimine aperture ; and 3E2 375 gradual modifications in form lead us from Virgulina squamosa , D'Orb .
( Modele , No. 64 ) , before us , through V. Schreibersii ( fig. 18 ) , to the more regular Bulimnine .
This variety has the same world-wide distribution as V. Schreibersii ; but is never common : at the Hunde Islands it is rare and small at 30-40 and 60-70 fathoms ; and it was rare and large in the mixed sands from Norway .
As an enfeeblement of Bzutiinna , it points in one direction to V. Schreibersii , and in another to the Bolivince .
Fig. 20 is a specimen that can scarcely be separated from Bolivina p , unctata .
Btilimina Presli , Reuss , Var. ( Bolivina ) costata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVII .
fig. 75 ( North Atlantic ) .
c " A more decided modification of the Bulimine type is presented by those forms which have been ranked by D'ORBIGNY in his genus Bolivina ; the arrangement of the segments being here regularly biserial and alternating , as in Textularia ; but the aperture never loses the elongation and the inversion of its lips , characteristic of the Bulimine type , and its direction is usually somewhat oblique .
In the B. costata of D'ORBIGNY ( For .
Amer .
Merid. p. 62 , pl. 8 .
figs. 8 , 9 ) there is a set of right parallel costse , running continuously from one segment to another along the entire length of the shell , giving to it a very peculiar aspect " ( CARPENTER , 'Introd .
' p. 196 ) .
The inversion of the lip of the aperture , characteristic of Bulimina , and homologous with the intussusception of the neck-tube in Lagena , is well seen in somni young transparent Bolivince .
B. costata is rare and large at 223 fathoms on the marginal plateau off the coast of Ireland .
D'ORBIGNY found it common at 20 metres at Cobija , South America ; an allied and small variety , B. plicata ( op .
cit. pl. 8 .
figs. 4-7 ) , he found in deeper water at Valparaiso .
B. costata lives on muds and is found fossil in clays , like other Btlimnine ; flourishing down to about 100 fathoms ; it is never common , but is found on the west coast of Scotland , and from the south coast of England ( Eastbourne ) to the tropics .
Btilimina Presli , Reuss , Var. ( Bolivina ) punctate , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVII .
fig. 74 ( North Atlantic ) .
The figured specimen is a short and vesicular subvariety of B. pctgzetcta , D'Orbigny .
( For .
Amer .
Merid. p. 63 , pl. 8 .
figs. 10-12 ) , which is the centre of a group of many forms .
The one before us is perfectly Textulariform , and can be diagnosed as a Btulimina only by the shape and subobliquity of its aperture .
We find it rare and small at 43 and 415 fathoms , and rather common and small at 223 fathoms , on the marginal plateau off Ireland .
D'ORBIGNY got it rather common at from 40 to 50 metres at Valparaiso .
B. punctata is world-wide , reaching as low as 100 fathoms .
In the Mediterranean area it is both recent and fossil .
It is present in the Oxford and Kimmeridge Clays .
376 FROMl THE NORTtI ATLANTIC AND ARCTIC OCEANS .
Genus CASSIDULINA .
Cassicdzdina wevigata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
figs. 1-4 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 64 a , 64 6 , 64 c ( North Atlantic ) .
Cassidulina , related to Buzirnimnc and Textuztlcria , is described in CAEPENTER'S Introd .
Foram .
p. 197 .
It is of world-wide distribution , on muddy bottoms in both shallow and deep waters .
In the Indian Ocean ( between Socotra and Kurachee ) Cassidzlina takes on the uncoiled condition ( Cassidulina PzTa , D'Orb .
, Ehrenbergina serrata , Reuss ) ; and in the tropical deep seas it passes into thick-walled , flush-shelled , and uncoiled forms , isomorphic of Bolivine .
It occurs in Tertiary deposits .
Deep-sea forms are usually thick-walled .
C. loevigata , D'Orb .
( Modeles , No. 41 , Ann. Sc. Not .
vii .
p. 282 , pl. 15 .
figs. 4 , 5 bis ) is common and small in the mixed sands from Norway ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) ; common and middle-sized at the Hunde Islands , from 30 to 70 fathoms* ; common and middle-sized in 150 fathoms , 76§ 30 ' lat. , 77§ 52 ' long .
, Baffin 's Bay , and rare and middling at 75§ 10 ' lat. , 60§ 12 ' long .
In the North Atlantic it is rare and small at 1750 fathoms in the central area ; north of the Bank it is rare and of middle size at 102 , 112 , and 145 fathoms , and rather common at 740 fathoms ; in Trinity Bay it is rare and small at 150 fathoms , middle-sized and not very common at 124 , 133 , and 192 fathoms .
On the Newfoundland Bank Cassidulnew are few and probably dead , just as Nonionina Scapha occurs .
Cassidulina is also a Middle Tertiary form .
Cassiduiina lcwgata , D'Orb .
, Var. crassa , D'Orb .
Plate XV .
figs. 5 , 6 , 7 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
fig. 64 d ( North Atlantic ) .
This thicker form accompanies the typical C. Icvigata in its wide-spread occurrences .
D'OBBIGNY first described and figured C. crassa from off Cape Horn ( 160 metres ) , and , in company with C. Pupa , from the Falkland Isles ( " at a considerable depth " ) .
Professor WILLIAMSON'S 0 .
obtztsac ( Monogr .
p. 69 , pl. 6 .
figs. 143 , 144 ) , from the British coasts , and from the Huunde Islands , is the same as C. crassa , excepting a slight difference in the variable aperture .
C. crassa , D'Orb .
( For .
Amer .
Mer .
p. 56 , pl. 7 .
figs. 18-20 ) is small at 28-30 and 50-70 fathoms , and of middle size at 30-40 fathoms at the Hunde Islands , and common throughout ; it is common and small at 150 fathoms in Baffin 's Bay , 76§ 30 ' lat. , 77§ 52 ' long .
On the eastern plateau of the North Atlantic it is very rare and very small at 223 fathoms .
C. crassa has its finest development ( as far as we know ) at 1100 fathoms in the Tropical Atlantic ; like C. lcevigata it is often among the deep-sea forms ; it is found also in the Mediterranean and in Bombay lIarbour .
f Professor WILLIAMSON ( Monogr .
p. 68 ) notices the umbonate and transparent condition of the Cassidzince from the Hunde and Beechey Islands .
377 Genus PLANORBULINA .
Planorbulina farcta , Fichtel and Moll , sp. ( Varieties ) .
Plate XIV .
figs.3-11 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
figs. 18-25 ( North Atlantic ) .
This is a very common variety of a species belonging to the Rotaline group of Foraminifera .
In endeavouring to elucidate the relationships of the Botalinwm , we have been impressed with the distinctiveness of nine specific groups , six of which have more or less of the well-known Rotalian shape , and are extremely rich in varietal forms ( see Dr. CARPENTER'S 'Inltrod .
Study Foram .
' Ray Soc. 1862 , pp. 198 , &amp;c. ) .
A great proportion of these varieties have been described by authors under the generic term " Rotalia " ; others have been grouped under the leading names of Rosalina , Planorbulina , Gyroidina , Anomalina , Truncatulizna , and several others , supposed to be of subgeneric , or even of generic , value .
An artificial classification and extreme confusion have been the consequence .
After a long examination of the subject in its bibliographic aspect , and having carefully studied large numbers of the actual organisms , recent and fossil , we find that they range themselves around six specific centres , which may also be regarded as types of so many genera ; and with these are allied three other specific forms , not so Rotalian in aspect ( Tinoporus , Patellinza , and Polytrema ) .
The protean variability of all the six Rotalian types being great , and isomorphismn , or similarity of form among the varieties and subvarieties of these several specific groups , being of very frequent occurrence , we still use binomial terms , in a subgeneric sense , for members of this great group ; and often , in ordinary descriptions , we retain , for the sake of convenience , binomial appellations ( without direct reference to their exact zoological value ) for striking specimens even of varieties and subvarieties .
Thus Truncatulina lobatula is a distinct binomial term for the common variety of Planorbulina farcta first to be noticed ( page 381 ) .
The old name Rotalia is retained for one of these six genera ; and we arrange the whole as a subfamily with the appellation of ROTALIN3 * .
Discorbina Turbo , D'Orb .
, sp. Planorbulina fareta , Fichtel and loll , sp. Pulvinulina repanda , Fichtel and 31oll , sp. Rotalla Beccarii , Linn. , sp. Cymbalopora Poyei , D'Orb .
, sp. Calcarina Spengleri , Gmelin , sp. Tinoporus l1evis , Parker and Jones , sp. Patellina concava , Lam .
, sp. Polytreia miniaceum , Esper , sp. Each of the six Potaliform genera is represented by one typical species , which carries with it a large number ( from 50 to 200 or 300 ) of divergent forms , most of them having See CARPE , TELr^s ' Introd .
Foram .
' Ray Soc. 1862 , pp. 198 , &amp;c. 378 special names , which we must in many instances retain for convenience , though we refer them to one or the other of the six species above mentioned .
In nature these Foraminifera are never absolutely strict in their adherence to any:one of the chief varietal forms ; but the latter are serviceable as subspecific centres , around which may be arranged a large number of modifications , more and more gentle and mutually confluent ; so that when we speak of TrSunCatuiCna lobatida or of DDiscorbina vesicclaris ( and the same may be said of the varietal groups of any true Foraminiferal species ) , we do not mean to say that the specimen which we have before us necessarily answers exactly to any figure or description in the literature of the subject , but that it is nearer to some one of the accepted illustrations than to any other .
To attempt greater exactness would be useless ; indeed the classification of these little creatures is very similar to what that of vegetables would be if we had only the separate leaves for our guides .
From 100 fathoms to shallow water ( seaweed-belt , 10 fathoms and less ) is the best home for the Rotaliform Rotalince .
Certain varieties of Ptlvinulina repanda attain a good size at 2400 fathoms .
The varieties of Planorbuliznafarcta , also , are not uncommon at very great depths .
Discorbina Turbo , Rotalia Beccarii , Calcarinac Spengleri , and Cymbalopora Poyei avoid great depths ( with few exceptions ) , the best developed specimens keeping themselves above the Coralline-zone or 25 fathoms .
Planordlitna has a coarsely porous shell ( more so than any of its congeners ) , often of a relatively large size , consisting of from 15 to 200 or more chambers , with single septa , and very slight rudiments of the canal-system : it is usually complanate ( PI .
Mediterranensis ) and parasitic on sea-weeds and shells ; but many of its varieties are plano-convex ( Truncatulina ) , and some become almost subnautiloid ( Anomalina ) .
The shell is mostly smooth ; rarely limbate ( Plcamuina ) ; and frequently granulate ( PI .
vzugaris and PI .
larvata ) : the aperture varies from an open to a contracted slit , and is often produced and lipped .
Scheme of the czief members of the Rotaline genus PLANORBULINA .
Filly developed forms Fully developed forms .
I vulgaris , ID'Orb .
For .
Foss .
Canar .
p1 .
2 .
fig. 30 ; Carpenter , Introd .
For .
p1 .
131 becomingconcentric , with figs. 13-15 .
alternating chambers Mediterranensis , D'Orb .
Modeles , No. 79 .
built over the apertures of retinaculake , Parker and Jones ( sp. nov .
) ; Carp .
Int. For .
p. 209 .
Plate XIX .
fig. 2 .
the penultimate ring .
X the penultirmate ring .
K larvata , P. and J. ( sp. n. ) , Ann. Not .
Hist. 3 ser. vol. v. p. 68 .
Plate XIX .
fig. 3 .
iARCTA , Fichtel and Moll , sp. ( the type of Planorbulina ) , Test .
Micr .
pl. 9 .
figs. g-i .
Intermediate forms .
lobatula ( Truncatulina ) , Walker and Jacob , sp. , D'Orbigny 's Modeles , No. 37 .
refulgens , Montfort , sp. , D'Orbigny 's Modeles , No. 77 .
'r aidingerii , D'Orb , sp. , For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 8 .
figs. 7-9 .
Ungeriana , D'Orb .
, sp. , For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 8 .
figs. 16-18 .
ammonoides , Reuss , sp. , Bohm .
Kreid .
pl. 8 .
fig. 53 .
Quasi-rotalian and subntiloid form .
reticulata , Czjzek , sp. , Haiding .
Abhandl .
ii .
pl. 13 .
figs. 7-9 .
subnaultiloid forms .
coronata ( Anomalina ) , Parker and Jones , Ann. Not .
Hist. 2 ser. vol. xix .
p. 294 , pl. 10 .
figs. 15 , 16 .
&lt; Ariminensis ( Planulina ) , D'Orb .
, sp. , Modeles , No. 49 .
379 Figs. 3 to 11 include two striking varieties of Planorbulina farctc , --a type perhaps the richest of all the Rotalines in modification ; and which not only developes the largest chambers , but produces the largest shells ( some with a diameter of a quarter of an inch , P. vulgaris , D'Orb .
) .
The disk and the chambers are so large in some speciinens from tropical seas , that individuals have been mistaken for Polyzoa , and this mistake has been strengthened by the pouting of the marginal apertures .
Both of the varieties here under consideration , though attaining considerable size , are arrested and few-chambered varieties .
They have attained the simple Rotaline form without as yet taking on the more characteristic features of the more outspread Planorbztlinw , although their somewhat free mode of growth , the coarseness of their shell-walls , and their relatively large aperture afford the connecting links to the observer ; more especially when we find the same shells having the aperture firstly lipped , then protrusive , and gradually ( among numbers of individuals ) acquiring a neck and distinct rim .
The typical development of this PlanorbtziTla , with a subtubular chief aperture and supernumerary necked and lipped apertures on the periphery of the shell , is rarely found in the northern seas ; by far the most common variety is the well-known form , figs. 3-6 , long ago described as Truncatulina lobattula .
This , as a rule , grows on a shell or other substance having a smooth surface , and during the growth of the shell the little parasitical Foraminifer occasionally becomes more or less imbedded in its substance .
This plano-convex variety represents in the temperate climes the imanychambered plano-convex Planorbulinza Jlediterranensis .
The latter swarms on seait ( especially when growing on the larger bivalves , such as Pinna labellum ) that P1 .
lobatula is seen to take on a wild-growing condition , with subsidiary marginal nlecks , becoming Pl .
farcta and PI .
variabilis , without developing nearly so manly chambers as are seen in its associate , although exceeding the latter in size .
In tropical and subtropical seas Pl .
farcta grows on to be the great PI .
vulygaris , D'Orb .
, the arrested Truncatuline forms being comparatively rare .
In the seas of hot climates a large amount of exogenous granular matter is formed on the surface of the shell ( as in PI .
larvata * , Parker and Jones ) ; far different to the smooth , polished shells in the Mediterranean and northern seas .
There is one parasitical form ( PI .
retinaculatat , Parker and Jones ) which , besides being scabrous with granulation , developes so large a number of peripheral , subsidiary , tubular apertures , connecting together , and still keeping apart , the sarcode-chambers , and forming a kind of irregular network over the surface of the shells on which it grows , like certain Polyzoa , that the features of this Planorbutlina are extremely different from that of its type ; and it can scarcely be connected with the simple varieties of the species without a knowledge of the real relationships of the great and widely extended Rotaline group .
The same structure really exists in the great Pl .
vulgaris , D'Orb .
For .
Canar .
pl. 2 .
fig. 30 , and Carpenter , Introd .
For .
pl. 13 .
figs. 13-15 ; but here the connexion of the chambers X Plate XIX .
fig. 3 .
Ann. Not .
Hist. 3 ser. vol. v. p. 68 .
t Plate XIX .
fig. 2 .
CARPENTER'S Introd .
Foram .
p. 209 .
380 FORAMiINIFERA FROM TIE NORTH ATLANTIC AND ARCTIC OCEANS .
381 is masked in some degree by the obesity of the chambers themselves ; the retinaculate variety developing smaller and more depressed lobes of sarcode .
On Ch6ama gigas there is often a wild-growing parasitic Tinoporus isomorphous with P1 .
retinaculata , but still larger .
The oldest known Planorlblinwa are found in the Lias .
Planorbulina farctc , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. ( Trulcatulina ) lobatutla , Walker and Jacob , sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 3-6 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
figs. 18-20 ( North Atlantic ) .
Planorbztlina lobatula has been described above to some extent ; we may add that it is an exceedingly unstable form , even whilst keeping its simple character ; for frequently it has only half the thickness seen in fig. 5 b , which is an average specimlen for such as live at from 30 to 160 fathoms in the Northern Seas ; but at about 60 to 70 fathoms it frequently assumes a modified condition , taking a high conical shape ( PI .
refuilgens , Montfort , sp. ) , its smoothness and polish being much greater than in these flatter forms ; and the apex of the shell is on the umbilical aspect ( as in PI .
lobatuzla ) ; the whole coil of chambers being seen on the base of the shell .
Pl .
lobatula also passes insensibly into an extremely thin scale-like variety , nearly symmetrical , with limbate septal lines and square edges , which has been described as Plangulina Arimninensis , D'Orb .
( Modeles , No. 49 ) .
Other forms gradually lose the plano-convex , or Truncatuline , character ; the edges become rounded , the primary and succeeding chambers become elevated above the margin of the shell , which thus grows biconvex or lenticular ; for instance , Planorbulina Haidingerii , D'Orb .
, sp. ( For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 8 .
figs. 7-9 ) , and PI .
Ungeriana , D'Orb .
, sp. ( Ibid. figs. 16-18 ) , common forms at from 60 to 300 fathoms .
We here omit any notice of the intermediate varieties , which have been extensively named as species .
Like Pulvinulina repanda , as seen in its variety P. Mliczleliniana ( Plate XIV .
fig. 16 ) , the Truncatuline forms of PI .
farcta have the spiral arrangement of the chambers marked on the flat face of the shell ; on the other hand , the plano-convex varieties of D)iscorbina Turbo have the umbilical surface flat ; the apex of the cone being formed of the primordial chamber : an approach to this condition is seen in Plate XIV .
figs. 18 , 19 , Discorbina obttusa , D'Orb .
, sp. ( For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 11 .
figs. 4-6 ) , a variety of D. Ttrbo , D'Orb .
, sp. ( Modeles , No. 73 ) .
Plate XIV .
figs. 3-6 represent specimens of Pl .
lobatula from the Iunde Islands , in five dredgings by Dr. P. C. SUTHERLAND ( 25 to 70 fathoms ) , where they are very common and generally of good size ; from Baffin 's Bay , at three places ; lat. 75§ 10 ' N. , long .
60§ 12 ' W. , and lat. 76§ 30 ' N. , long .
77§ 52 ' W. , of middling size and common , and at lat. 750 N. , long .
59§ 40 ' W. ( 220 fathoms ) , where they are small and rather common ; and from seven out of the eight dredgings by MACANDREW and BARRETT on the Norwegian coast we have them large and common .
We have already indicated that this variety is world-wide ; fossil , it occurs in the Chalk-marl , Chalk , and many later deposits .
Fig. 6 shows a condition of the parasitic forms of Planorb6lina farcta very common , i2MR ... K. PARKER AND PROFESSOR T. R. JONES ON SOME both in this arrested Truncatuline variety and in the outspread Planorbthlinie .
Two young individuals , establishing themselves close to each other , grow on until their shells become blended and confused ; this is still better seen in the many-chambered Planorbulincw , two or more of which , growing into each other , form lichen-like patches on shells .
Plate XVI .
figs. 18-20 ( North Atlantic ) .
Trzmncatulina lobatzla belongs essentially to shallow waters , and it becomes smaller when in deeper water than usual ( as is the case with the specimens before us ) , and is then more compact and neat , takes on a limbation ( exogenous edging to the chamberwalls , fig. 19 ) , and soon approaches the conical and shapely Tr. reftdgens , Montfort , sp. On the eastern marginal plateau of the North Atlantic Trancatulina lobatula is common and of middle size at from 43 to 78 fathoms , rare and small at 338 fathoms .
It is absent from the abyssal depths .
To the north of Newfoundland Bank ( " Arctic " tract ) it is rare and small at 145 fathoms , and rare and middle-sized at 740 fathoms .
Planorbulina farcta , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. Haidingerii , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XVI .
figs. 22 a , 22 b ( North Atlantic ) .
This is a variety of Planorbtzina fcarcta near to PI .
lobatula , but biconvex and having more chambers and a more solid and symmetrical make .
It is usually larger and more ventricose than these Atlantic specimens .
This and PI .
Ungeriana are two closely allied , compact , and flush-chambered varieties of PI .
farcta , more Rotaliform than PI .
lobatula , and inhabiting moderately deep seas .
In the North Atlantic PI .
Haidingerii is rare and of middle size at 1776 fathoms in the Abyssal area .
It is more abundant in the " Virginian Province " on the coast of New Jersey ( see page 333 and Appendix II .
) .
The two are fossil together in Tertiary beds .
PI .
HIcidingerii is world-wide , like the type , and bears the same relation to it that Rotalia Soldanzii does to R. Beccarii , -a rather large and moderately deep-sea variety .
Pianorbulinca frcta , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. Ungeriana , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XVI .
figs. 23-25 ( North Atlantic ) .
This variety has relatively narrower chambers and more limbation than its congener PI .
farcta , var .
Ilaidinqerii , D'Orb .
, sp. , above-mentioned .
It is widely distributed in the Atlantic .
On the marginal plateau off the Irish coast it is rare and small in the shallow , common and largest in the deeper parts .
In the Abyssal tract ( " Celtic " ) it is common but small ; and throughout the " Boreal " portion of that tract ( 1400-2300 fathoms ) it is rare and small .
It is figured in Dr. WALLICH'S 'North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' pl. 6 .
figs. 20 , 21 .
PF ' Ungeriana is world-wide , like the last ; but , as a weaker and smaller shell , it takes the place of the type in deepest waters , where also Rotalia orbicularis represents R. Beccarii .
PI .
Calter , nov .
, Plate XIX .
fig. 1 , is a rare , keeled subvariety , living at great depths .
382 Planorbztlina farcta , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. Mediterranensis , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVI .
fig. 21 ( North Atlantic ) .
This explanate Planorbulina is of small size in the North Atlantic , as usual in North Temperate seas ; it is rare off the Irish coast at 43 fathoms .
It is spiral at first , then excentric , and ultimately concentric ; always orderly in its growth , with bipolar chambers ; not having exogenous matter , nor a free growth of marginal apertures .
It flourishes in the warmer temperate seas ; is starved in the British area ; abounds in the Mediterranean and Australian seas ; but in the latter is less plentiful than PI .
vulgaris , with which it is associated .
It forms a tiny scale on flat-fronded sea-weeds , and has a livid pinkish colour , both from its contained sarcode and from the shell-substance being actually coloured .
Planorbzulina fcrcta , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. ( Anomalina ) coronata , Parker and Jones .
Plate XIV .
figs. 7-11 ( Arctic ) .
This has been termed Anomzalina coronate , Ann. Not .
Hist. 2 ser. vol. xix .
p. 294 ; but it belongs to Planorbulina , and the term Anomalina is not really wanted , however convenient it may be as a term for the subsymmetrical or somewhat biconvex arrested Planorbuline , as Truncatulina indicates the plano-convex few-chambered forms .
To make the so-called genus Anomalina , D'ORBIGNY took several of the minor forms of Planorbulina farcta , namely those which are somewhat symmetrical and subnautiloid , with one variety of Discorbina Turbo ( A. elegans , Modele , 42 ) .
On taking into consideration the evident passage of form from the plano-convex ( Truncatuline ) to the biconcave ( Anomaline ) condition of the shell , shown by figs. 8 , 10 , 9 , 7 , &amp; 11 , the observer may at once see the force of the above remarks .
This variety , P1 .
coronata , has the same kind of shell-substance , thick , subtransparent , and coarsely perforated , as PI .
lobattla ; it has a greater tendency to develope clear , non-perforate , exogenous shell-matter on both faces of the shell , sometimes hiding the septal lines ; the pseudopodia chiefly passing from the periphery of the chambers and through the lacunae in the superadded coating , both on the umbilical ( fig. 10 ) and the flatter spiral surface ( fig. 8 ) .
The presence of these lacunae is highly interesting , as being the first rough outline of the great vascular or interseptal canal-system which attains such perfection in the highly developed Rotalince , Polystomellm , and Nummulince .
Pl .
coronata is not so common as Pl .
lobatula ; it abounds , however , in MAcANDREW and BARRETT'S Norway dredgings ( at five places ) ; and it is abundant at certain places in the Mediterranean , especially at about 100 fathoms .
At such depths it is that Pl .
coronata takes the place of Pl .
lobatula , by living independently and developing its surfaces more or less freely , whilst but few of the parasitical variety are left on the rare shells of deep water .
Pl .
coronata has been found abundantly in the North British seas by Mr. H. B. BRADY .
PI .
vulgaris also has a subnautiloid form in its young state ; and throughout its growth the chambers are more or less convex both on the attached and the free face .
Planorbulint vuIlgaris grows on rough shells ( such as Tridacnct and Hippoputs ) ; and its under surface touches but at points , not lying flat ( as in Pl .
11editerranensis on sea-weedfronds , and PI .
lobatula on smooth shells and algce ) .
In the fossil state we have PI .
coronata from the Grignon sands ( Eocene ) , of large size , rivalling in size the Discorbina trochidiformis of that deposit .
Under the names of Rotalia , Rosalina , Anomcdina , and TrzecatuZlina , have been described a great number of subnautiloid forms which are evidently some of them enfeeblements of PI .
coroncta ( the nearest being Trtncatulinta vermiculata , D'Orb .
Foram .
Amer .
Merid. pl. 6 .
figs. 1-3 ) , whilst others are either young or arrested modifications of PI .
vdlgaris .
In deep water Planorbzlina scarcely ever takes its true Planorbuline character ; this many-chambered condition seeming to require sea-weeds or shell-surfaces for support .
Mixed with these , and at still greater depths , we get numbers of small subsymmetrical nautiloid forms of this species , such as have passed under the names of Rotalia Clemen1tiana , D'Orb .
, and Botalia ammonozides , Reuss ; as well as many other forms ranging between the latter and Pladulinct Ariminensis .
Planorbulina ammonoides , of the Lias , Gault , and Chalk takes on the symmetrical ( subnautiloid ) character so distinctly as to be mistaken for small Nonionince2i .
These small , more or less symmetrical Planorblzince , so common in some deposits of the Secondary period , are abundant enough in the existing seas at from 100 to 1000 fathoms , or even more .
We may suppose that the sea-weeds and bivalves of the shallow water of the Secondary period were abundantly encrusted with Planorbulince as littoral representatives of the deep-sea forms now fossil in the clays of that period .
Genus DISCORBINA .
Discorbina Turbo , D'Orbigny ( Varieties ) .
Plate XIV .
figs. 18-23 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
figs. 26-28 ( North Atlantic ) .
Discorbina presents a simple Rotaline form of shell , having from 7 to 30 more or less vesicular chambers , with double septa when the chambers are discrete , and with rudiments of the canal-system .
The shell is coarsely porous ( coarser than that of Cymbalopora , and less so than Planorbulina ) ; somewhat conical in shape ; the upper side the thickest ; the margin rather sharp ; but some varieties are complanate with square edges .
The aperture is a large arched slit , usually occluded by an umbilical process or flap , which is sometimes developed into a subsidiary umbilical chamber ; and the flaps or chamberlets of the successive chambers give a star-like or Asterigerine aspect in the umbilicus .
Exogenous shell-growth sometimes thickens the septal lines of the spire ; but it frequently ornaments , and even masks , the umbilical lobes .
The many varieties of this porous and flap-bearing Rotaline species are so intimately connected one with the other , that the following classification is little more than suggestive and provisional .
384 Sclemene of the arrangennezt of the chief subspecific forms of DISCORBINA .
r trochiliformis , Lam .
, sp. , Ann. fltus .
viii .
pl. 62 .
fig. 8 .
Fossil from Grignon .
Coarsely perforate , valvular or flapped , valvules marked by a mass of granules .
It is an isomorph of Polystomella craticulata .
TURBO , D'Orb .
, sp. , Modeles , No. 73 .
Fossil from Grignon .
Coarsely perforate .
Valvules distinct .
This is the typical species .
1 .
Conical. .
rosacea , D'Orb .
, sp. , Modeles , No. 39 .
Fossil from Bordeaux ( =Asteriyerina Planorbis , D'Orb .
) .
It is delicately perforate ; valvules distinct .
Pileolus , D'Orb .
, sp. , For .
Amer .
Mer .
pl. 1 .
figs. 15-17 .
From India , Australia , &amp;c. , and fossil from Grignon .
Small ; conical or hemispherical : chambers vertical : granulate ornament in radiating lines .
Connecting D. rosacea with D. Parisiensis .
It has its extreme flatness in ( Ros .
) semistriata , D'Orb .
, For .
Cuba , pl. 3 .
figs. 15-17 .
vesicularis , Lamk .
Ann. Mus. viii .
pl. 62 .
fig. 7 ( =(Rot .
) Gervillii , D'Orb .
Modeles , No. 72 ) .
From Australia , and fossil at Grignon .
Carpenter , Introd .
For .
pl. 13 .
figs. 2 , 3 .
rimnosa , Parker and Jones ( Carpentor , Introd .
For .
p. 205 ) .
Fossil at Grignon : recent from India to Australia , including Fiji .
Plate XIX .
fig. 6 .
2 .
Vesicular : dimidiata , Parker and Jones ( Carpenter , Introd .
For .
p. 201 .
fig. 32 , B. ) .
Plano-convex .
valves feeble in Plate XIX .
fig. 9 .
the feeble vesielegans , D'Orb .
Modeles , No. 42 .
Fossilfrom Bordeaux ( =(Rot .
) complanata , For .
Foss .
Vein .
cular forms , especially in pl. 10 .
figs. 10-15 ) .
Passing insensibly into I ) .
vesicolaris .
globularis and globdaris , D'Orb .
Modles , No. 69 =(RIot .
) semiporata , Egger , sp. Miocene , Germany .
its poor relaobtusa , D'Orb .
For .
Foss .
Yien .
pl. 11 .
figs. 4-6 .
tion .
globigerinoides , Parker and Jones .
Extreme of D. vesicularis , running into D ) .
eegans .
It is an isomorph of Cymnbalopora bulloides , D'Orb .
( Rosalina , Cuba , pl. 3 .
figs. 2-5 ) .
Plate XIX .
fig. 7 .
Binkhorsti , Reuss , Sitz .
Akad .
Wien .
xliv .
p. 2 .
fig. 3 .
This is an isomorph of Pulvinmdina e caracolla , Roem .
, sp. Limbate .
Par isiensis , D'Orb .
, sp. , Modeles , No. 38 .
Fossil at Grignon .
Ornamented with granular 3 .
Outspread es ( more or less Cora , D'Orb .
, sp. , For .
Amder .
Mar. pl. 6 .
figs. 19-21 .
Complanate , and round-edged ; procomplanate ) : bably representing a somewhat starved condition .
valves feeble in Berthelotiana , D'Orb .
, sp. , For .
Canaries , pl. 1 .
figs. 28-30 .
spread formsu biconcava , Parker and Jones ( Carpenter , Introd .
Foram .
p. 201 .
fig. 32 , G ) .
Complanate , with raised square edges .
Plate XIX .
fig. 10 .
The oldest known are Discorbina Tuirbo and PB .
Biniciorsti , both in the Maestricht Chalk .
Discorbina Turbo , Var. rosaceca , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XVI .
figs. 28 a , 28 b ( North Atlantic ) .
Discorbina rosacea , D'Orb .
, sp. ( Modeles , No. 39 ) , has an exquisitely sculptured , and more delicately porous shell than usual ( the margin only may be porous ) ; its astral flaps form sometimes a secondary system of chambers .
These characters are developed largely in D. Turbo , D'Orb .
, sp. , the type of the whole group , from which this flat variety has no essential distinction..D .
rosacea is rather common and of the middle size on the Irish plateau at 43 fathoms .
Asterigerin Planorbis ( For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 11 .
figs. 1-3 ) supplies a very good representation of this elegant form : see also WILLIAMSON'S Monogr .
pl. 4 .
figs. 109-111 ( Rotalna Maonilla ) , and his pl. 4 .
fig. 112 , and pl. 5 .
fig. 113 ( R. ochracea ) .
The most exquisite specimens of this variety are from San Domingo ( fossil ) , where it abounds in the Miocene beds .
It is always small ; but is larger and coarse on the Australian shores , passing insensibly into D. Tarbo .
It is common in the Grignon Tertiary deposits , rare in our Crag , and world-wide in the present seas .
Discorbinac Turbo , D'Orbigny , sp. , Var. vesiczlaris , Lam .
, sp. , Subvar .
globularis , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 20-23 ( Arctic ) .
This small vesicular form of ) .
Tutrbo , D'Orb .
, sp. , is D. globularis , D'Orb .
, sp. ( Modele , No. 69 ) , from the Atlantic ; and the same as EGGER'S osalinR a semipunctat/ a , Neues Jahrb .
1857 , pl. 4 .
figs. 1-3 .
It is smaller than D. vesicularis , Lamarck , sp. ( = ) .
Gervillii , D'Orb .
, sp. , Modeles , No. 72 ) , and has fewer chambers .
It is a world-wide form in shallow water and down to 70 fathoms , at which depth , west of the Bay of Biscay , it abounds ; it is , however , flatter here than when nearer the shore .
In deeper water it becomes d. Berthelotiana and I. rosacea , D'Orb .
, spp .
At the Hunde Islands ( SUTHERLAND'S Soundings ) it is large and rather common at from 30-40 fathoms ; and middle-sized and common at from 50-70 .
Discorbina Tzrbo , D'Orbigny , sp. , Var. vesiczlaris , Lamarck , sp. , Subvar .
obtusa , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 18 , 19 ( Arctic ) .
JDiscorbina presents a simple Rotaline form of shell , usually having more or less vesicular chambers , with porous walls , and with the septal apertures in many cases guarded by flaps or plates , which sometimes form small secondary umbilical chambers .
The specimen here figured is near to D. globularis , D'Orb .
, sp. ( Modele , No. 69 ) , but may either be i'egarded as a swollen condition of the beautiful D. Parisiensis , D'Orb .
, sp. ( Modele , No. 38 ) , or , rather , as D. vesiccularis with the style of ornament characteristic of ) .
Parisiensis .
The nearest approach to it among published figures is made by D. obtusca , D'Orb .
, sp. , For .
Foss .
Vein .
pl. 11 .
figs. 4-6 .
The coarseness of its pores , its few and subvesicular chambers , its large central chamber , and its peculiar ornamentation , are the chief characters of the variety before us .
In the Arctic specimens the ornament appears as obscure , irregularly radiating , minutely granular lines on the lower face [ not well shown in the figure ] ; in D. Parisiensis the under surface has an exquisite sculpturing of minutely granulate lines or ridges ; D'ORBIGNY'S D. obtusa has a granular ornament in radiating lines [ not well shown in the figure ] .
D. globigerinoides , Plate XIX .
fig. 7 , a new variety of B. Turbo , also has this kincl of ornament , being thickly covered on the septal plane with sinuous exogenous rugae , having large pores opening out of them , thus presenting a rudiment of the canal-system .
At the Hunde Islands , B. obtusca is large and rare at 28 to 30 fathoms ; large and rather common at 30 to 40 ; and large and common at 60 to 70 fathoms .
386 Discorbina Turbo , D'Orbigny , sp. , Var. Parisiensis , D'Orbigny , sp. , Subvar .
] ?
erthelotiana , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XVI .
figs. 26 , 27 ( North Atlantic ) .
Discorbina Berthelotiana , D'Orb .
, sp. ( For .
Canar .
pl. 1 .
figs. 28-30 ) , may be regarded either as a compressed and more or less limbate form of D. globularis , D'Orb .
, sp. , or , rather , as intermediate to D. globularis , D'Orb .
, sp. , and D. Parisiensis , D'Oib .
, sp. ( Modeles , No. 38 ) , but without the ornamentation below .
It is generally small ; usually showing an umbilical flap or angle ; but in fig. 27 a granule represents it .
This variety makes a near approach to the strongly limbate Discorbina Binkhorsti , Reuss , sp. ( Sitz .
Akad .
Wien .
1861 , vol. xliv .
pl. 2 .
fig. 3 ) , of the Maestricht Chalk ; and , though it resembles some of the margined Globiyerince of the Chalk , it has no relationship with them .
Our fig. 26 is much more limbate than the specimen figured by D'ORBIGNY ; but they are essentially the same .
D. Berthelotiana occurs on the marginal plateau off Ireland , small and rather common at 78 fathoms , and small and rare at 43 fathoms .
Genus ROTALIA .
Rotalia Beccarii , Linn. , sp. ( Varieties ) .
Plate XVI .
figs. 29-34 ( North Atlantic ) .
Rotalia has a finely porous shell ( coarser than that of Pulvinulina and finer than Calcarinca ) ; biconvex ( lowest side thickest ) , with round margin ; made up of from thirteen to forty chambers , with double septa ; canal-system present .
Septal lines and umbilicus often beaded with exogenous granules , sometimes to a great extent .
Aperture a slit ( occasionally subdivided ) , sometimes notched at the umbilical margin of the septal plane , as in Pulvinulina , Discorbina , and arrested Planorbulinae .
Shell rarely prickly ; occasionally Asterigerine ; generally small , compared with most other Rotalines ; or , rather , it does not attain to quite as great a size .
Scheme of the chief subspecies of ROTALIA .
RoTALIA Schroteriana , Parker and Jones .
See Carpenter , Introd .
For .
pl. 13 .
figs. 7-9 .
ornata , D'Orb .
, sp. , For .
Amer .
Mer .
pl. 1 .
figs. 18-20 .
craticulata , Parker and Jones .
Plate XIX .
fig. 12 .
( Fiji .
) annectens , Parker and Jones .
Plate XIX .
fig. 11 .
( Hong Kong .
) pulchella , D'Orb .
, sp. , For .
Cuba , pi .
5 .
figs. 16-18 .
See Carpenter , Introd .
For .
p. 213 .
dentata , Parker and Jones .
Plate XIX .
fig. 13 .
( Bombay Harbour .
) -BECCARII , Linn. , sp. , D'Orbigny 's Modeles , No. 74 .
This is the Type species .
ammoniformis , D'Orb .
Ann. Sci. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 276 .
No. 53 .
( After SOLnANI .
) lobata , D'Orb .
, sp. , For .
Cuba , pl. 5 .
figs. 19-21 .
See Carpenter , Introd .
For .
p. 213 .
carinata , D'Orb .
, sp. , For .
Cuba , pl. 5 .
fig. 25 , pl. 6 .
figs. 1 , 2 .
Soldanii , D'Orb .
ModUles , No. 36 .
umbilicata , D'Orb .
An. Not .
Sci. vol. vii .
p. 278 .
No. 4 , and Mem. Soc. Geol. .
Fr. vol. iv .
pl. 3 .
figs 4-6 .
orbicularis , D'Orb .
Modeles , No. 13 .
Rotalia affords us a good example of the parallelism that may be traced between the members of one and another Foraminiiiferal species ( just as occurs in other natural groups ) .
Thus , contrasted with Polystomella , we have an interesting series of representative forms .
Parallelism of ROTALIA BEccAPII and POLYSTOMELLA CRISPA .
eVrieties of ROTALIA BECCARII .
Varieties of POLYSTOMELLA CRISPA .
Rotalia Schrceteriana , Parker and Jones .
Polystomella cratictlata , Fichtel and Moll .
Beccarii , Linn. ( large typical form ) .
crispa , Linn. ammonifornlis , D'Orb .
( flat var .
Rimini ) .
macella , lFichtel and Miion .
Beccarii , Linn. ( small smooth var .
) .
-striato-puncataa , Fichtel and M7oll .
dentata , Parker and Jones .
--strigilata ( var .
f3 ) , Fichtel and Moll .
Soldanii , D ' Orb .
( Nonionina ) asterizans , Fichtel and MiVoll .
-orbicularis , D'Orb .
( Nonionina ) pompilioides , Fichtel and Mion .
( Calcarina ) pulchella , D'Orb .
unguiculata , Gmel .
-(Asterigerina ) lobata , 2D'Orb .
( Nonionina ) stelligera , D'Orb .
The nearness of the two specific groups is also seen in our new Botalia craticzdatac ( Plate XIX .
fig. 12 ) being separable from Polystomella crispa chiefly by its want of symmetry ; and , further , R. Schroeterianca passes into B. craticzblata by a greater differentiation of the canal-system , which approaches its most perfect condition in the higher Polystomellae .
Rotalia Beccarii , Linn. , sp. Plate XVI .
figs. 29 , 30 ( North Atlantic ) .
Figs. 29 &amp; 30 present a strongly granular condition on the lower surface , and may be said to be passing into the smaller varieties that belong to deep water ; indeed , they are intermediate between the common R. Beccarii of shallow water and the variety known as R. Soldanii , D'Orb .
( Modeles , No. 36 ) , that inhabits deep water .
With flattened and adpressed chambers on the upper side , and without granules on the lower , figs. 29 &amp; 30 would be R. Soldanii ; such modifications are common .
R. Beccarii passes into R. Soldanii in deep seas everywhere ; but in hot seas it also passes into the large , conical , craticulate form ( B. Schrceteriana , Parker and Jones ) with pseudopodial passages , as in Polystomella .
Both in its estuarine and its abyssal varieties R. Beccarii is feeble , being delicate in shell and small in size .
Its smallest and most abyssal variety is B. orbiczlaris , D'Orb .
( fig. 34 ) , which is not abundant .
In about 100 fathoms R. Soldanii , with a diameter three times as great as that of R. orbicuclaris , is abundant enough , and is of stronger make .
The shell becomes larger , more vesicular and more granular in the best habitat of R. Beccarii ( 20 to 40 fathoms in warm seas ) ; and in shallow waters it is smaller ( of the size of R. Soldanii ) , less strong in its structure , even more vesicular , and extremely abundant ( even in some brackish waters ) .
Rotalia Beccarii from the Lido ( Venice ) and Rimini , both on the Adriatic , is very smooth and complanate ( although large and well-developed ) , compared with specimens 388 in the same latitude on the western shores of Italy and in fossil deposits ( formed in shallow water ) near Sienna ; whilst the same species in the south-eastern parts of the Mediterranean has much thicker and more granular varieties than those in the west of Italy , and becomes very like the great Rotalia Schrceteriana , Parker and Jones ( Ann. Not .
Hist. 3 ser. vol. v. p. 68 , and Carpenter 's ' Introd .
Foram .
' p. 213 , pl. 13 .
figs. 7-9 ) .
As we approach our own shores from the Mediterranean area , Rotalica Beccarii becomes gradually smaller but is still numerous : to the north it deteriorates more and more .
Rotalia Beccarii is rare and small at 78 fathoms on the Irish marginal plateau .
Rotalia Beccarii , Linn. , sp. , Var. Soldanii , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XVI .
figs. 31-33 ( North Atlantic ) .
This may be described as Rotalia Beccarii becoming flush-chambered , conical ( flat above ) , with a strong shell : in this form it inhabits deep water , about 100 fathoms ( from 50 to 300 fathoms ) .
D'ORBIGNY illustrated R. Soldanii by his Model , No. 36 .
It is the isomorph of Pulvinmtlina Midieliniana and of Planorbtizina ( Truncatulina ) refucl/ ens , which are the deep-sea forms of their respective species .
B. Soldanii is rare and small at 43 fathoms , rather rare and middle-sized at 223 fathloms , and common and middle-sized at 415 fathoms , on the western plateau .
It is rare and small at 1776 , 2035 , 2050 , and 2350 fathoms in the abyssal area .
It is very common in the Mediterranean ( at 100 fathoms ) , and fossil in the Subapennine clays .
Generally it is not so flat at the top as our figured specimens are ; but the upper faces of the cells are convex and separated by sulci ( see D'ORBIGNY'S Model ) .
Rotalia Beccarii , Linn. , sp. , Var. orbiczlaris , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XVI .
fig. 34 ( North Atlantic ) .
This extremely delicate and minute abyssal variety of R. Beccarii is but little removed from R. Soldanii ; but it is smaller , and has its upper face still flatter and smoother than in R. Soldanii .
It is in shape half an oblate spheroid , having the upper side flat , the lower forming a low rounded cone .
It may be said to be the starved abyssal variety of its species .
It occurs , but sparsely , in deep-sea soundings in all latitudes-tropical to north-temperate ; and it has been brought up from even 1000 fathoms and more , retaining its exquisite salmon-coloured sarcode .
D'ORBIGNY got his specimen , illustrated by Model No. 13 , from the Adriatic .
The best localities for it are the Red Sea , where it has degenerated from RB .
ornata and R. Sehrcmteriana , and in the Mediterranean area , where it is ancestrally related to R. Beccarii .
It becomes extremely small , one of the smallest even among starved Foraminifera ; and , as such , is very rare at Shetland and in the Irish Sea ( BRADY ) .
In the abyssal area of the Atlantic it occurs very rare and very small at 1950 fathoms .
30 Genus PULVINULIA .
Puzlvinlina repanda , Fichtel and Moll , sp. ( Varieties ) .
Plate XIV .
figs. 12-17 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
figs. 35-51 ( North Atlantic ) .
Ptclvinutlina repanda is the type of a group of Botalimn , as above mentioned ( page 378 ) , of which we have here five varieties .
Each of these belongs to a separate subspecific group ; and , though they are few among many , yet they are of considerable importance in their several sub-groups , and may well serve as a basis for a general account of Pulvinulina repanda specifically considered .
P. repanda , when well developed , has its shell-structure dense and minutely perforated , compared with that of other Rotalince ; more so than Rotalia Beccarii and CalcarinaG Spengleri , and much more so than Discorbinca Turbo and Planorbtzlina farcta .
In the delicacy of its tubuli ( almost as fine as those of dentine ) it rivals Nucmmulina and Heterostegina ; whilst the loose coarse structure of some of the larger specimens of Discorbina and Planorbulina remind us of that of the Echinoderm and Madrepore .
P2Plvinulina is most apt to take on an extra growth of shell-matter on the septal lines and the margins of the shell ( limbation ) , and among its very numerous varieties there are many that are strongly limbate , and are more or less compact in growth ; whilst other varieties are delicate , and become thin , outspread , Spirilline , and vermiculate .
the shell has from seven to nearly thirty cells , with single septa and but little trace of the canal-system : it is rarely prickly ; the umbilicus is often ornamented by granules , or by a boss , or a star of shelly matter ; the aperture is a large fissure , often arched , and notched ; and the septal face often bears numerous coarse subsidiary perforations .
The shell is usually biconvex ; the upper side the thickest ; the margin more or less angular and subcarinate ; some varieties are complanate , with square edges , as in RCEMER'S figures of P. caracolla and its allies from the Hils Clay and the Gault ; similar forms to these occur also in the Kimmeridge Clay of Kimmeridge .
We may divide the Pulvinutlince into five groups , as follows : First Group , or that including P. repanda proper .
In its typical form P. repanda is a spiral coil of chambers , forming a low conical shell , showing the spire , with a more or less open umbilicus ; some of the older chambers usually having limbate septa .
The shell has generally an irregularly oblong form ; the chambers rarely forming a symmetrical disk , never flush at the edges , but set on loosely , and usually increasing in size in a somewhat rapid ratio ; they present often a curved or sickle-shaped outline both above and below , or are curved and narrow above , broad and irregularly triangular below .
The umbilical portions of the chambers are generally very attenuate , fitting neatly as they converge to the centre .
Occasionally these lobes are separated by narrow chinks ; sometimes they are deficient , leaving a large umbilical gap .
The septal face is either gently convex , or flat ; in the latter case it is perforated with proportionally large holes .
The aperture is a large arched slit , occasionally notched at its upper margin .
Granulate ornament is not uncommon on the upper surface of the shell ; below , exogenous matter 390 may either fill the umbilical cavity , or affect the borders of the umbilical lobes , even to their union by a bridge-like growth .
Limbation is seldom absent from the border of the shell ; frequent on the older part of the spire ; and not uncommon with the later chambers .
Figs. 101-103 in Professor WILLIAMSON'S 'Monograph of British Recent Foraminifera ' represent a common condition of this typical form .
The members of Group No. 1 inhabit depths of about 10 to 100 fathoms .
The varieties affecting the shallow water are less neat in their make than those of greater depths .
Second Group , characterized by P. Autricula and P. oblongza .
In this group the , shells are far more oblong in shape , from the very rapid increase of size of the chambers ; and , as a rule , they are much more delicate and frail than the foregoing , although sonie small deep-sea varieties of this subtype are unusually dense .
The septa and borders are rarely limbate .
The septal face of the last chamber is usually drawn out and inflated , but narrow , and , by an umbilical process , overlaps the alar terminations of the older chambers .
This feature has caused D'ORBIGNY to class several varieties of this subtype as species of his genus Valvulina .
In some cases a portion of the septal face near the umbilicus is flattened and pertused ; and this feature is usually associated with some degree of limbation of the upper septal lines .
The whole of the septal face is flattened and coarsely perforate in certain forms lying between P. Auricula and P. repanda .
The aperture is similar to that in Group No. 1 ; but occasionally there is a large subsidiary notch .
The umbilical lobes terminate in a similar manner to what obtains in the typical group ; and the umbilicus , as in the former , may either be closed , by the meeting of the lobes , or remain slightly open , or be largely excavate .
The varieties in which the lastnamed feature occurs are small deep-sea forms , having dense shell-tissue , a flattened hispid upper surface , with flush chambers ; the under surface being gently convex and highly polished .
As a rule , in each of the subgroups of P. repanda , here described , the thick-set varieties are those that inhabit deep water .
The members of the Group No. 2 have their best home at 50 to 70 fathoms ; but they range from shallow water ( algal zone ) to 500 fathoms or more .
The Third Group , including P. Menardii.-This is an assemblage of closely related varieties , differing however considerably in feature .
Some are very flat and scale-like , some conical , some biconvex .
The flat forms have usually a somewhat oblong outline ; but the members of this group are mostly circular , with indented septal lines ; the chambers are sometimes triangular on both surfaces ; though sometimes narrow and curved , or oblong , or even square above and more or less triangular below .
P. Menardii and its nearest allies are margined and limbate on the upper surface , and often granular , scabrous , or hispid .
These features are less striking in other varieties which pass gradually into feebly marked , smooth , thick , small , untypical forms .
The septal face is still large in this group , gently convex or flat ; sometimes sinking in at a spot near the aperture , which is often boldly notched .
The chambers of these shells are fewer than in the " repanda- " or " type-group " ; but in the better developed specimens they have the 3G2 391 same rapid increase of size , with the same neat convergence of the umbilical lobes ; the lines between them , however , being usually straighter .
The conditions of the umbilicus resemble those of the typical group ; but the contracted form of the shell , in certain varieties , raises up the umbilical portions of the chambers into the apex of a cone , the base of which is the neat and almost flat spiral surface .
The members of this group , all of which are mutual companionls , are obtained from abyssal depths , 100 to 2700 fathoms .
Fourth Group , characterized by P. Sclreibersii.-These shells have more numerous chambers than we find in the foregoing groups , nor do they enlarge with age so rapidly .
The lower surface shows but few chambers ( 5-11 ) , in contrast with those seen above ( 15-30 ) ; whilst in groups Nos. 1-3 , all except the four or five earliest chambers are seen on the umbilical as well as on the spiral surface , on account of the spire being subdiscoidal , whilst in P. Schreibersii and its allies the spire is helical or subturreted .
There is also a greater tendency to limbation ( exogenous shell-growth on the septal lines and the margin ) , especially about the umbilicus , where a knob , a group of granules , or a star-like ornament is not unusual ; hence this may be termed the " stellar " group .
These , moderately deep-sea forms for the most part , have often the thickest shells of any among the subtypes , especially P. Schreibersii itself , as found in the muds of the Gulf of Suez at about 40 fathoms .
This group has a very extensive bathymetrical range .
Fifth Group , with P. elegans as the leading form.-This is closely allied to the last group in its general features , and may be said to represent a further development of its peculiarities .
We have here a series of neat , compact , more or less biconvex , and for the most part limbate Pulvinulince .
The limbation is less constant on the upper ( spiral ) than on the lower surface , on which latter a symmetrical wheel-like ornament is often found , imitating such as occurs on some rlautiloid Cristellarit .
On the upper surface the limbation is sometimes strongly developed , both on the septal lines and the margin , and in some cases ( P. D'Orbiqnii , Rcemer , and P. ornata , Roemer ) masks the spire altogether .
On the other hand the limbation may be but slight ; and in P. Cordieriacna , excepting as regards the umbilical boss , it is nearly obsolete .
Some subvarieties of P. elegans itself appear with little exogenous or limbate ornament .
In this group the shell is polished to the utmost ; and in the same gatherings from very deep water P. Mlenardii will be in its roughest condition and P. elegans will be highly enamelled and glistening .
It is always neat and nautiloid .
The group ranges from 70 to 1000 fathoms .
392 Pulviniulina repanda , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. punctulata , D'Orbigny , [ sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 12 , 13 ( Arctic ) .
Though flatter , this is essentially the same as Pulvinulina punctulata , D'Orb .
, sp. , Modele , No. 12 .
When smaller , more limbate , and less compact in growth , it passes into more ordinary varieties , such as P. repanda , Fichtel and Moll , sp. ( Botalina concamerata , Williamson , Monogr .
pl. 4 .
figs. 101-103 ) .
In our former description of the Norwegian Foraminifera , we mistook this large variety for a large growth of Discorbina vesicularis , Lam .
, sp. It is represented , in Messrs. MAcANDREW and BARRETT'S dredgings , by one specimen from sand at West Fiord ( Nordland ) from 60 fathoms depth , and eight specimens that occurred on sponge from 100 fathoms at Vigten Island , Inner Passage ( Drontheim ) .
It lives also in the Adriatic ( D'ORBIGNY ) and at Orotava ( Canaries ) ; and is abundant and large off Sicily , and in the Levant , and in many other parts of the world at moderate depths .
The huge specimens from the Crag , larger than our Norwegian specimens , lean more to the looser and few-celled type figured by WILLIAMSON .
Pulvinulina relpanda , Fichtel and Moll .
, Var. Menardii , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XVI .
figs. 35-37 ( North Atlantic ) .
Pulvimnulina ]ienacrdii , D'Orb .
, Modeles , No. 10 , is a deep-sea form of P. repanda ; it is in best condition at from 100-500 fathoms , but lives well at even three miles depth ; in shallow water ( algal belt ) it becomes either conus-shaped , or much depressed with a large keel ( P.pauperata , Parker and Jones , Plate XVI .
figs. 50 , 51 ) ; whilst P. repanda ( the type ) becomes vermiculate , abounding in the Mediterranean as Ptlvinulina vermiculata , D'Orb .
, sp. ( Planorbulina vermiculata , D'Orb .
, Ann. Sc. vii .
p. 280 , No. 3 ; after SOLDANI ) , At from about 30-100 fathoms in the Mediterranean the typical P. repanda abounds ; and in the same sea the obtusely conical P. Milcheliniana , represents the species abundantly at from 500-1500 fathoms on muddy tracts , whilst the flatter form ( P. Menardii ) common in the depths of the great oceans seems to be wanting there .
P. Micheliniana is also potent in the Arctic seas and North Atlantic ; and is fossil in great numbers in the Chalk .
P. Menardii is generally limnbate and granulo-aciculate ; the specimens before us are more or less limbate and have roughish shells .
They are not numerous , nor have they attained the fulness of size and beauty that belong to the species in lower latitudes ; the further north , the poorer they are ; for those in the Mid-Atlantic ( DAYMAN ) are generally somewhat larger than those in the North Atlantic ( WALLICH'S Collection ) ; and this is the case with other species and varieties .
In the Atlantic the proportion of Pulvinulina to the Foraminiferal fauna is perhaps not -1^oth of what will be found in the deep water of tropical and subtropical seas .
In the North Atlantic Pulvinulina Menardii is widely distributed .
On the marginal plateau off Ireland it is rare and small in the shallow , less rare and larger in the deeper part .
It is of middle size and common in the " Celtic " portion , and rather rare 394 throughout the " Boreal " portion of the abyssal tract ( 1400-2 300 fathoms ) ; and neither large nor common at 329 fathoms north of Newfoundland Bank .
Mr. BRADY has some fine specimens from the Irish Sea .
Pzlvinulina rep anda , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. Menardii , D'Orbigny , sp. , Subvar .
Canariensis , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XVI .
fig. 47-49 ( North Atlantic ) .
Plvinulina Cancriensis , D'Orb .
, For .
Canar .
pl. 1 .
figs. 34-36 , is a dwarf form of P. Menardii , common but distinct among the larger specimens in deep water , and widely distributed from the north to the Tropics .
It is more attenuate than well-grown specimens of the subtype ( P. Mienardii ) , and usually is very imperfectly limbate .
D'ORBIGNY'S figure has a limbate upper surface , and the mouth more patent on the lower plane than in our specimen : but these modifications are of continual occurrence. .
P. Canariensis may be said to be a starved form among well-fed ones ( as happens with Globigerince and many other Foraminifera ) ; yet it is well to keep it apart with a name , as , should it occur without P. Menardii , it would bespeak an unfavourable habitat .
In the North Atlantic Pulvinulina Canariensis is wide-spread .
On the eastern marginal plateau it is common and small at 78 fathoms , rare and small at 338 fathoms , and rare and middle-sized at 415 fathoms .
In the " Celtic " abyssal tract it is rather common ; throughout the " Boreal " portion also ( 1400-2300 fathoms ) it is rather common , but smaller .
North of the Bank , at 161 fathoms , and in Trinity Bay , it is rare and small .
Pulvinulina repanda , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. Mena(rdii , D'Orb .
sp. , Subvar .
pauperata , nov .
Plate XVI .
figs. 50 , 51 a , 51 b ( North Atlantic ) .
Pulvintlina pauperata is rare , usually small , and nearly symmetrical ; found at great depths ( 2000 fathoms ) in both high and low latitudes , and is often much larger in the latter than in the former .
It presents a feeble , and , as it were , accidental condition , in which the thin film of sarcode surrounding the few feebly marked chambers has been calcified beyond their verge .
Though it is very small here , we have seen this variety ( from subtropical seas ) as large as the largest P. ]lenardii .
In tropical seas ( Tropical Atlantic and Indian Ocean ) it is large but rare .
This variety occurs in company with P. Menardii and P. Canariensis , which are found taking on a margined condition , with feebly developed chambers , thus connecting the depauperated variety under notice with themselves .
Comparing this deep-sea attenuated form with those of shallow water , we see that the latter become vermiculate , losing the power of forming separate chambers .
P. pauperata is rare in the North Atlantic ( the figured specimens are all we met with ) ; in the " Boreal " tract , towards Newfoundland Bank it is middle-sized at 1450 fathoms ; and in the Abyssal " Celtic " tract it is small .
395 Pulvinulina repanda , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. Ui-enardii , D'Orbigny , sp. , Subvar .
Micheliniana , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XIV .
fig. 16 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVI .
figs. 41-43 ( North Atlantic ) .
This small compact conical Pulvinulina occurs in deep water .
Its deepest known habitat is at 2700 fathoms ( South Atlantic ) .
It is very common in the North Atlantic .
In the Mediterranean it flourishes at 400-500 fathoms on muddy bottoms , being larger there than our figured specimens ; it then takes the place of P. Menardii .
In shallow water it degenerates into bizarre varieties .
P. Micheliniana abounds fossil in the Chalk and Gault , and was first described by D'ORBIGNY in his Memoir on the Foraminifera of the " White Chalk of Paris , Mem. Soc. Geol .
de France , vol. iv .
pl. 3 .
figs. 1-3 , together with another closely allied variety of P. Mlenardii ( P. crassa , D'Orb .
, sp. , loc. cit. figs. 7-8 ) ; as well as a third variety ( P. Cordieriana , D'Orb .
, loc. cit. figs. 9-11 ) , a member of the P. elegans group of P. repanda .
At the Hunde Islands this usually deep-sea form , P. -M3icheliniana , is represented by rare and small individuals at 25-30 fathoms .
Plate XVI .
figs. 41-43 ( North Atlantic ) .
From the Arctic Ocean we had but very few specimens of P. Micheliziazna , owing to the paucity of deep-sea soundings .
In the North Atlantic it is very common ; and generally very rough or scabrous in its shell-tissue ; in fact it may be said to be here P. tru1ncatulinoides , D'Orb .
, sp. ( For .
Canar .
pl. 2 .
figs. 25-27 ) , and the two forms are scarcely worth separating by distinct names .
On the Irish marginal plateau it is rare and small in the shallow , rather common and large in the deep parts .
In the " Celtic " abyssal depths it is common and rather large ; but in the " Boreal " tract ( at upwards of 2000 fathoms ) it is smaller and rarer ; and nearer to the Bank it is rare and small at 1450 fathoms .
Pulvinulina repanda , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. Karsteni , Reuss , sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 14 , 15 , &amp; 17 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XV .
figs. 38-40 ( North Atlantic ) .
This is a neat , many-chambered , moderately conical variety of P. repandca , with some degree of limbation bordering the chambers , especially beneath , where a wheel-like system of exogenous shell-matter characterizes the shell .
This occurs in each of the soundings at the Hunde Islands ( SUTHERLAND ) , and is common and of middling size in most of them .
It is found also at 150 fathoms in Baffin 's Bay , lat. 76§ 30 ' , long .
77§ 52 ' ( PARRY ) .
It is small at Shetland ( BRADY ) .
Plate XVI .
figs. 38-40 ( North Atlantic ) .
Pulvintulina Karsteni , ,Reuss , sp. ( Zeitsch .
deutsch .
geol .
Ges .
1855 , vol. vii .
pl. 9 .
fig. 6 ) , is usually smaller and more conical than P. lienardii , also rounder , quite smooth , and free from the limbation on its upper face , which is present in P. Xenardii ; on its lower 396 face , however , the margin and sometimes the septal furrows are limbate ( a feature usually wanting in P. Menardii ) ; an umbilical knob is sometimes present also ; and with this as a nave , and the septa for spokes , the shell has a wheel-like aspect .
A closely allied and still more conical form ( R ? .
Schreibersii , D'Orb .
, For .
Foss .
Vein .
, pi .
8 .
figs. 4-6 ) , having a stellate umbilicus and neatly radiating septa , is the leading member of the group of varieties of P. repanda , among which P. Karsteni is arranged ; it is found recent in the muds of the Gulf of Suez and the Red Sea ( at 40 fathoms and thereabouts ) , and is fossil in the Tertiary beds of Tuscany and the Vienna Basin .
Though differing from it a little in details , the North Atlantic specimens here figured are still more like REUSS'S figure than is the Arctic specimen , Plate XIV .
fig. 15 , which in some respects is nearer to D'ORBIGNY'S figure of Pulvinulina Antillarum ( Foram .
Cuba , pl. 5 .
figs. 4-6 ) , an allied form .
REUSS 's figure is intermediate to the Arctic and North Atlantic specimens .
In Trinity Bay P. Karsteni is rare but large at 133 fathoms , lat. 48§ 18 ' , long .
52§ 56 ' .
It occurs at 2700 fathoms in the South Atlantic .
Pulvinulina repanda , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , Var. elegans , ID'Orbigny , sp. Plate XVI .
figs. 44-46 ( North Atlantic ) .
Our specimens show an unusually non-limbate condition of Pulvinulina elegans , which is a subtype of the P. repanda group , and was chosen as a species by D'ORBIGNY from amongst SOLDANI'S figures ( Sagg .
Oritt .
pl. 2 .
fig. 2 , R ; Ann. .
Sc. Not .
vii .
p. 276 , No. 54 ) .
P. elegans has a neat , smooth , and highly polished shell , varying always in limbation and conicity .
The excess of characters in this subtype is found in P. caracolla , Rcemer , sp. , P. ornata , Raem .
, sp. , and P. D'Orbignii , Roem .
, sp. ( Norddeutsch .
Kreid .
pl. 15 .
figs. 22 , 24 , 25 ) , of the Cretaceous deposits .
In our specimens we have nearly an equality with P. Partschiana , D'Orb .
, sp. ( For .
Fos .
Vein .
pl. 8 .
figs. 1-3 ) , excepting as to limbation : and , further , we may regard our specimens as feeble forms of P. elegans with a tendency towards P. umbonata , Reuss ( Zeitsch .
d. g. Ges .
vol. iii .
pl. 5 .
fig. 35 ) .
P. elegans abounds at from 100 to 200 , and even to 300 fathoms .
Forms intermediate to P. elegans and P. Karsteni are common in clays of the Secondary Formations ( Oxford and Kimmeridge Clays , and Upper Trias of Chellaston ) .
In the North Atlantic P. elegans is common , but small , at 78 fathoms on the eastern plateau ; rare and small at 1660 fathoms in the abyssal area ( " 'Boreal " ) ; but rather common and larger at 1450 fathoms .
It is sa 11 at 15 fathoms in the Irish Sea ( BRADY ) .
Genus SPIRILLINA .
Spirillina vivipara , Ehrenberg .
Plate XV .
fig. 28 ( Arctic ) .
For an account of Spirillina , see Ann. Not .
Hist. 2 ser. vol. xix .
p. 284 , and CARPENTER'S Introduct .
Foram .
p. 180 .
There is often a difficulty in distinguishing this form from its isomorph , the vermiculate Pulvinula ; the numerous and non-segmented whorls decide the doubt in this instance .
Sp. vivipara is rare anywhere , and always small .
We have it in the mixed sands from Norway ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) , and from 60 to 70 fathoms , Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND ) ; in deep water it is represented by the better developed Sp. margaritifera , Williamson .
Genus PATELLINA .
Patellina corrugata , Williamson .
Plate XV .
fig. 29 a , 29 b , 29 c ( Arctic ) .
This species has been well figured and described by Professor WILLIAMSON ( Monogr .
p. 46 , pl. 3 .
figs. 86-89 ) ; see also CARPENTER'S Introd .
Foram .
p. 230 .
We have P. corrugata from the Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND'S dredgings ) , at from 30 to 70 fathoms ; where it is common and small throughout .
Professor WILLIAMSON had it from the same source , and found it in several sands on the British coasts .
It is present in most sea-beds that are rich with Foraminifera , from the littoral zone down to 500 fathoms ; but is rarely in great abundance .
Genus NUMMULINA .
Nummulinac perforata , Montfort , sp. , Var. planulata , Lamarck .
Plate XIV .
figs. 45 a , 45 b ( Arctic ) .
From the Red Sea FICHTEL and MOLL got two little lummulinae very similar to the specimens before us ; Professor WILLIAMSON also has similar specimens from the British coast ; and in Mr. JUIKES'S Australian dredgings Nummulince of like character abound , but larger , and passing into Operculince .
These are degenerate forms of Nummulina planulata , once so abundant in the Eocene ( or Nummulitic ) Tertiary period , and existing still later in , at least , the Vienna area ( Middle Tertiaries ) .
N. planulata itself is a simple form of the better-developed N.perforata , Montfort , which in its extreme growth became N. nummzlaria , Brug .
( N. complanata , Lam .
) .
This small form of N. planulata ( subvar .
radiata , Fichtel &amp; Moll .
) is rather common at the Hunde Islands in 25 to 30 fathoms .
See also Ann. Not .
Hist. ser. 3 .
vol. v. pp. 105-107 .
Besides the above-mentioned localities , the Abrolhos Bank in the South Atlantic and Bombay Harbour are places where N. planulata has been found .
Nummnulina perforata , Montf .
, sp. , Var. ( Operculina ) ammonoides , Gronovius , sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 44 a , 44 b ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 62 , 63 ( North Atlantic ) .
This is the diminutive and northern representative of the much larger Operculina complanata , Defrance , sp. , which is a varietal form of Nummulina .
The last ( Nummulina ) is but poorly represented now-a-days ( as far as our knowledge goes ) ; but Operculina is sometimes almost , if not quite , as large in the Australian , New Zealand , and Philippine seas as ever it was in the Cretaceous , Eocene , and Miocene times .
See Ann. Not .
Hist. 3 ser. vol. viii .
p. 220 , &amp;c. Dr. CARPENTER has specially studied the structure of Operculina , Phil. Trans. 1859 ; and Introd .
Foram .
p. 247 , &amp;c. pl. 11 .
398 Operculina ammonoides is very common in the mixed sands from Norway ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) .
On the Irish plateau of the North Atlantic it is common at 43 , 78 , 90 , 223 , and 415 fathoms ; and rare at 200 fathoms .
It abounds in the North British seas ; in Professor WILLIAMSON'S Monogr .
it appears under the name of Nonionina elegans .
It is found also in the Mediterranean and Red seas , and at Australia and Fiji .
Genus POLYSTOMELLA .
Polystomella crispa , Linn. , sp. Plate XIV .
fig. 24 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
fig. 61 a , 61 b ( North Atlantic ) .
Polystomella comprises many closely allied forms , which , on account of their apparent dissimilarity , have been usually grouped under Nonionina and Polystomella .
Their differences , however , are not sufficient to destroy the value of their correspondences in structure .
The shells are symmetrically discoidal , either lenticular or subglobular , more or less Nautiloid , having from about fifteen to thirty , or many more , neatly fitting , more or less sickle-shaped chambers , with the aperture at the base of the septa ; and this may be either a simple low arch-like opening , or it may be crossed by bars so as to be a grating , or a row of pores : this multiplicity of stolon-passages is the condition which gave the name to this genus in particular , and to the Foraminifera " altogether .
The gradations from the simply notched septum of some Nonionince , to the barred apertures of others ( N. Faba , Fichtel and Moll , sp. ) , and thence to the curved row of pores in Polystomella proper , are very well marked in numerous modified varieties .
Another feature of the genus is the masking of the septal furrows of the shell , by " retral processes , " or lobes on the posterior edges of the chambers , connected by bridges of exogenous shell-matter to the fronts of the preceding chambers , and thus forming pits or " fossettes " along the septal lines .
The mouths of the canal-system open into the " fossettes ; " but the latter are not a part of that system .
The processes and the bridges or bands vary much in thickness , in proportion to the higher standing of the more strongly grown varieties of this species ; and this increase of shell-matter on the surface of the shell , until it has a sculptured or basket-work appearance , accompanied more or less with keel , spines , and umbones , is also traceable through very gentle gradations .
The " bridges " occur freely , in P. Arctica and other forms , when the retral lobes are nearly obsolete , and thus they form crenulations on the edges of the chambers .
As the soft parts of the animal afford us no distinctive specific characters , all these modifications of shell-structure fall into a series of varietal differences among the individuals of one species , subject to different conditions of existence and consequent modes of growth .
In its symmetry of shell Polystomella resembles Nummulina , but it has a canalsystem different from that of the latter ; and , though the aperture in Nuinmulina is in the same position ( at the base of the septum ) as in Nonionine Polystomellae , yet the very * As being distinct in so much from the single-tubed Cephalopods , with which they were classed .
slight attempt to modify it by subsidiary pores in Nummulina is sufficient to indicate an inability to depart from a special plan .
The feebler Polystomellae ( Nonionine ) are , with their neat shell and simple aperture , isomorphic with some Nummulince , especially if we compare some of the more strongly limbate of the former with the small " Operculine " or " Assiline " varieties of the latter ( Nonionina limba compared with Operculina ammonoides ) ; but the shell-tissue is more dense and tubuliferous in the latter ( as in Nummulina proper ) , and the perfect marginal rim and the canal-system are wanting in the former .
Again , both in some of its higher ( Polystomella macella ) and lower forms ( Nonionina turyida ) Polystomella loses its horizontal symmetry , which Nummulina ( except in some Operculine individuals ) never does ; the asymmetrical ally of Nummulina ( Amphistegina ) being sufficiently differentiated as to canal-system and other points to be regarded as specifically distinct .
The close linking of Nonionince with Polystomella , especially by means of the graduated subdivision of aperture , and modification of lateral fossettes , retral processes , and septal bridges , is too strong to be in any way antagonized by the merely isomorphic resemblances of the former with Nummulina ; and " Nonionina " is rightly suppressed as a generic term , being merged in " Polystomella , " which well represents the peculiar features of the fairly developed , but not exaggerated , natural type .
See Ann. Not .
Hist. 3rd ser. vol. v. p. 103 , &amp;c. ; CARPENTER'S 'Introduct .
' p. 286 , &amp;c. Scheme of the POLYSTOMELLE .
A. Canal-system , retral processes of the chambers , and the septal bridges and apertural bars , all highly developed .
Polystomella craticulata , Fichtel and Moll , sp. 1B .
Canal-system feebly developed ; but the retral processes , septal bridges , and apertural bars perfect .
P. CRISPA , Linn. , sp. P. strigillata , Fichtel and Moll , sp. P. unguiculata , Gmel .
, sp. P. macella , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , &amp;c. C. Canal-system , the septal bridges , and apertural bars well-developed , but the retral processes abortive .
P. Arctica , Parker and Jones .
D. Canal-system and retral processes feebly developed , but the bridges over the septal lines and the bars across the aperture perfect .
P. striatopunctata , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , and P. Faba , Fichtel and Moll , sp. E. Canal-system , retral processes , septal bridges , and apertural bars all abortive more or less .
Nonionina limba , D'Orb .
N. stelligera , D'Orb .
N. asterizans , Fichtel and Moll , sp. N. Scapha , Fichtel and Moll , sp. N. depressula , Walker and Jacob , sp. F. Canal-system , retral processes , septal bridges , and apertural bars all obsolete : there may , however , be granular shell-growth on the umbilici .
N. granosa , D'Orb .
N. umbilicatula , Montagu , sp. N. turgida , Williamson , sp. 400 Both the feeble ( Nonionine ) and the well-grown varieties of Polystomella are distributed very widely , but avoid great depths .
The thick-shelled P. craticulata is found in tropical seas ; the medium-conditioned P. crispa is extensively spread about in temperate seas ; P. Arctica and P. striatopunctata are the best of the species found in cold seas .
The Nonioninwe accompany their better-grown congeners ; N. asterizans and N. depressula afecting temperate climates ; V. Scapha and N. umbilicatula being found more often in the warmer seas .
Polystomella crispa stands midway between those Nonionince that begin to take on a barred aperture and perforated septal furrows , and those that have cribriform septa and a surface masked with septal bridges and other exogenous shell-matter ; it is therefore a good type , showing the generic and specific characters without exaggeration .
It has been well illustrated and described by WILLIANISON , CARPENTER , and SCHULTZE ; and its many modifications , in the recent and fossil state , have received as many names .
In some Tertiary beds P. crispa is plentiful ; and it abounds at the present day in temperate and warm seas .
We find P. crispa in the dredgings from the Hunde Islands ( at 25 to 30 fathoms ) rare and small ; and very rare and small in the North Atlantic at 725 fathoms , north of the Newfoundland Bank .
Polystomella crispa , Linn. , sp. , Var. Arctica , nov .
Plate XIV .
figs. 25-30 ( Arctic ) .
One of the varietal stages presented by the simpler Polystomellc is characterized by double pores for the canals in lines along the septal furrows of the shell , an advance upon the simple single pores of P. striatopunctata , and an approach to the higher Polystomelle .
These double-pored furrows belong to a rounded , bun-like , Nonionine shell , with barred aperture , sparsely perforated septa , and a tendency to irregularity of growth ; the neat , definite , lenticular , sharp-edged , discoidal shell of Polystomella proper being but poorly represented as yet .
The essential characters , however , of pores in the furrows and septal apertures are not to be mistaken , although the retral processes of the chambers and the intervening fossettes are very rudimentary .
The spiral lamina is finely perforate .
This form differing from the smaller P. striatopunctata , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , in having double pores for its lateral canals , shows thus much a differentiation of the shell*structure in relation to the forking tubes , which are single in P. striatopunctata ( figs. 31-34 ) .
With this exception , and with some additional apertures , P. Arctica keeps to the simple type ; but it attains a semigigantic size , having a similar relation to P. striatopunctata that P. craticulata has to P. crispa .
One individual ( fig. 27 ) shows a tendency to produce rough exogenous accumulations of shell-substance , as is the habit of P. craticzlata .
P. Arctica is peculiar to the most northern seas , and occurs plentifully at the Hunde Islands at from 30 to 40 and 60 to 70 fathoms ( SUTHERLAND ) in company with P. striatopunctata .
Mr. H. B. BRADY has found it in Mr. JEFFREYS'S dredgings made at Shetland , in some abundance , and of a brown colour .
401 Polystomella crispa , Linn. , sp. , Var. striatopunctata , Fichtel and Moll , sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 31-34 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
fig. 60 a , 60 b ( North Atlantic ) .
This is a smooth , round-edged , Nonionine shell , variable in its thickness and in the number of bridges over the septal furrows .
The aperture is more or less divided by bars , and may have supplemental pores .
Individuals presenting two stages in this variety are described and figured by WILLIAMSON under the name of Polystomella umbilicatula and P. umbilicatzla , var .
incerta , Monograph , p. 42 , &amp;c. , pl. 3 .
figs. 81 , 82 , 82 a. Some of our figures ( Plate XIV .
figs. 32-34 ) show but little of the septal markings ; but in fig. 31 , and Plate XVII .
fig. 60 , these are much more apparent , for the furrows are more distinctly bridged over by the posterior crenulation and retral processes of the chambers , and conspicuous fossettes are formed .
SCHULTZE has also illustrated this form ( EHRENBERG'S Geoponus Stella-borealis , well figured by him in the Berlin Acad. Trans. 1841 ) and some near allies in his 'Org .
Polyth .
' pl. 6 .
figs. 1-9 ( Polystomella gibba , P. Stella-borealis , and P. venusta ) .
P. striatopunctata is widely distributed in both warm and cold seas , but not in deep water .
It occurs in Tertiary and Post-tertiary deposits , sometimes abundantly , and is a characteristic fossil of the Post-pliocene clays of Canada ( DAWSON ) and of the coast of Scotland ( Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. vol. xiv .
p. 521 , note ) .
We have P. striatopunctata , rather rare and small in the mixed Norwegian sands ( MACANDREW and BARRETT'S dredgings ) ; in all Dr. SUTHERLAND'S dredgings from the Hunde Islands ( 25-70 fathoms ) , where it is usually common and large .
Also from Baffin 's Bay ( PARRY ) , lat. 75§ 10 ' , long .
60§ 12 ' , rare and very small ; lat. 76§ 30 ' , long .
770 52 ' , 150 fathoms , common and middle-sized ; lat. 750 , long .
59§ 4(0 ' , 220 fathoms , very rare and very small .
In the North Atlantic it is found on the eastern marginal plateau at 43 fathoms common and small ; at 78 fathoms very rare and very small ; at 223 fathoms rare and small ; and north of the Newfoundland Bank it occurs rare and small at 145 fathoms , very rare and very small at 161 , rather common and middle-sized at 740 ; rather rare and small at 725 ; rare and small at 954 fathoms .
Polystomella crispa , Linn. , sp. , Var. ( Nonionina ) Faba , Fichtel and Moll , sp. Plate XIV .
fig. 36 ( Arctic ) .
Nonionina Faba is a small , delicate , ovate-oblong shell , with the later chambers much larger than those first formed .
The septal furrows are bridged by little processes from the advancing chambers , and the septal aperture is barred or subdivided .
In these latter features N. Faba shows an advance of structure beyond UN .
Scapha towards Polystomella proper , in which the septa are cribriform and the surface of the shell fenestrated .
It occurs both fossil and recent in the Mediterranean area .
We have it from the Hunde Islands , where it is rather rare and of middle size at from 25 to 30 fathoms ; rather common and large at 30 to 40 ; and common and large at 60 to 70 fathoms ( SUTHERLAND'S dredgings ) .
N. Faba among these delicate oblong Nonionince , and P. striatopunctata among the 402 FORAMIItFERA FROM THE NORTH ATLANTIC AND ARCTIC OCEANS .
less feeble Nautiloid forms make advances towards the true Polystomellan characteristics ; thus showing that they certainly are within one and the same specific limits ; moreover , the next variety , i. Scpyha , is seldom quite free from bridges across the divisions of its chambers on each spiral lamina , as may be seen in figs. 37 and 38 , Plate XIV .
Polystomella crispa , Linn. , sp. , Var. ( Nonionina ) asterizans , Fichtel and Moll , sp. Plate XIV .
fig. 35 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 54 a , 54 b ( North Atlantic ) .
This is a small , many-chambered , Nautiloid Nonionina , somewhat variable in its features , but having a slight umbilical growth of exogenous shell-matter often radiating along the septal furrows for some distance .
This star-like limbation is much exaggerated in N. Limba , D'Orb .
( Modeles , No. 11 ) , and curiously modified with flaps in J. stelligera , D'Orb .
( For .
Canar .
pi .
3 .
figs. 1 , 2 ) .
N. asterizans varies as to its granulations and stellate umbo , readily passing into .
granosa and into N. stelligera .
Fig. 35 is of a stronger make than the latter , and is such as frequents deeper water than that does .
It is from the Hunde Islands ( SUTHERLAND'S dredgings ) at from 25 to 30 fathoms , where it is common but small .
N. asterizans is common in the British seas in shallow water .
Plate XVII .
fig. 54 differs from the Arctic specimen as to the umbo , but is not sepa .
rable .
It is from 740 fathoms north of Newfoundland Bank .
The tribe of small Nonionince converging round Nonionina asterizans , although conveniently considered as a subspecific group , yet in reality are essentially of the same specific type as that to which Polystomella crispa belongs .
They may be said to present arrested or feebly developed conditions of the form in which , under other circumstances , a luxuriant growth of exogenous shell-matter symmetrically bridges over the septal lines , and otherwise thickens and ornaments the shell .
Nonionina Limba , D'Orb .
, belongs to this group , and is very apt to take on the characters of the type in connexion with its own , and thus to pass insensibly into it .
It is a Tertiary form , at Grignon , Bordeaux , &amp;c. Polystomella crispa , Linn. , sp. , Var. ( Nonionina ) depressula , Walker and Jacob , sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 39 a , 39 b ( Arctic ) .
This is a delicate feeble form of Nonionina asterizans , Fichtel and Moll , sp. , with the stellation of the umbilici imperfect .
It is common in the shallow sea-zone and in the brackish water of river-mouths and salt-marshes of the British area ; and is the commonest shell in the clay of our Eastern Counties fen-district , excepting at the margin of that sub-recent deposit , for there Trot chammina injata attains its highest development and abounds most .
This form is very apt to turn up , all the world over , in such shallow water as is rendered somewhat unfit for rhizopodal life by the presence of large quantities of earthy or vegetable matter , for instance , in bays , harbours , estuaries , &amp;c. We have it from the Hunde Islands ( SUTHERLAND'S dredgings ) common and small at from 25 to 30 and 50 to 70 fathoms ; common and middle-sized at from 60 to 70 fathoms .
403 Polystomella crisa , Linn. , sp. , Var. ( Nonionina ) stelligera , D'Orb .
, sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 40 , 41 ( Arctic ) .
This delicate and variable Nonionina was first described by D'ORBIGNY as occurring at the Canaries ( For .
Canar .
, p. 123* , pi .
3 .
figs. 1 , 2 ) .
It differs from N. asterizans in being altogether more delicate and feeble , and in the exogenous matter having the form of a radiating series of thin flaps , which cover over the inner half of the septal sulci on each face of the shell .
It inhabits shallow waters of the Atlantic and the Australian coast .
We find it in the dredgings from the Hunde Islands , throughout , from 25 to 70 fathoms , and in the mixed sands from Norway .
Polystomella crispa , Linn. , sp. , Var. ( Nonionina ) Scapha , Fichtel and Moll .
, sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 37-38 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 55 , 56 ( North Atlantic ) .
In this , almost the lowest form of Nonionina ( the small and more or less oblique N. turgida being still feebler ) , the successive chambers enlarge at a greater ratio than they do in N. asterizans and its allies ; hence the shell is ovato-oblong instead of discoidal ; it has the shape of the Argonauta , instead of that of the Nautilus .
It is N. commznis , D'Orb .
The shell varies from the complanate condition ( fig. 37 ) to the gibbose ( fig. 38 ) , and to the subglobose ( figs. 55 , 56 ) ; occasionally faint traces of the septal fossettes characteristic of Polystomella can be recognized ( fig. 38 a ) ; but the aperture is still a simple arch-like slit ( fig. 38 b ) ; whilst in the next stage ( N. Faba , fig. 36 ) the fossettes and the barred aperture occur together .
N. Scapha occurs in warm seas rarely at great depths ; it is found in the British seas ; and the Arctic dredgings show that it also lives at high latitudes .
It occurs in Baffin 's Bay at lat. 75§ 10 ' , long .
60§ 12 ' , rare and of middling size ; lat. 760 30 ' , long .
77§ 52 ' , at 150 fathoms , very common and of middling size .
At the Hunde Islands it is abundant at from 25 to 70 fathoms , sometimes of large size , usually middling .
It abounds in many Tertiary deposits , Grignon , Bordeaux , Subappennines , San Domingo , English Crag , &amp;c. Plate XVII .
figs. 55 , 56 ( North Atlantic ) .
Nonionina Scapha is rare and small at 225 fathoms on the Irish plateau of the North Atlantic ; absent apparently in the central area ; rare and of middle-size at 145 fathoms north of the Bank ; very rare and middling at 161 , 329 , and 725 fathoms , and very rare and very small at 954 fathoms along the same tract ; in Trinity Bay it is rare and middle-size at 124 , 133 , and 150 fathoms .
The very gibbose specimen , figs. 55 , 56 , is the same as N. Labradorica , Dawson ( Canad .
Geol .
Not .
vol. v. 1860 , p. 192 , fig. 4 ) , found by him both recent in the Gulf of St. Lawrence and fossil in the Post-pliocene clays of Labrador and Maine .
The specimens from Newfoundland Bank are rare and have a deadish look , as if drifted from their more favourable northern habitats .
Polystomella crispa , Linn. , sp. , Var. ( Nonionina ) umbilicatula , Montagu , sp. Plate XIV .
figs. 42 a , 42 6 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 58 , 59 ( North Atlantic ) .
This is a small , neat , many-chambered , Nautiloid Nonionina , with hollow umbilici .
See Ann. Not .
Hist. 3rd ser. vol. iv .
pp. 346 &amp; 347 , and vol. v. p. 101 , &amp;c. , for a comparison of this and other Nonionine .
It is common at greater depths than most other Nonionnac ?
, except N. Scapha , affect ; it is found in warm seas , and occurs in many Tertiary deposits .
We have it in the mixed sands from the Norway coast ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) .
In the North Atlantic N. umbilicatula is common and of middle-size on the marginal plateau off Ireland , at 78 , 90 , 223 , and 415 fathoms : in the abyssal depths it is rare and small at 1776 , rather common and middle-sized at 1950 , rather common and small at 2050 and 2176 fathoms ; and at 2350 fathoms in the " Boreal " part of the abyss it is rare and small : north of Newfoundland Bank , at 329 fathoms , and in Trinity Bay at 150 fathoms , it is very rare and small ; cold water having as bad an influence on it as abyssal depth .
This form , being flush-celled , is more thoroughly changed in character from the type than the feeble varieties found in shallow water , such as P. stelligera and P. depressula .
In these the vesicularity of the chambers allows of the formation of some rudiments of the retral processes , the overlying bridges , and the intervening fossettes ; but in this deeper-sea variety the septal walls of contiguous chambers become perfectly adapted , and their edges grow close together at the surface of the shell .
This is well shown in the recent and fossil specimens of this kind from the Mediterranean area ; further north , however , it scarcely holds its own , and intermediate forms are always turning up , which connect this with the vesicular varieties .
Polystomella crispa , Linn. , sp. , Var. ( Nonionina ) turgida , Williamson , sp. Plate XVII .
figs. 57 a , 57 b , 57 c ( North Alantic ) .
A delicate ovate Nonionina ; the chambers increasing so rapidly in size that the discoidal form is lost , and we have the shape of the Argonauta instead of the Nautilus .
The latter chambers , too , in adult specimens are apt to be swollen at the umbilical margin , concealing the spiral parts of the shell , and hanging over a little more on one side than the other .
Our figured specimen is much thicker and more symmetrical than Professor WILLIAMSON'S Botalina turgida ( Monogr .
p. 50 , pl. 4 .
figs. 95-97 ) , but they both belong to the same variety .
NV .
turgida is found in shallow and brackish water in the British area ; and occurs especially in the sub-recent clay of Peterborough Fen , rather common , but extremely small , starved , and one-sided .
We have it from the Irish plateau of the North Atlantic at 43 and 223 fathoms , rare and small .
Genus VALVULINA .
Valvulina triangularis , D'Orbigny , Var. conica , nov .
Plate XV .
fig. 27 ( Arctic ) .
This is a very simple condition of Valvulina .
The triserial arrangement of chambers forms a smooth conical figure , without any trace of the three flat faces so usual in this .
species .
A similar condition , but depressed , is shown in V. fusca , Williamson , sp. Valvulina conica , Parker and Jones , was described and figured in the Annals Not .
Hist. 2 ser. xix .
p. 295 , pl. 11 .
figs. 15 , 16 , but not named separately from the better developed type , which has a triangular apex .
It is also figured by Dr. CARPENTER , op .
cit. pl. 11 .
fig. 16 .
It occurs with the typical form , both in the fossil and the recent state ( extremely large in sea-sands from Melbourne ) ; it is rare and small in the mixed sands from Norway ( MAcANDREW and BARRETT ) .
It lives also in the Mediterranean and on the Abrolhos Bank , South Atlantic .
The type , V. triangularis , U'Orb .
( Modeles , No. 23 ; CARPENTER'S 'Introd .
Foram .
' p. 146 , pl. 11 .
fig. 15 ) , though occurring of large size ( with V. conica , also very large ) in Australia , is usually rare ; but it has been marvellously common and large in Tertiary times , as shown by specimens from Grignon and Hautville ( France ) .
Lituola nautiloidea , Lamarck , Var. Canariensis , D'Orbigny , sp. Plate XV .
figs. 45 a , 45 b ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 92-95 ( North Atlantic ) , Of the disco-spiral Lituole most are attached and therefore more or less plano-convex ; when growing free , however , they attain the more symmetrical , somewhat biconvex , and nautiloid shape of L. Cianariensis , without attaining the outgrowing rectilinear series of chambers shown in LAMARCK'S L. nautiloidea , and still more in L. irregularis , Rcemer , sp. Lituola Canariensis , D'Orb .
, sp. ( Foram .
Canaries , p. 128 , pl. 2 .
figs. 33 , 34 ) , has , like other Lituolw , a rusty coloured shell-substance among the sand-grains that largely make up its shell .
We have a few large specimens from Finmark ( East of Rolfs O ) , 30 fathoms ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) ; and some small specimens from the mixed sands from Norway .
At the Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND ) it is large and common throughout ; and in the sands from Baffin 's Bay ( PARRY ) it is most common and sometimes large .
In the North Atlantic it is rare ; on the Irish plateau it is small at 43 fathoms and middle-sized at 223 fathoms ; and it is middle-sized at 1203 fathoms north of the Bank , and at 133 fathoms in Trinity Bay .
The British coasts , Abrolhos Bank , Hobson 's Bay ( Australia ) , and Fiji are other localities for L. Canariensis .
Fig. 94 is probably not worth separating from L. Canariensis ; its chambers are either imperfect or obsolete .
406 i'ituola nautiloidea , Lamarck , Var. globigeriniformis , nov .
Plate XV .
figs. 46 , 47 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 96-98 ( North Atlantic ) .
In this low form of Lituola the chambers are subglobular and agglomerated , presenting an isomorph of Globigerina ; the somewhat scanty and rusty-red shell-substance cementing the sand-grains is characteristic , as in Litutola nautiloidea proper .
Lituola gloigeriniformis is small and common at the Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND ) from 30 to 70 fathoms .
It is small also in Baffin 's Bay ; being common at 75§ 10 ' lat. , 600 12 ' long .
, and rare at 75§ 25 ' lat. , 60 ?
long .
( 314 fathoms ) , and 750 lat. , 59§ 40 ' long .
( 220 fathoms ) .
In the North Atlantic it is'rare and middle-sized at 1660 fathoms in the " Boreal " portion of the abyss ; and very rare and small north of the Bank at 145 and 954 fathoms .
It is figured by Dr. AWALLICH in ' The North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' pl. 6 .
fig. 22 .
L. globigeriniformis , Parker and Jones , is common , but small , in the Mediterranean ; in our paper in the Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. vol. xvi .
Table , p. 302 , it is referred to as ' L. pelgica , D'Orb .
, , sp. , " as we then mistook the yellowish acerose Globiqerina named " Nonionina pelagica " by D'ORBIONY for our Lituola .
It is present in the Red Sea , the Indian Ocean , and the South Atlantic .
Lituola nautiloidea , Lamarck , Var. Scorpiurus , Montfort , sp. Plate XV .
figs. 48a , 48 b ( Arctic ) .
Lituola Scorpiuzrs , Montfort , sp. , is a simple , linear , slightly curved , and , as it were , abortive variety of L. nautiloidea , Lamarck ( see Anin .
Not .
Hist. 3 ser. vol. v. p. 297 ; and CARPENTER'S 'Introd .
Foram .
' p. 143 ) .
It is of very common occurrence in shelly deposits , recent and fossil .
It is common and large at the Hunde Islands , 25 to 40 fathoms ; common and middlesized in Baffin 's Bay , 75§ 10 ' lat. , 60§ 12 ' long .
; and rather common and very large at 150 fathoms , 76§ 30 ' lat. , 77§ 52 ' long .
The late Mr. L. BARRETT obtained large specimens of L. Scorpiurs in deep water off Jamaica , of very large size , labyrinthic , and passing into L. Soldanii , Parker and Jones .
L. Scorpiurus lives also in the Adriatic , the North and South Atlantic , and in the Australian seas .
Genus TROCIIAMMINA .
Trochammina squamata , Parker and Jones .
Plate XV .
figs. 30 , 31 a , 31 , 31c ( Arctic ) .
This is the subvesicular Rotaliform Trochammina ( Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. vol. xvi .
p. 305 ) , having lunate , flattened chambers , several in a whorl , and regularly increasing with the progress of growth ; it much resembles those flatter varieties of Discorbina Turbo which are intermediate between D. globularis and 1 .
rosacea , but it has an arenaceous shell ; it is also like some little scale-like varieties of Valvulina triangularis ; but the latter have only three chambers in a whorl , and are more coarsely sandy .
3i2 Trochammnina squanata , the type of the species , is usually rare ; it is small and rare at 360 fathoms off Crete ( Captain SPRATT'S soundings ) .
At the Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND'S dredgings ) Troch .
squamata is rare at 30 to 40 fathoms , common at 60 to 70 fathoms , but small throughout .
Trochammina squamata , Var. gordialis , Parker and Jones .
Plate XV .
fig. 32 ( Arctic ) .
Trochamnmina gordialis , Parker and Jones ( CARPENTER'S 'Introd .
Foram .
' p. 141 , p.11. .
fig. 4 ) , presents sometimes an irregularly coiled tube , having but little segmentation ; sometimes it presents long , inwound , tubular chambers .
It is common and small at 60 to 70 fathoms at the Hunde Islands , together with the type .
It occurs in the Red Sea , and is found involutely coiled ( commencing with a few irregularly segmented chambers , and continued as a long tube , turned and twisted on itself ) in the Indian seas ; the so-called Serpula pusilla of the Permian limestones is a very similar little Foraminifer .
Troch .
incerta , D'Orb .
, sp. , is discoidal , tubular , and without segments .
The next stage beyond that seen in fig. 32 is that form of Troch .
squamata shown by fig. 31 .
Genus CORNUSPIRA .
Cornuspirafoliacea , Philippi , sp. Plate XV .
fig. 33 ( Arctic ) .
The characters and relationships of this flat , spiral , non-segmented Milioline Foraminifer are treated of in CARPENTERS ' Introd .
Foram .
' p. 68 .
It inhabits the shallow seazones of every climate , and is found fossil ( Tertiary ) .
We find it common in Dr. SUTHERLAND'S dredgings from the Hunde Islands , where it is small at 60 to 70 fathoms , and of middle size at 25 to 30 fathoms .
It is figured by Dr. WALLICH in ' The North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' pl. 5 .
fig. 12 .
C. foliacea is extremely large ( fossil ) in the Crag of Sutton , Suffolk ; in the recent state it is very large off Crete , and is found also living on the British coasts , in the Red Sea , the South Atlantic , and on the western and southern shores of Australia .
Genus MILIOLA.* Miliola ( Spiroloculina ) planulata , Lamarck .
Plate XVII .
fig. 82 ( North Atlantic ) .
The type of the symmetrical and flattened group of Miliole , Spiroloculina planulata , Lamarck , is often abundant in sea-sands and in Tertiary deposits .
In the North Atlantic it is rare ; of middle size at 43 fathoms off Ireland ; middlesized at 2050 fathoms , and small at 2330 fathoms in the abyssal area .
Dr. WALLICH figures it in The North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' pi .
5 .
fig. 13 .
Miliola ( Spiroloculina ) limbata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVII .
figs. 83 a , 83 b ( North Atlantic ) .
Here the edges of the chambers are limbate , or thickened with shell-growth , a nonessential feature .
It is figured by SOLDANI and named by D'ORBIGNY , Ann. Sci. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 299 , No. 12 .
We have Spiroloculina limbata rare and small from the Irish marginal plateau of the North Atlantic , at 78 fathoms .
It is not rare in the existing seas , and occurs in the Tertiary deposits .
Miliola ( Biloculina ) ringens , Lamarck .
Plate XV .
figs. 42-44 ( Arctic ) .
Taking the Biloculine .
Iiliolwe by themselves , this well-known common Biloculina ringens , Lamarck , is the type of a very variable group .
Not only the degree of globosity of the chambers , but the amount of overlap at the sides or at the ends , constitute infinite variations , presented in all seas .
Large Biloculinm ?
, but subject to great differences in the points above alluded to , were found abundantly in nearly all the dredgings from Norway .
Fig. 44 represents a highly globose and striated specimen from Norway .
Dr. WALLICH figures B. ringens in The North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' pl. 5 .
figs. 1 , 3 , 4 , 6 .
Miliola ( Biloculina ) depressa , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVII .
figs. 89 a , 89 b ( North Atlantic ) .
This depressed form of Biloculina ringens is not uncommon in both the recent and fossil ( Tertiary ) states .
D'ORBIGNY illustrated it by his Modele , No. 91 .
It occurs in several soundings from the North Atlantic , though rare in each .
It is small on the Irish plateau at 43 and 78 fathoms ; small at 2176 fathoms , and middlesized at 1450 , 1660 , and 2350 fathoms in the abyss .
It is figured in Dr. WALLICH'S 'North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' pl. 5 .
figs. 2 , 5 , 8 .
Miliola ( Biloculina ) elongata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XVII .
figs. 88 , 90 , 91 ( North Atlantic ) .
Biloculina ringens contracted gives B. elongata , figured by SOLDANI and named by D'ORBIGNY , Ann. Sci. Not .
vol. vii .
p. 298 , No. 4 , and not rare wherever other Biloculince exist .
We have B. elongata from the North Atlantic , small and rare in the deep , at 1950 , 2050 , and 2330 fathoms .
MFiliola ( Triloculina ) tricarinata , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
fig. 40 ( Arctic ) .
Triloculina tricarinata , D'Orb .
( Modeles , No. 94 ) differs from Tr. trigonula , Lamarck , in having produced or keeled edges .
Our figured specimen has rather flatter sides than are usual .
Tr. tricarinata , D'Orb .
, has a very wide distribution and , like T. trigonula , Lam .
, abounds in some Tertiary beds .
The sea-sand near Melbourne , Australia , yields large specimens of Tr. tricarinata , together with striped Tr. trigonula .
At the Hunde Islands Tr. tricarinata is small , common at 25 to 30 fathoms , rare at 60 to 70 fathoms .
409 Miliola ( Triloculina ) cryptella , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
fig. 39 ( Arctic ) .
This is an extremely inflated and short Triloculine Miliola , its chambers overlapping so much more than in the symmetrical trigonal forms , that in some instances the antepenultimate chamber is but little exposed .
It is not common .
Triloculina cryptella , D'Orb .
, For .
Amer .
Mer .
p. 70 , pl. 9 .
figs. 4 , 5 , approaches closely , in appearance , to Biloculina sphmara , D'Orb .
, op .
cit. p. 66 , pl. 8 .
figs. 13-16 , with which it was found at the Falkland Islands .
B. sphcera has its chambers so much overlapping that it scarcely shows the penultimate chamber ( as characteristic of Biloculina ) , Tr. cryptella having so much overlap in its chambers that it scarcely shows the antepenultimate ( as characteristic in Triloculina ) .
Tr. cryptella is a curious isomorph of Sphceroidina ( p. 369 ) , and might easily be mistaken for it , for both are white in colour ; the texture , however , is hyaline in Sphacroidina ( related to Globigerina ) , and opake in Triloculina , as in all Miliolce .
We have Triloculina cryptella from Baffin 's Bay , 750 25 ' lat. , 600 long .
, where it is rather common and middle-sized at 314 fathoms .
Miliola ( Quinqueloculina ) Seminulum , Linne , sp. Plate XV .
figs. 35 a , 35 b ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
fig. 87 ( North Atlantic ) .
Figs. 35 a , b represent a neat form of the typical and widely distributed Miliola ( 1 .
Seninulum , Linn. , sp. ) , such as is common in deepish water , and well figured by D'OnBIGNY as Quinqueloculina triangularis ( For .
Foss .
Vienn .
p. 258 , pl. 18 .
figs. 7-9 ) .
It is from Norway .
Fig. 87 , from the North Atlantic , is a sandy specimen , but is not so coarsely built up as the variety known as Q. agglutinans , D'Orb .
( Plate XV .
fig. 37 ) .
Q. Seminulum is common and large on the Norway coast ; common and rather small at the Hunde Islands ; rare and small at 220 fathoms in Baffin 's Bay .
In the North Atlantic soundings it is small ; common at 43 and 78 fathoms , and rare at 90 fathoms on the Irish plateau ; rare at 2035 , 2050 , and 2350 fathoms in mid-ocean ; and rare and of middle size at 954 fathoms north of the Bank .
In his 'North-Atlantic Sea-bed ' Dr. WALLICH figures Q.Seminulum , pl. 5 .
figs. 9 , 10 , 15 ; and Q. secans , fig. 7 .
Q. triangularis takes the place of the typical Q. Seminulum in many parts of the Mediterranean and Red Seas , and of the Indian , South Atlantic , and Pacific Oceans .
Miliola ( Quinqueloculina ) agglutinans , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
figs. 37 a , 37 b ( Arctic ) .
Quinqueloculina agglutinans , D'Orb .
( For .
Cuba , p. 195 , pl. 12 .
figs. 11-13 ) , is a welldeveloped , often rusty-red , arenaceous Miliola Seminulum , of wide distribution , and varying much with the character of the sea-bed .
The shell-substance cementing the grains of sand may be reddish in Quinqueloculina , though on white sand in Australia its shell becomes white , and on black sand at Orotava , Canaries , it is black .
We have Q. agglutinans , of middle size , from the Hunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND ) , 410 rare at 30 to 40 fathoms , common at 60 to 70 fathoms .
Is rare and midde-sized in Baffin 's , Bay , 75§ 10 ' lat. , 60§ 12 ' long .
( PARRY ) .
Miliola ( Quingueloculina ) Ferussacii , D'Orbigny .
Plate XV .
figs. 36 a , 36 b , 36 c ( Arctic ) .
Qminqueloculina Ferussacii , D'Orb .
( Modeles , No. 32 ) , is a coarsely ribbed or plicated form of Q. Seminulum ( the type of the Yliliol ) ; , it is very variable , and is known by a host of names .
It is found in some abundance in the European and other seas , and also in the Tertiary deposits .
At the Hunde Islands it is common and middle-sized at from 30 to 70 fathoms .
Miliola ( Quinqueloculina ) oblonga , Montagu , sp. Plate XV .
figs. 34 , 41 ( Arctic ) ; Plate XVII .
figs. 85 a , 85 b , 86 a , 86 b ( North Atlantic ) .
When Miliola Seminulumn , Linn. , sp. , is contracted in its growth , it produces very variable forms , in which the normal lateral exposure of the chambers does not take place ; and somewhat elongate , oblong , Quinqueloculine and Triloculine forms are the result , such as Q. oblonga , Montagu , sp. , which is often Triloculine in aspect , and has been registered as Triloculina oblonga by D'ORBIGNY and others ( see Annals Not .
Hist. 2 ser. vol. xix .
p. 300 ) ; but it often has indications of its being really a poorly developed Quinqueloculine Miliola .
Quinqueand Tri-loculince are excessively variable shells , both as to shape and ornament , and are amongst the most common Foraminifers in all latitudes and depths .
We have two genuine Triloculinwc in the Arctic dredgings ( Hunde Islands ) ; but the so-called Triloculina oblonga is an ill-grown Quinqueloculina .
It usually abounds in company with the typical Miliola Seminulum ; the largest specimens we know of are fossil in the Lower Crag of Sutton , Suffolk .
It is one of the most abundant of the Quinqueloculine varieties .
This feeble Quinqueloculina Seminulum , with a Triloculine aspect , is common and large in most of the Norway dredgings ( MACANDREW and BARRETT ) ; common and small at the Hunde Islands ( SUTHERLAND ) at 25 to 30 fathoms .
We have it very rare and very small from 2330 fathoms in the North Atlantic .
Figs. 14 &amp; 16 , in pi .
5 of Dr. WALLICH'S ' North-Atlantic Sea-bed , ' also illustrate this variety .
Miliola ( Quinqueloculina ) subrotunda , Montagu , sp. Plate XV .
figs. 38 a , 38 b ( Arctic ) .
A small , roundish , biconvex variety of Miliola Seminulum , Linn. , often , accompanying other Miliolce .
It may be said to be a dwarf of the variety Q. secans , D'Orb .
, and is very widely distributed .
At the IIunde Islands ( Dr. SUTHERLAND'S dredgings ) it is common at 60 to 70 fathoms .
Miliola ( Quinqueloculina ) tenuis , Czjzek .
Plate XVII .
fig. 84 ( North Atlantic ) .
A nearly complanate , but often curved , thin , more or less unsymmetrical Quinqueloculine Miliola , named Quinqueloculina tenuis by CZJZEK in his description of some fossil Foraminifera from the Vienna Basin , in HAIDINGER 's Abhandl .
Wiss .
vol. ii .
p. 149 , pl. 13 .
figs. 31-34 .
This tiny shell , which presents an extreme enfeeblement of Q. Seminulum , Spiroloculine in aspect and twisted on itself , occurs at great depths in the Mediterranean and other seas .
We find it fossil in the Lias clay of Stockton , Warwickshire .
In the North Atlantic Q. tenuis is small ; rather common at 415 fathoms on the marginal plateau off Ireland ; rare at 2050 fathoms in the abyss .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE XII .
Map of the Deep-sea Soundings , in the North Atlantic , from Ireland to Newfoundland , by Lieut.-Commander J. DAYMAN , R.N. , assisted by Mr. J. SCOTT , Master R.N. , H.M.S. Cyclops , 1857 .
With a Section of the Bed of the Atlantic Ocean from Valentia to Trinity Bay .
The soundings are given in fathoms .
Vertical scale 2000 fathoms to 1 inch .
Scales as 15 to 1 .
See APPENDIX VII .
This Map is copied from Commander DAYMAN'S Report on the Soundings ( 1858 ) ; indications of the Natural-History Provinces , and of the thirty-nine Soundings described in this memoir , being added .
NOTE .
In the 'Nautical Magazine , ' vol. xxxi .
No. 11 , November 1862 , was published " The Report on the Deep-sea Soundings to the Westward of Ireland , made in H.M.S. Porcupine , in June , July , and August 1862 , " by R. HOSKYN , Esq. , R.N. , with a Chart , showing the slope of the Eastern Plateau to be , in that line of soundings , at a less angle off Southern Ireland than Commander DAYMAN found it where he sounded .
PLATES XIII.-XIX .
illustrating the Foraminifera from the Arctic and North Atlantic Oceans , and other Foraminifera from other parts of the Atlantic , the Pacific , and elsewhere .
PLATE XIII .
( ARCTIC FORAMINIFERA .
) [ Figs. 1-19 are magnified 12 diameters ; figs. 20-58 , 24 diameters .
] Fig. 1 .
Glandulina lIevigata , J'Or6igny .
Fig. 2 , a , b. Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 , a , b. Nodosaria Radicula , Linn. Various individuals passing from Glandulina Fig. 5 , a , b. Icevigata , through Nodosaria humilis , to N. Radicula .
Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
412 Fig. 80 , a , b. Bigenerina Nodosaria , D'Orbigny .
Fig. 81 .
Bigenerina digitata , D'Orbigny .
Fig. 82 .
Spiroloculina planulata , Lamarck .
Fig. 83 , a , b. Spiroloculina limbata , D'Orbigny .
Fig. 84 .
Quinqueloculina tenuis , Czjzek .
Fig. 8'5 , a. Quinqueloculina oblonga , Montaguc .
Fig. 86 , a , 1 Fig. 87 .
Quinqueloculina Seminulum , Linne .
Fig. 88 .
Biloculina elongata , D'Orbigny .
Fig. 89 , a , b. Biloculina depressa , D'Orbigny .
Fig. 90 .
Fig. 910 Biloculina elongata , D'Orbigny .
Fig. 921 .
Fig. 92 .
Fig. 93 .
Fig. 94 .
Lituola Canariensis , D'Orbigny .
Fig. 94 .
Fig. 95 .
Fig. 96 .
] Fig. 97 .
Lituola globigeriniformis , Parker and Jones .
Fig. 98 .
PLATE XVIII .
( MISCELLANEOUS FORAMINIFERA .
) [ Figures 15-18 are magnified 30 diameters ; all the rest are magnified 60 diameters ( excepting fig. 6 b , 200 diameters .
) ] .
Fig. 1 , ca , b. Lagena trigono-marginata , Parker and Jones .
A rare form , from the inside of an Eocene Tertiary shell from Grignon* .
It is an isomorph of the trigonal Nodosarince .
See page 348 .
Fig. 2 , a , b. Lagena squamoso-marginata , Pcarker and Jones .
Living on the Coral-reefs of Australia ( JUKES ) ; fossil in the Middle Tertiary beds of San Domingo .
See page 356 .
Fig. 3 , a , b. Lagena radiato-marginata , Parker and Jones .
Rare .
Recent , Australian Coral-reefs ( JUKES ) ; fossil , Middle Tertiary , Bordeaux .
See page 355 .
Fig. 4 , a , b. Lagena crenata , Parlker and Jones .
Rare .
Recent , shore-sand at Swan River , Australia ; fossil , Middle Tertiary of Bordeaux and Malaga .
The figure well shows the characters of this pretty Lagena .
Decanter-shaped ; neck long and coiled ; body gradually widening and smooth to the base , which for half its radius is widely and deeply crenate with broad radiating furrows ; the centre of the base being smooth and gently convex .
Fig. 5 .
Lagena distoma-aculeata , Parker and Jones .
Rare .
Fossil at Grignon .
Isomorphous of prickly Todosarine .
See page 348 .
Fig. 6 , a , b. Lagena distoma-margaritifera , Parker and Jones .
Recent , from the surfwashed sponges at Melbourne , Australia .
See page 357 .
Fig. 7 , a , b. Lagena tubifero-squamosa , Parker and Jones .
Fossil at Grignon .
This very large globular Lagena , with a distinct and ramifying neck , has shallow honeycombings and a very thick shell , the outer layers of which decaying leave a very smooth , thin Lagena , ordinary-looking except for its neck .
See page 354 .
Fig. 8 .
Lagena distoma-polita , Parker and Jones .
A large , smooth , two-mouthed , fusiform Lagena , from the Red Sea and Australia .
See page 357 .
Fig. 9 , a , b. Lagena laevis , Montaytg .
A double individual ( monster ) .
Fig. 9b is a section .
Rare .
Recent , from the English Channel at Eastbourne .
See page 353 .
Figs. 10 , 11 .
Lagena laevis , Montagu .
Monstrous Lcgence , double by lateral growth .
Fossil , Grignon .
See page 353 .
Fig. 12 , a , b. Lagena lEevis , Milontagu .
Monstrous bilobed specimen .
Fossil : Grignon .
See page 353 .
Fig. 13 .
Nodosaria scalaris , Batscl .
For comparison with figs. 9 a , 9 b. See pages 340 and 353 .
Fig. 14 , a , b. Lagena tretagona , Parker and Jones .
A rare , delicate , feeble form of L. striato2punctata with four ridges and surfaces .
Fossil : Grignon .
See page 350 .
Fig. 15 .
Uvigerina ( Sagrina ) nodosa , D'Or6igny .
See page 363 .
Figs. 16 , a , b , &amp; 17 .
Uvigerina ( Sagrina ) Raphanus , Parker and Jones .
Recent : West Indies , Panama , India ( on Clam-shell ) , Bombay Harbour ( anchor-mud ) , Hong Kong ( anchor-mud ) , Australian Coral-reefs ( 17 fathoms ) .
See page 364 .
Fig. 18 .
Uvigerina ( Sagrina ) dimorpha , Parker and Jones .
Recent : Red Sea ( near the Isle of Shadwan , at 372 fathoms ) , Abrohlos Bank ( 260 fathoms ) , Australian Coral-reefs ( 17 fathoms ) .
See page 364 .
Fig. 19 .
Textularia Folium , Parker and Jones .
A very thin Textularia , with linear chambers , usually very unequal in their length , and forming a flat , pectinated , irregularly triangular or subrhomboidal shell , seldom so symmetrical in shape as the figured specimen .
Shore-sand near Melbourne .
See page 370 .
420 [ Figures 2 &amp; 3 are magnified 15 diameters ; figs. 1 , 4-13 , 25 diameters ( excepting fig. 5 c , 25 diameters .
) ] .
Fig. 1 .
Planorbulina Culter , Parker and Jones .
Very rare .
Tropical Atlantic ( 1080 fathoms ) .
A neat , discoidal , biconvex , trochiform Planorbulina , showing on its upper face about twenty-five ( often more ) neatly set chambers in a compact spire , bordered with a thin keel , as wide as a whorl of the chambers .
It is an extreme varietal condition of the subsymmetrical form , imitating Pulvinulina , and ought to have been noticed at page 379 , as a starved PI .
Ungeriana .
Fig. 2 .
Planorbulina retinaculata , Parker and Jones .
Parasitic on $hells , East and West Indies .
See page 380 .
Fig. 3 , a , b. Planorbulina larvata , Parker and Jones .
Indian Sea .
See page 380 .
Fig. 4 , a , b. Pullenia obliquiloculata , Parker and Jones .
Abrohlos Bank ( 260 fathoms ) , Tropical Atlantic ( 1080 fathoms ) , Indian Ocean ( 2200 fathoms ) .
See page 368 .
Fig. 5 , a , b , c. Sphaeroidina dehiscens , Parker and Jones .
Fig. 5 c , fragment of shellwall more highly magnified .
Tropical Atlantic ( 1080 fathoms ) and Indian Ocean ( 2200 fathoms ) .
See page 369 .
Fig. 6 , a , b , c. Discorbina rimosa , Parker and Jones .
Recent : India ( on Clam-shell ) .
Fossil : Tertiary , at Grignon , Hautville , Freville , La-Fosse-de-Launy , &amp;c. ( Sir C. Lyell 's Collection ) .
This is smaller than D. vesicularis , and close to it and D. elegans in alliance ; somewhat oval in shape ; shell-substance thick , pores large ; septal plane notched for aperture ; chambers very much larger in the newer than in the older part of the shell , and discrete ; and on the upper side several of the newer chambers are separated by chinks .
On the under side there are secondary chambers over the umbilicus , perfect , large , and astral , with chinks at their periphery .
See page 385 .
Fig. 7 , a , b , c. Discorbina globigerinoides , Parker and Jones .
Common in the Calcaire grossier of Grignon .
This Discorbina equals in size fine Tropical Globigerince , and reminds one of their form .
It is also isomorphous with Cymbalopora bulloides , D'Orb .
, sp. In appearance it is the very opposite of its real ally D. Parisiensis ; but it has much the same kind of septal face , the inner twothirds of which are thickly covered with sinuous wrinkles and granules of exogenous shell-matter , having large pores opening out of them , and thus presenting a rudiment of the canal-system .
A similar thickened surface , but formed of radiating granules , on the under side of the shell , is seen in ) .
obtusa , D'Orb .
, and D. Parisiensis , D'Orb .
LThe astral processes in D. globigerinoides are abortive .
See page 385 .
Fig. 8 , a , b , c. Iiscorbina polystomelloides , Parker and Jones .
From the Australian Coral-reefs ( JUKES 's dredgings ) .
This may be said to be a granulose form of i ) .
rimosa ; but it is larger , more symmetrical , and extremely rough ; and the chinks between the chambers are partly bridged over , so as to form a rough canal-system , as in some of the Polystomellc .
Fig. 9 , a , b , c. Discorbina dimidiata , Parker and Jones .
Large and profusely abundant among the surf-washed Sponges on the Melbourne coast .
This is merely D. vesicularis modified by being sharp-edged , and flat , and even scooped on the under face ( opposite to that which is flat in Truncatulina ) .
The astral flaps or valves are strongly marked over the umbilicus .
See page 385 .
Fig. 10 , a , b , c. Discorbina biconcaVa , Parker and Jones .
Shore-sand , Melbourne .
A very small isomorph of Planulina Ariminensis .
It is a hyaline , thick , limbate , square-edged , biconcave Discorbina , most concave on the umbilical face ( as usual with the genus ) .
Its astral flaps are feeble .
See page 385 .
Fig. 11 , a , b , c. Rotalia annectens , Parker and Jones .
Hong Kong ( anchor.mud ) and Fiji ( coral-reef ) .
A well developed Conus-shaped Rotalia , which has , on its under or umbilical surface , partially formed secondary chambers , owing to angular processes of the septa nipping the umbilical lobes .
It is thus a passage-form between R. Schrceteriana , P. &amp; J. , and R. ( Asterigerina ) lobata , D'Orb .
See page 387 .
Fig. 12 , a , b , c. Rotalia craticulata , Parker and Jones .
Fiji .
This Polystomelloid Rotalia is noticed by Dr. CARPENTER , Introd .
Study Foram .
p. 213 .
See page 387 .
Fig. 13 , a , b , c. Rotalia dentata , Parker and Jones .
Bombay Harbour ( anchor-mud ) .
A well-grown , biconvex Rotalia , with numerous subquadrate chambers , thickened and raised septal edges , rowelled margin , and massive umbilicus .
See page 387 .
APPENDIX I.-Additional North Atlantic Foraminifera .
The Rev. J. S. TUTE , of Markington , has shown us a set of carefully executed drawings of minute Foraminifera from 67 fathoms , Atlantic Soundings , belonging to the Rev. W. FOWLER , of Cleckheaton .
These comprise Globigerina bulloides .
Spirillina vivipara .
Planorbulina lobatula .
Ungeriana .
Textularia pygmsea .
Miliola ( young ) .
Also Pteropoda ( Cuvieria ' and Limacina ' ?
) .
Among the above , Spirillina vivpara is additional to our list of Foraminifera from the Atlantic Soundings .
See also page 368 .
With reference to very minute Foraminifera , such as are here referred to , it may be 422 THE NORTH ATLANTIC AND ARCTIC OCEANS .
observed that wherever Foraminifera are abundant small individuals are plentiful , but they very rarely represent other types than those to which the larger specimens are referable .
APPENDIX II.-Professor J. W. BAILEY 's Researches on the " Virginian " Foramniifera of the North Atlantic .
" Microscopical Examination of Soundings made by the U. S. Coast-survey off the Atlantic Coast of the U. S. By Professor J. W. BAILEY , " Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge , vol. ii .
1861 , Article IIIT .
The examination was made and reported in 1848 .
The soundings were taken off the coast of New Jersey and Delaware , from lat. 50 ?
to lat. 38 ?
N. , varying in depth from 10 to 105 fathoms .
In the deeper soundings Professor BAILEY found " a truly wonderful development of minute organic forms , consisting chiefly of Polythalamia " ( Foraminifera ) .
He also remarked that these deep soundings were from a sea-bed under the influence , more or less , of the Gulf-stream ; and that probably this might cause an immense development of organic life-giving rise to a " milky way of Polythalamia .
" Professor BAILEY also noticed that Foraminifera abundant in deep water would necessarily there make extensive calcareous deposits , contrasting with the quartzose and felspathic sands and muds of the coast .
We will , in the first place , give abridged notices of those soundings which were found to contain Foraminiifera ; and afterwards we will offer some remarks on Prof. BAILEY'S specific determinations , adapting them to the nomenclature used in this monograph , and so make them available for comparison with our " Celtic " forms .
E. No. 37 .
About South-east of Montauk Point ; lat. 40§ 59r 55 " , long .
710 48 ' 55f " : 19 fathoms .
Coarse gravel , mingled with ash-coloured mud .
With a few small Foraminfiera , chiefly Rotalinc ; a small bivalve Crustacean , Diatomacec , and Sponge-spicules .
E. No. 9 .
Lat. 40§ 21 ' 54t , long .
70§ 55 ' 35 " : 51 fathoms .
Greenish-grey mud or fine sand , with a few bits of shells , and a considerable number of Foraminifera , among which were Marginulina Bachei , Bailey ( fig. 5 , not abundant ) , obtulina D'OrUignii , Bailey ( figs. 9 &amp; 10 ) , and Bzulimina auriculata , Bailey ( figs. 25-27 ) .
F. No. 27 .
About South-east of Fire Island Inlet ; lat 40§ 14 ' 13 " , long .
72§ 21 ' 30 " : 20 fathoms [ material not described ] .
One specimen of Quingueloculina oceidentalis , Bailey ( figs. 46-48 ) ; with a spine of Echinus and small plates of an Echinoderm .
F. No. 24 .
Lat. 39§ 52 ' 40 " , long .
72 ?
14 ' : 49 fathoms .
Greenish grey , rather coarse sand , mixed with some mud .
Foraminifera rather abundant , comprising Marginulina Bachei , Bailey ( fig. 5 , rather common ) , Orbulina universa , D'Orb .
( fig. 1 , rare ) , a small Bulimina , a few small specimens of Globigerina ; also a few Sponge-spicules , a small Cypridiform Crustacean shell , and a spine of Echinus .
* As this memoir is referred to by Professor BAILEY in the Am .
Jouxn .
Se .
Arts , March 1854 , it was in print long before 1861 .
3L2 423 SO/ ME F. No. 25 .
Lat. 39§ 41 ' 10 " , long .
71§ 43 ' : 105 fathoms .
Fine greyish-green sand , very rich in Foraminifera , especially in Globigerina ( figs. 20-22 , Gl .
inflata , D'Orb .
) , with Marginutlinca BacJhei , Bailey ( fig. 5 , rare ) , and Tetttloariac Atlantica , Bailey ( figs. 11-13 , common ) ; also Sponge-spicules and Diatomacece .
G. No. 27 .
About East from Little Egg Harbour ; lat. 38 41 ' , long .
76§ 6 ' : 20 fathoms .
Fine-grained sand with black specks .
A few fragments of bivalve and univalve Shells , small spines and numerous plates of an Echinoderm , and some Forainimfera : Trilocetlinca Brongnictiartiana , D'Orb .
( figs. 44 , 45 ) , Robulina ]D'Orbiqnii , Bailey ( figs. 9 , 10 , rather common ) , and several specimens of a minute species of Rotalina ( 1 ) ; also Diatonmacew .
G. No. 31 .
Lat. 39§ 20 ' 38 " , long .
72§ 44 ' 35 " : 50 fathoms .
Fine-grained greyish sand with much mud .
A considerable number of Foraminifera , 'including Marginulina Baczei , Bailey ( rather common ) , Robitlina D'Orbignii , Bailey ( figs. 9 , 10 ) , and Globigerina rubrca , D'Orb .
( common ; but not so common as in F. No. 25 ) ; also ]Diatomacece and some Sponge-spicules .
G. No. 8 .
Lat. 39§ 31 ' , long .
72§ 11 ' 20 " : 89 fathoms .
Sand , coarser than the last , not so muddy , and about the same colour .
Abounding in Textzilaria Atlantica , Bailey ( figs. 38-43 ) , and in Gloiygeriiue ( figs. 20-24 , GI .
injfata and Gi .
bulloides ) , and also containing JiMarginulinac Bachei , Bailey , Robulina Df'Orbigntii Bailey , and Orbitlina tuniversa , D'Orb .
, together with a few Diatomacece and Sponge-spicules .
H. No. 2 .
South-east from Cape Henlopen ; lat. 380 46 ' 40 " , long .
75 ?
00 ' 30 " : 10 fathoms .
Fine sand , slightly muddy .
One specimen of Triloculina and a few minute nautiloid Foramninifera ; together with a great variety of Diatomacecw , some Sponge-spicules , and a few small spines of an Echinoderm .
H. No. 17 .
Lat. 38§ 29 ' 56 " , long .
74§ 38 ' 4 " : 20 fathoms .
Clean quartzose sand , coarser than the last , white and yellow , with black specks .
Many Diatomacee , but no evidences of Foramizninfra except their soft parts , retaining the form of the chambers .
H. No. 67 .
Lat. 38§ 9 ' 25 " , long .
74§ 4 ' 5 " : 50 fathoms .
Clean greyish sand , containing a few minute Globigerince and ]otalince ; also JDiatomacece .
H. No. 1 .
Lat. 38§ 4 ' 40 ' , long .
73§ 56 ' 47 " : 90 fathoms .
A rather coarse grey sand , with some mud , containing a few Diatomacece and a vast number of Foraminifera , " particularly Globigerina , many thousands of which must exist in every inch of the seabottom at this locality .
" The following were also common here:-Orbulina universa , D'Orb .
( fig. 1 ) , Maryinulina Bachei , Bailey ( figs. 2-6 ) , Rohulina ]D'Orbignii , Bailey ( figs. 9 , 10 ) , Rotalina Ehrenbergii , Bailey ( figs. 11-13 ) .
Professor BAILEY described and figured nearly , if not quite , all the different forms of Foraminifera that he met with in his examination of these soundings , also some of the Diatoms and Sponge-spicules , as well as some minute spherical calcareous bodies , occurring either singly or united in strings and bunches ( transparent when mounted in balsam ) , which he thought might possibly be ova of Foraminifera , but which we believe to be little inorganic crystalline globules of calcite , common in many sea-beds .
The calcareous granules he found abundantly at 90 fathoms , and at 105 , 89 , and 20 fathoms .
424 The allusions to the Foraminifera in the Soundings " E. No. 37 , " " H. No. 2 , " and " H. No. 67 , " are not precise enough for the determination of the species found therein ; and even with the notes appended to the account of the Species , we cannot inake a very exact table of the distribution .
In Professor BAILEY'S plate illustrating his memoir , we have 1 .
Orbzlina tuniversa , D'Orb .
, fig. 1 .
2 .
Nodoscaria , a fragment , fig. 8 .
With almost cylindrical chambers .
as in some subvarieties of N. Pyrzla , D'Orb .
Several fragments in the deeper soundings are said to have occurred .
3 .
Dentalina mntatbilis , Bailey , fig. 7 .
This fragment might well belong to such a subvariety of Dentalina commnnis as D. pauzperata , D'Orb .
Several fragments were found in " H. No. 1 .
" 4 .
Mfarginulina cBachei , Bailey , figs. 2-6 .
Figs. 2-4 are the same as 11 .
sintilis , D'Orb .
, and M. pedeum , D'Orb .
, all of these being dimorphous or Marginuline modifications of Nodosarica Radicula , Linn. , sp. ; and figs. 5 , 6 represent a larger individual of the same form , such as has been named Maryinulina reguclaris by D'ORBIGNY in his 'Foram .
Foss .
Bassin Vienne , ' where the others are figured .
5 .
Robulina D'Orbignii , Bailey , figs. 9 , 10 .
This is the common Cristellaria cultrata , Montfort , sp. The figured specimen has its last few chambers keelless , and trying , as it were , to leave the discoidal plan of growth , each having its septal aperture almost free .
This is said to accompany the foregoing , which was in considerable numbers in all except the shallow soundings .
6 .
Rotalina Ehrenbergii , Bailey , figs. 11-13 .
This is Planorbtdina Haidingerii , D'Orb .
, sp. ( a variety of PI .
fcarta , Fichtel and Moll , sp. ) , and occurred in " F. No. 25 " and in several of the deeper soundings .
Professor BAILEY thought it to be near Rotalia Soldaizii , D'Orb .
; and in truth PI .
Haidingerii does resemble that form , -but as an isomorph , not as a relative : so also it is an isomorph of Puzlvinulina truncatulinoides , D'Orb .
7 .
Rotalina ctltrata .
, D'Orb .
, figs. 14-16 .
This is the common Pulvinulina lzenardii , D'Orb .
, a variety of P. repanda , Fichtel and Moll , sp. Referred to as common in the deeper soundings .
8 .
Rotalina semipunctata , Bailey , figs. 17-19 .
The same as Plccnorbulina Ungeriana , D'Orb .
, sp. ( Pl.farcta , var .
) .
9 .
Globigerina rubra , D'Orb .
, figs. 20-24 .
Professor BAILEY rightly considered figs. 20-22 to represent a separate form ; it is GI .
iznfata , D'Orb .
, a variety of Gi .
6ulloides , D'Orb .
, to which all must be referred specifically , D'ORBIGNY'S GI .
rubra being so named on account of the ruddiness of its shell , which is not dependent on the sarcode for its pink colour .
Gi .
inflata is specially noticed as occurring at 105 fathoms .
Vast numbers of Glo6igerince occurred in the deeper soundings , especially the deepest ; whilst they were but few and small at 49 fathoms .
" The abundance in which the species of Globigerina occur in the deep soundings G. No. 31 and H. No. 1 gives to these green muds a most striking resemblance to the green Tertiary marls perforated by the artesian wells at Charleston , S. C. This similarity appears to indicate that the Charleston beds were a deep-sea deposit , perhaps made under the influence of an ancient Gulf-stream " ( p. 11 ) .
10 .
Bulimina auriculata , Bailey , figs. 25-27 .
This is B. Pyrula , D'Orb .
Several found at 51 fathoms .
11 .
BuRlimina tuzrgida , Bailey , figs. 28-31 .
A slight modification of B. Pyrula , D'Orb .
, the newer chambers being proportionally large and overlapping .
It occurred with the foregoing , and at 49 fathoms .
12 .
Bulimina serrata , Bailey , figs. 32-34 .
The very small Buliminna ( Viryttlina ) Schreibersii , Czjzek .
13 .
Bulimina compressa , Bailey , figs. 35-37 .
The same as B. ( Virgtlina ) squamosa , D'Orb .
14 .
Textularia Atlantica , Bailey , figs. 38-43 .
This is the Textulariac ( Verneuilina ) triquetra , Miinster ( Verneuilina tricarinata , D'Orb .
) .
Found by Professor BAILEY only in the deeper soundings ; especially abundant at 89 fathoms ( " G. No. 38 " ) .
( Judging from our own specimens , we think that in these figured specimens the aperture of the shell is drawn too smoothly .
) 15 .
Triloczlina Brongniartii , D'Orb .
, figs. 44 , 45 .
16 .
Quinueloculina occidentalis , Bailey , figs. 46-48 .
This fair typical form of Miliola ( Quintqueloczlita ) Seminuutm , Linn. , sp. , is said by Professor BAILEY to occur " not uncommonly in the sands along the western shores of the Atlantic , " -as indeed it does along many coasts .
In presenting the annexed bathymetrical Table ( No. VIII .
) of Professor BAILEY'S Foraminifera , we must express a hope that some day a fuller Synopsis of this marginal Fauna of the " Virginian Province " will be produced by the Transatlantic naturalists from more ample naterials than Professor BAILEY had to work on ; for we cannot think that this Fauna is filly represented by the present list .
426 III.--Fthrtler -esearches by Professor J. W. BAILEY .
" Examination of Deep Soundings from the Atlantic Ocean .
" By Professor J. W. BAILEY , of West Point , New York , " American Journal of Science and Arts , 2 ser. vol. xvii .
p. 176 , &amp;c. 1854 .
In this memoir Professor BAILEY describes the results of his examination of five deepsea soundings , from the Atlantic , given him by Lieut. MAITuY , and of one sounding , of less depth , made by Lieut. BERRYMAN .
I. Lieutenant MAUEY'S Soundings .
Fathoms .
Lat. 420 04 ' 1 .
1800 Long. 29 00'N .
of the Azores .
( v*W C " Lusitanian Province .
" Lat. 44§ 41 } 2 .
1360Lt 24 .
35 4'N.E .
of the Azores .
( Long. 240 35'j ) ( Lat. 49§ 56 ' 30 " ) 3 .
1580Lat 49 56 30 .
of Irelad .
1 Long. 13§ 13 ' 45 " .
ofIreland .
JLat .
470 38Q 4 .
1800L .
09 ?
08'}Off the mouth of English Channel .
" Celtic Province .
" Lat. 54§ 17 ' 5 .
2000 Long. 22 33S ' } of Ireland .
Long. 22 ' 33'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ These soundings contained no gravel , sand , or other recognizable inorganic mineral matter , but consisted of Foramcziifera and calcareous mud derived from their disintegrated shells .
Globigerince greatly predominated ; and Orbttlinw were in immense numbers in some , especially in the sounding from 1800 fathoms .
They all contained Diatomacewe , Sponge-spicules , and PolycystincM .
Professor BAILEY remarked that Agathistegia ( Miliola , &amp;c. ) were absent , as well as Marygintlinc , Textulamria , and other forms that he had met with in shallower soundings .
II .
Lieutenant BERRYMAN'S Sounding .
Fathoms .
L 42 53 ' 30 " N S.S.E. of Newfoundland .
On northern border of the e Lat. 42 175 .
Long.50 0 45W .
irginian Province " ( the western extension of the |Long .
50 ?
05 ' 45 " W ... , Celtic Province " ) .
The sea-bed off Newfoundland is here destitute of Foraminifera as far as this sounding shows ; the quartzose sand , with a few grains of hornblende , being barren of shells or other organic remains .
Professor BAILEY'S results in these examinations are therefore very similar to those obtained by ourselves from similar parts of the Atlantic bed .
428 IV.-Researches on the Nort]h Atlantic Poramninifera , by F. L. POURTALES , Esq. " Examination ( by F. L. POURTALES , Esq. , Assistant in the United States Coast-survey ) of Specimens of Bottom obtained in the Exploration of the Gulf-stream , by Lieutenants Commanding , T. A. M. CRAVEN and J. N. MAFFITT , United States Navy , " Report of the Superintendent of the United States Coast-survey for 1853 ; Appendix , No. 30 , pages 82* , 83* , 1854 .
From fourteen soundings off the eastern coast of Florida , and three off Georgia ( all belonging to the " Caribbeean Province " ) , Count F. POURTALES obtained results similar in a great degree to those of Professor BAILEY'S examination of the soundings off New Jersey and Delaware ( see above , page 423 ) ; and having soundings from much greater depths ( 150 to 1050 fathoms ) , he met with a greater predominance of Globiygerince , forming , with other Foraminifera , the white mud of the sea-bed ; in one instance Globigerince and the minute green stony casts of these shells entirely formed the bedt ( at 150 fathoms , lat. 31§ 2 ' , long .
79§ 35 ' ) .
At 1050 fathoms ( lat. 28§ 24 ' , long .
79§ 13 ' ) he found Globigerina and Orbulina , and the so-called Rotalina cultrata , R. Ehrenbergii , and R. Bayleyi , with fragments of Molluscan Shells , of Corals , and of Anatifer , as well as some Pteropoda ; and only about 1 or 2 per cent. of fine sand in the Foraminiferal mud .
As these soundings are beyond the limits of the " Provinces " that we have to do with in the foregoing memoir , we omit the details of the other specimens of the " Caribbaean " sea-bed ; but we remark that the author of this notice refers to former Reports ( and Proc. Amer .
Assoc. Charleston ) in which he had intimated that " with the increase in depth-in the greater depths the number of individuals [ of Foraminifera , especially Globiyerina ] appeared to increase , " having then seen a sounding from 267 fathoms where the sand contained 50 per cent. of Foraininifera ; whilst now he found at upwards of 1000 fathoms Foraminifera with little or no sand .
The extension of life to greater depths than 300 fathoms ( E. FORBES , lEgean , Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1843 ) is also noticed by the author ; but his suggestion , that Globigerina would be found to decrease gradually " for a considerable depth before it should cease to appear , " does not appear to be as yet substantiated , since Globigerina holds its own at the greatest depth ( 2700 fathoms , South Atlantic ) hitherto experimented upon .
He remarks that the Foraminifera appear to be fresh in the deep-sea soundings , and probably live at the great depths from which they are brought up .
Note.-MAURY has already observed that the bed of the Atlantic at more than two miles depth has no sand nor gravel , but consists chiefly of Foraminifera and a small number of Diatomacece ( siliceous).- " Sailing Directions , " &amp;c. , 6th edit .
1864 .
t To this Professor BAILEY refers in his interesting paper " On the Origin of Greensand and its formation in the Oceans of the present Epoch , " Quart .
Journ. Microscop .
Science , vol. v. pp. 83-87 ; 1857 .
V.-The Foraminifera of the " Celtic and Virginian " Provinces of the North Atlantic , as a Fautna .
The accompanying Table ( No. IX .
) , already alluded to at p. 332 , gives us a synoptical view of the Foraminifera of the " Celtic Province , " including its western or " Virginian " portion .
Excepting that further research will enrich the " Virginian " columns ( Coralline and Coral zones of the American side of the Province ) , the Table comprises a complete Foraminiferal Fauna ; and we believe that , by careful condensation of the multitudinous varietal forms under specific heads , we have fairly indicated the range and relative abundance of the members of a natural-history-group under such local conditions as naturalists have determined , chiefly by the aid of Mollusca and other marine animals , to belong to a more or less uniform zoological area .
Professor WILLIA ISON'S 'Monograph of the British Recent Foraminifera ' has ( with corrections of nomenclature ) supplied the first column , for the Littoral , Laminarian , Coralline , and Coral zones ; Mr. H. B. BRADY'S researches in the Shetland and other British Foraminifera give us the second column ; the next four columns refer to the different parts of the North Atlantic from whence we have many of the Foraminifera described in this memoir ; and the last two columns comprise what we know of the " Virginian " Foraminifera , to which the Appendices Nos. II .
, III .
, &amp; IV .
have reference .
430

