1893 .
] Absolute Thermal Conductivities of Copper and Iron .
151 temperature .
These observations confirmed the rectilinear relation with the first three ; but in the case of the two alcohols , evidence was obtained of molecular association , as also with acetic acid .
It is possible to calculate the amount of association at any temperature in such cases .
For , assuming the constancy of k for the molecular surface of the " normal " liquids , the equation Kjd = 35* , where d is the differential coefficient of an associating liquid , and 35 is the molecular aggregation , gives the number of simple molecules which have united to form a compound at the temperature chosen .
For the alcohols at \#151 ; 90 ' , and for acetic acid at 20 ' , the association of molecules approximates to ( C2H402)4 , ( CHtO)* , and ( C2H60)4 , We have thus a method by which it is possible to ascertain the molecular complexity of undiluted liquids .
The results with the alcohols are shown to agree within reasonable limits with those obtained from strong solutions by Raoult 's method .
It is incidentally shown in the course of the paper that there is no angle of contact between liquid and glass , when the liquid surface is in contact only with its own vapour .
Ordinary measurements of capillarity give inconstant , and probably inaccurate , results , for it is not the surface tension of the liquid which is measured , but that of a solution of air in the surface film of the liquid .
The paper contains tables and curves exemplifying and illustrating the statements given .
IV .
" The Absolute Thermal Conductivities of Copper and Iron .
" By R. Wallace Stewart , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator in Physics , University College , Bangor .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , P.R.S. Received March 2 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments described in the paper were undertaken with the object of determining the theoretical conductivity at different temperatures of iron , and , in particular , of pure electrolytically deposited copper .
The method adopted was that due to Forbes , with two modifications .
( a. ) The thermo-electric method of determining temperature was employed .
The thermo-electric couple used was one of German silver and iron , giving , between 0 ' C. and 200 ' C. , a uniform deflection on the galvanometer scale of about four divisions for a difference of one degree centigrade between the temperatures of its junctions .
I hernial Conductivities of Copper and Iron .
[ Mar. 23 , ( 5 .
) The bar was protected from currents of air and external radiation by surrounding it by a trough of sheet zinc .
The range of temperature over which the observations extended was from 15 ' 0 .
to about 220 ' 0 .
The iron bar used was a square f-inch bar of ordinary wrought iron ; the copper bar was a round J-inch bar of pure electrolytic copper .
The reduction of the data of experiment was effected by the aid of curves drawn to a scale sufficiently large to secure the necessary accuracy .
In the case of the copper bar two distinct determinations , I and II , were made under different conditions , and the observations reduced separately .
The results of these two determinations agreed within rather less than 1^ per cent. In order to reduce diffusivity to absolute conductivity , the densities of the iron and copper were determined hydrostatically , and the variation of the specific heat of iron with the temperature was determined by Bunsen 's calorimeter with the result that the specific heat at t ' C. was found to be given by\#151 ; St = O'1095(1 + 0'000081 ) , For the specific heat of copper the result given by Bede ( $t = 0-0892+0-0000651 ) was taken .
The final results obtained are indicated by the formulae given below , and tend to show that for both copper and iron the conductivity decreases with rise of temperature .
Results for Iron in C.G.S. Units .
Diffusivity , k , at t ' C. is given by\#151 ; ** = 0-208(1-0-00175 0 , and the absolute thermal conductivity , by\#151 ; kt-0T72 ( 1-0-00110Results for Copper in C.O.S. Units .
Diffusivity , * , at t ' C. is given by\#151 ; I. Kt = 1-370 ( 1\#151 ; 0-00125 0-II .
Kt = 1-391 ( 1-0-00120 0The mean of these results is taken as\#151 ; Kt = 1-38 ( 1-0-0012 0 , and the value of the absolute conductivity , k , is then given by\#151 ; kt = 1-10 ( 1\#151 ; 0-00053 01893 .
] Arrow-Poison of the Wa and other Tribes .
153 As the experimental observations supply data for the calculation of the emissive power of the surfaces of the bars at different temperatures , a table is given at the end of the paper showing the emissive power of the surface of each bar at temperatures between 20 ' 0 .
and 200 ' C. The values obtained agree fairly with those given by Mac-farlane and Tait for somewhat similar surfaces .
V. " Preliminary Notice on the Arrow-Poison of the Wa Nyika and other Tribes of East Equatorial Africa , with special reference to the Chemical Properties and Pharmacological Action of the Wood from which it is prepared .
" By Thomas R. Fraser , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Edinburgh , and Joseph Tillie , M.D. ( Edin .
) .
Received March 6 , 1893 .
Burton , * Cameron , f and other travellers have given accounts of much interest of an arrow-poison used in warfare and in the chase by the Wa Nyika , Wa Kamba , Wa Gyriama , and other tribes of Eastern Equatorial Africa .
The poison was stated to be prepared from the wood of the stem and root of a tree , which , however , was not botanically identified .
Several years ago , an opportunity was given to one of us to examine poisoned arrows , and the poison used in smearing them , of the Wa Nyika tribe .
While the pharmacological action of this poison was found to have a close resemblance to that of Strophanthus seeds , its physical and chemical properties enabled the conclusions to be drawn that the poison was not made from these seeds , but was chiefly composed of an extract prepared from a wood.f These conclusions have been confirmed by the examination of further specimens of the Wa Nyika arrow-poison , and of the wood from which it is prepared .
The specimens were most kindly sent to one of us , at various times between 1889 and 1892 , by the Rev. William Morris , of the Church Missionary Society 's East African Mission , and by Mr. Berkeley , the Administrator to the Imperial British East Africa Company at Mombasa .
These gentlemen have also sent the leaves and fruit of the plant , which have enabled us to identify it as an but , as flowers have not yet been obtained , it has not been possible to determine the species .
* ' The Lake Regions of Central Africa , ' 1860 , vol. 2 , p. 305 .
t * Across Africa , ' 1885 , p. 59 . .
t Eraser , " On Strophanthus Mspidus : its Natural History , Chemistry , and Pharmacology , " * Edinburgh Roy .
Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 35 , Part IV , 1890 , pp. 966-67 .

