1874 .
] On Magnets and Electric Conductors .
quently hollowed by an extension into them of the cavity of the cell or capillary , the partition between the two being finally absorbed .
The best preparations for demonstrating the facts above described are obtained from the subcutaneous tissue of the upper part of the fore limb , and from that under the skin of the back\#151 ; regions in which , in the adult rat , this tissue becomes almost entirely converted into fat .
Even in the new-born animal some portions have already undergone this change ; and it is principally in the neighbourhood of such patches that the luema-poietic cells are met with .
It is only when the young rats are not more than a few days old that the formation of blood-vessels is preceded by a development of blood-corpuscles within the same cells as form the vessels : in such other animals as I have hitherto examined this phenomenon seems to occur only whilst still in the foetal state .
The immature condition in which the young of the rat are brought forth is sufficient to account for this difference .
The observations here recorded as to the intracellular development of blood-corpuscles are in many respects in accordance with what has already been described by others as occurring in the area and other parts of the embryo chick .
It has not , however , appeared desirable to enter into the literature of the subject in this brief notice .
III .
\lt ; c On the Attractions of Magnets and Electric Conductors/ * By George Gore , F.R.S. Received January 27 , 1874 .
Being desirous of ascertaining whether , in the case of two parallel wires conveying electric currents , the attractions and repulsions were between the currents themselves or the substances conveying them , and believing this question had not been previously settled , I made the following experiment:\#151 ; I passed a powerful voltaic current through the thick copper wire of a large electromagnet , and then divided it equally between two vertical pieces of thin platinum wire of equal diameter and length ( about six or seven centimetres ) , so as to make them equally white-hot , the two wires being attached to two horizontal cross wires of copper .
On approaching the two vertical wires symmetrically towards the vertical face of one pole of the horizontally placed magnet , and at equal distances from it , so that the two downward currents in them might be equally acted upon by the downward and upward portions respectively of the currents which circulated round the magnet-pole , the one was strongly bent towards and the other from the pole , as was , of course , expected ; 'but not the least sign of alteration of relative temperature of the two wires could be perceived , thereby proving that not even a small proportion of the current was repulsed from the repelled wire or drawn into the attracted one , as would have occurred had the attraction and repulsion taken place , even to a moderate degree , between the currents 246 On Magnets and Electric Conductors .
[ Mar. 19 , themselves ; and 1 therefore conclude that the attractions and repulsions of electric conductors are not exerted between the currents , but between the substances conveying them .
Some important consequences appear to flow from this conclusion , especially -when it is considered in connexion with Ampere 's theory of magnetism , and with the molecular changes produced in bodies generally by electric currents and by magnetism .
As every molecular disturbance produces an electric alteration in bodies , so , conversely , the discoveries of numerous investigators have shown that every electric current passing near or through a substance produces a molecular change , which is rendered manifest in all metals , liquid conductors , and even in the voltaic arc by the development of sounds , especially if the substances are under the influence of two currents at right angles to each other .
In iron it is conspicuously shown also by electrotorsion , a phenomenon I have found and recently made known in a paper read before the Royal Society .
Numerous facts also support the conclusion that the molecular changes referred to last as long as the current .
De la Rive has shown that a rod of iron , either transmitting or encircled by an electric current , emits , as long as the current lasts , a different sound when struck ; and we know it also exhibits magnetism .
The peculiar optical properties of glass and other bodies with regard to polarized light discovered by Faraday also continue as long as the current .
A rod of iron also remains twisted as long as it transmits and is encircled by electric currents ; and in steel and iron the molecular change ( like magnetism ) partly remains after the currents cease , and enables the bar to remain twisted .
That the peculiar molecular structure produced in bodies generally by the action of electric currents also possesses a definite direction with regard to that of the current , is shown by the rigidly definite direction of action of magnetized glass and many other transparent bodies upon polarized light , also by the difference of conductivity for heat and for electricity in a plate of iron parallel or transverse to electric currents , by the stratified character of electric discharges in rarefied gases and the action of electric currents upon it , and'especially by the phenomena of electro-torsion .
In the latest example an upward current produces a reverse direction of twist to a downward one , and a right-handed current develops an opposite torsion to a left-handed one ; and the two latter are each internally different from the former .
As each of these four torsions is an outward manifestation of the collective result of internal molecular disturbance and possesses different properties , these four cases prove the existence of four distinct molecular movements and four corresponding directions of structure ; and the phenomena altogether are of the most rigidly definite character .
As an electric current imparts a definite direction of molecular structure to bodies , and as the attractions and repulsions of electric wires are 1874 .
] Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun .
between the wires themselves and not between the currents , repulsion instead of attraction must be due to difference of direction of structure produced by difference of direction of the currents .
Although the Amperean theory has rendered immense service to magnetic science , and agrees admirably with all the phenomena of electromagnetic attraction , repulsion , and motion , it is in some respects defective ; it assumes that magnetism is due to innumerable little electric currents continually circulating in one uniform direction round the molecules of the iron ; but there is no known instance of electric currents being maintained without the consumption of power , and in magnets there is no source of power ; electric currents also generate heat , but a magnet is not a heated body .
If , however , we substitute the view that the phenomena of attraction and repulsion of magnets are due , not to continuously circulating electric currents , but ( as in electric wires ) to definite directions of molecular structure , such as is shown by the phenomena of electro-torsion to really exist in them , the theory becomes more perfect .
It would also agree with the fact that iron and steel have the power of retaining both magnetism and the electro-torsional state after the currents or other causes producing them have ceased .
According so this view , a magnet , like a spring , is not a source of power , but only an arrangement for storing it up , the power being retained by some internal disposition of its particles acting like a " ratchet " and termed " coercive power .
' The fact that a magnet becomes warm when its variations of magnetism are great and rapidly repeated , does not contradict this view , because we know it has then , like any other conductor of electricity , electric currents induced in it , and these develop heat by conduction-resistance .
According also to this view , any method which will produce the requisite direction of structure in a body will impart to it the capacity of being acted upon by a magnet ; and any substance , ferruginous or not , which possesses that structure has that capacity ; and , in accordance with this , we find that a crystal of cyanite ( a silicate of alumina ) possesses the property , whilst freely suspended , of pointing north and south by the directive influence of terrestrial magnetism , and one of stannite ( oxide of tin ) points east and west under the same conditions .
IY .
" Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. , and Gr .
M. Seabroke , F.R.A.S. Received February 2 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) This paper consisted of the observations made of the sun 's chromosphere and of the prominences for the period 1st September , 1872 , to 31st December , 1873 .
Details are given of the modes of observation adopted .

