The Spectrum of Comet .
are not sufficient to express all the facts , but it seems that the term involving \lt ; r must at least be taken into account in a complete theory .
4 .
It is shown that it is possible to include , either wholly or in part , the dispersion of artificial or natural double refraction in simple cases .
5 .
By assigning a standard state for the medium , gas at 0 ' and 760 mm. , for which a is zero , numerical values of a are obtained for various substances in different states .
Anomalies in molecular refractivity are ascribed , in part , to the variations in a. 6 .
Using a type of dispersion formula involving and a , it is shown that the positions of the absorption maxima depend upon these quantities as well as upon the frequencies of the natural vibrations of the molecule .
The consequent displacement of the maxima for varying conditions of pressure temperature , and density are illustrated by analysing certain experimental data .
The Spectrum of Comet .
By Charles P. Butler , A.R.C Sc. , F.R.P.S. , F.R.A.S. ( Communicated by Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received November 5 , \#151 ; Read November 24 , 1910 .
) [ Plate 7 .
] Owing to the interference of high buildings it was impossible to arrange for observations of the comet spectrum during May from the Solar Physics Observatory at South Kensington .
Sir Norman Lockyer therefore obtained permission to occupy the site on Fosterdown Fort , Caterham , which has already been selected as the future position of the Observatory .
No observations of value were possible during the first three weeks of May on account of exceptionally bad weather ; but on May 23 and 26 photographs and visual observations of the spectrum were secured .
The spectrum was seen as a small nebulous cloud about 3 ' to 5 ' in diameter ; with a binocular the central brightening due to the intense stellar nucleus became clearly visible .
As a whole the comet was about as conspicuous as a second magnitude star , so that it was much fainter than had been expected .
The curvature of the head was not so sharp as that seen in Comet 1910 a , giving the appearance of an elongated arc perpendicular to the tail extension when seen with moderate power .
Photographs of the comet were obtained with a Dallmeyer camera of Mr. C. P. Butler .
[ Nov. 5 , 6 inches aperture and 5 feet focal length .
The spectra were obtained with an ultra-violet spectrograph having a quartz lens of 2 inches aperture and 18 inches focal length , with an Iceland-spar prism of about 30 ' angle adjusted to avoid double refraction .
Although it was not possible to give sufficient exposure to record the tail extensions , the photographs of the nucleus and coma present several interesting features which assume importance when considered in relation to similar observations recorded elsewhere .
The chief of these is the intermittent occurrence of a secondary condensation some distance from the principal nucleus .
A photograph exposed on May 23 from 9.20 to 9.50 p.m , shows no appreciable trace of duplicity in the nuclear matter , while on a photograph exposed on May 26 from 9.40 to 10.10 p.m. there is a very distinct secondary condensation well separated from the principal nucleus , in position angle 270 ' and about 65 " distant ( Plate 7 , figs. 1 and 2 ) .
Similar appearances are described in the reports from other observers.* The colour of the head was pale lilac , being very similar to that of a vacuum-tube discharge in carbon compounds under feeble excitation without capacity .
The tail was double and practically straight as far as it could be followed .
On May 26 it was traced for about 8 ' to 10 ' from the head towards the south-east .
The spectrum was observed visually on May 22 , 23 , and 26 with a direct-vision spectroscope .
No appreciable differences in the relative intensities or positions of the bands were perceptible for this interval of three days .
The nucleus showed a very strong continuous spectrum intensified by three bands in the yellow-green , green , and greenish-blue regions , presumably the usual cometary bands at XX 5635 ( int .
7 ) , 5165 ( int .
10 ) , and 4737 ( int .
7 ) .
Other intensifications of the continuous spectrum of the nucleus were suspected , but their positions could not be estimated with sufficient accuracy for record ( fig. 3 ) .
The spectrum of the coma surrounding the nucleus was seen to consist of these same three bands , extending the whole length of the slit .
Careful examination failed to detect any continuous radiation in the coma spectrum .
The spectrum of the tail could not be observed under the working conditions .
It is to be noted that the general appearance of the spectrum was somewhat different from that seen in the ordinary fluted spectrum of carbon compounds .
The maximum intensity appeared to be more nearly at the * ' Astronomische Nachrichten , ' vol. 185 , No. 4420 , June 17 , 1910 ; 'Comptea Rendus , ' vol. 150 , pp. 1496 , 1659 , June , 1910 .
Butler .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , A. 84 , 7 .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
1910 , May , 23 d. 9li .
20 m. to 9h .
50 m. 1910 , May , 26 d. 9li .
40 m. to 10h .
10 m. ( Photographs of the Nucleus of Halley 's Comet .
) Fig. 3.\#151 ; Visual Observations of Spectrum , May 22 , 23 , 26 .
HMHsHe Hs a Lyne .
Comet spectrum enlarged vertically .
Comet spectrum .
3884 4050( ?
) 4737 5165 5635 Fig. 4.\#151 ; Photograph of Comet Spectrum , with a Lyme comparison .
( Quartz-calcite Spectrograph , 2-inch aperture , 18-inch focu3 .
) 1910 .
] The Spectrum of Halley s Comet .
centre of each band , being somewhat similar to that seen in spectra under medium pressures rather than to the more complicated fluted structure under low pressure with electrical excitation .
This appears to be borne out by the photographic spectra , where the maxima seem to be practically images of the nucleus and surrounding nebulosity of the coma .
This appearance , however , may also be explained as being the integration of the brightest terminal components of the usual flutings by the objective prism spectrograph .
The weather conditions being so unfavourable it was only possible to obtain a photographic record of the brightest features of the spectrum of the nucleus .
The three chief bands recorded visually are of course rendered of quite different relative intensities on the photographs , the least sensitive region of even the best isochromatic plates being the green .
The photographic spectrum shows two very conspicuous bright bands , about wave-lengths 4737 ( int .
10 ) and 3884 ( int .
6 ) .
with several other fainter bands at XX 4050 , 4360 , 5165 , and 5635 .
Their relative intensities will be best understood from tl le accompanying reproduction of the spectrum obtained on May 26 ( fig. 4 ) .
In enlarging the comet spectrum in one direction only , to provide a spectrum of sufficient width for reproduction , it is practically impossible to avoid introducing artificial lines due to the grain and minor imperfections of the plate .
The bands noted as cometary bands , however , have all been found from the original negative , and are equally well shown on several enlargements .
A small strip of the spectrum without vertical enlargement is given below for comparison ( fig. 4 ) .
In view of the fact that other photographs of the comet spectrum obtained elsewhere at a different time show important differences of intensity to those photographed at Fosterdown , it is of interest to inquire whether such differences are ' physical and indicative of real changes in the cometary radiation , or whether they may be due to atmospheric absorption ( as has already been suggested by Deslandres ) or optical differences between the instruments and photographic plates employed .
One of the chief differences noted is the relative inversion of intensity in the lines near XX 4737 and 3884 , as shown on photographs obtained in India on May 1 , 3 , 13 , and at Fosterdown on May 26 .
The photographs at Fosterdown being taken with an instrument having a quartz-calcite optical train , consisting of a 2-inch quartz lens and Iceland-spar prism , specially adapted for recording radiations of short wave-length , these differences cannot be ascribed to instrumental absorption in the ultra-violet region .
Owing to the close proximity of the comet to the earth during the period Mr. F. W. Aston .
Distribution of [ Nov. 22 , about the time of transit , the aspect of the head and nucleus of the comet was rapidly changing from day to day .
Before the transit the part of the head facing the sun was principally visible ; near the transit another part of the comet 's head was visible from the earth ; while after transit the hotter side of the coma would again gradually come into view .
It is quite conceivable that this presentation of such different portions of the comet might exhibit notable differences of spectrum .
From a series of preliminary experiments it has been found that very remarkable changes of intensity of these carbon bands may be brought about by simple variations of the conditions of volatilisation ; so much so , that this would probably serve as the more satisfactory reason for differences between various photographs of the comet 's spectrum , provided , of course , that any known instrumental or atmospheric differences are duly considered .
I am indebted to Mr. J. P. H. Wilkie , photographer to the Observatory , for help in the preparation of the illustrations to this report .
The Distribution of Electric Force in the Crookes Dark Space .
By F. W. Aston , B.Sc. , A.I.C. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S.\#151 ; Received November 22 , 1910 , \#151 ; Read January 12 , 1911 .
) Introductory .
The electric force in the Crookes dark space and the negative glow has been the subject of a considerable number of investigations .
The first determination was made by Schuster , * whose results indicate the presence of a positive charge of electricity , whose density decreases in geometrical progression as the distance from the cathode increases in arithmetical progression .
Grahamj* found a curious drop in potential near the cathode , but Wehnaltt , repeating these experiments , was unable to find this drop of potential , and ascribes it to the fact that the exploring points were not in the direct line of the current .
SkinnerS came to the conclusion that all the fall of potential occurs at the surface of the cathode .
Recently , Westphal|| has made a careful series of observations with cathodes of different metals * ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1890 , vol. 47 , p. 526 .
t ' Wied .
Ann. , ' 1898 , vol. 64 , p. 49 .
% 1 Ann. d. Phys. , ' 1903 , ( 4 ) , vol. 10 , p. 542 .
S ' Phil. Mag , ' 1902 , 6 , vol. 2 , p. 616 .
|| 'Verhand .
d. Deutsch .
Phys. Ges .
, ' 1910 , vol. 12 .

