On the Formation of Solids at Low Temperatures .
181 " Note on the Formation of Solids at Low Temperatures , particularly with Regard to Solid Hydrogen .
" By Morris W. Travers , D.Sc .
, Professor of Chemistry at University College , Bristol .
Communicated by Sir W. Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received February 4 , \#151 ; Read February 18th , 1904 .
In the year 1902 Dr. Jaquerod and I carried out some experiments on liquid and solid hydrogen with a view to determining its vapour pressure on the scales of the constant-volume helium and hydrogen thermometers .
We found that hydrogen remained liquid down to 14'-2 ( He scale ) , the lowest temperature to which we could reduce a large mass of the liquid by means of the pump at our disposal .
When , however , a small quantity of liquid hydrogen , cooled to 14'-2 in a glass tube immersed in the liquid contained in the large vacuum vessel , was allowed to evaporate under reduced pressure , it solidified when the pressure fell to 49 or 50 mm. of mercury .
This pressure corresponds to a temperature of 14'-1 on the helium scale .
The presence of the solid was determined by mechanical means , and it was not possible to observe its appearance.* Dewar gives the melting point of hydrogen at about 15 ' absolute , and the melting pressure at 55 mm. of mercury .
He describes its appearance as that of " frozen foam , " or as " clear transparent ice."f It appeared to me worth while to carry out a few experiments to try to determine whether solid hydrogen formed definite crystal , or indeed wrhether the glassy substance was a true solid or merely a highly viscous fluid .
My meaning will become clearer if I give an instance in which both such changes occur .
If an organic liquid , such as ethyl aceto-acetate , is cooled slowly to the temperature of liquid air , it is converted into crystalline solid , the formation of the crystals commencing when the liquid is cooled to about - 150 ' C. , usually at several points on the side of the vessel , and spreading rapidly throughout the mass .
If , on the other hand , the liquid is cooled very rapidly , a hard glassy substance is formed , and though crystals may begin to appear , they will only do so locally , as the velocity of crystallisation decreases rapidly as the viscosity of the liquid increases .
The glassy substance is really a liquid of high viscosity ; it is formed with perfect continuity from the normal liquid state , and should differ from the solid ( crystalline ) form in its physical properties .
Such a substance might , for convenience , be called a pseudo-solid .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 200 , p. 170 .
t British Association , Presidential Address , 1902 .
See also paper on " Solid Hydrogen , " ' Brit. Assoc. Report , ' 1899 , reprinted in'Nature ' ; also ' Roy .
Inst. Proc. , ' 1900 .
VOL. LXXIII .
O 182 On the LOTmation of Solids at Low Temperatures .
[ Feb. 4 i\lt ; In investigating solid hydrogen the apparatus shown in the accon panying figure was employed .
The liquid hydrogen was introduce i into a small clear-glass vacuum-vessel 15 cm .
long and 4 cm .
j fJ 'This vessel was placed inside a glass tube BI which communicated with an exhaust puiuj \lt ; through a tube DD sealed to it , and was closed hi a rubber stopper C. A short glass tube E , 6 mm in diameter , passed through the stopper , am through it passed the stirring rod FF .
To allow of !
free rotating motion to the stirrer , and to make th\lt ; apparatus gas-tight , a short piece of rubber tubj G , was passed over the end of the tube E and was wired to F. The lower part of the apparatus was contained within the vacuum vessel H , which contained a small quantity of liquid air .
When the liquid hydrogen was made to boil vacuo , its temperature fell , but the liquid did not appear to become more viscous .
At length films of a colourless glassy substance formed at the surface , and broke away as the bubbles rose .
After a short time the vessel became filled with these \gt ; i flakes , and while in this condition stirring , by giving the top of the rod F a rotatory motion , did not appear to indicate that the portion which remained liquid had undergone any considerable increase in viscosity .
After a time the mass contained so much solid that it became pasty , and i finally the whole of it appeared fairly homogeneous .
The solid evaporated fairly rapidly , so that after about 10 minutes only a hollow cylinder of it , about 3 cm .
long and 2-5 cm .
in diameter , remained .
This had the appearance of a film of ice which had partly thawed , consisting of clear granules connected by 1 thinner and less transparent portions of solid .
No crystals were observed on either of the three occasions on which the experiments was carried out .
An attempt was made to examine the solid in the field of a polariscope , but it was unsuccessful .
Though there is no direct evidence of the formation of crystalline hydrogen , my experiments lead me to the belief that solid hydrogen is a crystalline substance and not a pseudo-solid .
The sharpness with which the solid hydrogen is formed , and the constancy of the apparent melting pressure , are distinct evidence in favour of this conclusion , though it must bo allowed that the rate of change in viscosity , when the temperatures are measured on the Centigrade scale , will probably 1904 .
] Pharmacology of Indian Cobra Venom .
183 appear to be more rapid at low temperatures than at high temperatures .
_ _ ..mi .
' The whole question of the formation of solids at very low temperatures is of great interest both from a physical and from a biological standpoint .
It is quite possible that if living organisms were cooled only to temperatures at which physical changes such as crystallisation take place with measurable velocity , the process would be fatal , whereas if they once were cooled to the temperature of liquid air , no such change could take place within finite time , and the organism would survive.* These experiments were made in connection with some investigations which were being carried out at University College , London , with ; the assistance of a grant from the Royal Society .
As I am at the moment unable to continue the work , I have decided to publish this note .
" A Contribution to the Study of the Action of Indian Cobra Poison .
" !
By Captain R. H. Elliot , M.B. , B.S. Lond. , E.R.C.S. Eng. , D.P.H. Camb .
, etc. , of the Indian Medical Service ( Madras ) .
On special duty for Snake Venom Research under the orders of the Secretary of State for India .
Communicated by Professor Sir Thomas R. Fraser , F.R.S. Received January 18 , \#151 ; Read February 25 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) Previous Work on the Subject .
Brunton and Fayrerf discussed the pharmacology of Cobra venom at some length ; they attributed the effects of the poison to its action on the cerebro-spinal nerve-centres , especially on the respiratory centre .
They observed that Cobra venom had a direct action on cardiac muscle , and that it also affected the heart through the vagal system , but they did not lay much stress on circulatory failure .
They surmised that the high and maintained blood pressure of a cobraised animal was due to arteriolar constriction , but did not attempt to explain how this was brought about .
Amongst the many other points of interest they took up , was the influence of artificial respiration in cobraism .
* Experimental results are given by Macfadyen , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , 1900 , pp. 180 , 339 , 488 ; Swithinbank , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 68 , 1901 , p. 502 .
f Owing to the kindness of Professor Sir Thomas Fraser and of Professor E. A. Schafer , the writer was enabled to carry out this research in the Pharmacological and Physiological Laboratories of the University of Edinburgh .
Towards the expense of this research , grants were received from the British Medical Association and from the Moray Fund for the Endowment of Research ( Edinburgh ) .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vols .
21 , 22 , and 23 .

