146 Mr. J. A. M'ClelIand .
'Z_1 1 If the Lorenz expression for S , namely , ---- .
be preferred to d f.i\#151 ; 1/ d , it may be substituted in either of the above formulae .
In either case the actual numbers will , of course , be changed more or less , but the relation above pointed out will still hold good .
The discrepancies will , however , be somewhat exaggerated by the change .
This is suggested as a first approximation to a new law .
It may be useful in both chemical and physical science .
It holds good , however , only for the metallic elements .
" Selective Absorption of Rontgen Rays .
" By J. A. M'Clelland , M.A. , Fellow of the Royal University of Ireland .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 11 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1896 .
( From the Cavendish Laboratory .
) The experiments described in this paper were made to determine whether or not the Rontgen rays given off by a vacuum bulb were of a homogeneous nature , by examining the manner in which they are absorbed by different substances .
The induction coil and vacuum bulb for producing the rays were enclosed in a wooden box thickly lined with metal , with a small hole in the top , directly beneath which and close up to it the vacuum bulb was placed .
Over the hole a well-insulated metal disk was placed and connected to one pair of quadrants of an electrometer .
The two pairs of quadrants are first connected together and with one terminal of a battery of small storage cells , the other terminal being connected to earth .
The quadrants of the electrometer are then separated from each other and from the storage cells , and the induction coil turned on .
The Rontgen rays passing through the hole in the box and falling on the charged disk discharges it , and the intensity of the radiation is measured by the rate at which the spot of light from the electrometer needle moves across the scale .
The metal lining of the box is connected to earth , and the small hole covered with a single sheet of tinfoil to screen the electrometer from direct electrical disturbances .
The substance whose absorptive power is to be examined is placed over the hole so that the rays traverse it before falling on the charged disk .
Evidences of selective absorption were sought for in the following manner .
The rate of leakage was accurately determined when the rays were passing through one of the substances used , say a plate of glass .
Sheets of tinfoil were then substituted for the glass and the Selective Absorption of Rays .
number___n , say\#151 ; taken such that the leakage from the charged disk was approximately the same as when the glass was used .
The rate of leak was then measured accurately .
The ratio of the rate of leak with the glass to that with the n sheets of tinfoil gives a measure of their relative transparency to Rontgen rays .
A number of tinfoil sheets is now placed over the hole ; the glass plate is placed on the top , and the rate of leak measured .
The glass is removed and the same n sheets of tinfoil as were formerly used put in its place , and the leakage measured .
The ratio of the rate of leak in the latter two cases is a measure of the relative transparency of the glass and the n tinfoil sheets to the Rontgen rays after they have been already screened by passing through several layers of tinfoil .
The two ratios thus obtained should be equal if the Rontgen rays are all of one kind , but if the glass is relatively less transparent in the second case it can only be explained by assuming that the Rontgen rays are not homogeneous , and that some of them are more readily absorbed by the glass and others by the tinfoil .
Various substances were tested against tinfoil in the manner described .
With some there was no selective absorption , with others it was very marked .
Glass gave none , with mica and paraffin the effect was small , with fuchsine , eosine , fluorescine , aesculin , and barium sulphide the effect was very marked .
With several fluorescent screens the effect was also marked .
Pure water also gave a distinct though smaller effect .
The table below sets forth the results obtained with these substances .
Column B gives the quotient of the rate of leak through the substance in column A to that through a number of tinfoil layers which gave approximately the same leak .
Column C gives the quotient of the rate of leak through the substance to that through the same tinfoil layers after the rays have already passed through four layers of tinfoil .
A. B. C. Difference .
Calcium tungstate . .
, 1 07 0*85 0*22 Calcium platinocyanide . . . .
ISO 0*86 0-44 Luminous paint .
1-0 0*71 0*29 Potassium platinoeyanide . .
1 -10 0*87 0*23 Fuchsine 1M5 0*77 0*38 Eosine , . . .
1 '31 1*00 0*31 Aesculin 1*33 0*90 0*43 Fluorescine .
1*32 1*08 0 *24 Barium sulphide 1*30 i 0*97 0*33 m 2 148 Mr. F. Osmond and Prof. W. C. Roberts-Ansten .
Of the substances used , the above showed the effect best , but with wood , paraffin , and water , although small , it could always be detected .
We conclude from the above results that the Rontgen rays are of different kinds , and that the substances given in the table differ very much from tinfoil in their selective absorption .
After the rays have been screened by passing through some tinfoil layers additional layers are much less absorbent , while the absorption produced by other substances is not so much diminished .
Of the substances tried , those which are fluorescent gave the most marked difference as compared with tinfoil .
The above results were all obtained with one vacuum tube , which was working extremely well .
It produced a very rapid leak from the charged disk , and the pressure of its residual air was very small .
In fact , after working for a time it became too strong for the coil that was being used to work it .
Another vacuum tube , in which the pressure of the residual air was greater and which was not so efficient in producing leakages , was then used , and several of the substances used before were again tested , but in no case was any evidence of selective absorption obtained .
As far as the test was efficient , the radiation from this bulb was homogeneous .
A third tube was then used , more efficient than the last in producing leakage , but not so good as the first used .
With this tube experiments made in the same way as before gave evidence of selective absorption , but not so marked as with the first tube .
It seems therefore that as a tube becomes more efficient the character of the rays given off becomes less homogeneous .
" On the Structure of Metals , its Origin and Changes .
" By F. Osmond and W. C. Roberts-Austen , F.R.S. , Professor of Metallurgy , Royal College of Soienoe .
Received June 10 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The authors begin their paper by stating that it has been shown by Herbert Tomlinson that the atomic volume of metals is intimately connected with their thermal capacity* and with Young 's modulus.f He considers , in view of the work of Wertheim , ^ of Maxwell , S and of Heen , || and as the result of his own experiments , that the value of * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 88 ( 1884-85 ) , p. 488 .
f 4 Phil. Trans./ Part I , 1883 , p. 32 .
J 1 Ann. de Chim .
efc de Phys./ vol. 12 ?
1844 .
S 4 Phil. Trans./ vol. 156 , 1866 , p. 249 .
|| 'Bull .
de TAcad .
Roy .
de Belgique/ vol. 4 ( 1882 ) .

