562 Note on Merlia normani and the " Monticuliporas " By R. Kirkpatrick .
( Communicated by Prof. Arthur Dendy , F.R.S. Received August 15 , 1912 .
) As a result of my recent investigation\#151 ; carried on with the aid of a grant from the Royal Society\#151 ; of Merlia nor , Kirkp .
, a siliceous sponge with a supplementary calcareous skeleton , I find that the sponge owes its exceptional character to the fact of its being infested with a Zooxanthella which passes a resting phase in certain cells of the sponge and a motile phase outside those cells .
All degrees of infection can be seen , from those of sponge cells with only a few monads to stages in which the greatly hypertrophied sponge cells are packed with countless numbers of these organisms .
The monads in the resting condition have a cellulose-like coat , and in both phases a nucleus and an orange-coloured chromatophor .
In the resting phase many undergo division into 2 , 4 , 8 and probably more cells .
When masses of sponge cells loaded with monads are examined alive in sea water in a moist chamber , the monads can be seen escaping from their tests and from the sponge cells and swimming about in the water .
In this stage , in which they possess two flagella , conjugation can sometimes be observed between cells of different sizes .
After a period of activity varying from a few minutes to half an hour the motile cells die ; but in place of disintegrating , they become calcified .
Well prepared decalcified sections of Merlia show that the calcareous skeleton is made up of bricks , each consisting of a calcified corpse of one of these monads .
Possibly under normal conditions many of the monads on their escape from the sponge cells become calcified , and added on to the skeleton without passing through the flagellate stage .
Merlia is a lineal descendant of the Palaeozoic Monticuliporas , all of which are siliceous sponges with supplementary skeletons formed of the calcified bodies of monads which had lived commensally in the cells of those sponges .
The Monticuliporas proper , also species of Chsetetes and Rhaphidopora , all contain siliceous spicules of a kind related to those of Merlia , and , further , the calcareous skeleton is formed on the same plan .
The monticules of Monticulipora are the expression of sporadic outbursts of activity on the part of the monads , whereby an extra supply of bricks is formed .
Very frequently , Merlia normani is found growing over a Melobesia-like crust , which latter directly encrusts the shell or rock .
Even .
A Camel Trypanosome .
in Palaeozoic Monticuliporas the same relation holds , for in the case of fossils encrusting shells , a thin graphite-like layer of alga is sometimes found between the Monticulipora and the shell.* At present I am not prepared to say to what genus the Zooxanthella monad of Merlia belongs .
I propose to name the species " noronhse " in honour of Senhor A. C. Noronha , who rendered invaluable assistance during the dredging operations off Madeira and Porto Santo Island .
The name Merlia is a synonym of Monticulipora , the name of the sponge being Monticulipora normani , Kirkp .
A Camel Trypanosome , with some Remarks on the Biometric Method of Diagnosing Trypanosomes .
By Dr. H. L. Puke .
( Communicated by Sir John Rose Bradford , K.C.M.G. , Sec. R.S. Received September 2 , 1912 .
) The trypanosome which forms the subject of the following experiments was kindly forwarded to Mpumu by Mr. E. Montgomery , M.R.C.V.S. , from the veterinary pathological laboratory , Nairobi .
The organism was originally obtained from the blood of a camel from Boran .
Experiments were undertaken to see whether the trypanosome was transmissible by laboratory-bred " r. palpalis , and a few sub-inoculations were performed .
Morphology.\#151 ; Length : 400 trypanosomes taken at random were measured , and the results are given in Table I. As is there shown , the length varies between 18 g and 34 / jl .
Shape : The great majority of the trypanosomes seen are slender ; a few forms occur which are markedly bro\amp ; der .
The flagellar end may be very much drawn out , the kinetic nucleus being sometimes from 4 ^ to 4*5 from this extremity .
Undulating membrane : Well developed .
Flagellum : In the slides examined , only one single specimen was observed in which there could be any doubt as to the presence of a free flagellum .
In the majority , the free portion of the flagellum is very well marked .
Kinetic nucleus : Always clearly discernible ; small and round , situated VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; B. 2 R

