]\gt ; Rotation of the Arc in Radial Magnetic Field .
29 nearly but not quite homogeneous , would alter altogether the appearance of a fracture .
In this note only isotropic materials are considered , but it seems probable that the same principles might be used to explain the cleavage of crystals .
The Rotation of the Electric Arc in a Radial Magnetic Field .
By J. NICOL , B.A. , B.Sc. , Wheatstone Laboratory , King 's College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. H. A. Wilson , F.RS .
Received October 1 , \mdash ; Read December 10 , 1908 .
) The following paper contains an account of a series of measurements of the velocity of motion of an arc in a magnetic field at right angles to its length .
The experiments are similar to those made by Prof. Wilson and Mr. G. H. Martyn*with the electric discharge in a vacuum tube and were suggeste by Prof. Wilson .
The apparatus consisted of a vertical iron rod magnetised by two solenoids at its ends , wound in opposite directions , so as to give a pole in the middle of the bar .
With this arrangement the field round the middle of the bar is uniform and radial .
The distance between the two solenoids was fixed by a quartz tube , which also served to protect the iron rod from the heat of the arc .
The arc passed between two copper tubes , 2 cm .
in diameter , held coaxial with the iron rod by a clamp made of wood and brass .
The coppel tubes were clamped in holes cut in two pieces of thick ( 5 mm. ) sheet brass , fixed to the top and bottom of a block of hard wood F. The required arc length was obtained by the electrodes while they were pressed firmly against a gauge of sheet brass held between them .
The base of the rod and the stand carrying the arc electrodes each rested on three screws in a hole slot and plane fixed to the table by paraffin wax .
Thus the whole apparatus could be quickly taken down and set up again in the same position .
This was necessary to enable the electrodes to be renewed after each experiment .
The arc was in all cases started with the netic field already in action , by momentarily bringing a piece of arc-lighting carbon in contact with the two electrodes .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 79 , 190 Mr. J. Nicol .
The Rotation of the [ Oct. 1 , Experiments were first made with carbon electrodes , but though the discharge could be started and would occasionally make a few revolutions it never lasted for more than one or two seconds .
An iron-iron and an ironmercury arc were tried with equally unsatisfactory results .
Then a copper 1908 .
] Electric Arc in Radial Magnetic Field .
had to be put in the circuit .
A few experiments were done with the 100volt supply , but the arc was then much more liable to go out before the necessary reading had been obtained ; it was therefore preferred to use the -volt supply .
The current used was measured by means of an Elliott ortable standard ammeter reading up to 15 amperes .
the copper arc was much more stable than any of the others which had been tried , the discharge seldom lasted for longer than thirf , seconds , and then only when brightly polished electrodes were used .
After every second or third discharge thel.efore , the apparatus was taken down and the electrodes replaced by fresh ones while the old ones were repolished in a lathe with fine emery paper .
As the discharge only lasted for so short a period , a stroboscopic method of lneasuring the speed of rotation was out of the question , and in place of it a photographic one involving the use of a rotating mirror was employed .
The mirror was fixed not quite normally on one end of the shaft of a electric motor .
When the motor was working , a point source viewed in the mirror appeared drawn out into a circle of light , and if the point source was intermittent this circle was broken into as many dots as the number of times the source became active during each revolution of the motor .
The intermittent source was obtained by a vertical slit in front of the arc .
Thi was illuminated by the arc once every time it revolved round the iron bar .
The image of the slit in the rotating mirror was then photographed with an ordinary camera .
The shutter was adjusted so that the plate was exposed for a little longer than the time taken by the mirror to make one revolution .
By this means a slight overlapping of the dots at the beginning and end of the exposure was insured and it was consequently easy to count to the nearest tenth the number of revolutions made by the arc during one revolution of the lnirror .
Imperial Special Rapid plates were used and satisfactory results ; isochromatic ( Imperial N.F. ) plates were tried but did not give nearly so dense an image .
Three exposures were taken on each plate , the rising front of the camera being moved between each pair of exposures .
To count the number of dots the negatives were copied on tracing paper , as the counting was more easil .
done on these tracings than on the original negatives .
turn the mirror an .
series motor designed for 100 yolts employed .
It was used , however , as a separately excited machine , the field magnet circuit being connected to the 100-volt mains through an 8-C.P .
lamp , and the armature windings supplied with current from an 8-volt accumulator .
The speed was regulated by an adjustable resistance in the armature circuit .
The number of revolutions made by the motor was The motor was run at about 250 revolutions a minute , and the camera exposure was about of a second ( a nominal second with a Unicum shutter ) .
The relative positions of the arc , motor with mirror , and the camera , are shown in fig. 2 .
Theory of the Rotation of the Arc. If and are the velocities of the ions due to unit electric force , the rate at which the arc moves is given by the expression* , or ' if is the number of revolutions the arc makes per second , and and X the magnetic and electric forces , and the radius of the electrode .
The following is a proof of this relation .
The velocity of drift of an ion along the arc is .
This motion of the ion in a magnetic field causes a *Wilson and Martin , .
cit. 1908 .
] Electric Arc in a Field .
transverse electric force H. to act on the ion which ives it a transverse velocity HXk2 .
Hence the transverse displacement of an ion while it passes from one electrode to the other is where is the arc length .
Although , unless the velocities of the two ions are the same , the arc will not remain parallel to the axis during rotation , the two ends will eventually move at the same speed and their position will be iven by for anode end , for cathode end .
A positive ion starting from the anode and moving to the cathode in a time must then travel a distance transversely .
Similarly , the transverse motion of a negative ion is these to the values previously found , we get : thus Eliminating instead of from the above two equations , we .
The maximum value of used was , and the velocity of the ions in unit ( C.G.S. electromagnetic ) field is not greater than so that which measures the inclination of the arc to the axis , is always very snlall .
This explains the observation made by Wilson and Martin that the in their experiments always remained perpendicular to the jtrodes d its motion .
Jleasurement of the Magnet Field H. The current was supplied from an -volt accumulator , and measured by means of an } eter similar to the one used for the measure- meant of the arc current , but reading only to 5 amperes .
The ammeters are issued as correct to 1 per cent. , and they were found to agree with one another perfectly .
A reversing key was included in the circuit , and the current was frequently reversed when any change was made in the netisation .
In oing from a higher to a lower netisation , the iron was first by the method of reversaIs , in order to insure that the field should be a detinite function of the current and } ) endent of the permanent magnetism retained by the bar .
The actual values of the field ( or rather of , which is for a radial field ) for rent m currents , were found as follows , the method the sanlC { that used by Wilson and MarCin .
Two coils of 50 turns each vere wound in grooves turned on a vood cylinder of the same dianleter as tlJe copper tub used as electrodes the arc .
The two coils were first connected in opposition and placed in VOL. LXXXII.\mdash ; A. Mr. J. Nicol .
The of the [ Oct. 1 the position usually occupied by the arc .
The coils were connected to a low resistance Broca ballistic galvanometer , and the deflections produced by reversing val.ious currents in the netising solenoids of the iron bar observed .
The connections of the coils were then so altered that they were in series , and that a rrent would pass round them in the same direction .
The coils were removed from the iron bar and placed along axis 01 a long solenoid at its centre , and the deflection produced by reversing the current in the solenoid observed .
Let be the number of turns in each coil on the boxwood cylinder , radius of mean area of section of these coils , their separation , number of turns on long solenoid .
and its length and radius .
the current in amperes reversed in it .
and the galvanometer swings produced by reversing the field due to the iron bar and to the long solenoid respectively ; then ubstituting the values used , The values of S were plotted on squared paper against values of the magnetising current in amperes , and were found to lie on a straight line .
Substituting the value thus found , we get .
As occurs in the expression for the ionic velocities , it is obvious from the above deduction that it is not necessary to know either the diameter of the coils on the boxwood cylinder , or the number of turns in them .
The diameter of the coils was , however , made equal to the diameter of the arc electrodes , to avoid any error which would result from the field not being radial .
The separation of the coils was four or five times the length of arc usually employed , but this does not introduce an error , as experlment showed that the field varied very little the iron bar , the variation being under 1 per cent. per centimetre .
The equality of the number of turns in the two coils was tested by placing them , ether with an iron core , inside the long solenoid while they were connected in opposition .
The defleotion obtained on reversing the current in the solerloid was negligible compared with 1908 .
] Electric Arc in Radial Magnetic Field .
the time it lasted being necessary to read the ammeter and take a photograph .
The speed of rotation was found to increase with current approxinlately linearly , and a rough value of the rate of increase was used to reduce each observation of to the value corresponding to the nearesb whole number of amperes .
Means of the readings for each current were then taken and plotted against the current .
The values of obtained for the same current in different experiments.showed very considerable variations ( 10 to 20 per cent. in extreme cases ) , but these variations were irregular , and there was no evidence to show that depended on the nitude of as it would do were the speed of rotation not proportional to the of the magnetic field .
The final results reduced in the aboye way are collected in the following table corresponding to fig. 3\mdash ; .
22 .
23 .
( 10 ) 8.5 48 .
The numbers in brackets indicate the number of experiments used in getting the mean value .
*These numbers are obtained from experiments made with electrodes used a second time without cleaning .
The actual values of the field used varied from 35 to 140 C.G.S. units .
The of rotation observed varied from 30 to 170 revs .
per second onding to linear velocities of from 200 to cm .
per second .
The values of in the above table have been plotted against the current in , and it will be seen that the points lie approximately on the line or substituting the values , and .
Substituting the experimental numbers for , and X in the equation we obtain the following values of the product of the two ionic velocities per unit electric intensity for different values of the current .
If and 1908 .
] Electric Arc in gnetic F Assuming that the negative ion in these is a corpuscle , its velocity caIl be calculated from the expression\mdash ; Neglecting any effect its may have , the mean free path of a corpuscle in air should , owing to its small size , be four tinles that of an air molecule , a relation which agrees with experim ent.f the } ) creature of the arc to be 2000o C. and the mean free path of an air molecule at , we get .
To finld , the mean agitation velocity of the nscle , assume that the equation of holds between the corpuscles and the particles ; this ives t , it we take metres a second as the velocity of a hydrogen molecule at C. Substituting in the expression for , we but , and therefore this with the value found for for a current of amperes , we have a value cm .
per second per volt per centimetre .
This is about one-thirtieth of the velocity of the ative corpuscle , and since from the above deduction of this velocity it is evident that is propor- tional to , the mass of the positive ions must ) about 900 times that of a corpuscle , or about the same as that of a hydrogen atom .
The positive ions then cannot be either copper or air molecules , but may be the same as carriers of positive electricity detected by Prof. J. J. Thomson in the Kanalstlahlen .
On this view , vever , it is rather difficult to give a satisfactory explanation of the way in which increases the current .
For is only directly proportional to the temperature , and the experiments show that is trebled by a rise in the current from 2 to 9 amperes .
This would indicate a rise in temperature from 1000o to 3000o , ) is larger than is probable .
If the positive ions were groups of copper or molecules the rise could be explained as due to a rise in temperature accompanied by dissociation of these groups .
* Langevin , Theses , Paris , 1902 , p. 47 .
Townsend , ' Phil. Mag 1901 , p. 198 .
42 Rotation of the Electric Arc in gnetic Field .
In this conn ection it may be mentioned that the negative electrode was always much more oxidised and corroded than the positive , but this may have been due to its being the lower electrode , and thus meeting the upward convection air current and robbing it of its oxygen before it reached the positive electrode .
Conclusions.\mdash ; The speed of the electric arc across a transverse magnetic field has been measured and found to be sensibly ( 1 ) independent of the arc length , ( 2 ) proportional to the netic field strength , and ( 3 ) to increase linearly with the current .
From the experiments the value , the product of the speeds of the ions carrying the current , has been calculated .
From this value , by assuming the negative ion to be a corpuscle and calculating velocity , it has been shown that the carriers of positive electricity have a mass of the same order as that of the hydrogen atom .
In conclusion , I wish to thank Prof. H. A. Wilson for esting to me the subject of this research and for much kind advice and encouragement during its progress .

