On the Methods of Cutting Rock Crystal for Micrometers .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. F.R.S. Read February 24 , 1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 126 .
] For the purpose of examining the phenomenron of double refraction , it is easv to combine a wedge of rock crystAal iwith own of crown glass , so.that a luminous object seen through them shall appear in its true place by ordinary refraction , accompanied by a second image produced by extraordinary refraction .
In consequence of the dispersion of colours which occurs in employing different substances , such a combination is not suited for the micrometer invented by Abbe Rochon ; but it is not difficult to obtain such a section of rock-crystal as may be substituted for the glass wedge , so that the pencil of light shall be colourless without diminishing the separation of the images .
But since the degree to which the double refraction of rock crystal separates the two portions of a beam of light transmitted through it , is sometimes not sufficiently great , it becomes desirable to increase it ; and though the means of effecting this have not been described , the author proceeds to explain the method that he has found advantageous , and which he regards the same as that of M. Rochon .
The author then describes three modes of cutting wedges of rock crystal , the axis of crystallization being differently placed in each .
In the first , or horizontal wedge , the axis is at right angles to the first surface .
In the second , or lateral wedge , the axis is in the first surface and parallel to its acute edge .
In the third , or vertical wedge , the axis is also in the first surface , but at right angles to the acute edge .
An object seen through the first wedge , in the direction of the axis , does not appear double ; but in the others the transmitted rays pass at right angles to the axis , and they each produce two images .
By placing two of these wedges together , with their acute edges in opposite directions , there are obviously three modes in which they may be combined in pairs , represented by LH , VH , and VL .
In the two first cases , the separation of the images will be the same , and an object seen through the combination appears double to the amount of 17 ' ; but the third produces a distinct effect ; for , by reason of the transverse position of the axes of crystallization , the separation of the two images becomes exactly doubled .
The pencil ordinarily refracted by the first wedge is refracted extraordinarily by the second , and vice versa , so that neither of the divided pencils returns to its true place ; and since one falls as much short of the mean as the other exceeds the truthl , they are ultimately separated twice the usual distance between the ordinary and extraordinary refractions , and thus the images are separated 34 ' .
This , the author says , it can scarcely be doubted is essentially the construction employed by M. Rochon.-This paper is concluded by some further directions respecting the mode of cutting and arranging the prisms for the above purpose .

