]\gt ; [ 319 ] VIIT .
The Rotation of Spheroid .
B.y S. S. HOUGH , M.A. , Fello 10 of St. John 's Student in ' the University of Cambridge .
by Professor G. H. DARWIN , F.R. ?
$ .
Received December 12 , 1895 , \mdash ; Read January 16 , 1896 .
Introduction .
IT is well known that , if a body whose principal moments of inertia are be set rotating about its axis of symmetry , and then be subjected to a slight disturbance , it will execute oscillations about its mean position , in consequence of which the axis of rotation will undergo periodic displacements relatively to the body in a period which bears to the period of rotation the ratio a : .
The object of the present investigation is to determine to what extent this period will be modified if the : body , instead of being perfectly rigid , is capable of elastic deformations .
Sb64kL The problem has important bearings in connection with the theory of the Earth 's rotation .
The remarkab]e researches of Dr. S. C. CHANDLER , published in a series of papers in the ' Astronomical Journal , have placed it almost beyond a doubt that the axis of rotation of the Earth is subject to a series of displacements , the most important of which consists of a periodic motion in all respects similar in character to the oscillation mentioned above , but having a period considerably in excess of that which theory would require if the Earth could be regarded as perfectly rigid .
It is natural to suppose that this motion has its origin in the same cause , but that the theory by which the period has previously been assigned is in some respects defective .
The most plausible attempt which has yet been made to correct this theory is that given by NEWCOMB , who shows , an elegant geometrical method , that the elasticity of the solid portions of the Earth and the mobility of the ocean will each have the effect prolonging the period .
He then proceeds to obtain a numerical estimate of this extension , basing his calculations on certain results given by THOMSON and TAIT assumptions hhich dppear towith rence teformation ophere.rder these $ 8.5.96 founded ; view tHOUGH OROTATION Oution , composed osotropic , gravitating mhese assumptions t attempted to exhibit the solution of the problem in an analytical form .
account is taken of the surface waters .
For further simplification we have also posed that the figure conforms to that required hydrostatic equilibrium , so when the body is undisturbed we may suppose it free from strain in its interior .
have reason to suppose that this condition is approximately realized in the case of the4 Earth .
In $ 1-2 , I have obtained .
the rigorous dynamical equations for the oscillations o#. .
such a system .
The form of these equations is , however , such as to render an .
approximate solution necessary .
Hence it has been assumed in the subsequent sections that the ellipticity of the spheroid and , consequently , the angular velocity of rotation , are small quantities .
This assumption leads to a considerable reduction in differential equations which express the elastic displacements , and , in reduces them to the familiar equations for the equilibrium of a strained elastic body The boundary conditions are also similar in form to the surface equations which are obtained in treating of the problem of the deformations of an elastic sphere , and as the solution of this problem is well known , we are in a position to obtain a solution of our differential equations applicable to the problem in hand .
SS3-4 are devoted the transformation of the equations into a form convenient for solution , while the actual solution is given in S 5 .
The method of approximation followed up to this point fails to lead to a determination of the period .
When , however , the body is supposed perfectly rigid , we are able to determine the period accurately by means of the equations of angular momentum for the whole system .
This suggests the use of an analogous which is employed in S6 , to determine the period when elastic deformations are ) taken into account .
The principal results of this paper will be found in S8 , where they are compared. .
with the hypotheses made NEWCOMB .
It is found that the general character of the motion agrees with that assumed by NEWCOMB , but that his quantitative law as .
to the displacement of the pole , due to elastic distortion , is slightly in error .
The bearing of these results on the theory of the Earth 's constitution is discussed in the final section ( S 9 ) .
S 1 .
Equations of Motion of Isotropic , lbpressible , Elastic Sohd , referred to axes rotating uniformly .
Take as axis of the axis of rotation , and let the system be rotating .
with angular velocity about this axis .
Let be the coordinates at the time . . . . .
( 7 ) , : . . . . .
( 8 ) .
S2 .
Conditions .
The conditions to be satisfied at the boundary are that the components of surface traction should vanish at all points of the displaced surface .
We proceed to replace these conditions by certain analytical conditions at the mean surface .
Take a point on the mean surface and let the normal at meet the surface of the distorted body in Let be the direction-cosines of the normal and the direction-cosines of the normal at to the displaced surface ; alsol let .
Then will be small quantities of the order of the displacements Let denote the components of stress at and thp same * ' Acta Mathematica , ' vol. 7 , p. , \amp ; .
Thus the component of surface-traction at parallel to the axis of is , , if we neglect small quantities of the second order .
Now in the small terms we may replace \amp ; c. , by their values in the steady motion .
Since we have supposed the body when undisturbed to be free from tangential stress in its interior , we have in this case throughout , while at the surface also Therefore may be put equal to zero , and say , where denotes the value of gravity ( inclusive of centrifugal force ) at the surface .
Thus the -component of surface-traction at is Introducing the values of in terms of the displacements and equating this pression to zero , we obtain ; in like mamneY , by considering the components of surface-traction in the directions of the.axes of and ' in terms of we suppose to be made infinite , should approach finite limits which we will denote by The quantities denote the displacements of a body which is supposed perfectly rigid .
Now the most general small displacement of such a body consists of a translation whose components we may denote by , and a rotation whose components denote by .
Thus , the most general values of geometrically possible are When , however , we are dealing with the rotation of a rigid body not subject to external disturbing force the quantities will not appear , and we may take . . . . . .
( 11 ) .
Let us now suppose that where have the values ( 11 ) .
This is equivalent to supposing that the body is first displaced by rotation as a whole through small angles about Ox , Oy and is then subjected to elastic distortion , the displacelnents due to the distortions being Further , let , where . . . . .
( 12 ) , .
and where denote the parts due to the harmonic inequalities respectively .
denote the non.periodic part of be the potential at the point : whence fntroducing these values in ( 12 ) and expanding by TAYLOR'S theorem , we find But from the definition of we have , .
at the surface , and , therefore , or , whence , finally , MR. S. S. HOUGH ON THE ROTATION OF AN ELASTIC SPHEROID .
If now we change our variables from to , the equations of motion jbecome ( 15 ) , while in virtue of ( 14 ) the boundary equations may be written c.os eos .
S4 .
Reduction of the Equations thoe Body is of the form of Spheroid of Ellipticity .
The only assumption we have made as yet as to the form of the free surface is that it is a possible figure of equilibrium for a rotating mass of liquid , so that the body may be free from strain when rotating uniformly .
The simplest which can occur and that which presents the greatest interest is the case of a spheroid of revolution of small ellipticity .
We propose for the future to confine ourselves to this case .
If we neglect the square of the angular velocity of rotation is related to by the equation .
( 17 ) , where the densit , is expressed in gravitational units .
If then the units of length and time be so chosen that is finite , will be a small quantity of the order Take as the equation to the free surface where Then the direction cosines of the normal to the surface , where is a solid harmonic of order , are \amp ; c. , and thus we have ' whence or .
( 18 ) .
Now observation indicates that in the case of the Earth the oscillation in question differs but slightly in type from the motion of a rigid body , whence we conclude thai must be small compared with .
We propose therefore to make assumptions , leaving the verification thereof to our subsequent work , that contain the small factor , while is a small quantity of the order The latter assumption is justifiable when the body is perfectly rigid , since in this case we have ( 20 ) .
* To the same order we may suppose these equations to hold good at the surface : instead of at the surface S5 .
Determination of the Elastic Distortions .
The modified forms ( 19 ) of the equations of motion are simply the equations to which we arled in-determining displacements in a strained elastic solid and the solutions of them , when either the displacements or the surface-tractions at the surface of a sphere are given , are well known .
We may readily adapt these solutions so as to satisfy the boundary conditions ( 20 ) .
Denote for brevity the function by From ( 19 ) we obtain at once .
This equation replaces the more licated form ( 8 ) ; a palticular solution of it is Introducing this value of into the left-hand members of ( 19 ) , we find particular solutions of which are .
These do not satisfy the last of equations ( 19 ) , but they make the physical significanoe of these equations , vide .
S8 infra .
Vide LOVE , ' Elasticity , ' vol. 1 , chap .
10 .
whence and finally * We conclude that for a homogeneous spheroid of the same size and mean as the Earth , the period would be extended from 232 days to 385 days in consequenu of elastic distortions , if we suppose the rigidity to be that of steel .
If we take into account the variations in the density of the Earth 's strata problem presented becomes much more complicated .
We must replace by the Precessional Consbant , which will no longer be equal to the surface ellipticity .
It value may however be accurately determined by means of data furnished by the Theory of Precession ; this value is known to be 1/ 305 .
Hence the effective value 01 is diminished in the ratio As regards the effect of heterogeneity on the value of , we are , at present , only a position to make speculations .
Professor NLWCOMB points out that in ( alculating the mean density , greater weight should be given to the density of the layers on account of their greater effectiye inertia , and hence should also diminished .
A reasonable hypothesis seems to be that it is dimimshed in the same ratio as .
If we make this hypothesis , we find that if the effective rigidity of Earth were as great as that of steel , the period of the Eulerian nutation .
would become days Clays .
This period is slightly in excess of CHANDLER'S observed period of 427 days .
We therefore conclude that the effective rigidity of the Earth is slightly greater that of steel .
If we make the same hypothesis as above , with .
regard the effects of variations of density , we may easily calculate what of rigidity would consistent with CnANDLER'S obseryed period .
We find for the period of a homo geneous spheroid of the same .
rigidity days days .
iu ( 31 ) we 'bbain Let be the point where the axis Oz cuts the surface of the spheroid , and let us take a pair of rectangular axes , having aa origin and lel to the origirJ axes Ox , Oy .
Let be the points in which the mean axis of figUre , the axis of the deformed figure and the instantaneous axis meet the plane Cxy .
Taking radius of the spheroid as unity , the coordinates of are , or .
ll'he coordinates of are , , , or , the coordinates of are , or , COB .
We thus see , the points all ] on same straight line through and that this line revolves about with uniform angular velocity relatively to the moving axes .
These axes are themselves rotating with angular velocity about in the same direction , and , hence , the actual angular .
velocity of the line PP'R about is The distances from remain while since CR is of the order compared with CP or .
, whioh small quantities , we may suppose the point to coincide with C. We conclude that Hence the direction-cosines of the axis of rotation relatively to the axes , or .
Thus , relatively to the Earth , the axis of rotation will describe a cone of revolution the mean axis of figure with angular velocity , the direction of motion in fthis cone being the as the direction of the Earth 's rotation .
This motion would manifest itself by a periodic change in the latitude of places on the Earth 's surface , as found by astronomical observations .
The circumstances we have here described are the well-known characteristics of the Eulerian nutatiowith the additional feature that the axis of figure is displaced by centrifuga ] force towards the axis of rotation .
This latter fact has been assumed by NEWCOMB and other writers as the basis of their work .
The law of displacement of the pole of figure assumed by NEWCOMB is , however , not verified .
We find : PP'R : or PP ' . . . .
, whereas NEWCOMB has taken : : . . . . .
( ) , where denotes the ellipticity which would be induced in a sphere by centrifugal * TISSERAND , ' Mecanique Celeste , ' vol. 2 , p. 494 .
'Monthly Notices , ' March , 1892 .
For an account of previoua work , vide TISSERAND , ' Mecanique Celeste , ' vol. 2 , chap .
xxx . .
S. .
HOUGH ON THE ROTATION OF AN ELASTIC SPHEROID .
S9 .
Conclusions .
The existence of the Eulerian nutation , and the fact that it would give rise to a ariation in latitude , was first predicted theoretically on the assumption that the arth could be regarded as a rigid body .
Our present work , however , shows that hypothesis of rigidity , though affording a sufficiently ation the circumstances presented by nature to specify the character of the oscillation , tot , ally inadequate to lead to a correct determination of the period unless the hich hcbed txperiment.edge warth possesses avery migher degree oigidity t nountk of the Earth 's rigidity arises from the very vague indications furnished by Theory , and we must therefore have recourse to observation to determine the with accuracy .
This has been effected by Dr. CHANDLER , who , as the result a discussion of a very large number of observations , has assigned 427 days as the period .
This period is , as the present theory requires , considerably in excess of Eulerian period of 305 days . .
In S 7 we have endeavoured to obtain a numerical estimate of the effective rigidity the Earth which would be consistent with this observed period , and we have found it to be slightly greater than that of steel , a result which agrees sufficiently ae\amp ; elosely with th , requirements of Tidal Theory .
Various causes however combine to render this result liable to a considerable amount of uncertainty .
In the first place , .our present analysis applies only to ahomogeneous spheroid composed of isotropic material , neither of which conditions are fully realized in the case of the Earth .
In thesecondplace , thereareprobablytiousofthesolidpartsoftheEarth , othercausesinadditiontotheelasticdeforma-whichtendtomodifytheperiod .
Inparticular have completely .
the effects of the mobility of the ocean .
According to NnWCOMB these effects will be small compared with the effects cf elastic deformation , but different writers have expressed widely different opinions on the subject .
Thus WOODWARD* is of opinion that they alone would be sufficient to fully account for the observed , extension of the period .
NEWCOMB'S view is to some extent confirmed by aving aeriod which hubject o uite ouestion.anner tesults would bffected , avethought ipply aorrection occount ; esults , then , must onthesubjectonlyberegarded as provisional , pending more complete mathematical investigations In a previous paper S I have investigated the effects of an internal fluid nucleus , * ' Astron. Jour No. 345 , vol. 15 .
'Astron .
Nach No. 3261 .
Astron. Jour , Phil. variation still seems opposed to the existence of an internal fluid nucleus .
Finally we may consider the effects of the Earth 's viscosity .
Unless this be great that the present work is inapplicable , a circumstance which seems to be precluded from the close reement of our results with observation , the chief effect internal friction will be to cause the oscillation in question to gradually die without producing any material change in the period .
The dissipative forces entirely from the distortion of the parts of the system , and consequently no such : forces will occur if the system be absolutely rigid throughout .
Now we have that the motion consists very approximately of a rotation as a rigid body , and that the elastic distortions are exceedingly minute .
Hence we conclude that a very smaU amount of dissipative force wil ] be called into play , and thus if .
the motion is once set up , there appears to be no difficulty in accounting \amp ; r its continuance for a very siderable period , possibly extending over several centuries .

