222 Prof. K. Pearson .
On the Kinetic Accumulation of Stress , of years , and partly to irregularities , physical and formal , in the surface of the ground .
Another source of irregularity affecting previous observations of this sort , namely , thermometer errors arising from the uncertainty as to the temperature of the liquid in the long stems of the mercury or alcohol thermometers , does not in this case apply ; and if other errors peculiar to the platinum thermometers exist , they seem to be confined within much smaller limits .
" On the Kinetic Accumulation of Stress , illustrated by the Theory of Impulsive Torsion .
" By Karl Pearson , P.E.S. , Professor of Applied Mechanics , University College , London .
Eeceived May 29 , \#151 ; Eeacl June 21 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
It is usual in engineering practice to double the value of the stresses , calculated statically , when a live load comes onto a girder ; and further various empirical laws , such as those due to Wohler , are adopted in the case of repeated loading to measure the effective resistance of a structure .
While these methods , practically adopted , show very clearly that there is a just appreciation that loading varying with the time differs in its nature very considerably from purely permanent loading , they yet fall considerably short of the definiteness required from the theoretical standpoint .
Occasionally it must be confessed that they would fail even from the practical standpoint were it not for the large factor of safety usually adopted .
So soon as a live load comes onto a girder , even without impulse , vibrational terms arise in the strains , and the same thing occurs also in the parts of machinery subjected to external forces changing with the time .
The discussion of the strains in a girder due to a rolling , load was first undertaken by Sir George Stokes in 1849 , * * * S and his results have been considerably extended in later papers by Phillips , Eenaudot , Bresse , and de Saint-Venant.f The latter has further dealt with a considerable number of problems of what I have elsewhere termed non-impulsive as well as a variety of cases of impulsive resilience in the case of bars receiving longitudinal or transverse impacts .
S The numerical results of Saint-Venant 's papers , as well as his graphical representations , hardly seem * See ' History of Elasticity , ' vol. 1 , arts .
1276 and 1417 .
f Loc .
cit. , vol. 2 , arts .
372\#151 ; 382 .
X Loc .
cit. , vol. 2 , arts .
355\#151 ; 357 .
S Loc .
cit. , vol. 2 , arts 401\#151 ; 414 .
( For the history of the subject see art .
341 .
) illustrated by the Theory of Impulsive Torsion .
to have been sufficiently considered in the light of practice .
They show that there can be a kinetic accumulation of stress at sections where a wave of vibrations is reflected , and that in many cases this kinetic stress can considerably exceed double the value of the statical stress at that section due to the same load permanently applied .
In fact , every case of repeated loading or live-loading forms a kinetic problem which must be independently solved , and which , if it presents difficulties , still presents difficulties such as the mathematician is in duty bound to overcome .
While the papers to which I have referred give a fairly complete solution of a number of problems in longitudinal and transverse loading of bars and girders , the problem of torsional loading seems to have been untouched up to the present .
Yet the question of torsional vibrations is one that arises very frequently , as in the cases of shafting and axles .
The present memoir endeavours to give from the mathematical standpoint a fairly comprehensive solution of the problem of the kinetic accumulation of stress in bars , shafts , axles , \amp ; c. , o\\ ing to repeated , impulsive , or changing systems of torsional loading .
The attempt__following the traditions of de Saint-Venant\#151 ; has been made , however , not to leave the results in the form of long series unintelligible to the average practical man .
A very large amount of numerical reduction has been undertaken , and many of the results are shown graphically .
The whole of the calculations , as well as the original large diagrams , are my own work ; but I owe to Mr. G. Baker and Mr. J. Longbottom , who have at one time or another been my assistants at University College , the reduced diagrams which accompany this paper , and I have to cordially thank them for the care and labour they have given to the reproduction of my drawings .
2 .
With regard to the general conclusions of the memoir , I should wish to draw special attention to the following points : ( \#171 ; .
) When a load is repeated , or applied , reversed , and repeated , there will in general be kinetic accumulations of stress ; the amount of this accumulation varies with the times of incidence and of release of the load , but it may easily exceed the double of the stress due to the statical application of the load .
( / \gt ; .
) Wohler 's empirical laws must either be considered as allowing for this kinetic accumulation , or not .
If they do not allow for it , but are based merely on the assumption of a statical load gradually applied and gradually removed , then they do not cover an immense range of repeated loading which occurs in practice .
If they do allow for it , then the conception of the material being worn out by a maximum stress lower than the elastic limit is a false one , for the explanation of the destruction of the material lies in the kinetic accumulation of a much greater stress .
Messrs. W. R. Dunstan and T. A. Henry .
( c. ) The solution of the problem in both the cases of long shafts and short axles depends upon the discovery of a series of discontinuous functions .
These functions would appear to have considerable interest for the mathematician .
Like functions first appear , I think , , in a paper by Boussinesq , * and they offer an alternative to the usual solution of problems in vibration by Fourier 's series .
The latter in such cases often give easy analytical expressions , which , however , may be almost useless foi the purposes of numerical calculation owing to the slowness of their convergence .
In the course of the paper the numeriea ] solution by the use of discontinuous functions , is compared for one case with the solution obtained by a Fourier 's series , A verification of the work is thus obtained , and the advantages of the novel functions illustrated .
( d. ) There are many points in the memoir which suggest possibilities for physical research , and it seems to me that both from the purely scientific and the engineering sides a well-devised series of experiments on continuously and on abruptly varying torsional loads would lead to results of much interest and practical value .
The memoir endeavours to complete as fully for torsional loading the theory of a changing load as the latter has been completed for longitudinal and transverse loading by de Saint-Venant , Boussinesq , and Flammant .
The methods , analytical and graphical , are analogous , but the whole of the results , algebraic and numerical , are , I believe , novel , and apply to a series of cases which , if possible , have even greater practical importance .
" The " Mature and Origin of the Poison of Lotus Preliminary Notice .
" By Wyndham R Dunstan , M.A. , F.R.S. , Sec. C.S. , Director of the Scientific Department of the Imperial Institute , and T. A. Henry , B.Sc. Lond. , Salters ' Company 's Research Fellow .
Received dune 7 Read June 14 , 1900 .
Lotus Arabicus is a small leguminous plant resembling a vetch , with pink flowers , indigenous to Egypt and Northern Africa .
It grows abundantly in Nubia and is especially noticeable in the bed of the Nile from Luxor to Wady Haifa .
It is known to the natives as " Khuther , and old plants with ripe seed are used as fodder .
The dried plant is unusually green , and possesses the aroma of new-mown hay .
At \#166 ; * See c History of Elasticity 9 vol. 2 , arts .
401 , 402 .

