VI."Experimental Researches on Spontaneous Generation .
" By GILBERT W. CHILD , M.D. Oxon .
Communicated by Professor PHILLIPS .
Received May 26 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments are twenty in number , and were performed during the summer of 1863 .
The substances used were in ten experiments milk , and in ten , fragments of meat and water .
These were in all cases placed in a bulb of glass abouit 21 inches in diameter , and having two narrow and long necks .
The experiments are divided into five series of four experiments each .
In one series the bulbs were filled with air previously passed through a porcelain tube containing fragments of pumice-stone and heated to vivid redness in a furnace .
In the others they were filled respectively with carbonic acid , hydrogen , oxygen , and nitrogen gases .
In each series two experiments were made with milk , and two with meat ; and each substance was boiled in one case , and not boiled in the other .
The joints of the apparatus were formed either by means of non-vulcanized caoutchouc tubing , or india-rubber corks previously boiled in a solution of potash ; and in every case , at the end of the experiment , the necks of the bulb were sealed by the lamp .
The time of boiling such of the substances as were boiled varied from five to twenty minutes , and the boiling took place in the bulbs , and with the stream of gas or air still passing through .
The substances were always allowed to cool in the same stream of gas before the bulbs were sealed .
The microscopic examination of the contents of the bulbs took place at various times , from three to four months after their enclosure .
In every case but one in which the substance had not been boiled low organisms were found , apparently irrespective of the kind of gas in which they had to exist .
The case in which they were not seen was that of the meat enclosed in a bulb filled with nitrogen .
This bulb burst apparently spontaneously , and its doing so may be looked upon as a proof that in it also some change had taken place most likely connected with the development of organic life .
Where the substances had been boiled , the results were as follows ; 1 .
In the carbonic acid experiments , no sign of life .
2 .
In the hydrogen experiments , no sign of life .
3 .
In the heated air experiments , organisms found in both cases .
4 .
In the oxygen experiments , organisms found in the experiments with milk .
The bulb containing the oxygen and meat burst spontaneously , therefore probably contained org , anisms .
5 .
In the nitrogen experiments , organisms were found where meat was used .
None where milk was used .
No definite conclusion can be drawn from so limited a range of experiments ; but it is worthy of remark that organisms were found here under the precise circumstances in which M. Pasteur states that they cannot and do not exist .
The very abnormal conditions under which .
some of these so-called organisms are found , would render it doubtful whether Bacteriums , Vibrios , &amp;c. , ought to be considered as independent organisms in any higher sense than are white blood-corpuscles , pollen-grains , mucuscorpuscles , or spermatozoa .

