OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED BETWEEN 30TH Nov. 1862 AND 30TH Nov. 1863 .
ARTHUR CONNELL was the eldest soni of Sir John Connell , Judge of the Admiralty Court of Scotland and author of a well-known work on the law of Scotland respecting tithes .
He was born in Edinburgh on the 30th of November 1794 .
Having received his early education at the High School of that city , he ( in 1808 ) entered the University , where he studied under Playfair , Leslie , Dugald Stewart , and Hope .
Mr. Connell then became for a time a studenit in the University of Glasgow , and having there obtained a Snell Exhibition , he went to Balliol College , Oxford , in 1812 .
In 1817 he passed Advocate at the Scotch Bar , but never practised ; following a decided turn for science which had early shown itself , he devotedI himself to the pursuit of chemistry , which became his main occupation , and in 1840 he was appointed to the professorship of that scieilce in the University of St. Andrews .
In St. Andrews Mr. Connell continued to study and teach his favourite science till 1856 , when the fracture of a limb , and its effects upon a colnstitution already long enfeebled , completely incapacitated him for active duty .
Mr. Connell was chosen a Fellow of this Society at the annual electioni in 1855 ; from 1829 he had been a Fellow of the lloyal Society of Edinburgh , in whose ' Transactions ' or in the ' Edinburgh Philosophical Journal ' his various scientific memoirs and communications have appeared .
Most of his published researches belong to the province of mineral analysis , in which he justly attained a high reputation for skill and accuracy .
To him is due the merit of establishing several new mineral species , and of showing that in certain minerals baryta exists in combilnation with silicic acid ; and as an example of his nicety as an analyst , we may refer to his determination of the constitution of Greenockite from a si-ngle grain of that mineral .
But Mr. Coninell 's labours as a chemist were not confined to a single field of inquiry ; he was the author of valuable researches on voltaic decompositions , published in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh ; and he contrived an instrument for ascertaining the dew-point , which is superior in some respects to that generally used .
Mir .
Connell died on the 31st of October 1863 .
EIe was of a modest , retiring nature and gentle disposition .
To those who enjoyed his private friendship , it was well known that the merit he evinced as an earnest and faithful worker in science was but the manifestation , in that special direction , of the excellent qualities which beloniged to his natural character .
EDWARD JOSHUA COOPER , one of our most distinguished amateur astroniomers , received the first impulses which made him pursue that science from his mother 's early teaching , and from his visits to the Armagh Observatory while at the endowed school of that city .
Thence he passed to Eton , and from it to Christ Chureh , Oxford , where it may be feared that in , those days he met little encouragement in his favourite pursuit .
After leaving Oxford he travelled extensively , with a sextant , chronometer , and telescope as his inseparable companions .
While at Naples in 1820 he met Sir William Drummond , some of whose wild inferences from the Dendera Zodiac he showed to be inconsistent with sound astronomy .
Sir William replied that these objections were based on the inaccuracy of the existing drawings ; and Mr. Cooper met that by going to Egypt , securing the services of an accomplished Italian artist , and bringing home correct plans of the Dendera ceiling , which , with many other drawings , he printed for private distribution under the title 'Egyptian Scenery .
' He thence visited Persia , Turkey , Germalny , and Scanidinavia as far as the North Cape , accumulating a great mass of observations of latitude and longitude , which unfortunately remain unpublished .
Shortly after his return to Ireland the death of his uncle placed him in possession of a large estate , and enabled him to carry out on a great scale the plan which he had formed of determining some portioni of the small stars which were in general neglected by the great observatories .
In the year 1831 he purchased , from Cauchoix of Paris , an object-glass of 13-3 inches aperture and 25 feet focus , the largest then existing , which in 1834 was mounted with perfect success at his maginificent mansion of Markree , on an equatorial constructed by Mr. Grubb of Dublin .
It is of cast iron ( the first application of that material to astronomical instruments ) , and stands in the open air , encircled by the buildings of a first-rate observatory , which contain , among other chefs-d'euvres , a finie meridian-circle by Ertel , with eight microscopes , and an 8-inch object-glass .
These instruments were at once applied to active work , in which he had a most able cooperator , his first assistant , Mr. A. Graham ; and the Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society and of the Royal Irish Academy ( of both which he was a member ) bear ample testimony of their diligence .
One result of their labours was the discovery of the planet Metis ; but his greatest work is his ' Catalogue of Ecliptic Stars .
' This ( which was published by aid from the Government grant placed at the disposal of the Royal Society , and which the Royal Irish Academy honoured with their Cunningham Medal ) contains upwards of 60,000 stars down to the 12th magnitude , of whiech very few had been previously observed .
The places are reduced to 1850 , and though only approximate , possess a sufficient degree of precision for the use to which they were destined .
Their probable error is + 2"-6 , both in right ascension and in declination .
The value of this Catalogue to future astronomers can scarcely be overrated , for maniy facts tend to show that much is to be learned by studying these minute stars .
As an instance , it may be stated that fifty stars of his own Catalogue and twenty-seven of others ' were found to have disappeared during the progress of the observations .
Many of these , no doubt , are variable ; many probably are unknown planets ; some perhaps have great proper motion .
But when shall we have such a survey of the whole sky as that of this comparatively small zone !
He promised a fifth volume , the materials for which are nearly complete , as is also the case with a set of star-charts , in which , besides all the stars actually observed , as many are inserted as could be interpolated by the eye .
It is much to be desired that these should not be lost to astronomy ; and all who love that science will express a hope that his representatives will complete a work which has done such honour to their name .
Mr. Cooper continued to observe almost up to his death , which occurred on April 23 , 1863 , shortly after that of his wife , to whom he was deeply attached .
The date of his electioni into the Royal Society is June 2 , 1853 .
He represented the county of Sligo in Parliament for many years , and was a kind and good landlord , making great exertions to educate and improve his numerous tenantry .
His personal qualities were of a high order , blameless and fascinating in private life , a sincere Christianl , no mean poet , an accomplished painter and linguist , an exquisite musician , and possessing a wide and varied range of general information .
JOSHUA FIELD was a member of a well-known firm of Civil Engineers at Lambeth .
The chief occupation of his life was mechanical engineering , and be had an important share in the improvements which have been made during his time in the construction of marine steam-engines .
Mr. Field was one of the founders of the Instituition of Civil Engineers , and one of its earliest Vice-Presidents .
In 1848 he was elected President , on which occasion he , in his inaugural address , gave a sketch of the progress of improvement in steam navigation .
He became a Member of the Royal Society in 1836 .
His death took place on the 11th of August 1863 , at the age of 76 .
RICHARD FOWLER , M.D. , the oldest Fellow of the Royal Society , died at his residence , Milford , near Salisbury , April 13 , 1863 , in his 98th year .
He was born in London , November 28 , 1765 , and at an early age was so feeble in health , that it was thought necessary to send him to reside with a relation in Staifordshire .
He was thence sent to Edinburgh for his education .
While yet a youth he was enitered for the medical profession , and while pursuing his studies he eagerly embraced the opportunity of attending the lectures on Moral and Political Philosophy of Dugald Stewart , to whose influenice he ever afterwards referred with gratitude .
From Edinburgh he proceeded to Paris , at a time when Louis XVI .
, Marie Antoinette , and the Dauphin were yet to be seen in their regal state ; and Dr. Fowler was fond of telling how he saw them thus , and also of having exchanged greetings with Talleyrand while yet the young and courtly Bishop of Autun .
He remainied long enough in Paris to witniess much of the strife of the first French Revolution .
Ie was personally acquainted with Mirabeau , and often listened to his eloquence in the National Assembly .
On his return to Edinburgh he was admitted , in Nov. 1790 , a Member of the Speculative Society of that city , which had been founded in 1764 , and has numbered among its members some of the most eminent men of Great Britain .
Dr. Fowler was an active member , and brought forward questionis on politics and social economy for discussion .
He early adopted the Liberal side in politics , and that of complete toleration in religion , and throughout his long career he was a steady supporter of Liberal principles .
In 1793 he published a work entitled 'Experiments and Observationls relative to the influence lately discovered by M. Galvani , and commonly called Animal Electricity .
' The work consists of 176 pages , and containis an account of nuumerous experiments with different metals on frogs , the earthworm , the hearts of cats and rabbits , &amp;c. The work also containis a letter from Professor Robisoln giviln , an accounlt of some experiments with dissinmilar metals .
Dr. Fowler took his medical degree at the Ulliversity of Edinburgh , Sept. 12 , 1793 ; he was admitted Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of Lonidonl in March 1796 , about which time he settled at Salisbury , and was elected Physiciail to the Infirmary of that city , anl office which he filled during forty years ; after which he continued to be one of its consulting physicians to the time of his death .
In 1802 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society .
In 1805 he married the daughter of WXilliam Bowles , Esq. , of Heal Hlouse .
le had an extensive medical practice during many years , and a still more extensive acquaintance with the leading mnen of the day , for which he was partly inidebted to his early frienidship with the Marquis of Lansdownle ald Lord Hollalnd , and also to his own social qualities and conversational powers , the latter being enlivened by anecdote , apt quotation , and varied knowledge , which enabled him to say sometbing agreeably and well on almost every subject ; at the same timie his kinidly nature mellowed and improved everything he said and did .
In 1]831 he became a Member of the British Association , and during a number of years made frequent communications to it on subjects in menital philosophy and their relationl to physiology .
The last communiicationi was in 1859 , when Dr. Fowler , then in his 94th year , made the journey to Aberdeen for the purpose of beig present at the Congress .
IHe took great initerest in the mental conaditionl of the deaf , dumb , and blind , and was folnd of inquiring how it was that persons so afflicted displayed a higher initelligenlce thal that of the Tnost sagacious of the lower ainimals , and how by touch alone the meaning of others can be communicated to the blind and deaf , and instantly initerpreted .
During the later years of his life , Dr. Fowler was himself afflicted with loss of sight .
Indeed , in his work published in 1793 , he comnplains ( page 76 ) that the weak state of his eyes did not permit him to look intently at minute objects .
Nevertheless his mental activity was so great , that when he could no longer see to read he kept employed two menl and two boys in reading to him , and wri ; ing downl from his dictationi miemoranda for future papers .
One of his latast acts , in conjunietion with Mrs. Fowler , was to purchase and endow a suitable home for the Salisbury and South Wiltshire Museum , in which he took a great interest , and bestowed on it a large portion of his books and collections .
Dr. Fowler was also a Fellow of the Antiquarian Society , and a member of the Zoolog'ical Society , and of the Edinburgh Medical and Speculative Societies .
PETER Rt-IARDY ( born Dec. 17 , 1813 , died A1pril 23 , 1863 ) was the son of an officer in the artillery , and the brother of Mr. T. Duffus Hiardy of the Record Office and Mr. William H1ardy of the Duchy of Lancaster .
I-He was educated for an actuary , was placed in the Equitable Office in 1829 , was appointed actuary of the Mutual Assurance Office in 1837 , and of the London Assurance Office in 1850 .
The details of his professional life , active and well employed as it was , offer nothing to record .
Ile distinguished himself in 1839 by the publication of a sound mathematical work on interest , containing tables subdivided inito quarter rates per cent. In 1840 he published a system of notation for life contingencies , which , besides its ingenuity , was of a practicable character .
In 1848 he was one of the founders of the Institute of Actuaries .
HIe was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1839 , immediately after the publicationi of his first work .
Mr. Peter Hardy possessed that talent for research which has contributed to render both his brothers eminent in their several walks of life .
His walk , itndeed , did not offer any opportuynities ; but the taste found vent iri the collection of old books and the stuidy of early printing .
In this he would have been eminent , had it been anything but an employment of leisure .
IHis library , very large for that of an actuary , contained rare specimens , of which he kniew the history and the literary value .
JOHN TAYLOR was born at Norwich , on the 22nid of August 1779 , and died in London on the 5th of April 1863 .
He was the eldest of five brothers belonging to a well-known and respected family ina his native city .
In early youth Mr. Taylor showed a natural turn for mechanical contrivance , and a decided bent towards the profession of an enigineer ; but as his native district afforded but little scope for engineering work , he was brought up to land-sturveying , as the employmenit within reach which seemed to fall in most nearly with his natural taste .
From this occupation , however , he was called off at the early age of nineteen , to take the management of the Wheal Friendship Mine in Cornwall .
Inexperienced as he then was in all that specially concerned mining work , he was , nevertheless , appointed to that charge , in reliance on his ability to master the task he was to undertake , and on his diligence and integrity in the performance of it .
Soon after he became thus enuaged , Mr. Taylor published , in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' ( for 1800 ) , an article " ; On the Iistory of Mining in Devon and Cornwall ; " and in suLeceeding years he communicated to the world , in that and other journals , the results of his experience concerning the operations and processes followed in mining , and the means of improving them , and on the general economy of mines .
But whilst his daily occutpation was in directing practical work , it was Mr. Taylor 's conistant aim to elevate the art of mining and place it on a scientific basis .
With this purpose he ( in 1829 ) undertook the editorship , and , to a considerable extent , the cost of a publication which he hoped 9voldd conduce to the end in view .
This work , which was entitled ' Records of Mining , ' did not meet with the support he had looked for , and was not continued ; but the part published contains four contributions from his own pen .
One of these , which deserves especial notice , is an excellent and well-digested paper , in which he advocates the establishment of a School of Mines in Cornwall , and presents a " Prospectus , " setting forth the details of a plan for the foundation , government , and mainrtenance of an institution of that kind , and for regulation of the instruction it should afford .
This proposal did not meet with encouragement at the time , but the establishment of the present School of Mines , although he had no active share in it , may be traced to Mr. Taylor 's earnest and judicious representations .
In 1812 Mr. Taylor settled in London , and engaged with his brother in a chemical manufactory at Stratford in Essex ; btnt although he had long applied himself to chemistry as a scientific pursuit , and attained a high reputation as a metallurgic chemist , he was compelled to relinquish it as a profession in consequence of the increased extent and importance of his mining business .
Throughout his eminently practical life Mr. Taylor strove constantly to maintain a healthy reciprocity between science and practice ; and while availing himself of his scientific knowledge for the improvement of technical processes , he was no less earniest in turning to account his experience and opportunities as a mining engineer and metallurgist for the promotion of the sciences of geology , mineralogy , and chemistry .
We accordingly find his name enrolled as a member of various scientific bodies , both British and Foreign .
He was one of the earliest Fellows of the Geological Society , and from 1816 to 1844 fill6d the office of its Treasurer .
In 1825 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society , and repeatedly served on the Council .
But of the several Societies to which he belonged , the British Association for the Advancement of Science has been the most indebted to Mr. Taylor 's useful cooperationi , both scientific and administrative .
He was , indeed , present at its birth , and the first meeting of its first Council was held at his house .
This was on the 26th of June 1832 .
He was also the first Treasurer , and held that office till September 1861 , when the infirmities of age constrained him to retire from it .
On relieving him from the duties he had so long auid so well discharged , the Counicil of the Association joined in a unanimous expression of respect for his character and gratitude for his long and valuable services to the cause of science .
The Council of University College , London , expressed themselves in no less respectful and grateful terms when , for the same reason , he retired from the Treasurership of that Institution , which he had held for many years .
WILLIAM TOOK was born on the 22nd of November 1 777 , at St. Petersburg , where his father was then Chaplain to the factory of the Russian Company .
Mr. Took was a solicitor by profession , but amidst the calls of business he was able to devote much time and attention to public affairs , and took part in the formation of various public institutions which were established during the active period of his life .
He was long a leading member and Vice-President of the Society of Arts , and was elected President on the vacancy caused by the death of His Royal Highness the Prince Consort .
His election to the Royal Society was in 1818 .
From 1832 to 1837 he sat in Parliament for the borough of rTruro .
Besides a compilation on French history , in two volumes , which appeared in 1855 , and occasional contributions to magazines , Mr. Took , when a young man , published , anonymously , an edition of Churchill 's Poems , with notes and a Life of the Author , which was favourably reviewed by Southey .
He died in London on the 20th September 1863 .
Rear-Admiral JOHN WASHINGTON was borni on the 1st of January 1801 .
He entered the Navy in 1812 , on board the 'Juno , ' fitting for the American station , where he served for the next two years , and took part in various active and successful operationis against the enemy .
In i 814 he returned to England , and entered the Royal Naval College at Portsmouth .
During the two years he spent as a student in that Institution he applied himself diligently to the scientific study of his profession , and laid the foundation of that skill and accomplishment which he afterwards attained in nautical surveving and hydrography , and through which in the after course of his life he was able to render much valuable service to the maritime interests of this and other countries .
After serving at sea for some years , and rising to the rank of Commander , he returned home for a time , but in 1841 he was appointed to continue the Survey of the North Sea , in which duty he was employed until the close of 1844 .
In 1842 he was promoted to the rank of Post Captain .
This Survey was Captain Washington 's last service afloat ; but his experience and judgment were turned to public account at different times , when he acted as a Royal Coynmissioner on important questions affecting the interests of navigation and of our maritime industry .
In 1853 he visited some of the Russiaxn fortresses in the Baltic , and the results of his observations proved of the greatest value in the conduct of the warlike operations which soon followed .
On the retirement of Sir Francis Beaufort , Captain Washington was appointed Hydrographer to the Admiralty , and was promoted to the rank of Rear-Admiral in 1862 .
His anxious and unremitting application to the various duties of his office is believed by his friends to have shortened his valuable life , which was closed at Frascati , near Havre , on the 16th of September 1863 .
He was a member of various learned Societies at home and abroad , and was Secretary of the Royal Geographical Society from 1835 to 1841 .
His election into the Royal Society is dated February 13 , 1845 .
C'ISAR MANSUiTE DESPRETZ was born at Lessines in Belgium , on the 13th of May 1789 .
At any early age he came to Paris for the purpose of devoting himself to the study of chemistry and physics .
His intelligence and industry sooni attracted the attention of Gaav-Lussac , who appointed him repetiteur of his course of lectures on Chemistry at the Ecole Polytechnique .
He became the Professor of Physics at the Sorboiune in 1837 , having previously held a similar office in the l cole Polytechniquie and the College Henri IV .
In 1822 the Academy awarded him the prize for the best memoir on the causes of animal heat .
In 1825 he published an elementary treatise on Physics , which in 1836 reached a fourth edition ; and in 1830 the Elements of Theoretical and Practical Chemistry .
lI-e was the author of numerous memoirs published in the ' Ainnales de Chimie ' and in the 'Comptes Rendus , ' dating from 1817 up to 1858 .
These memoirs give an account of researches on the specific heat and conductivity of metals and various mineral substances ; on the propagation of heat in liquids ; on the transmission of heat from one solid body to another ; on the heat absorbed in fusioni ; on the elastic force of vapours ; on the density and latent heat of vapours ; on the compressibility of liquids ; on the density of gas under different pressures ; on the displacement and oscillations of the freezing-point of the rmercurial thermometer ; on the heat developed during combustioni ; on the expansion of water , and the temperature at which water and salinie solutions attain a maximum density ; on the modifications which metals undergo under the joint action of heat and ammnoniacal gas ; on the chemical action of voltaic electricity , the light and heat of the voltaic arc , and the intensity of the voltaic current ; on the electricity developed by muscular contraction ; on chloride of boron ; on the decomposition of water , carbonic acid , and acetic acid ; on the decomposition of salts of lead ; on the limits of high and low musical notes ; on the fusion and volatilization of some refractory substances under the triple action of the voltaic battery , the sun , and the oxyhydrogeni blowpipe .
Though not successful in making any brilliant theoretical discoveries , the important scientific facts he has observed and arranged bring his name perpetually before the reader of any modern treatise on Physics .
lie laboired hard to fulfil to the utmost his duties as a Professor at the Sorbonne ; and his lectures , being carefully prepared and well illustrated by experiments , attracted a numerous auditory .
Hle was elected a Foreign Member of this Society in 1862 .
His character was upright and benevolent , his tastes simple , and his habits regular in the extreme .
It was his custom every year to make a long excursion in .
England , Germany , or Italy , byi himself , and without letting any one know the day of his departure from Paris .
His last illness was preceded by several slight attacks of cerebral congestion .
These were followed by congestion of the lungs , of which he died on the 15th of March 1863 .
EILIIARDT MITSCHERLICH was born on the 7th of January 1794 , in the village of Jever in Oldenburg .
His father was pastor of Neuende ; his uncle , the well-known philologer , was Professor in Gottingen .
I-le was educated at the Gymnasium of Jever , under the historian Schlosser .
Following the example of his uncle , and encouraged by Schlosser , he devoted himself to the study of history , philology , and especially the Persian language .
In order to prosecute these studies , he went in 18 11 to the University of Heidelberg , and in 1813 to Paris .
He had hoped to be allowed to accompany ann embassy to Persia , but was prevented by the fall of Napoleon .
In 1814 , on his return to Germanv , he commenced writing a history of the Ghurides and Kara-Chitayens , compiled from manuscripts in the G6ttingen Library , and of which a specimeni was published in 1815 under the title " Mirchondi historia Thaheridarum .
" Unwilling to renounce his favourite project of travelling in Persia , he determined to accomplish it without any extraneous assistance .
The only way in which it appeared possible to travel was in the character of a physician ; accordingly he resolved to study medicine .
He went to G6ttingen for this purpose , and first applied himself to the introductory sciences , especially to chemistry , which so fascinated him that he gave up philology and his intention to visit Persia .
In 1818 he went to Berlin for the purpose of obtaining license to lecture .
Link allowed him to carry on his researches in the laboratory of the University .
Here he undertook the examination of the phosphates and arseniates , and confirmed the accuracy of the latest conclusion arrived at by Berzelius , viz. that phosphoric and arsenic acid contain each five equivalents of oxygen , while phosphorous and arsenious acid contain three equivalents .
IHe noticed at the same time that the similarly constituted phosphates and arseniates crystallized in similar forms .
Up to this period he had never paid any especial attention to crystallography , but the conviction that he -was on the eve of a great discovery allowed him no rest ; he studied the laws of crystallography , learned the method of measuring the angles of crystals , and soon satisfied himself that the phosphates and arseniates are not merely similar but identical in form , and that , consequently , bodies exist of dissimilar composition having the same crystalline form , and that these bodies are compounds containing respectively the same number of equivalents .
Many minerals appeared to confirm this law , viz. the carbonates , dolomite , chalybite , diallogite and calcite , and the sulphates , baryte , celestine , andAnglesite .
In confirmation , however , of this discovery he considered it lnecessary to appeal to artificial salts which crystallize readily and distinctly , and are easily obtained of sufficient puirity , so that his conclusions might be confirmed by any one without difficulty .
The neutral sulphates of protoxide of iron , oxide of copper , oxide of zinc , and magnesia , which all contain water , mostly in different proportions , appeared peculiarly well fitted for this purpose .
He found that the following were similar in form : ( 1 ) sulphate of copper and sulphate of protoxide of manganese ; ( 2 ) sulpliate of protoxide of iron and sulphate of oxide of cobalt ; ( 3 ) sulphate of magnesia , suilphate of oxide of zinc , and sulphate of oxide of nickel .
He also found that the salts which had dissimilar forms contained a different number of equivalents of water , and that those which had similar forms contained the same number .
He then mixed the solutions of the different sulphates , and found that the resulting crystals had the form and the same number of equivalents of water as some onie of the unmixed sulphates .
Lastly , he examined the combinations of these sliphates with sulphate of potash , and showed that the double salts had all simrlilar forms beloinging to the oblique system , and that they were coimposed of one equivalent of the earthy or metallic sulphate , one equivalent of sulphate of potash , and six equivalents of water .
The memoir in which these observations are recorded was presented to the Berlini Academy oil the 9th of December 1819 .
In the course of the preceding August Berzelius came to Berlin , on his way from Paris to Stockholm .
Ile became acquainted with Mitscherlich , and conceived such an opinion of his talents , that he suggested him to the Minister Altenstein as the most fitting successor to Klaproth in the chair of Chemistry in the University of Berlin .
Altensteiii did not at the moment act upon this suggestion , but consented to the proposal that Mitscherlich should perfect his chemical education by working for some time under the guidance of Berzelius .
In Stockholm he continued and extended his researches on the phosphates and arseniates , and wrote a memoir on the subject , which appeared in the Transactions of the Swedish Academv .
In it he described with great care the forms of the acid and neutral phosphates and arseniates of potash , soda , and ammonia , the neutral double salts of potash and soda , and of ammonia and soda , and the phosphates and arseniates of oxide of lead .
He showed in every case that the phosphates and arseniates have similar forms and analogous compositions .
Urged by Berzelius to give a namne to this newly detected property of the chemical elements , he designated it by the term isomorphism .
This discovery was of the highest im-portance to the theory of chemical equivalents , inasmuch as it explained the exceptions to the law of definite proportions in the mineral system of Berzelius .
It appeared moreover , from the crystallization of the mixtures of the different sulphates , that isomorphous substances combine in all proportions ; and that they replace one another in indefinite proportions in the composition of minerals was proved by Mitscherlich 's fellow-students , Heinrich Rose and Bonsdorif , in the cases of augite and amphibole .
The doctrine of isomorphism , moreover , was an admirable test of the determination of the equivalents of the different elements , whilst the smallness of the number iof changes in the equivalents of the simple substances that followed the discovery of isomorphism , is an indication of the admirable sagacity with which they had been determined by Berzelius .
Mineralogists and chemists had long beeni occupied with researches on the relation betweent chemical composition and crystalline form ; they had discovered a number of important facts bearing upon the subject , but no one had discovered the basis upon which the phenomena rested .
Fuchs had already observed that some of the constituents of a mineral might be replaced by others without any change of form , and had called these constituents vicarious , but by adducing the sesquioxide of iron and lime as vicarious constituents in Gehlenite , he showed that the true explanation had eluded his grasp .
Fuchs had moreover remarked the close resemblance of the mineral sulphates to orne another , as well as that of the rhombohedral carbonates .
He also showed that strontianite was not rhombohedral as Hauy supposed , but prismatic , and that it resembled Aragonite in form .
The small percentage of strontian detected in Aragonite by Stromeyer was regarded by Fuchs as the cause of the resemblance of the forms of the two minerals , as the very small quantity of carbonate , of lime in chalybite had been supposed the cause of its resemblance to calcite .
The only conclusion which Fuchs drew from the resemblances of these minerals was , that certain substances possess such an overpowering force of crystallization , that , even when present in small quantity , they constrain other substances to assume their form .
In November 1821 Mitscherlich returned to Berlin , was elected a Member of the Academy of Sciences and appointed Professor extraordinary in the University , and remained in that position till 1825 , when he became Professor in ordinary .
In the summer of 1822 he gave his first lecture on Chemistry to a large audience .
He also continued his researches oii isomorphism , and those which he had commenced in Stockholm , especially those which bore upon the artificial formation of minerals .
He exhibited to the Academy a collection of about forty crystallized substances , which he had found in the slag-heaps surrounding the copper-smelting furnaces of Fahlun during a visit he paid to that place in 1820 , in the company of Berzelius .
Of these , however , he described only two , a silicate of protoxide of iron isomorphous with olivine , and a mica , the composition of which approximates closely to that of a black mica of Siberia .
He resumed these researches along with Berthier in the winter of 1823 and 1824 , which he passed in Paris , and by fusing the mineral constituents together in proper proportions , succeeded in producing diopside , idocrase , and garnet .
In the course of his examination of the phosphates and arseniates he had observed that the acid phosphate of soda crystallizes in two totally different forms , both of which belong to the prismatic system , but cannot be referred to the same parameters .
From this he inferred that the ultimate atoms of crystallized bodies by change of circumstances may admit of a change in their arrangement , and hazarded the opinion that , as Aragonite resembles strontianite and cerussite in form , and calcite resembles dolomite , chalybite , and diallogite , it is possiblo for the substances isomorphous with Aragonite to crystallize in the form of calcite , and the substances isomorphous with calcite to crystallize in the form of Aragonite , and so greatly enilarge each group of isomorphous bodies .
This opinion was looked upon with great distrust by chemists and mineralogists .
All the examples he had brought forward were taken from compounid bodies , which possibly might have containied admixtures which analysis had failed to detect , and the substances assumed to have the same composition might after all be different .
These doubts were suggested by the analyses of Aragoniite , which had been pronouniced by some of the most eminent chemists of the time to be pure carbonate of lime ; them Stromeyer detected strontia in it , which , notwithstanding that its amount was very small , and different in Aragonite from different localities , was immediately regarded as the cause of the difference of its form from that of calcite ; lastly , Buchholtz proved the existence of a variety of Aragonite absolutely free from any admixture of strontia , to which , therefore , the difference of form could not by any possibility be due .
At this conijuncture Mitscherlich made the remarkable discovery that sulphur also takes different forms under different circumstances .
The crystals obtained from solutions belong to the prismatic system , and are identical in form with those which occur in nature ; but when sulphur is fused and allowed to cool , with proper management distinct crystals are obtained , but they are entirely different from the former , inasmuch as they belorng to the oblique system .
This observation was of great importance , because sulphur being a simple substance crystallizable at pleasure in either of its two forms , the difference of form could not be attributed to a differenec of composition .
He had already proved that the acid phosphate of soda and carbonate of lime possessed the same property of crystallization in two different forms , which he niow considered as appertairning to all simple substances and their chemnical combinationls , and to which he gave the name of dinorphiym .
ie regarded it , moreover , as affording an explanation of the fact that bodies possessing analogous chemical constitutions are not always isomorphous .
The memoir on the dimorphism of sulphur was presented to the Academy on the 26th of July 1826 .
It was found that the forms of isomorphous substances are not absoluitelv identical , except , of course , when they belonlg to the cubic system , but exhibit some differences , showing that the chemical nature of the substance is not altogether without influenice on the form .
In order to determinie the difference betweeni the angles of isomorphous bodies with greater accuracy than was attainable by the use of the ordinary Wollaston 's goniometer , he caused a gorjiometer to be constructed by Pistor , provided with four verniers , each reading to I 0 " , and with a telescope magnifying twenty times for viewing the reflexions of the signal in the faces of the crystal .
With this instrumenit , in the summer of 1823 be began to measure the angles of calcite from Iceland , and was surprised to find differences in the angle between the same pair of cleavages amounting to 20"f , a difference which , though small , was too large to be attributed to errors of pointing or reading .
The observations were made in the morning and in the'afternoon in a room facing the south .
The morrning observations differed from those made in the afternooni , but the observations made at the same period of the day agreed well with one another ; also the temperature of the room in the afternoon was nearly 40 C. higher than in the morning .
He therefore concluded that the variation of the angle could-only be due to the uniequal expansion of the crystal in differenit directionis .
HIe increased the difference of temperature by immersing the crystal in a bath of heated mercury , and founid that the cleavages became more nearly at right angles to one another , by 8 ' 3411 , for an increase of temperatuire of 1000 C. In dolomite from Traversella , Breunnerite from Pfitsch , chalybite from Ehrenfriedersdorff similar cbanges occurred amounting to 4t 6il , 31 2911 , and 2 ' 22 " respectively , for a bhange of temperature of 1000 C. A large number of other crystals examined by hiim afforded like results .
In the winter of 1823-1824 , during his stay in Paris , he measured the expansion of calcite in volume by iDulong 's miethod , and found it equal to 0 001961 for 100 ' C. HIence it appears that by an inicrease of temperature of 1000 C. the crystal expands 0 00288 in the direction of its axis , and contracts 0 00056 in a direction at right angles to its axis .
IHe confirmed the accuracy of this most unexpected result by comparing , at different temperatures , the thicknesses of two plates of calcite of nearly equtal thickness , bounded by planes parallel and at right angles to the axis respectively , and the thickness of a plate bounded by planes parallel to the axis with that of a plate of glass of nearly the same thickness , the expansion of which was known .
IHis memoir on this important discovery was presented to the Academy on the IOth of March 1825 .
The large goniometer which he employed in these observations being too cumbersome , and also too costly to be used by mnineralogists il measLiring the angles of crystals , he conitrived anl inistrument more convenient for ordinary use , reading to half a mniniute , and provided with a telescope having a magnifying power of not more than three .
The signal consists of cross wires in the focus of a collimator , as in the goniometers of IRudberg and Babinet .
The adjulstment of the crystal is effected by a very ingenious contrivanice due to M. Oertling , by whom many of these instruments have been constructed .
By the invention of this goniometer , which has come inito general use under the name of Mitscherlich 's goniometer , he conferred a great boon on mineralogists .
A minute description of it appeared in the Memoirs of the Berlin Academy for 1843 , a considerable time after it was originally contrived , and not till its value had been tested by long use .
Of his observations oin the effect of heat on the double refraction of crystals , little is known beyond a notice in Poggendorff 's ' Annalen ' of the remarkable changes which occur in gypsum when heated .
At the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere the optic axs lie in a plane at right anlgles to the plane of symmetry , and make angles of about 60 ?
with a normal to the plane of symmetry .
On warming the crystal the optic axes approach the plane of symmetry , and at about 920 C. they coincide , exhibiting the phenomena of a uniaxal crystal , and on further increasing the temperature they open out in the plane of symmetry .
In 1827 Mitscherlich discovered selenic acid , and the isomorphism of seleniate of potash with sulphate of potash , and afterwards of other seleniates with the coairesponding sulphates .
In 1830 he observed the isomorphism of manganate of potash with sulphate of potash .
This led him to a further examination of manganese , and to the discovery of the isomorphism of the permanganates with the perchlorates , and to the isolation of the hydrate of permanganic acid .
At a later period ( 1860 ) he repeated , by new and more accurate methods , the analysis of permanganate of potash , which had been called in question , confirming the exactness of the earlier analysis ; he succeeded at the same time in isolating the anhydrous permanganic acid .
The crystallographic researches he carried on about the time of the discovery of the new acids were extremely numerous , yet very little has been made knowii respecting them .
He prepared a large number of salts in his laboratory , determined the systems to which they belonged , measured some of the angles , and drew by hand the figures of their principal combinations .
But this , though it satisfied his own curiosity , was manifestly insufficient for publication , and the new discoveries that presented themselves were much more attractive than the wearisome and time-consuming task of preparing his researchles for the press .
He made , however , an attempt to carry out his intention of describing the forms of the most important simple and compound bodies .
He commenced with the sulphates , seleniates , and chromates , because these salts present almost all the phenomena on which the laws of crystalline form and chemical composition are founided .
He described the sulphates and selenliates of soda and of oxide of silver ; the sulphate , seleniate , and chromate of oxide of silver and ammonia ; the sulphate and seleniate of oxile of nickel , and the seleniate of oxide of zinc ; the anhydrous and hydrous chloride of sodium ; iodide of sodium and bromide of sodium ; sulphate , seleniate , and chromate of potash , and sulphate of ammonia .
Unfortunately these were his last regular contributions to crystallographic chemistry .
Long afterwards he described the forms of the chloride and iodide of mercury , the latter of which is dimorphous , and the forms of phosphorus , iodine , and selenium crystallized from solution in bisulphide of carbon , which proved to be in an isomeric state differing in density from fused selenium .
In 1833 his crystallographic labours were interrupted by the publication of his ' Treatise on Chemistry .
' For this work he had been long preparing himself by original researches , by associating with the most eminent chemists of Europe , by visiting their laboratories , and the most important chemical manufactures and smelting-furnaces .
A large numlber of original observations of his own are embodied in this work , which had never appeared in any scientific journal .
A fifth edition was commenced in 1855 , but left unfinished .
In this year he commeniced his important labours on the density of the vapour of bromine , sulphur , phosphorus , arseniic , and mercury , nitrous acid , nitric acid , sulphuric acid , &amp;c. , and on the relation of the density of vapours to their chemical equivalents .
In the samrle year he commenced his researches on benzoyl , which suggested to him a simple theory of the constitution of those organic combinations in which compound radicals are assumed to exist .
His experiments on the formation of ether led him to the doctrine of chemical combinations and decompositions by contact , whereby dormant affinities in mixtures , or compounds held together by feeble affinities , become active by mere contact with a substance chemically inactive .
These labours in the domain of organic chemistry wholly occupied him for nearly twelve years .
At the conclusion of this period he turned his attention to geology .
Indeed , ever since he had engaged in researches on the artificial productionl of minerals , he used to theorize on the formationi of rocks , and on the existence of mineral springs and volcanos .
In his earlier travels , while his main object was the examination of chemical manufactures and smeltingfurnaces , his attention was also directed to the geology of the countries through which he passed .
He frequently devoted the concluding lectures of each half-year 's course to a sketch of the geological structure of the earth , and the changes which its surface had undergone .
Year after year he made systematic journeys in the Eifel , with the intention of publishing a complete description of the extinct volcanos of that district , and connecting it with a theory of volcanic action .
And , as the study of this region made a comparison with the volcanos of other countries desirable , he visited in succession the principal volcanic districts of Italy , France , and Germany .
But , notwithstanding all this preparation , the description of the Eifel was never printed , with the exception of some pages distributed among the hearers of lectures of a popular character giveni by hinm in the winter of 1838 and 1839 .
In these he states the views of the nature of volcanic processes which he then entertained .
They appear to have been founded on a very careful study of volcanic phenomena .
He supposes the explosive action to be caused by the vapour of water .
The only hypothesis , however , by which the presence of water in an active volcano could at that time be accounted for , was beset by serious difficulties .
These have since been removed by the beautiful experiment made by Daubre'e , which shows that when one side of a stratum of porous rock is heated , water in contact with the opposite side makes its way through it , in the direction of the heated part , notwithstanding the high pressure of the vapour generated on that side .
DuriTng the autumnal vacation of 1861 he made his last geological excursion in the Eifel ; in December of that year he begani to suffer from disease of the heart , the complaint increased in severity in the summer of 1862 , and he had much difficuilty in completing his course of lectures .
In the autumn of this year he went again to the Rhine , but only to stay in a country-house near Bonn , the home of his soln-in-law , Professor Busch .
Here his health appeared to revive , and he returned to Berlin feeling so much better that he commnenced his winter lectures ; a fortniight before Christmas , however , he was obliged to give them up , never again to be resumed .
In the spring of 1863 he retired to a couuntry-house at Sch6neberg , near Berlin , and hiere , on the morning of the 28th of August , his valuable life was closed by a painless death .
1-is name will ever be cherished in the annals of that science which he had so greatly enriched .
Few philosophers have ever united such a versatility of genius with a mind so severely disciplinied , or who , possessing such a talent for observing , were able to deduce such important results from their observations .
He was member of probably every Academy in Europe .
He was elected Foreign Member of the Royal Society in 1828 ; the Royal Medal was awarded to him in 1829 , " 'for his Discoveries relating to the Laws of Crystallization , and the Properties of Crystals .
" In 1852 he was elected Foreign Associate of the French Institute , in the place of CErsted .
The greater part of the preceding unotice is extracted from an Address to the German Geological Society by Professor G. lRose , Mitscherlich 's successor as Presidenit of the Society .
CARL LUDWIG CHRISTIAN EthMKER was born on the 28th of May 1788 , at Neubrandenburg in Mecklenburg-Strelitz , in tne service of which State his father held an important position .
After a careful preparatory educationl at home , he was sent to the Gratne Kloster at Berlin , and later to the Engineering Academy of that place .
In 1807 he passed the Government examiination for qualification as an engineer and architect .
In consequence of the gloomy aspect of aflairs in Prussia after the peace of Tilsit , he endeavonred to establish himself in Hamburg ; but here also , finding no prospect of occupationi in , the profession he had adopted , he resolved in 1808 to go to uEigland with the intention of devoting himself to a seafaring life .
Accordinigly , in the 21st year of his age , he began the world anew , under the most infa vourable circumstances , in a strange coun1try , without friends , and entirely cut off from his home by the continlental blockade .
With an energy and strength of character peculiarly his own , he overcame the difficulties of his situation , and obtained an appointment as Midshipman in the NTavy of the East India Company .
Feeling dissatisfied with this service , he entered into that of the German house of Riicken in Loindon , and visited many parts of the world in their ships .
In 1811 or 1812 he outained admiission into the Royal Navy , and served during the latter part of the war on board various ships of the Mediterraniean fleet .
He was first appoinited to the ' Benbow ' ; afterwards he becaime Naval Instructor on board the ' Montague , ' Captain Peter HIeywood ( formerly of the Bounty ' ) , of whom he used to speak in terms of the greatest regard , as the most kind-hearted and excellent man he had ever known .
He was then transferred to the IAlbion , ' and on his passage out from England to join Sir Charles Penrose , fought at the battle of Algiers .
During a visit to Genoa Riimker became acquainted with the Baron v. Zach , to whom he submitted the results of various astronomical observations in order to obtain his opinion of their value .
The Baron soon discovered his talent for astronomy , encouraged him to cultivate that science , and aided him with his advice and the use of his astronomical library .
Riimker 's first observations , occultations , and the determination of the latitude and longitude of Malta , where he was stationed for a considerable time , were published in v. Zach 's ( Correspondence Astronomique .
' In 1817 , when the Fleet returned to England , he quitted the Naval Service and went to Hamburg , carrying with him the friendship and esteem of his comrades of all ranks , which he had won by his ability and energy , combined with a peculiar suavity of manner .
HIere he was appointed Principal of the School of Navigation .
In the society of Schumacher , the Director of the Observatory of Altona , Repsold , andWoltmann , his taste for astrono-my was strengthened , and he found many opportunities of extending his knowledge of the subject .
As at that time Hamburg did not possess an Observatory , he built one at his own expense on the Stintfang .
In 1821 he resigned his post at the School of Navigation in order to accompany Sir Thomas Brisbane , Governor of New South Wales , to whom he had been introduced by Captain Heywood , and to take charge of the Observatory which Sir Thomas purposed founding in that colony .
Riimker 's labours in the Observatory of Paramatta are well known to astronomers .
In 1822 he observed the first calculated reappearance of Eucke 's comet , which was invisible in Europe , and thereby first confirmed the shortness of its periodic time .
He afterwards observed and discovered many other comets , some of which were not seen in Europe .
He observed the sun in the solstices , made many observations with Kater 's pendulum , and determined the magnetic declination and inclination .
These and other observations were published in a separate volume of the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1830 .
His observations of the stars of the southern hemisphere are in part contained in the ' Brisbane Catalogue , ' and in the ' Preliminary Catalogue of Fixed Stars in the Southern Hemisphere , ' published by himself at Hamburg in 1832 .
In after years , however , he was never able to find leisure for continuing the work , and the greater part of the observations remain still unpublished .
In 1829 he returned to Europe to resume his post as Principal of the School of Navigation , and to undertake the Direction of the New Observatory built by the Senate of Hamburg .
He devoted himself with the most unwearied diligence to the duties of these two offices .
After nights passed in observing , he made his appearance at the School of Navigation at eight both in summer and winter , and renained there teaching for five and even seven hours , regardless of his failing health , which was unable to sustain so severe a trial .
Under his care the school attained an unexpected prosperity .
It produced the most distinguished sailors of the German merchant navy , and the teachers of almost all the Schools of Navigation on the coast of the North Sea have been his pupils .
The number of students , which at the time of his appointment to the school was only 60 , amounted to 250 in 1857 .
He possessed in an unusual degree the art of teaching .
By the clearness of his methods , and a singular patience and mildness which encouraged the self-respect of his pupils and gained their confidence , and especially by his power of adapting his teaching to the comprehension of each individual , he succeeded in preparing the most uncultivated sailor for the examination in niavigation often in a surprisingly short time , so as to enable him to pass it with credit .
His 'Handbook of Navigation , ' which appeared in 1843 , and has gonie through three large editions , is used as a text-book in most of the Schools of Navigation on the shores of the North Sea , in Austria , and in Russia .
He devoted himself with equal or even still greater energy to his duties in the Observatory .
The principal instruments consisted of an equatorially mounited refractor of 5-feet focal length by Fraunhofer , and a meridian circle constructed by the brothers Repsold , which was mounted in 1836 .
The observations made with the refractor are published in Schumacher 's 'Astronomische Nachrichten , ' and in the Monthly Notices of the Astronomical Society .
With the meridian circle he undertook the determination of the places of all the fixed stars visible through its telescope , -a work of many years ' duration , the results of which he published in the years 1843-59 under the title of a Catalogue of 12,000 fixed stars , but in reality containing upwards of 15,000 .
In speaking of the observations made with the refractor , at the Anniversary Meeting of the Astronomical Society in 1854 , when the medal of the Society was awarded to M. Riimker , the Astronomer Royal , President of the Society , expressed himself in the following terms : " For a very long time M. Ruimker has been known as furnishing extrameridional observations of comets and newly discovered planets , possessing the highest degree of accuracy , and exteniding to times when the objects which he could successfully observe were lost to other astronomers furnished apparently with much more powerful means .
I have myself visited the observatory and inspected the instruments which have been devoted to these observations , and I have inquired , How is it that with instruments so insignificant you have been able to see so much more than others could see who are so much better equipped ?
The answer was very simple .
Energy , care , patience , in these , I believe , is contained the whole secret M. Riimker perhaps possesses in perfection the sensibility of eye and the acuteness of ear which are required for the most delicate observations ; but these powers , which might seem at first to be original gifts of nature , have , I do not doubt , acquired very much of their activity from their careful and energetic use .
" Adverting to the Catalogue of fixed stars , for which more especially the medal was bestowed , Mr. Airy observes , " Had this Catalogue proceeded from an observatory of which the personal establishment was charged with no other labotirs , we should have considered it as a highly meritorious work ... .
What , then , shall we say to this work in the circumstances under which it has reached us ?
It has come , the voluntary enterprise of an individual , who could not , by any construction of his connexion with the Hamburgh Observatory , be supposed to owe to the world a hundredth part of the labouir which it has cost .
It is the fruit of observations made in the watches of the night , and calculations made in the leisure hours of the day , by a person who would seem , to vulgar eyes , to be engrossed to the limits of human elndurance by an onerous professional office .
Well may we consider it as a remarkable instance of voluntary labour , undertaken under difficult circumstances , not for public display , but as an aid to science , and skilfully and steadily directed to that purpose alone .
" M. Ruimker was a Member of the Royal Academies of Munich and Gottingen , the Batavian Society of Rotterdam , the Royal Astronomical and many other English and Foreign learned Societies .
He was elected Foreign Member of the Royal Society in 1855 .
After having laboured long and profitably , repeated attacks of illness , accompanied by an asthmatic cough which increased in severity at each relapse , forced him at length ( in 1857 ) to rest from his labours , and to seek a milder climate for the benefit of his shattered health .
At his suggestion the care of the Navigation School was entrusted to M. Niebour , who had been his assistant for many years , and that of the Observatory to his only son , George Rumnker , at that time the Astronomer of the Durham Observatory , and now his successor as Director of the Observatory of Hamburg .
He had visited and been pleased with Lisbon during his earlier voyages , and was induced to select that place for his retreat .
There , after a residence of six years , tenderly watched over by his wife , a lady of English birth , and the discoverer of the comet VI of 1847 , retaining full possession of his faculties , he died on the 21 st of December 1862 .
Having served in the British Navy , and received the medal given to those who shared in the battle of Algiers , he was followed to the grave by officers of the British fleet in the Tagus , and by his German friends .
He lies buried in a spot chosen by himself , close to Fielding 's grave in the cemetery of the church of Estrella .
to the plane of symmetry , and make angles of about 60 ?
with a normal to the plane of symmetry .
On warming the crystal the optic axes approach the prane of symmetry , and at about 92 ?
C. they coincide , exhibiting the phenomena of a uniaxal crystal , and on further increasing the temperature they open out in the plane of symmetry .
In 1827 Mitscherlich discovered selenic acid , and the isomorphism of seleniate of potash with sulphate of potash , and afterwards of other seleniates with the corresponding sulphates .
In 1830 he observed the isomorphism of manganate of potash with sulphate of potash .
This led him to a further examination of manganese , and to the discovery of the isomorphism of the permanganates with the perchlorates , and to the isolation of the hydrate of permanganic acid .
At a later period ( 1860 ) he repeated , by new and more accurate methods , the analysis of permanganate of potash , which had been called in question , confirming the exactness of the earlier analysis ; he succeeded at the same time in isolating the anhydrous permanganic acid .
The crystallographic researches he carried on about the time of the discovery of the new acids were extremely numerous , yet very little has been made known respecting them .
He prepared a large number of salts in his laboratory , determined the systems to which they belonged , measured some of the angles , and drew by hand the figures of their principal combinations .
But this , though it satisfied his own curiosity , was manifestly insufficient for publication , and the new discoveries that presented themselves were much more attractive than the wearisome and time-consuming task of preparing his researches for the press .
He made , however , an attempt to carry out his intention of describing the forms of the most important simple and compound bodies .
He commenced with the sulphates , seleniates , and chromates , because these salts present almost all the phenomena on which the laws of crystalline form and chemical composition are founded .
He described the sulphates and seleniates of soda and of oxide of silver ; the sulphate , seleniate , and chromate of oxide of silver and ammonia ; the sulphate and seleniate of oxide of nickel , and the seleniate of oxide of zinc ; the anhydrous and hydrous chloride of sodium ; iodide of sodium and bromide of sodium ; sulphate , seleniate , and chromate of potash , and sulphate of ammonia .
Unfortunately these were his last regular contributions to crystallographic chemistry .
Long afterwards he described the forms of the chloride and iodide of mercury , the latter of which is dimorphous , and the forms of phosphorus , iodine , and selenium crystallized from solution in bisulphide of carbon , which proved to be in an isomeric state differing in density from fused selenium .
In 1833 his crystallographic labours were interrupted by the publication of his 'Treatise on Chemistry .
' For this work he had been long preparing himself by original researches , by associating with the most eminent chemists of Europe , by visiting their laboratories , and the most important chemical manufactures and smelting-furnaces .
A large number of original observations of his own are embodied in this work , which had never appeared in any scientific journal .
A fifth edition was commenced in 1855 , but left unfinished .
In this year he commenced his important labours on the density of the vapour of bromine , sulphur , phosphorus , arsenic , and mercury , nitrous acid , nitric acid , sulphuric acid , &amp;c. , and on the relation of the density of vapours to their chemical equivalents .
In the same year he commenced his researches on benzoyl , which suggested to him a simple theory of the constitution of those organic combinations in which compound radicals are assumed to exist .
His experiments on the formation of ether led him to the doctrine of chemical combinations and decompositions by contact , whereby dormant affinities in mixtures , or compounds held together by feeble affinities , become active by mere contact with a substance chemically inactive .
These labours in the domain of organic chemistry wholly occupied him for nearly twelve years .
At the conclusion of this period he turned his attention to geology .
Indeed , ever since he had engaged in researches on the artificial production of minerals , he used to theorize on the formation of rocks , and on the existence of mineral springs and volcanos .
In his earlier travels , while his main object was the examination of chemical manufactures and smeltingfurnaces , his attention was also directed to the geology of the countries through which he passed .
He frequently devoted the concluding lectures of each half-year 's course to a sketch of the geological structure of the earth , and the changes which its surface had undergone .
Year after year he made systematic journeys in the Eifel , with the intention of publishing a complete description of the extinct volcanos of that district , and connecting it with a theory of volcanic action .
And , as the study of this region made a comparison with the volcanos of other countries desirable , he visited in succession the principal volcanic districts of Italy , France , and Germany .
But , notwithstanding all this preparation , the description of the Eifel was never printed , with the exception of some pages distributed among the hearers of lectures of a popular character given by him in the winter of 1838 and 1839 .
In these he states the views of the nature of volcanic processes which he then entertained .
They appear to have been founded on a very careful study of volcanic phenomena .
He supposes the explosive action to be caused by the vapour of water .
The only hypothesis , however , by which the presence of water in an active volcano could at that time be accounted for , was beset by serious difficulties .
These have since been removed by the beautiful experiment made by Daubree , which shows that when one side of a stratum of porous rock is heated , water in contact with the opposite side makes its way through it , in the direction of the heated part , notwithstanding the high pressure of the vapour generated on that side .
During the autumnal vacation of 1861 he made his last geological excursion in the Eifel ; in December of that year he began to suffer from disease of the heart , the complaint increased in severity in the summer of 1862 , and he had much difficulty in completing his course of lectures .
In the autumn of this year he went again to the Rhine , but only to stay in a country-house near Bonn , the home of his son-in-law , Professor Busch .
Here his health appeared to revive , and he returned to Berlin feeling so much better that he commenced his winter lectures ; a fortnight before Christmas , however , he was obliged to give them up , never again to be resumed .
In the spring of 1863 he retired to a country-house at Sch6neberg , near Berlin , and here , on the morning of the 28th of August , his valuable life was closed by a painless death .
His name will ever be cherished in the annals of that science which he had so greatly enriched .
Few philosophers have ever united such a versatility of genius with a mind so severely disciplined , or who , possessing such a talent for observing , were able to deduce such important results from their observations .
He was member of probably every Academy in Europe .
He was elected Foreign Member of the Royal Society in 1828 ; the Royal Medal was awarded to him in 1829 , " for his Discoveries relating to the Laws of Crystallization , and the Properties of Crystals .
" In 1852 he was elected Foreign Associate of the French Institute , in the place of CErsted .
The greater part of the preceding notice is extracted from an Address to the German Geological Society by Professor G. Rose , Mitscherlich 's successor as President of the Society .
CARL LUDWIG CHRISTIAN TEhMKER was born on the 28th of May 1788 , at Neubrandenburg in Mecklenburg-Strelitz , in the service of which State his father held an important position .
After a careful preparatory education at home , he was sent to the Grate Kloster at Berlin , and later to the Engineering Academy of that place .
In 1807 he passed the Government examination for qualification as an engineer and architect .
In consequence of the gloomy aspect of affairs in Prussia after the peace of Tilsit , he endeavoured to establish himself in Hamburg ; but here also , finding no prospect of occupation in the profession he had adopted , he resolved in 1808 to go to England with the intention of devoting himself to a seafaring life .
Accordingly , in the 21st year of his age , he began the world anew , under the most unfavourable circumstances , in a strange country , without friends , and entirely cut off from his home by the continental blockade .
With an energy and strength of character peculiarly his own , he overcame the difficulties of his situation , and obtained an appointment as Midshipman in the Navy of the East India Company .
Feeling dissatisfied with this service , he entered into that of the German house of Rticken in London , and visited many parts of the world in their ships .
In 1811 or 1812 he obtained admission into the Royal Navy , and served during the latter part of the war on board various ships of the Mediterranean fleet .
He was first appointed to the ' Benbow ' ; afterwards he became Naval Instructor on board the ' Montague , ' Captain Peter Heywood ( formerly of the Bounty ' ) , of whom he used to speak in terms of the greatest regard , as the most kind-hearted and excellent man he had ever known .
He was then transferred to the 'Albion , ' and on his passage out from England to join Sir Charles Penrose , fought at the battle of Algiers .
During a visit to Genoa Riimker became acquainted with the Baron v. Zach , to whom he submitted the results of various astronomical observations in order to obtain his opinion of their value .
The Baron soon discovered his talent for astronomy , encouraged him to cultivate that science , and aided him with his advice and the use of his astronomical library .
Riimker 's first observations , occultations , and the determination of the latitude and longitude of Malta , where he was stationed for a considerable time , were published in v. Zach 's 'Correspondance Astronomique .
' In 1817 , when the Fleet returned to England , he quitted the Naval Service and went to Hamburg , carrying with him the friendship and esteem of his comrades of all ranks , which he had won by his ability and energy , combined with a peculiar suavity of manner .
Here he was appointed Principal of the School of Navigation .
In the society of Schumacher , the Director of the Observatory of Altona , Repsold , andWoltmann , his taste for astronomy was strengthened , and he found many opportunities of extending his knowledge of the subject .
As at that time Hamburg did not possess an Observatory , he built one at his own expense on the Stintfang .
In 1821 he resigned his post at the School of Navigation in order to accompany Sir Thomas Brisbane , Governor of New South Wales , to whom he had been introduced by Captain Heywood , and to take charge of the Observatory which Sir Thomas purposed founding in that colony .
Riimker 's labours in the Observatory of Paramatta are well known to astronomers .
In 1822 he observed the first calculated reappearance of Encke 's comet , which was invisible in Europe , and thereby first confirmed the shortness of its periodic time .
He afterwards observed and discovered many other comets , some of which were not seen in Europe .
He observed the sun in the solstices , made many observations with Kater 's pendulum , and determined the magnetic declination and inclination .
These and other observations were published in a separate volume of the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1830 .
His observations of the stars of the southern hemisphere are in part contained in the ' Brisbane Catalogue , ' and in the ' Preliminary Catalogue of Fixed Stars in the Southern Hemisphere , ' published by himself at Hamburg in 1832 .
In after years , however , he was never able to find leisure for continuing the work , and the greater part of the observations remain still unpublished .
In 1829 he returned to Europe to resume his post as Principal of the School of Navigation , and to undertake the Direction of the New Observatory built by the Senate of Hamburg .
He devoted himself with the most unwearied diligence to the duties of these two offices .
After nights passed in observing , he made his appearance at the School of Navigation at eight both in summer and winter , and remained there teaching for five and even seven hours , regardless of his failing health , which was unable to sustain so severe a trial .
Under his care the school attained an unexpected prosperity .
It produced the most distinguished sailors of the German merchant navy , and the teachers of almost all the Schools of Navigation on the coast of the North Sea have been his pupils .
The number of students , which at the time of his appointment to the school was only 60 , amounted to 250 in 1857 .
He possessed in an unusual degree the art of teaching .
By the clearness of his methods , and a singular patience and mildness which encouraged the self-respect of his pupils and gained their confidence , and especially by his power of adapting his teaching to the comprehension of each individual , he succeeded in preparing the most uncultivated sailor for the examination in navigation often in a surprisingly short time , so as to enable him to pass it with credit .
His 'Handbook of Navigation , ' which appeared in 1843 , and has gone through three large editions , is used as a text-book in most of the Schools of Navigation on the shores of the North Sea , in Austria , and in Russia .
He devoted himself with equal or even still greater energy to his duties in the Observatory .
The principal instruments consisted of an equatorially mounted refractor of 5-feet focal length by Fraunhofer , and a meridian circle constructed by the brothers Repsold , which was mounted in 1836 .
The observations made with the refractor are published in Schumacher 's 'Astronomische Nachrichten , ' and in the Monthly Notices of the Astronomical Society .
With the meridian circle he undertook the determination of the places of all the fixed stars visible through its telescope , -a work of many years ' duration , the results of which he published in the years 1843-59 under the title of a Catalogue of 12,000 fixed stars , but in reality containing upwards of 15,000 .
In speaking of the observations made with the refractor , at the Anniversary Meeting of the Astronomical Society in 1854 , when the medal of the Society was awarded to M. Riimker , the Astronomer Royal , President of the Society , expressed himself in the following terms:"For a very long time M. Riimker has been known as furnishing extrameridional observations of comets and newly discovered planets , possessing the highest degree of accuracy , and extending to times when the objects which he could successfully observe were lost to other astronomers furnished apparently with much more powerful means .
I have myself visited the observatory and inspected the instruments which have been devoted to these observations , and I have inquired , How is it that with instruments so insignificant you have been able to see so much more than others could see who are so much better equipped ?
The answer was very simple .
Energy , care , patience , in these , I believe , is contained the whole secret .
M. Riimker perhaps possesses in perfection the sensibility of eye and the acuteness of ear which are required for the most delicate observations ; but these powers , which might seem at first to be original gifts of nature , have , I do not doubt , acquired very much of their activity from their careful and energetic use .
" Adverting to the Catalogue of fixed stars , for which more especially the medal was bestowed , Mr. Airy observes , " Had this Catalogue proceeded from an observatory of which the personal establishment was charged with no other labotirs , we should have considered it as a highly meritorious work ... . .
What , then , shall we say to this work in the circumstances under which it has reached us ?
It has come , the voluntary enterprise of an individual , who could not , by any construction of his connexion with the Hamburgh Observatory , be supposed to owe to the world a hundredth part of the labour which it has cost .
It is the fruit of observations made in the watches of the night , and calculations made in the leisure hours of the day , by a person who would seem , to vulgar eyes , to be engrossed to the limits of human elldurance by an onerous professional office .
Well may we consider it as a remarkable instance of voluntary labour , undertaken under difficult circumstances , not for public display , but as an aid to science , and skilfully and steadily directed to that purpose alone .
" M. Riimker was a Member of the Royal Academies of Munich and Gottingen , the Batavian Society of Rotterdam , the Royal Astronomical and many other English and Foreign learned Societies .
He was elected Foreign Member of the Royal Society in 1855 .
After having laboured long and profitably , repeated attacks of illness , accompanied by an asthmatic cough which increased in severity at each relapse , forced him at length ( in 1857 ) to rest from his labours , and to seek a milder climate for the benefit of his shattered health .
At his suggestion the care of the Navigation School was entrusted to M. Niebour , who had been his assistant for many years , and that of the Observatory to his only son , George Riimker , at that time the Astronomer of the Durham Observatory , and now his successor as Director of the Observatory of Hamburg .
He had visited and been pleased with Lisbon during his earlier voyages , and was induced to select that place for his retreat .
There , after a residence of six years , tenderly watched over by his wife , a lady of English birth , and the discoverer of the comet VI of 1847 , retaining full possession of his faculties , he died on the 21 st of December 1862 .
Having served in the British Navy , and received the medal given to those who shared in the battle of Algiers , he was followed to the grave by officers of the British fleet in the Tagus , and by his German friends .
He lies buried in a spot chosen by himself , close to Fielding 's grave in the cemetery of the church of Estrella .

