5 .
The reading of a paper , entitled , " On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian bodies of the Kidney , with Observations on the Cir ?
culation through that Gland .
" By William Bowman , Esq. , F.R.S. , Demonstrator of Anatomy in King 's College , London , and Assistant Surgeon to the King 's College Hospital , was resumed and concluded .
The author describes the results of his examination of the structure and connexions of the Malpighian bodies of the kidney in different tribes of Vertebrata , and shows that they consist essentially of a small mass of vessels , contained within dilated extremities of the convoluted uriniferous tubes .
The tubes themselves consist of an outer transparent membrane ( termed by the author the basement membrane ) lined by epithelium .
This basement membrane , where it is expanded over the tuft of vessels , constitutes the capsule described by Miiller .
The epithelium lining the uriniferous tube is altered in its character where the tube is continuous with the cap ?
sule , being there more transparent , and furnished with cilia , which , in the frog , may be seen , for many hours after death , in very active motion , directing a current down the tube .
Farther within the cap ?
sule the epithelium is excessively delicate , and even , in many cases , absent .
The renal artery , with the exception of a few branches given off to the capsule , surrounding fat , and coats of the larger bloodvessels , divides itself into minute twigs , which are the afferent ves ?
sels of the Malpighian tufts .
After it has pierced the capsule , the twig dilates , and suddenly divides and subdivides itself into several minute branches , terminating in convoluted capillaries , which are collected in the form of a ball ; and from the interior of the ball the solitary efferent vessel emerges , passing out of the capsule by the side of the single afferent vessel .
This ball lies loose and bare in the capsule , being attached to it only by its afferent and efferent ves ?
sel ; and is divided into as many lobes as there are primary subdivisions of the afferent vessel ; and every vessel composing it is bare and uncovered , an arrangement of which the economy presents no other example .
The efferent vessels , on leaving the Malpighian bodies , enter separately the plexus of capillaries surrounding the uriniferous tubes , and supply that plexus with blood .
The blood of the vasa vasorum also probably enters this plexus .
The plexus itself lies on the outside of the tubes , on the deep surface of the membrane which furnishes the secretion ; and from it the renal vein arises by numerous radicles .
Thus the blood , in its course through the kidney , passes through two distinct systems of capillary vessels ; first , through that within the extremities of the uriniferous tubes ; and secondly , through that on the exterior of these tubes .
The author points out striking differences between these two systems .
He also describes collectively under the name of Portal System of the Kidney , all the solitary efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies , and compares them with the portal system of the liver ; both serving to convey blood between two capillary systems .
In the latter , a trunk is formed merely for the convenience of transport , the two systems it connects being far apart .
But a portion even of this has no venous trunk , viz. that furnished by the capillaries of the hepatic artery throughout the liver , which pour themselves either into the terminal branches of the portal vein , or else directly into the portal-hepatic capillary plexus .
On the other hand , in the kidney , the efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies , situated near the medullary cones , having to supply the plexus of the cones , which is at some little distance , are often large , and divide themselves after the manner of an artery .
They are portal veins in miniature .
In further eonfirmation of his view of the existence of a true portal system in the kidney of the higher orders of animals , where it has never hitherto been suspected , the author describes his observations on the circulation through the kidney of the Boa Constrictor , an animal which affords a good example of those in which portal blood derived from the hinder part of the body traverses the kidney .
He shows that here the Malpighian bodies are sup ?
plied , as elsewhere , by the artery , and that their efferent vessels are radicles of the vena portae within the organ , and join its branches as they are dividing to form the plexus surrounding the tubes ; thus corresponding with the hepatic origin of the great vena portae .
In other words , the vena portae is an appendage to the efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies , and aids them in supplying blood to the plexus of the tubes .
Thus in this variety of the kidney , as in the liver , there is an internal as well as an external origin of the portal system ; while in the kidney of the higher animals , this system has only an internal or renal origin , viz. that from the Malpighian bodies .
A detail of the results of injection by the arteries , veins and ducts is then given , and they are shown to accord with the preceding description .
Many varieties in the Malpighian bodies in different any ?
mals are also pointed out , especially as regards their size .
The author then proceeds to found on his previous observations , and on other grounds , a theory of a double function of the kidney .
He conceives that the aqueous portion of the secretion is furnished by the Malpighian bodies , and its characteristic proximate princi ?
ples by the walls of the tubes .
After giving in detail his reasons for entertaining this view , he concludes by referring to the striking analogy between the liver and kidney both in structure and function , and by expressing his belief , first , that diuretic medicines act specially on the Malpighian bodies , and that many substances , especially salts , which when taken into the system have a tendency to pass off by the kidneys with rapidity , in reality escape through the Malpighian bodies ; secondly , that certain morbid products occa ?
sionally found in the urine , such as sugar , albumen , and the red particles of the blood , also , in all probability , pass off through this bare system of capillaries .

