On a new Construction of a Condenser and Air-pump .
By the Rev. Gilbert Austin .
In a Letter to Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. Read March 11 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 138 .
] Mr. Austin 's object in constructing this apparatus was to impregnate fluids with any condensible gas by the aid of compression ; and for the sake of preserving them in a state of purity , every part was made , as far as possible , of glass .
The retort , in which the air is formed ; the reservoir , in which the supply is contained ; the straight tube , through which it is conveyed , and which serves as a piston ; the cylinder and barrel of the pump ; the receiver , containing the fluid to be impregnated ; and the valves that confine it , -are all made of glass , the only exception being the stuffing of the piston , for which he names various soft materials that may be advantageously employed .
For the sake of greater simplicity in the construction , all the parts are arranged in the same vertical line .
The reservoir at bottom , in which the air is first collected , is a large bell , with a perforation at the top , where it is connected with the glass rod , which serves as a piston .
These are firmly fixed in position ; for in this instrument , the condensation is effected by moving the barrel upon the piston , instead of having a fixed barrel with a moveable piston .
Accordingly , the receiver , which is attached to the upper extremity of the glass barrel , is carried up and down with it in effecting the condensation .
The great impediment to forming pneumatic instruments of glass appears to the author to have been the difficulty of making the joinm ings sufficiently firm to bear the necessary pressure , and at the same time capable of being easily disunited for the purpose of making any new arrangement of the parts ; for in both these respects , as well as in other points , the usual conical joints of glass are very objectionable .
In Mr. Austirn 's construction , all the parts are fitted together by plane surfaces , which have the advantage , not only of being easily formed , but of fitting each other in any order of combination in which it may be thought convenient to place them .
For this purpose , each part of the apparatus , where there is need of ajoint , is originally made by the glass-blower to terminate in a flat , thick , circular plate of glass of a given diameter , that is larger than the neck to which it is attached .
The flat terminations of all the parts being then ground perfectly plane , any two may be applied together , and clamped by a proper system of collars and screws , with the certainty of fitting , without regard to any inequality of the perforations in each , through which the communication between the vessels is thus established .
The clamps employed by the author for connecting his apparatus , consist of two flat circular collars of brass , just large enough to admit the circular flat flanches to pass through them , and a pair of mahogany collars of smaller dimensions , so as to fit the necks after they have been sawn in two .
The brass collars , having been first put upon each vessel , are prevented from returning by the interposition of the wooden collars , and are then screwed together by a suitable number of screws .
In rendering these joints perfectly secure , it is necessary to turn all the screws with nearly equal force ; and it may sometimes be expedient to moisten the surfaces of glass that are applied to each other when any great degree of condensation is required .
The tube through the piston terminates , at its upper extremity , in a small cup , which is the segment of a sphere , and contains a plane convex lens , ground to the same radius , and fitting so as to perform the office of a valve .
A similar valve is placed between the barrel and the receiver , and another as safety-valve at the top of the receiver , with a spring and screw to regulate the force of condensation that may be applied .
Since the motion of the barrel on the piston is required to be performed with extreme steadiness , it is firmly attached by strong collars to an iron sliding-bar , guided by a dove-tail groove of brass , fixed to an upright pillar that stands on the platform , to which the first reservoir and piston are attached , so as to avoid all possibility of lateral motion that might destroy the apparatus .
The author observes , that if the undermost vessel , instead of being open as a reservoir for air to be condensed in the uppermost , be closed at the bottom , it will be exhausted , so that the same instrument serves the purpose of an air-pump as well as a condenser .

