On a gaseous Compound of carbonic Oxide and Chlorine .
By John Davy , Esq. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Knt. LL. D. Sec. R.S. Read February 6 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 144 .
] Although it has been asserted by Messrs. Gay-Lussac and Thenard , and also by Mr. Murray , that carbonic acid and chlorine have no action upon each other , Mr. J. Davy has observed the contrary to be the case .
A mixture of equal parts of these gases , previously dried over mercury , being exposed to bright sunshine for about one quarter of an hour , lost all colour of the chloric gas , and were found condensed into half their former volume .
The smell of this gas was more suffocating than that of chlorine .
It occasioned a very painful sensation in the eyes ; it reddened litmus paper ; it combined with ammonia , forming a salt perfectly neutral and dry , but deliquescent by attracting moisture from the atmosphere .
This salt was decomposed by sulphuric , nitric , and phosphoric acids , and also by liquid muriatic acid ; but sublimed unaltered , in carbonic , sulphureouq , and muriatic acid gases .
In those instances where the salt was decomposed , the products were carbonic and muriatic acid gases .
It is remarkable , that in the formation of this ammoniacal salt , the new gas combines with as much as four times its bulk of ammoniacal gas .
Tin , zinc , antimony , or arsenic , heated in this gas , combine with the chlorine , forming the usual compounds , and extricate carbonic oxide .
The decomposition thus effected is completed in a few minutes , but without explosion or ignition .
Nor was even the action of potassium violent , although the decomposition was more complete ; since the carbonic oxide itself was decomposed , and carbon deposited .
When the white oxide of zinc was employed instead of the metal , the gas that remained was found to be carbonic acid .
Sulphur or phosphorus might be sublimed in this gas without effecting any change upon it .
Neither did hydrogen or oxygen singly produce any effect by means of the electric spark ; but when both were mixed in due proportion of two parts hydrogen with one oxygen to two of the gas , an explosion took place , with the formation of muriatic acid and carbonic acid .
The power of this gas as an acid is such as to decompound dry subcarbonate of ammonia ; and its power of saturation is so remarkable , that the quantity of ammonia , which was not saturated by two measures of carbonic acid , became fully saturated by only one measure of the new gas , which had extricated those two measures .
For the formation of this gas , it is absolutely necessary that its constituents should be in a state of perfect dryness , otherwise it will be mixed with carbonic acid and muriatic acid , in proportion to the quantity of moisture present ; for if water be admitted to it , the whole is decomposed .
If they be mixed in a receiver previously exhausted , the direct light of the sun is not necessary ; daylight alone is sufficient to unite them in less than twelve hours .
But when they are mixed over mercury , then it is requisite to expose them immediately to bright sunshine ; for otherwise the chlorine is absorbed by the mercury , and carbonic oxide alone remains .
The author also has endeavoured to unite these gases in an earthenware tube heated to redness , but without success .
The specific gravity of the gas has not been directly measured , but is inferred from the diminished bulk which it has been observed to occupy , and the known weights of the two gases which compose it .
From these data , 100 cubic inches of gas are estimated to weigh 105-97 grains .
The relative affinities of chlorine for carbonic oxide or for hydrogen , and of carbonic oxide for chlorine or for oxygen , appeared to the author to be very nicely poised .
Hydrogen does not decompose the new gas , neither does carbonic oxide decompose muriatic gas ; and further , if equal parts of chlorine , of hydrogen , and of carbonic oxide , be mixed and exposed to light , the chlorine is found to divide itself equally between the other two .
So also with respect to the relative affinities of carbonic oxide for chlorine or for oxygen .
The new gas is not decomposed by oxygen , neither is carbonic oxide altered by admixture with any proportion of chlorine that has been tried .

