[ 987 ] XI .
Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia.-\#151 ; Part IX .
, Section 1 .
On the Therosuchia* By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received January 8 , \#151 ; Read March .
1 , 1894 .
[ Plate 88 .
] Contents .
Definition of Theriodoutia . . . . . . . .
... .
... ... . . .
987 Evidence of the palate and types of dentition in the Theriodontia ... ... ... ... ... ... 989 South African groups of Reptiles which do not conform to the dentition and skull structure of Theriodontia , hut approximate to it in structure of the palate ... .
1000 European groups of Reptiles which show approximations to Theriodontia ... . .
1005 American Reptiles which are allied to the Theriodontia ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1007 Classification of the Anomodontia , showing characters of the larger groups ... . .
1010 Definition of Theriodontia .
he extinct order of fossil Reptilia named Theriodontia by Sir R. Owen in 1876 , t already been extended so as to comprise animals which are not included by the inal definition .
J It was founded upon skulls and fragments of skulls from South can rocks , chiefly obtained from localities near Fort Beaufort , the Sneeuwberg , the Rhenosterberg .
No other portion of the skeleton was known , except isolated humerus referred to the genus Cynodraco , which cannot be proved \gt ; e part of the same animal as the skull fragment with which it was associated , his order of animals was defined ( loc. cit. , p. 15 ) in the following terms : Dentii of the carnivorous type ; incisors defined by position , and divided from molars by rge laniarifbrm canine on each side in both upper and lower jaws , the lower canine ising in front of the upper , as in Mammalia : " This character had not previously n recognized among the Reptilia as having ordinal importance in elassificaThis name does not refer in anyway to the genus of Purbeck Crocodilia named Theriosuchus ( Ow .
) ; indicates animals with a combination of saurian and mammalian character .
Descriptive and illustrated Catalogue of the Fossil Reptilia of South Africa in the Collection of British Museum , ' 4 ' , 1876 .
' * Handbuch der Paleeontologie , ' vol. 3 , p. 572 .
13.2.95 tion , being only known as a mammalian character found in many different orders , such as Primates , Carnivora , Insectivora , Cheiroptera , Marsupialia , and certain ungulates .
The fact that the character is not sufficient to define an order of mammals , has led me to doubt whether it is sufficient to define the animal group which some writers have named Theriodontia .
Sir P. Owen did not adhere closely to the definition , since Procolophon was included under it , and in that genus there is no indication of suet differentiation of the teeth , which are uniform in size , and conical .
As the order was at first constituted , it included animals showing some diversity o structure .
It is , therefore , convenient to endeavour to fix the type which ma ; be regarded as representative of the group ; and for that purpose I propose to take th genus which the author placed first upon his list .
He divided the ordei into three families , and arranged the genera in groups in the following sequence Binarialiawith Lycosaurus and Tigrisuch Mononarialia with Cynodraco , Cynochawpsa , , us , Nythosaum Scdloposaurus , Procolophon .
Tectinarialia with Gorgonops .
' ' ' ' JjB I infer that Lycosaurus was regarded by the author as the type of the heriodontL because no reference is made to the family Cynodontia , formed in 1860 by S P. Owen for the genus Galesaurus .
Dr Zittel regards these three families as sections of the family Cynodontia , ft which he takes as type the'American genus Clepsydrops ( Cope ) , which would tb become the type of the Theriodontia .
But if the order is to be defined at all , its tie | can only be either Lycosaurus , which stands first on the list of constituent genera ; Galesaurus , which was the type of the older family Cynodontia , which is absorbed ; the larger group Theriodontia .
The difficulty in defining the order is the more evident since Dr. Zittel places it the families Cynodontia , Pariotichidse , Diadectidae , and Endothiodontidie , thi implying a community of structure , and since Mr. B. Lydekker+ includes in order the families Galesauridae , Tapinocephalidre , Diadectidre , and Clepsydropid placing Galesaurus planiceps first upon the list . .
, .
If the three types thus taken by different writers to represent the Theriodontia we known from complete skeletons or skulls , or were obviously members of the safe , nily group , no inconvenience would follow .
But the type species of Lycosau* Mr. R. Lydekker to the genus Mlurosaurus .
The ype . . .
preserved that details of structure of the teeth are not shown .
e ' of the skull in Clepsydrops are imperfectly known , though m.den* V does not appear to differ substantially from Lycosaurus , It has therefo I * ' Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
So .
, ' vol. 16 , p. 58 .
f \#166 ; Cat. Foss .
Kept , and Amphib .
, Brit , Mas .
, ' Part IV .
, 1890 .
j Cope , 'Trans .
Am .
Pbil .
Soc. , ' 1892 , Plate 2 , fig. 6AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
1 re-examine the types of Lycosaurus , JElurosaurus , and Galesciurus .
The It is that several distinct animals appear to have been comprised in deeps ; that the generic distinctness of z Eluis evident , the genus being differentiated from Lycosaurus ; and that Lycosaurus curvimola supplies for the time the means of defining the order Theriodontia by characters of the palate , evidence on which these conclusions rest is now given .
The palate , and types of dentition in the Theriodontia .
I. Galesaurus .
1 1860 , Galesaurus planiceps was the only South African reptile known to possess 5or , canine , and molar teeth .
No molar tooth in the type specimen of that genus the summit of the crown preserved .
What remains shows the crowns to be ; ened at the side and somewhat wide .
In Sir It .
Owen 's ' Palaeontology/ 2nd ed. , l , p. 268 , it is stated that " twelve close-set conical sub-compressed teeth succeed canine in both jaws , holding the place of the molar series ; they are of nearly 4 size , but much less than the canines ; those of the upper jaw pass external to lower molars when the mouth is shut. .
e The canines have the same lelative tions to each other , as in mammals , the lower passing in front and on the inner of the upper when the mouth is shut .
" " Both the upper and lower incisors are mged in contact or close order , as in mammals .
' n this specimen no indication is recorded of lateral cusps to the molar teeth , and before there is no difference from Lycosaurus in dental type which is evident , that all the genera included in the Theriodontia in 1876 were characterized , so as known , by having simple conical pointed teeth without cusps , except that thosaurus is said to show indications that the laterally compressed crowns of the \gt ; er molars are notched at their somewhat expanded borders .
It is added : the Lars in Galesaurus are too mutilated to show such character , if it existed .
There io doubt expressed till 1887 concerning the Theriodont type of the molar tooth of lesaurus .
The group was enlarged in 1876 by recognition of Theriodonts in the 'mian rocks of Bussia ; but the teeth of Deuterosaurus were compared to those of tosauvus* and Cynodraco .
Titanosuchus fer , described by Sir ft. Owen in 18/ 9 , de known a large animal in which the crowns of the teeth are lost , but transverse tions show no specialization of the numerous and relatively small molarst which iceed the large canine .
The description of JElurosaurus in 1881| showed small 1 pointed molar teeth which make no deviation from the Lycosaurian type ( p. 992 ) .
Sir It .
Owen 's last memoir on " South African Iteptilia , " in 1887 , is professedly an * ' Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , ' vol. 32 , p. 352 .
\#166 ; f 'Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , ' vol. 35 , p. 189 .
J * Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , ' vol. 37 , p. 261 .
account of the skull and dentition of Galesaur This second specimen has been accepted by myself ( 'Phil .
Trans./ 1889 ) and subsequent writers , as the type of Galesaurus .
It made known among Theriodonts the palate , and the form of molar teeth , with lateral cusps , which had been imperfectly suggested by Nylhosaurus .
This fossil from Thaba-chou , Basutoland , gave the genus a different aspect in 1887 from what it had in 1860 on the evidence of the Rhenosterberg specimen .
The two skulls are similar in size and general aspect , but when critically compared they show differences which may be of generic value .
The obvious differences between them are that ( 1 ) in the type specimen of 1859-60 the occipital plate is exposed as a large inclined surface which extends forward , with the bifurcation of the parietal crest , between the temporal vacuities for more than i third of their length ; in the second specimen of 1887 the occipital plate is no exposed , but was manifestly more nearly vertical , and the bifurcation of the parieta bones only slightly indents the back of the skull .
( 2 ) In the type the parietal foramen is one-third of the length of the temporal vacuity from its anterior border ; in the second specimen this foramen is in the middle length of the tempore vacuity .
( 3 ) In the type , the temporal vacuities are narrow , oblique , and have th aspect of their long axes converging forward ; in the other specimen they are longitudinally ovate , and the long axes are nearly parallel to each other .
( 4)Tbi| width of the cerebral region at the parietal foramen in the second specimen is sever tenths of its width in the type .
( 5 ) In.the type the orbits are sub-triangular ; i the other specimen they are circular .
( 6 ) In the type the frontal bone has a media suture ; in the other skull the median suture is absent or obliterated .
( 7)Tii| dental formula seen in the type islf.cy.myf ; while in the other skull it is I4.cl.m and the molar teeth of the second specimen have a lateral cusp on each side of tl median cusp , which is conical .
I regard generic difference between these fossils i being probably established by these characters .
The palate of the 1859-60 specimt is unknown .
There appear to be two other genera with cuspidate molars , Scaloposmr and Nythosaurus ; the latter known only from a cast of the skull from l^bs the teeth are lost .
Scaloposaurus has the skull of different form ; and though t teeth are tricusped they are more slender and more numerous .
I formerly identifit the second type of skull ( 1887 ) with Nythosaurus .
In that genus no evidence the incisors is preserved , and the number of molars behind the canine is eight \gt ; the upper jaw , and seven in the mandible .
These teeth are wide , close-set , \gt ; sockets , with a distinct cingulum at the base of the crown .
The pre-molar tee have three nearly equal cusps , and the molar teeth have five nearly equal cusps .
\gt ; its smaller number of teeth Nythosaurus larvatus is distinct from the type Galesaurus planiceps ; and in the greater number of cusps and larger size ot * * Quart .
Jcur .
Geol .
Soc./ vol. 43 , p. 1. .
AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
numerous teeth Nythosaurus larvatus is also distinct from Sir R. Owen 's d type of Galesaurus , described in 1887 .
It is not impossible that the teeth of ype of Galesaurus planiceps may have had the three and five-cusped crowns in Nythosaurus larvatus , but at present , proof of their generic identity is not n. The five-cusped molar is probably a generic difference from the three-cusped \#166 ; .
Hence I arrive at the result that there is no ground for referring the lauroid skulls , which the British Museum obtained from Dr. Exton , from boland and the Orange Free State , to either Galesaurus or , tsing those genera to be distinct .
I suggest for the genus ( ' Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
vol. 43 , plate 1 ) the provisional name Thrinaxodon ; the species may be known liorhinus .
It is thus evident that besides types with simple pointed or serrated .
teeth , the Theriodontia includes a group of genera with laterally cuspidate .s .
These groups of animals may be separated as distinct families , if not sub-s of Theriodontia , by many characters of the skull and dentition .
Yet in ibing Thrinaxodon liorhinus , in 1886\#151 ; 7 , Sir R. Owen refers to Galesaurus ceps as the type of the order .
The evidence of dentition in Galesaurus remains it was in 1859\#151 ; 60 , and there is no proof whether the teeth had any cusps , ree , or five ; so that there is no ground for transferring the type of the order Lycosaurus to Galesaurus .
It is probable that Galesaurus was like Thri-ion and Nythosaurus in molar dentition .
Hence it may be convenient to retain lame Cynodontia , # to distinguish the genera with laterally cuspidate molars , other genera occur with similar teeth , divided from the incisors by canines .
Fig. 1 .
Comparison of the molar teeth , of ( a ) Nythosaurus , and ( 6 ) Thrinaxodon liorhinus .
II .
JElurosaurus .
\lt ; lurosaurus closely resembles Lycosaurus in its dentition , especially the species )saurus curvimola .
On that resemblance , apparently , Mr. R. Lydekkee , !
wed the Lycosaurus curvimola to the genus founded on JElurosaurus felinus .
he skulls are dissimilar , I submit the following further evidence of the nature of wosaurus , based upon the original specimen described by Sir R. Owen .
be skull has lost the occipital and parietal regions , but the missing part is inferred \amp ; ve been short from the circumstance that the squamosal bone descends to form articulation for the lower jaw , in a way which may be compared with that shown * * Cynodont molar teeth are drawn in Plate 88 , fig. 6 .
t ' Cat. Foss .
Kept , and Amphib .
, Brit. Mus. , ' Part IV .
, 1890 p. 77 .
\#169 ; CCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 6 L in Delphinognathus conocephalus ( ' Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , ' 1892 , vol. 48 , p. 470 ) , ^ which , also , the articulation for the lower jaw is below the back of the orbit .
Qt this basis I offer a restoration of the skull of Mlurosaurus felinus , from which it seem probable that the proportions of the parts of the head must have been dissimilar JElurosaurusfelinus and I/ ycoscturus curvimolct .
The lower jaw shows some distinctive features .
The suture between the rami i persistent , notwithstanding the great depth of the symphysis .
The whole length c the dentary bone is flanked internally by a large sphenial bone , and the suture ?
manifest along the inferior edge of the jaw .
The sphenial bones unite anterior !
Behind the dentary bone externally is a large thin sub-triangular bone , which abui against the articular part of the squamosal , and covers an area of the lower jaj which is excavated in all known Cynodontia .
This bone is hence likely to be tl sur-angular , an element which X have not seen in that form or position in any otb skull ; yet affinity with Delphinocephalus would not support that interpretation .
The matrix has been slightly removed at my suggestion from the palate , whi\lt ; shows a typically Theriodont plan of construction in the development of plate which extend transversely outward and downward from the back of the palatis region to abut against the lower jaw ( Plate 88 , fig. 2 in a position which the orbits .
Upon this transverse-palatine ridge is a row of small teeth , indicab by their circular bases .
Fig. 2 .
Left side of the skull of Mlurosaurus felinus , restored .
groups P There is a posterior patch of about fifteen teeth on more densely grouped , in three rows .
Anterior to t other rows less dense , with the rows more elongated ai of the palatal teeth somewhat larger ( Plate 88 , fig. more AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
'gterior to the transverse palatine processes is the vertically compressed median { of the sphenoidal region ( fig. 2 ps ) , which appears to be developed as in all sodonts from South Africa , in which the pala/ te is known .
" development of teeth upon the palate finds no parallel in Lycosaurus It indicates some approximation to the condition seen in Procolophon and iasaurus , and demonstrates that a Theriodont may have the palate covered I teeth .
Neither Pareiasaurus nor Procolophon have the transverse palatine isses developed downward , in the way found in Theriodonts ; but they are gly developed in Pareiasaurus , carry teeth , are truncated externally , and when lower jaw is closed they extend between the rami of the mandible in a way h establishes a close affinity between the Theriodontia and Pareiasauria .
Until palate is known in the allies of Tapinocephalus , it cannot be regarded as estab-d that the .
systematic position of JEilurosaurus is with the Lycosauria .
III .
Lycosaurus .
le specimen No. 47,339 in the British Museum , named Lycosaurus curvimola en ) , from Kugaberg , near Stewart 's Farm , was presented by Mr. A. G. Bain .
no reason to doubt its generic association with the less perfectly preserved skull nents referred to the .same genus .
Lycosaurus pardialis and Lycosaurus ms are both too much crushed and too imperfect to admit of the necessary L of development with the chisel to display the skull structure , and I therefore ose to regard Lycosaurus curvimola as the type of Lycosaurus .
ie palate of this type , like that of every other described African Theriodont , pt Thrinaxodon , has hitherto been unknown .
But it is upon the characters of palate that the order will be established , as distinct from the Bidentalia or nodontia .
The palate has therefore been excavated at my request , in the tshops of the British Museum , by Mr. Richard Hall .
It now shows the ing fact that this type , with small and slender conical curved molar teeth , does differ in essential characters of palate structure from the Cynodontia , which I lined at Lady Frere .
The sphenoidal bar is long and slender ( Plate 88 , fig. 1 ) , its most dictinctive feature appears to be an angular bend which it makes 4 the anterior part of the palate where the transverse palatine processes t are -loped downward .
The posterior sphenoidal region ( bs ) makes but a small angle 4 a part of the occipital region which is preserved .
This is a slight approxi-from to the condition of the sphenoidal region found in Rhopalodon and 'rterosaurus from the Permian rocks of Russia .
The palate is vaulted in the on of the palato-nares , and this concavity is prolonged backward as a narrow Jnnel defined laterally by short , strong , compressed ridges , which approximate ^eriorly .
At the back of this groove the processes of the palatine and trans-t'f\gt ; e hones ( the sutures are not seen ) which diverge transversely outward and down ward , abut against the inner side of the lower jaw and descend to its base ( t\ in a line which appears to correspond with the back of the orbit , though th\lt ; skull is distorted .
These processes a , re compressed from front to back , and terminat inferiorly in a sharp ridge which forms a concave arch , as it extends from side to sid at the back of the palate .
These processes are one of the most distinctive ording characters of the Theriodontia , which they share with other Therosuchia .
Behind the intramandibular processes is the long sharp laterally compresse pre-sphenoid keel , which widens posteriorly into the obliquely truncated triangulg mass , which I regard as the basi-sphenoid .
It closely resembles the basi-sphenoid j a Chelonian , though it is nearly in the same plane with the back of the skull , Ti median sphenoidal bar in front terminates inferiorly in a sharp ridge , which is flank\#171 ; by the pterygoid bones .
These bones are compressed from above downward , are contact with the sphenoidal keel , but in a plane at some height above its base .
they extend backward they widen transversely , and are prolonged honpptajj outward ( pt ) , so as to be separated from the opisthotic region at the base of tr occipital plate , by a transverse inferior foramen like that seen in Cynognathus , T external bar of the pterygoid is slender and thin , and the union which it may supposed to have made with the quadrate bone is not seen .
The triangular surfacet the basi-sphenoid between the pterygoid bones is a little wider than long .
The foramen magnum is small and vertical .
There do not appear to he occipital condyles preserved .
The palate now described is similar to that of , which may be as typical of the Cynodontia , so as to prove that both forms of skull and dento may be included in the order Theriodontia .
Lycosaurus may therefore be both 8 type of the order Theriodontia , and the type of the division of it characterised r simple conical compressed molar teeth ( Plate 88 , fig. 1\#187 ; ) , which may be tend In illustration of known variation in incisor teeth in skulls of this LPs0 ?
|Bf| type , I append here a note on the snout , of Pristerognathus polyodon .
Pristerognathus polyodon(Seeley ) .
Plate 88 , fig. 3 .
Lycosauria.* was recognized ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1889 ) .
But as relinquished in favour of Lycosauna , type was recoi now relinquisl distorted by oblique compression , like most of the Karroo fossils .
As it appears jicate a different genus from any of the types hitherto defined , characterized by cisor dentition , I describe its distinguishing characters .
Many of the types ibed by Sir Richard Owen are known from similarly imperfect materials , and bre it admits of definite comparison with them .
Among such genera are Cyno-psa , Cynodraco , Tigrisuchus .
3 dental formulae of these types , as determined by Sir R Owen , are given in Allowing tabular statement , and I have added to them the tooth formula of mehus and Lycosaurus , all of which types I suppose to have possessed molar of simple conical form , like those seen in the jaws of and Lyco- is , but the crowns of the molars are known only in those genera .
Pristerognathus . .
I. 6 \#151 ; 6 3 \#151 ; 3 Mlurosaurus ... . .
I. 5 \#151 ; 5 5 \#151 ; 5 Cynodraco ... . . .
I. 5 \#151 ; 5 4 \#151 ; 4 Titanosuchus ... . .
I. 5 \#151 ; 5 4 \#151 ; 4 .
Cynochampsa .
I. 4 \#151 ; 4 3 \#151 ; 3 Cynosuchus ... . .
I. 4 \#151 ; 4 Tigrisuchus ... . .
I. 3 \#151 ; 3 Lycosaurus ... . .
I. 4 \#151 ; 4 3 \#151 ; 3 m. 4 + \#151 ; 5 \#151 ; 5 Til .
-----5 \#151 ; 5 m. ?
m. 11 \#151 ; 11 10\#151 ; 10 ( or 11 ) m. ?
m. 7 \#151 ; 7 m. P \#151 ; 5 m. --\#151 ; 5 is thus evident that Pristevognuthus differs from all Theriodonts hitherto un , first in the large number of its superior incisors , which is greater than in any iously known genus , and exceeds the number in Opossums ; and , secondly , in the lively small number .of the incisors in the lower jaw .
he fragment is 3^ inches long and 2^ inches wide external to the canines , with anterior alveolar border convexly rounded in front , and rising in the usual way , a e in advance of the teeth , in a manner which characterizes most , if not all , riodont genera .
The lower jaw fits within the canines and incisors of the upper in the usual way , and the inferior canines pierce through the maxillary bones into skull as in all known Theriodonts .
die rami of the mandible are entirely separate , the suture persisting with a dis--tness which is not seen in other genera ( fig. 3 ) .
Their anterior surface is rounded n side to side , and the chin retreats as it descends .
Only about 1-1 % inch of its depth ^reserved .
The least transverse width below the maxillary canines is 1 j % inch , while PROFESSOR H. G. SEELEY ON THE STRUCTURE , ORGANIZATION , external to the mandibular canines the width exceeds inch .
This anterior surfac Q awe is marked with numerous small vascular foramina .
The rami diverge at an angle about 40 ' .
The dentary bone behind the symphysial area is about inch thick , an is not in close contact with the thin splenial bone , which extends along its inner ski , as in other Theriodonts .
The large mandibular canine is only exposed on the right side , except that tt roots are shown by the inferior fracture of the base of the jaw to be quite close to i antero-lateral angle , while the alveolar border is about an inch behind its anteri extremity .
This canine is ovate in section , and apparently has sharp cutting margii back and front .
It is almost or entirely iti front of the maxillary canine , and large but its entire width is not exposed .
The dentary incisors have their crowns preserved on the right side .
They are this in each dentary bone , placed in sockets so as to occupy the space m front of the canii The roots appear to be ovate .
The crowns decrease in size from the first to the thii They are long , curved backward , convex externally , terminating laterally in sha .
curved finely serrated margins .
No indications are preserved of teeth behind t\#187 ; canines .
The three incisors and their interspaces occupy a width of ^ inch .
The anterior nares show no tracef of median division , but as the preservation !
unsatisfactory , it is impossible to affirm that there was but one aperture .
Furtb back , at the posterior fracture , there is a strong median division separating fe chamber above the palate into two lateral parts .
It appears to be formed by bon which diverge in a broad A-shape extending outward to the maxillary .
They $ apparently the palatines .
The nasals , which form the median roof bones of the skull , are crushed , so tit their width cannot be measured , though it exceeded one inch .
The maxillary bones , which form the side of the jaw , and ascend somewhat e-vexly to the upper surface , are sculptured with a fine suh-crocodilian ornament .
Is anterior border of the bone extends forward by squamous overlap upon the premaxilli ?
alveolar border , as in Deuterosauria , so that the premaxillary bones extend furtk backward than is shown by the external position of the suture .
All the incisor tea are in the premaxillary bone , but there is no evidence whether it forms part ot \#187 ; socket for the canine .
The incisors are six in number in each premaxillary .
* crowns are lost ( fig. 3 , 1-6 ) .
The roots show the first to have been ''\#153 ; lar ' ' others are ovate , with the long axes in longitudinal sequence .
The second to the are nearly uniform in size , but the sixth is smaller .
The measurement 101 to the sixth is 1-A inch .
The transverse measurement over the palate at the six 1A- inch .
The front pair of incisors is in near contact , so that they are be wee ^ larger front pair of mandibular incisors , though externally in advance of them .
anterior margin of the root of the canine ( c ) is l*ro inc e \#174 ; \#153 ; maxillary suture .
It is broken away , but enough remains to s ow a was ovale in section , \#171 ; inch wide , * inch thick , rounded on the anterior bo.c and classification of the FOSSIL REPTILIA .
997 *essed on the posterior border to a sharp edge , which is serrated .
The molar lindicated , rather than preserved , have lost their crowns , and the few sections .
roots appear to be rather more circular than those of the incisors , and if not l ?
r , were not larger .
jj genus is defined by having the twelve incisor teeth in the upper jaw ovate in .
compressed from within outward ; and the six incisor teeth in the mandible :ohe curved crowns compressed to sharp serrated edges , and decrease in size from ledian line .
The mandibular canines appear to be completely hidden when iw is closed .
as the Theriodontia , as originally defined , included first a group of animals with formed on the type of Lycosaurus ; secondly , a group with skulls formed on rpe of Thrinaxodon , and these groups with similar " Theriodont " dentition are 1 by a community of structure of the palate which distinguishes them from the lodonts .
This is the most important difference known between these groups , jfessor E. D. Cope has stated , ^ " It is evident that the Anomodontia differ from heriodonta in the absence of a zygomatic arch , and in the presence of a supra-oral arch , which is separated from the parietal bone by a supra temporal ien .
" I cannot admit this distinction , if it is intended to imply a structural ; ence in the groups .
I can find no difference in the character of the arch in wo groups , except that in the Theriodont the malar bone has a greater ex-nL backward development than in Dicynodonts j and that in Eicynodonts the aiosal bone has a greater downward development than is usually seen in the dontia ; but the difference between the groups is not due to any difference in lature of the arches , but to a less development of the quadrate bone in the ..odontia , which has resulted in a diminution and Lycosaurus ) or :hy ( Thrinaxodon ) of the descending pedicle of the squamosal bone.t I therefore ho facts to support Professor Cope 's arrangement of the Permian fteptilia , which .assifies by theoretical interpretations of this arch .
le two orders , Eieynodontia and Theriodontia , are absolutely distinct in palatal aeters , but there is no manifest distinction in the post-orbital arch .
It will be Trans. Am .
Phil. Soc. , ' vol. 17 , p. 16 , 1892 .
Professor Cope ( ' Proc. Am .
Assoc. Adv. Sci./ vol. 33 , p. 473 , 1885 ) describes the quadrate bone in drops as consisting of two portions , one Yertical , the other transverse ; and adds : * This horizontal '3 of the quadrate is nothing more than the zygomatic process of the squamosal bone of the toalia , forming with the malar bone the zygomatic arch : " " hence we have here a reptile with a guatic arch attached to the distal extremity of the quadrate bone .
" This condition is not evident bfessor Cope 's figures of Glepsydrops and other genera given in 1892 ( Trans. Am .
Phil. Soc. ) , l\lt ; e a large horizontal bone in some genera ( lettered Z ) is described as " zygomatic ( quadrato-jugal ) .
\gt ; ich condition is seen in true Theriodonts , in which the zygoma is formed by the horizontal branch e squamosal bone and the malar bone , though the external bar of the squamosal has the aspect of M divided by a vertical fracture or suture in one or two specimens of South African Theriodonts .
shown that there is a foramen in the post-orbital arch of one species of Cynognathu but it is wanting in another species of the same genus .
I am unable to find any justification for Professor Cope 's suggestion to replac the group Pareiasauria by the Cotylosauria , * based upon American types .
} his second contribution to the " History of the Permian Yertebrata of Texas , " ( 'pro Am .
Phil. Soc. , ' 1880 , vol. 19 , p. 45 ) , it is mentioned that the author felt justified j proposing a new division of the Theromorpha ( 'Am .
Not .
, ' 1878 ) , to include tl Diadectidge , to be called Cotylosauria ( 'Am .
Not ./ 1880 , p. 304 ) .
1 believed thr group , with Empedias as its figured type , to conveniently define animals with tee of a transverse insectivorous type ( ' Proc. Am .
Phil. Soc./ 1878 , p. 516 ; 1880 , p. 63* vol. 19 , Plate 5 , 1881 ) .
In the side view of the skull three fragments appear to ; known ; and in the restoration which connects them a considerable temporal vacui is shown .
In 1892 , Professor Cope defined the Cotylosauria as distinguished 1 having the temporal vacuities entired roofed over : the group is then made : comprise the genera Chxlonyx , Pantylus , and in America , probat Pareiasaurus from South Africa , and Phanerosaurus from the Permian of Germai It is therefore evident that the Cotylosauria of 1892 ( Cope ) has no obvious relatit to the group so named by him in 1881 .
I make this statement in this place | illustration of difficulties in attempting to correlate unfigured American genera the materials from South Africa ; and without examining the specimens it would impossible to say whether the unfigured genera can be referred to European r African groups of animals .
Whatever may prove to be the systematic position of the genera Chilow , Pantylus , Pariotichus , Edaphosaurus , Clepsydrops , Naosaurus and I gatir from Professor Cope 's figures ( 'Trans .
Am .
Phil. Soc./ 1892 ) that so far as fe teeth are concerned , there appears to be a close resemblance of Clepsydrops to Ly-saurus .
This may possibly extend to Naosaurus , though the canines and mcisorso not appear to be preserved .
Pantylus appears to have a canine dividing incisors d molars , but in Edaphosaurus and Pariotichus there is no evidence of a function^ developed canine , and there is no evidence from the figures that the teeth preserved in Chilonyx and Diopeus .
The original description of Chilonyx ( 'P* Am .
Phil. Soc./ 1883 , p. 631 ) indicates for that genus , apparently , teeth of the t\#171 ; seen in Empedias , which makes it impossible to place the transversely wide crush , ' teeth of this type in the same family with Clepsydrops , which has piercing \#171 ; tearing teeth . . .
, .SI There are similar difficulties with the classification of African types , due P\amp ; )p imperfection of evidence , and partly the result of diversity of character .
They n* the question whether the original dental definition of the Theriodontia s retained or abandoned .
o- t ?
Owt S There is a third group of true Theriodonts , which falls within Sir K. uw * ' Trans. Am .
Phil. Soc. , ' vol. 17 , 1892 , pp. 13,16 .
and classification of the FOSSIL REPTILIA .
999 tion the Gomphodontia , comprising the allies of the new genera Trirhachodon , which shows but , little difference from the Cynodontia in the form e skull or the structure of the palate , but has the molar teeth modified for , ing .
Bse three groups are so far parallel to certain types of placental and marsupial malia as to suggest the possibility of further dental variation , by the suppression d incisor teeth , of the canines , or of the molars .
The evidences of such medians of the dentition among fossils from South Africa are not complete .
But if it e shown that the palate retains the same type of structure as in the Lycosauria may be sufficient reason for associating any such family with the Theriodontia parallel group , even though it does not conform to the original definition of the But its inclusion in the Theriodontia would necessitate a new definition ie extended group , which , by absorbing the Theriodontia , would substitute for jther group of animals .
long as there is evidence that the plan of a natural group is the same , there d be no more difficulty in comprising within it closely allied minor groups of als than there is in including diverse dental types among the Marsupialia or rtilia .
It would be impossible to use the name Theriodontia for such an enlarged a , if the Theriodontia were retained in the terms of Sir It .
Owen 's original ition .
Thus , in the genus Deuterosaurus , from the Permian of Russia , the r teeth are apparently reduced to a single tooth on each side .
It is therefore eivable that the molar teeth might disappear entirely .
There is some reason hinking that such a type exists .
Sir It .
Owen described several genera , such as )draco , Cynochampsa , Tigrisuchus , in which no molar teeth are recorded .
That ition , however , is associated with fracture of the snout ; and there is no evidence those genera are not allied to Lycosaurus or to , though they may llied to Gorgonops , which is not so obviously Theriodont in dentition .
In that as the head is elongated , without evidence of posterior transverse expansion jh is usually seen in Theriodonts .
The temporal vacuities are roofed over with as in Pareiasaurus , and the bone is smooth .
The condition of roofing of the .1 however is unlike Pareiasaurus , because the roof-bones are continuous with vertical occipital plate , closing in the back of the skull , as in Kistecephalus .
re is no indication that the articulation for the lower jaw descended below the d of the palate , or that the transverse-palatine processes were developed downed between the mandible , and it is on this character that the inclusion of the 'gonopsia in the same group with the Theriodontia would depend .
This condition rever results from the state of preservation * of the specimen .
It is evident t those processes , which are now broken away , attained a considerable downward felopment , but it is not evident that they terminate d externally in the thickened lu*al truncated surfaces seen in typical Theriodonts .
Enough however remains to * 1 Cat. Foss .
Kept .
South Africa , ' Plate 21 , fig , 2 .
^DCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. justify the association of the Gorgonopsia with the Theriodontia in one larger grou so far as palatal characters are concerned .
There^are incisor teeth and canines , but am unable to recognize molars ; of which Sir R. Owen thought there were one or tw , doubtful indications , which are not shown in his figure .
The nares are crushed an have a transverse dumb-bell like form , as preserved , which led Sir R. Owen to pR the genus in a distinct family , Tectinarialia .
I attach no importance in classificatio : to this form of nostril , or to the single or divided nares of other genera .
For tb nares in all typical Theriodont animals being terminal , the existence or width of tb inter-nasal septum is difference of degree , not ol kind , and is influenced by its sta of preservation .
South African groups of Reptilia which approximate to Theriodontia in structure the palate , hut differ in dentition and structure of the skull .
Very little importance can be attached to the complete roofing of the skull .
In fe Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , there has long been a skull of a rece , Crocodile in which there are no supra-temporal vacuities .
The roofing of the skull ?
Pareiasaurus is essentially comparable to the condition in certain Cheloma , for h roof is distinct from the back of the brain case .
I therefore suppose it might b similarly absorbed in both groups .
And such a difference as distinguishes the r\lt ; f of the skull of Chelone from Testudo , defines the difference in this respect between te skulls of Pareiasaurus and the typical Theriodonts .
There are many other diffeiffieglj however , in the skull .
The large single sub-ovate occipital condyle of Pareiasaun ss with its central concavity is unparalleled in any known Theriodont .
The posterior nas are carried further back on the palate .
There is no median keel to the presphen !
exposed behind the posterior nares , and therefore no extension of the pterygoid bom along the margin of that keel .
The quadrate bones attain a development unknoa in typical Theriodonts .
And the transverse truncated processes of the palate , w abut against the lower jaw , are directed forward and downward , owing to the backwd position of the palato-nares .
There is po conspicuous coronoid process to the loir iaw .
It is not obvious that the differences of this type of skull from * and Gorgonops , are of the same order as those which separate it from the Cynodontia , and Gomphodontia .
If the Theriodontia is limited to t e a^te\ .
1 closely allied groups , there can be no doubt that the Pareiasauna lies entirely outs* the Theriodontia .
But with the affinity of the skeleton between P^a^ ; the Deuterosaum on the one hand , and between and the other hand , it is obvious that the relationship between Theriodont type of animal is closer than might have been suspected from Both are not improbably closely related constituent members 0 ' a L animals .
The peculiar laterally cuspidate structure of all the teet o ^ and the unvaried condition of the teeth from front to back , demons ra es W* iiit ) CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
100l l is not unrecognized on account of small size , as it might be in a Lycosaurian , but no canine tooth or incisor was ever differentiated .
Therefore a difference , which ssibly subordinal , separates the Pareiasaurian dentition , which may be conveniently nguished as Homalodont , from the Theriodont specialization of teeth .
lother dental type from South Africa is that in which the incisor or other \gt ; lar teeth are lost , and the palate retains evidence of Theriodont construction , group may apparently develop canine teeth , and possibly other kinds of teeth , at the Endothiodont dentition may not be so exceptional as it at first appeared ! .
Endothiodontia .
le only genus of this group hitherto defined is , of which the type is othiodon bathystoma .
I , at present , know of no other species which can be ded in the same genus .
This type is known from the anterior parts of the lower ind skull from the Oude Kloof , on which Sir Richard Owen founded the genus , the complete ramus of the lower jaw and zygoma given me by Mr. T. Bain , # now jirted to the British Museum .
On these materials the genus Endothiodon may efined as devoid of teeth in the anterior part of the jaws ; with the mandibular i in parallel rows , each tooth having a long crown , compressed and serrated on i the front and back margins .
There is no ascending coronoid process to the lower There is a smaller perforation in the jaw than in Dicynodon .
There is a large bvation on the external side of the mandible , in front of the terminal articulation , nares are lateral and terminal , and the palato-nares deeply excavated , forming a mel behind the narrow vomerine bones in front , margined laterally by the palatine 3s , which are strongly developed on their external border , descending between the i of the mandible .
There is no trace of division of the palato-nares .
t thus appears that the Endothiodontia parallel the Edentata in the absence of h in the front of the jaws .
They are characterized by having teeth which are loved from the usual marginal position on the jaws .
^ second genus , which may possibly find a place in this group , is , cribed in 1868 , by Professor Huxley , from specimens obtained by Mr. McKay , of st London.t It has a depressed form of skull , somewhat Dicynodont in aspect , h a moderately wide flat area between the temporal vacuities , and , so far as can be Q ) is without any conspicuous descending process in the squamosal region for iculation with the lower jaw .
The materials are not well-preserved , but apparently 're are no teeth in the front of the jaw .
All the teeth in the maxillary region are iracterized by long compressed crowns , with a smooth sharp anterior border , and a rated posterior border .
Besides the principal external row of teeth , there are on the * 'Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , ' 1892 , vol. 48 , p. 476 .
t ' Geol .
Mag. , ' 1868 , p. 201 , Plate 12 .
inner side other teeth at a lower level ; and , although too few are preserved t\lt ; indicate parallel rows in the lower jaw like those of , they seem to me a likely to indicate portions of parallel rows compressed together , as to be successions teeth in stages of development .
If this genus is rightly referred to this group , it the only specimen which shows the external structure of the superior part of tl skull .
In 1879 , Sir B. Owen described as a second species Endothiodon * know ' from the anterior part of the skull , which exhibits the structure of the palate .
Tl teeth are far removed from the sharp external margin of the jaw , and form a sing series .
I regard this fossil as the type of a distinct genus , which I propose to defii as Esoterodon .
This genus is devoid of teeth in the front of the jaw , like all knov Endothiodonts .
The teeth form a single series upon the maxillary bone , with tl rows divided from each other by the vomera .
The teeth are parallel to the cuttb margin of the jaw .
Their crowns were probably conical and pointed , but are a preserved .
The anterior nares are lateral , the palato-nares are exposed in a de\#171 ; groove with sharp lateral margins bounded by the palatine bones as in Endothiodt , and as in the Cynodontia .
A modification of the dental type of Esoterodon may be indicated by a sal fossil , which I found in soft green shales at Molteno Pass , in the Nieuweldt ram .
This specimen is in bad preservation , and only known from the anterior half of e skull .
It is about two inches long , and does not show the back of the orbit it agrees with Esoterodon uniseries ( Owen ) in the toothless condition of the front !
the jaw , which is concavely excavated in a similar way , but it appears to diffein having a single minute canine tooth upon the alveolar border .
This may associated with other differences of a generic character , difficult to define on Oft* of the condition of preservation .
I have suggested a distinct generic name for te , .
, i , ; " i , ic fV , e mnre interestim ?
as combining in a Thenodont type of sku , * Cryptocynodon simus .
Plate 88 , figs. 4 , 5 .
Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , ' 1879 , vol. 35 , p. 557 , Plate 27 .
A1STD CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REFTILIA .
1003 b\#169 ; compared with the parallel rows of teeth in the mandible of Endothiodon .
-ype specimen is somewhat distorted .
e palate is arched in front , with the sides of the maxillary bones apparently lei .
The maxillary passes in front of the premaxillary , and extends forward to 3ase 0f the nasal aperture .
The exact extent of the premaxillary is not fest .
So far as can be judged from the condition of the specimen , there is no nee that it was divided , but the condition of the fossil has not allowed of ration of the palatal surface .
The entire length from the back of the maxillary to 'ont of the premaxillary is 1J inch , and the width of the bone at the back of the lary region is 1-* % inch as preserved .
The canine tooth ( fig. 4 , c , c ) is upon a sharp [ ar border , and is distant inch from the median anterior extremity .
The i of this anterior space appears to be concavely excavated , and its anterior margin from the front is vaulted exactly as in Ptychognathus .
From the base of the e tooth a convexity ascends curving backward towards the orbit .
The alveolar in appears to extend for about -x-o inch behind the socket for the canine tooth , jalate is divided by a median ridge sharply elevated , presumably formed by the r , and it indicates division of the palato-nares .
These vacuities are deeply rated and margined externally behind by the palatine bones , which form sharp s on their outer borders .
The width of the palato-nares at the posterior fracture ids half an inch .
On the maxillary bone , apparently midway between its external 3r indicated by the canine and the vomerine ridge in front of the palatine , is :ow of palatal teeth ( fig. 4 and fig. 5fnt ) .
They have been broken from their , which are in most cases also exposed , and show the crowns to be comparatively and sub-cylindrical with a tendency to be ovate in section , slightly expanded he summit , which is enamelled , and in some cases , especially the last tooth , ^ed with ridges .
One specimen on the right side indicates a tooth which tinates in a point .
Only four teeth are clearly demonstrated on each side , but ppose that six or seven are indicated on the left side .
There is no trace of itions upon the crowns of the teeth .
3en from the side , the maxillary region is deep , and the bone apparently ascends level with the flattened top of the skull ( fig. 5 ) , being fully inch high at the ne tooth , and about 1 inch long on the alveolar border .
The nares { n , n , ) are ral , looking outward and very slightly forward , separated by an interspace of about nch .
This flat nose has suggested the specific name .
This measurement is about al to the height of the nasal vacuity , which is somewhat longer , though owing to encrusting matrix its length on the left side exceeds that on the right side .
The =th of the interspace between the narine and the orbit appears to differ on the two 38 'f the head , but was about inch .
The orbits ( o , o , ) were large and lateral , width of the interspace between them as preserved is about inch .
Their .
\gt ; erior border was formed by the post-frontal and pre-frontal bones in the usual y. The post-frontal is broken away from the back of the orbit , as is the malar ; but the posterior fracture of the frontal bones shows that their descending lateral walls were ossified .
A median plate descends towards the palate , but there is evidence of a complete interorbital septum , or that the cavity enclosed between th .
region of the post-frontals is the anterior termination of the brain case .
There i nothing in the external aspect of the specimen to suggest the structures which it palate* shows .
There is another group of South African reptiles which is perhaps less obvious !
allied to the Theriodontia , indicated by the imperfect skull of the genus Delpk nognathusJ It is allied to the Gorgonopsia in the great breadth and shortnej of the parietal region of the skull and has small lateral temporal vacuities .
It hi a squamosal pedicle descending to the articulation with the lower jaw , which extern forward , and appears to imply a short sphenoidal region to the palate , in which resembles ^Elurosaurus .
Its molar teeth are imperfectly known , but appear be simple and conical , without cusps .
There is some evidence , from specimens whis I obtained , that this group includes more than one type of dentition .
The comple skull will be evidenced by Tapinocephalus .
That genus has a single occipital condy Its teeth give no indication of functional canines , or of difference of size of mok and incisors ; but the crowns are of a type previously unknown in South Afnc .
reptiles .
With these animals is associated an imperfect skull of similar type , ton distinguished as Dinocephalus , which has the largest canine teeth found South African fossil , associated with small molars .
If Murosaurus should \amp ; a place in this group it would add to its dental diversity .
The fact that t principal genera have similar types of skull , but differ in types of dentation , suggd that the group may possibly be a primary division of the Anomodont alliance , thou its palate indicates Theriodont affinities .
It may be referred to as Dmocepha , There are thus four groups of fossil reptiles distinguished by their dental types , 4 * The hack of the skull is unknown in every Endothiodont .
I have long suspected that the sM Tropidostoma Dunni( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1889 , Plate 12 ) , which has the Theroguchian type of Bp \#187 ; dividing the pterygoid bones , may be an Endothiodont skull .
I base this suggestion upon the \#187 ; eiUion of the occipital plate ^ condyles .
None of these characters are known in Dicynodonts , all are found m There .odonts_ Tte of the skull is not of a known Therosnchian type , differing in the derated position of the Zygom ITr characters which approximate to Dicynodonts .
The unknown Therosnchian type of skull Endothiodont .
Mr. ft. Lydjskkee ( 'Cat .
Foss .
Rept .
Brit. Mus , ' Part 4 , p. 6 ) legar ^ Dunni Phil. Trans. ' 1889 , Plate 12 ) as a synonym of Dicynodm micro(remo ( too .
at. .
Plate UJ withstanding the ordinal differences of structure which the specimens show .
They are com ^ the genus Ftychasiagiim ( Lm ) ; but so far as I can judge from the Bgures o specimens ( r Sumf India , ' 1890 ) it is probable that that Indian genus belongs to the Therosuc , *J Theriodont , since the scapula , ilium , vertebrre , are Therosuchian , whi.e I recognize no D.cyn ' character in any of the figures .
f ' Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , ' 1892 , vol. 48 , p. 469 .
\#166 ; and classification of the FOSSIL REPTILTA .
1005 ilodont Pareiasauria ; the Theriodont , comprising Lycosauria , Cynodontia , and Dhodontia ; the edentate Endothiodontia ; and the heterodont Dinocephalia , [ r which the Gorgonopsia may perhaps be included , In the absence of know-\gt ; of the post-orbital region of the skull , and in view of the remarkable difference te lower jaw of Endothiodon bathystoma from that of a Theriodont , it seems issible that it can be included in the same order with the true Theriodonts , L [ n view of some resemblance of plan in the back of the skull between klus and Gorgonops , and the forward position of the palato-nares in both , I ate , for the present , to regard those genera as representative of groups which are |of equal value .
is possible that another South African group may hereafter be based upon the lied mammal Tritylodon , in which there is a close resemblance to typical odont dentition ; and with that genus may be associated the teeth which are tibed under the name Diademodon .
But as the post-orbital region of the skull known it is impossible to define the group , or prove that it is distinct from the ohodontia which the animals resemble in details of skull structure .
European Fossil Reptiles which approximate to the Theriodontia .
:me of the Permian reptiles of Europe have obvious and near affinity with these ih African groups , and Sir R. Owen proposed to include the Russian genera in fheriodontia .
I have rather inclined to refer Deuterosaurus and Rhopalodon to oarate group under the name Deuterosauria , ( 1 ) because the palato-nares open wo distinct completely exposed vacuities , without any arch below them of a hard be truncated posteriorly , such as characterises all true Theriodonts which I ' examined ; ( 2 ) because the sphenoido-pterygoid region makes an angular bend 1 the palate , so as to be in the same plane with the occiput ; and ( 3 ) because quadrate bones attain a large vertical downward development unknown in the idodontia .
With these differences are associated a simpler pelvis , and limb bones di show some resemblances to those of Pare and are unlike those of any un African Theriodont .
The type to which the skull approaches nearest appears e Lycosaurus .
It is possible that the Deuterosauria may include Placodus .
f- European type which approximates to the Theriodonts is indicated by the tains described by Professor Albert Gatjdry as Stereorachis * he only part of the skull known is the premaxillary and maxillary bones .
hey lv three incisors , of which the first two are large ; no canine ; and six pointed tars .
In the dentary bone the three incisors are larger ; there is no canine , but 1 pointed molars are ten in number .
The other parts of the skeleton preserved *Les Vertebres Fossiles des Environs d'Autun , ' 1888 , from the lower Permian of Autun in France , include vertebrae and ribs , inter-clavicle , clavicle , scapula , coracoid , and humeri* M. Gaudry has remarked on the resemblance of the humerus with that of monotn iVI .
vjtAUDRY nas remarKeu .
uu tnu uuuivxuu u AUUIiotrei^ mammals , and with Cynodraco , Platypodosaurus , and ( = Deuterosaurus The humerus is probably more mammalian than that of any known fossil reptile , an at the same time more like the Theriodont type of Africa than anything previous ] figured .
The humerus is in harmony with the bones of the shoulder girdle in the monotreme characters ; while the humerus in Theriodonts seems to me more mg supial in type .
The absence of canine teeth in both jaws excludes the type from t* Theriodontia ; and I propose to use that character in defining the Stereoracf , provisionally , till the hinder part of the skull is known .
The only European aninuj which the remains at all resemble is the Protorosauria \ and it is possible that t\gt ; Stereorachia may be included in that group .
The data for comparison are scan .
And if the teeth suggest some degree of approximation , which may be supported ?
the structure of the shoulder girdle , there are greater differences in the humev than would be anticipated in members of the same group .
There are features# the dentition or skeleton in which the Stereorachia can be compared with % Deuterosauria .
It further appears to be not improbable that the Protorosauria may be more neav related to the groups of animals which I have here indicated than to other |\amp ; \lt ; gH fossils .
In the skull the extremity of the snout is unknown , and it now seems to e more likely that the anterior nares were terminal , than that they were situaten advance of the lachrymal bone .
Owing to the squamous overlap of the maxihy upon the premaxillary bones , the definition of the premaxillary is not always clear* ' Anomodonts , Ornithosaurs , and Plesiosaurs , and there is still no indicationWi( anterior nares in Protorosaurus .
There is probably hut a single post-orbital an ; and the upper and under surfaces of the skull show resemblances in the fa and proportions of the bones to animals allied to Theriodonts , which were not obvm formerly because the evidence was not available .
The clavicular arch describe^ Professor H. Credner is an important resemblance to Anomo onts .
e finds a parallel in form in the Deuterosauria .
The femur is Anomodont in i\#187 ; \#171 ; *j fication at the proximal end .
The pelvis appears to be mtermediate l known Anomodonts , and the types seen in Ornithosaurs and the Cet , \lt ; * Saurischia .
But with these Anomodont resemblances there are d*ftere " ' ' the hollow limb bones of Protorosaurus ; but as I have a veiterarom which I believe to be Anomodont , which is apparently pneumatic , that difference , lot be more than sub-ordinal .
I therefore would place the Protorosaunain^ tion with the foregoing groups provisionally , but there is no evidence figured that shoulder girdle is Anomodont in having a pre-coracoid bone .
' lam not aware of many characters which unite these orders or sub-orders t^ wHcWo not equally unde them with the other South Africa Anomodont , t^ and toothless .
So far as known all have substantially the same type F Tea ial and classification of the FOSSIL REPTILIA .
1007 JJ| girdle , and clavicular arch .
The differences in the larger limb bones are I dependent upon their length and function .
The differences in the vertebrae do five grounds for distinction .
In the carpus , tarsus , and digits there is evidence of 'tion , but this does not allow of the types just considered being grouped together , hose regions of the skeleton are known in a few only of the groups .
Many os show in the skull the development of the transverse palatine , intra-ilibular arch , into which the transverse bone appears to enter , which is not known ie Bidentalia of Bain ( = Dicynodontia ) .
That arch is not at present known cist in the Stereorachia , of which the palate is unknown .
And it has not been mized in the single imperfect skull of Protorosaurus , which has the bones of palate displaced .
It serves to unite apparently the Pareiasauria , Gorgonopsia , jcephalia , Deuterosauria , Endothiodontia , and Theriodontia , under which are com-d Lycosauria , Cynodontia , and Gomphodontia .
This larger group I would proto distinguish as the Therosuchia , since it comprises animals which , while itially Reptilian and almost Rhyncocephalian in some fundamental characters , e transitions towards the lower Mammalia in every part of the skeleton .
AmericanPermian Reptiles which* ave allied to the Thei lodontia .
he American Permian Reptilia from Texas , described by Professor E. D. Cope 3 1876 , were referred in 1878 to a group or order of animals named Pelycosauna roc .
Am .
Phil. Soc. , ' 1878 , vol. 17 , p. 529 ) .
he author states that the division Pelycosauria is established primarily on the era Clepsy drops and Pimetrodon .
In 1892 ( ' Trans. Am .
Phil. Soc. , vol. 17 , ie 2 , fig. 6 ) an outline figure was given of the lateral aspect of the skull of psydrops .
In describing the dentition in 1878 the teeth are said to be of different s , and the premaxillaries and the canines are distinguished from the others by their oortions .
" All have " more or less defined anterior and posterior cutting edges .
L892 it is added : " No indication of the supra-temporal foramen can be found in rather mutilated specimen .
I think it was not present .
Many parts of the leton were known , showing Rhyncocephalian ch aracters ; but , from the absence of quadrato-jugal arch , the genus is referred to a distinct sub-order named Pely-rnria .
n Pimetrodon the superior dentition does not differ from that of opst ording to Professor Cope ; and the animal is distinguished chiefly by othei ftions of the skeleton .
It is said to be allied to , which the author \gt ; tes from Owen 's figure in the 'Journal of the Geological Society in 1876 .
It is tted to more closely resemble Lycosaurus , in which , however , the enlarged anterior Lisor teeth of Pimetrodon are not found .
Professor Cope considered it probable that other genera , which he had named -tocynodon , Pariotichus , and Polosaurus , should be placed in this group , and MDCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 6 N 1008 PROFESSOR H. Or .
SEELEY OR THE STRUCTURE , ORGANIZATION , subsequently the number of genera was increased .
Since Professor Cope recognize the close resemblance of some of the American genera to those on which Sir B. Owei founded the order Theriodontia in 1876 , it may be convenient to quote the followin\lt ; passage ( ' Proc. Am .
Phil. Soc. , ' 1878 , p. 529 ) : " Professor Owen has named a groa of Triassic and Permian reptiles the Theriodontia , characterized by the mammal-lib differentiation of the incisor and canine teeth .
The animals thus referred by Professo Owen probably enter my sub-order , Pelycosauria ; though the structure of the pelvis remains to be ascertained .
If so , they correspond with my Clepsydropide since Professor Owen does not include herbivorous forms in his division .
As it f plain that the herbivorous and carnivorous types belong to the same order , are probably sub-order , it becomes necessary to sub-ordinate the term Theriodontia that of Pelycosauria .
To another division of reptiles from the South African Tri typified by the genus Pareiasaurus ( Owen ) he gives a special name , expressive f the deeply-impressed surfaces of the centra occupied by the ' remains of the chon dorsalis .
As this , or the perforate condition , is characteristic of all the Pelycosaur ; it is probable that it is present in Professor Owen 's Theriodontia also* It is al evident that , since the dental characters of do not serve to it as an order from the genera with distinct canine teeth , this group also must i looked upon as a sub-division , perhaps of family value , of the Pelycosauriat or otb parts of the Rhyncocephalous order .
" Prior to the foundation of the Professor Cope had referred these American fossils to the Rhyncocephalia . ?
This passage shows that the Pelycosauria was not clearly defined by any chaj\amp ; achi such as that used by Sir R Owen in characterizing the Theriodontia .
That it waa hypothetical group based chiefly upon an assumed vertebral character , which M believe , no ordinal value , for the double cones or funnel-shaped articular faces of W centrum characterize some species and genera of Sauropterygia , while in other spe\#174 ; and genera the articular faces are perfectly flat , or even have a tendency tea plano-convex condition .
When Professor Cope wrote in 1878 , no vertebra oh typical African Theriodont was described ; and therefore the predicated v e character was hypothetical for the Theriodontia , and has not been substantiated f Tretospondyli but their Anomodont character was first pointed out by Cor* ( U , \#187 ; ( . .
878 ) , ; Owen ( loo .
cit , Plate 11 ) belongs to Pareiasaurus Professor G. ( ^ p 101 ) in 1887 thought that the exact position of .
these animals could not be olb .
material then known .
He says Paremsauru , shows characters of the Sanropod , Stegosanridse , as Professor O. C. Miesh urged in 1889 ( 'Geol Mag. , p. J ' d notdi\#171 ; .
+ I do not follow Professor Cope 's argument that the dental characters of Purewwm* guisL it as an order from the genera with distinct canine teeth .
AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL HEPT1LIA .
pecimens obtained by myself .
It is also clear that Professor Cope was aware of \#166 ; anial character by which the genera Clepsydrops and Dimetrodon could be ated from the Theriodontia .
And the only ground for instituting the Pelyco-i was the hypothesis that it included the Theriodontia , and a herbivorous type imal which was distinct from the Theriodontia , but which Professor Cope could ut into a separate sub-order .
That herbivorous type was not specified , but was mably indicated by Bolosaurus , in which the teeth are transverse to the axis of awe , formed of a ledge and cusp , but without enlarged canine or incisor teeth , y also have comprised Diadectes , in which the molar teeth are of similar type rorn , and in which a distinct canine is found ( 1880 ) .
At that time Empedocles \#166 ; wards Empedias ) was only known from vertebrae .
This supposed herbivorous was not defined , nor was a name\#151 ; Cotylosauria\#151 ; suggested for it till 1880 c. Am .
Phil. Soc. ' ) .
To this day no name has been suggested for the carnivorous indicated by Clepsydrops .
1889 ( 'Am .
Not ./ p. 865 ) , Professor Cope proposed to combine the Diadectidae the Pareiasauria to form the Cotylosauria .
At that time the Pelycosauria led the families Clepsydropidae , Pariotichidae , and Bolosauridae ( ' Trans. Am .
Soc./ 1886 ) .
But in 1892 ( ' Trans. Am .
Phil. Soc. ' ) , although the Diadectidae is lentioned and Pareiasaurus remains , Professor Cope proposed to include the vorous types in the Cotylosauria , among them , which has no con- ous canine , Pantylus which has a canine developed , Pariotichus which has the e undeveloped .
The reason for this change appears to be that those genera j to have the temporal vacuities entirely roofed over .
Professor Cope at the time expressed his belief that the same condition is found in Clepsydrops .
If derstand this change of nomenclature , it is a replacement of the term Pely-iria by Cotylosauria , though this is not stated ; and the way in which the ge has been brought about shows that the author no longer attaches importance e dentition as herbivorous or carnivorous , as defining a natural group of animals , efore , the original ground for using the name Pelycosauria in preference to iodontia disappears .
But Professor Cope having placed the supposed herbivorous dosauria outside the Theriodontia in 1880 , apparently combines with them , first , Pareiasauria in 1889 , and , subsequently , the carnivorous Pelycosauria in 1892 , di had previously been in no way distinguished from Theriodonts ; defining the lP in 1892 -as having the temporal vacuities roofed by bones , which , in the figures n of carnivorous genera , include the supra-temporal bone .
I have no means of mg whether the specimens support this grouping ; for while the temporal uties are roofed in the Pareiasauria , the roof is like the parietal roof of the genus lone ; whereas , in Professor Cope 's figure of Empedias ( 'Proc .
Am .
Phil. Soc./ 19 , Plate 5 ) , which gives the only representation of the back of the skull in an -*rican genus , the skull appears to be closed behind as in Gorgonopsia .
' n't yet been clearly proved that the character upon which the Cotylosauria was established in 1880 ( the two occipital condyles widely separated from each other is a true interpretation of the specimen of Empedias molar is , or that the character i found in all members of the group .
If the order is so defined , the genus Dimetrodo and its allies would appear to belong to a different group , since Professor Cope stafi that " the occipital condyle is not perforated , nor divided by sutures .
" The assocn tion of the Diadectidse and the Pareiasauria in one group is not supported by evidetic for the large concave occipital condyle of Pareiasaurus is not comparable with tl two condyles attributed to Empedias ; nor has any evidence been brought forward t favour the idea of both animals being members of a natural group .
But while tl Cotylosauria of 1889 is a mere name , so far as I can judge from my knowledge ; Pareiasaurus and Professor Cope 's memoirs , the Cotylosauria of 1892 has no raa certain basis than the original Pelycosauria , for the definition is insufficient .
It h not been shown that any character figured or described in the back or base of tr skull of Pareiasaurus is also present in the genera Chilonyx , Pantalus , and Pan tichus , which would suggest the possibility of combining those animals , one wi Homalodont dentition , and the other with Theriodont dentition , as a natural group ' ELT11TY1 St JlS There is another aspect of the nomenclature of these American Permian fossils ; i in December , 1878 ( 'Am .
Not .
, ' p. 829 ) , Professor Cope , having defined the Anon , dontia and the Pelycosauria , united them in a larger group named Theromorpl , which the author has since proposed to change to Theromora .
It is stated that scapular arch of this order consists ' of scapula , coracoid , and epi-coracoid close united , that the three pelvic bones close the obturator foramen and the acetabuk The group is said to want the quadrato-jugal arch .
The Theromora has be accepted by Dr. George Baur , Dr. Zittel , and other naturalists ; hut so far as I\#174 ; judge from descriptions and figures , no characters were ever advanced and defined V Professor Cope which would sustain either the Pelycosauria or Theromora .
In 18 the Pelycosauria has entirely disappeared , Professor Cope closing his remarks the statement that there are four types of crania represented m the Permian Bepta , which are distinguished as Cotylosauria , .Theriodonta , Diopeus , and Anomo on H is not evident that the Theromora disappears with the Pelycosauria since referred to in the author 's latest memoir ( 1892 ) .
It is quite possible that .
American genera made known by Professor Cope belong to new groups distmct^ African types , capable of being clearly defined , and even of being combined J African types ; but it does not necessarily follow that a new group had to he fo receive the American and African sub-orders , for the evidence has never been .
out up to the present time .
Classification of the Anomodontia .
Between 1860 and 1870 there was no more authoritative summary of rie^^ cation of the South African Reptilia in use than that given by Sir R. * to AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
1011 eontolooy .
' He divided the order Anomodontia into three families\#151 ; Dicynodontia , k have a canine tooth in each maxillary bone ; Cryptodontia , with the jaws kilous , or teeth imperfectly developed ; and Cynodontia , in which the dentition , plified in the genera Galesaurus and Cynocham was fully developed as in the of carnivorous Mammals .
The first variation from this classification occurred , Professor Huxley , disregarding the Cynodontia , proposed in 1871 ( 'Manual Vert. Animals ' ) to combine Dicynodon and Oudenodon into the order Dicyno-a which stands in place of Anomodontia in Professor Huxley 's classification , he change left the Dicynodontia and the Cynodontia as two constituent members e order Anomodontia .
In 1876 , Sir ft. Owen obtained the first bone of the skeleton , other than skull , te Cynodont type , and with it evidences of new genera which resemble mammals ntition .
The Cynodontia then disappeared , its genera were absorbed in the new .
named Theriodontia .
But the definition of the Theriodontia was made in the words which had defined the Cynodontia .
" When Sir ft. Ow\en made his rtant generalization , the Dicynodontia , which had already been regarded a , s an r by Professor Huxley , were re-described under the name Anomodontia which been applied originally to both the Dicynodont and Theriodont groups of animals .
\gt ; n once issued names cease to be possessions of their originators and , as instru-:s of research , are the common property of science .
The circumstance that I. Owen , prior to 1876 , placed the same group of animals within the Anomo-ia and afterwards placed it external to the Anomodontia , appeals to subsequently ined evidence for support or refutation , ft is not possible to avoid the conclusion , although the Dicynodontia was abandoned by Sir ft. Owen , in 1876 , when he )ted the early name Bidentalia of A. Gr .
Bain , under which those animals were made known by their discoverer , the name Dicynodontia has obtained general gnition and use .
or some time f doubted whether the Theriodontia should form a separate order , grouped it as parallel to the Dicynodontia in the Anomodont order .
If the modont order is retained as dating from 1859 , there can be no doubt that 3 wide enough to include all the diversities of skull structure and dentition of nals which have the shoulder girdle and pelvis developed substantially on the a seen in Dicynodon .
- have already endeavoured to show that the Theromora was founded in error , l it is not till 1892 that Professor Cope attempted a new definition of consti-nt groups to form it , although a new classification had been proposed in 1889 .
e attempt to distinguish the order Theriodontia from the Dicynodontia which lessor Cope makes is fallacious , because he regards the post-orbital arch as .
ferently constructed in the two groups , not realizing that there is no essential fereuee between the arches , except that which results from the greater production 1012 PROFESSOR H. G. SEELEY Oil THE STRUCTURE , ORGANIZATION , downward of the squamosal bone in Dicynodonts below the zygoma , and the les production of the malar bone backward upon the outer side of the horizontal part \lt ; the squamosal bar .
As the structure of the post-orbital arch is the only different !
character mentioned by Professor Cope , his distinction between the Theriodonts are Anomodonts fails .
There is no evidence in the diagram figure that the gem Diopeus possesses the superior and inferior temporal arcades which the figm indicates .
Reasons have already been advanced for doubting the existence of t ] Cotylosauria as a natural group , so that there is some ground for regarding h Theromora as resting more on imagination than evidence .
It is not difficult t combine groups of animals together and give a name to the assemblage ; but nan ; have no value without a definition or description of the groups , which shows fir , their structures have been recognized by naturalists who have used the terms .
3 1889 ( 'Am .
Not ./ p. 863 ) Professor Cope regarded the Theromora as including sub-orders , Placodontia , Proganosauria .
Parasuchia , Anomodontia , Pelycosauria , at Cotylosauria .
In 1888 1 had ( ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' p. 383 ) proposed to include unor the order Anomodontia the Pareiasauria , Procolophonia , Dicynodontia , Gennetothea ( now named Lycosauria and combined with the Theriodontia ) , Pelycosauria , Thei-dontia , Cotylosauria , and Placodontia .
So that the only new points in Professor Cops classification were that he substituted the name Theromora for the older Anomodout ; combined the Procolophonia , Palseohatteriidse , Homoeosauridse , Protorosauridse , Rhy chosauridse , and Mesosauria , as the Proganosauria , without evidence of community^ structure ; combined the Pareiasauria and Cotylosauria , equally without eviden* ; and included the Parasuchia , stated to comprise the Belodontidae and probably e Aetosauridse , but without finding the precoracoid bone , or showing how the pels differed from that of the Saurischia , which alone could justify the grouping .
I think that the American fossils forming the Diadectidse fall within the definite of the Therosauria , being parallel to the Gomphodontia of Africa , but distinct fin the Therodontia as a sub-order on the evidence of the structure of the palate , ; e back of the skull , and possibly the roof of the brain case ; and I am aware of \lt ; \gt ; valid reason why the name Cotylosauria should not be retained foi this group sense in which it was originally given , to the exclusion of its later applications .
the same way the genera which are allied to Clepsydrops , which have been the Pelycosauria , should , I think , retain that name , unless it can be proved that % can be comprised in the Lycosaurian division of the Theriodontia ; in favour ofw " no evidence is available .
There is no proof that they have the palatal characters the Therosuchia , though this is probable from their affinity with the Diadectidse .
The following is a summary of the Classification : AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
'tinct Keptilia in which the precoracoid is developed and unites by suture with oracoid and scapula to form the shoulder-girdle .
The clavicular arch includes clavicle and clavicles .
The pelvic acetabulum is closed ; the pubis smaller than schium , and the ilium usually developed both in front of and behind the bulum .
There is a ventral symphysis of the pubes and ischia .
The articular of the centra are biconcave or flat .
The pterygoid- bones join the sphenoid by e There is a single post-orbital arch which may be masked by the temporal ties being roofed over .
e Anomodontia includes two principal orders , Therosuchia and Therochelonia , apparently the Mesosauria .
It is nearly related to Protorosauria and Notho-i ; as well as to Ornithosauria and Saur ischia .
Therosuchia comprise\#151 ; Pareiasauria , Procolophonia , Gorgonopsia , Dinocephalia , Deuterosauria , Placodontia , Theriodontia \lt ; '"Lycosauria , Cynodontia , ^Gomphodontia , Endothiodontia , [ Theromora* ] L l Cotylosauria Therochelonia comprises\#151 ; Dicynodontia , Kistecephalia.t Mesosauria or Proganosauria .
Nothosauria ?
Therosuchia .
he palatine and transverse bones of the palate are produced outward and usually nward , in an arch , which abuts against the inner side of the mandible , this racter defines the order from the Eicynodonts , Mesosaurs , Nothosaurs , and all fossil ups of reptiles .
There are more or less completely divided heads to dorsal ribs .
* This group has no authority at present , and is subject to future definition , t The palate is undescribed .
A foramen of variable size occurs between ischium and pubis .
The crest of the ilim extends on both sides of the acetabulum .
Sub-order\#151 ; r-P areiasaoria .
Temporal vacuities of the skull roofed over as in a large single ( conca\ occipital condyle ; sphenoidal region short ; transverse palatine processes directed q and forward .
Teeth conical or with compressed cuspidate crowns , not divided \#171 ; .
incisors , canines , and molars .
Ribs with the heads deep and occasionally divide Procolophon appears to be the type of a division of the order .
Types :\#151 ; Pareiasaurus and Procolophon .
S ub - order\#151 ; Gorgonopsi a .
Temporal vacuities roofed over , with the broad brain-case closed behind , ssq Kistecephalus , by a vertical occipital plate .
Skull bones thin , enclosing an inteir cartilage .
The palato-nares are placed far forward , without any indication of a hj| palate forming a platform in front of them .
The teeth appear to have been point ! .
[ At present only incisors and canines are known .
] Types :\#151 ; .* Sub-order\#151 ; Dinooephalta .
Temporal vacuities small .
Cerebral region between them wide , and usuly expanded above the brain-case .
Skull bones are enormously thick ; no lifei cartilage to the brain-case .
Palato-nares placed far forward .
Occipital coni single , convex .
Teeth with canines sometimes developed .
Molar teeth poin ; d : convex in front , concave behind , with serrated borders , and a transverse inwa : !
} developed ledge .
Types :\#151 ; Delphinognathus and Tapinocephalus .
Sub-order\#151 ; Deuterosauria .
The palato-nares are ovate vacuities divided by the vomerine bones opening iris palate as in Nothosaurus .
The sphenoid bar makes an angular bend with the pa\#187 ; * Mr R. Lydekker states that , " in the roofing of the temporal fossa Gorgonops agrees withflMI and also with the Pareiasanrid* " ( ' Cat. Foss .
Rept .
Brit. Mus. , ' Part 4 , p. Ill ) , . .
1 \#153 ; i_ ._____in ( JnrannnnR there aDDears to have been a and also with the Pareiasanricue \lt ; / uar .
r oss .
imp* .
\#151 ; \#151 ; \gt ; - \#151 ; - r\#151 ; -roofed in the sense in which Chelone is roofed , while in Go Chilonyxagrees with either type .
AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILE A. i in the same plane with the occiput .
The incisor teeth are strongly developed scie types ; the molar teeth are strongly developed in others .
The bones of .Loulder girdle and principal limb bones resemble those of Pareiasaurus and yodonts .
The horizontal processes of the ilium are but slightly developed .
The cdontia form a division of the order .
Types :\#151 ; Deuterosaurus and Rhopalodon .
Sub-order\#151 ; Theriodontia .
'h occipital plate is usually concave .
The parietal crest is narrow with large tpral vacuities , and a zygoma into which the malar bone enters .
The anterior e are terminal ; the palato-nares are defined by a hard palate .
The teeth vble incisors , canines , and molar teeth of mammals in form and position .
The e comprises : j Lycosauria , with small pointed molars without cusps , but usually serrated ; he squamosal pedicle of the skull descends behind the lower jaw .
Cynodontia , in which the large molar teeth have a few lateral cusps like s of carnivorous mammals .
The quadrate bone is small .
The occipital condyle / shaped , consisting of two parts , connected below , so as to have the aspect of two ofles when seen from above .
Gomphodontia , in which the molar teeth are more or less transverse with rverse ridges , on which there may be cusps , tubercles , or crenulations , which are r down with use .
Occipital condyle V-shaped in two lateral parts .
Types :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Lycosaurus , ( 2 ) Cynognathus ( 3 ) Gomphognathus .
Sub-order\#151 ; Endothiodontia .
lie posterior nares are bordered in front by the hard palate , but the palatine bones ot meet in the median line below them , as those bones meet in the Theriodontia .
Me are no incisor teeth .
When teeth are developed on the palate they may be riged in series or irregularly scattered .
The lower jaw does not develop a coronoid csss .
It is excavated externally in front of the articulation , apparently by the aieter muscle .
Type:\#151 ; Endothiodon .
Sub-order\#151 ; Theromora .
o characters have been given to define this group by structure of the skull .
I , U ) it as including the genera enumerated in Professor Cope s systematic catalogue \#166 ; ans .
Am .
Phil. Soc. , ' 1886 ) .
It is retained provisionally to comprise the American deccxciv.\#151 ; b. 6 o Pelycosauria , 1878 , and Cotylosauria , 1880 ; but no characters have been found unite those groups ; and there is no published evidence to show that both have tl palate of the Therosuchia .
Pelycosauria was defined in 1889 as having the ribs tw headed , and vertebral centra generally Notochordal .
To this may be added occiph condyle single .
The Cotylosauria was defined at the same time as having the ri .
single-headed , with the temporal vacuities of the skull roofed over .
There appe .
to be two occipital condyles ; but the character has not been confirmed .
Types :\#151 ; Clepsydrops and Therochelonia .
In this order of animals there is general resemblance in the plan of the palate\#187 ; the Chelonia , which distinguishes it from the Therosuchia , while some parts of e skeleton approximate towards mammals .
The pterygoid bones meet in line of the palate behind the posterior nares without being divided by an mterveng sphenoidal keel or bar .
The palatine bones are not developed transversely outwd and downward to form an arch behind the palato-nares .
There is no platJ^Kcfl truncated hard palate covering the front of the posterior nares .
The extend occipital plate is more or less vertical .
The single occipital condyle is often triparfe .
The large quadrate bones , covered externally by the squamosal , form the articulate for the lower jaw .
Sub-order\#151 ; Dicynodontia .
Premaxillary bone single without teeth .
Nares never extending in advance ofle anterior extremity of the palate .
No developed coronoid process to the lower jv .
Squamosal bone produced below the zygomatic arch .
The only teeth known present are canine teeth in the skull .
Articular faces of vertebra flat .
Type '.\#151 ; Dicynodon .
Kistecephalus may be the type of a second sub-order .
The skull bones enclosing a large cartilage .
The palate is imperfectly known .
Proganosauria or Mesosauria .
iS , nine vertebra .
The humerus has a form seen in some Edentata , wi * , \#166 ; condylar foramen .
' Types :\#151 ; Stereosternum and Mesosaurus .
AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTIL1A .
1017 ere is no proof that either of the following groups can be included in the lodontia , but they approximate to the type in opposite ways .
Nothosauria .
e palato-nares open as in Dicynodontia and Mesosauria , except that they are \gt ; lie divided by the vomerine bones and have the palatine bones chiefly developed d them .
There is a similar transverse constriction of the flattened pterygoid i , and similar conditions of the occiput , occipital condyle , and quadrate bone , rertebree are single-headed ; the neck is elongated .
The humerus indicates both ind ent-epieondylar perforations .
There is a foramen between the pubis and im , a posterior notch in the pubis ; and the ilium appears to be but slightly oped .
The pre-coracoid is not ossified , but its place is indicated by a vacuity 3en the scapula and coracoid .
The Neusticosauria are probably to be placed in association with the Nothosauria , and they may eventually prove to form with 'roganosauria , the group Mesosauria.** Type:\#151 ; Nothosaurus .
Protorosaurta .
tis group is not represented by any genus in which the palate and back of the are known from well-preserved evidence .
It is , therefore , impossible to affirm it can be extended to include the Stereorachia and Palseohatteria as appears to be improbable .
Protorosaurus has the larger limb-bones hollow .
Its affinities in jlavicular arch , and forms of the humerus and femur , to described Anomodontia , e its reference to that group not improbable .
These resemblances suggest that interior nares were in the extremity of the snout which is lost .
Type :\#151 ; Protorosaurus .
he relations of the Protorosauria and Nothosauria to the Anomodontia are ressed in the following arrangement of the Sauromorpha .
Sauromorpha .
Phynchocephalia .
Protorosauria .
Anomodontia .
Nothosauria .
Sauropterygia .
Chelonia .
* ' Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , ' 1892 , vol. 48 , p. 586 .
Explanation of Plate .
PIATE 88 .
Fig. 1 .
Palatal aspect of the skull ofLycosciurus curvimola : the original type specirr^ 47339 , in the British Museum .
It shows the Lycosaurian dentitioiof incisor ( ? .
) , canine ( c. ) , and ( m. ) molar teeth .
Within the mandible , le palato-nares are exposed .
Extending laterally behind the palato-narek S the transverse palatine arch ( \#163 ; .
) which abuts against the inner sideof the mandible ; and behind this arch is the compressed* , sharp , pre-spheid keel , flanked on each side by the pterygoid bones .
Behind the e\gt ; sphenoid keel is the concave area of the basi-sphenoid .
Natural size .
Fig. 2 .
The palatal region of JElurosaurus felinus .
The area within the mandibl ig drawn from the original type specimen , It .
339 , British Museum , he pre-sphenoid keel ( ps .
) maybe compared with that of Lycosaurus , as ay the transverse palatine arch ( .
) , on which teeth are developed .
T.ve are patches of teeth on the palatine bones ( pi .
) ; the larger teeth in fiat are regarded as vomerine .
The figure is twice natural size .
Fig. 3 .
Palatal aspect of the anterior part of the skull of , j showing the incisor teeth , one to six in each pre-maxillary bone , he canines ( c. ) , and pre-molars ( pm .
) .
Within these teeth is the mandle .
with the two rami formed of the dentary bones , which are not unitedly synostosis at the symphysis .
The hind splint of the splenial bone ie* within the dentary bone .
Incisors are seen at the extremity of he mandible , and the roots of the mandibular canine are exposed behindbe symphysis by abrasion .
Natural size .
Fig. 4 .
Palatal aspect of the anterior part of the skull of Cryptocynodon simus , sb ing ( c. ) the immature canine teeth ; behind and internal to which is !
\#174 ; ; single row of teeth on the palate .
Natural size .
Fig. 5 .
Outline of the anterior aspect of the same skull .
The anterior nares well separated in front , and the orbits ( oo .
) are widely separated bebd .
Within the anterior arch of the mouth the teeth upon the palate it indicated ( rat .
) .
Natural size .
J\#174 ; Fig. 6 .
Internal aspect of the dentary bone of Tribolodon from Lady Frere , showg the angle of the jaw , and the coronoid process .
The other bones compose the lower jaw are lost from the slightly grooved surface The teeth are remarkable for their distance from each other , and he : it above the alveolar margin .
Natural size .
, \#166 ; j Fig. 7 .
A single tooth of Tribolodon enlarged , showing its aspect from the mnSr of the jaw , PhvL .
Trasns .
1894 .
B. Plated .
CtM Woo clwa-r \amp ; \amp ; eL et litJi .

