]\gt ; On the Collision of Elastic Bodies .
III .
' On the Collision of Elastic Bodies By S. H. BURBURY , F.R.S. Received October 24 , 1891 .
( Abstracl .
) 1 .
In this paper I discuss , firstly , a case gested by Sir W. Thomson on June 11 as a test of the truth of the -Boltzmann doctrine concerning the distriblltion of energy .
Sir .
supposes a nulnbcr of hollow elastic ) heres , each contalnIng a smallel to move within it .
Tbis pair he calls a doublet .
If be the velocity of the centre of of a doublet , relative velocity of the two sphel.es , then , under the butlon 1 question , for given direction of , all ections of are equally probable , and the converse is also true .
If a collision occul 's , the change of direction of due to it is independent of the direction of , as well as of the magnitudes of and R. Therefore , lfter collisions , as well as before , for direction all dil'ections of are eq.nall.y probable .
Whence it fol'Iows that the distribution of velocltles unaffected by collisions .
This appears to me to be sound as well for internal as for external colJisions .
2 .
The aracteristic of collisions of conventional elastic bodies is the discontinuous change in the velocities without alteration of the .
If that occurs for any material system of degrees of freedom , there are independent lineal ' functions of the velocities which remain , call them , and o1le , which is unaltered in magnitude but reversed in sign .
3 .
The kinetic energy cannot contain any of the products , but must be of the form , where is a dratic fullction of these quantities .
4 .
If after collision the velocities were all reversed in sign , and would be reversed in sign. .
The system would retrace its c.ourse , undergoing collisiotl , into would be positive before and negative after collision .
wouId be throughout negative , i.e. , of opposite signs to the they had in the first case .
5 .
To define a collision , we assume th a function of the coordinates and constants cannot become positive , and when being positive , changes sign d , and a collision occurs .
It follows that is or proportional to R. 6 .
What has been pro for a system holds equal .
for a pair of systems , having coordinates for the one , and for the other , if 1/ / be a function of , which cannot become positive .
7 .
All those systems for which , at a given instant , lies between 176 .
S. H. Burbury .
[ Nov. zero and being positive , will undergo collision within the after that instant .
Therefore or measurer the freqnency of collislon .
8 .
From the linear equations connecting with and , we can find , say , as a linear function of and v as the functiou of , . . .
and -R .
Therefol .
, and , where the 's are funrtions of the coordinates and constants .
Now lot go through all values consistent with , and let be the number in unit volume of systems which h they lie between and , \amp ; c. , and and the coordinates within certain limits .
Then Now , in the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution , is a function of the kinetic energy only , and , therefore , constant through- this ratiou .
Therefore . .
, .
because for every set of values of there is included in the integration another set with reversed sigJlS .
expresses the mean value of for all collisions , given and , and since it is zero , the distribution of velocities is not altered by collision , or the Maxwell tzmann tribution , given existing , is not affected by collisions .
9 .
Certain examples given showing the values of and given cases , .
:\mdash ; I. lastic spheres of masses and II .
astic spheres with spheroids .
10 .
Professor Burnside 's of a set of equal and similar spheres , each of which , instead of being homogelleous , has its centre of inerbia at a small , from the centre of figure .
Discusof his result , does not with the Maxwell-Boltznlann doctrine , as 1 believe , to an oversight .
11 .
A general proof is now iven of the permanence of the dis bution , , if be a set of systems called ystem M having On Collision of Elastic Bodies .
177 ooordinates , and set called with coordinates Let or F. be the number of systems with coordinates and velocities between . . . . . . . . . . . .
( ) , and and the corresponding number for the other set , between limits and , \amp ; c. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( B ) .
Let be a fullction , such that when a collisiotl occurs .
Then or denotes the frequency of collision .
And .
R. denotes the number in unit of time of collisions between members of { he two sets having their coordinates and velocities he number in unit time of collisio1ls in the reverse direction is In the ibution F functions of the kinetic only , and this being the same in the two states , .
And as many as reverse collisions take in unit time , which lsurcs the of the tion .
12 .
If , thelt the number of bystems of the kind whose coordinates and velocities lie between and \amp ; c. , and \amp ; c. , is increased ) unib of time by collisions with the second set , hnving coordinales and velocities between and \amp ; c. , and \amp ; c. , by the quantity and by collision with systems without restriclion by the quantity creased or shed by any 1L eans except by collision with system .
If that be so , and Rlog By symmetry , Now if and therefore ( Ff ) By symmetry , as we may interchange the accents , and therefore which is necessarily negative , if not zero , and then only zero when , that when .
the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution prevails .
13 .
It be shown ) case of elastic bodies that is not 0 the Collision of Elastic Bodies .
179 1891 .
] except by collisions , provided and become zero when any of ths velocities becomes infinite .
14 .
The rate at which approaches its minimum is found in the case of two sets of elastic spheres of masses and , whose numbers in unit volume are and , as ] \mdash ; Let , where is the minimum to which tends .
is defined to be the disturbance and the rate of subsidence .
Suppose that the unit volume of spheres having velocities between and towards the element of volume is , in which is written for in the usual expression for that number .
Similarly for the spheres , shall be writteu for .
It is assumed that the enel .
is not altered by the bauce , which requires that and are Upposed so small that and are to be neglected .
Then we find and where is the sum of the radii of and Hence and is proportional to { he density and to the square root of the absolute temperature .

