1889 .
] On an Effect of Light upon .
III .
" On an Effect of Light upon Magnetism .
" By SHELFORD Bidwell , M.A. , F.R.S. Received March 11 , 1889 .
Several experimenters in the early part of the present century tried to magnetise iron and steel by the action of light , * but I do not know of any recent attempts in this direction , and of late years the thing has been generally regarded as impossible .
Under ordinary circumstances there can be little doubt that this is the case , but , if a certain condition is fulfilled^ we might , I think , expect to find some evidence of the action of radiation upon the magnetism of iron .
The condition is that the susceptibility of the bar AB to be operated upon shall be greater ( or less ) for a magnetic force in the direction AB than for an equal one in the direction BA .
This paper contains a short preliminary account of a series of experiments which have been undertaken with iron bars having this property .
Much yet remains to be done , which will require a considerable amount of time , and for which special apparatus must be constructed .
In the meantime , the results already obtained appear to possess sufficient interest to justify their publication .
The method of preparing the bars is as follows : A piece of soft iron rod , which may conveniently be 10 or 12 cm .
long and from 0'5 to 1 cm .
in diameter " , is raised to a bright yellow heat and slowly cooled .
When cold , it is placed inside a solenoid , through which is passed a battery current of sufficient strength to produce a field of about 350 or 400 C.G.S. units .
The iron when removed from the coil is found to he permanently magnetised , and its north pole is marked for the sake of distinction with red sealing-wax varnish .
The bar is then Supported horizontally and in an east and west direction behind a small reflecting magnetometer , and over it is slipped a coil , which is shunted with a rheostat , the resistance of which can be gradually increased from 0 to 26 ohms .
The coil can be connected by a key with a single battery cell , which is so arranged as to produce a demagnetising force inside the coil .
The resistance of the rheostat is slowly raised , so that more and more current passes through the coil , the battery key being alternately lifted and depressed until the magnetometer indicates that the iron bar as a whole is perfectly demagnetised .
The strength of the demagnetising force required varies according to circumstances : it is generally about one-thirtieth or one-twenty-fifth of the original magnetising force .
After this treatment the iron rod does not differ , so far as ordinary tests will show , from one which has never been submitted to mag- khrystal , ' Encycl .
Britann./ vol. 15 , p. 274 , mentions the following names :\#151 ; orichini , Mrs. Somerville , Christie , -Riess , and Moser .
On an Effect of Light upon .
[ Mar. 21 , netic influences .
Nevertheless , as is well known , it possesses certain properties which distinguish it from a piece of really virgin iron .
In the first place , the magnetisation induced by a force acting in suet a direction as to make the marked end a north pole , is greater than that caused by an equal force in an opposite direction .
Again , if such a bar be held horizontally east and west ( to avoid terrestrial influences ) , and tapped with a mallet , the marked end at once becomes a north pole .
A similar effect follows if the rod be warmed in the flame of a spirit-lamp .
Lastly , if it be placed inside a coil and subjected to the action of a series of rather feeble magnetic forces , of equal strength but alternating in direction , the marked end will generally become a north pole , even though the last of the alternate forces may have tended to induce the opposite polarity .
A rod treated as above described appears to be remarkably sensitive to the action of light .
When such a rod is placed behind the magnetometer , and illuminated by an oxyhydrogen lamp about 70 cm .
distant , there occurs an immediate deflection of from 10 to 200 scale divisions , * the magnitude of the effect varying in different specimens of iron .
As the action of the light is continued , the deflection slowly increases .
When the light is shut off , the magnetometer instantly goes back over a range equal to that of the first sudden deflection , then continues to move slowly in the backward direction towards zero .
The first quick movement I believe may be due to the direct action of radiation , and the subsequent slow movement to the gradually rising temperature of the bar .
With a thick rod ( 1 cm .
in diameter ) the slow movement is barely perceptible , extending over only one or two scale divisions in the course of a minute , the spot of light becoming almost stationary after the first sudden jump .
With a thin rod the sudden effect is generally smaller , while the slow after-effect is greater and may continue until the spot of light passes off the scale .
As a general rule the magnetic effect is such as to render the marked end of the rod a north pole : occasionally , however , it becomes a south pole , but in such cases I have always found that the polarity is comparatively feeble .
It may even happenf that the marked end becomes north when certain portions of the rod are illuminated , and south when the light acts upon other portions .
This is probably da\#174 ; to irregular annealing and a consequent local reversal of the direction of maximum susceptibility : it indicates that the light effect is local , and is confined to the illuminated surface .
In one remarkable specimen , which happens not to have been annealed at all , the sadden effect and the slow effect are in opposite directions .
When the light * The magnetometer mirror was 1 metre distant from the scale and each division \#171 ; = 0'64 mm. inch ) .
+ This has been observed in two specimens .
1889.J The Recalescence of Iron .
is turned upon this rod , there is at first a sudden deflection of twenty magnetometer-scale-divisions to the left , the spot afterwards moving slowly and steadily towards the right .
When the light is shut off there occurs at once a jump of twenty divisions further towards the right before the spot begins to move back in the zero direction .
Some attempts have been made to repeat the experiments with light polarised by means of a Nmol 's prism ; but , either because the largest prism at my disposal was too small ( its aperture being barely 2 cm .
) , or because too much of the radiant energy was absorbed by the spar , I failed to get any magnetic effects whatever with the prism in either position .
[ Professor Silvanus Thompson has quite recently been kind enough to lend me a very large and excellent Nmol 's prism .
From a few experiments already made with this instrument it appears that the action of the light is quite independent of the plane of polarisation.\#151 ; * .
' March 16 .
] , There can be no doubt whatever of the reality of the effects here described : they are perfectly distinct , and are at any time reproducible with certainty .
The only question is how much of them is primarily caused by the action of light , and how much by mere incidental change of temperature .
But taking all the circumstances into consideration , I think the evidence is in favour of the conclusion that the instantaneous magnetic change , which occurs when are prepared iron bar is illuminated , is purely and directly an effect of radiation .
IV .
" Recalescence of Iron .
" By J. Hopkinson , F.R.S. Received March 7 , 1889 .
Professor Barrett has observed that if an iron wire be heated to a bright redness and then be allowed to cool , that this cooling does not go on continuously , but that after the wire has sunk to a very dull red it suddenly becomes brighter , and then continues to cool down .
He surmised that the temperature at which this occurs is the temperature S ' which the iron ceases to be magnetisable .
In repeating Professor arrett s experiments , I found no difficulty in obtaining the phenomenon with hard steel wire , but I failed to observe it in the case of soft iron wire , or in the case of manganese steel wire .
It appeared o be of interest to determine the actual temperature at which the P enomenon occurred , and also the amount of heat which was rated .
Although other explanations of the phenomenon have \#169 ; n offered , there can never , I think , have been much doubt that it was ue to the liberation of heat owing to some change in the ria , and not due to any change in the conductivity or emissive were .
My method of experiment was exceedingly simple .
I took a VOL. XLV .

