]\gt ; The nsmission of Electric Waves around the 's Surface .
By Prof. H. M. MACDONALD , F.R.S. ( Received January 10 , \mdash ; Read February 1 ?
, 1914 .
) In a previous communication , expression for the netic force at any point when a Hertzian oscillator is placed outside a perfectly conducting sphere was obtained , and the principal parts of this were.evaluated ; in particular it was found that when the point is inside the geometrica ] shadow and at an angular distance from the line of contact of the shadow with the surface which is of higher order than , the ratio , of the magnetic force to the magnetic force due to the oscillator alone is a Gilbert integral ; when the point and the oscillator both approach the surface this integral tends to zero , but it may be expected to give information as to the way the magneticforce dies away in the neighbourhood where it has diminished to order The magnetic force on the when the oscillator is also on the surface was reinvestigated by Poincare , and he indicated that the magnetic force at angular distance from the oscillator is of the form , where A and depend on the zero of , for which is least .
The value of this zero was calculated by Nicholson , also calculated the value of A. The value givenS .
by im does not agree with the coefficient of the corresponding term in the series found below ; this may be due to the fact that the process of summation employed by him is invalid as it assumes that is a meromorphic function of , which is not true .
The problem has recently been discussed by and Bybczynskil ; the discussion in the second of these papers is very interesting , but the singularity of the integrand which contributes ultimately alone to the result is one which appears to have been introduced in the process , and which is not a singularity of the original expression for which the rand is an approximation .
The author remarks on the impossibility of representing the facts by a single exponential as the oscillator is approached ; this is fully borne out below .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 210 , p. 113 ( 1909 ) .
' Rendiconti Palermo , ' vol. 29 ( 1910 ) .
Phil. Mag 1911 .
S 'Phil .
Mag April , 1910 .
'Ann .
der Phys vol. 37 .
'Ann .
der Phys vol. 41 .
Transmission of Electric around the Earth 's .
51 In what follows a series is obtained which represents the magnetic force at any point on the surface when the oscillator is also on the surface ; the series rapidly for large values of , and for large values the first term is a sufficient approximation .
For small values of the series converges very slowly .
Tables showing the fall in amplitude with increase of distance have been calculated for different wave-lengths .
The magnetic force at a point , whose distance from.the centre of the sphere is , and whose angular distance from the oscillator is , is given by where is the distance of the oscillator from the centre of the sphere , is the radius of the sphere , is the of the oscillations , and .
Writing this becomes e .
( 1 ) It has been proved that , when the point is outside the boundary of the geometrical ow and on the side of the sphere remote from the oscillator , the principal part of is contributed by two sets of terms of the series ( 1 ) , where the rate of oscillation of the series is small ; for one of these sets of terms the values of are less than and for the other set the value of are .
greater than .
As the point approaches the boundary of the geometrical shadow , the values of for which the rate of oscillation of the series vanishes both approach , and therefore , when the point is near to the boundary of the geometrical shadow or inside it , the principal part of the series is contributed by the terms for which is in the neighbourhood of For the special case , where the point is on the surface , since e$(i ) .
Prof. H. M. Macdonald .
The Transmission of the relation ( 1 ) becomes The sum of the terms of this series , for which ' is of higher order than , is at most of the order , where is the value of at the point due to the oscillator alone ; the sum of the terms of the series for which is of higher order than is also at most of the order , for can be expressed in the fonn in the neighbourhood of any such term .
Hence the terms of the series 2 ) which are important are those for which is of the same or of lower order than .
Now , when is of the same or of lower order than to the order of approximation required satisfies the differential equation where ; writing this differential equation becomes the solution of which is where is Bessel 's function with imaginary argument .
Again , to the same order of approximation , therefore that is and or .
( 3 ) 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 210 , p. 117 .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 210 , p. 136 .
Electric Waves around the Earth 's .
53 Further } that is whence A knowledge of the zeros of is required for the treatment of the series ( 2 ) , and these will now be discussed .
The function is an integral function of , and therefore what is required is the values of for which it vanishes .
Since is unaltered when is written for , it will be sufficient to consider values of whose arguments -lie between and ; now ) has no zeros whose moduli are finite when the argument of is greater than and less than therefore has no zeros whose moduli are finite and whose arguments are greater than S and less than .
When the argument of lies between and S , writing that is .
which has no zeros whose arguments lie between and and whose moduli are finite .
When the argument of lies between and , writing that is Hence the zeros of are the values of that correspond to the real values of } that satisfy the relation Now and where ; *Nacdonald , Lond. Math. Soc. Proc vol. 30 , p. 173 ( 1899 ) .
Prof. H. M. Macdonald .
The Transmission of therefore bhat is or Therefore the zeros of re the real values of x$ which satisfy the relation where ' The values of which satisfy the above are given by the relation , where is any positive integer including zero , that is by the relation where Hence the values of , which are zeros of are given by ' , where i.s the real cube root of and is determined by the relation ( 4 ) .
The corresponding values of are given by , for For the calculations in view a fairly accurate value of is required , and only a rough approximation for .
The relation ( 4 ) is unsuitable for , the evaluation of , but it can readily be obtained from the relation and its value to four places of decimals is .
Approximations for the next two zeros are ; the remaining zeros can be obtained very accurately from the relation For the special case where the oscillator is very near to the surface , can be taken to be equal to except for points very near to the oscillator , and the relation ( 2 ) then becomes Electric Waves around the 's Surface .
Since the important terms of the series are those for which is of the same or of lower order than , the principal .
part of is equal to the principal part of where the summation is extended on both sides of , the appropriate approximations for given by relation 3 ) being substituted .
Since 7 ' the values of involved in the summation are all large the appropriate approximation for is given whence and- the series becomes Now , to the order of approximation required , and the series becomes .
Again therefore the principal part of is given by where ; The functions , are integral functions of , therefore can be expressed in the form ' where is the value of when 'Lond .
Math. Soc. ' vol. 31 , p. 269(1899 ) .
Prof H. M. Macdonald .
The nsmission of that is and ; hence The principal part of is the integral 3 .
for and since the exponential tends to zero at infinity in the upper half of the plane , and only singularity of { , he integrand at a finite distance , viz. , is in the lower half of the plane , this integral vanishes and therefore the principal part of vanishes .
The principal part of is the ralb 3 .
and the exponential tends to zero at infinity in the lower half of the plane , therefore this integral is equivalent to the integral where the path of integration is any closed curve , which encloses the singularity of the integrand , that is ; the value of this integral is whence the principal part of is and therefore the principal part of is given by Electric Waves around the Earth 's If is the value of due to the oscillato alone , the principal part of is hence When the .
point is at a considerable distance from the oscillator the first term of this series will give a sufficient approximation , but , as the distance from the oscillatordiminishes , a greater number of terms is required , and , when the distance is such that is small , the series converges very slowly , ultimately tending to the form , since from ( 4 ) tends to , wheu is a large number , and this series diverges .
The value to which tends as tends to zero can be obtained as follows .
The series tends to the same value as the integral that is as the integral which the value , and therefore , as tends to zero , tends to the value , the value to be expected .
The preceding analysis neglects the terms for which is of higher order than ; it will now be proved that the inclusion of these terms does not affect the result , for , when is of higher order than the approximate value of is , and when of higher order than the approximate value is that is in both cases .
Further approximates to the value , that is for all values of except those which lie in the neighbourhood of the line .
The series ( 2 ) now becomes * Phil. Trans , vol. 210 .
58 Prof H. M. Macdonald .
and it appears at once , when the summati the inclusion of these terms has not altere is not altered .
The values of the amplitude of the ratio the value of the amplitude of the ratio of the electric force in the same direction calculated from the formula for values of of arc ; in the calculation the first term the effect of the second term is negligible the last column and the first entry in second place of decimals is possibly affec that correspond to the values 50 , 40 , 32 earth 's surface wave-lengths of 320 , distance in miles is given in the second Electric Waves around the Earth 's Surface .
To find the absolute value of the ratio of the electric forces at two different distances it has to be observed that if and are these distances , and the electric forces at them , then the ratio of the two numbers in the table corresponding to and is the ratio sin$/ ; for example , for a wave-length of 6000 metres , the ratio for distances of 600 and 1200 miles is very approximately 1/ 12 .
The.effect of the distance of the oscillator from the surface , when this tance is very small compared with the radius of the sphere , can be obtained from the series ( 2 ) .
For , being very small compared with egecting- higher powers of than , that is , where is the angular distance of the line of contact of the geometrical shadow with the sphere from the oscillator , and , therefore , the principal part of is equal to the principal part of From this , by the previous analysis , it foIlows that $ In this case and , to the order required .
where As diminishes and becomes very small , the series converges more slowly than , but as tends towards tends towards the same value as the integral which has the value 60 nsmission of Electric Waves the Earth 's Surface .
and therefore as tends to tends to the value , that is to the value 2 which is finite .
When the point on the surface is at a distance from the oscillator for which .
the first term in each series is alone significant , the ratio of the amplitude of the terrn due to the height of the oscillator above the surface to the term independen of the height is , that is For a height of 500 feet and a wave-length corresponding to the value of this ratio is approximately The result can also be obtained when the point and the oscillator are both at very small distances from the surface .
For , writing it follows that that is where is the angular distance of the line of contact of the cone from the point to the surface from the point , and , therefore , to the same order as in the former case , From the previous analysis it immediately follows that Absorption of Gases at a Gold Surface .
that is The corresponding results for a perfectly absorbing surface or an imperfectly conducting surface can be obtained from the above .
* The- Electrical Condition of a Gold Surface during the tion of and their Combustion .
By HAROLD HARTLEY , M.Sc .
( Communicated by Prof. William A. Bone , F.R.S. Received January 26 , \mdash ; Read March 12 , 1914 .
) Introduction .
In 1905 Bone and Wheeler , in their memoir upon " " The Combination of Hydrogen and Oxygen in Contact with Hot SurfaoeS , drew attention to the possible connection between the electrical conditions of hot surfaces and their-power of rendering " " condensed\ldquo ; or " " occluded\ldquo ; gases chemically active .
Shortly afterwards Bone and Makower , in a series of unpublished experiments , observed that a gold surface becomes negatively electrified during the catalytic combination of hydrogen and oxygen at 30 or thereabouts .
The recent inventions , by Bone and his co-workers , of processes of " " flameless incandescent surface combustion whereby the constituents of an explosive gaseous mixture , in correct combining proportions , are caused to combine at a highly accelerated rate , and without development of flame , in contact with ( or within the pores or interstices of ) an incandescent solid , have again called attention to the important played by hot surfaces in accelerating combustion , and to the great economic advantages derivable therefrom .
The phenomenon is now known to depend upon a peculiar " " activation\ldquo ; of the combustible gas , and probably of the oxygen also , by 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 212 , p. 337 1913 ) .
Late holder of the Fellowship for Gas Research established by the Institution of Gas Engineers at the University of Leeds .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 206 , pp. 1-67 ( 1906 ) .

