PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
Munday November 19 .
1666 .
The Contents .
An Addition to the Instances of Petrification , formerly enumerated .
Articles of Inquiries concerning Mines ; as , to the neighbouring Country about them ; the Soil where they are ; the Signs of them ; the Structure and other particulars belonging to the Mines themselves ; the Nature and Circumstances of Ore ; and the Reduction of Ore into Metal .
Promiscuous Inquiries formerly recommended to Monsieur Heuelius , particularly about Cold ; together with his own , and his Correspondents Answer to some of them .
The success of the Experiment of Transfusing the Blood of one Animal into another .
An Addition to the Instances of Petrification , enumerated in the last of these Papers .
This Instance was some while since communicated to the Royal Society by that Ingenious Gentleman Mr. Philip Packer , a worthy Member of that Body ; in these words ; ON a Bank in a Close of Mr. Purefoy , near his house , called Wadley , a mile from Farrington in Berks , there grows an Elm , which hath now lost the top , and is grown hollow , containing near a Tun of Timber .
From the But of the same Tree , one of the spreading Claws having been formerly cut off with an Axe ; that part of the But , from whence the same was severed , being about 11/ 2foot above ground , and inward within the trunk of the Tree , hath contracted a petrfied Crust , about the thickness of a shilling , all over the woody part within the Bark ; the Marks of the Axe also remaining very conspicuous , with this petrified crust upon it .
By what means it should thus happen , cannot well be conceived , in regard there is no water near it ; the part , above the ground and out of the weather ; the Tree yet growing : unless being cut at some season , when the sap was flowing , the owsing of the sap might become petrified by the Air , and the Tree grow rotten and hollow inward since that time ; which how long since , is not known .
A piece of that part cut , was presented , together with this Account , to the said Society , for their Repository .

