504 Transmission and Inoculability of Spirillum Theileri ( Laveran ) .
By Dr. A. Theilee .
( Communicated by Colonel David Bruce , R.A.M.C. , F.R.S. Received June 28 , 1905 .
) In 1903 Laveran* described , under the name of Spirillum Theileri , a microorganism which I had found several times in sick cattle .
In 1904 I described six cases.f These cases , however , in my opinion did not represent a pure infection of Spirillum , since lesions were present in the red corpuscles , such as basophile granulations , indicating a previous infection with bigeminum .
The rSle which the Spirillum itself plays as a cause of disease has not as yet been ascertained , but the following notes will help to throw some light on its pathogenic action .
In the communication alluded to above , I described experiments on the inoculation of defibrinated and non-defibrinated blood containing Spirilla from sick into healthy oxen .
This experiment failed in eleven animals , although the precaution was taken to utilise , for the most part , imported stock , and the inoculations were made with quantities ranging from five to one hundred cubic centimetres , which were injected subcutaneously , intravenously , and intra-peritoneally .
The injection of blood containing Spirilla into three sheep , two goats , two horses , six rabbits , one guinea-pig , and one rat , also gave negative results .
It was then concluded that spirillosis is not inoculable , but this has proved to be a mistake , as further experiments have shown that the disease can be conveyed from sick to healthy animals by the injection of infective blood .
As it has been proved that the Brazilian fowl Spirillum is transmitted by a species of tick , an Argas , and since my Spirillum was also found in the blood , the opinion was then expressed , in view of the conclusive evidence ot past experiments in tropical piroplasmosis , that cattle spirillosis is also , probably , transmitted by ticks .
The Mode of Conveyanee of Spirillosis in Cattle from the Sick to Healthy Animals.\#151 ; Some observations on bulls on which various kinds of ticks had fed first suggested that this Spirillum might be transmitted by ticks , and , further , that the particular tick in the present case was Phipicephalus * Sir la Spirillose des Bovidus/ par A. Laveran .
t 'Comptes Rendus des Stances de l'Academie des Sciences , ' vol. 136 , p. 939 ( Seance du 20 Avril , 1903 ) .
Transmission and Inoculability of Spirillum Theileri .
505 decoloratus .
To prove this inference the following experiments were carried out:\#151 ; Six heifers , about the same age , which came from Aliwal North , were stabled on the premises of the laboratory , and successfully infected with Spirillum Theileri by a tick .
In these experiments the tick ( decoloratus ) was fed on the sick cattle during and shortly after the febrile reaction , when the Spirillum was noticed in the blood .
Spirilla were found to be present in the blood of the healthy animals in some experiments in 13 days , in others in 17 days , after the infected ticks had fed on them .
The above experiments thus prove that the Spirillum Theileri is conveyed from the sick to the healthy animals by this tick .
The Effect of Injection of Blood from Cattle Suffering from Spirillosis into Cattle , Sheep , Goats , and Horses.\#151 ; Oxen and sheep wTere inoculated with blood containing Spirilla from animals suffering from the disease .
Spirilla appeared in their blood after two or three days .
It is possible that goats can also be infected by the Spirillum , since a slight febrile reaction after inoculation was observed in two cases , but the Spirillum has not yet been demonstrated in the blood of goats .
One horse was injected , but proved refractory to spirillosis .
The incubation period of the disease , produced by inoculation of infected blood , is as short as two and three days , whilst after tick infection the duration is 13 to 17 days as above noted .
The development of the blue tick from the larva to the adult takes place on the same host .
It is necessary , therefore , that the infection of this spirillosis should pass through the egg stage of the tick .
When the egg hatches into a larva , the larva is capable of giving the disease to a healthy animal .
As the tick remains on the same host for two or three weeks , it is evident that as an adult it may reinfect itself with Spirillar blood , taken from the same animal it infected as a larva .
This is possible on account of the short incubation period of the disease .
None of the animals died from spirillosis .
Enumeration of the red blood corpuscles shows that the Spirillum produces slight anaemia , not sufficient , however , to cause death .
Some of the animals went off their feed , and a loss of condition was noticeable .
The Blood of an Ox which has Recovered from Spirillosis is Infective and Blue Ticks fed on such an Animal can acquire the Infection and Transmit it to Healthy Animals.\#151 ; Five sheep were injected intravenously with defibrinated blood of an immune ox and contracted spirillosis .
By an immune ox I mean an animal which has recovered from an attack of spirillosis and is no longer susceptible to the disease .
Thus the blood of the healthy immune ox is infective , although it is impossible to determine the presence of the parasite microscopically .
, \gt ; Mr. G. Dean .
On Nature of the [ July ^ Summary of Conclusions .
1 .
The Spirillum Theileri is naturally transmitted by the progeny 0f Rhipiceplialus decoloratus which have developed on cattle suffering from or recovered from Spirillum infection .
2 .
It is possible to produce spirillosis-susceptible cattle and sheep by the injection of blood from sick or immune animals .
The proof that the blood of immune sheep is infective is yet wanting .
3 .
The pathogenic effect of Spirillum is a slight anaemia accompanied by fever .
In none of my cases did a fatal result occur .
An Experimental Enquiry into the Nature of the Substance in Serum which influences Phagocytosis .
By Geokge Dean , M.A. , C.M. , M.B. , Bacteriologist-in-Charge of the Serum Department of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine , London .
( Communicated by Professor J. Rose Bradford , F.R.S. Received July 8 , 1905 .
) Metchnikoff , and his school , in the face of much opposition , lasting many years , have offered convincing proofs of the importance of phagocytosis in the protection of the animal body against bacterial invasion .
The main theses of the Metchnikovian theory are now almost universally accepted , but the exact mechanism of the processes involved is even now the subject of keen controversy .
If a highly virulent organism is injected into a susceptible animal , the leucocytes appear to be repelled , and to be unable to deal with the microbe , which multiplies and causes the death of the animal .
If , however , the suitable immune serum is injected into the animal before inoculation , the phagocytes attack and devour the invading micro-organisms .
Much discussion has centred round the interpretation of such experiments .
The early work of Nut tall and others on the bactericidal action of normal serum , and Pfeiffer 's demonstration of the bacteriolysis of cholera and typhoid bacilli by immune sera in the absence of cells , formed the chief basis on which rested the humoral theory , which attributed the protection in such cases to the destructive action of the serum on the microbes .
Fltigge graphically illustrated the view of the humoralists by likening the phagocytes to the trenches made ready behind the fighting line to receive the conquered dead .

