326 Dr. A. E. Everest .
3 .
Fixation of arsenic by the brain occurs as readily as by the liver , as-shown by experiments in vitro and the toxic effects of intrathecal injections. .
4 .
Penetration of neosalvarsan into the brain cannot be obtained even by frequently repeated intravenous injections .
REFERENCES .
1 .
J. McIntosh and P. Fildes , 'Syphilis from the Modern Standpoint , ' p. 220 , London , 1911 .
2 .
K. Ullmann , 'Archiv f. Dermatol , u. Syph .
, ' vol. 114 , p. 511 ( 1913 ) .
3 .
A. Morel and G. Mouriquand , 'Lyon M6d .
, ' vol. 120 , p. 315 ( 1913 ) .
4 .
A. Mouneyrat , ' Count .
Rend , de l'Academie des Sciences , ' vol. 154 , p. 284 ( 1914 ) .
5 .
P. Ehrlich , ' Abhandl .
iiber Salvarsan , ' vol. 3 , p. 546 ( 1913 ) .
6 .
R. H. Chittenden and H. H. Donaldson , quoted by A. W. Blithe in ' Poisons , ' p. 568 , London , 1895 .
The Production of Anthocyaninsand Anthocyanidins.\#151 ; Part II .
By Arthur Ernest Everest , M.Sc .
, Ph. D. ( Lecturer in Chemistry , University College , Reading ) .
( Communicated by Prof. Frederick K-eeble , F.R.S. Received July 15 , 1914 .
) The author of the present paper* and other investigatorsf have concluded as the result of their investigations that the red pigments obtained as the result of careful reduction of the yellow flavonol derivatives are identical with the natural anthocyans of plants .
Prof. Willstatter , on the other hand , holds* that these artifically produced red pigments are different from the natural anthocyans .
S That the point at issue is important may be judged from the facts that , the complete synthesis of flavonol derivatives having been realised by Kostanecki , the production of anthocyans from them as described by the author ( Watson and Sen , || and Combs ,1T completes the synthetic production of these compounds .
Moreover , the production of anthocyan glucosides\#151 ; anthocyanins * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , p. 444 ( 1914 ) .
t Cf .
ibid. , p. 446 .
J ' Sitzungsber .
K. Akad .
Wiss .
Berlin , ' vol. 12 , p. 402 ( 1914 ) .
S Since the present paper was forwarded for publication , Wheldale and Bassett , ' J. Genetics , ' vol. 4 , p. 103 ( 1914 ) , have published a criticism of the author 's views , in which they also take up a similar attitude .
|| 'Chem .
Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 105 , p. 389 ( 1914 ) .
IT 'Compt .
Rend .
, ' vol. 157 , pp. 1002 and 1454 .
The Production of Anthocyaninsand 327 __from yellow glucosides of the flavonol series by reduction in acid solution as described by the author ( loc. cit. ) , is of vital interest to those studying the production of these pigments in plants .
Willstiitter bases his criticism of the author 's conclusions upon the following observations:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The red pigments obtained by reduction are unstable , becoming decolorised even in acid solution .
( 2 ) The decolorised solutions of these pigments do not recover their colour on acidification , even with considerable excess of acid .
The anthocyans do not behave in this manner , they are stable in acid solution , and , in neutral solution\#151 ; with a few exceptions\#151 ; become decolorised by isomerisation , but the decolorised solution on acidification regains its colour .
The author has carefully examined the red pigments obtained by him , and compared them with cyanin .
The glucosides and the one non-glucoside examined gave results in every way similar to those given by cyanin and cyanidin respectively , and support the conclusions reached in the author 's previous paper ( loc. cit. ) , viz. : that these pigments are true anthocyanins and anthocyanidins .
It is perhaps necessary to point out at this stage that , for the comparisons made by Wills tatter and now to be discussed , the anthocyanins\#151 ; glucosides\#151 ; give far more reliable results than the anthocyanidins\#151 ; non-glucosides\#151 ; which latter compounds are more unstable in solution , even when faintly acid , than the corresponding anthocyanins .
This fact was first observed when working with cyanin ; moreover , the decolorisation by isomerisation and return of colour by the action of acids is far more difficult to carry out satisfactorily with the anthocyanidins , particularly if they are somewhat impure , than with the anthocyanins .
With the anthocyanins this series of changes is most characteristic and very easily carried out , even when the pigment is in quite a crude and impure condition .
As Willstatter appears to have used the non-glucosides only in making his comparisons , the foregoing considerations may perhaps explain the discrepancy between his results and those obtained by the present writer .
In every case the red pigments\#151 ; glucosides\#151 ; obtained by the author are stable in aqueous or alcoholic acid solution ; indeed many of them have remained in open test-tubes for many days without losing their colour .
In no case has decolorisation under such conditions been observed .
These pigments become decolorised , it is true , even in acid solution , if reducing or oxidising agents are present , but this is equally true of anthocyanins .
The non-glucosides when in neutral , or very faintly acid , solution are somewhat less stable than the glucosides , but in this they resemble the Anthocyanidins .
Dr. A. E. Everest .
The red acid solutions of the glucosides obtained by the author , when made neutral by shaking with excess of calcium carbonate , pass to violet or red-violet , and rapidly become decolorised .
On filtration , and addition of a few drops of acid ( HC1 used ) to the decolorised solution\#151 ; either soon after decolorisation , or even after standing over night in that condition\#151 ; they quantitatively regain their red colour , thus behaving as true anthocyanins .
The acid solution of the non-glucoside examined , on shaking with excess of calcium carbonate became violet .
After filtration , the solution on warming , , loses the violet colour , but on addition of a few drops of acid and warming the red colour reappears , but not quantitatively .
A solution of cyanidin yielded exactly parallel results .
As already mentioned , unless the pigment be pure , or nearly so , the complete recovery of colour is difficult to obtain in the case of the non-glucosides .
Besides the examination of the observations of Willstatter , the comparison of the absorption spectra of the pigments obtained by the author with those of cyanin and cyanidin\#151 ; in acid solution\#151 ; has been carried out .
The pigments all show one characteristic band , resembling in every respect that shown by cyanin and cyanidin chlorides , and agreeing with that described by Willstatter for the characteristic band of the anthoeyans in acid solution , as a broad band which becomes flatter towards the violet , and extends over a great portion of the green and blue regions .
The author has therefore been able to show that by reduction of flavonol glucosides\#151 ; the yellow pigments present in many flowers\#151 ; a series of red pigments may be obtained whose properties agree with those of the anthocyanins .
A brief summary of the points of agreement may be given .
( 1 ) The glucosides remain quantitatively\#151 ; the monoglucoside from quercitrin is apparently an exception\#151 ; in dilute ( about 2N ) sulphuric acid solution when shaken with amyl alcohol , whereas the hydrolysed products pass quantitatively into the alcoholic layer , yielding a red solution which shaken with sodium acetate solution becomes violet or red-violet , the pigment remaining in the alcohol , and their solution on shaking with sodium carbonate solution turns blue or blue-green and at the same time the pigment descends quantitatively to the aqueous layer .
All these changes are exactly similar to those observed with anthocyanins .
( 2 ) In acid solution\#151 ; aqueous or alcoholic\#151 ; they are stable , and their absorption spectra are similar to those of the anthocyanins .
( 3 ) By oxidation\#151 ; e.g. hydrogen peroxide\#151 ; their acid solutions may be decolorised .
By reduction\#151 ; e.g. Zn and HC1\#151 ; the red colour of their acid solutions is discharged , but reappears on careful addition of hydrogen peroxide .
Anthocyanins react in an exactly similar manner .
The Production of A nthocyanins and Anthocyanidins .
329 ( 4 ) These pigments show the same decolonisation in neutral solution , due to isomerisation , and return of colour by the action of acids as do the anthocyanins .
( 5 ) They form red compounds with acids ( everything points to these compounds being oxonium salts ) , are violet or red-violet in neutral solution , and most of them yield blue or blue-green compounds with alkalis , completely resembling in this respect the anthocyanins .
( 6 ) They are very unstable towards alkalis , as are the anthocyanins .
With this evidence may be coupled that of Combs ( cit. ) , who , working with Ampelopsis liedcracea , obtained a yellow and a red pigment ( anthocyan ) , and by reduction of the yellow obtained the red , and conversely by oxidation the red passed back to the yellow .
He prepared both of these compounds in crystalline condition and compared their melting points .
He did not state whether they were glucosides or no. It seems , therefore , that all available evidence favours the author 's conclusions that the red pigments obtained by the reduction of the flavonol derivatives and their glucosides are true anthocyanidins and anthocyanins respectively .
Prof. Willstatter , when lecturing on this subject at University College , London , in May last , expressed the opinion that they are compounds in which the pyrone ring has been opened up at the oxygen linkage .
Comparison of their properties with those of known compounds of the structure suggested does not lend support to this conjecture ; moreover , it would be very difficult to account for their being strong oxonium bases\#151 ; as they appear to be\#151 ; if they were of this type , nor could this interpretation supply satisfactory explanations of the change from violet to red on treatment with acids , nor of the fact that the red are more stable than the violet compounds .
It is of interest to note that Willstatter 's work supplies important experimental evidence in favour of the scheme ho y n \ \/ \ o OH V / V\gt ; H OH OH OH HO Acid reduction .
H Cl \/ / \/ '\ / \#151 ; \H C\lt ; \gt ; OH H OH \/ \c/ Xo " 'H/ \ OH H x^Ov ____oh HO ^ V \oH \#151 ; HoO jj\_ +"hJo %/ \c/ XOH OH | H OH ( Myriectin .
) Flavonol derivative .
Colourless or faintly coloured intermediate product .
Anthocyan pigment .
already put forward by the author* to explain the formation of the * Loc .
cit. , p. 449 .
Dr. A. E. Everest .
anthocyans from flavonol derivatives .
Willstatter agrees with the author with regard to the structure of the anthocyan molecule , and further , his analytical results ( loc.cit .
) have shown that the colourless iso-forms are produced by the addition of one molecule of water to the anthocyan molecule ; this is in agreement with the above scheme .
As flavone derivatives , which also occur in plants , yield somewhat similar-red pigments , it seems probable that further examination of the natural anthocyans may yield compounds related to this class of pigment .
Again , no natural anthocyan pigment has as yet been examined in which the hydroxy-groups in the phenyl group attached to the benzo-pyran residue are in the meta-position to one another .
As morin , a flavonol of this type , occurs naturally , and on reduction yields a red pigment , it is possible that natural anthocyans of this type may be among the fruits of further research on these pigments .
It is quite likely that such compounds would differ slightly from those at present investigated .
Apart from the anthocyan question , the observations recorded appear to be of interest , in that , as in every case where the author obtained an anthocyan by reduction of the flavone or flavonol present in flower extracts , he was able to show that the pigment was an anthocyanin\#151 ; glucoside\#151 ; it would follow that in each case the flavone or flavonol derivative in the plant must have been present in the form of a glucoside .
Experimental .
The methods of obtaining anthocyanins and anthocyanidins from flavonol derivatives by reduction have already been described by the author { loc. cit. ) .
The method which gave most satisfactory results , viz. : reducing the compound dissolved in a mixture of 5 vols .
absolute alcohol and 1 vol. concentrated HC1 by means of magnesium ( ribbon or turnings ) , was then used only when pure or nearly pure yellow compounds were obtainable .
By slight adaptation , however , it has been found possible to use it with advantage in many cases when dealing with plant extracts .
It is only necessary to add to the extract of the yellow pigment in 2N HC1 its own volume of concentrated HC1 and then to the whole 4-5 times its volume of absolute alcohol , for the reduction with magnesium to proceed readily .
In some cases it has been found advantageous to add a drop or two of concentrated HC1 from time to time .
A disadvantage of this method is the somewhat considerable dilution which results .
$ Aqueous solutions of the red pigments produced may be obtained from the aqueous alcoholic solutions above mentioned , by the addition of much ether , and if necessary , a small quantity of dilute acid .
The red pigments are left The Production of Anthocyanins and 331 in the aqueous acid layer , provided that sufficient ether is added .
The ethereal layer contains much of the unchanged tlavonol derivatives and these may be more completely removed from the aqueous acid solution by repeated extraction with ether .
In the preparation of extracts from flowers , dried and powdered petals are more convenient to use than fresh flowers .
With the red pigments\#151 ; all of which were shown by the amyl-alcohol reaction to be glucosides\#151 ; obtained by reduction from extracts of the following flowers , viz. : daffodil , primrose , viola ( yellow ) and wallflower ( lemon-yellow ) , the following experiments were carried out , viz. :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The stability of the pigments in aqueous or alcoholic acid solutions was examined .
In every case they were stable , no decolorisation was observed , even after standing for many days .
( 2 ) An acid ( HCl ) solution ( aqueous or alcoholic ) of the pigment was separated into two portions : ( a ) kept for comparison ; ( ) shaken with excess of powdered calcium carbonate , whereby all excess of acid was removed , colour passed from red to violet , solution then became decolorised\#151 ; all traces of red or violet disappeared , solution being a faint brownish yellow .
The red colour was restored quantitatively on acidification by 2-3 drops of concentrated HCl ( concentrated used to prevent unnecessary dilution ) whether the acidification took place immediately after decolorisation or after allowing the decolorised solution to stand over night .
( 3 ) The absorption spectra were examined , with results already mentioned .
Thanks to the generosity of Prof. A. G. Perkin , F.R.S. , in placing at his disposal a quantity of crude rutin\#151 ; a pigment consisting of quercetin combined with a disaccharose residue , and identical with viola-quereitrin*\#151 ; the author was enabled to carry out similar experiments using the pigment derived by reduction from this flavonol disaccharide of known constitution .
The red pigment remained almost quantitatively in aqueous sulphuric acid ( about 2N ) when shaken with amyl alcohol , only traces passing into the alcohol .
When hydrolysed by boiling with hydrochloric acid ( about 20 per cent. ) it yielded a sparingly soluble non-glucoside , which , when shaken in dilute sulphuric acid solution with amyl alcohol , passed quantitatively into the alcoholic layer , yielding a fine red solution .
On shaking the solution with sodium acetate , the colour changed to violet , remaining , however , in the alcoholic layer .
On shaking with sodium carbonate solution it became blue ' green and passed quantitatively to the aqueous layer .
The series of observations ( 1 , 2 , and 3 ) as above was repeated with the pigment obtained from rutin , and in every way similar results obtained .
* Cf .
A. G. Perkin , 'Chem .
Soc. Journ. , ' 1910 , p. 1776 .
VOL. LXXXV1II.\#151 ; B. 2 B 332 The Production of Antliocyanins and Anthocyanidins .
From the specimen of rutin supplied by Prof. Perkin , a sample of the crystalline pigment was prepared according to his instructions , and from this also the red pigment obtained and subjected to similar treatment .
It yielded exactly similar results .
This case is of particular interest , for , if the disaccharose is attached to the flavonol molecule in the correct position , the pigment produced should be identical with cyanin .
For comparison with the above glucoside pigments , the same series of experiments was carried out with cyanin chloride , and gave exactly similar results .
From the red pigment obtained by reduction of quercitrin ( Kahlbaum ) or from rutin , the non-glucoside pigment was obtained by hydrolysis , collected , dissolved in a mixture of equal parts by volume of ethyl alcohol ( absolute ) and 2N hydrochloric acid ( aqueous ) , and of the solution obtained one part was retained for comparison , the other shaken with excess of finely powdered calcium carbonate to remove acid .
The colour changed to violet , and after filtration and warming became decolorised\#151 ; lost all violet colour , only faint brownish-yellow colour remaining .
On acidification with 2-3 drops of concentrated hydrochloric acid and warming , the red colour returned , but not quantitatively .
A comparative experiment using cyanidin chloride gave exactly similar results .
In solution\#151 ; even faintly acid\#151 ; this non-glucoside pigment is not so stable as are the glucosides above mentioned ; thus , after standing for a week the colour is considerably diminished , and this diminution is due to destruction .
Cyanidin , however , behaves similarly , if somewhat impure .
The cyanin and cyanidin chlorides used were obtained from a specimen of cornflower pigment containing about 10 per cent , of pure pigment .
The author desires to express his thanks to Prof. A. Gr .
Perkin , F.R.S. , for supplying him with the sample of rutin used in some of the above experiments .

