On the Mechanical Relations of the Energy of Magnetisation .
27 general dynamics it is the Lagrangian function L = T\#151 ; W that determines everything , so that , if a part of the energy is reckoned as kinetic energy , it has the opposite sign to what it would have if reckoned as potential energy .
The failure to recognise this difference in the two types of energy in the present instance appears to be the cause of much of the confusion in the subject .
The usual treatment of the energy relations of the magnetic field gives the same sign to a quantity which in the statical case is treated as potential energy and in the dynamical case as kinetic energy , and this apparent agreement of sign appears to satisfy most authors , so that the real discrepancy has rarely been noticed .
The present mode of treatment has actually been suggested by Cohn* but he rejects it as unsatisfactory , because it leads to opposite signs for kinetic and potential energies .
In another place Jeansj* comes up against the opposite signs , but reconciles them by finding that one of the expressions compared is incomplete by an amount which makes the signs the same .
On Phenomena relating to the Spectra of Hydrogen and Helium .
By T. R. Merton , D.Sc .
, and Prof. J. W. Nicholson , M.A. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by A. Fowler , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1916 .
) ( Abstract .
) In a previous paper the structure of broadened spectrum lines was investigated by a method involving the use of a neutral-tinted wedge as an accessory to the spectroscope .
The present communication deals with a method for the accurate determination of the photographic intensities of spectrum lines and the reduction of such intensities to absolute values by comparison with the continuous black-body radiation of the carbon arc .
These methods have been applied to a study of the relative intensity distribution in the spectra of helium and hydrogen under different conditions of excitation .
It has been found that under certain specified conditions there is a transfer of energy from the longer to the shorter wave-lengths in any given series , and that , under such conditions , the associated series , and in particular the Diffuse series , are relatively enhanced at the expense of the Principal series .
* ' Das Electromagnetische , ' p. 300 .
+ ' Electricity and Magnetism , ' p. 432 .
VOL. XCIII.\#151 ; A. E Prof. W. H. Young .
It has also been found that the distribution of intensity found in certain celestial spectra can be approximately reproduced in the laboratory .
In any attempt to interpret the phenomena observed in connection with the Balmer series of hydrogen , it is necessary to know the particular type to which this series belongs .
In order to decide this point a study has been made of the separations of the components of lines of the Balmer series of hydrogen , and the mean values of the separations of the doublets constituting the lines Ha and Hp have been found to be respectively 0*132 A.U. and 0*033 A.U. These values are consistent with the separations appropriate to a Principal series , and the first is in precise agreement with the value deduced by Buisson and Fabry .
These results have been obtained by crossing a Lummer Gehrcke plate with the neutral wedge , and submitting the contours obtained to mathematical analysis , by means of which the distribution of intensity in the individual components , and the separation of the components , can be determined .
On Multiple Integrals .
By Prof. W. H. Young , Sc. D. , F.R.S. ( Received July 16 , 1916 .
) S 1 .
In the modern theory of absolutely convergent integrals , as distinct from the older Riemann theory , the difference between multiple and repeated integration falls to the ground .
Every multiple integral is equal to the corresponding repeated integrals , and the formulae involving such multiple integrals , even when expressed without the repeated integral notation , can be obtained by means of the repeated integration process .
To really grasp the distinction* between multiple and repeated integrals we have to take as independent variables functions of bounded variation ; more precisely , we have to replace the ensemble of variables { x , , ... ) by a single function of bounded variation , which , indeed , takes the place of the product of the variables xyz ... , the more general integration reducing to the ordinary when this product replaces the function in question .
I have already had occasion elsewhere to explain what is meant by a function of bounded variation of any number of variables , and to define * In the French language there is said to be , as yet , no word expressing this distinction .

