III .
" Contributions towards the History of the Monamines .
No. VII .
Transformation of Aniline into Benzoic Acid .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 3 , 1862 .
In a Note recently addressed to the Royal Society , I have described a new organic base which is formed of a secondary product in the manufacture of aniline upon a large scale .
This substance , paraniline , C,1 H14 N , , is isomeric with aniline , and owes its origin evidently to the action of heat , under circumstances not yet precisely determined , upon that body .
I have not yet succeeded in producing this compound from aniline , but the experiments made with the view of accomplishing this transformation have led me to an observation which I beg leave to mention briefly to the Royal Society .
The vapour of aniline , when passed through a red-hot glass tube , undergoes decomposition ; the tube becomes coated with a film of carbon , a brown liquid collects in the receiver , and a colourless gas burning with a luminous flame is evolved ; if this be allowed to pass through water , the latter becomes charged with a considerable amount of cyanide of ammonium .
The brown distillate contains a large proportion of aniline which has escaped decomposition , and which may be readily separated by treatment of the distillate with an acid .
On rectifying the portion of the oil which is insoluble in acid , the thermometer becomes stationary at 80 ?
, when a colourless transparent liquid distils , possessing all the properties of benzol ; it was identified , moreover , by transformation into nitrobenzol and aniline .
The thermometer then rapidly rises , becoming stationary again at between 190 ?
and 1950 ; a limpid oil lighter than water passes over , which by its odour is at once recognized as benzonitrile* .
To remove every doubt , this oil was boiled with an alcoholic solution of potash , when torrents of ammonia were evolved , benzoate of potassium remaining as a residue .
The benzoic acid was separated from the salt by addition of hydrochloric acid , and converted into the silver-salt , which was identified by analysis .
The formation , under these circumstances , of benzonitrile is probably due to a reaction at a higher temperature between aniline and the hydrocyanic acid generated during the destruction of another portion of this substance , C6 H7N+C N=C7 H5N+H3 N. The action of heat upon aniline gives rise , in addition , to the formation of small quantities of a crystalline indifferent substance , and an oily base boiling at a very high temperature ; the nature of both these substances I have not yet determined .
The transformation of aniline into benzonitrile is thus seen to be far from elegant ; and if it have any claims to notice , it is merely because there are at present comparatively few reactions known which permit a passage from a hydrocarbon , Cn Hn--6 , to an acid , Cn+ 1 H2n-6 0 , .
This transformation may possibly be used for the production of several of the higher terms of the series of aromatic acids which have not yet been obtained .

