iggO .
] On the Structure of the Immature Ovarian , fyc .
237 March 18 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
iphe Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for hem .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; \#171 ; On the Structure of the Immature Ovarian Ovum in the common Fowl and in the Rabbit .
To which is appended some Observations upon the Mode of Formation of the Discus Proligerus in the Rabbit , and of the Ovarial Glands or 'Egg-tubes ' in the Dog .
" By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received March 3 , 1880 .
[ [ Plates 2 , 3 , 4 .
] The Ovarian Ovum of the Bird .
In the ovary of a laying hen , Graafian follicles are to be found in almost every stage of growth , and the fundamental parts germinal spot , germinal vesiole , yolk , and follicular epithelium exhibit differences both in relative size and in structure at various stages of growth .
I will proceed to consider the structure of each fundamental part in detail , as it is presented in sections of the ovary prepared after hardening in picric acid and alcohol , and stained with logwood or with magenta .
Germinal Spot.\#151 ; In larger ovarian ova , those which are already ; 5 minim , and upwards in diameter , the germinal spot appears homogeneous and stains of a uniform dark colour with logwood ( fig. 1 ) .
It is either completely spherical in shape , or somewhat ovoid .
In the latter case it is very commonly eccentric and placed close to the wall of the germinal vesicle , with which it may appear to be blended .
When spherical it is often situated near the centre of the vesicle ; and from its periphery , in what may be considered a typical condition , filaments of great tenuity radiate outwards to the wall of the vesicle , to the inner surface of which they are again attached , and that so closely that it frequently happens that when shrunken from the action of reagents , the filaments may break in the middle rather than suffer themselves to be dragged away from the wall ( fig. 1 , \lt ; ?
) .
These radiating filaments ramify and intercommunicate in such a way as to form 1 a delicate network ( intra-nuclear network ) which as we have seen 238 Mr. E. A. Schafer .
On Immature Ovarian Ovum [ Mar. 18 serves to connect the germinal spot with the inner wall of the germinal vesicle .
The network is hardly at all stained by logwood thus presenting a marked contrast to the substance of the germinal spot ; moreover the nodal points are not marked and the whole structure is comparatively indistinct .
It is just such an appearance as can be produced in an albuminous fluid by coagulating reagents , and I am at present unable to decide clearly in my own mind , whether it is natural or has thus been formed artificially .
In other ova , chiefly those of smaller size ( figs. 2 , 3 , 4 , and 8 ) , the germinal spot is composed of two distinct substances , a homogeneous matrix j staining but slightly , and a number of coarse granules which are darkly stained by the logwood .
The granules may be scattered equally thickly over the whole matrix , or they may leave a peripheral layer of the spot , clear , or again there may be a. clear part in the centre ( fig. 3 , .
c ) as well as at the periphery of the spot(1).* This last condition I have especially noticed in some of the smallest ova .
As a rule the intra-nuclear network above described iir the larger ova is not to be seen in the smallest ones .
This may be accounted for by the assumption that the network is .
formed subsequently by a protrusion of the homogeneous substance of the spot ; if we regard the network as a natural formation .
On the other hypothesis , namely , that it is an artificial production , we must assume that there is less albuminous matter in the fluid which fills the germinal ' vesicle of the smaller ovum , to what there is precipitated around the spot , and does not adhere together in the form of reticulating filaments , In almost all these smaller ova the germinal spot lies near the wall of the vesicle .
Germinal Vesicle.\#151 ; In all the ova the wall of the germinal vesicle is a very distinct membrane which becomes , stained ; by logwood , but not very darkly .
When a portion of the membrane of the - germinal vesicle of one of the larger ova is separated and examined on the flat , it has a finely punctated appearance , , and in profile it* can be seen that this is due to minute pits with intervening thickenings upon the inner surface of the membrane ( fig. 7 , a and b ) .
( 2 ) The action of the reagents employed generally produced a shrinking of the vesicle , so that its outline in many oases beeame irregular ( fig. 3),. .
but where this shrinking has* not taken place , it is .
almost perfectly spherical except in the largest ova .
With the exception of the germinal spot the contents of the germinal vesicle in the younger-ova remain absolutely clear and unstained , -so that we* must either assume that there is very little albuminous matter naturally present , or , as above suggested , that this has been precipitated around the germinal spot during the process of hardening the tissue .
In one small ovum two * The small numbers above the line indicate references to the hterature of the subject .
These will he found at the end of the paper .
880 .
] in the common Fowl and the Rabbit .
239 \#166 ; erminal vesicles were observed in close contiguity .
They were of fnequal size , and each had a relatively large macula .
In another , f we of which is given ( fig. 8 ) , there are also two vesicles , but L of these is evidently in process of disappearance , for the mem-irane has become absorbed and the contents of the vesicle , including ihe macula , are becoming assimilated in appearance to the vitellus .
j Yolk.__In all the ova the yolk seems composed of a network of ilosely interlacing filaments ( 3 ) .
The network may be coarser or finer ; t is very fine indeed in the peripheral layers of the largest ova ( those ibove a millimetre in diameter ) which generally have a finely granular Eroect ( fig. 10 , I , II ) ; coarser in the smaller ova and in the central Iparts of the larger , but in the latter the coarse appearance of the net-work seems chiefly due to the accumulation here of the large spherical lyolk globules , which being left clear in the sections , give a reticulated appearance to the substance in which they are imbedded .
In the smallest ova there is nothing but clear fluid in the meshes of the network , which is comparatively open .
But in almost all there are com idensations of the network ( fig.6 , c , ) to be seen , in which the filaments are ' far more closely interlaced , the appearance presented being very like that which might be produced by gathering up a net made of string into a bunch at one part .
The filaments of the vitelline substance are but slightly stained with logwood , but since they are more closely placed in the condensations here spoken of , these are more stained than the i rest of the yolk .
Eventually as the ova increase in size the condensations seem to become more numerous ( fig ; 5 ) , and to spread , and the vitelline network to become eventually closer and finer everywhere , but especially at the periphery of the ovum and around the germinal vesicle , the deposit of the yolk globules producing , as .
we have seen , a coarser appearance in the more central parts .
Other condensations ( fig. 9 ) of vitelline substance occur in some ova which are more circumscribed and definite than those- just mentioned .
They are nucleus-like , spheroidal patches , which stain deeply with magenta , less deeply with logwood , are homogeneous in appearance , and i are usually encircled with a corona of short , straight , radiating filaments , which do not interlace with one another like those of the vitelline substance around , but may however ( I am not sure of this ) be j continued into the vitelline network of these pseudo-nuclei , as I will f term the structures in question .
There may be one , two , or even a greater number in the vitellus of the same ovum , with the germinal vesicle erf which they have no. apparent connexion .
I am unable to conjecture the meaning of these pseudo-nuclei , or to decide whether they are of the same nature as the " yolk-nuclei " which have been- mentioned by several observers as occurring in the ova of fish and Amphibia ( 4 ) .
\ In the largest ova the yolk exhibits several distinct layers which 240 Mr. E. A. Schafer .
On Immature Ovarian Ovum [ Mar. Jj| If shade off the one into the other .
Close to the surface is a thin layei ( fig. 10 , I ) very clear and almost free from granules , or these are of extreme minuteness ; next there is a finely granular looking layer ( II ) , considerably thicker than the last , in the deeper part of which are imbedded the elements of the white yolk ( III ) , which thus forms the third layer , and which passes gradually into the main central substance , or yellow yolk ( IV ) .
It is difficult to observe the interlacing filaments of which the vitelline substance is in all probability composed : even with the highest powers the superficial layers of the yolk of these larger ova show little more than an appearance of fine punctation .
Peculiar striated systems of fibres ( figs. 12 and 13 ) are to be * seen !
occasionally in the vitelbis of some of the larger ova .
They are generally situated near the end or ends ( for there may be two such systems I in one ovum ) of the ovum , and call to mind some of the amphiastral appearances of dividing nuclei .
The fibres composing them do not become more darkly stained with magenta than the rest of the vitellus , but they are very obvious both on account of their peculiar arrangement ( each system consisting of two triangular halves diverging from a common centre ) and on account of the fact that they lie in a substance which is clearer and stains less than the rest of the vitellus .
In the ovum figured ( fig. 12 ) one of these striated systems is situated in a projection of the vitellus .
I draw attention to this because it may mean that the vitellus just at the neck of the projection where the system is situated is in a condition of contraction , and that the appearance described is characteristic of that condition .
On the other hand , it is just possible that the figures in question are actually karyo-litic , and derived from some extruded portion of the contents of the germinal vesicle .
In this case the phenomenon is probably connected with the precocious formation of polar globules .
I say " precocious , " because the ovum in question was far from maturity ( 6 ) .
Membranes of the Ovum.\#151 ; I have only one remark to make about the external coverings of the bird 's ovarian ovum , and it concerns the zona radiata , Waldeyer states that this membrane or layer is derived from cells of the follicular epithelium , and is continuous with their substance ( \#174 ; ) .
I find on the contrary that in good sections the zona is completely distinct from the follicular epithelium , and its outline is more sharply defined externally than internally ( fig. 11 , z. r. ) .
Moreover , where the epithelium has accidentally been broken away , portions of its cells do not adhere to the zona , as they would tend to do if their substance were continuous with it .
I am inclined with Balfour ( 7 ) to regard the zona radiata therefore as a product of the protoplasm of the ovum .
I have not been able to gain any information with regard to the origin of the vitelline membrane which might enable me to decide whether it is a product of the yolk or of the follicular epithelium .
1880 .
] in the common Fowl and the .
tfor can I say whether the clear interval between the follicular epithelium and the zona radiata in fig. 11 , and which seems to be bridged across here and there by processes of the follicular epithelium cells , is the section of a homogeneous " chorion , " or merely a layer of clear coagulated fluid ( 8 ) .
Epithelium of the Graafian Follicle.\#151 ; The follicular epithelium of the smallest follicles is a single layer of oblong or cubical cells ( figs. 5 , 6 , 8 9 , / .
e ) .
As the follicle grows the cells become more columnar .
In larger follicles ( figs. 10 and 11 ) the epithelium is two or more cells deep ( 9 ) .
The cells are not arranged in layers , but irregularly disposed .
They are for the most part rounded or angular in form , but between these smaller cells other longer ones are met with , which extend through the thickness of the epithelium , and are pyriform in shape , generally with the stalk of the pear directed outwards ( fig. 10 , These seem to be the cells which Waldeyer figures as being continuous with the zona radiata , but , as will be seen from what has been stated above , I have not been able to confirm their continuity ; indeed , the larger end of the cell does not always reach the inner border of the follicular epithelium .
On the other hand , the stalk of the pear always extends at least to the outer border of the epithelium , and may even in some cases be traced into the connective tissue coat of the follicle .
These cells call to mind the pyriform cells which cover the surface of the developing Elasmobranch ovary , and which also are traceable at their attached smaller ends into the stroma of the organ ( '11 ) .
Ovarian Ovum of the Rabbit .
The following description is derived from the study of sections of the ovaries of rabbits , which were either full grown or nearly so .
The ovaries wTere removed while still warm and placed in a concentrated solution of picric acid .
After hardening in this , they were transferred to alcohol , which was frequently changed .
Sections were then prepared and stained either with magenta dissolved in oil of cloves , and subsequently mounted in Canada balsam , or they were stained with Beale 's carmine and mounted in glycerine , or sometimes in balsam .
In sections of such ovaries , as is well known , permanent ova and Graafian follicles are to be found in every stage of growth .
Germinal Spot.\#151 ; In small ova the germinal spot , as in the bird , is generally represented by a collection of darkly staining granules , imbedded in a homogeneous , or very finely granular matrix ( figs. 14\#151 ; 20 ) .
The outline of the macula is generally less well defined than in corresponding ova of the bird , and the shape is more irregular .
This granular condition of the macula is not confined to the small ova , for it occurs also in those which are surrounded by a double layer of follicular epithelium ( fig. 20 ) , and even in some which are contained in large Graafian follicles in which there is already a considerable 242 Mi .
E. A. Schafer .
On Iim Ovum ^Mar ig accumulation of liquor folliculi .
In the latter case the matrix above mentioned is absent , and the macula is represented by a number dozen or so ) of globules of varying size which appear to lie loos\lt ; within the germinal vesicle ( fig. 23 , 6 ) .
An intra-vesicular network sometimes present , and serves to unite the granules of the macula which are then few in number and individually larger ( figs. 21 and 22 ) .
It is possible that the homogeneous matrix above described may represent the remains of such a network , the filaments of which have shrunk up into a mass on contact with the hardening reagent ; but if we are to assume this for some cases , it is difficult to understand why it should not take place in every case .
Germinal Vesicle.\#151 ; With the exception of the germinal spot or spots , and the intra-vesicular network when present , the contents of the germinal vesicle are perfectly clear and do not become stained to any appreciable extent .
The vesicle is either completely spherical in shape or it may present one or more bulgings ( fig. 18 ) , and these bulgings are frequently turned towards the nuclei presently to be described as making their appearance in the peripheral layer of the vitellus .
In some of the sections the wall of the germinal vesicle seems to be deficient for a small extent ( fig. 14 , v. g. ) , as if to permit of an admixture of its contents with the yolk ; but this appearance may be due to the wall having become so thinned as to be imperceptible .
In some of the smallest Graafian follicles two germinal vesicles are seen within one ovum ( fig. 26 ) .
It is possible that one of these may afterwards disappear , i.e. , that the follicle is really a nest , containing two fused primitive ova ; or , on the other hand , that the follicle and ovum are about to divide .
Vitellus .
In small ovarian ova the vitellus , as in the corresponding ova of the bird , is in the form of a comparatively open network of anastomosing filaments ( figs. 21 , 22 ) .
These tend to become collected more thickly together immediately around the germinal vesicle , and also at the periphery of the vitellus .
In larger ova a network is no longer recognisable , but the vitellus acquires a uniformly granular aspect , with generally a number of larger and more distinct granules imbedded in it .
In maturing ova the vitelline granules are chiefly collected immediately in contact with the inner surface of the zona pellucida , but are also distributed throughout the whole vitellus , disposed , it has sometimes appeared to me , in closely anastomosing tracts , leaving clear intervals between .
The zona pellucida of the rabbit 's ovum is late in becoming formed .
Even when the epithelium in the Graafian follicle is composed of two layers of well-marked columnar cells , it is still thin and the radiating pores cannot be detected in it .
In later stages of growth the pores arc distinct enough , and they often appear to be occupied by minute granules which are like the vitelline granules on the one hand , and , on 880 .
] tn ^ie common Fowl and the Rabbit .
248 he other hand , are indistinguishable from those in the layer of granular t rial which lies between the outer surface of the zona d the innermost layer of cells of the discus proligerus ( fig. 23 , a ) .
'here can be little doubt that this granular matter is produced by the ells of the discus , and I cannot but conjecture with Waldeyer ( ) hat the granules in question pass bodily through the pores of the zona o add themselves to the food material of the vitellus .
I have seen no ppearances such as those represented by Pfliiger ( 12 ) and Lmdgren 13 ) of the passage of entire cells of the discus through the zona ( u ) .
Follicular Epitheluim.\#151 ; In the smallest Graafian follicles which are net with in the ovary of the grown rabbit , the epithelium of the ollicle consists of a single layer of flattened cells , which tend , however , o be thicker and more cubical on one side of the follicle , that , namely , which is further from the surface of the .
ovary ( fig. 25 ) As the imm and follicle grow , the epithelium cells multiply and become uniformly columnar , but long remain in a single layer ( figs. 14 , 15 , 16 , 18 21 ) .
Presently another layer is formed within this first one { fig. 17 ) .
This inner layer of the follicular epithelium gerus ) in the rabbit appears to be formed at the expense of the ovum .
At least , this is the only interpretation which I can adopt of the remarkable appearances I am about to describe .
Formation of the Discus Prcligerus in the Rabbit .
If we examine those'Graafian follicles in the rabbit 's ovary whose follicular epithelium is still composed of but a single layer of well-marked columnar cells , it may frequently be observed that one or more nuclei are imbedded in the peripheral layer of the vitellus ( fig. 14 , n ) , and this part of the vitellus may be marked off from the rest by a sector ( fig. 16 ) .
The nuclei in question are oval , with their long diameter parallel to the circumference of the ovum , and at right angles therefore to the long axis of the columnar cells and oval nuclei of the follicular epithelium .
The protoplasm in which they lie is more sharply marked off from this epithelium than it is from the vitellus , and , indeed , it looks like a part of the latter cut off , for it has the same finely granular appearance , is stained similarly to that with carmine and magenta , and is bounded externally by a direct continuation of the general circumferential line of the ovum .
Some ova are met with which have only one of these nuclei , others , in which there are two or more .
1/ Vhen more than one , they may make their appeal -ance in different parts of the periphery , and these parts being segmented off , the ovum , from being round may acquire a very irregular shape ( fig. 22 ) .
As before mentioned , the germinal vesicle is often bulged towards that part of the periphery of the vitellus where the nuclei are situated ( fig. 18 ) , and with care fine striations may occasionally be detected traversing the interval .
Such appearances incliue one to the 244 Mr. E. A. Schafer .
On Immature Ovarian Ovum [ Mar If belief that the nuclei are derived from the vesicle , but scarcely by distinct process of cell-division .
At least , I have never been able t detect anything- in the shape of a division-spindle .
The only othe possible explanation is that the nuclei and cells in question are derive-from cells of the follicular epithelium , which are situated in a differen plane from that included in the section , and burrow obliquely between the first formed layer and the vitellus of the ovum , imbedding them selves in the surface of the latter .
But this would not account for tin sharpness with which they are always marked off from the follicula\gt ; epithelium , and the fact that both nuclei and cell-substance differ materially in appearance and in their reaction to staining fluids from the nuclei and cell-substance of the first formed layer of epithelium .
However first formed , they soon multiply and spread around the whole of the ovum , so as to form a second complete layer of follicular epithelium , the cells of which in parts may be two deep .
They maintain for a time their disposition parallel to the circumference " of the ovum and transverse to the direction of the cells of the first formed layer ( fig. 17 ) .
Moreover , they still exhibit the same behaviour towards staining fluids as the vitellus itself .
But as the follicle continues to grow , and as the zona becomes formed between these cells and the vitellus , they acquire a columnar form with the long axis of the cell perpendicular to the surface of the ovum , their contents clear up , and they come to resemble the cells of the first formed layer in every particular ( fig. 20 ) .
The only statement that I know of which suggests a parallel between these appearances in the rabbit 's ovum and others of a similar nature elsewhere occurs in the description which Kuppfer gives of the formation of an inner layer of follicular epithelium ( which is said to develop into the test ) from nuclei which make their appearance in the peripheral layer of the vitellus of the ovum of ( 16 ) .
Unless it is permitted to cite the observations of Kleinenberg upon the formation of a layer of cells from the periphery of the ovum of Hydra , which cells take no part in the development of the ovum , but are simply transformed into a capsular envelope ( 1 ?
).* I have not been able to see anything of the kind in the Graafian follicles of other Mammals ( cat , dog , man ) .
Ovarian Ova of the Bitch .
The young ova ( figs. 27 to 29 ) have a germinal vesicle which contains a germinal spot and a beautiful intravesicular network .
Attached to one side of the germinal vesicle is the main part of the solid substance of the vitellus , and this vitelline mass is connected * There is one important difference between these cases and the appearances in the rabbit 's ovum above described , viz. , that in them the separation of cells from the vitellus occurs after fertilisation .
1880 .
] in the common Fowl and the Rabbit .
to the periphery of the ovum by branching processes .
The rest of the .ontents of the ovum is clear .
Post-Embryonic Formation of Graafian Follicles in the Bitch .
In sections of the ovary of a bitch-pup of eighteen days it is easy to convince oneself of the glandular mode of formation of the Graafian follicles and their contents .
Figs. 30 to 33 are representations of such ovarial glands , showing their communication at this period with the surface of the ovary .
In fig. 30 this communication is direct , and the whole structure bears a striking resemblance to a racemose aland whose saccules are filled with cells ; in fig. 31 the glands are longer and more irregular , and the duct , if we may call it so , does not pass straight to the surface , but in an oblique or even convoluted manner .
It is impossible to confound glandular tubes of this description with creases upon the surface of the ovary , as Foulis suggests that Pfliiger and Waldeyer have done ( 18 ) , especially since in many cases where the tubes are cut across , the lumen can be distinctly seen ( Fig. 32 ) .
We can see in the figures how portions of these solid columns of cells are becoming cut off into " egg-nests " by ingrowths of the ovarial matrix .
In many of these nests the primitive ova are already distinguishable from the other cells by their size and the clearness of their protoplasm .
But it often happens that the distinction does not appear until the group of cells which constitutes the nest is completely separated from the rest of the egg-tube .
Fig. 24 from the rabbit 's ovary illustrates the same fact .
In sections of the ovary of a young but nearly full-grown bitch the same glandular character of the superficial parts of the egg-tubes of Pfliiger is evident ( fig- 34 ) .
( 19 ) In most the open communication with the surface is lost , and the solid ends of the glands , which foim the " egg-columns , " properly so-called , have also become severed , and have sunk into the ovarial stroma .
But the lumen of the tube is still distinct , and the section is wonderfully like that of the duct of a small secreting gland .
Appearances like these seem to me to point very clearly to the conclusion that the typical mode of formation of the Graafian follicles and their contents is by a gland-like ingrowth of the ovarial epithelium , and that the process , which is described by Balfour , as occurring in the Elasmobranch and in the rabbit , is a modification of this typical mode .
For it must certainly be admitted that the deeper-seatedness of the columns of germinal epithelium as the ovary advances in development , cannot be wholly due to the outward growth of the ovarian stroma , since we see how that even after the ovary has attained its full size the Graafian follicles ( which are derived from 246 Mr. E. A. Schafer .
On Immature Ovarian Ovum [ Mar 18 these columns ) , as they successively mature , sink deeper into th substance of the organ .
It will be seen that the view which I have been led to take o the derivation of the ova and epithelium cells of the Graafian follicles is that both structures originate in common from the germinal epi thelium\#151 ; in the dog ( Pfluger , Waldeyer ) in the form of ingrowth which may closely simulate the formation of tubular glands ( ovaria glands ) ; in the rabbit ( Balfour ) in the form of columns of cells which are altogether solid , and which thus present a modifica .
tion of what is in all probability , as H. Ludwig 's extensive comparative researches have shown , the typical mode .
This is essentially the view first enunciated by Pfluger ( 20 ) for the vertebrate ovary , and differs materially from that of Poulis , who contends for the derivation of thej follicular epithelium from the connective tissue cells of the ovarian ; stroma .
I think that Dr. Poulis could not possibly have arrived at this result had he at first selected the ovary of the dog for study .
Above all the investigation of the human ovary in this respect teems v ith difficulties , both because it cannot be obtained fresh enough , and on account of the great relative development of the stroma .
On Dr. Poulis ' hypothesis that the first formed layer of follicular epithelium is only modified connective tissue , the development in the rabbit of the inner follicular epithelium from the ovum itself , as I have described it , would be quite incomprehensible , whereas , if both ova and epithelium have a common origin , there would be no morphological absurdity involved in this apparently exceptional mode of development ; especially since , as V. Beneden ( 21 ) and Balfour have shown , the permanent ova are for the most part produced by the fusion of two or more cells ( primitive ova ) , which originate from the germinal epithelium in common with the first formed layer .
REFERENCES TO LITERATURE .
1 .
Compare Eimer ( " Untersuchungen ueber die Eier der Reptilien , " I. " Archiv fur Mikroskopische Anatomie , " VIII , p. 218 .
) 2 Eimer ( loc. tit .
, p. 119 ) describes actual pores as existing in the much thickened membrane of the germinal vesicle of the ova of some reptiles .
3 .
This appearance has been remarked by several observers in hardened ova of the fish , reptile , and bird , but evidence is wanting to prove that it may not be a precipitation effect of the hardening reagent .
4 .
The pseudo-nuclei here described are very different in appearance from the yolknucleus which Dr. Allen Thomson has figured in the ovum of the frog ( " Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology , " Article " Ovum , " fig. 65b ) ; nor do they in any way resemble the " Dotterkeme " and " Dotterschoi'fe , " which Eimer describes in reptilian { loc. cit. , pp. 225 and 226 ) and Balfour in Elasmobranch ova ( " Structure and Development of the Vertebrate Ovary , " " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science , " vol. xviii , p. 411 ) .
5 .
The systems of fibres here described may be analogous to the pyramidal systems in the common Fowl and in the Rabbit .
1880 .
] of stri\#174 ; described by A. Schultz , in ovarian ova of the Torpedo .
( " Sir Ent-wickelungsgeschichte des Selachier-eies , " Arch. f. mikr .
Anat .
, " XI , p. 577 .
) h Waldeyer , " Eierstock undEi , " p. 62 , and fig. 25 .
Balfour , loc. cit. k G-egenbaur ( " Eier der Wirbelthiere mit partieller Dotterfurchung , Muller 's Archiv .
, , 1861 , p. 517 ) has described a similar homogeneous* layer in the reptilian ovum .
This is certainly the case in spite of Waldeyer 's reiterated assertion to the contrary ( loc. cit. , p. 58 ; and article " Eierstock , " in Strieker 's H Handbuch der Gewebelehre , " p. 557 ) .
10 .
Balfour , loc. cit. , p. 391 .
111 .
Waldeyer , " Eierstock and Ei , " pp. 40 and 47 .
12 E. F. W. Pfluger , " Untersuchungen sir Anatomy und Physiologic der Eier-stocke der Saugethiere .
" 4te .
Mittheilung .
a Med. Centralzeitung , " 1862 .
No. 90 .
13 .
Hj .
Lindgren .
u Ueber das Yorhandensein von wirklichen Poren-kanalchen in der zonapellucida des Saugethieres , " \amp ; c. " Arch. f. Anat .
u. Phys. " Anato-mische , Abtheilung , 1877 , p. 360 .
14 .
Wagener ( Bemerkungen ueber den Eierstock und den gelben Korper , " " Arch. f. Anat .
u. Phys. " Anatomische , Abth .
1879 , p. 181 ) describes and figures a connexion of the cells of the discus proligerus with the substance of the vitellus through the pores in the zona pellucida .
15 .
Compare Balfour , loc. cit. , p. 427 .
16 .
Kuppfer .
" Die Stammverwandtschaft zwischen Ascidien u. Wirbelthieren , " " Arch. f. mikr .
Anat .
, " Y , 459 .
17 .
N. Kleinenberg .
Hydra .
Leipzig , 1872 .
18 .
J. Foulis , " On the Development of the Ova and structure of the Ovary in Man and other Mammalia .
" " Transactions of the Boyal Society of Edinburgh , " 1875 , p. 362 .
19 .
Compare Waldeyer , loc. cit. , pp. 30 et seq. 20 .
" Untersuchungen , " \amp ; c. , 3te Mittheilung .
" Med. Centralzeitung , " 1862 , No. 88 ; and in his important monograph , " Ueber die Eierstocke der Saugethiere und Menschen , " 1862 .
F. Yalentin ( " Ueber die Entwickelung der Follikel in dem Eierstocke der Saugethiere , " " Muller 's Archiv .
, " 1838 ) described the glandular tubes in the ovary , but failed to recognise their connexion with the ovarial epithelium\#151 ; the true nature of which was not indeed recognised until Waldeyer drew especial attention to it .
21 .
Ed. van Beneden .
" Composition et signification de 1'oBuf , " 1868 .
DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES .
1 igs .
1 to 13 are from sections of hens ' ovaries , portions of which were hardened first in picric acid , and subsequently in alcohol .
The sections were made after imbedding by the method of soaking with cacao-butter ( " Course of Practical Histology , " p. 92 ) , and were stained either with logwood or with magenta .
Fig. 1 .
Germinal vesicle , germinal spot , and intra-vesicular network of a small ovarian ovum ( *305 millim. in diameter ) .
Magnified 250 diameters .
m.v. Membrane of germinal vesicle .
g. Break in the intra-vesicular network .
s 2 248 Mr. E. A. Schafer .
On Immature Ovarian Ovum [ Mar. 18 Fig. 2 .
Germinal spot of small ovum showing matrix and imbedded granules com posing the macula .
m. v. Membrane of germinal vesicle to which the macula is adherent .
ma .
Homogeneous matrix of germinal spot in which darkly stained granule are imbedded .
Diameter of ovum *488 millim. Magnified 250 diameters .
Fig. 3 .
Germinal vesicle and germinal spot of a very small ovum .
m. v.y ma .
, as before .
c. Central clear part of macula .
( Diameter of ovum *122 millim. .
o germinal vesicle *054 millim. ) Magnified about 600 diameters .
Fig. 4 .
Macula germinativa of a very small ovum .
( Diameter of ovum *122 millim. of macula *049 millim. ) Magnified 400 diameters .
Fig. 5 .
Small G-raafian follicle with ovum , showing two or three nucleus-like oon densations of the vitellus .
( Diameter of ovum *3 millim. ) Magnified 120 diameters .
Fig. 6 .
Smaller ovum ( *264 millim. ) than that represented in fig. 5 , but more highhj magnified , showing a condensation , c , of the vitelline network .
Fig. 7 .
Small piece of the wall of the germinal vesicle of a moderately sized ovurr ( 1*07 millim. , germinal vesicle *195 millim ) .
( a. ) On the flat .
( 6 .
) Seen in optical section .
The membrane is seen to have a granular appearance .
Fig. 8 .
Yery small ovarian ovum ( diameter *11 millim. ) with follicular epithelium germinal vesicle , and germinal spot ; and with a peculiar insulated body in the vitellus , which is apparently the remains of a second germinal vesicle and spot in process of disappearance .
Fig. 9 .
Part of a small ovum ( *3 millim. ) with two pseudo-nuclei in vitellus .
f. e. Follicular epithelium .
y. Yolk substance forming a network .
g. v. Part of the germinal vesicle .
Fig. 10 .
Superficial layers of a comparatively large ovum ( 1*586 millim. ) f. e. Follicular epithelium .
jp .
Pyriform cell . ?
I. Clear superficial layer of vitellus ; II .
Finely granular layer\#151 ; its granules are largest near tho first layer ; III .
White yolk ij IY .
Superficial part of yellow yolk .
Drawn under a magnifying power of about 500 diameters .
Fig. 11 .
Superficial part of a still larger ovum ( 2*44 millim. ) .
f. e. Follicular epithelium .
z. r. Zona radiata .
Fig. 12 .
Thick section of a comparatively large ovum , showing the peculiar system* of fibres described in the text .
Slightly magnified ( about 111 diameters ) .
Fig. 13 .
The upper part of the previous figure .
Magnified 40 diameters .
Figs. 14 to 26 are from sections of rabbits ' ovaries .
Fig. 14 .
Small Graafian follicle , the follicular epithelium forming a single layer wj columnar oells .
v. g. Germinal vesicle , the wall of which seems to be deficient at tnllj part .
m. Macula , composed of a mass of granules , imbedded in a homogen j matrix .
n. Nucleus in the periphery of the vitellus .
570 diameters .
I Pig .
15 .
Small Graafian follicle , not yet completely cut off from the rest of 880 .
] in the , common Fowl and in the Rabbit .
c\lt ; Ei-sclilauch .
" The germinal vesicle seems to be connected by fine lines with two small nuclei at the periphery of the vitellus .
16 .
Small Graafian follicle , similar to that represented in Fig. 14 .
At one side two nuclei are seen in the peripheral part of the vitellus .
The area in which they lie is marked off by a line from the rest of the vitellus .
Indistinct strife pass from here towards the germinal vesicle .
570 diameters .
'ig .
17 .
Graafian follicle , with a complete inner layer of follicular epithelium .
This differs markedly from the outer layer in the appearance and arrangement of the cells .
The irregular outline of the ovum is to be re-\#166 ; marked .
Drawn under a magnifying power of about 350 diameters .
\lt ; V. 18 .
Small follicle , with single layer of epithelium .
Germinal vesicle presents a bulging on that side of it which is turned towards a nucleus-like body in the periphery of the vitellus .
The figure is otherwise like figs. 14 and 16 , but somewhat less magnified .
19 .
Small follicle , showing three cells in periphery of vitellus .
Magnified about 240 diameters .
pig 20 .
A Graafian follicle , much further advanced towards maturity than any of those above represented .
The cells of the inner layer of the follicular epithelium have by this time assumed their characteristic columnar form and radiating arrangement .
The macula germinativa is , as before mentioned , formed of a homogeneous matrix , with dark granules imbedded in it .
The zona jpellucida is now distinct .
Magnified 570 diameters .
Fig. 21 .
Small follicle , with ovum .
An intra-nuclear network connects a small germinal spot with the w^all of the vesicle .
The vitellus is in the form of a network of filaments .
Magnified about 200 diameters .
Fig. 22 .
Small follicle , with outer layer of epithelium complete and a few cells of inner layer formed between this and the ovum .
The germinal vesicle contains three small germinal spots united by a network .
The vitellus also exhibits a network of delicate filaments .
Magnified about 450 diameters .
Fig. 23 a. A small portion of the zona jpellucida of an ovum from a large Graafian follicle , together with some of the cells of the discus proligerus , which are mixed with it .
A layer of granular substance is seen to intervene between these cells and the outer surface of the zona , and granules similar to those of this substance can be traced through pores in the zona into continuity with the granules of the vitellus .
Drawn under a power of about 750 diameters .
Fig. 23 b. Germinal vesicle of an ovum from a large follicle .
m. v. Membrane of vesicle .
The maculata germinativa is in the form of a number of spherical globules , one of which is much larger than the rest .
The remainder of the contents of the vesicle is clear .
Fig. 24 .
A row of four so-called " nests " from near the surface of the ovary of a young rabbit .
The egg-cell has not yet increased in size beyond the other cells of the nest .
Magnified about 450 diameters .
Figs. 25 and 26 .
Two very small follicles , with young ova .
In fig. 26 two germinal vesicles are seen .
From the same ovary and magnified to the same extent as fig. 24 .
I igs .
27 to 35 are from sections of the bitch 's ovary .
Figs. 27 , 28 , and 29 represent small Graafian follicles , containing young ova .
In each the germinal vesicle is seen to contain an intra-vesicular network , and the vitellus is collected into a patch which is in contact 250 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into [ Mar. is with the germinal vesicle , and is connected with the periphery of ti ovum by ramified offsets .
Fig. 30 .
Section of superficial part of ovary of a bitch pup , eighteen days old , show-ing gland-like connexion of egg-tubes with the surface of the ovary str .
Ovarial stroma .
5 Fig. 31 .
From another section of the same ovary , showing more oblique connexion of egg-tuhes with the surface .
o. e. Ovarial epithelium .
Stroma not represented .
Fig. 32 .
From another part , showing two other of the gland-like connexions cut across and obliquely .
Fig. 33 .
A very oblique connexion , cut longitudinally .
Fig. 34 .
Section of superficial part of ovary of a young bitch , almost full-grown , showing some of the ovarial glands ( connexions of egg-tuhes with surface of ovary ) .
Cut across and obliquely .
Fig. 35 .
A peculiar convoluted tube from the deeper part of the same ovary , almost filled with long , tapering columnar cells .
a. Either the same or a similar tube , cut across .
II .
" Researches into the Colouring Matters of Human Urine , with an Account of the Separation of Urobilin .
" By C. A MacMunn , B.A. , M.D. Communicated by A. Gamgee , M.D. , F.R.S. , Brackenbury Professor of Practical Physiology and Histology in Owens College , Manchester .
Received March 15 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper an account of the spectroscopic and chemical characters of urobilin is given .
Urobilin is a pigment which has been diagnosed in urine by means of the spectroscope , and which has not been hitherto isolated .
Before its discovery in urine a pigment had been obtained by Jaffe by acting on human bile with nitric acid , and on dog 's bile with hydrochloric acid , and subsequent treatment , which in solution gave the same spectrum , and behaved in the same manner with reagents as urine containing urobilin .
By an examination of the bile of seventeen animals , I have shown that it is present as such in the bile of all them , but in greatest abundance in the bile of the mouse ; and the results are described in the paper , while the spectra are shown in Chart II .
I have also shown that human urine always gives an absorption band afc F , which almost always is affected in the same manner by re* agents as the pigment got by Jaff6 from bile , and that if this band is not so affected another pigment called urolutein is present , which 1 describe and have mapped in Chart I. I have succeeded in isolating urobilin by the following method:\#151 ; Having procured some urine which by preliminary spectroscopic and jPr\gt ; oCsiRoy .
So\amp ; .VoL.30 .
Ply .
Z. Pt*o c. Roy , SocVo L.30 .
PTs .
3 .
fyr .
tfafer- Proa-Roy .
Soc VoZ

