550 Some Stars with Peculiar Spectra .
By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.B.S. , LL. D. , Sc. D. , and F. E. Baxandall , A.RC .
S. ( Received May 5 , \#151 ; Read May 17 , 1906 .
) In a paper on the chemical classification of the stars* communicated to the Royal Society on May 4 , 1899 , it was pointed out that it was then possible to classify the stars according to their chemistry .
In a later publicationf the spectra of the brighter stars were arranged in groups according to the suggested classification .
In the course of this work it was found that in the case of a few stars the spectra show certain peculiarities , and do not altogether conform to any common type .
The most notable of these stars are a Andromedm , 6 Aurigse , a Canum Venaticorum , and e Ursae Majoris .
These are all on the descending side of the Kensington curve of stellar temperature , the first three being of the Markabian type and the last of the Sirian type .
The present paper contains a short account of their spectra .
More minute discussion will be reserved for a subsequent memoir .
a Andromedce .
This star has been recently found by Slipher , of the Lowell Observatory , to be a spectroscopic binary .
In the published statement* to that effect , the period is given as about 100 days .
This result has been based on measures of the displacement of the Hv and Mg 4481 " 3 lines from their normal position .
The Lowell publication does not give an account of the -general nature of the stellar spectrum , and there is no mention of any changes in the relative intensity of any of the lines .
Prior to this announcement of Slipher , an investigation of various spectra of uAirtlromedae , taken between the years 1900\#151 ; 1904 at Kensington , appeared to indicate slight changes in the relative intensity , position , and definition of some of the lines in the various photographs .
In the classification a Andromedse was placed in the Markabian group , the accepted type star for which is \#171 ; Pegasi ( Markab ) .
The Markabian stage is on the descending side of the temperature curve immediately higher than the Sirian stage , and below the Algolian ( / Persei ) .
Although placed in the Markabian group , \#171 ; Andromedse , as determined by the behaviour of the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 65 , p. 186 .
t ' Catalogue of 470 of the Brighter Stars , ' published by the Solar Physics Committee .
f 'Lowell Observatory Bulletin , ' No. 11 .
Some Stars with Peculiar Spectra .
551 helium lines in its spectrum , represents a slightly higher stage , but it approaches more closely to the type star of the Markabian group ( a Pegasi ) than to that of the higher temperature Algolian group ( / 3Persei ) .
Its acceptance as a Markabian star was based on the behaviour in its spectrum of the lines of hydrogen , helium , magnesium , silicium , etc. Next to the lines of hydrogen and helium , the most prominent lines which have been traced to known terrestrial elements are those of silicium Group II ( XX4128*20,4131*04 ) , proto-magnesium X 4481 '3 , and proto-calcium ( X 3933-83 ) .
The strongest enhanced lines of iron , chromium , carbon , and titanium are present , but only occur as comparatively weak lines .
In addition to these lines of known origin there occur several strange and well-marked lines , not found in the spectrum of any other star yet examined , and for which no satisfactory terrestrial origin has yet been found .
Of the strange lines , those at XX3943-9 , 3984-1 , 4137*0 , 4206*3 and 4282*4 are the most prominent .
All except X 4206*3 agree closely in position with fairly strong solar lines , one ( X 3944*1 ) ascribed by Eowland to Al , the others to Fe , but there is no evidence obtainable from the Kensington Laboratory spectra that these lines of aluminium and iron behave specially under varying conditions and the approximate agreement in wave-length is possibly a fortuitous one .
As the strongest stellar lines , apart from those of hydrogen , are all enhanced lines of certain metals , it would also appear probable that the strange lines mentioned are due to some element or elements not yet found terrestrially or for which , if found , tlj^re is yet no record of enhanced lines .
The records of other celestial spectra , such as those of nebulae , bright-line stars , and novae , have all been searched for possible identification of some of their lines with the strange lines in a Andromedae , but with no success .
Although , as has been stated , there appear to be slight changes in relative intensity , position or definition of some of the lines in the a Andromedae spectrum , there does not seem to be any regularity in the changeSj either in the lines themselves or in the manner in which they are affected , so that at the present stage it is not possible to come to any conclusion as to their real significance .
Whether the changes have any relation to the period established by Slipher cannot be settled from the existing photographs , and additional photographs of the stellar spectrum at extended intervals will be necessary to throw more light on this point .
6 Aurigce .
Like aAndromedse , this star has , in the Kensington classification , been placed in the Markabian group , the type of which is a Pegasi .
Its spectrum Sir N. Lockyer and Mr. F. E. Baxandall .
[ May .
5 , resembles that of a Pegasi more closely than that of either / 3 Persei , the type star of the Algolian , the next higher group , or Sirius , the representative of the next lower group ( Sirian ) .
The 0 Aurigse spectrum , however , lacks the helium line 447l"7 and its real position is intermediate to a Pegasi\#151 ; in which the helium line mentioned is weakly represented\#151 ; and Sirius , in which the helium lines are lacking .
Apart from the hydrogen lines , the chief feature of the spectrum of #Aurigse is the prominence of the lines of silicium Groups I and II , the behaviour of which in the silicium spectrum has been discussed in a previous paper.* The proto-magnesium line 448P3 is moderately strong , but the lines of proto-calcium , proto-iron , proto-titanium , proto-strontium , proto-chromium , although present , are comparatively weak .
In addition to the lines of known origin , there are a few which appear to be special to this spectrum .
The stronger of these are near 3954-3 ( 3\#151 ; 4 ) , 4076-3 , 4191-8 ( 2\#151 ; 3 ) , 4200-7 ( 2\#151 ; 3 ) , and 4377-0 ( 3 ) .
These lines form an entirely different set from the strange lines in the spectrum of i\ndromedse .
Reference to records of terrestrial spectra has afforded no satisfactory results as to the origin of these lines .
One of them 4200'7 ) apparently agrees in position with one of the series of lines discovered by Professor Pickering in the spectrum of \#163 ; Puppis .
In the absence of the other lines of the series , however , it is scarcely likely that the line is of identical origin in the two cases .
a Canum Venaticorum .
This star has also been placed in the Markabian group in the Kensington classification , and its general spectrum is very similar to that of 6 Aurigse , one of the stars previously discussed .
Of this stellar spectrum , Pickering remarks that the K line of calcium is extremely faint , and the lines 4128-5 , 4131-4 ( subsequently traced to silicium Group II ) are stronger than in the normal spectra of the same class .
Some of the fainter lines , he says , appear to be of " peculiar wave-length . .
All these abnormalities have been confirmed by an investigation of the Kensington spectra of this star .
The lines in the spectrum are , in general , only faint , the most prominent , apart from those of hydrogen , being the silicium lines previously mentioned and the enhanced magnesium line 4481 3 .
The more pronounced enhanced lines of iron , titanium and chromium , aie present , but weak .
The ordinary metallic arc lines , which occur prominently in the lower type stars , are lacking .
* i Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 67 , p. 403 .
1906 .
] Some Stars with Peculiar Spectra .
Some of the strange lines\#151 ; that is , lines not in the normal spectrum of the same general type\#151 ; appear to be identical with those in 6 Aurigse .
Thus there are lines whose wave-lengths are approximately 3954*3 , 4076*5 , 4136*3 , 4192 0 , and 4376*8 , which occur in Aurigse , but not in the normal spectrum .
There are no lines of considerable intensity special to a Canum Venaticorum , though some of the fainter lines seem to be peculiar to this spectrum .
e Ur see Majoris .
This star has , in the Kensington classification , been placed in the Sirian group , the type star of which is Sirius .
From the intensity of some of the metallic lines it is apparently somewhat lower on the temperature curve than the Sirian , coming between that and the Procyonian type .
Its spectrum , however , resembles the Sirian more than the Procyonian .
The spectrum has been carefully compared with that of Sirius , and any differences in intensity or position of the lines noted .
These will be given in detail in a future paper .
What peculiarities there are , however , are chiefly confined to alterations in relative intensity of certain lines , very few lines having been found which do not occur in the Sirian spectrum .
The spectrum does not , therefore , diverge from the normal type so much as in the case of a Andromedse and 6 Aurigse .
The most noticeable features of the comparison of this spectrum with the Sirian spectrum are the weakening of the Group II silieium lines at X4128\#151 ; 4131 , and the strengthening of the enhanced lines of chromium in the former spectrum .
Certain of the enhanced lines of titanium and iron seem to be affected , but , as a class , the lines of neither of these elements are affected so much as those of chromium .
There are a few cases of lines occurring in e Ursse Majoris which appear to be lacking in Sirius , but these are nearly all weak lines .
The photographs of the stellar spectra were all taken with one 6-inch Henry objective prism of 45 ' angle .
The dispersion is such that the distance between He and Hp is 1*85 inches or 4*6 cm .
The various photographs involved in the discussion were obtained by Messrs. Baxandall , Butler , Kolston , and Moss .

