The reading of a paper entitled , " On the action of certain Inorganic Compounds when introduced directly into the Blood .
" By James Blake , Esq. , M.R.C.S. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
The present paper is a continuation of a memoir read at the Aca ?
demi des Sciences of Paris , in 1839 , and entitled , " Effets de diverses substances salines , injectees dans le syst6me circulatoire * .
After some preliminary remarks on the mode in which the experiments were conducted , and on the assistance derived from the hcemadynamometer of Poiseuille ( or instrument for measuring the pressure of the blood circulating in the vessels ) , the author gives a list of the various saline substances of which he noted the effects when they were severally injected either into the venous or the arterial systems , arranged according to the nature of those effects .
He finds , in general , that all the salts having the same base exert similar actions when introduced directly into the blood .
He carefully inquires into the pha ?
nomena apparently arising from the direct contact of each of the substances above enumerated with the animal tissues ; and more particularly into the effects produced on the heart , on the muscular and the nervous tissues , and on the pul ?
monary and systemic capillaries .
The first series of experiments related are those on the action of the salts of magnesia : these are found , when introduced in any quantities into the blood , to arrest altogether the action of the heart ; but a still more remarkable effect which results , is the complete prostration of muscular power .
The salts of zinc have a similar operation under the same circumstances , but produce the same effects in smaller quantities .
The action of the salts of copper , of lime , of strontia , of baryta , and of lead , are considered successively in the order in which they are more closely related by their physiological actions .
The author particularly notices the peculiar action which the salts of the three last-named substances exercise on the muscular tissues , occasioning contractions in them during many minutes after death produced by their introduction into the blood .
These mucular movements were , in some cases , observed forty-five minutes after the cessation of the heart 's action .
Experiments with the salts of silver and of soda are then detailed - , substances , which exhibit a remarkable similarity in their actions on the pulmonary tissue , on the heart , and on the systemic capillaries : for while , in the case of all the other salts already mentioned , death seems to be produced by the destruction of the irritability of the heart , the fatal result with the salts of silver and of soda is the consequence of their action on the tissue of the lungs .
The physiological actions of the salts of ammonia and of potass were found by the author not to correspond with any of the preceding .
Although agreeing perfectly with one another in their action upon the heart and systemic capillaries , they differ extremely in their effects on the nervous tissue ; ammonia being particularly distinguished from all inorganic compounds in this respect , and being very analogous to poisons derived from or ?
ganic products , which it also resembles in its chemical properties .
The general conclusion which the author is led to draw from these researches is , that there exists a close relation between the chemical properties of the substances experimented upon , and their physiolo ?
gical effects ; his experiments tending to prove , that , when introduced into the blood , substances which are isomorphous exert similar actions on the living tissues .
He notices , however , two exceptions to this law ; namely , the similarity of the actions exerted on the pul ?
monary tissue by the salts of lead with those of silver , although these salts are not isomorphous ; and also the action on the nervous tissue of the salts of ammonia being different from that of the salts of potass .
But he remarks that the oxide of lead bears a close analogy to the oxide of silver in its relation to organic compounds .
The general fact previously announced by the author in his memoir read to the Academy of Sciences at Paris , namely , that salts with the same base have analogous actions , may be considered as a corollary of the above law .

