Fig. II k Fig. III q mq q q q q q k kq kq kq k kq f bbbbbbbbZ Fig. IIII abchgf demlk Fig. V hgfcba D E E NS Accounts of Books .
( 1 .
) Le grand &amp; fameux Problem de la Quadrature du Cercle resolu Geometriquement par le Cercle &amp; la Ligne droite , par Monsieur Mallement de Messange .
A Paris , in 12~ 1686 .
With a Refutation of the same , by Mr. D. Cluverius .
Reg. S. Soc. THis Author is one of those unhappy Geometricians , who without having acquired a through Understanding of the Principles , have yet thought themselves able to master the abstrusest Difficulties in this nice Mathematical Science , where the least oversight or mistake subverts the whole superstructure .
Hence it is , that the true Quadrature of the Circle here pretended to , is lost upon the same Rock with those many others , which the less knowing and more opinionated of their own Skill have produced , in this and the last Century : But briefly to show wherein the Paralogism of our Author consists , we must first lay down the construction , whereby he pretends to do the Business : In Tab. 2 .
Fig. 2 .
let fkzk be a Circle , faz the Diameter , a the Center , kzk an equilateral Triangle inscribed , Bba line equal to the three sides of that Triangle , and dividing the Arch fk equally in i , the line ie will be half the side of a Hexagon inscribed , which side taken 6 times , is the line eE = to the circumference of the Hexagon ; and dividing the Arch if in h , the fine hd is half the side of the Dodecagon inscribed , and Dd= 24 hd is the circumference of the Dodecagon ; and proceeding after the same manner , the circumferences of Polygons of 24 , 48 , 96 sides , &amp;c. may be found , approaching still nearer and nearer to the circumference of the Circle , which at length will be equal to the line fF in the Tangent ; but how to find the Point F is all the Skill : Here our Author tells us , that the Points BEDF are all in the Arch of a Circle , whose center is in the line fz continued ; but to contract his Work into a little compass , he assures us that it is all one , if instead of the whole circumferences B b , E e , D d , Ff he take the lines b q , e p , d o , f m , each a third part of its correspondent , and that in this case too , the Circle whose Center is L , taken in the Diameter fz continued , shall pass through the Points o , p , q and intersect the Tangent Ff in the Point m , so as to leave fm = to a third of the circumference of the Circle ; which supposition being proved to be groundless and erroneous , all the consequences drawn from thence must be so too .
If our Author had but considered what the intermediate Points of the Curve between o &amp; p , p &amp; q , q &amp; t ought to express , he could not but have discovered the fallacy himself , for the lines o d , p e , qb are each proportioned to f m , as the sines k b , i e , hd to their respective Arches k f , i f , h f , and so of all the rest between o and m. This would have taught him , that the Curve he has occasion to use , did universally express the Proportion of the Arches to their Sines , by that of the line fm to its respective ordinates ; that it was a sort of Linea Quadratrix , to be reckoned among the Lineae Geometrice Irrationales , or such whose relation between the parts of the Diameter and the Ordinates , are not generally expressible by any one Equation ; that this Curve did intersect the Circle in the middle of the Arch k z , and continge it in the point z. This Curve will be better understood in Fig. 3 , where it is drawn as it ought , and wherein the proportion of the line fm to the lines q b , is as any Arch kf is to its Sine k b. Tis evident , that this Curve is not the Circle mopqt in Fig. 2 , yet tis not apparent but that a Circle passing through the point m , may intersect it in several points , as o , p , q : ( but to suppose it to pass through all the extremities of the Circumferences of the infinite Polygons between the Circle and Triangle , or their thirds , is to make it coincident with that Curve .
) It remains therefore to show , that the Circle passing through p and q , whose center is in the Line f z , does not pass through the point o , which from the following Considerations will be made evident .
First let it be required , by the extremities of the lines a , b , c , or h , g , f ( in Fig.4 ) parallel one to another and d , e , or k , l , given as parts or segments of the Axis or Diameter of the Figure , to determine what curvity passes through their extremities .
according to the conditions of the five Conical Sections .
First if it be found that bhaacc+a a/ d e+ee is equal to I= ccaa cc + bb/ dd +e d , then it is the Characteristic of a Circle , the Lines a , b , c being disposed in an uniform increasing order : But if c the biggest stands in the middle , then cca a/ d d+ed+ccb b/ e e+de=I=ccb b/ d e+bba a/ d e+dd will show the same .
If the Lines d , e be segments of a line drawn parallel to the Axis , then transposing and ordering the foregoing Equations , Rules also may be found accordingly .
If c b/ b a= e/ d , or ca e/ b ad = I , then the Line passing through the Extremities is right : If ccb b/ b baa= e/ a , then a Parabola is designed .
The Characteristic of an Hyperbola or Ellipsis differs not from that of a Circle , but only by a Relation to the inequality of the Axes , and the alteration of the Signs + and - .
Secondly , out of a , b , d , or b , c , e , lines given , that stand in the Arch of a Circle , to find the Distance from the Center = to m , or m+ e , and to determine the Radius .
There is a little variety in the case , when the given lines are in the same Quadrant or otherwise : but there being only occasion for this first Case , the Rule is this , ccb b/ 2 e+ 1/ 2 e=e+ m : And ~cccc2ccbb+bbb b/ 4 ee+ 1/ 4 ee+ 1/ 2 bb+ 1/ 2 cc= Radius .
Thirdly , in a Circle , having a , b , d and e , to find c : The Equation is b2ea2 e/ d de e2+b2=c 2 .
Fourthly : To inscribe Polygones in a continual double Progression within a Circle , many different Rules may be given : the following will serve , which is the same with that , how to find the subtense of an Arch , out of the subtense of a double Arch. The Rule is thus ; 2R2~4R4A2R2=B 2 ; Supposing A to be the Chord of a double Arch , and B of a single Arch. From hence it is easily deduced , that ~3R2 being the side of an equilateral Triangle inscribed , the side of a Hexagon will be R : of the Dodecagon ~ un 3/ 2 R2~ 1/ 2 R 2 : and so for the rest .
Now reducing according to these Equations the Lines to Numbers , it will be found that in Fig. 2 Tab. 2 bq= 173205,08 ab= 50000,00 ep= 200000,00 eb= 36602,54 fm= 209439,51 do= 207055,23 de= 9990,04 But supposing , as our Author will have it , that do stands in the same Circle with bq and e p , it follows that the square of do= 422638679 &amp;c. whereas it should have been equal to 428718707 &amp;c. Square of do in the Table .
The Square of the Tangent fm is also a great deal to small , and the whole Quadrature too little : All which make it appear , that the Glory of Lewis the Great is not ( as this Book pretends ) much advanced by the Atchivements of this Author ; who would have done well , in a Matter that so little needed it , to have forborn to make use of the sacred Words of our Saviour , II .
Voiage de Siam des Peres Jesuites envoyez par el Roy aux Indes &amp; a la Chine .
A Paris 1686 .
4 ~ .
THIS is a second Relation of the Voiage and Embassy of the French to the King of Siam in the Year 1685 , and being a more particular Account than the former , an extract of this , it was thought , might suffice for both : That was composed by le Chevalier Chaumont the Ambassador , and now this by le Pere Tachart Jesuite , who was one of six Fathers of his Order , that went with the Ambassador , as Missionaries to China .
The whole being much interspersed with matters of Religion and Ceremony , I shall only take notice of such things as relate to Arts and Sciences , and particularly of the Astronomical Observations made at the Cape of Good Hope and at Siam ; whereby the Longitudes of those places are stated : following herein the Authors method .
He divides his Treatise into six Books , whereof the first contains the Voiage from Breast to the Cape of Good-Hope .
Here he gives the reasons and motives of sending this Embassy , as likewise the six Jesuites who are Mathematicians and by the Kings Letters Patents are so stiled ; Their Instructions being , besides their Spiritual Function , to prosecute the business of the Royal Academy of Paris ( of which they are admitted Members ) by accurately observing the curious things in Art and Nature , and particularly to make Observations for discovering the Longitudes of the Places where they pass ; for which purpose they are well provided with Instruments .
They sailed from Breast on the third of March st. n. and arrived at the Cape of Good-Hope the last day of May , taking notice by the way of the several remarkables in that Voiage , which are here too well known to need repeating ; But mentioning the faultiness and rectification of the Southern Constellations , our Author is not willing to take notice of what has been done in that matter by a member of the Royal Society of London , tho ' his Catalogue of those Stars hath been translated from Latin into French and Printed at Paris , and an Account thereof is in the Journal des Scavans of Aug. 7 .
&amp; Sep. 4 .
1679 ; but speaks of it as a thing not done , wishing they had had the opportunity to augment the Science of Astronomy , by observing them themselves .
The second Book is entitled the Voyage from the Cape of Good-Hope to the Iland Java ; but is chiefly taken up with the description of the Colonie of the Hollanders there , the Natives , and the Astronomical Observations they made there during their stay , by which they have determined the Longitude of the Cape of Good-Hope 18 degrees to the East of Paris : ( but we here must beg leave to make a Remark ) He mentions 7 several Nations of the Natives , viz. the Hottentots , whom he describes at large , the Namaquaas , ( of these two there are the Figures ) the Ubiquaas , the Gouriquaas , Ilassiquaas , Sousiquaas and the Odiquaas : and here he relates a Voiage made in the Year 1685 , as far as the Tropic , by the Governor of the Cape , Mr. Vanderstell ; who is said to have found about the Latitutde of 27 degrees and about 10 or 12 leagues from the shore , a Nation of Natives that are very Musical , who have long Hair flowing on their shoulders , some of the Men as White as Europeans , and their Women Naturally very White , but they Blacken themselves to please their Husbands : This Nation seems to have much more Intelligence than their Neighbours , but some circumstances seem to argue it Fabulous .
Here are likewise the Figures of a Stagg with Horns like a Goat , of the Zembra , the Sea Cow , the Cerastes or Horned Serpent , the Camelion , and two sorts of uncommon Lizards , whereof one is made to have 3 fair Crosses on his back : Speaking of Elephants he says he was told by creditable persons , that they had seen the foot steps of Elephants two foot and half diameter ; and that there are Rhinocerotes there as Sigg as ordinary Elephants , but , by I know not what mistake , he makes the Rhinocerote a two horned Animal .
The Voiage age from the Cape to Jaua ( in fight whereof they arrived Aug. 5th.st .
n. ) contains nothing very Extraordinary .
The third Book is the Voiage from Java to the Kingdom of Siam : which is chiefly taken up with what occurred at Bantam and Batavia , and at their arrival on the Coast of Siam , here are represented the Roads of Bantam and Batavia , together with the Plan of the City and Fortress of Batavia .
The fourth Book describes the Entry and Audience of the French Ambassador at the Court of Siam , who , as they say , was received with more Honour and Respect , than was ever yet shown to any Ambassador whatever ; and that even those of Persia , the Mogul and the Tartar Emperor of China , ( tho ' his neighbour , and by much the most Potent Monarch of the Universe ) present themselves before the King of Siam on their Knees , whereas Mr. Chaumont the French Ambassador made his harangue , sitting with his Hat on his Head .
Here are described the Baloons or Barges of State which are used at Siam , which are of a very odd Figure , as of Serpents or Sea-Horses , but which by their sharpness and number of Oars are of an incredible Swiftness : here likewise it is related that the old White Elephant of the King of Siam is near upon 300 Years Old ; as also that there are Tumblers there , of an extraordinary Agility , as that they would stand upon one Foot on the top of a Bamboo of 80 or 100 Foot high , and then turn themselves , and stand on their Heads thereon , and afterwards hang , by the Chin only , on the top of the same , and then descend by a Ladder down right , with an incredable Swiftness , working their Bodies all the while through the Rounds of the Ladder .
The fifth Book is entitled the Return of the Voiage of Siam , and first relates several notable Shows presented to entertain the Ambassador ; as the fight of two Elephants , who were only suffered to twist each others Teeth , as Bulls do their Horns ; the fight of an Elephant and a Tiger or rather a Panther according to the description ; and the manner of catching the wild Elephants , by alluring them into an enclosure by the means of a Female tame Elephant , and the like .
Next are related several Observations of the variation of the Magnetical Needle , which was found towards the end of the Year 1685 , to be about half a degree West , at Louvo near Siam ; as likewise the Observation of an Eclipse of the Moon on the 10th .
December st. n. post mediam noctem , made at a place near Louvo called Thee-Poussonne , in the presence of the King .
It begun about 15h .
20m .
the total Darkness at 16h .
23m .
45s .
the Emersion or end of Total Darkness at 18h .
2m .
3~s .
or rather , as is there said , at 18h .
10m .
25s .
whereby the Longitude of this place is found 98 degrees and half from Paris , and about 6h .
45m .
to the East of London , as may be seen by comparing this Observation with the Observations thereof made at Dantzick , Nurenburg and Lisbon , Published in Philos. Transact. Num. 178 , 182 and 184 .
And whereas tis here said that some Charts have made the Longitude of Siam above 20 degrees more than it is , tis to be understood only of the Charts of Sanson , which in this particular are the worst extant : But that this Correction is just , we are fully satisfied , by the like errors in those parts , discovered and published in the Philosoph. Collect .
of Feb. 168 1/ 2 , and in Philos. Trans. of June 1683 .
The relation of the homeward bound Voiage ( which was of about 6 Months ) is short and contains very few considerable Remarks .
The sixth and last Book is of the manners and Religion of the Siammers , where is a short description of the Kingdom and Capital City of Siam : Next the habits of the People , and their use of Betele , Arek , and Tea is described , as like wise the Root Ginseng so much esteemed in the East , with its Virtues and Uses .
As to the Religion of this people , which is here described at large , I shall say little to it , as not falling under our Argument , only one principal point therein is the Metempsychosis of Pythagoras and the Bramines , and they hold the Eternity of the World , but on the contrary they suppose God Mortal , Corporeal and produced in time : their present God they call Sommonokhodom .
A Remark concerning the Longitude of the Cape of Good Hope .
IN the second Book of this Voiage are related two Observations of the Satellites of Jupiter , capable , if well made , to ascertain the Longitude of the Cape of Good Hope .
The first was there made June 2d .
st. n. 1685 , when at 11h .
29m .
20s .
the first or innermost Satellite touched the Western edge of Jupiter and at 11h .
30m .
50s .
it appeared no more : this Observation is said to be made with an excellent Telescope of twelve Foot : The other was on June 4th .
following st. n. when the Emersion of the same Satellite was observed at 9h .
37m .
40s .
from which latter is concluded , that the Longitude of the Cape is 18 gr. to the East of Paris , for that the said Emersion , according to the Calculus of Sigr .
Cassini , in the Meridian of Paris ought to have happened at 8h .
26m .
This same Emersion is computed by Mr. Flamsteed at 8h .
19m .
at London , that is , 3m .
later than by Sigr .
Cassini ; and considering that neither is verified by Observation in Europe , the Longitude hence deduced is doubtful at least 3 minutes , if this had been the only Observation : But the former being considered will yet show that there is a much greater doubt still remaining : For from certain Astronomical principles the parallax of the Orb , or difference between the place of Jupiter seen from the Sun and Earth was , at the time of the first Observation , 9 gr. 19m .
which Arch that Satellite moves in 1h .
6m .
and the utmost duration of an Eclipse thereof in this position of Jupiter being scarce 2h .
20m .
( as appears by the accurate Observations of Mr. Cassini and Mr. Flamsteed ) it will follow , that from the Immersion behind Jupiters Western Edg , to the Emersion out of the shadow , there could not be full 3h .
26m .
wherefore the Emersion out of the shadow , on June 2d .
ought , according to the time of the Immersion , to be at 14h .
56m .
at latest , at the Cape ; which by Mr. Flamsteeds Calculus was at London 13h .
51m .
or according to Sigr .
Cassini at 13h .
58m .
at Paris .
Hence the Longitude of the Cape will be found but 14 degrees and half at most to the East of Paris ; so that these 2 Observations will differ in the result about a quarter of an hour ; which is a little too much .
However there are some reasons that seem to argue for this latter Longitude rather than the former ; for it is much easier to observe what becomes of a luminous Object that appears , than to wait upon the first appearance of a Star Eclipsed : and tis probable that the Satellite might , in the latter time , be several minutes Emerged out of the shadow , when they might first perceive it ; but they could not but see the application to the Body of Jupiter in the former , if we may suppose their Telescopes so good as they are said to be : And that the Cape of Good Hope is not more than an hour to the East of Paris , is proved by the constant consent of our Navigators , who find by their Reckonings that the Island of St. Helena is about 22 or 23 degrees of Longitude to the Westward of the Cape : ( and that Sailing both backward and forwards tis the same , which takes away the Objection of Currents ) now by accurate Observations made at St. Helena , and compared with others made in Europe at the same time , the Longitude of that Isle is certainly about 8 1/ 2 degrees to the West of Paris : It follows therefore that the Cape cannot be much more than 14 or 15 degrees to the East of Paris ; and undoubtedly it must be less than 18 , for 3 degrees is much too great an Error to be committed in so short a distance Sailing .

