48 Prof. R. Boyce and Mr. A. E. Evans .
[ Feb. 23 , II .
" Upon the Action of Gravity on Bacterium .
" By Rubert Boyce , M.B. , Assistant Professor of Pathology , University College , London , and A. Ernest Evans , M.B. , C.M. , Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor Horsley , F.R.S. Received February 7 , 1893 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory of University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) Bacterium Zopfii was accidentally discovered by Earth , in Zopf 's laboratory , in the alimentary canal of the fowl .
He showed it to be pleomorphic , and observed its radiate mode of growth , and , in addition , its great tendency to form spirals .
It was rediscovered by Crookshank in Johne 's laboratory in Dresden ; this observer obtained it from the air , and likewise noted the characteristic pinnate mode of growth .
He named it Bacterium figurans , on account of its figured appearance upon the solid nutrient media .
We obtained it from a case of otitis media in the cat , in London .
These observations show that the organism is probably widespread .
Mode of Growth of the Bacterium.\#151 ; On gelatine it forms , under certain circumstances , a feather-like or pinnate growth upon the surface and in the gelatine , the branches of which are directed upwards at about an angle of 45 ' .
Under no circumstances ( according to our observations ) does it form a pinnate growth upon agar or potato .
Action of Gravity.\#151 ; The symmetrical pinnate growth could not be obtained in gelatine tubes which were kept horizontal or nearly so , whilst similar tubes kept vertical or nearly so exhibited the characteristic growth .
A certain scale of symmetry could be obtained by placing the tubes at various angles between the vertical and horizontal .
If a tube in which a pinnate growth had been obtained was completely reversed , a new pinnate growth might be seen to cross the first , but it was not so marked as the latter .
These observations showed that Bacterium Zopfii was markedly susceptible to position , and that the pinnate growth could only be obtained in or about the vertical .
They pointed strongly to the influence of the action of gravity .
Behaviour on the Clinostat.\#151 ; Ii the force of gravity acting upon the culture tube in the one position were prevented by slowly revolving the growth in the vertical at rates from one revolution in one minute to one in one hour , then the pinnate growth could not be obtained .
" VVe assumed , therefore , that Bacterium Zopfii was subject to the action of gravity , and that it was negatively geotropic .
But if it were 1893 .
] Upon the Action of Gravity on Bacterium Zopfii .
49 negatively geotropic , then it ought also to assume a centripetal direction if rapidly revolved .
Action of Centrifugal Force.\#151 ; We repeated Knight 's experiment , communicated to the Royal Society in 1806 , and revolved the culture tubes in the horizontal at the rate of three to five revolutions per second , and we obtained most perfect pinnate growths , similar to those obtained by growing in the vertical .
The Cause of the Pinnate Growth.\#151 ; The growth is very rarely orthogeotropic ; there is a force hindering this , which we believe to be the resistance of the gelatine .
Although the pinnate growth appears superficial , this is not so ; the filaments tend to dip slightly or deeply into the substance of the gelatine .
It is observed that where they penetrate deeply into the gelatine they are almost horizontal at the bottom of the gelatine , whilst nearly vertical at the top of the gelatine column .
These differences are still more accentuated when the tubes are centrif ugalised .
Circumstances which Favour or Retard the Symmetrical Growth .
It is essential that the gelatine be not too stiff ; if it is hard , an irregular superficial or an imperfect pinnate growth obtains .
We employ a freshly prepared 8 to 10 per cent , nutrient gelatine .
A slight variation in the reaction on the acid or alkaline side of neutrality makes no appreciable difference .
Temperature has a very important effect ; symmetrical growths are with difficulty obtained at low temperatures ; the most suitable is that between 20 C. and 21 C. Carbonic acid hinders the symmetrical growth ; oxygen favours it .
Thus , if a streak culture on gelatine is placed in an atmosphere of C02 , at the end of three days there is only a thick streak along the line of inoculation ; if the tube is then transferred to oxygen , a symmetrical growth develops in the course of twelve to twenty-four hours .
We have not yet observed any difference in the growth in the colours of the spectrum .
Not only has the hardness of the gelatine a marked effect upon the pinnate growth , but in addition the thickness of the gelatine substratum is important .
Thus , we never obtained pinnate growths in our method of plate cultures on microscope slides .
Even in Petri boxes , with a thickness of gelatine varying from \ inch to 1 inch , the growth upon the surface often tended to be irregular , but in these cases the filaments which grew deeply into the gelatine assumed the pinnate form , with the exception , as before mentioned , that the lowermost branches were more horizontal than those at the top .
Thus , to obtain a pinnate growth upon the surface , the test-tube is the best culture glass .
Microscopic Characters of the Growth.\#151 ; The organism is pleomorphic ; filamentous , bacillary , baoteroid , spiral , and coccal form phases being met with .
There is also a motile stage , in which bacillary , bacteroid , VOL. LIII .
33 50 Upon the Action of Gravity on Bacterium Zopfii .
[ Feb , 23 , and coccal forms predominate ; there appears to be an absence cf the motile spiral form .
In the motile phase there is a very slight liquefaction of the gelatine , but for the rest there is no liquefaction of the gelatine .
In addition to the differences of form of the separate elements , there appear certain phases in the grouping of the bacteria .
Thus , following Billet , we divide our growths into filamentous , disassociated , skein , and zodgleaform phases .
The filamentous form is especially met with in gelatine , and in the pinnate growths the filaments are at first very long and hyphal-like , and are rapidly growing , but segmentation follows early .
If branching occurs it appears to take place as in Gladothrix , by displacement of segments .
In the disassociated phase the segments break away from one another , and may become motile .
The skein phase is met with on hard gelatine and on agar ; it is a very superficial growth , and the filaments form dense plaits ; it is not met with in geotropic growths .
The zodgleaform phase is very characteristic , and usually rapidly follows upon the filamentous .
In the filaments and segments multiplication occurs either at scattered points in the chain or throughout its length , and the segments remain united by a common cementing substance ; the forms assumed by these aggregates are very beautiful , and are to be met with in the geotropic growths .
The Spirillation.\#151 ; The undivided or segmented filaments and the zoogleaform masses have a marked tendency to twist , especially in the pinnate gelatine cultures .
The majority of the twists are in the opposite direction of the hands of the clock .
Kurth noted the spirillation , and attributed it to the resistance of the gelatine ; but as in the higher plants , perhaps here , the action of gravity is also a factor .
This consideration also opens up the meaning of the spiral form in the bacteria .
Methods of Fixing and Staining employed.\#151 ; Our preparations , from which the micro-photos were taken were obtained from plate cultures made in the following manner:\#151 ; A micro-slide in a large sterilised test tube is coated with a thin surface of sterilised gelatine by means of a balloon pipette .
After solidification the surface is inoculated with a streak .
The growth may be examined either unstained or after fixing and staining .
To fix , the slide is withdrawn from the test-tube and placed in dilute alcohol , and then dried ; any stain can then be employed , and the preparation mounted in Canada balsam .

