VII .
" Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases."-No .
II .
Action of Bisulphide of Carbon on Triethylphosphine .
By A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received June 5 , 1858 .
Among the many characteristic reactions of the phosphorus-bases , their deportment with sulphur is so conspicuous that it has served frequently as a test for the presence of these substances .
In continuing the study of the phosphorus-bases , I have found that this remarkable attraction for sulphur is by no means limited to this element in the free state .
Many sulphur-compounds , when coming into contact with triethylphosphine , are instantaneously decomposed , their sulphur being appropriated in the formation of the beautiful bisulphide E3 PS2 , which , as has been pointed out on a former occasion , is generated by the action of free sulphur .
As an illustration , the deportment of bisulphide of nitrogen may be quoted .
This substance , obtained by the action of ammonia on chloride of sulphur , and as yet scarcely touched upon as an agent of research , is instantaneously decomposed into its constituents when acted upon by triethylphosphine , E3P + NS , = E3PS2+N .
TriethylBisulBisulphide phosphine .
phide of of triethylnitrogen .
phosphine .
The reaction is so violent that care must be taken to prevent the phosphorus-base from being inflamed .
Triethylphosphine is not less powerfully attacked by bisulphide of carbon ; but the result is different .
On mixing the two bodies in the anhydrous condition , they are found to combine with explosive violence , a deep crimson-coloured crystalline compound being produced .
This substance is obtained in better crystals if ethereal solutions , instead of the anhydrous compounds , be employed .
The new body separates in beautiful crimson leaflets the moment the two solutions are mixed .
This phenomenon is so characteristic , that ever since it was first noticed , it has served me as a valuable test for the detection of even minute traces of triethylphosphine .
A watchglass , moistened with the liquid in which the phosphorus-base is suspected , is held over a vessel containing bisulphide of carbon : the vapourof this compound immediately causes the formation of a crimson network of crystals , if the smallest quantity of triethylphosphine be present .
It is necessary that the base should be free ; its saline solutions are not affected by bisulphide of carbon ; the reaction , however , immediately appears when the base is liberated by the addition of an alkali .
The new body produced by the action of bisulphide of carbon upon triethylphosphine is insoluble in water , nearly insoluble in ether , but soluble in alcohol .
From boiling alcohol it is deposited on cooling in crimson needles , somewhat similar to the crystals of chrornic acid as obtained by the action of sulphuric acid upon bichromate of potassium .
The presence of bisulphide of carbon in the alcohol considerably increases its solvent power for the crimson body .
The new substance fuses at about 95 ?
C ; it is volatile even at the common temperature , and is easily volatilized at the temperature of boiling water .
When rapidly heated it sublimes with partial decomposition .
The crimson crystals appear to have the character of a weak base ; they easily dissolve in concentrated hydrochloric acid , a colourless liquid being formed ; from this solution potassa or ammonia reprecipitate the body , apparently unchanged , although , in consequence of the finely divided state , of a somewhat lighter colour .
The hydrochloric solution gives with bichloride of platinum a bright yellow amorphous salt insoluble in alcohol and ether , which on drying becomes dingy , with indications of decomposition .
A goldsalt similarly obtained exhibits a like deportment .
Both salts appeared but very little adapted for analysis .
The alcoholic solution of the body is decomposed by nitrate of silver with formation of sulphide of silver .
The analysis of the crimson crystals has shown that they contain C14 H-I , PS=1C 2 HI1 P+ C2 S= -E3 P+ C2 S. They are therefore formed by the direct union of I equivalent of triethylphosphine with 2 equivalents of bisulphide of carbon .
In the dry state the bisulphide of carbon compound may be preserved without being altered .
In the presence of moisture , however , it is decomposed , especially during hot weather .
On examining some specimens which had been kept during several months , the crimson colour was found to have disappeared , the substance had assumed a light yellow colour , and on opening the bottles the odour of sulphuretted hydrogen became at once apparent .
The yellowish substance on recrystallization proved to be pure bisulphide of triethylphosphine .
I leave it undecided whether this transposition had taken place according to the equation E3 P C , S , + 21O E PS2 2-IS +C , 02 , , or E , P S,4+2HO020 E3 P S , +21HS-+ C,2 What is the constitution of the crimson body ?
In mineral chemistry we are acquainted with a compound closely allied in composition and formation to the new compound .
Bisulphide of carbon , when treated with an alcoholic solution of ammonia , furnishes , together with other products , a salt crystallized in long lemon-yellow needles , which is known by the name of sulphocarbamate of ammonium .
This compound , ( H4 N ) I-I2 N , C2 S4 , when treated with diluted acids , is converted into an oily acid of but little stability , sulphocarbamic acid : H11 , N , C , S , If we replace in this compound the hydrogen by ethyl , the nitrogen by phosphorus , in other words , if we replace the ammonia by triethylphosphine , we arrive at the composition of the body which forms the subject of this note .
I have convinced myself experimentally that trimethylphosphine exhibits with bisulphide of carbon a perfectly similar deportment .
The compound formed is likewise of a crimson colour , but of a somewhat lighter tint ; it is more volatile and more readily soluble in alcohol than the corresponding ethyl-compound : it is also somewhat soluble in water .
Triethylarsin is not altered by the addition of bisulphide of carbon ; after some time , however , long needles are formed in the mixture of the two bodies .
These needles are probably an analogous arseniccompound : I have not however examined them .
A mixture of triethylstibin and bisulphide of carbon was preserved for several months , without undergoing any change .

