463 The Giant Nerve Cells and Fibres of Halla parthenopeia .
By J. H. Ashworth , D.Sc .
, Lecturer in Invertebrate Zoology in the University of Edinburgh .
( Communicated by Professor J. C. Ewart , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 30 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1908 .
) ( Abstract .
) An anterior and a posterior series of giant cells are present in Halla parthenopeia ; the following statement refers to the anterior series .
The primary giant cells are formed in segmental couples\#151 ; one couple in each of the anterior ganglia of the nerve cord\#151 ; until a maximum of eight couples is attained .
While the last three couples are being formed , secondary giant-cells are also formed at the anterior end of the nerve cord and occasionally in one or more ganglia already possessing a primary couple The number of giant cells in full-grown specimens is usually 15 to 18 , but specimens with 20 and 21 are recorded .
There is a progressive increase in the size of the primary giant cells until the worm has attained a length of 30 to 40 cm .
, by which time the giant cells appear to have reached their maximum size .
The largest cells are usually those of the second and third couples , which , in adult worms , are 130 to 150 in diameter .
Yellow granules are present in the giant ( and in some of the larger ganglion ) cells , the substance and pigment of which are closely similar to , if not identical with , those of the chlorogogen granules .
The granules in the nerve cells therefore appear to be insoluble products of metabolism .
Small , rounded , chromophilous granules are present in the protoplasm ( except in a peripheral zone , in which they are almost or quite absent ) in varying amount in different giant cells .
They are found in greatly increased mass in a specialised peri-nuclear zone , which is distinguishable in the living cell by its greater refringency .
The outer edge of this zone is bounded by the peri-nuclear network of neurofibrillse , which is thus in a position which facilitates its rapid nutrition .
In many of the cells there is a " double nucleolus " which consists of one or more acidophile bodies enveloped by a basophile substance .
Each giant fibre , after leaving the giant cell from which it arises , crosses the cord to the opposite side , turns gradually towards the middle line of the cord and runs posteriorly .
Some of the largest fibres , from two to six in different specimens , run to within 1 or 2 mm. of the posterior end of the worm , the other fibres taper and successively disappear after running various VOL. lxxx.\#151 ; b. 2 P 464 The Giant Nerve Cells and Fibres of Halla parthenopeia .
distances down the cord .
One or more short branches issue from the giant fibre near the angle of decussation , and , as the fibre runs along the dorsal side of the nerve cord , branches issue which fork , the twigs pass to the right and left , they taper , their sheath disappears , and the protoplasmic axis of each twig , now about 1 fxin diameter , is lost to view in the lateral or ventrolateral region of the neuropile , in no case could it be traced into a spinal nerve .
The sheath of the giant cell and giant fibre is not blackened by the action of osmic acid , it consists of glia fibrils of various thickness , among which glia nuclei and the granular remains of glia protoplasm are present .
The neurofibrillar network in the giant cell is divisible into a peri-nuclear network , situated at the margin of the peri-nuclear zone , and a more extensive , wider meshed , and generally more slender stranded network in the general protoplasm .
From this network slender primitive fibrils pass into the cone of origin of the axone , whence stouter fibrils ( 0'2 to 0-25 yu .
thick ) , each due to the fusion of several primitive fibrils , pass into the giant fibre .
The number of fibrilke issuing from the cell varies according to the size of the cell : 6 to 10 issue from the small giant cells , 12 to 30 from the larger ones .
The bundle of neurofibrillae probably does not fill the lumen of the fibre in life ( fibrillie could not be seen in the living or fresh giant fibres ) , but occupies from one-fourth to three-fourths of the internal diameter of the fibre , the remaining space being filled with the semi-fluid , finely-granular " peri-fibrillar substance .
" Between the fibrils there is a more homogeneous " inter-fibrillar substance .
" The fibrilke in a giant fibre are usually all of the same thickness , but in several fibres there are one to three fibrils thicker than the rest .
The contents of the giant fibre are equivalent , and have a similar structure , to the axis cylinder of a medullated nerve , except that in the former there is nothing comparable to the Banvier 's nodes of the latter .
The anterior giant cells of Aglauridesfulgida are also segmentally arranged , there being a couple in each of the first lour , five , or six segments .
The cells seem to have attained their maximum diameter ( 90 ya)when the worm has reached a length of 14 cm .
In the main features of their structure and of the arrangement of their neurofibrillar network the giant cells of Aglaurides agree with those of Halla .
Sharply and deeply stained fibrils penetrate the sheath of many of the giant cells of Halla and Aglaurides , enter the cell and apparently join the intracellular network .
Numerous short fibrils , probably of glial nature , enter the peripheral zone of the giant cells of Halla .

