A further Account of the extraordinary Effects of the same Lightning at Wakefield .
By Dr. Cookson .
Communicated by the same .
THIS Storm of Thunder and Lightning happened the latter End of July , 1731 .
and not only broke the Glass and Iron Frames of the CrossChamber Windows , but at the same time split some Studds in the Corner of a Wood-House ; and passing into a Room , split likewise a large Deal Box , which stood in the South Corner of the Room , where the Lightning entered , and dispersed a great many Dozen of Knives and Forks , which were put up in the Box , all over the Room .
Upon gathering up these Knives and Forks , some of them were melted , others snapped in sunder ; others had their Hafts burnt ; others their Sheaths either singed or burnt ; others not : But what was most remarkable , upon laying them on a Counter where there were Iron Nails , Rings , &amp;c. it was observed , that when any of them were taken up , there hung a Nail or Ring at the End of each of them : most of them were tried , and found to do the same ; but little further Notice being taken of them at that Time , they were thrown aside as damaged Goods .
Some Discourse concerning the Effects of Thunder and Lightning happening to be the Subject of Conversion in a Company , where the Owner of these Knives was not long ago , he told them what had happened at his House , and particularly to the Knives and Forks ; and being asked whether he had any of them left , said that he had ; and upon trial it was found that a good many of them were possessed of this magnetic Virtue .
Hearing of this , I went and found what was related , and what I sent you an Account of before , to be Fact , and have now sent you a couple of Knives and Forks , one for yourself , another for the Royal Society .
The Whittle-Knife , with the Box-Handle , is that which I would have you present to the Society ; it is an excellent one , and one of the best : I had thought to have kept it myself ; but if it will be acceptable to that famous Body , it will be much more agreeable to me .
They will perceive that it has been used pretty much ; and the Owner 's Son , who gave it to me , told me , that he has made use of it for almost a Year and an half to all manner of Purposes ; notwithstanding which it still retains the magnetic Virtue to an extraordinary Degree .
The Situation of the Room , Position of the Box and Knives , and Direction of the Lightning , may possibly contribute to a fuller Idea of the Matter : I shall therefore presume to give a Plan of them , an Horizontal one , and submit it and the following Quaeries to the Consideration of that Learned Body .
North ~ South-East Side .
D. South-West Side .
A. B. A. The South Angle of the Room where the Lightning entered .
B. The Direction of the Lightning .
C. The Polar or Magnetic Line .
D. The Box with the Knives lying in a Direction parallel to the longer Sides of the Box .
Quaere , Whether the Knives and Forks lying in such a Direction as either to coincide , or make but an acute Angle with the magnetic Line , might any ways contribute to their imbibing this magnetic Virtue ; since a Bar of Iron placed in such a Direction , shall in a small time receive a transient Polarity ; and if it ~a long time in that Position , a fixed and permanent one ?
Quaere , Whether the Knives and Forks lying in such a Position , and being violently heated by the Lightning , might not , as they cooled , strongly imbibe this magnetic Virtue ; since a Bar of Iron heated and placed in a certain Direction to cool , will sooner imbibe this Power than in the same Direction cold ?
Quaere , The Polarity of the Compass has been altered by Lightning , as it is to be seen in the Philosophical Transactions : Now how should Lightning be capable of communicating such a Power in this Case , since it is plain that it has taken it away in another ?
FINI S. LONDO N : Printed by W. INNYS and R. MANBY , Printers to the Royal Society , at the West End of St. Paul 's .

