1903 .
] Spectrum of the Spontaneous Radiation of Radium .
409 " Further Observations on the Spectrum of the Spontaneous Luminous Radiation of Radium at Ordinary Temperatures .
" By Sir William Huggins , K.C.B. , O.M. , D.C.L. , Pres. R.S. , and Lady Huggins , Hon. Mem. R.A.S. Received October 29 , 1903 .
[ PlATB 19 .
] In the plate accompanying our paper on the spectrum of the glow of radium bromide , * at least seven lines are seen to agree , both in position and in intensity , with corresponding lines in the band spectrum of nitrogen .
We called attention to other lines , of which some traces may be detected on the plate , and we suggested that with a longer exposure a more complete spectrum would be obtained .
One strong line in the radium bromide glow spectrum , about 3914 , has no similar line corresponding to it in the band spectrum of nitrogen as given on the plate .
We have since taken photographs , with longer exposures , of two specimens of radium bromide , one prepared by Buchler and Co. , and the other received from the Societe Centrale de Produits Chimiques .
In these photographs , lines only faintly glimpsed in our earlier photographs can be seen distinctly .
A photograph taken of the French radium bromide with an exposure of 216 hours , is reproduced on the accompanying plate .
The coincidence of the spectrum with the band spectrum of nitrogen is shown to be even more complete by the presence of a faint trace of the next more refrangible band , beginning at 2976*7 .
In addition , some of the fainter single lines of the nitrogen spectrum now come out in the radium bromide spectrum .
At the same time that the coincidence down to minuter details with the nitrogen band spectrum is brought out , the strong outstanding line , about 3914 , is now seen to be accompanied by a second , but less intense , outstanding line at about 4280 ; neither of which is present in the ordinary band spectrum of nitrogen , which was the one reproduced on the plate of our first paper .
This nitrogen band spectrum is the one distinguished by Deslandres as that of the positive pole , but it appears at all parts of a vacuum tube , and is also produced when a suitable induction coil discharge , without capacity , is taken across air at the ordinary density .
The nitrogen spectrum that was measured by Ames was taken by using an end-on vacuum tube closed with a quartz plate ; in his list no lines are given at the places of the two outstanding lines in the glow spectrum .
When , however , the spectrum is taken of the aureole about the # ' Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' vol. 72 , p. 196 .
410 Sir W. and Lady Huggins .
On Spectrum [ Oct. 29 , negative pole of a vacuum tube containing a residuum of atmospheric air , the ordinary , or positive-pole spectrum becomes enriched by a new spectrum of bands ; and in this additional spectrum the heads of the two strongest bands in the photographic region , occur at the positions of the two outstanding lines of the radium glow spectrum.* On the plate are given , below the more complete radium spectrum now obtained , the ordinary band spectrum of nitrogen , and also the same spectrum enriched with the bands peculiar to the aureole of the negative pole .
This latter spectrum corresponds to that of the radium glow .
The peculiar conditions , whatever they may be , which determine the presence of these additional negative-pole bands must find their counterpart in the nitrogen molecules when under stimulation by the radium bromide .
The additional bands which show themselves in the spectrum of nitrogen when taken from the glow at the negative pole of a vacuum tube are usually believed to be associated with the stimulation of the very rapidly moving corpuscles of the cathode stream .
Accordingly the presence of these negative-pole bands in the spectrum of nitrogen when excited by radium , naturally suggests whether the / 3 rays , which are analogous to the cathode corpuscles , may not be mainly operative in exciting the radium glow .
On this surmise it would be reasonable to expect some little extension of the glow outside the radium itself .
We are unable to detect any halo of luminosity outside the limit of the solid radium bromide ; the glow appears to end with sudden abruptness at the boundary surface of the radium .
It may be that it is only at molecular distances , and at the moment of their formation , that the rays can excite the nitrogen molecules .
As the glow spectrum is produced by the influence of the radium on nitrogen at the atmospheric pressure , it seemed to be of interest to find out whether the negative-pole spectrum could be obtained in air at the ordinary pressure .
It has already been stated that when a suitable discharge of an induction coil , without capacity in the circuit , is taken between electrodes in air , the ordinary band spectrum of nitrogen appears .
Separate photographs , therefore , were taken of the parts of the discharge in the close neighbourhood of the two electrodes , which were about three-eighths of an inch apart .
The bands peculiar to the negative pole of a vacuum tube were found upon the plate taken of the negative electrode .
* Deslandres* measures , reduced to Rowland 's scale , of the heads of these two bands are 3914 4 and 4279*6 ( ' Theses , ' 1888 , G-authier-Villars , and * Oomptes Rendus , ' yol .
101 , p. 1256 ) .
Angstrom and Thalen give 4281*6 for the less refrangible band ( 'Nova Acta Upsal ' ( 3 ) , vol. 9 , 1875 ) .
Hasselberg 's measure for the head of the less refrangible band is 4378*6 ( ' Mem. de l'Acad .
St. Petersb .
, ' vol. 32 , No- .
15 ) .
Percival Lewis on " Some new Fluorescence and Afterglow Phenomena in Vacuum Tubes containing Nitrogen " ( 'Astroph .
Journ. , ' vol. 12 , p. 8 ) found fluorescent nitrogen to give a band spectrum ; and , in some conditions of the fluorescence , the most intense bands were those of wave-lengths 3576*9 and 3371*2 .
1903 .
] of the Spontaneous Rad of Radium .
411 As the radium glow consists of light from nitrogen molecules stimulated into luminosity by the presence of the more active radium molecules , it was reasonable to suppose that the bromine molecules , chemically associated with the latter , might also be sufficiently stimulated to reveal their presence by the lines in the spectrum peculiar to them .
Photographs were accordingly taken of the poles of a vacuum tube containing traces of atmospheric air together with bromine vapour .
The band spectrum of nitrogen appeared alone upon the plates when no capacity was introduced ; but with the intercalation of a jar , the lines of bromine came out in the photographs , in addition to the lines of air .
The experiment was then repeated at atmospheric pressure by enclosing platinum electrodes in a glass bulb communicating with the atmosphere by a narrow tube .
Photographs of the coil discharge taken between them revealed the ordinary band spectrum of nitrogen .
A few drops of bromine were then introduced into the bulb , filling it with bromine vapour .
Photographs were again taken of the discharge in the air now heavily laden with bromine , but the spectrum remained precisely the same as before the bromine was introduced , namely , that of nitrogen only .
We find in this experiment possibly a sufficient reason for the absence of any of the lines of bromine in the glow spectrum : it may be that stimulation from the active radium molecules affects preferentially the nitrogen molecule , so that this molecule can be shaken into luminosity by a stimulation which is insufficient to excite the bromine molecule to a comparable extent .
The experiment then suggested itself whether under similar conditions of discharge , radium itself , when placed upon the electrodes , would be able to show its presence by its characteristic lines in the spectrum of the discharge taken between them .
The result was negative , as in the case of bromine , no lines other than those of nitrogen appearing upon the plate .
A small jar was then put into the circuit and another photograph taken , when the complete spectrum of radium came out strongly , but without the band spectrum of nitrogen .
If , as suggested by Rutherford , the a rays are connected with helium , the experiment seemed worth making of taking a photograph of the spectrum arising from their bombardment upon a zinc sulphide screen .
It seemed possible , though not very probable , that the encounters of these bodies , at the enormous speed at which they travel , with the molecules of air , and their final collision with the screen , might on that hypothesis give rise to some of the radiations peculiar to helium and so produce its spectrum on the plate .
Fortunately the strong continuous spectrum due to the fluorescence of the screen ends abruptly in the violet a little before the place , at 3889 , of the strongest line of helium in the photographic region , and so leaves the spectrum quite free for the detection of this line , even if it were only faintly present .
The result 412 Spectrum of the Spontaneous Radiation of Radium .
[ Oct. 29 , of the experiment , so far as concerns helium , was negative ; which must not of course be interpreted as excluding the presence of helium , but only as showing that , if present , the conditions are not favourable to the appearance of its spectrum.* On the first photograph that was .
taken , the two strongest lines of the nitrogen band spectrum were faintly seen , but a photograph with a new screen and a longer exposure showed no trace of the nitrogen bands .
In the first case it might be , that some very minute particles of radium bromide had attached themselves to the screen , and by their independent glow had given rise to the lines of nitrogen which were on the photographic plate .
About 1 centigramme of French radium bromide , which was in the form of small particles , was put into a very small glass tube scarcely larger than was necessary to contain it .
The tube was securely closed and left for 2 months .
As the a rays , being unable to escape , would probably occupy the interstices between the radium bromide particles , it seemed desirable to examine whether as helium , or still in some precedent condition , they would show their presence in the glow spectrum .
The tube was exposed , immediately in front of the slit , for 168 hours .
The spectrum shows a strong continuous spectrum from the fluorescence of the glass , and faintly the bands of nitrogen , but no other lines with certainty .
We intend to photograph again the spectrum of the glow from this tube , after a longer time has passed for an accumulation of the a rays , and of the gas-like emanation .
When the radium bromide is covered with a plate of quartz , the continuous spectrum , due to the fluorescence of the quartz , is not only strong , but extends a long way into the ultra-violet .
It can be traced on the photograph as far as 2500 .
After a few hours the quartz darkens under the action of the radium bromide , the brown stain extending through the complete substance of a plate one-tenth of an inch in thickness .
The stain is due probably to the reduction of silicon .
Experiments were made in the hope of throwing light upon the shift found in the photograph of the radium glow spectrum , reproduced on the plate of our first paper .
As subsequent photographs of this spectrum were entirely free from any trace of shift , the shift found on the first plate must have been accidental .
Repeated photo- * M. Henri Becquerel has quite recently investigated the scintillation observed on a phosphorescent screen when excited by radium .
He comes to the conclusion ( 1 ) " Ce sont les rayons a qui provoquent la phosphorescence sointillante ; ( 2 ) " Ces faits etablissent sinon une demonstration , du moins une grande pr6-somption en favour de 1'hypothSse qui attribuerait la scintillation a des clivages provoques irregulierement sur l'ecran cristallin par Faction continue plus ou moins prolongee des rayons a. " ( 'Oomptes Eendus , ' vol. 137 , pp. 633 , 634 j October 27,1903 .
) jSpectra \#169 ; \#163 ; Radium Bromide and op Nitrogen I Radium Bromide : Glow Spectrum \#169 ; Z Nitrogen .
: Negative Band Spectrum \#169 ; 5 Nitrogen .
: Rosciiye Band .
Spectrum .
\#169 ; b ? ?
\#187 ; O \#163 ; *2 o 1903 .
] Correction to Paper by Sir Crookes .
413 graphs , taken with the spectroscope in different positions , failed to show the smallest trace of shift from flexure .
The only suggestion we can make in explanation is that the piece of solid radium bromide accidentally shifted in its cell , so as no longer to be directly under the slit , and in consequence the collimator lens was not wholly filled with light .
The results of the experiments described in this paper would appear to show generally , if analogy with electric stimulation may be assumed , that the radium stimulation , whether we take the operative cause to lie in the / 3 rays , or in the encounters of nitrogen molecules with the active molectdes of radium\#151 ; by which , for the first time , a spectrum of bright bands in the ultra-violet region has been obtained at ordinary temperatures , and without the intervention of an electric discharge\#151 ; from the very circumstance of its being of such a nature as to give rise to the band spectrum of nitrogen , is not of a kind which can elicit from either the molecules of bromine , or of radium their characteristic line spectra .
The question suggests itself whether or not the same inability may hold in respect of the helium molecule , which is easily stimulated by an electric discharge ; we have not as yet made experiments on this point .
" Correction to Paper ' On the Spectrum of Radium .
' " By Sir W. Crookes , F.R.S. Received November 9 , 1903 .
The faint line 3961'624 , described* as a radium line , is due to aluminium , being one of the strongest lines in the A1 spectrum .
Its wave-length , recently measured on a special aluminium photograph , shows the identity ; moreover , with a pure salt of radium it is found to be absent .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' this -volume , p. 300 .

