]\gt ; 304 Prof. J. C. Maxwell on Stresses in Rarefied [ Apr. 11 , the body must experience during Alpine asceIlsions .
Professor Planta- .
mour , of Geneva , *from observations made at Geneva and the Great Sb .
nard , concludes that there is no marked difference between the hygrometric states at various altitudes .
According , however , to Dr. Lombard , who has considerable knowledge and experlence of climate , the air appears to be , as a rule , much drier above 1,500 metres than below that altitude .
III .
" " On Stresses in Rarefied Gases arising from Inequalities of Temperature By J. CLERK MAXWELL , F.B.S. , Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received March 19 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
In this paper I have followed the method given in my paper " " the Dynamical Theory of Gases\ldquo ; ( Phil. Trans. , 1867 , p. 49 ) .
I have shown that when inequalities of temperature exist in a gas , the pressure at a given point is not the same in all directions , and that the difference between the maximum and the minimum prsssure at may be of considerable magnitude when the density of the gas is small enough , when the inequalities of temperature are produced by small solid bodies at a higher or lower temperature than the vessel containing the gas .
2 .
The nature of this stress may be thus defined : let the distance from the given point , measured in a given direction , be denoted by , and the absolute temperature by ; then the space-variation of the temperature for a point moving along this lin will be denoted by , and the space-variation of this quantity along the same line by There is in general a particular direction of the line , for which is amaximum , another for which it is aminimum , and athird for which it is a maximum-minimum .
These three directions are at right angles to each other , and are the axes of principal stress at the given point ; and the part of the stress arising from inequalities of temperature is in each of these principal axes a pressure equal to\mdash ; where is the coefficient of viscosity , the density , and the absolute temperature .
3 .
Now , for dry air at C. , in centimetre-gramme * Lombard .
" " Climat des Montagnes 1873 .
1878 .
] arising from Inequalities of ) erature .
second measure , and , where is the pressure , tho unit of pressure being one dine per square centimetre , or nearly onemillionth of an atmosphere .
If a sphere of one centimetre in diameter is degrees centigrade hotter than the air at a distance from it , then , when the flow of heat has become steady , the temperature at a distance of !
centimetres will be , and Hence , at a distance of one centimetre from the centre of the sphcre , the in the direction of the radius arising from inequality of temperature will be dynes per square centimetre .
4 .
In Mr. Crookes ' experiments the pressure , , was often so small that this stress would be capable , if it existed alone , of cing ) .
rapid motion in small masses .
Indeed , if we were to considel .
only the normal part of the stress exerted on solid bodies immersed in the gas , most of the observed by Mr. Crookes could be readily explained .
5 .
Let us take the case of two small bodies symmetrical with respect to the axis joining their centres of figure .
If both bodies are warmer thttn the air at a distance from them , then in any section perpendicular to the axis joining their ce1ltres , the point where it cuts this line will have the highest temperature , and there will be a flow of heat outwards from this axis in all directions .
Hence will be positive for the axis , and it will be a line of maximum pressure , so that the bodies will repel each other .
If both bodies are colder than the air at a distance , will be reversed ; the axis will be a line of minimum pressure , and the bodies will attract each other .
If one body is hotter , and the other colder , than air at a distance , the effect will be smaller ; and it will depend the of bodies , and on their exact temperatures , whether the action is attractive or repulsive .
6 .
If the bodies are two parallel disks , very near to each other , the central parts will produce very little effect , between the temperature varies and .
Only near the edges there be any stress arising from inequality of tcmperature in craH .
7 .
If the bodies are encircled by a ring its axis in limc joining bodies , then the repulsion between the two bodies , wheIl 306 Prof. J. C. Maxwell on Stresses in Rarefied ( -\amp ; reheck ; ases [ Apr. 11 , they are warmer than the air in general , may be converted into attrac .
tion by heating the ring , so as to produce a flow of heat inwards towards the axis .
8 .
If a body in the form of a cup or bowl is warmer than the air , the distribution of temperature in the surrounding gas is similar to the distribution of electric potential near a body of the same form , which has been investigated by Sir W. Thomson .
* Near the convex surface the value of \mdash ; nearly the same as if the body had been a complete here , namely , where is the excess of temperature , and , is the radius of tlJe sphere .
Near the concave snrface the variation of tomperature is exceedingly small .
Hence the normal pressure on the convex surface will be greater than on the concave surface , as Mr. Crookes has shown by the of his radiometers .
Since the expressions for the stress are linear as regards the temperature , everything will be reversed when the cup is colder than the burrounding air .
9 .
In a spherical vessel , if the two polar ions are made hotter than the equatorial zone , the pressure in the direction of the axis will be greatsr than that parallel to the plane , and the reverse will be the case if the polar regions are made colder than the equatorial zone .
10 .
All such explanations of the observed phenomena must be subjected to careful criticism .
They have been obtained by considering normal stresses alone , to the excIusion of tlJe tangential stresses ; and it is much easier to give an elementary exposition of the former than of the latter .
If , however , we go on to calculate the forces acting on any portion of the gas in virtue of the stresses on its surface , we find that when the ow of heat is steady , these forces are in equilibrium .
Mr. Crookes tells us that there is no molar current , or wind , in his radiometer vessels .
It may not be easy to prove this by experiment , but it is satisfactory to find that the system of stresses here described as arising from inequalities of temperature will not , when the flow of heat is steady , generate currents .
11 .
Consider , then , the case in which there are no currents of gas , but a steady flow of heat , the condition of which is ( In the absence of external forces , such as gTavity , and if the gas in ntact with solid bodies does not slide over them , this is always a solution of the equations , and it is the only permanent solution .
) In *Reprint of Papers on Electroslatics , p. 178 .
1878 .
] arising from equalities of Temperature .
this case the equations of motion show that every particle of the gas is in equilibrium under the stresses acting on it .
Hence any finite portion of the gas is also in equilibrium ; also , since the stresses are functions of temperature , if we superpose one system of temperatures on another , we also superpose the corresponding ems of forces .
Now the system of temperatures due to a solid sphere of uniform temperature , immersed in the gas , cannot of itself give rise to any force tending to move the sphere in one direction rather than in another .
Let the sphere be placed within the finite portion of gas which , as we have said , is already in equilibrium .
The equilibrium will not be disturbed .
We may introduce any 1lumber of spheres at different temperatures into the portion of , and when the flow of heat has become steady the whole system will be in equilibrium .
12 .
How , then , are we to account for the observed fact that forces act between solid bodies immel.sed in rarefied gases , and this , apparently , as long as inequalities of temperature are maintained i ) I think we must look for an explanation in the fact discovered in the case of liquids by Helmholtz and Piotrowski , for ases by Kundt and Warburg , that the fluid in contact with the surface of a must slide over it with a finite velocity in order to produce a tinite tangential stress .
The theoretical treatment of the boundary collditions between a gas and a solid is difficult , and it becomes more diffictllt if we consider that the gas close to the surface is probably in an unknown state of condensation .
We shall , therefore , accept the resuIts obtained by Kundt and on their experimental evidence .
They have found that the velocity of sliding of the gas over the surface due to a given tangential stress varies inversely as the pressnre The coefficient of sliding for air on glass was found to be centimetres , where is the pressure in millionths of an atmosphere .
Hence at ordinary pressures is insensible , but in the vessels exhausted by Mr. Crookes it may be considerable .
Hence if close to the surface of a solid thore is a tangential stress , acting on a surface parallel to that of the body , in a direction , to that lrface , there will also be a .
of the gas in colltact with the solid over its surface in the direction , with a velocity 13 .
I have not attempted to enter on the calculntion of the effect of this sliding motion , but it is easy to see that if we with the case io which there is no sliding , the effect of permission being given to the gas to slide must be in the first place to diminish the aotion of * Wiener Sitzb .
, xl lS60 ) , p. 607 .
Aull .
, , p. 337 .
308 On the Existence oj Carbon in Sun 's A tmosphere .
[ Apr. 11 , all tangential stresses on the surface without affecting the normal stresses ; and , in the second place to set up currents sweeping over the surfaces of solid bodies , thus completely destroying the simplicity of our first solution of the problem .
14 .
When external forces , such as gravity , act on the gas , and when the thermal phenomena produce differences of density in different parts of the vessel , then the well-known convection currents are set up .
These also interfere with the simplicity of the problem and intro- duce very complicated effects .
All that we know is that the rarer the gas and the smaller the vessel , the less is the velocity of the convection currents ; so that in Mr. Crookes ' experiments they play a very small part .
IV .
" " Note on the Existence of Carbon in the Coronal Atmosphere of the By J. N. LocKYl ] , F.R.S. Received March 20 , 1878 .
It is now four years since I obtained evidence , which seemed to mc conclusive , as to the existence of carbon in the sun 's atnlosphere .
There were two points , however , which remained to be settled before the matter could be considered to be placed beyond all doubt .
The first was to establish that the fluted bands generally present in the spectrum of the arc , as photographed , which bands vary very considerably in strength according to the ] atility of the metal under experiment , were really bands of carbon\mdash ; a point denied by ngstrom and Thalen .
This point is settled by the photographs submitted to the Society with this communication .
In these the carbon bands remain the same , though one spectrum is that of carbon in air , the other of carbon in dried with great care , and the proof { hat it cannot be the spectrum of a combination of carbon with oxygen lies in the fact that in the chlorine it is more brilliant than in the oxygen .
Now , assuming the chlorine to have been but imperfectly dried , this would not have happened if a compound of oxygen had been in question .
The next point was to obtain evidence that there was absolutely no shift in the carbon bands , which sometimes when the part of the arc photographed is not perfectly in the prolongation of the axis of the collimator .
A photograph has been obtained which supplies such evidence .
There are metallic lines close to the carbon bands , which are prolongations of Fraunhofer lines , while the lines which I have already mapped at W. L. , and , in the spectrum of iron , are also absolute )rolongations .
Therefore there is no shift in the carbon flutings .
Now the individual lines in the brightest portion of the

