]\gt ; 1893 .
] On th TVhirling and of Shafts .
We are now able to pass from any particular redundant eneritting unction to an equivalent generating ction which involves undetermined quantities .
Assuming these quantities at pleasure , we obtain a number of different ebraic products , each of which may have its own mealling in ithmetic , and thus the number of arithmetical correspondences obtainable is subject to no tinite limit .
This portion of the theoly is given at in the paper , with illustrative examples .
interesting results are obtsined iu the fields of special and determinant theory .
The special erminant , which itself for exanlination , tel.med " " inversely is that the constituents sylmetrically placed in respect to the ) cipal axis have , each pair , a product unity , whilst the constituents 011 axis itself of equal to unity .
The determinaut possesses many which are of importanco to the principal investigation of the theorems conce ] ning the determinant are connected entirely with the -axial I tind that the general determinanb of even order , greater than two , is expl.essible in precisely two ways as an irrational function of its -axial minols , no determinant of uneven order is so expresible at all .
Of order superior to 3 , it is not possible to assume rary values for the determinant itself and all of ils -axial of the assumccL mtlst satisfy conditions , , these conditiolts .
satisfied , the detcrminant coustructed fo antitieS . .
' On the and ) of \ldquo ; By by It is well ] { a 1 articular speed bends , and , } amount of defleetion bo , might } ) tho or " " \ldquo ; depellds } tl is and modulus ci itions , ally ] Mr Stanley DunJcerley .
[ Nov. 23 , The theory for the case of an unloaded shaft first received attention at the hands of Rankine , ) obfained numericaI formulae cases of a shaft resting freely on bearing at each end , and for overhanging shaft fixed in direction at one end .
theory has been furbher extended to the case of a sLaft loaded ith pulleys by Professor Reynolds ; and the object of this investigotion is to ] that theory and so obtain formulae\mdash ; and by experiment to verify the critical speed in terms of the diameter of the shaft , weights of pulleys , \amp ; c. , in particular caseh applicable to the different conditions under a shaft works .
In many cases , as might ally be expected , the " " period of \ldquo ; of the shafb is mercly its natnral period of vibration .
pericds are coincident in the case of an unloaded shaft ( howeve hupported ) , and for a loaded shaft on which the pulleys are placed positions that they rotate , when the shaft is , in planes perpendicular to the original meant of .
With pulleys in there positions , the shaft is whirling , there is hting moment tending to shaft which does not exist when it merely vibrates under the dead weight of the pulleys .
, in an unloaded shaft , the period of whirl coincides with the natural period of vibl'ation ; but , generally , in a loaded shaft , } of whirl is less than the natul.al period of vibration to an extent depending on the size and positions of the pulleys .
If , therefore , the period of disturbance that period of on revolution ) be decreased , the shaft runs true until th approximates to the natural period of vibration of the shaft under the .
conditions .
If the shaft now receive any displacement , slight , a violent agitation is set up , which will be most arked the period of disturbance and the period the period of disturbance is further decreased , the becomes less and , at a perlod of disturbance slightly less than the irling P of the shaft , the shaft again runs true .
As in the ation of rods , so in the whirling of shafts , there art1 series of periods at which whirIs .
Tnvestigatiou shows the formulae obtained by ined e of the sha ) ' one pulley , or the combined effects of two pulleys the effect of the shalt , too com1 icnted\mdash ; even in the simplcst \mdash ; for use .
The on native m is to conbider the effects of the shaft and each of pulleys position , size ) scparft } ) , the speed for ssun ) ption t are .
By means of nlula , thr and ] be speeds of ineY ) -j 1893 .
] On Whirlimg Vibration of Shafts .
the case of an unloaded , the speed is given by equation of form .
( 1 ) , in which of shaft in lbs. per foot run , ravity , 's NIodulus ( in lbs. .
sq .
ft I eometrical moment of inertia of cross section of bout a diameter , ular }-elocity of shaft when length in feet of one of the spans , and some numerical coefficient depetlding on the in which the shaft is By substituting the proper for the coefficients in Lquation ( 1 ) , the equations solid ( 2 ) , and , for a shaft . . . . . .
In these equations number of revolutions shaft makes , per minute , when whirling , '7diameter of the solid in inches , the external and internal diameters of the both in inches , and some cocfficient depellding , and also upon the constants iu .
iron or ] steel , brass , It should be noticed tLat each span of a continuous shnft suppol.ted on ings tCed at equal distances apart whirls indepelldelltly of the rest .
Looded Shafls.\mdash ; The for a loaded shaft\mdash ; as also ullloaded one\mdash ; which been considered in the investi , tion , embrace all those which are lik to arise in .
With coninuollS shaft snpported 011 three or more and with a pulley on one of the spans , general equations have been obtained nnequal hpans , but the complete cstigation has only beeu extended to he case of equal spans\mdash ; a reltttion between spans which almost invariably exists in actual shafting .
The results of the ation show however the shaft be suppol.tod , the whirling speed due to a single pulley 011 a ) light shafb is by of the form .
( 4 ) , .
Stamley Dunkerley .
[ Nov. 23 , in which , Fi , I have the same meanings as in Equation ( 1 ) , and weight of pulley in lbs. ; distance of pulley from nearest bearing in feet ; and some numerical coefficient depending not only upon the manner in hich the shaft is supported , but also upon the position of the pulley on the span which carries if and the size of the pulley .
any partitjular mode of support of the shaft the coefficient is some function of the ratios and , where length of span which carries the , and where A and are the moments of inertia of the pulley about the axis of the shaft and a diameter of the pulley through its centre of gravity respectively , both being expressed in units .
Assuming , therefore , certain values for and , tables have been drawn up iving the corresponding values of .
For each value of there are limiting values of , infinity and zero\mdash ; the corresponding values of zero .
When the pulley may be considered as a dead weight , so that " " inferior period of whirl as it has been termed , is the natural period of vibration of the light shaft under the given conditions .
" " superior period of whirl that is to say , the whirling period when is the inferiol period multiplied by some function of , and the shaft to 11 hirl at a speed corresponding to the } ) inferior limit , it 11 ould do so in such a manner that the pulley stilll.otated in a erpendicular to the original ment of the shaft .
These alues of the speed , below and above which whirling is impossible , have been calculated in each case .
Investigation shows that in a uous light shaft supported placed at equal distances apart , the increase the speed due to those spans which are not immediately adjacent to the loaded one , on either side , canno6 exceed by above 2 or 3 per cent. the whirling speed when only the loaded span the spans immediately adjacent to it are taken into account .
In other words , the stiffening effects of only those spans imlI ) ediately ffijacent to the loaded one , on either side , need be taken into accoullt in the whirling speed for the By snbstituting the values for the c in Fquation ( 4 ) we obtain the equations , for a solid shaft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 5 ) , and , for a shaft . . . . . .
, where have the same values as befo ] , and is some numerical coefficient on the value of and of the constants in Equation ( 4 ) .
1893 .
] On and Vibration of Shafts .
The value of for wrought-iron or mild steel is , and for brass Having thus obtained giving the whirling speed due to each cause , on the assumption that all the othel 's are neglected , it only remains to find an empirical formula giving resulting whirling speed , when all the disturbing elements are taken into account , in terms of the rately cated whirling speeds dne to the several causes .
Since the whirling speed in every case aries inversely as the square root of the weight of the pulley ( see Equation 4 ) , the formuJa for the resulting speed was taken to be of the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 7 ) ' two bing elements whose whirling speeds taken are ; or of .
( S ) for elements whose speeds , taken ately , .
The may be extended to any nulllbel ' of disturbing elements .
It is not accurate , for in addition to the whirling speed ersely as the square root of the we-ight of the pulley , it also varies as some function of the distance of the pulley from the nearest and of the size of the pulley .
experiments , ever , justify to a remftrkable the asions thttve been made the speed .
In ilculabing the Qpeed at which a continuous shaft diamcte ] , supported on beal.ings at equal nces apart , with pulleys on any all of the spans , lvill whirl , the method to dopt is to , , find the s will have the ( th ) is to the spall which heavicst most aced pulleys \ldquo ; and then to sidcl .
hpan the spans imnlcdi tcly acent on eithcr sicle .
Th speeds the shaft each of the pulle3 the spans hnve then to be calculated ccordiug to the ulch 1 in eftch case .
The for an } on two bide spans will , of course , be as side spall is an mediate span in the line of found the hirling speed due to each catlsG , the speed found from an equation of the same fol'th as quation or exacl tion d. on the number of he spced thus obtained will be htly less than the ctual ing spced .
A nearer to the actual speed might be obtained by considerin .
only which lie near the ltres , or the of the side spans and the of the middle span , llegccting tho effect of those lcys which lie beyond Prof. Charlotte A. Scott .
On Plane Cubics .
[ Nov. 23 , the centres of the side spans .
In doing so , however , the experiments that there is a danger of the calculated speed xceeding the actual , whilst by taking all the pulleys on the two side spans into account the calculated speed will be slightly less than the actual peed .
If the spans of a continuous shaft , supported on placed at equal distances apal.t , are all loaded in the same manner , each whirls independently of the rest , and the problem reduces to that of a loaded supported on bearings at the ends .
The apparatus by which the calculated results have been , for the most part , verified is shown in a figure .
The experimental shaft was 2 in .
long and in .
diameter .
The motion was transmitted from the headstock spindle to the shaft by fine piece of steel wire ( about in .
long and B.W.G. diam so that the shaft subjected to very little constraint at the end .
experimental pulleys wsre models of pulleys\mdash ; being defor both and inertia .
The hcadstock spindle was iven from a turbine , the constancy of the speed shown by the sleadiness of a column of liquid forced by a centrifugal fan indicator up a glass tube .
In taking the number of revolutions corresponding to any period of an ordinary counter pushed into the end of the headstock spiudlc was used .
In making any experiment three trials made ( each of three minutes ' duration ) and the mean of the results taken .
Over 150 experiments have been made with this apparatus , and the observed results inval.iably approximate very closely to the calcuIated results .
Experiments also been made with actual cases of shafting , and it would appear that , foJlowing the method of solution sketched above , the calculated speed is about : : or 4 per cent. less than the speed .
The experiments were carried out in the Whitworth aboratory , the Owens leg , Ianchester .
On Cubics By CHARLOTTE ANGAS SCOTT , D.Sc .
( Lond. ) , of Mathematics at Blyn College , Penllsylval .
Communicated by A. R. FORSYTH , Sc. D. , F.R. .
Received Scptembe 1893 .
In this paper the first few sections are devoted to uctions f the cubic , ibs Hessian , and its Cayleyan .
Asunning three collinear lexions for the cubic , and the tangents at these points , i.e. , eight conditions , one more determlnes the ubic , and , consequently , also the Hessian and Cayleyan .

