A paper was also read entitled , " Some Account of theHurricane of the 7th of January , 1839 , as it was experienced in the neighbourhood of Dumfries , " in a letter addressed to P. M. Roget , M.D. Se ?
cretary to the Royal Society .
By P. Garden , Esq. Communicated by Dr. Roget .
After describing the position of his house , and the nature of the instruments employed for observation , the writer gives his observations of the barometer and thermometer on the 6th and 7th of Ja ?
nuary last , and proceeds to state , that on the 6th , at about ten minutes past ten o'clock p.m. violent squalls commenced , at first with intermissions of perfect calms , but gradually becoming more frequent , and being accompanied by the sound of strong and in ?
creasing whirlwinds .
By eleven o'clock the wind was observed to proceed from the East , and its velocity was estimated at forty miles an hour .
Its violence then increased , and threatened to blow down the chimneys .
At midnight it abated , at the same time shifting to the south or west .
At two o'clock in the morning nearly two tons of lead were torn away by the wind from the west end platform on .
the house-top , and thrown down behind the house in a westerly direction .
Some of the lower windows having been left a little open , the wind thus admitted into the house forced up and blew off the very heavy hatch-door of the roof , which was covered with lead .
The whole house rocked terribly , and even the stone floor of the half-sunk kitchen story heaved as if shaken by an earthquake : the slates from the roof were blown in every direction , some being car ?
ried to a prodigious distance .
During the greater partof the night the rain fell in tremendous torrents .
In the interval from two to half-past three in the morning , the barometer sunk very nearly an inch and a half , and reached its greatest depression .
But the tempest continued till about four o'clock , when it began gradually to subside .
Extensive devastation occurred among the trees ; some that were blown downraising two or three tons of clay soil with the roots , Several trees thus thrown down fell with their tops to the W.N.W. The writer concludes from these and other observations , that the first and squally part of the storm began from the E.S.E. , and blew from S. by W. at about midnight ; and that most injury was done to the slating and roof when the wind was not far from the south .
It then gradually veered to the west , till noon , and reached the N.W point by eight o'clock in the evening of the same day .

