]\gt ; [ 295 ] V. On Osmotic Pressures Derived from Vapour-Pressure Measurements : Aqueous Sotutions of Cane Sugar and Methyl Glucoside .
By The Earl of BERKELEY , F.R.S. ; E. G. J. HARTLEY , B.A. ( Oxon ) ; and C. V. BURTON , B. Sc. ( London ) .
Received February 3 , \mdash ; Read March 1 , 1917 .
INTRODUCTORY .
SINCE our previous communicabions on cane sugar ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 77 , 1906 ) and on calcium ferrocyanide Phil. Trans we have sndeavoured to improve the apparatus and method therein described .
In these endeavours , two objects , besides that of determining osmotic pressures , have been in view : ( 1 ) to find out what are the best conditions for making the method both accurate and of general applicability ; ( 2 ) to obtain data for the construction of suitable apparatus for the determination of the absolute vapour density of liquids in air or other gas .
AB far as accuracy is concerned , the close agreement between osmotic pressures observed directly , and those here calculated from the vapour pressures , shows that , for solutions at C. the method is susceptible of considerable precision .
The exp.eriments at C. , however , are on the whole not quite so concordant ; this is probably because the quantity of water vapour in the air stream is some six times the amount carried at C. , so that small variations in conditions which would be without effect at the lower temperature , now make themselves apparent .
This , indeed , is shown clearly in the magnitude of the correction to be applied for the expansion of the air between the solution and water vessels ( see p. 316 ) .
In the early stages of the work ( at C. ) our results indicated that the successful application of the method depends largely on the control of the experimental conditions ; accordingly we made as many changes as possible , but as each experiment takes several days to complete , a long time is required to determine the effect of any one change .
The departure of Mr. HARTLEY for the front prevented a further investigation of the question but we think that no new changes will alter substantiaUy the results now presented .
The tance of measurements of the absolute vapour density of water vapour in air has been realized generally for some time past ; the differences between REGNAULT'S values for air and for a vacuum especially ) require VOL. COXVI II .
[ Publshed May 20 , 1919 .
296 THE EARL OF BERKELEY , MESSRS .
G. J. RTLNr AND C. V. -determination , the more so in that his air values seem in themselves not very satisfactory , and it is just the air values which are wanted in the majority of researches .
The experimental error of our results is now reduced sufficiently to warrant the belief that in absolute measurements the chief difficulty will lie in the determination of the quantity of air passed , rather than in the amount of water vapour it carries .
The research is divided into two parts .
In Part are given the measurements of the compressibilities of the solutions ; these were carried out with the aid of Dr. BURTON .
Part II .
embodies the experiments on the vapour pressures of solutions of cane sugar and -methyl glucoside at C. nd C. , ako some determinations of the vapour of dilute sulphuric acid .
All the experiments , except a few dating later than January 22 , 1916 , were done in conjunction with Mr. HARTLEY .
As both these gentlemen have left the laboratory and are not within reach , the other author should be held responsible for all mistakes in presentation of fact or theory .
PART THE COMPRESSIBILITIES .
( BERKELHIY and BURTON .
) In a previous communication we have given the results of our measurements on the compressibilities of calcium ferrocyanide solutions .
These results were not very satisfactory because the experiments had to be carried out as rapidly as possible , otherwise the prolonged strain on the outer glass tube ( through which the readings on the piezometer stem were taken ) soon caused it to collapse .
New Apparatus.\mdash ; To obviate this , a new apparatus , , was designed in which the glass tube was replaced by a metal casting pierced for windows .
With this apparatus some of the experiments here recorded were made ; but as the main features of A are embodied in yet another apparatus , , the former not be described .
Fig. 1 shows in elevation .
The apparatus is divided into two main pieces , and , which are joined " " pressure tight\ldquo ; by means of a dermatine ring as shown ; this method is similar to that described by us in ' Phil. Mag vol. 32 , 1916 , The upper part ( called the dome ) is furnished with a pair of windows , ( the use of which will be described later ) , and is joined to the essure system by a nut fitted with differential threads , by means of which the steel pressure tubing , , can be forced home into its conical seating at D. The part which is closed at the bottom by a nickel-steel plank ( made " " pressure tight\ldquo ; by dermatine ) , carries five pairs ofwIndow* , spaced at regular intervals for observing the level of the mercuryin the Btem oeKOTIC PRESSURES DERIVFD FROM VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
297 The mndows are tapered plugs cut from one-inch plate glass ; they were into dermatine washers moulded inside and outside to the same taper .
The for the windows in the casting having been machined to this taper ( large inwards ) , the glass together with its rappers was placed in position from the inside and pushed home as well as be by means of wedges .
On putting a high hydroetatic pressure on the apparatus a final\ldquo ; leak-tight\ldquo ; seating was secured .
Bath.\mdash ; The whole apparatus ( about two feet high ) is immersed in a water-bath , which is furnished with a thermostat and stirrer ; submerged electric lamps supply heat , and two of the lamps are under the control of the thermostat .
The front of the bath is fitted with a plate-glass window , so that the graduations on the piezometer stem are seen clearly when a small 4-volt lamp is placed behind the apparatus .
The same bath , divided into two compartments by a loosely fitting vertical partition , was used for the observations at C. One of these compartments contained ice , and a constant stream of cold water was pumped from this compartment into the other .
During an experiment , which took some hours , care was taken that the ice reached nearly to the bottom of the bath , and the supply was maintained by hand .
The variations were observed by means of a Beckmann thermometer reading to C. ( estimating to C. in the bath , and another reading to C. in the dome of the apparatus .
Piezometers.\mdash ; Piezometers similar to those of our earlier were used in apparatus , but in the course of the work we found that there were two drawbacks to this form : ( 1 ) the somewhat large bulb took a considerable time to return to the temperature of the bath after having been heated or cooled by the alterations in pressure ( at C. this effect is small ) ; ( 2 ) it was found that for a given pressure on the apparatus , there was a difference in the final* poeition of mercury stem according as the pressure had previously been rising or falkng .
the faUing pressure gave the higher reading .
The cause of this was eventually to the lubricant surrounding the tap key at the top of the piezometer .
The piezometer shown in fig. 2 meet both troubles .
The bulb total volume about ) is divided into two and , thus giving a larger oling s The tap is now placed at the end of a graduated capillary , , so that by careful manipulation the latter can be filled with mercury to a level which will be in the field of view of window , of fig. 1 .
The remainder of the piezometer contains the solution , except for a oentimetre or t.wo of mercury at the bottom of the stem .
Thus the solution is confined between two surfaces of mercury , and although the mercury meniscus near the tap will move slightly , if this movement be noted the real change in volume of the solution can be calculated .
The Pressures.\mdash ; The apparatus is one of Schaffer and Budenberg 's dead-weight gauges , delivering a maximum pressure of 140 atmospheresj The pressure was transmitted by castor oil from the gcrew plunger to mercury tube ; and by water from the latter to the compressibility apparatus .
In the .
course of the research it was that rapid changes of pressure , especially when on the up grade , caused some uncertainties * That is when the temperature is constant again after the effects of changing the pressure disappeared .
Constancy of temperature is indicated by the fact that there is no further mercury ; indeed , the piezometer is in effect a very sensitive thermometer .
For , on increasing the pressure , the lubricant is compressed , and as there is a in pressure due to the unbalanoed height of the mercury in the stem , the key may move its seating ; this movement obviously iS not reversible .
Occasio ally , another souroe of encountered , namely , that caused by a smau , bubble of air left in the key of the wbr piezometer ; this bubble could be seen ea.sily , but it was found to be there form about to be described .
The presence of this trace of air would give quite lower measurements .
The same apparatus as was used for the determination of direct owmotio , 1906 , p. 486 .
oeMOTIC PRESSURES DERIVED FROM VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
299 the-reading of the mercury level the piezometer .
Direct observation showed that when a certain rate of of pressure was exceeded , the mercury thread might move- rapidly enough to leave some of the solution behind clinging to the walls of the capillary , this was the more rked the stronger the solution .
* To decide the maximum rate of change of pressure that would be safe , experiments ( which are detailed ) were made with the most viscous solution .
of cane sugar per litre ) about to be examined .
Judging by the information thus obtained , the method of changing the pressure described below seems free from objection .
A light metal cup was placed on the top of the floating weights of the Schaffer and Budenberg gauge .
Above this suspended a holow cylinder with a conical en , truncated so as leave a horizontal opening of about cm .
in diameter .
When it was desired to increase the pressure , a quantity of small lead shot equivalent in weight to one of the large weights supplied with the pressure apparatus was run into the cylinder .
On opening the orifice the shot were delivered at a constant rate into the metal cup below .
When the shot had run through , a needle valve , situated so as to cut off the compressibility vessel from the pressure apparatus , was closed ; and the metal cup with its ' contents was replaced rapidly by one of the weights , after which the needle valve was opened .
This process was repeated until the mercury in the piezometer stem showed in the field of view of the adjacent window above .
It was found that the pressure could be lowered slowly enough by means of two needle valves in saries .
Method Followed in the Determinations of the \mdash ; In the present research no attempt was made to get air-free solution .
In our work on calcium ferrocyanide we found that this precaution was unnecessary .
The method followed was to fill the piezometer by gentle suction , taking care that no visible bubbles of air were left behind .
When full , the piezometer was inverted and some mercury run into the open tube above the tap , which , when cautiously opened , allowed a thread to flow downwards into the capillary ( CD of fig. 2 ) , the flow being stopped when the meniscus reached a part of the capillary known to be visible through the upper window ( of fig. 1 ) .
If the determinations were to be made at C. , the piezometer when full was plaoed with its stem immersed in the solution , and the twin bulbs were then cooled by an ice pack until a temperature slightly above that of the bath had been reached ; * This effect is partly dependent on viscosity ; for where some solution has been left in the annular gpwa between the mercury and the walls , this annular space is in effect a capillary tube through which the liquid has to be forced by the hydrostatic pressure of the mercury acting at the bottom of the enclosed solution .
The rate at which the shot fall is independent of the head of shot and depends on the diametel of the orifice .
The correct diameter was found by trial , and was such as to cause the mercury in the stem of the more sensitive piezometer to rise 1 mm. in seconds .
further cooling with the stem in mercury , caused the latter The piezometer was then quickly transferred to its position compressibility apparatus which was already in the bath , thread carried in the stem joined the mercury already in apparatus .
It was found that a satisfactory junction was greatly iltated by off the bottom of the piezometer stem as shown at in fig. 2.* A very similar procedure was followed for the prmnts at 90 C. The piezometer being in place , the upper half of the was passed over the projecting bulbs and secured both to the lower half and to the preuure Supposing these operations to have been carried out successfully , the mercury meniscus should stand , when the bath temperature had been regained , htly below the lowest window ; then a small increase of pressure will bring it opposite th window .
On the other hand , should the meniscus be above this window , the apparatul be taken apart , the mercury driven out so as to replaoe some of it by solution , and after cooling , \amp ; c. , replaced in the bath .
When a steady state had been reached , the pressure on the , the level of the meniscus showing in the lower window and that in the topmost windov ( of fig. 1 ) , and the temperature both of the bath and of the interior of the apparatus were noted .
The pressure was then increased until the meniscus showed in the second window ; this increase of pressure caused a development of heat whioiz was dissipated in about three-quarters of an hour , as indioated by the of the position of the meniscus ; when steady , the five quantities were again noted , and so on .
Having taken readings for the fifth window , the and the process just desoribed was precisely reveraed until the reached .
It is to be n.oted , on the assumption that there is no in the glass of the piezometer , that the same readings ( corrected for small displaoements of the upper meniscus and for any change in the temperature of the bath ) should .
obtaiued whether going up or going down the scale of pressures .
When these dings are noticeably divergent we have generally found that a pellet of mution hue formed across the mercury thread and therefore such should viewed vrith suspicion .
On the other hand even if the readings are the same it is no proof of a $ In later work this difficulty is bottom of the stem .
We would draw attention to a source of error which has been observed in one of piezometers .
This error of mercury can be seen to be moving in good experiment ; thore may have been liquid left behind on the capillary walls which is picked up again when the meniscus leaches it on its downward journey , but we have reason to think that this seldom occurs when changing the pressure slowly as already described .
of Bxperiments.\mdash ; Tho following experiments are selected from the laboratory note-book as a sample of our work with the twin bulb piezometer:\mdash ; EXPEnINENT with a Solution of -Methyl Gluooside at C. .
conc . .
per 100 .
water .
) EXPERIMENT with a lution of are at ( Wt .
conc .
gr. per 100 .
water .
) NOTE.\mdash ; The apparent constancy of the bath is partly fictitious .
The thermometer tapped before each reading .
The Corrections.\mdash ; As already mentioned , a correction has to be observed pressure for the height of mercury in the stem , this correction is self-evident and need not detain us .
but a further correction FROM VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
303 has to be applied to the volume of the piezometer , for it is evident that the higher the mercury in the stem , the more the walls the bulb are caused to oome in towards each other .
To obtain this correction a set of separat , experiments was made with each piezometer , thus : the piezometer was inverted and filled ( up to the graduations in the stem ) with recently boiled water .
The stem was then connected to a mercury manometer by means of a -piece , so that by joining the to an exhaust pump , the pressure on the water could be reduced and the amount of the reduction measured on the manometer .
The change in volume caused by the change in pressure is given directly by the difference in readings of the water meniscus .
These two corrections together with others which will be understood readily ) as applied to the experiment of June 12 .
are shown in Table I. TABLE I. THE RESULTS .
Compressibility of Mercury.\mdash ; The following is a summary of our results with mercury .
Five observations were made : With Piezometer .
The mean relative coefficient at C. between 1 and 101 atmospheres was With Piezometer 7 .
The mean relative coefficient at C. between 1 and 110 atmospheres was With Piezometer .
The mean relative coefficient at C. between 8 and 150 atmospheres was VOL. CCXVIII.\mdash ; A. With Piezometer .
The mean relative coefficient at 8 and 89 atmospheres was With Piezometer 7 .
The mean relative coefficient at C. 28 and 117 atmospheres was All the piezometers , except 7 and 8 which are made of soda-glass , are of glass , we may therefore mean the results for and at C. If we take AMAGAT'S value for the coefficient compressibility of mercury at namely and correct it to C. by means of CARNAZZI'S Cim 5 , 1903 , pp. 73-89 ) temperature coefficient , we get Then the Jena-glass at C. will have a coefficient of ; and at C. it will be ; whilst the soda-glass piezometers , Nos. 7 and 8 , may be taken to have , at C. and C. , the coefficients and respectively .
The mpressibility of Water.\mdash ; For purposes of comparison we give two tions at C. , which have already been published ; these were obtained ilth piezometer , and the mean relative coefficient was , between 15 and 76 atmospheres , in the one case , and in the other for a of to 61 atmospheres .
On adding the coefficient of compressibility of the the mean coefficient for water becomes and These numbers agree with one another remarkably well and do not differ greatly ffom ANAGAT'S values .
The new results for water at C. and C. are given in Table IL , where the columns tabulate the following : \mdash ; ( 1 ) Gives the number of the the mean temperature to which the results are reduced ; ( 8 ) the pressure \mdash ; in the experiments with and .
8 the range is given both for a rising pressure and a falling one ; gives the mean relative coefficient of compressibihty ; ( 5 ) the coefficient for the particular piezometer in use , derived from ibihty of coefficient of the liquid alone , OSMOTIC PRESSURES DERIVED FROM VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
311 On looking at the tables it will be seen that the values for piezometers 7 and 8 at C. , although agreeing among themselves , are considerably lower than our previous results .
We are , however , inclined to attach more weight to these experiments , for as may be seen by comparing the numbers for rising and for falling pressures , they are very concordant .
In the experiments at C. , the earlier values with the Jenaglass piezometer are again higher .
It evident that the experiment with No. 7 at C. is somewhat faulty ; - we are unable to give a reason for this .
The Results for Cane Sugar.\mdash ; The experiments at C. are gathered together in Table III .
where the cohunns have the same meaning as for water , except that the concentration of the solution is put under the number of the piezometer in column ( 1 ) , and when the solution had been made up by weight , its approximate volume concentration ( number of grammes per litre ) is given in brackets .
The numbers in column ( 4 ) for the experiments with the Jena-glass piezometers are generally the mean values obtained with a rising and a falling pressure ; these , as already mentioned , are by no means concordant .
In one or two cases even with No. 7 there were failures due to temperature troubles or to the mercury thread breaking .
These remarks apply generally to all our observations .
Again it will be noticed that the No. 7 results are lower on the whole than those for the other piezometers .
The experiments at C. are tabulated in the same way in Table IV .
, and again the values for piezometer 7 are lower .
The Results for a-methyl Glucoside.\mdash ; These , both for C. and C. , are given in Table V. All the observations are made with either piezometers 7 or 8 and they seem , except in one case , to be good .
Final yalues for the Compressibilities.\mdash ; In this communication the compressibilities are only required for the purpose of calculating the of PORTER'S equation .
* The solutions themselves are very incompressible , so that even over the range of the highest osmotic pressure the effect on the volume is but small , and therefore the pressure effect on will be that of a small correcting term .
In these circumstances it will suffice to give the mean coefficients ( over the range from one atmosphere to the osmotic pressure of each solution ) that we will use later on .
In the set of mean values entered in Table VI .
greater importance was given to the best experiment with piezometers 7 and 8 .
The Calculation of .\mdash ; Although it is common knowledge that the quantity , for the solutions with which we are concerned , differs but little from unity , yet it seems worth while to give the following analysis ( due to Mr. G. W. WALKER ) , as there are numerous cases in which a detailed statement may be important .
Prof. PORTER defines as " " the reduction in a practically infinite volume of 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 80 , 1908 , p. 460 . .
ait .
VOL. CCXVIII.\mdash ; A. 2 flABLE VI.\mdash ; Cane Sugar .
solution when one gramme of solvent escapes " " ; the pressure being maintained constant .
The corresponding quantity for the solute is Hence if is the specific volume of the solution at any pressure , and and are the concentrations ( grammes per gramme of solution ) of the two constituents , we deduce that where is a function of and , and where is a function of and * CALLENDAR , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 80 , 1908 , p. 470 , gives this equation without proof .
It be obtained thus : Let and be of the presont in a volume V of then and and .
Now add a mass of eolvmt , the increase in volume be , we have , and from which , which is OSMOTIC PRESSURES DERIVED FROM VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
313 From this it follows , since , that ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) The form of ( 1 ) at first suggests that and are the specific volumes in the solution of the two components .
This is not necessarily so .
For calling the true specific volumes and , then we have , which on differentiating gives , and , thus and only if There does not appear to be any adequate ground for supposing this condition is in general satisfied .
If it is not , we have and where is in general a funQtion of the pressure and concentration .
Returning now to the calculation of .
Some of the densities given in LANDHOLT and BoRNSTEIN for cane sugar solutions having been verified experimentally , the remainder of their table was taken as correct ; the densities of the -methyl glucoside solutions were determined by us and the mean values are tabulated in .
Table Empirical formulae were then .
obtained which represented the experimental the densities and the compressibilities ( Table VI .
) for different concentrations , and from these formulae the values were computed as a function of and .
In PORTER'S equation* has to be integrated over a range of pressure from one atmosphere to the osmotic pressure of the particular solution ; it was considered sufficiently accurate to regard it as a linear function of the pressure and the mean value , ( equals half the sum of the value at the limits ) is given in Table VIL PART II .
THE VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
Description of Apparatus Method.\mdash ; Although the method employed has already been described it may not be out of place to recaU it to mind .
Dry air is led .
through a number of vessels containing the solution , then through a vessel containing the solvent ( water ) , affi finally over sulphuric acid in the end vessel of the train .
The air is supposed to flow slowly enough to be saturated up to the vapour pressures of the liquids .
In these circumstances , if we call the sum of the losses of weight of solution and solvent , and the loss in the solution alone , then the observed ratio of the vapour density of the solvent to the vapour density of the solution is This statement is however subject to various corrections ; but , before considering these , it will be convenient to describe the complete installation .
Fig. 3 represents in diagram form the arrangement for passing the air stream over the vessels , as finally modified so as to eliminate the various sources of error , which several years ' experience has shown to be possible .
Filtered air , drawn from outside the laboratory , is passed through soda-lime , and then over the surface of sulphuric acid in vessel , where it is deprived of almost all its moisture .
( It may here be mentioned that the chief aim of this final arrangement has been to avoid , as far as possible , any sudden alteration of pressure ; the air passages are therefore made as wide as may be and at no point does the air bubble through any ] On leaving A the air passes through another sulphuric acid vessel which is in , and at the constant temperature of , the bath ; it then enters the in of weighed vessels 1 , 2 , 8 , 4 , and 5 , which contain the various liquids under ation ; the last of these , No. 5 , is again a sulphuric acid vessel .
From 5 .
it goes to the regulating valve C. This valve , which was designed by KELEY and THONAS for another research , consists of a biscuit-porcelain filter ( f ) surrounded to a variable height by mercury .
It will be seen that the volume of * See p. 343 .
air passing through the whole apparatus is approximately proportional to the of the filter not covered by mercury , and it may be stated that we have found this device most useful , especially when it is provided with a graduated scale to enable one to set the mercury level to a definite height .
Before reaching , the air has passed a side-tube which connects with the vessel D. This vessel ( of 5 litres capacity ) , containing a small quantity of water , the level of which is observed ( telescopically ) in the graduated capillary tube , serves three purposes .
With the tap closed , and the mercury in to the proper level , the rise of the water in is a measure of the rate at which the air is passing ; thus any obstruction in the air stream will at once be indicated , while the amplitude of the oscillations ( if any ) of the water meniscus affords a means of detecting outside atmospheric pulses .
Again , with the tap open ( and this is the normal position during an experiment ) the outside air pulses are practically eliminated , and any oscillations that may then be apparent are the result of changes in pressure on the exhaust side .
It was found that when the iron tank was added to the apparafus the pulses were so reduced as to be scarcely perceptible .
The air normally passes through tap into ( 200litres capacity ) , and tap is kept closed ; this latter tap is only used in conjunction with vessel when testing the various joints for leaks .
A partial vacuum is maintained both in and in the 15-litre jar by a Fleuss pump ( not shown ) which is joined on at L. In the main , the degree of vacuum is determined by the height of oil in , above the air inlet M. We will now consider the various corrections that have to be applied to the experimentally determined vapour pressures .
BURTON'S Correct \mdash ; The most important of these is that which we will call " " BURTON'S correction for it was he who showed that the effect is not negligible as we had erroneously assumed .
The correction is inherent in the method itself , and will be apparent at once when it is realized that the air stream ( which has been saturated up to the vapour-pressure of the solution ) on entering the water vessel is expanded slightly by the vapour it takes up there ; consequently the volume when leaving the water vessel is slightly greater than when it left the solution .
This correction , together with the effect due to changes in barometric briefly outlined in ' Nature ' ( March 11 , 1915 , p. 34 ) ; there are , however , involved which make a more general discussion desirable .
If we make the assumptions that the temperature of both solution and solvent is the same and remains constant , and that the air space between them is small , and further , that the air stream flows slowly enough for complete saturation and freedom from turbulent motion , then the folowing analysis ( for which we have to thank Mr. G. W. WALKER ) will be applicable .
Let be the pressure of the air at any point in the train of veSsek and passage in cubic centimetres per second .
Let and be the vapour solution and solvent respectively and and the corresponding .
vapour OSMOTIC PRESSURIS DffllIYED FROM VAPOUR.-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
317 If and be the values of and when the air enters the solution vessel , then the volume of air that passes through this vessel in time is and the mass of vapour carried off is and the loss of weight will be where is the whole time of the experiment .
In a similar way , if the dry air were passed through the solvent vessel the loss of weight would be But in the actual experiment the moist air passes from the solution to he solvent , so that the loss of weight in the solvent vessel is Since the mass of air passing through is the same at all points , .
Also as is proportional to the effective driving pressure through the whole train of vessels ( and to a factor depending on the dimensions of the apparatus ) , if we assume this pressure and the barometer to be constant , we have ( 3 ) ' but and are of the order of mm. Hg below atmospheric prsssure , whilst the difference between them is of mm. Hg ; and further , the barometric pressure , , is of the order 760 and of 30 mm. mercury ; we may , therefore , as a first approximation write and assuming we get .
( 4 ) If either the barometer or the driving pressure varies , this formula is not strictly correct , and in general we should have to evaluate the integral numericaly a record of the pressures ; we may still , however , write and where the quantities involved must now be .
given some mean value , which is not necessarily the arithmetic mean .
But in the experiments the magnitude of the quantities makes it clear that the arithmetic mean is a very close approximation to the true value , and hence equation ( 4 ) is sufficiently accurate if is the mean barometer .
To make quite sure that this is correct we have verified it in an extreme case , where during the experiment the barometer varied irregularly by some 30 mm. , but no sensible error was introduced .
Nevertheless cases may arise in which the error might be important , and attention is therefore drawn to it so that the correction may not be overlooked .
For instance , during high winds the barometer fluctuates rapidly , and it is conceivable that equilibrium is not established throughout the apparatus instantaneously .
In this case the assumptions made in the formula are not valid , and indeed we have some experimental evidence that the results are affected by rapid air pulses .
As regards a change in the temperature of the bath , obviously the quantities involved in the calculation are also affected , but equation ( 4 ) , in which the values appropriate to the mean temperature are used , is still a close approximation provided the temperature changes are sufficiently small .
In our experiments is always less than , hence the osmotic pressure , which is proportional to , is approximately proportional to ; thus it is only with the loss of weight of the water vessel that the highest accuracy is required .
We will now endeavour to estimate the errors involved should the assumptions made at the beginning of the preceding analysis not be strictly accurate .
Solution Solvent not at same Temperature .
*\mdash ; Although the effect of a difference between the temperatures of the solution and solvent could be investigated fully from the equations already established , yet it is thought that the following simple method of considering the matter is sufficient .
Take the case of a weight normal solution of cane sugar at C. This solution is the most dilute that we have investigated , and it is here that the error due to a temperature difference has the largest effect .
Suppose .
( i.e. , 20 gr. of water are evaporated from the whole system during the run ) and .
Now assume a persistent difference in temperature during the whole run of ; this is equivalent to a change of per cent. in the density of water ; so that the loss in the water vessel ] differ from the See note at end of DERIVED FROM VAPOUR-PRRESSURE TS .
319 true value by 20 , entailing a per cent. error of both in the loss in this vessel and on the calculated osmotic pressure .
Several attempts to explore the distribution of temperature throughout the bath were made with Beckman thermometers and with thermocouples , but , except within about 3 cm .
of the surface , no certain indication of a difference approaching to C. could be detected ; further , as a check to this , vapour pressure experiments in which the bath was stirred 50 per cent. faster than the normal rate ( in the normal rate , the surface of the water immediately over the stirrer is raised about 1 cm .
above the general level ) resulted in no change .
Similarly , should the pressure ( see equation ( 3 ) ) over the solution differ from over the solvent by as much as mm. Hg , an amount which represents a change of per cent. on the volume of air passed , we get an error on the loss of weight of the .
solvent of gr. , and this is nearly per cent. on the osmotic pressure derived from experiments on a weight normal solution at C. Direct observations ( by means of a sensitive oil manometer ) of the difference between and show that in no case is this quantity greater than mm. , and the consequent correction will be , for the most dilute solutions , about 1 part in 5000 .
It should be pointed out , however , that the magnitude of the correction is proportional to the vapour pressure of the pure solvent , so that for very volatile liquids or water at a higher temperature the air passages must be wide so as to offer as little resistance to flow as possible .
Air between Solution Solvent.\mdash ; An error , due to the air space between the two vessels , may arise thus .
When the barometer is varying no steady state is reached , and it is easy to see that as it takes a finite time for the air to travel from one vessel to the other , and are no longer equal , and a time lag results .
* : An estimate of the maximum error due to.this cause is the following .
From th .
dimensions of the apparatus it is computed that , supposing 500litres of air to pass in 125 hours , it will take 25 seconds to pass from one vessel to the other .
If the barometer rises 30 mm. during the run , it is readily found that the solvent vessel will have lost .
in excess of the amount given by the approximate formula ( 4 ) .
Slowness of Air Stream and urbulent Motion.\mdash ; There seems to be no means of subjecting these two factors to mathematical analysis ; but in both cases we may safely assume that any effect there may be will be enhanced when we increase the rate at which water vapour is taken from the system .
Experiments , the details of which need not be given , were made in this direction , but without any ariation in the result ; ako a further safeguard is provided by the fact that in experiments where there were two or more vessels ( containing the solution ) in series , the vessel scarcely changes in weight .
It is as well however to point out that owing to the irregular contours of the air passages some turbulent motion must set up , * This is for Apparatus ; for Apparatus the fall of pressure is about mm. Hg .
VOL. OCXVIII.\mdash ; A. 2 TIIE OF Er . .
J. AND O. and possibly fluctuations in this may help to cause the slight variations which to occur in high winds .
Weighing Corrections.\mdash ; In applying the usual buoyancy corrections there are special circumstances to be c.onsidered .
In the earlier part of our research been content to regard the loss of weight in the solution as a measure of the in the volume of displaced air for which the buoyancy correction should be calculated .
Having improved the manipulation and consequently the accuracy of the experiments , it was seen that this rough estimate could be bettered if we knew the specific volume of the solution remaining in the vessel at the end of the run .
The data required are obtained approximately if we know the initial quantity of solution in each branch and how far crystallization has proceeded .
The magnitude of the correction thus deduced is in no case greater than and may in the calculations of osmotic pressure be neglected : it however is of importance when we balance the losses against the gain by the sulphuric acid in the end vessel .
Similarly , but only since November 5 , 1915 , have we applied the corresponding correction to the change in the specific volume of the sulphuric acid when it absork water .
In this case we have succeeded in making the correction more precise , for knowing that practically all the water is absorbed in the first two branches*of the vesse ] , it is an easy matter ( especially in the new quartz apparatus ) to cause their coutents to mix , so that having noted the original amount of acid present the specific volume of this new solution can be calculated .
The correction obviousldepends on the relative quantities of acid and water ; it has never risen to a higher figure than From a series of blank weighings with vessels treated -ldas in an actual experiment it was deduced that the probable weighing error is gr a quantity which is about the millionth part of the total weight on the pans .
Other Sources of Error.\mdash ; A few other sources of error have been investigated , but as , in the apparatus used , their effect is never large enough to alter the results , they will only be mentioned briefly .
There is a small weighing error due to the fact that the air contained in the water vessel is saturated , and its density is therefore leae than that of the air in the balance case .
The usual buoyancy correction.might have to be modified were it not that the vessels are weighed before and after the experiment under practically the same circumstances .
It is found that even two or three degrees difference in the temperature of the balance case , although it causes a change in the vapour pressure , does not affect the weighinga It was thought that plunging the vessels straight from the laboratory into the bath at C. might bring about some uncertainties ; these , *See BERKELEY and HARTLEY , ' On a New Form of Sulphuric Acid Drying vol. 29 , 1915 .
Care is taken that the pressure inside the vessel is the same as in the OSMOTIC PRESSURES DERIVED FROM VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
321 reduced to smaU dimensions if care be taken that the full air stream is not turned on before the apparatus has come to the bath temperature ; on the other hand , we found that taking the apparatus out of the bath without aIly preliminary treatment* caused a large error owing to the fact that the connecting tubes ( and other air spaces ) cooled more rapidly than the iquids , and so acted as condensers on which moisture was deposited ; this trouble was eventually overcome by running cold water into the bottom of the bath ( so as to displace the hot water ) until it just reached the level of the vessels .
In this manner the liquids were caused to cool earlier than the connecting tubes .
Another Possible Source of Error is that Due to Diffusion.\mdash ; A small amount of diffusion of water vapour from the solvent to the sulphuric acid takes place during the time the appa.ratus is being set up and taken down ; the total time taken for these operations is roughly about four hours , and calculation shows that at C. not more than gr. of water would come over .
The Vessels.\mdash ; Four different sets of vessels have been used in this research , and for a proper understanding of the objects for which they were made , a brief description follows .
In the earlier part we used the set of vessels ( with their platinum joining tubes , \amp ; c. ) and the method of oscillating the platform on which they stand in the bath described in 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 209 , pp. 177-203 .
In the same communication it will be noticed that one experiment ( p. 188 ) , where there had been no oscillation , gives a result that scarcely differs from the others .
This led.to a number of test experiments ( details need not be given ) which satisfied us that oscillation , anyhow under certain circumstailces , was not essential .
We will call this set , when oscillated , Apparatus Aa ; and without oscillation , Apparatus Ab .
It is to be noted that from now onwards oscillation was given up .
In the next set ( Apparatus B ) which followed the general lines of Apparatus but was unfortunately constructed of soft Jena-glass , three changes were made : ( 1 ) the capacity of the vessels was largely increased ( the diameter of the tubing forming the horizontal branches is now cm .
) to ensure that , for a dilute solution such as weight-normal sugar , the loss of the water vessels would be large enough to reduce the probable weighing error to 1 part in a 1,000 ; ( 2 ) the dipping tube , that is the tube joining the water and sulphuric acid vessek , was now increased in diameter from 1 mm. to 6 mm ; ( 3 ) the platinum joining tubes were replaced by glass ones as shown in fig 4 , which is a vertical cross-section through the centre of the vessek ; , and are ground and lubricated joints , drowned in mercury ; whilst is a silver sleeve which was added when constructing the quartz-glass apparatus to be described .
The object of this new form of joint is to enable the observer to weigh the inverted -tubes so as to find out whether water has been deposited in them .
would state here that normally water is only found in the -tube joining the precautions to be taken when working at C. will be obvious .
water vessel to the sulphuric acid ; when it occurs in the other tubes there always been some faulty manipulation or a rapid change in the temperature bath .
Apparatus C. It was soon noticed that the soft Jena-glass seemed liable to deposition of moisture ( possibly this glass is more soluble than also that cracks were developed in it .
Hitherto , it will be recalled , the constructed so that the air enters at the middle of the first branch and middle of the last branch ; the stream is thus divided , re-united , divided then re-united .
It was thought that possibly better results would be obtained if the air were to enter at one end of the first branch , and , traVelling along each branch in succession , were to leave the vessel at tha end of the fourth and last branch .
so constructed of ordinary soda-glas .
, but no apparent gain Apparatus D. nwhile a number of experiments were made with a preventing the deposition of moisture mentioned above .
substituted for the water vessel in Apparatus and was found to be an so it was decided to make all the vessek of sihca glass , the joints fig. 4 , with addition of a silver sleeve resting on the figure ; this sleeve helps to prevent diff.usion into the space ends of the inverted -tubes .
oeMOTIC PRESSURES DEBIVED FROM VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
323 Even now water was occasionally deposited where it had no business to be .
The cause of this was finally traced to the method we had hitherto employed in cleaning the vessels and their joining tubes .
We had made a point of always cleaning out everything with " " chromic\ldquo ; acid , and washing this acid out with distilled water ( six washings in all ) and then drying the parts in a current of air .
It was noticed that dew formed at the places where the last drops of water evaporated off .
This at once suggested that on evaporation the water left behind it some soluble substance , which , during the subsequent passage of saturated air , formed a solution having a smaller vapour pressure than pure water , hence the deposits .
That the water actually did contain soluble matter was easily shown by evaporating off 100 .
in a.platinum dish .
Efforts to obtain water free from this soluble matter failed completely , even though it was redistilled four times with all the usual precautions for obtainin " " conductivity\ldquo ; water .
That the deposit shown on the platinum dish did not come from the atmosphere was proved by evaporating off the samples in a desiccator over sulphuric acid .
Eventually the vessels were cleaned by giving them a final washing with pure alcohol* and drying in a current of warm air .
Although this procedure was successful in reducing the trouble , yet the platinum tube ( bore mm. ) which ed vessels 4 and 5 ( the water to the sulphuric acid ) generally contained about .
of water .
No valid explanation of this phenomenon has yet been found , and it is the more inexplicable in that three experiments have lately been carried out in which both the third and fourth vessels were reserved for water , with the result that the quartz tube between 3 and 4 contained less than hile the platinum tube retained the usual quantity .
One of these experiments was arranged so that hydrogen was passed through the train of vessels instead of air .
We would draw particular attention to this question of the deposition of moisture , for there seems to be no doubt that it may have been a source of error in previous determinat of the absolute vapour density of water in air .
The Experiments at These experiments were all made with Apparatus Aa .
The cane sugar and the -methyl together with the method of estimating the water content are described in 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. ' , vol. 92 , 1916 , p. 479 .
The following is an example experiment .
*The alcohol used was KAHLBAUM'S purest , re-distilled twice .
Samples from the first distillation left deposits on the platinum dish , which were partially soluble in water , but the second distillation was found to be pure .
If the conclusion come to in note added at of- the paper be correct , namely , that the last branch of vessel 4 is at a highel temperature thaIl the of bath , the1 } coudepsation in tho platinum tube is to be expected .
A word of explanation is necessary ; all weighings are made against a counterpoise which is constructed of the same material as the vessels , and approximately the same area exposed to the air .
The counterpoise and vessels before weighing , treated with " " chromic\ldquo ; acid , washed carefully with distilled and finally with pure alcohol .
The alcohol is wiped off with linen dusters .
It is that this procedure results in leaving the surfaces in the same condition .
The and mean that the counterpoise is on the right or left pan respectively , small correcting terms are those due to buoyancy .
The results obtained for these lwo substances are given in Tables VIII .
and IX .
, and it should be mentioned that in all the tables relating to vapour pressure , columns , which are numbered the same , tabulate corresponding quantities .
Column ( 1 ) gives the date of setting the apparatus up in the bath and starting the air current .
Column ( 2 ) gives the weight concentration of the solutions , is the ratio of number of grammes of anhydrous substance to 100 .
of water .
Column ( 3 ) gives the mean temperature*of the bath during the experiment ; and Column ( 4 ) the mean barometer .
It was only after the experiments at C. were finished that the importance of BURTON'S correction was discovered .
Although the height of the barometer had not been noted we were able to estimate the mean barometric pressure to an accuracy of 1 mm. , from the records of alarge-size aneroid barograph which is part of the laboratory equipment .
Where by some mischanoe the barograph has failed , the barometer readings were kindly supplied by the Director of the Radcliffe Observatory at Oxford , to whom our best thanks are due .
Column ( 5 ) .
The numbers in this column are the total loss of weight of solution and solvent vessels ; in the earlier part of the research we filled all solution vessels with the same solution ; later work showed that two different solutions in series might be used , and the numbers marked thus indicate these experiments .
The numbers are the observed values corrected for buoyancy .
Column ( 6 ) gives the sum of the observed losses of weight of the solution and water vessels divided by the loss in the solution vessek , i.e. , the ratio Column ( 7 ) gives the change in weight in the inverted ) dipping\ldquo ; tube ) connecting the.water and sulphuric acid vessels .
This tube was always weighed as soon as possible after disconnecting the vessels ; in most experiments with Apparatus Aa a trace of dew , which quickly disappeared , was noticed on the outer surface of the part .
of the tube next to the water .
A minus sign means that the tube lost weight on passing warm air through it ; a positive sign can only be the result of In the cases where this quantity , is enclosed in brackets it is to be understood that to slight mishap the experiment is not as trustworthy as others .
Probably the dew ( it was seldom observed with the other apparatus ) is caused by the oooling of the air stream , when throttled by having to pass through this tube , which is slightly than 1 mm ' in internal diameter .
faulty manipulation .
It must be remembered that the tube has to be weighed quickly as possible .
Column ( 8 ) .
This column is headed " " tot up\ldquo ; ; by this we mean that the tabulated numbers are the difference in weight between the gain in the last vessel of the train ( which contains sulphuric acid ) and the sum of the losses of solution and water ; the weight of water found in the " " \ldquo ; tube is added to that of the sulphuric acid , and a negative sign means that the losses are the greater , whilst the positive sign means that they are the smaller .
It has been pointed out in a previous communication that the closer t.hese numbers approach to zero the greater the probability that the experiment is a good one .
Column ( 9 ) gives the number of hours during which the air has passed through the vessels .
Column ( 10 ) gives the value of the ratio correc for " " BURTON'S\ldquo ; correction ( see p. 316 ) on the assumption that and of equation ( 3 ) are equal to one another .
Column ( 11 ) gives corrected to the standard weight concentration* printed across the page , and also corrected to the standard temperature of C. or .
C. , as the case may be .
The Experiments at C.\mdash ; Before proceeding to enumerate the experiments on sulphuric acid solutions it may be mentioned that since the completion of the work on calcium ferrocyanide we have made over 60 special test experiments ( they are in addition to such as are detailed here ) which have taken 287 days to complete .
For the most part these were directed to testing alterations both in the vessels and in the speed of the air stream ; a number were devoted to investigating the influence of ions in the air current ( for this purpose a special set of vessels furnished with was constructed ) , but with no definite result ; others on " " tot up and fall of pressure along the vessels were also made .
The changes thus suggested are embodied in Apparatus , whilst the final method of causing the air to flow is given on p. 316 .
We give an example of what we consider to be a satisfactory experiment at this temperature .
The experiments on sulphuric acid solutions we made more for the purpose of testing the experimental conditions than for the determination of vapour pressures .
But as they have turned out to be sufficiently concordant we give the details in Table X. From a study of these figures the following remarks seem justified .
* This correction is obtained from the equation , where is tration and and are constants .
For cane sugar ; and for gtueoside , and is a maximum at for cane sugar and one at the glucqsida oeKOTIC PRESSURES DERIVED FROM VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
335 If we neglect the experiment of November 22 , 1913 , where the soda-lime tube was found to .
be nearly blocked up , the first two sets of experiments , as judged by the figures in column ( 11 ) , show very good agreement .
It is probable that the experiment of January 8 , 1914 , is slightly too high , on account of air pulses , a gale blowing during the run .
The experiments of October 26 , November 11 and 25 , in 1914 , are only included to show the kind of results obtained when moisture condenses on the connecting tubes and in other parts , the magnitude of this is seen from the numbers in columns ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) ; but the last three experiments are in excellent agreement .
In the first three of the next set , approximate buoyancy corrections for the specific volume of the sulphuric acid are applied , whilst the last three are properly corrected .
Two important deductions may be drawn:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The method , even with a liquid having a vapour pressure as high as 81 mm. melcury , is susceptible of considerable accuracy .
( 2 ) Confirmation is obtained of the view that the losses on the solution and solvent should be equal to the gain of the sulphuric acid .
Experiments with Cane Sugar -Methyl Glucoside.\mdash ; These are given in Tables ( XI .
) and ( XII .
) and the columns have the same sigIlification as before .
The numbers in column ( 12 ) for both cane sugar and -methyl glucoside are derived from the equation where , for cane sugar , , with a maximum at ; and for -methyl glucoside , and , with a maximum at .
The correction for temperature , which in all cases is very small , is assumed to be proportional to the temperature interval .
The numbers in the column headed " " jump\ldquo ; ( the jump was not determined for the -methyl glucoside solution ) were obtained as follows :When the vessels had been weighed at the end of the experiment they were again set up in the bath and a Threlfall oil manometer was connected to the air-stream , so that the fall in the pressure along the vessels could be measured .
It was found that at a certain point in the oscillation , there was frequently a distinct and rapid throttling action ; the numbers in the column record the change of pressure due to this .
* We would point out that a " " jump\ldquo ; taking place at the end of an experiment , when water has already been transferred from one vessel to another , is no proof that the obstruction has been there during the whole run , and conversely , no " " jump\ldquo ; does not necessarily mean that there has not been one during part of the run .
The " " new sugar\ldquo ; mentioned in the sugar column is some specially pure , which Messrs. Tate , to whom our thanks are due , kindly gave us .
The " " jump\ldquo ; seems to , be connected with the great viscosity of sugar solutions .
VOL. We would draw particular attention to the results noted in the long experiments with a weight concentration of .
to 100 of water .
It would seem , judging from the numbers in column ( 11 ) with apparatus Aa ( i.e. , when oscillating ) and apparatus Ab ( no oscillation ) , that the results are more consistent when the " " jump\ldquo ; is small .
Coming now to the experiments with apparatus , it will be noticed at once ffom the three experiments of May 28 , June 6 , and June 12 , 1914 , that the further the bottom of the dipping tube is from the water level ( these experiments , unlike a similar set with sulphuric acid , were varied by keeping the water-level constant and altering the length of the dipping tube ) the smaller becomes .
In other words , the quantity of water taken away from the water vessel is a function of the vertical distance between the water and the tube .
Obviously one way of explaining this is by supposing that some of the water which was originally in the air-stream condenses on the sides of the vessel before it reaches the dipping tube .
That this explanation is probably shown by the next three experiments ; in the first of these , the last branch of the water vessels was empty and consequently a large proportion of the water condensed in it ; in the next two this branch was coated with either paraffin wax or " " bakelite , \ldquo ; with the result that the normal values were regained .
That these results are normal is shown by the two experiments with apparatus , where the vessel is of quartz and the dipping tube is some cm .
away from the surface .
Thus we have conclusively proved at no accurate results can be obtained with these glass vessels , unless the bottom of the exit tube is very close to the surface of the water ; incidentally it may be remarked that such is actually the case with apparatus Aa and Ab .
Pulses.\mdash ; It will be seen that the deviations in are larger than can be accounted for by the known probable error of weighing .
During search for an explanation of this , it was noticed that the results , when all other conditions were constant , seemed higher during the prevalence of gales .
Unfortunately , this connection ( if any ) cannot be put on firm ground , because , as already stated , we have made as many alterations in the conditions as possible and consequently there are but few suitable experiments for comparison .
Mr. J. W. WALKER suggested that the anomalies might be due to the greater number and amplitude of the air pulses in high winds .
* To reduce this source of trouble as much as possible the air current was altered so that there were no pulses of any kind either from the atmosphere or from the pump , and the two experiments of June 24 and July 13 , 1916 , were carried out on the most dilute solution .
The results show a satisfactory agreement and differ but little from previous experiments .
One interesting fact requires mention .
* We were unable to test this hypothesis as the only suitable records of air pulses , are kept at the Meteorological Office and Sir N. SHAW would not let OSMOTIC PRESSURES DERIVFD FROM VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTs .
343 that in the experiments at C. with dilute sulphuric acid the second vessel scarcely changes in weight , but with both cane sugar and -methyl glucoside there is a small but persistent loss ; this effect may indicate that the latter two substances suffer a slight decomposition , but experiments designed to elucidate this point are now in progress .
The Calculation of the Osmotic Pr.essures.\mdash ; The osmotic pressures are connected with the vapour pressures by PORTER'S equation Proc. , , ( 5 ) where is the osmotic pressure , and the pressure on the solution ; and are , as before , the vapour pressures of the solution and solvent respectively ; and are the specific volumes of the solvent vapour and pure liquid solvent respectively .
In our paper on calcium ferrocyanide solutions we give reasons for thinking that equation ( 5 ) should be modified so as to be applicable to the vapour densities when measured in air .
From the following discussion , which is contributed by Mr. G. W. WALKER , it would seem that we were mistaken , and that the air values may be used without change .
In the experiments the pressure on the pure solvent is one atmosphere .
Hence ( 5 ) becomes but for vapour over the pure solvent .
PORTER , Therefore ' where is the vapour pressure observed .
Again , for the vapour over the solution .
Therefore where is the observed vapour pressure of the solution .
Therefore * This result might have been anticipated had it been noticed that Sir J. J. THONSON , in articles 90 and 91 of ' ' Applications of Dynamics shows that the increase in vapour pressure of a pure liquid caused by the pressure of the atmosphere upon it , precisely balances the lowering brought about by the dissolved air in it .
VOL. OXVIII .
hence where is the mean value of over the range of 1 to .
If BoYLE'S law is true for the vapour in air we get , . . .
( 6 ) and modifying this conformity with ( 4 ) we get , . . . . .
( 7 ) where The osmotic pressures calculated by means of ( 7 ) are given in Tables XIII .
and , in which column ( 1 ) gives the weight concentrate .
Columns ( 2 ) and the values of obtained as a weighted mean value of the numbers in column ( 11 ) of the previous tables , Columns ( 3 ) and ( 6 ) the values of used in the calculation , and ( 4 ) and ( 7 ) the resulting osmotic pressures .
Column ( 8 ) gives such osmotic pressures as have been observed directly ; these are the results tabulated in Proc , vol. 92 , 1916 , pp. 483-484 , reduced to the new ations .
Unfortunately , in paper , by an oversight , the following two " " direct\ldquo ; osmotic pressures were .
omitted : solution of cane sugar of weight concentration gave an osmotic pressure of atmospheres , another of weight concentration TABLE XIII.\mdash ; Cane Sugar .
VAPOUR-PRESSURE MEASUREMENTS .
347 [ During the course of further work on vapour pressures at C. , Mr. E. STENHOUSE and I have found that with apparatus when the 3rd and 4th vessels each contain water , latter always gives up a measurable quantity of vapour to the air stream .
A number of experiments , which need not be detailed , have proved that the air on leavi is saturated ; yet 4loses , on the average gr. of water per gramme of total vapour carried to , and absorbed by , the sulphuric acid in vessel 5 .
Three explanations seem to me to be possible : ( 1 ) .
The current of air may not be fast enough to prevent an extra loss caused by diffusion to the sulphuric acid .
( It is to be noted that when no air passes , about .
of water diffuses in the time usually taken for an experiment .
) This hypothesis is ruled out by the fact that in an experiment with water in 3 , 4 and the first two branches at 5 ( the other two containing sulphuric acid ) , 4 still showed the usual loss in weight .
( 2 ) Remembering that the vapour is practically all absorbed in the first branch of 5 , it seemed possible that the sudden drop in pressure used by this absorption *It is only with apparatus , where the deposibion of water in the quartz joining tubes is small , that we have been able to put two water vessels in series .
348 THE EARL OF BERKffiEY , MESSR8 : E. G. J. HARTLEY AND V. might disturb the air stream over the adjacent water sufficiently to upset the conditions of flow demanded by theory .
Testing this hypothesis by an in which the sulphuric acid was absent , there was the usual loss in 4 .
this experiment strengthens the conclusion come to under ( 1 ) , and it also shows .the heat generated in 5 by the absorption of the water is not the cause of the trouble .
( 3 ) Nevertheless I am driven to the assumption that a permanent inequality temperature between vessels 3 and 4 is maintained .
Unfortunately , when exploring the bath by means of thermocouples , as mentioned on p. 318 , it was not realized that the presence of the train of might make a difference to the free circulation of the bath water .
A further examination with a Beckman thermometer ( reading to C. and estimating to placed alternately over the last branches of a and 4 respectively ( it is only the exit branches that matter ) , seems to show that the latter is C. higher than the former .
No stress should be laid on this for its magnitude only became apparent when the readings had been averaged and disentangled from the oscillations in the temperature of the bath as a whole .
It is noteworthy , however , that a difference of C. between the two vessels is sufficient to account for the erved loss .
Whatever be the cause of the loss of water in vessel 4 apparatus , it is obvious that a correction should be applied to the experiments with that set .
It seems probable that a correction should also be applied to the experiments with the other apparatus , but as the method of heating the bath , and the original position of the heaters cannot be recovered exactly , I am unable to determine what the correction should be .
The accompanying table gives , for the experiments with , the corrected values together with the osmotic pressure calculated from the mean It will be seen that the percentage difference between the new and old values of diminishes as the concentration increases .
Taking the lues for cane sugar , the difference for the weight concentration of 34 .
per 100 water is about 1 per cent. , while at 183 it is only per oent .
- , we may therefore feel confident that for higher concentrations the values given in the body of this communication would not be modified appreciably even if we were in a position to apply the correction under discussion .
]

