I. The reading of Mr. HORNEt 's paper was resumed and concluded .
The author commences by observing , that although it be highly improbable that we can ever form an appropriate estimate in years of the age even of the most modern strata , we are not cut off from all hope of being able to assign an amount in years to the duration of some of the great geological changes which , in past ages , the present surface of the earth has undergone , by causes that are still in operation ; especially by a careful study of the formation of the deltas of great rivers , and of the action of the latter on the rocks and soils they traverse in their course .
If in a country in which a certain alteration in the land has occurred , we know that such alteration has taken place in part within historical time , and if the entire change under consideration presents throughout a tolerable uniformity of character , we may be justified in holding the portion that has taken place within the historical period to afford a measure of the time occupied in the production of the antecedent part of the same change .
Egypt supplies us with the earliest evidence of the existence of the human race recorded in works of art ; in its monuments we find the dawn of the historical period and of civilization ; and that land alone , of all parts of the world as yet known to us , offers an instance of a great geological change that has been in progress throughout the whole of the historical period , in its annual inundations and the sediment these deposit to form the alluvial land in the valley of the Nile ; and there is good reason for believing that the change had been going on with the same uniformity for ages prior to that period when our reckoning of historical time begins .
To investigate the formation of the alluvial land in the valley of the Nile in Upper and Lower Egypt is therefore an object of the highest interest to the geologist and the historian .
The author being impressed with the conviction that this geological problem could only be solved by having shafts and borings made in the alluvial soil to the greatest practicable depths , determined to have some such experiments made ; as the results might lead the way to other researches on a greater scale .
The ground on which he hoped to be able to form a chronometric scale by which the total depth of sediment reached might be measured , was the same as that on which the French engineers in 1800 had proceeded , viz. the accumulation of Nile sediment around monuments of a known age .
If that depth of sediment be divided by the number of centuries that have elapsed since the date of the erection of the monument , we obtain a scale of the secular increase of which the base of the monument is zero , assuming that the average increase from century to century has been uniform within an area of some extent .
Then if the excavation be continued below the base stone , and the sediment passed through exhibits similar characters as to composition with that above the base line of the monument , it would be fair to apply the same graduation below the zero-point of the scale as above it , and , if we reached so far , we should be able to estimate the time that has elapsed since the first layer of sediment was deposited on the rock forming the channel over which the water spread when it first flowed northward from its sources in the interior of Africa , subject however to correction for causes that might make a difference in the rate of increase between the earlier and later periods .
The author submitted his scheme to the President and Council of the Royal Society , who encouraged his proceeding by acceding to his request of a grant from the Donation Fund at their disposal , towards the expenses of the researches .
The author introduces his subject by a sketch of the physical geography and geology of Egypt , a description of the annual inundations , and of the sediment deposited from the water of the Nile .
Egypt is separated from Nubia by a low hilly region , about fifty miles broad from north to south , chiefly composed of granitic rocks , but associated with two kinds of sandstone , the one belonging to the cretaceous series , the other of the newer tertiary age .
The valley of Upper Egypt is bounded by two ranges of hills running northward , the Arabian range on the right , the Libyan on the left of the river , both alike composed of sandstones and limestone .
The cretaceous sandstone extends from the granitic rocks forming the first cataract at Assouan for about eighty-five miles , where it is covered by a limestone which has the characters of the upper chalk of Europe .
This chalk continues on both sides of the valley for about 130 miles , when it is covered in its turn by a tertiary nummulite limestone , and of which the further prolongation northward of both ranges is composed ; this nummulite limestone can be well studied in the extensive quarries of Gebel Mokattam above Cairo , The author briefly describes the operations of the private association of English , French , and Austrian Engineers in 1846-47 , corn .
monly called the French Brigade , for the purpose of determining the disputed question of the relative levels of the Red Sea and Mediterranean .
The French engineers , at the beginning of the present century , had come to the conclusion that the Red Sea was about 30 feet above the Mediterranean , but the observations of Mr. Robert Stephenson , the English engineer , at Suez , of M. Negretti , the Austrian , at Tineh near the ancient Pelusium , and the levellings of Messrs. Talabot , Bourdaloue and their assistants , between the two seas , have proved that the low-water mark of ordinary tides at Suez and Tineh is very nearly on the same level , the difference being , that at Suez it is rather more than one inch lower .
At the island of Phile , about five miles above Assouan , may properly be placed the first entrance of the Nile into Egypt .
It is here about two miles broad , but is soon after divided into several branches by the rocks that rise up in its bed to form the rapids , commonly called the First Cataract , which have a descent of about 85 feet in a distance of five miles .
Here the river is contracted to about a third of a mile .
Assouan is about 300 feet above Cairo , and the distance between the two places being 556 miles , the average fall of the river is little more than half a foot in a mile , 0'54 , and Assouan being 365 feet above the Mediterranean , and 696 miles distant from it , the average fall of the Nile from the foot of the First Cataract to the sea is 0'525 in a mile .
Low Nile at Cairo is 43 feet 61 inches ( as measured by the French Brigade in 1847 ) above low-water mark in the Mediterranean , and the distance being 149 miles , the average fall is little more than 3inches in a mile .
The author cites a report of Mr. Rennie to the British Association in 1834 , showing that the fall of the Thames , between Chertsey and Teddington Lock , is nearly 17inches in a mile .
The commencement of the annual inundation is about the summer solstice .
The rise is scarcely perceptible for six or eight days , it then becomes more rapid , and about the middle of August has usually reached one-half of the greatest amount ; it attains its maximum towards the end of September , remains pretty stationary for about fourteen days , and then begins to fall , at first at a more rapid rate than that with which it rose , but after it has fallen onehalf the decrease is very gradual , and it goes on sinking until the end of May .
The rise continues about 90 days , the falling lasts 250 .
In 1846 , Mougel Bay , the French engineer of the Barrage near Cairo , found the maximum rise 7'20 metres , or 30 feet 10 inches .
When the inundations commence , the Nile is of a reddish colour , and is loaded with sand and mud .
From the fall between the Second Cataract at Wadi Halfa and the First , a distance of 214 miles , being not more on an average than 9 inches in a mile , very little coarse gravel can be transported by the river into Egypt .
The greater portion of the heavier detritus falls down in the higher parts of Upper Egypt , and from the very gentle slope of the Delta , only a small amount of the solid matter suspended in the water can reach the sea ; still , however , the sea has been observed to be turbid at a distance of forty miles from the mouths of the Nile .
The author then proceeds to describe the recent researches .
His first and indispensable step was to procure the aid of a competent person to conduct his projected operations , and he was fortunate in obtaining the active and intelligent aid of an Armenian gentleman , educated and long resident in England , Hekekyan Bay , a civil engineer , who had occupied some important positions in the service of the Viceroy Mehemet Ali , especially as chief of the Polytechnic School in Cairo .
But nothing could be done without the consent of the then Viceroy Abbas Pacha , more especially as the spot the author had selected for his first operations was in a garden of the Pacha .
By the active intervention of Her Majesty 's Consul-General in Egypt , the Honourable Charles Augustus Murray , not only was the Viceroy 's consent obtained , but his Highness was pleased to direct his ministers to place at the disposal of Hekekyan Bay whatever was necessary to conduct the operations in the most complete manner ; and , with truly royal munificence , ordered that the whole expense of them should be defrayed by his Treasury .
The author never contemplated having the means of making these researches on more than a very limited scale , but he had now the prospect , and it has since been realized , of their being conducted on a very enlarged plan .
It has been often a subject of regret that experiments of this nature , of which the French had set an example half a century ago , had not been followed up .
On this subject the author remarks , that the operations are of a nature that scarcely any individual traveller could undertake ; for they require a large body of men , some practised in the art of surveying , and as they can only be carried on continuously after the inundation waters have subsided for some time , and therefore at a season of the year when the heat is excessive , those only inured to the climate could stand the work .
The place selected for commencing the operations was at the Obelisk of Heliopolis , about six miles below Cairo , the oldest known ; erected , according to Lepsius , 2300 years before Christ .
The author having given Hekekyan Bay full and minute directions as to the manner in which the researches were to be carried on , the observations to be made , the plans and reports to be drawn up , and the specimens of soils sunk through to be selected , the operations commenced in June 1851 .
Sixty men were employed under the direction of Hekekyan Bay , assisted by an officer of Artillery , and some young engineers from the Polytechnic School in Cairo .
Nine pits or excavations were sunk at different distances around the obelisk , each down to the level of the filtration water from the Nile at that season , and as much under the surface of that water as was practicable .
The most important of these was one close to the obelisk .
The upper surface of the pedestal on which the obelisk rests , was reached at the depth of 5 feet 6 inches below the surface of the ground , Nile mud being accumulated to that height ; the pedestal was 6 feet 0 inches in height , and it was found resting on two limestone flags , the upper 16 inches , the lower 15 inches in thickness , and this foundation was laid upon pure quartzose sand .
This last was penetrated to the depth of 3 feet 2inches below the lower layer of limestone .
The author gives a section and description of each of the nine excavations .
But before doing so , he states that he obtained twentyeight specimens of soils sunk through in different parts of the Nile Valley , eleven of which were carefully analysed at the Royal College of Chemistry , under the superintendence of Dr. Hofmann .
A collection of specimens , duplicates of which are in the possession of Hekekyan Bay , serve as a standard for the description in his reports of the soils passed through , to avoid the necessity of sending specimens of identical alluvia .
These samples were carefully compared with the specimens analysed , and were found to resemble them closely in external characters .
The results of the analyses are given by the author , and the average of eight specimens of Nile mud gives the following composition in 100 parts : Silica ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
54'585 Sesquioxide of iron ... ... . .
20'215 Sesquioxide of alumina ... ... .
6'418 Alumina ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
5'237 Carbonate of lime ... ... ... .
3'717 Sulphate of lime ... ... ... ... . .
0245 Lime ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1'912 Magnesia ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0'762 Potassa ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-473 Soda ... ... ... ... ... 0-553 Organic matter ... ... ... ... ... 5'701 99-818 In order to ascertain the amount of solid matter held in suspension in the water of the Nile near Cairo , the author described to Dr. Abbott , a resident in that city , the method he had followed in 1832 to determine the amount of solid matter suspended in the water of the Rhine at Bonn , and requested him to undertake the experiment on the same plan , which he did , and the result gave 110'6 grains in an imperial gallon .
The residuum sent was analysed at the Royal College of Chemistry , and yielded very nearly the same result as to composition as the above average analysis of the Nile sediment .
On examining the descriptions of the soils sunk through in the nine excavations at Heliopolis , it appears that they consist of two principal kinds , viz. earths and sands .
The earths vary in colour , but are so nearly allied , passing by such insensible shades into each other , and having so great a resemblance to the modern Nile sediment , that they may all be classed as Nile mud .
The sands are almost entirely pure quartz , similar to those of the adjoining deserts .
In the same horizontal plane , even in this limited space of half a square mile , there is a very considerable difference in the nature of the soil , and in none of the excavations was there an instance of lamination in the deposit .
When it is considered how small is the amount of sediment left annually by the inundations in any one place , it is very difficult to conceive , in the author 's opinion , how there should be in any one spot so great a thickness as 12 feet of one kind of sediment , as is the case in one of the excavations , without any lamination or other sign of successive deposition , and still more inconceivable that in pits within a very short distance of each other different kinds of soil should be found at the same levels .
Other causes than the tranquil deposit from inundation water must have been at work in the formation of this portion of the alluvial land .
The layers of sand were most likely blown across the valley from the desert .
The author deems it advisable to abstain from general remarks , and from all inferences as to the secular increase of the alluvial deposits , until he has had an opportunity of laying before the Society an account of the far more extensive researches made in the district of Memphis in 1852 , and during the last year in a series of pits sunk in a line across the valley of the Nile , extending from the Libyan to the Arabian Chain , in the parallel of Heliopolis .
In the various excavations that have been made in the prosecution of this inquiry , many objects of art of historical interest have been discovered ; but as these do not come within the province of the Royal Society , the author proposes to give an account of them in a memoir to be laid before another learned body .

