473 1887 .
] On a Balanoglossus Larva from the Bahamas .
An electric spark of low tension not capable of igniting the uninduced explosive mixture invariably does so , after the vibrating has been set up .
It is suggested that the tremor sent through the unignited gas synchronised some of the molecular vibrations , so that the molecules capable of reacting perform their translatory movements in some measure together , and that when a focus of inflammation is present more reacting molecules come into the sphere of inflammation in a given time , and therefore the rate of inflammation is more rapid .
XXX .
" Note on Communication entitled 'Preliminary Note on a Balanoglossus Larva from the Bahamas ' ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 42 , p. 146 ) .
" By W. F. R. Weldon , M.A. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received June 16 , 1887 .
In a paper , communicated to the Royal Society in March last , I described a series of Balanoglossus larvse , found by me in the Bahama Islands .
The series extended from a larva with one pair of gill-slits to a form resembling in many ways a normal Tornaria ; but the differences between this larva and the normal European form were so great as to induce me to believe that a process of degeneration was going on , and that the Tornaria-like creature was the oldest , not the youngest , of the series .
On seeing my paper , Professor Spengel , whose researches on Balanoglossus are well known , wrote to me , informing me that I was altogether mistaken in my interpretation of the larvae which I had found , and that my series belonged in fact to the normal order of development .
By the courtesy of Dr. Spengel I have been enabled to inspect his magnificent series of preparations , illustrating the whole life-history of Balanoglossus , and so to become convinced of the truth of his statement ; I now , therefore , take the earliest opportunity of withdrawing my previous statement , and desii*e to express my regret at having placed such an erroneous doctrine on record in the ' Proceedings ' of the Society .
I beg also to thank Dr. Spengel most sincerely for his kindness to me in this matter .

