Numb. 25 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
Monday , May 6 .
1667 .
The Contents .
An Account of an Easier and Safer Way of Transfusing Blood , vid .
by the Veins only .
An Experiment of bleeding a Mangy , into a Sound Dog .
An Extract of a Letter written by a French Philosopher , concerning the same Subject of Transfusion .
Observations touching the Uniting of Barks of Trees cut , to the Tree it self .
An Experiment of making Cherry-Trees , that have withered fruit , to bear good and full fruit .
An Experiment on Aloe Americana Serratifolia weighed ; seeming to infer a Circulation of the Sap in Plants .
An Extract of a Letter , about the Invention of Dividing a Foot into many thousand parts , for Mathematical purposes .
More Ways proposed , for the same purpose .
Observations of the Star called Nebulosa , and of that in the Neck of the Whale .
Extract of a Letter , concerning a New Discovery of the Communication of the Ductus Thoracicus with the Emulgent Vein .
A Description of several sorts of Granaries , as those of London , Dantzick , Muscovy .
Inquiries for Hungary , Transilvania , Egypt , Guiny .
An Account Of an easier and safer Way of Transfusing Blood out of one Animal into another , viz. by the Veins , without opening any Artery of either .
THis Way was first practised ( for ought we know ) by Doctor Edmond King , and the success thereof in two Experiments , communicated by him to the Royal Society , as follows , 1 .
I tooka Calf and a Sheep , both of the larger sort , and having prepared a Jugular Vein in each , I planted my Pipes and Quills , as is usual , both in the Jugular Vein of the Calf ( designed to be the Emittent ) and in that of the Sheep ( intended for the Recipient .
) Then I took out of the Sheep 49 ounces ( Haver de pois weight ) of blood , before any other blood was let in ; about which time , the company concluding the Sheep to be very faint , and finding the blood to run very slowly , I stopped the Vein of the Sheep , and unstopp 'd the Pipe in the Calf , letting run out 10 ounces into a Porringer , which was done in about 40 seconds of a Minute .
Then I conveyed Pipes from the Emittent Calves Vein , into the Recipient Sheeps Vein , and there ran a good free stream of blood for the space of 5 minutes ( though perhaps less swift than the first 10 ounces .
) And not to be deceived in the running , I did often strike with my finger the upper part of the emitting Vein , and thereby easily felt every stroke answered on the Recipient Vein , just like a Pulse .
And now supposing that by this time ( viz. the lapse of 5 minutes ) the Sheep had received as much , if not more blood , than it had lost , we stopped the current of blood from the Calf , and closed also the Vein of the Sheep ; and then having untied her , and set her down in the room , she went about and appeared to have as much strength , as she had before the loss of her own blood .
Then resolving to bleed the Sheep to death , we bound her the second time , and opened the emittent part of the Vein again ; whereupon having bled about 60 ounces , she fell into Convulsions ; and after the loss of about 5 ounces more , she died upon the place : and being dressed by the Butcher , there did not , in all the usual places , appear above 3 ounces of blood ; and the whole Sheep looked of a lovely white ; and the meat of it ( to the taste of those , that eat of it ) was very sweet .
The Sheep being dead , we resolved likewise to see the Calf bleed to death ; but he having bled 10 ounces , and then for the space of 5 minutes more into the Sheep , and rested a good while , the blood by that time began to coagulate in the Vein ; which made me open the Carotid Artery , letting thence run out about 25 ounces of blood , of a very lovely and vivid colour , vastly excelling celling therein the blood of the Vein .
The Calf , when dressed , had , by the information of the Butcher , as little blood as the Sheep ; and we saw him look whiter , than usually they do In the ordinary way of killing .
2 .
I took out 45 ounces and better , of blood , out of the Jugular Vein of a Sheep , of a lesser size than the former ; by which time , the Spectators , as well as my self , found her exceeding faint , and some thought her passed recovery , without a supply of blood .
Then I conveyed blood from the Jugular Vein of a Calf into that of the Sheep , for the space of 7 minutes , when we did believe , by the continuance of a good stream from the Calf , that the Sheep had already received more blood , than she had lost .
Whereupon we set her free , and she had no sooner got her liberty , but seeing a Dog near her ( which was a Spaniel , that had formerly suffered the transmission of Sheeps-blood into him ) she butted with great violence at him three or four times , not appearing at all concerned at what she had endured in the Experiment .
We keep this Sheep alive , she being sent to grass again , and seeming hitherto very strong and lusty .
The Calf was much larger than the Sheep .
We bled the Calf to death , and received from him six Porringers full of blood , after the Sheep had been suppleid , each Porringer containing 111/ 4 ounces of water .
The Sheep lost four of the same measures full of blood ; which being supplied by that of the Calf , we reckon , that the Calf lost 10 such measures in all .

