A paper was read , entitled , " On the Diurnal Temperature of the Earth 's Surface , and the discussion of a simple Formula for ascer ?
taining the same .
" By S. A. Drach , Esq. Communicated by John Lee , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. The author observes , in his introductory remarks , that during a period of twenty-four hours the quantity of calorific rays emitted from the sun , and falling on the exposed atmosphere of the earth , is proportional to one day 's area as swept by the radius vector divided by the square of that radius ; or is proportional to the true angular motion for that day ; which is equivalent to substituting the declinations resulting from the true longitudes for those deduced from the mean ones at mean noons .
On the arrival of the rays at the superior limit of our atmosphere , they undergo refraction , absorption , and difficulty of conduction ; and when arrived at the surface of the earth , they suffer radiation and reflection ; the absorption alone , at a vertical distance , amounting to upwards of one-fourth .
The maximum sensible heat , he proceeds to observe , appears to follow the sun in its diurnal revolution , being similar , in this respect , to the point of maximum tidal height of the oeean ; hence he applies the term thermal esta ?
blishment to the retardation of the effects caused by atmospherical conduction and localities , in the same manner that the term tidal establishment has been employed to denote the local constant by which the astronomical effects on the tides are delayed .
The tables annexed to the paper assume that the degree of the thermometer is proportional to the cosine of the sun 's meridian alti ?
tude , commencing with that on the day of observation , and ending with the altitude thirty days previously .
After explaining the for ?
mation of these tables , and detailing the conclusions derivable from them , the author gives a sketch of the perturbing causes , such as oceanic evaporation , mountain ranges , and other local influences ; he then enters into a discussion of the mathematical expression for the daily heat ; and he concludes with some observations on the theories of temperature and isothermal lines , as affected by the electrical and magnetical conditions of the earth , dependent on its rotation on its axis .
March 10 , 1842 .
SIR JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK , Bart. , V.P. and Treas .
in the Chair .
Cuthbert Wiliiam Johnson , Esq. , and Joseph Toynbee , Esq. , were balloted for , and severally elected into the Society .
The following papers were read , viz. ยง 1 .
" Meteorological Observations , taken in conformity with the Report drawn up by the Committee of Physics , including Meteorology , for the guidance of the Antarctic Expedition ; as also for the fixed Magnetic Observatories , at the Magnetic Observatory , RossBank , Van Diemen 's Land , for July and August 1841 .
" Communicated by the Master-General of the Ordnance .
2 .
" Meteorological Register kept at Port Arthur , Van Diemen 's Land , during the Year 1839 .
" By Deputy Assistant CommissaryGeneral Lempriere .
Communicated by Captain Beaufort , R.N. , F.R.S. 3 .
A paper was in part read , entitled , " Contributions to the Che ?
mical History of the Compounds of Palladium and Platinum .
" By Robert Kane , M.D. , M.R.I.A. Communicated by Francis Bailey , Esq. , V.P.R.S. The Vice-President in the Chair announced that the Council had determined to propose to the Society the ejection of Mr. Wiliiam John Banks , F.R.S.

