]\gt ; of Air , Oxygen , Nitrogen , Argon , .
225 per cent. it bebaves as a metallic conductor in possessing a negative temperature coefficient .
Similar phenomena have been observed by Arrhenius in the cases of moderately dilute solutions of hypophosphorous and phosphoric acids , and explained by him by means of the ionic dissociation hypothesis .
It is pointed out that nitric acid of per cent. would hypothesi contain few , if any , free ions , and therefore the theory old lead to a totally opposite conclusion .
The results of the experiments are also discussed in relation to the th of solution , and the illustrative curves in which ) of ncid are taken as abscissae and the resistances or conductivities in units show points of discontinuity markedly reentages corresponding approximately to the composition required for the hydrates , and ] markedly .
the bydrate urthcr , if the values of and are referred to molecular of water , the minima -alues of the former and he maxima of the lattel occur the cases of , and molecular proportions or , and .
Further evidence , thus added by an method to that already accumulated as to the existence of definite of nitric acid with water .
Finally , it is pointed out that if a is plotted out in which the molecular tions of water are taken as abscissae and the values for as ordinates , { hcre are ascending and descending branches , meeting at the points corrcsponding to the formation of the respective hydrates ; the phenomclla arc compared with those observed )yBakhuisRoozeboom for the solubility curves of hydrates of ferric chloride by Le Chateliel , as also by Heycock and Neville the fi.eezing point of alloys .
" " On Rcfractivitics of Air , Oxygen , Nitrogen , Argon , Hydrog ) , and Helium By Professor WILLIAM RAMSAY , Ph. D. , LL. D. , Sc. D. , , and MORRIS W. TRAVERS , I Sc. Received November lS , \mdash ; Read December 9 , 1897 .
In coursc of a reseal.ch on the ature of helium many measureof its eferred to that of air as unity were made by of an apparatus similar to that described Rayleigh .
* tbc refi.activity of helium is very small it was not found to measure its directly against air ; hence it was hydroge11 , and en was compared with air .
* ' Proceedings , ' , p. 203 .
Prof. W. Ramsay verse .
And as a check on these measurements , the hydrogen was compared with oxygen and subsequently with nitrogen free from .
It was noticed , after some of these experiments had been made , that the refractivity of air could not be accnrately calculated from the given data for oxygen , nitrogen , and ; and it clppeared therefore worth while to examlne more minutely the refractivity of these gases for white light , and to see whether any error could be detected in previous measurements .
Moreover , as physicists perhaps do not always devote sufficient care to the chemical purity of their mate , an additional reason was ished for the inquiry .
Apparatus.\mdash ; It will be seen , on consulting Lord Rayleigh 's paper , that the refractivity meastlred in the following manner:\mdash ; Light from a paraflin lamp passes through a fine slit , cut wibh a razor in tin-foil pasted on glass .
The beam is made parallel by passage through an achromatic plano-convex lens of about 1 foot focal length .
It then divides ; the upper portion passes through air , and , after extraneous light is cut off by passage through two wide slits , it is brought to a by a lens similar to the firsb , and tho bands produced are viewed by a cylindrical lens of very shorl focus .
The lower portion of the beam traverses two tubes , 9 inches long and onequarter of an incl1 in diameter , close together , and closed at each end with plates of optically worked .
Each of these tnbes one of the gases to be examined ; and each is connected with a manometer and a movable reservoir ; so that , on raising or lowermg the reservoir , of the gases can be so adjusted that the interference-bauds formed in the lower half of the field can be accurately bronght into line with the stationary bands in the upper half .
Readings of pressure are taken on Doth manometers at pressures not differing greatly from that of the phere ; then , on lowering the reservoirs , readings on both manometers are taken lower pressures , the bands again made to coincide in position ith the upper fiducial bands .
he ratio of the refractivities is iuversely as the differences of pressure the two gases .
The fiuence of tempcrature does not appear , for the tubes of the manometer lie side by side , and may be regarded as equally affected by iations of temperature .
accuracy of this method varies with the value of the tivity of the gas .
For , if the gas a low refi'activity , then a great differeuce of pressure produces the passage of fewer bands across the field than if it has a hjgh one ; and , as the accuracy of may safely be taken as the -filth of a balld , and as between thirty and forty bands passed the field with such gases as oxygen , nitroge and , the error may be taken in such cases as from 1 to 1 in The tnbes coutaining the gases to be examined were connected Refractivities of Air , Oxygen , Nitrogen , .
227 with a TopJer 's pump ; and before admission of gas each tube was pumped empty , so that in attached Plucker 's tube thel e was escence .
The tubes were then washed out with gases to be admitted , the apparatus again evacuated , and the linal quantity of gas allowed to enter by a description of which is to be found in the ' Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 67 , p. 686 .
Purity of the .
Hydrogen.\mdash ; The hydrogen was made by warming a tube containing hydrogen which had been prepaled by admitting hydrogen made from pure zinc and sulphuric acid iuto contact with spongy palladium .
tube was pumped empty in the cold , and then ] ywal'med ; it was again allowed to cool and again pumped empty .
hydrogell was then lected , passing ] through a tube , filled with phosphoric , into the experimental tube .
Oxygen.\mdash ; The oxygen was prepared by heating a small tube containing assium permanganate ; a Iarge quantit.y of gas was allowed to escape , and a portion was collected finally which served for the iments .
Nitrogen.\mdash ; The nitrogen was prepared from a mixture of ammonium and sodium nitrite , to which a little coppel .
sulphat been added .
The apparatus was exhausted before admission of either of the solutions , and before allowing the solutio1Is to enter bhey boiled , the flasks corked while boiling .
gas was passed over red-hot copper ; the ammonia liberated by the alkalinity of the thus reacted with any oxides of ogeu ossibly p to water .
The gas was collected , after rejection a porlion , in a tube containing oil of vitriol ; it was then t to a fresh tu be , eated with a very strong solution of austic p , and finally admibted.to the apparatus , .
was left standing some in a tube containing sticks of caustic potasl ] , was then admitted to the appatube of phosphoric nental Datn .
gas was compared air and with the othur two .
Air is each case as unity .
Hydro .\mdash ; Hydrogen/ air . . . . . .
Mean . .
0.47:37 oxygen , , . .
, . .
.\mdash ; Oxygen/ air . . . . . .
, , . . .
W. Ramsay and Mr. M. W. Travers .
Oxygen.\mdash ; Oxygen/ hydrogen Mean . .
1.9512 Oxygen/ nitrogcn . . . .
, . .
0.9103 Nitrogen .
, . . .
, . .
oxygen 1 .
, . .
1.0983 To these numbers those for argon must be added .
The gas was pared in the usual manner air ; and before admitting it into the experimental tube it was sparked with oxygen in presence of caustic soda for two days .
The oxygen was removed with phosphorus , and the argon , on its way into the expel'imental tube , passed over phosphorus pentoxide ; a Plucker 's tube was sealed to the tube through which it entered , so its spectrum might be observed .
It contained no visible trace of eibher hydrogen or nitrogen .
Argon.\mdash ; Argon/ air. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mean . .
, , . .
nitrogen . .
0.9416 0.9419 Placing air in each case equaI to unity , and calculating the refractivities of the other gases , we obtain the following table:\mdash ; ivities of Gases , Air equal to Unity .
Through comparedDirectly .
Hydrogen . . . .
04737 04727 Oxygen. . . . . .
09247 09237 ArgonNitrogen ... . .
Carbon dioxide Refractivities of Air , Oxygen , , Argon , .
229 It will be seeu on inspecting the above table that the numbers obtained indirectly are in close agreement with those obtained by direct comparison with air .
the value found directlyby for , viz. , the value found by him for nitrogen ( atmospheric ) was , giving for nitrogen , on the basis air to unity , the number .
Nascart did not determine the valuo for oxygen , but culated it from the a ) data and bhe known composition of air .
Nor did determine the value for nitrogen ; but taking bis for oxygell , viz. , and for air 000291 , deduced it , as Mascart had done for oxygen .
So that we have no determination of the three constants , or their comparison , by any one since Dulong in 1826 .
It has been taritly assumed that the refractive index for a mixture of gases is of those of consituents , taken in the proporbion in which they occur .
We have in a means of verifying this assumption , which is well known not to hold for compound gases , mixtures of liquids , even though of density be taken into consideration .
Dulong gives very careful accounts of the methods he used in preparing the samples of gas that he employed .
Oxygen , to which ] he ascl'ibed the efractivity 0 , was obtained by heating potassium chlorate .
His is identical with ours .
was prepared from by the oxygen with phosphorus , first at a high and theli in the cold .
It was then washed with a solution of , and afterwal.ds with .
Tt is difficult to to bo illed 1 washing with chlorine water , unless it was the of 11ydrogen .
The number hc obtained was .
han that which we found .
Dulong also determined fho tctivity of air , and allowing for that of the small percentage of carbon dioxide , it is precisely mean of that of its in the propol.tion in which they are present .
to the csults of Mascart and Lorenz , have the lineb : \mdash ; Air .
Nitrogcn .
Oxygcn .
llcso d of ttnd Lorenz it is possible to calculafe the refracti of air : \mdash ; There ; reason to doubt purity of Lorenz 's oxygen .
He * The ersions these arc so small as not to affcct ratios of these .
' vol. 31 , p. 1 Prof. W. Ramsay and Mr. M. W. Travers .
mercuric oxide , of which he does not give the method of preparation it may have contained oxides of nitrogen ; and for some reason not explaiued , he passed the gas through a vacuous porcelain tube , sumably red-bot , which , as recent experiments of Messrs. Bone Jerdan have shown , not impervious to furnace gases .
on the other hand , who , as already remarked , prepared his oxygen from chlorate , obtained the number for white light , coincident with our determinations .
The refractive index of air , calculated from our determinations Oxygen . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ogen Argon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
and the densities of the constituent gases , gives the oWing lumbers : \mdash ; sometimes find the of oxygen in air to be about , or eveIl 2 .
This would hardly a.ffecb the result ; with cent. of oxygen the calculated refractivity is , instead of There can be no doubt as to the refractivity of oxygen from our ratios , as well as from DuIong 's determinations .
The question is as regal'ds nitrogen .
It would require the refractivity of nitrogen to be , a number greatly above any of our values , in order that the of the refracbivities of oxygen , nitrogen , and argon should equal 100 .
The presence of argon would also make an almost inappreciable difference .
Mascart 's determination of the refractivity of atmospheric nitrogen to be correct , that of pure rogen would be , instead of .
And an error in the refractivity of argoIl would also not affect the resuIt , inasmuch as the total amount of argon is so small .
We are thus driven to conclude that the refractivity of the mixture , air , is somewhat less than that of sum of the refractivities of its constituents , taksn in the proportion in which they occur .
It appeared advisable to try other mixtures ; and a mixture of hydrogen and helium was first selected , because these are both very " " perfect\ldquo ; gases , inasmuch as their critical points ] very low .
It to be expected if a difference betweell calculated and found alues should exist , it should be of the inverse character to that of a * ' Chem. Soc. Trans 1897 , p. 42 .
Argon , 'Phil .
Trans , 1895 , p. 202 , foot-note .
Refractivities of Air .
O.vygm , itrogen , rgon , .
231 mixture of oxygen and nitrogen , for they ars two somewhat " " imperfect\ldquo ; gases .
The result has borne out this idea .
A mixture was made of .
of hydrogen and of .
of helium free from argon , and of the density ; and with the refractivity of the mixbnre thoss of hydrogen and helium were compared .
Taking the refractivity of the mixture as unity , the following ratios were found:-mixture Heliunllmixture The calculated values are\mdash ; Mean . .
1.5957 0 . . .
Here the calculated value of the activity of the mixture is .3 per cent. highel than the found value , while with air the calculated valne is per cent. too low .
A third was made , in which ths " " artificial air\ldquo ; was a of .
of cclrbon dioxide with .
of oxygen , supposed to be at and 760 mm. Again , taking the efractivity of mixturc as unity we found the following ratios:\mdash ; Carl ) dioxide/ mixture . . . . . . .
The calculated values are:\mdash ; Herc , as with air , the total refractivity found is less than that ulated .
It is true the difference is not great , but are perit is real , for it considerably exceeds the error of our ations .
is bett , ered if Lorentz and Lorenz 's formula be substituted for Gladstone and Dalc 's .
Using their formula , ?
the c:t.lculated result is per cent. of that found for air .
fficicnb of compressibility of ogen is too small , while { hat of othel gasos , as oxygen and , is too .
The Mr. .
J. Bless .
On the Openings in the V effect of mixing equal volumes of hydrogen and helium , each of which has too large a coefficient of elasticity , is to cause each to occupy twice the volume that they previously occupied , and to halve approximately the pressure each .
The pressure is therefore lower than it would bs for an absolutcly ideal gas , for each gas , hydrogen and helium .
The sum of these pressures will accordingly be too low , or transposing , the sum of the volumes will be too great .
The opposite argument holds for air .
Now , in considering volumes we deal not merely with the -volume , i.e. , the space occupied by the molecules , but also with the inter .
stitial space inhabited by ths molecuIes .
But the refractive power , if Clausius 's deduction from the formula of Lorenz and Lorentz is correct , is a function of the diclectric constant , and hence of the -volumes of the gases .
And here discrepancy is more easily detected than by any determination of density .
It must therefore be concluded that gases not , as postulated by Dalton , indifferent to one another 's presence , bnt that they modify one another 's properties in the same manner as do liquids , though to a different extent .
This mutual action at high pressures and small volumes modifies even the volume relations , as recently shown by Dr. Kuenen .
And it must persist at low prcssures and large ] umes , though it may not always be possible to make measurements of pressure and volume accurate enough to lead to its detection .
The refractivity , however , seems to be a means delicate enough to be used for this purpose .
On the Openings in the Wall of the Body-cavity of Vertebrates By DWARD J. BLLS , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , King 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. HANS GADOW , F.R.S. Received June \mdash ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
In the review of the vertebrates held in the following pages , I have put together as many facts as I could on the distribution of abdominal pores in the various groups , and side by side with this evidence I have arraIlged the available facts recorded by others , and observed by myseIf , on the ribution of nephrostomes other openings on the wall of the abdominal cavity .
By so doing , the physiological meaning of the abdomiual pores has , I believe , been elucidated through the evideIIce of a correlation , speaking generally , of an alternative character , between these two sets of ol.gans .
It will further appear that in most of the higher verteb \mdash ; where pores do not occur and nephrostomes disappear early in development or Iose heir original con1lection with the reoal ducts - body-cavity has taken upon itself a different function character .
Instead of acting as anxiliary to the excretory , it takes part in the internal work of the circulato lymphatic system .

