A paper was read , entitled " A few Remarks on Currents in the Arctic Seas .
" By P. C. Sutherland , M.D. Communicated by Colonel Sykes , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 16 , 1853 .
The author states that , during a voyage lately made in the Arctic seas , his attention was arrested by the power exerted by refrigeration and congelation in separating from water any saline ingredients it may contain , and of thus causing disturbances in the mean density of the waters of the ocean , which , after being influenced by currents , can be overcome only by subsequent intermixture with water from other localities where the disturbance in the equilibrium is of an opposite character .
He considers that evaporation , which is so active within the tropical and temperate zones , obviously renders the sea more dense by depressing its surface , and thus gives rise to the necessity for currents from the two poles of the earth , where deposition of vapour predominates to a considerable extent over evaporation .
This he illustrates by referring to the constant current from the Atlantic into the Mediterranean , caused by the evaporation in this sea preponderating over the supply of fresh-water .
He then points out the necessity also of a current out of this sea , in order that its waters , by the constant influx of saline matters , may not become a saturated solution of the salts of the ocean ; and infers that counter-currents into the polar seas must also exist to obviate the contrary tendency which the waters of these seas have to become fresh .
He calls attention to the importance of ascertaining the differences that occur in many parts of the surface of the ocean in respect to its saline contents , that we may be enabled to determine to what extent the currents and counter-currents may be influenced by the comparative freshness of the iced water of the northern and southern regions , and the necessary saltness of the equatorial and other overheated basins .
On this point , with respect to the Arctic seas , he refers to observations by Dr. Scoresby , Sir Edward Parry , and those recorded in tables appended to this paper , which have been extracted from the Meteorological Journal kept in the North Atlantic and Davis 's Straits during the late voyage in the Isabel .
The author next refers to the remarkable difference occurring in the climate of the east and west sides of Davis 's Straits , that of the latter being much the colder .
In the absence of thermometric registers for the west , to compare with those on the east side , he points out how the appearance of the land and development of plants and land animals on the two coasts enable us to determine which has the warmer climate .
Looking from the top of Baffin 's Bay , which commands a good view of both shores , the east side at the sea-coast has many portions of land free from snow , whereas the opposite , by its snowy and icy covering , presents an appearance altogether uncongenial .
On the former are found a tolerably abundant flora , hares and deer ; on the latter , there scarce appears to be a spot to receive the roots of plants or the feet of these animals ; and in the productions of the sea , both vegetable and animal , the same disproportion is met with .
Upon the whole , he considers complete the analogy that exists between the North Atlantic and Davis 's Straits , both with respect to the climate of their shores and to their inhabitants of the animal and vegetable kingdoms .
With reference to the question how this analogy is brought about , the authorconsiders it difficult to decide whether the incretse in the temperature of the water and the consequent improvement of the climate , on the east side of the strait , arise from the disposition the ice has to leave the coast , by which means the water becomes exposed to the influence of the sun ; or from currents of heated water from a more southern region .
He further remarks that its density here cannot be restored , if once disturbed , without admixture with a large volume of water somewhat above the mean density .
Again referring to the observations of Sir Edward Parry and those recorded in the tables , the author remarks that from these it will be seen that refrigeration has the effect of precipitating the salts of seawater ; and further , that it appears to him very probable that the temperature at .
which water begins to expand by the continued application of cold is that at which saline and earthy matter begins to be precipitated in solutions of the density of sea-water , From the immense depth to which icebergs extend in Davis 's Straits , and also from their vast number , the author infers that the temperature of the water will be kept pretty uniformly the same throughout a considerable part of its depth , rarely exceeding + 32 ?
, except at the surface , where the action of the sun comes into operation , in which case the water of greatest density from saline contents would always occupy the lowest position .
In .
illustration of his views , he describes experiments on the freezing of sea-water of the density 1t'025 , in glass tubes ; and from these he infers that , not only does congelation precipitate the saline matter in water , but refrigeration also at temperatures from 40 ?
down to 32 ? .
With reference to the influence of the density of the sea-water on currents , he remarks that after the warm season has fairly set in , in the Arctic seas , nothing is more commnron than to observe the surface-water , in hollowed out lanes or fissures of the land-ice , moving slowly towards the open water at the edge of the fixed ice ; and this seaward motion is altogether independent of tidal motion or oceanic current , depending entirely upon the diminished density of the surface-water .
In conclusion .
, the author states that he does not know that we are yet in a position to demonstrate the actual existence of currents into the icy seas , as well asout of them ; but that the necessity for them is obvious .
It is not necessary , he remarks , that these currents , as in other parts , should occupy the surface , and probably also the bottom of one of the sides of the basins whose waters require to be renewed , ; as the Gulf-stream occupies the east side of the North Atlaitic .
It is plain that the cold and hot waters of two regions can be exchanged by the latter passing underneath the former ; and although the arctic earrent from the Greenland sea does not : contain much ice to the southward of .
GCape Farewell , it is more than probable its chilly waters pass over a fork of the Gutlf-stream , which ultimatelysweeps along the shores of West Greenland .

