]\gt ; Light ttered by Gases : its Polarisabion and lntensity .
155 It is easy to see directly that lies between the coefficients of in the expansions of and so that The function has very remarkable properties .
It is an integral function of , whose maximum modulus is less than a constant multiple of .
It is equal to , an integer , when , a positiye integer ; and to zero when But we must reserve the discussion of these peculiarities for some other occasion .
The Light Scattered by Gases : its Polarisation and Intensity .
By the Hon. R. J. STRUTT , ] , Professor of Physics , Imperial South Kensington .
( Received July 5 , 1918 .
) [ PLATE 2 .
] S1 .
xamination of the Scattered liight for ompleteness of Polarisation .
The present investigation is a development in various directions of that described in ' Proc. Roy .
Soc , vol. 94 , p. 453 ( 1918 ) .
It is there shown that the light scattered by air and other gases in the direction perpendicular to the beam is almost completely polarised .
It is of importance to determine whether or not the polarisation of the scattered light at right angles to the beam is absolutely complete .
Sky is by no means completely polarised , but in that case the incident is not all in one direction : for , besides direct sunlight , light from other parts of the sky and from the earth 's surface contributes to the scattering from any given element of volume .
The question is whether , apart from these complications , the polarisation would be complete .
This cannot be decided by observations on the sky , but the laboratory methods now described allow of its investigation , not only in air , but in other gases also .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The Light Scattered by The simple theory according to which the polarisation should be complete* assumes a spherical form for the molecules , that is to say , it is assume that , however the molecule may be turned with reference to the direction of vibration in the primary beam , the result will be the same , and the vibration induced will be wholly in that direction .
Any departure from complete polarisation would indicate that the molecule had certain preferential directions of vibration .
The extreme case would be that in which the molecule could only vibrate in one direction fixed within it .
S2 .
Experimental Arranyements for mining Polarisation .
same vessel was used as before .
cit with slight modifications .
It consists of a cross of brass tubing , inch inside diameter , blackened within I fig. 1 ) .
The beam passes along the arms , and is photographed laterally FIG. 1 .
through D. forms a black background .
Its end is closed by a blackened brass disc cemented on so as to be readily removed when necessary .
* Lord Rayleigh , ' Phil Mag XLI , p. 107 ( 1871 ) ; 'Collected Works , ' vol. 1 , p. 87 .
: its Potarisation and Intensity .
The arm was diaphragmed at three points , the diameter of the successive circular diaphragms increasing outwards .
By this device , light scattered by the walls of the vessel ( as seen in the photographs accompanying my former paper ) was nearly eliminated , the only remnant being in the form of thin concentric rings round the images .
This light is scattered by the edges of the various diaphragms , and cannot well be avoided .
It was too little to give rise to halation or other trouble .
The outermost rin visible round one was well clear of the other image when the double-image prism was used .
The beam was photographed stretching across the circular field of view defined by the inner diaphragm .
To be sure that there was no light coming from the background , it was advisable so to diaphragm the primary beam at that it did not cover circular field ( fig. 1 , K ) , but left a clear segment above and below ( fig. 1 , H ) .
On the other hand , it is not desirable to have the image of the beam too narrow , for this makes determinations of intensity difficult .
To secure both results with the size of apparatus used , involved a rather difficult compromise , which would be eased with a larger vessel .
Most of the experiments were nJade with a diaphragm at inch square , and with the innermost circuJar , definin the field , a little larger than that illustrated , and rather largel ' than desirable .
In working with helium , when from the feeble intensity looked it was considered specially important to avoid stray light , the diaphragm at was inch high and 12 inch broad , and the circular limiting the field was inch diameter .
The end ( fig. 1 ) of the vessel was closed with a glass window smoked on the inside .
The layer of soot prevented any harmful reflection , and was transparent to show a patch of light where the beam struck it .
This patch could be watched in a mirror suitably placed , and was kept central by moving the screw adjustments of the arc from time to time , so as to compensate the inevitable wandering of the source .
Since the beam was defined by a central diaphragm , and left the tube centrally , its axial position in the tube was secured .
The vessel itself was of accurate construction , the angle of the cross not differing from a right angle by more than a small fraction of a degree .
Thus , if the centre of the photographic lens lay on the axis of the tube , the axis of the secondary beam was necessarily perpendicular to the axis of the primary beam .
Since the effect to be looked for was small , it was desirable to make the primary beam as intense as possible .
Sunlight would be better than anything else , but , for the long hours of work required , its use was judged hardly practicable in London .
An electric arc with ' kinarko\ldquo ; kinematograph carbons* was used .
These carbons give great intrinsic brightness .
* Obtained from the General Electric Company .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The Light ttered by The cored poSiGiye , charged with a special preparation , was 18 mm. diameter , was horizontal presented end-on to the condenser .
The copper-cored negative carbon , nearly vertical , was 10 mm. in diameter .
The current was about 25 amperes , and the lamp was a hand-fed one .
The condenser generally used was a plano-convex spectacle lens of 4 inches focus .
To adjust the beam for parallelism , the arc was focussed on a distant screen .
Measuring the diameter of the image and distance of the screen , it was found that the extreme rays diverged about from the axis of the beam .
Taking the intrinsic brightness of the arc and the cross-section of the beam as iven , the beam could only be made brighter by further sacrifice of parallelism , and this was inadmissible for the purpose in view .
The beam could have been increased two or three times in diameter , without making the aperture of the condenser unduly large for its focal length , and , if the work were to be repeated , I would recommend a larger vessel , which would allow of this .
A Dallmeyer kinematograph lens was used , of 3 inches focus , working at .
This , it is believed , is the most rapid lens commercially obtainable .
The simple lens shown in is , of course , only diagrammatic .
The double-image prism used was of Iceland spar achromatised with glass , the latter being towards the lens .
It was large enough to utilise the full aperture of the lens .
The lens was about 24 inches from , and was placed accurately co-axial with the tube .
The path of the was entirely covered in , so as to avoid stray light from room during long exposures .
The image formed by the vibrations parallel to the exciting beam is in most cases so faint as to be beyond visual detection with the size of vessel used .
It is necessary to use photographic methods to compare its intensity with that of the comparatively image formed by the perpendicular vibrations .
In preliminary experiments these images were photographed , and their intensities referred to a scale of graduated exposure strips made with an independent source of light on the same plate .
This method was soon found unsatisfactory , because the fainter image was ( with reasonable exposure ) often so weak that prolonged development was necessary to make the most of it , and the general fog resulting from this development was not uniform over the plate , being enerally stronger at the edges .
In this way serious errors were introduced in referring the Saint image to the Saint exposure strips , and the results of successive determinations were not in satisfactory agreement .
Possibly these difficulties might be overcome but an alternative method was preferred .
Gases : its Polarisation Intensity .
A photographic plate was exposed in successive strips to light of increasing intensity , and developed .
In this way a scale of graduated opacities was produced , of approximately neutral tint .
From the remainder of the plate the film was scraped away , clear glass .
This opacity scale was put over the plate to be exposed for an experiment , and was so arranged that the light forming the strong image had to pass through the opacity , while the light the weak one passed through clear glass .
A series of exposures was made , moving the dark slide along , and , on development , it could be found which opacity approximately equalised the intensities .
There were five opacities on the plate chiefly used , and , by interpolation , half-way positions could be recognised , so that an arbitrary scale of , say , nine steps was thus obtained .
The degree of polarisation by any gas that was under investigation could be referred to this scale , and thus the various gases could be in order in a list , higher position in the list indicating more complete polarisation of the scattered The proper position of a gas on the scale could be determined fairly well simple inspection of the phtraphs , but , for greater certainty , a photometric comparison of the of of the plate in the two images was usually made , following the methods devised by Sir William Abney .
* When , however , tlJe images were very Saint , as in the case of hydrogen , simple inspection gave as good or better results .
Whether the position of equality is to be assigned to one of the actual steps of the scale , or to a position half-way between two steps , involves some element of guesswork .
But , with the photonletric comparisons , the uncertainty on this point is reduced to narrow limits .
It was not enough , however , to arrange the gases in order .
It was desirable to determine actually the ratio of the component intensities parallel and to the beam .
For this purpose the arbitrary scale of opacities had to be calibrated\mdash ; i.e. , the actual percentage diminution of photographically active light by each of the opacities had to be determined .
To do this , a convex lens of 5 inches focal length was cut with a diamond into two ( unequal ) parts , which were separated about inch and fixed in a camera , with the dividing line horizontal .
The larger part had a permanent rectangular diaphragm fixed over it .
The smaller part could be at pleasure with circular holes of various sizes .
Sometimes two holes were used sids by side .
A rectangular source of light was arranged by in a suitable aperture in a card with round * See 'Instruction in Photography , ' lltb ed. , p. 180 .
I have been allowed the use of Sir William Abney 's own appat.atus with a calibrated wedge set up at the Imperial College .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The Lvght Scattered by glass , and backing it by an incandescent lamp with obscur'ed globe .
This was photographed , through a blue screen , on a plate with the opacit to be calibrated over it .
The strong image from the larger part of the lens was reduced by the opacity .
The other traversed clear glass .
Having chosen a diaphragm , a series of photographs was taken , one with each opacity .
On development it could be at what point on the scale of opacities the images were equally dense .
The ratio of the apertures used then gave the absorption at this point of the scale .
A series of photographs taken in this way with various diaphragms allowed the entire series of opacities to be calibrated .
It will be observed that the opacities were calibrated as nearly as possible under similar conditions to those in which they were afterwards to be used , the divided lens imitating the action of the double-image prism .
It was thought possible that an error be introduced , owing to the light used in the calibration not having exactly the same spectroscopic quality as the scattered light to be afterwards investigated .
Such an error would arise if the opacities were not quite neutral in tint over the spectral range concerned .
To test this , the calibration was repeated in some cases by light scattered laterally from ether vapour with the divided lens .
The results did not differ measurably from those obtained with an incandescent lamp and blue filter , and the latter method is much less tedious .
The work was begun without knowing at all within what range the results would fall .
Consequently the series of opacities used at first did not prove wholly adequate , and had to be supplemented .
It will be enough , as an illustration , to quote the calibration of the opacity plate chiefly used Ths scale of opacities is numbered 1 to 5 , nning at the least dense The larger aperture was kept constant at sq .
inch .
The smaller one was varied , and its value is quoted as a percentage of the larger one .
Smoothing these results , the following values were adopted for This proved suitable for much of the work , but more stages are its required between 1 and 2 , and a further extension above 5 was needed in one case , and below 1 in another case .
Supplementary opaoity plates calibrated in the same way provided for these requirements , but it is scarcely necessary to quote details .
It was necessary to adjust the prism so that the planes of vibration in the images were respectively parallel and perpendicular to the length of the primary beam .
This adjustment does not need very great precision , since it is which is concerned , if is the angular error .
lf the primary beam were perfectly parallel , and the prism were ( for instance ) out of adjustment , something less than one-third of 1 per cent. of the light which should ) in the strong image would go into the weak one .
The same considerations show that the extreme divergence of in the primary beam is not important .
The adjustment was made by trial , taking successive photographs of the light scattered by ether vapour in various positions of the double-image prism .
Within an angular range of about the weak image was sensibly a minimum .
The prism was finally set in the middle of this range , halfway between the positions where a distinct increase in the Saint image began to be ected .
In this position the line joining the two images of the beam was to the axis of the beam , as could be satisfactorily verified when the was enlarged by projection .
This is as it should be , assun ) the double-image prism to have its parallel or perpendicular to the axis of the crystal .
It is believed that the setting of the prism as finally adjusted was not more than a degree out of the correct position .
These preliminary photographs with ether vapour showed that the weaker could not be extinguished in any orientation of the double-image prism .
Naturally a good deal of consideration was necessary before this result could be accepted as proving any real defect of polarisation in the scattered light .
The apparatus was exhausted and washed out repeatedly with ether vapour without altering the result .
As a test of the optical system metal plate , fig. 1 , was removed , and light from a rectangular source ( ground glass backed by flame ) polarised by a nicol was sent through the tube .
A real image of the source was formed at ( fig. 1 ) by means of a lens , and this image was photographed through the window and double-image prism and photographic lens , as set up the experiments .
When the nicol was suitably turned , perfect extinction of the faint image was obtained .
This test shows that the apparently incomplete polarisation of the scattered was not due to birefringence of the glass window , or defective action of the double-image prism .
* If such be possible .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The Light by Finally the question arises whether the scattered rays utilised to form the were nearly at less to the primary beam .
Since the latter was coaxial with one arm of the accurate -shaped vessel , the raphic lens only to be arranged coaxial with the other arm .
With the opaque back plate , fig. 1 , removed , there was no difficulty in doing this with an error of less than .
The semi-aperture of the photoyraphic lens subtended an angle of about at G. Thus the divergence of the Ildary beam is unimportant ; for again it is the square of the small that enters .
The simplest proof , however , that the faint is genuinely due to imperfect polarisation of scattered light in the rectangular direction is found in the fact that its intensity relative to the bright image has a definite value for each gas , .
ing widely for different gases .
One gas ( pentane vapour ) polarises distinctly more perfectly than any of the others examined .
I believe that even in t , his latter case the residual effect found is not seriously in error .
But , at all events , it is clear that the effects several times la'rger found in most other cases cannot be explained by systematic error , when all adjustments were untouched .
In no has a value for the relative intensities of the two component vibrations been accepted on the strength of a single series of exposures .
At least two concordant series of determinations have always been obtained , and usually three or four .
No serious anomalies or discrepancies have presented themselves , except in cases where there was reason to suspect that a fog had been produced by the action of light on the gas , as in Tyndall 's well-known experiments .
* C. T. R. Wilson has shown that ultra-violet light is peculiarly active in this respect , and hence a cell containing sul- phated quinine was interposed in the path of the incident beam when easily decomposable gases were under investigation .
A further precaution was to renew the gas after each individual exposure along the scale of opac.ities , and to reduce the exposure to the minimum for a distinct result .
No perfectly definite criterion was found to determine whether any incipient fog had been produced .
Usually if a occurrerl at all , it quickly became very dense , and increased the scattered to a large multiple of that due to the gaseous molecules originally present .
There seemed to be a curious caprice as to whether or not the fog would form with a given time of exposure .
If it did , the fact was usually at once apparent on develop'Phil .
Trans. vol. 160 , p. 333 ( 1870 ) .
Phil. Trans , vol. 192 , p. 412 ( 1899 ) .
Removal of ultra-violet rays by quinine was not found measm.ably to alter the value of the scale of opacities used in examining the scattered light .
: its Polarisation Intensity .
meant of the plate , by the anomalous and extreme density of the concerned , by its failure to fit into a harmonious series with its neighbours , and often by non-uniform , streaky structure .
By the precautions mentioned and by repetition , it was possible to arrive at a satisfactory certainty in the case of some of the decomposable gases such as carbon disulphide and cyanogen .
Sulphur dioxide decomposed so easily as to defeat all , attempts .
On the other hand , many of the more stable gnses investigated , such as oxygen , nitrogen , nitrous oxide , or ethP , vapour , never the smallest tendency to develop a cloud under the influence of .
In the list of results , ases marked showed a slight tendency to form a cloud , and those marked showed a strong tenden cy to do so .
The remainder showed no such tendency .
* In most cases it has not been thought necessary to give great consideration to the question of chemical purity .
There is no adyantage in avoiding impurities unless they are adequate in amount to produce a measurable effect : and in most oases it was not judged likely that this would be so , considering the limited accuracy attainable in the photometric work .
For instance , the ( for which I am indebted to the kindness of Mr. Murray , of the British Oxygen Company ) contained , according to a rough analysis which I made , about 10 per cent. of nitrogen .
It would certainly not have been worth the trouble to remove this , for the measurements are not accurate enough to determine whether ) or polarises more perfectly .
In general , it will suffice to mention ) the best material was used that could readily ) obtained .
The gases were dried with phosphorus pentoxide , and filtered cotton-wool to remove dust .
The vapours were taken off from their liquids , and were dust-free without need of filtration .
Usually the pressure was allowed to rise to near saturation , so as as much light as possible .
After each experiment the apparatus was exhausted to about 1 mm. by a Gaede box-pump ; and , when a vapour had been used which was hable to condense 110 some extent on the walls , a current of filtered air was drawn through for some time to remove it before the next experiment .
Particular care was taken to remove everything else before experimenting with hydrogen and helium , which scatter very little light compared with some of the vapours investigated .
The case of helium , indeed , required very special care .
As was to be expected from its low refractivity , it scattered very little light , probal ) about part of that scattered by air .
Moreover , as the event proved , * In the case of hydrogen , no cloud was apparently formed at the time of illumination , but it seemed to develop some hours afterwards , and was often conspicuous the next day .
The point would be worth investigation .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Lnght ttered by it differed very much from other gases as to the ratio in which its scattered light was divided between the two polarisations .
It could be calculat that a contamination with part of air or carbon dioxide would produce an error of importance .
The helium used was prepared by heating fergusonite .
The crude gas was passed over red-hot copper oxide , to remove hydrogen , carbon dioxide being used to wash out the tubes , etc. , so as to avoid loss of gas .
The carbon dioxide was eliminated by collecting the gas over caustic soda solution , with which it was subsequently shaken .
Finally the gas was very slowly admitted to the apparatus , first through a tube filled with charcoal at liquid air temperatures , then through a cotton-wool filter .
An apparatus like that used , made of metal , and coated inside with blacking , inevitably gives off gas on standing .
In the hope of keeping the helium pure , a second cooled charcoal annexe was in communication with the vessel throughout the experiments , the connection being short , and inch wide at the narrowest part .
This expedient , which succeeds admirably at low pressures , is not , of course , so ) yood at atmospheric pressure , when diffusion is much slower .
It was , however , given every chance , as the purification was kept going 24 hours before the exposures were begun .
As a check on purity , a discharge tube having wire electrodes 7 inches apart was in permanent connectlon with the apparatus .
It was found that this allowed the discharge to pass about as easily as inch length of air at the same ( atmosphex.ic ) pressure .
The great spark-length in helium , discovered by Collie and Ramsay , most characteristic of this gas , and is lost if is not reasonably pure .
The test served to show that no serious leakage had occurred .
The exposure times for the rent gases varied from 1 minute ( carbon disulphide ) up to 4 hours or more ( hydrogen and helium ) .
Rapid plates were used .
In giving results , it would be tedious to quote details of experimental evidence in each case .
Ihere is as already explained a htly arbitrary element in the final interpolation between the successive steps of the opacity scale used .
And when any slight discrepancy appeared between separate determinations more weight was given to the denser photographs .
As an illustrative example , the case of oxygen may be taken .
opacity plate already described was used .
The negative was measured on Abney 's photometer , with the following setting of the circular photometric * .
Soc. Proc vol. , p. 257 ( 1896 ) .
The tedium of making numerous long exposures naturally tended to reduce the exposure to the least that would give a distinct result .
Gases : its Polarisation Intensity .
wedge ( degrees ) .
Each measurement is the mean of three .
Measurements are only recorded for those images which were on either side of the neutral point .
egative.cityc e The evidence of these negatives shows that equality would be obtained with an opacity about half-way between Nos. 2 and 3 .
The calibration values for these were respectively and per cent. ( see above ) .
Thus the value adopted for oxygen was 6 per cent. Sample photographs are shown on the plate ( Nos. 1 and 2 ) .
The opacities used were those above mentioned .
The arrows show the approximate position of equality in the two cases , ether and nitrous oxide , which are near opposite ends of the opacity scale used .
S3 .
on Polarisation , ?
oith Discussion .
It appears , then , that none of the gases examined show complete polarisation of the scattered light ; accordingly , none of the molecules behave like the ideal spherical particle to which the simple theory would apply , though in most cases there is a fair approximation to this behaviour .
Modern views of the atom as a structure of electrons Muld not , indeed , lead us to expect it to behave as if possessing spherical symmetry , even apart from the complication introduced when atoms are grouped together to form molecules .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The Scattered by The experimental results quoted do not suggest any simple generalisation .
It will be observed that the gas which polarises most perfectly is pentane vapour , which according to the conventional representation , has the structural formula written HHH There is nothing about this representation to suggest that such a molecule should behave optically more like a sphere than the monatomic gases argon and helium .
Evidently , nothing can be made out on these lines .
Yet the experiments prove that chemical constitution is materially concerned .
This appears very clearly in the case of nitrous oxide .
For this gas gives 14 per cent. for the ratio of intensities , whereas nitrogen gives 3 per cent. and oxygen 6 per cent. The most interesting result , however , is that obtained with helium .
This gas stands at the extreme end of the scale in many of its properties , and so in this instance .
The ratio found from the experiments was 42 per cent. The experimental difficulties of an exact determination are , however , very great in this instance , and for two reasons : the feebleness of the light , and the extreme sensitiveness to impurities which necessarily results from the abnormal behaviour of helium .
As regards light , helium probably scatters about oneseventieth part of the total light scattered by air , and , in fact , the scattered light was too feeble for visual detection under the conditions used .
The relatively large intensity of the weaker component was a considerable mitigation of this difficulty .
* It is difficult to be certain that adequate purity has been attained .
It can be calculated that , if the true ratio for helium were 50 per cent. , then the admission of , mm. of air to the helium at 760 mm. would reduce the ratio to 43 per cent. , about the observed value .
With the charcoal purification continually at work , contamination to this extent scarcely seems probable .
But parts of the blackened metal work became hot under the beam , and the behaviour of the electric discharge test suggested that appreciable amounts of gas were given off when the arc was started .
Taking In the experiments with helium , for greater brightness I allowed myself the use of a condenser of 2 focus instead of the 4 inches usually employed .
The beam was therefore less strictly parallel .
Test experiments with au showed that definitely appreciable error was introduced in that instance , the usual value of about 4 per cent. being obtained .
Hence there can be no objection to the use of the 2-inch condenser with helium , for which accurate parallelism is less essential .
: its Intensity .
this uncertainty and the possible photometric errors into account , I cannot feel sure that a value of 50 per cent. is excluded .
Very special interest attaches to the case when the weak component has half the intensity of the strong one .
For this to be expected if the direction of vibration in the molecule is limited strictly to a straight line fixed within it .
The molecule may be said to behave like a thin rod or needle , the autithesis of the sphere for which the weak component vanishes .
The case is included in the ooeneral treatment given by Lord Rayleigh for particles of arbitrary shape.* It seems worth while , however , to give an independent calculation adapted more directly to the form of experiment here described , in which the primary beam is unpolarised .
The molecules taken to be oriented in all directions , and th problem is to compare the intensities of the vibration due to the assemblage , when resolved perpendicular and parallel to the incident beam .
Let the arrow represent the direction of the unpolarised incident light , and consider first a molecule so oriented that the direction of vibration fixed within it is perpendicular both to the incident light and to the line of observation .
( The latter is perpendicular to the plane of the diagram .
) Let be the amplitude due to such a molecule .
If the molecule is at an angle to this position , and remains in the plane of the diagram , then the vibration along the molecule is a Resolved by the double-image prism the component parallel to the beam is a and perpendicular to the beam If the molecule is not in the plane of the diagram , but inclined at an angle from it , then the amplitudes are respectively Perpendicular to beam . .
a Parallel to beama and the intensities Perpendicular to beam . .
Parallel to beam ' Phil. Mag , vol. 35 , p. 273 ( 1918 ) .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The Light Scattered by Averaging for all values of , we get Perpendicular to beam Parallel to beam It remains to for all values of .
Let there be molecules whose poles are distributed uniformly over the sphere .
Then the number of molecules lying between between and is These produce an intensity Perpendicular to beam Pal.allel to beam . .
Thus the average intensity due to a molecule oriented at random is Perpendicular to beam Parallel to beam Thus the intensity perpendicular to the beam ( bright is double the intensity parallel to the beam ( weak image ) .
This , as has been shown , is at all events an approximation to what is found in the helium atom .
It seems , therefore , that the vibrations induced in the helium atom by the action of the incident light are nearly , if not quite , confined to one direction fixed in the atom .
None of the other substances examined show anything approximating to this behaviour .
There is reason to regard helium , from the part it plays in radioactive phenomena , as being in a special sense a fundamental form of matter .
Ib may be that the property here encountered is a direct result of specially simple atomic structure .
S4 .
Intensity of the Scattered Light in Various Gases .
According to the theory of scattering developed by Lord Rayleigh* the coefficient of of by a gas ( k ) is given by the equation where is the refractive index , the number of scattering particles ( molecules ) per unit volume , and the wave-length .
This equation may be deduced , as was shown later by Schuster , without making any assumption about the properties of the molecules , postulating merely that they act as sources of secondary disturbance with spherical ' Phil. Mag XLVII , p. 375 ( 1899 ) ; 'Collected ) vol. 4 , p. 397 .
'Optics , ' 2nd ed. , 1909 .
Gases : its Polansation and Intensity .
symmetry .
It has been shown recently by Lord Rayleigh* that , without this latter assumption , no definite relation holds between the coefficient of extinction and the refractive index .
The extinction by gases like air is only considerable in thicknesses measured in miles ; thus the direct comparison of coefficients of extinction by different gases is hardly practicable .
It is , however , possible to compare the lateral scatering ; and since the light missing from the primary beam appears laterally , the theory indicates that the intensity of scattering from different gases at the same pressure should vary as .
Preliminary semiquantitative experiments consistent with this relation were reported Proc. Roy .
Soc , vol. 84 , p. 453 ( 1918 ) .
I have now to describe careful measurements on the relative intensities .
The first series were made by visual photometry .
Using the same brass vessel as before , fig. 1 , the scattered light was viewed through a telescope having an object-glass of 6 cm .
and an eyepiece of cm .
focal length .
In the focal plane was placed a white surface at , arranged so as to cover half the field , and this was illuminated by a beam derived from another white surface exposed to the arc used to illuminate the gas .
) cobalt glass inserted in the path of the comparison beam gave a fair match to the colour of the scattered light , and a photometric wedge , made by Messrs. Sanger-Shepherd , gave the necessary adjustment for brightness .
The of the inclined white surface was seen in focus , and was backed by the feeble light of the scattered beam .
The wedge was adjusted by the observer to rive equal brightness to the two halves of the field , and the wedge graduation was read and recorded by an assistant .
It is , of course , most portant not to expose the eye to any extraneous light during these delicate observations , or , indeed , for some minutes before they are begun .
Since both the lights compared would be equally affected by variation in the intensity of the arc , any uncertainty due to this cause was eliminated .
Each gas was compared with air , and the pressures used were such as to give approximately the same wedge reading .
Thus very little depends on , the accuracy of the wedge calibration , which , however , was checked on a photometer and found very nearly correct .
In reducing the results , the intensity of scattered light was taken as proportional to the pressure .
The justification for this assull)ption will be given later .
The value of the wedge scale was such that a displacement to the thin end by one division meant an increase in the tran smitted light by a factor of .
As an example , the 'Phil .
Mag VI , vol. 35 , p. 381 ( May , 1918 ) .
It is scarcely worth while to explain in detail the system of lenses and mirlOl .
S used to bring this comparison light to where it was wanted .
VOL. XC'V.\mdash ; A. Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The Light ttered by comparison of and air may be taken .
This is the most difficult of those made , on account of the feebleness of the light scattered by Fifty settings were made with hydrogen at 760 mm. in the apparatus .
The extreme variations of the whole series were from 11 to 13 on the wedge scale , i.e. , about 25 per cent. on either side of the mean finally adopted .
The settings were made in five groups of ten each .
The means of the groups were : , and the final mean The apparatus was then filled with air at 17 cm .
pressure , for comparison with the above .
The extreme settings were and , the means of the sets , and the final mean The difference is wedge division , i.e. , a factor of This gives for the scattering power of hydrogen compared with air , the value , or A similar comparison of ether vapour and air gave the value ether/ air .
In this case the air at atmospheric pressure , the pressure of the ether vapotlr b reduced to give about the same brightness .
The determination naturally easier in this case than with hydrogen .
The next set of comparisons to be described were made by photography .
The method was to take a of the beam viewed at right angles , in the gas the less brilliant illumination , using the lens at full aperture .
Substituting the other gas , a series of exposures of the same duration were made with successively diminished apertures , reducing the area of the lens to about half at each step .
The opacities were measured by means of Abney 's photometer , and by interpolation the diminution of aperture required to reduce the photographic brightness of the second gas to equality with the first was determined .
The relative brightness was then iven by comparison of areas .
It will be observed that the times of exposure were kept equal .
Abney 's experiments have shown that for faint lights it is not safe to assume the law that , for a given opacity , exposure timeconstant .
The method requires a strictly constant source of light , and for this reason the carbon arc is unsuitable .
A mercury arc in quartz was used , and it was always run long enough to establish a uniform before beginning the exposures .
ison of nitrous oxide and air .
AirNitrous oxide .
Lens.meter Gases : its Polarisation Intensity .
To carry out the interpolation , we notice that on the wedge corre .
sponds to a factor of in the lens area .
Assunling a linear relation between the logarithm of the intensity of lighC and the .
of graphic opacity produced , a lens area of , or , would be required to give an image of opacity with nitrous .
Hence ratio of intensities nitrous oxide/ air is , or 290 .
The following Table summarises the results by both methods:\mdash ; Mean 3 The ratio of scattering power to the square of the refractivity is seen to be constant within the limits of experimental error for all the cases examined .
I The case of nitrous oxide is worthy of note , for , although it deviates considerably from the ideal case when the scattered is perfectly polarised , yet no distinct anomaly was detected in the amount of scattered .
light .
It would be important to make this comparison with helium , but I have not found time to do so .
S .
Effect of ) De So long as the scattering material remains in the truly aseous condition with free paths long compared with the molecular dimensions without anything in the nature of molecular association , the intensity must , to the received theory , increase directly as the pressure , for each molecule acts as an independent source , and he effect must be proportional to the number of sources .
* When , however , a vapour is in question , the possibility arises that molecular ations m be formed which would have a greatly increased scattering power .
This natural leads on to the question of the scattering power of vapours near the critical density , and of liquids .
I have expenmented with ether vapour , with carbon dioxide , and with liquid ether , all at the ordinary temperature .
Ether Vapour.\mdash ; The intensity of scattered by ether pour at a low pressure was compared with that at saturation pressure .
the activity , such aerified ftmospheric absorption ; chuster , there catiou b 2nd ed. , p. 329 ( 1909 ) , and for the various gases above .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The Light Scattered by photographic method already described for the comparison of different ases .
The apparatus and procedure did not differ materially from what was used in that case .
The following is the result of measuring a sampl plate ; 15 minutes ' exposure was given to each image , using the mercury lamp with quinine absorption cell : The photograph from which these measurements are taken is reproduced ( see Plate 2 , No. 3 ) .
Interpolating as before , we find that the ratio of intensity at cm .
to intensity at cm . .
The ratio of pressures is It is concluded , therefore , that ether vapour , at ordinary temperatures , shows an intensity of scattering proportional to the pressure up to the point of saturation .
There is no indication of any appreciable molecular aggrega .
tion .
A molecule of double volume , it is to be remembered , would scatter four times as much light .
Although no evidence of molecular regation could be obtained with the saturated yapour of ether , it was worth while to examine a saturated vapour of much greater density , as near the critical density as convenient .
Carbon dioxide seemed in every way suited to the experiment , but required , of course , a vessel designed to stand high pressures .
The arrangement is shown in fig. 2 .
It was made and tested under the supervision of Sir Charles Parsons , to whom I wish to express my best thanks for his kind help .
The main cross-piece is of steel tube , acetylene welded .
The caps , screwed on to the four ends , were of brass , with lead washers inside for gas tightness .
The gas entered at , and could , when desired , be let out through A. and were provided with conical glass plugs to serve as windows .
These were cemented in with soft wax .
The primary beam entered at , and was observed laterally through B. The tube was dead blacked inside , and moistened with glycerine to catch dust , if any should be present .
* Diaphragms carried on thin brass tubes were inserted at * It was thought that in the dense gas dust might be more difficult to filter out than usual , but in the event this did not seem to be so .
I Gases : its Polcvrisation Intensitj .
173 and as shown .
was a cotton-wool filter , with side connection to a pressure gauge .
The vesse 1 ABCD had been with water to 150 atmospheres .
For ' a singlc lells was 1 ) ace 1 in of the window , and a box to serve as mera was arlanged @o as to enc lose entirely the cap , thus utting out extraneous light .
cou ld be inserted as at when it was desired to restrict aperture .
( / THROUCfl FIG. 2 .
The carbonic acid taken from a cylinder containing liquid .
It was at first intended to take observations at a series of pressures , up to saturation , but a difficulty was found .
The vessel was not perfectly tight , and if the supply cylinder was shut off , leakage occurred , and the cooling resulting on this precipitated a fog of liquid or solid carbon dioxide which masked the scattering by the gas .
No doubt the trouble could be overcome , but it was not thought that time would be well spent in doing so , and the ) cnts were Hon. R. J. Strutt .
The Light Scattered by limited to comparing the intensity of scattering at atmospheric pressure and at saturation pressure .
For the latter , connection with the cylinder was kept fully open .
The experiments were made at a temperature of C. The gauge used ( an ordinary commercial one ) indicated 50 tmospheres .
The classical measurements of Andrews , however , gave about 60 atmospheres for saturation at this temperature .
In any case it is necessary to rely on Andrews ' result , as the density cannot be calculated by the assumption of Boyle 's law for so dense a vapour .
I have , therefore , assumed that the gauge is in error .
The same method of photographic photometry was used as before .
In three experiments , the effect of passing from atmospheric pressure to saturation pressure at was to increase the scattered light 96 , 109 , 100 times : mean 102 times .
According to Andrews*the increase of density under the same stances is times at .
It appears , therefore , that within the limits of experimental error , the scattering is proportional to the density in this case also , and there is nothing to suggest any aggregation of molecules into large clusters .
The experiments of Keesom have shown a very large scattering power for ethylene at the critical density , over a range of two or three degrees above the critical temperature .
There is room for further investigation in tracing the scattering power for low densities right up to the critical density .
Coming next to the behaviour of liquids .
Water is notoriously difficult to get free from motes , and these mask the true scattering by the liquid .
Ether , however , is easier to deal with and a few somewhat casual experiments have been made with it .
Even without special treatment this liquid is often fairly free of motes , and , as Lord Rayleigh has shown , can be cleared entirely by shaking with a little water , when the motes all find their way into the aqueous layer .
It is true that in this case the ether is not free from dissolved water ; but in a preliminary study of the broad features of the case , this is perhaps not of much importance .
Square glass bottles were used to contain the liquid ; to minimise reflections at the walls they were covered externally with the composition sold for backing photographic ])lates .
Windows were left for the entry of the primary beam , and for observing the light scattered from it laterally .
The mercury arc in quartz was used as a source , on account of its constancy .
The ultra-violet rays were cut off with a quinine filter , for , without this precaution , some samples of ether show fluorescence .
With the quinine filter , the photo'Phil .
Trans vol. 159 , p. 575 ( 1869 ) .
Communication from the Physical Laboratory of Leyden , 1908 .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 33 , p. 363 .
'Collected Works , ' vol. 3 , p. 669 . .
Soc. ) , Plate 2 .
: its isation and Intensity .
graphed spectrum of the light emitted laterally showed only the mercury , without continuous spectrum .
Thus fluorescence had apparently been eliminated .
Several samples of ether were tried .
The amount of scattered light , photographically compared , was the for all .
The point of special interest , however , was to compare the scattering power of liquid ether with that of ether vapour .
For this the brass vessel , fig. 1 , was connected by a considerable length of thick-walled rubber tubing to a bulb containing ether , and a manometer and air pump .
The rubber allowed of the vessel being placed in position , and removed to give place to the bottle of liquid ether .
Comparisons of intensity were made as usual , with diaphragms over the lens .
It was found that liquid ether gave 64 times the intensity given by the vapour at 39 cm .
and C. The liquid is about 446 times as dense as the vapour .
The scattering power seems therefore to be diminished about seven times when a given mass of ether vapour is condensed to liquid .
Possibly if the ether were pure and anhydrous , its scattering be still less .
When the material is liquefied , it is no longer permissible to phases of the molecules as independent , and distributed at random .
Thus the theory of gaseous scattering no longer applies .
There is more regularity in the distribution of the molecules , and as they are at a distance apart , small compared with the wave earth , this tends to diminution of the scattered light by interference .
S6 .
1 .
The light scattered at right angles by gases and vapours not completely polarised .
The vibrations parallel to the existing beam have always an appreciable intensity , which in ordinary cases varies from ( pentane ) to 14 per cent. ( nitrous oxide ) of the intensity in the perpendicular direction .
2 .
Helium is an outstanding case , polarising far less perfectly than any other gas .
The measurements give an intensity in the parallel component nearly ( though not quite ) half as great as that in the perpendicular component .
3 .
Theory indicates that this is the ratio to be expected if vibration in the helium atom is limited to a direction fixed within the atom , on the assumption , of course , of random orientation to the light .
Such an atom is the antithesis of the ' spherical\ldquo ; atom or molecule which would give perfect polarisation .
4 .
The intensity of scattering by the different gases tried varies as the square of the refractivity , within the limits of experimental error .
V0L .
176 Mr. T. K. Chinmayanandam .
5 .
Saturated vapours , even when very dense , show no increase of scattering power beyond what the density would lead one to expect .
If molecular ates are formed , they are not numerous enough to show by this method .
6 .
Liquid ether apparently scatters about seven times less light than a corresponding mass of ether vapour .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE 2 .
1 .
Photographs of the two polarisations in ether vapour .
Upper image has vibration vertical , lower horizontal .
Screens over the upper image of opacity increasing from left to right .
Equality at No. 5 .
2 .
Similar photographs for nitrous oxide , using same opaque screens .
Equality falls between Nos. 1 and 2 .
3 .
Ether vapour .
Nos. 1 and 5 at low pressure ; 2 , 3 , and 4 at saturation pressure , but with successively reduced lens aperture ( see p. 172 ) .
Note that No. 3 approximately equals Nos. 1 and 6 .
On 's Rings in Mica .
By T. K. HINMAYANANDAlI , .
( Hons .
) .
( Communicated by Dr. Gilberb T. Walker , C.S.I. , D.So .
, F.R.S. Received July 10 , 1918 .
) 1 .
Introduction .
The interference rings observed between plane parallel surfaces under diffuse monochromatic illumination have recently acquired much importance , in view of their practical application in the construction of spectroscopes of high resolving power .
These rings were first observed by Haidinger in mica .
This circumstance and the fact that mica is readily available , and by its natural furnishes plates with absolutely parallel faces , make the study of the rings in that substance one of considerable interest .
In a paper published in the ' Philosophical ' for November , 1906 , Lord Rayleigh described some interesting features of the rings observed in natural light .
Mica being a doubly refracting substance , there are in fact two systems of rings superposed upon each other , being each due to one of the beams polarised in planes at right angles to each other .
It may be expected , therefore , that there must be regions of maximum and minimum visibility in the field of view .
This is exactly what happens , and Lord Rayleigh has noted that in a plate of mica

