[ 273 ] VI .
On a Collection of Rock Specimens from the Island of Socotra .
By T. G. Bonney , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.G.S. , Professor of Geology University College , London , and Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Received June 12 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1882 .
[ Plates 6-7 .
] The specimens of rocks\#151 ; about 500 in number\#151 ; collected by Professor Bailey Balfoub during his late exploration of the Island of Socotra , were forwarded to me for examination .
Several of these specimens , as was to be expected under the circumstances , were in a condition unfavourable for precise determination , being often fragments from weathered surfaces and sometimes much decomposed .
Each , however , has been described as far as the circumstances would admit , and microscopic slides have been prepared for me by Mr. Cuttell from about 80 of the more interesting .
As it happens , certain of these offer difficulties which in the present state of our knowledge are almost insuperable .
While the use of the microscope has dispelled much confusion in our petrological ideas and supplied us in many respects with a firm basis of knowledge , it has not in every case\#151 ; owing to the novelty of this mode of research and the inherent difficulties\#151 ; enabled the student to feel perfect confidence in some of his conclusions , especially when he is restricted to this method of examination .
Perhaps the greatest of our petrological difficulties is the distinguishing in every case between certain highly metamorphosed rocks and those of similar chemical composition which are truly igneous .
It has , indeed , been maintained by some eminent geologists that certain sedimentary materials may be so altered by the combined action of water , heat , and pressure as to be converted situ into a rock indistinguishable from one of those commonly held to be of igneous origin .
Accordingly we read not seldom of " metamorphic granite " and of " gneiss passing into granite , " for it is of these that the above opinion is commonly held .
Other geologists , indeed , go yet further and make a similar assertion , not only of the more coarsely crystalline rocks such as syenite , diorite , and gabbro , but even of the more compact varieties of felstone and greenstone , which in like manner are said to afford indubitable examples of transition into beds of true sedimentary origin .
As regards this view , we may admit that if a mass of clastic materials be once reduced to a molten magma its past history is obliterated .
; and , further , that there is no reason , so far as we know , why this melting down should not occur .
In this sense , any igneous rock whatever may possibly deserve the name of metamorphic .
But , while admitting the d priori possibility of MDCCCLXXXIII .
2 N such a change , I must confess to being sceptical as to whether any case of it has yet been fully proved to exist .
I have studied not a few of the alleged instances patiently and , as I trust , without prejudice , always with the following results\#151 ; either that there was no evidence which was conclusive on either side , or that to a practised eye there was very clear evidence against the asserted transition\#151 ; that ( to refer to the instance named above ) either the so-called granite was clearly only a granitoid gneiss or else that it was distinctly intrusive in the schistose rock .
In these investigations the microscope is a very great help , but I freely admit that there are many cases where we cannot rely upon it alone , and must also study the rock in the field .
Our knowledge at present does not enable us to pronounce upon the classificatory value of certain structures which we observe in the microscopic study of some specimens .
This difficulty , however , is one which time and experience will probably remove .
To admit the existence of cases where it is at present safer to suspend the judgment in no way concedes that it is impossible ultimately to arrive at a conclusion .
So then , while not professing in every case from examination of hand specimens alone to decide whether a rock is a granitoid gneiss or a true granite , I believe in the distinctness of the two rocks .
As it happens , some of the specimens from Socotra belong to this dubious class ; and I cannot say positively , even after microscopic examination , whether in certain cases we have a granitoid gneiss or a true granite , and in others a hornblendic rock of sedimentary origin or a true diorite .
In drawing up my report on Professor Balfour 's collection I have thought it best to give , first , a general description of the petrology of those parts of the island over which he travelled , and then to describe the more important varieties of each group of rocks with which his journey has furnished us.* The island of Socotra is about 72 miles long from east to west and about 22 miles in breadth .
The general physical features are thu3 described by Professor Balfour in his account of the island printed in the volume of reports of the British Association for the year 1881 " The surface features of Socotra at the present time are those of an island mountainous in the extreme .
The shore line on its southern aspect is , as the map shows , a tolerably continuous one , unbroken by deep inlets or bays .
On the northern side occur a few shallow bays at the mouths of the streams , which afford the only anchorage to be obtained around the island , but no one of them is safe at all seasons of the year .
On all sides the hills rise with considerable abruptness over a wide area , forming bold perpendicular cliffs of several hundred feet in height , whose base is washed by the waters of the Indian Ocean , but at other places leaving plains varying in breadth up to as much as five miles between their base and the shore .
On the south side of the island is the largest of these shore plains ( Nogad ) , which , extending * In writing the first draft of this paper I followed the other plan , and described the specimens as they were collected by him during each section ( generally representing a day ) of his journey ; but as I found this involve prolixity and needless repetition , I have recast the paper into its present form .
ROCK SPECIMENS FROM THE ISLAND OF SOCOTRA .
nearly the whole length of the island , is for miles covered with dunes of blown sand .
On the north these plains occur chiefly at the mouths of the streams , and are the sites of the only places which may be called towns .
" The internal hilly part of the island may be roughly and shortly described as a wide undulating and intersected limestone plateau of an altitude averaging 1,000 feet , which flanks on the west , south , and east a nucleus of granitic peaks approaching 4,000 feet high .
The whole of this hilly region is deeply cut into by ravines and valleys .
These in the rainy season are occupied by roaring torrents , but the majority of them remain empty during the dry season .
There are , however , many perennial streams on the island , especially in the central granitic region , where amongst the hills the most charming bubbling streams , dashing over boulders in a series of cascades or purling gently over a pebbly shingle , make it hard to believe that one is in such proximity to the desert region of Arabia .
Few of the perennial streams reach the shore in the dry season\#151 ; most of them are fiumaras .
" The eastern end of the island is most destitute of water .
Here in the dry season are no rivers , and , springs being rare , it is the most arid region .
" Igneous , metamorphic , and sedimentary rocks compose the island .
The fundamental rock is granitic .
This crops out , as I have mentioned , towards the middle of the island , forming a series of bare pinnacles and crags , projecting , with singularly fantastic look , from the plateau below .
This rock also shows on the slopes of the valleys and ravines below the compact limestone which caps it and forms the surface rock of the hill plateaux .
This limestone attains in places , as seen on the cliff faces , a thickness of two or three hundred feet .
Superficially , over wide areas it is rotted and broken into a jagged surface , over which progression is by no means easy , while at ' other spots it forms broad , smooth slabs .
A shaly rock and coarse-textured purple sandstone , in beds dipping at all angles , crop out in the valleys and on the shore , whilst forming the shore-plains and the bases of the valleys is a recent breccia and conglomerate .
Cutting through all these rocks , and altering them to a considerable extent , occur dykes and extensive masses of doleritic rocks and felstones , which vary much in texture .
" Professor Balfour , landed on the shore of Gubbet Gollonsir at the north-western extremity of the island and explored the district fringing this bay for some distance inland , so as to examine the high ground on either side of the level valley which opens out to the sea .
The uplands here consist of a thick deposit of limestone , probably of middle tertiary age , but in many cases remarkably compact and hard , so that it has attunes considerable resemblance to the well-known dolomites of the Italian Tyrol .
This mass of limestone rests unconformably upon a group of highly crystalline gneisses , associated with diorites and perhaps with hornblende schists , which in general character correspond with the Hebridean series in the north-west of Scotland .
These older rocks are frequently exposed in the beds of valleys and in the lower part of the walls of the plateau .
The same description applies to the elevated districts traversed by Professor 2 n 2 Balfour on his way to the shore in Kurmeh Bay ; but judging from the specimens which he has brought , I think it probable that some true granite is also associated with the gneissic series .
The limestone , supported as usual by the latter , extends along the shore of Kurmeh Bay , and towards the eastern part it is cut ( together , of course , with the older rocks ) by basalt dykes .
Felsite also occurs somewhere in this district , probably inland towards the south-east .
Further east along this plain , in the vicinity of Kadhab village , basalt dykes are seen cutting the limestone rock , and there are scattered boulders of granite or granitoid rock , of red felsites and rhyolites , and of a hornblendic diabase .
The cliffs by the sea between Kadhab village and Hadibu Plain are composed chiefly of the usual massive limestone , which rests on a green flinty shale or argillite .
The lower part of the limestone is a breccia , in which are fragments of the subjacent rock , and bands in it even resemble the latter ( possibly being composed of the same material redeposited ) .
In this neighbourhood occurs a mass of a kind of kersantite , the presence of which may account for the peculiar " baked " aspect of the shale .
Similar argillites occur along the line of strike in the valley to the south-east of Tamarida village , overlain as before by the limestone .
They have a rather sharp dip to the south-south-west , and " an imperfect vertical cleavage , or possibly , jointing .
" Apparently beneath , but possibly intrusive in the argillites , are some compact pale grey felsites .
Inland rises the fine Haggier range whose outlines somewhat remind us of the peaks of Sinai .
The bulk of the specimens from this place are reddish or pinkish felspatliic granites , not generally very rich in quartz and always poor in the third constituent , generally rather coarsely crystalline , to which we may give the name of pegmatite/ ' " This is cut by veins of a more compact granite and by at least one dyke of mica-trap .
It is possible that gneiss also is present in this region .
About the margin of the range the limestone rests upon the granite , and contains detritus from the latter in its lower part .
The approximately highest point of the range is a pegmatite .
On the south side about Adona we have the same pegmatites with a more hornblendic granite , and intrusive dykes or veins of compact purplish quartz-felsite or rhyolite .
Eastwards from Hadibu , on the way to Jebel Omhari , blocks of reddish felsite or rhyolite are shown on the plain , and the limestone is presently reached .
The extreme north-west of the Girgha range is formed of pegmatites similar to those of the Haggier mountain , varying from coarse to fine in texture , and of a rather compact quartz-felsite ; the latter constitutes a considerable hill mass , and is probably intrusive in the former .
There is also some intrusive diabase .
Between Kami and the hamlet Ma-aber , on the Motaha , the rocks vary considerably .
Granites of the usual type , compact reddish or greyish quartz-felsite or rhyolite alter- * There is some authority for applying this term ( often used vaguely ) to granites which consist almost wholly of quartz and felspar .
Of these , " graphic granite " is a variety .
ROCK SPECIMENS FROM THE ISLAND OF SOCOTRA .
nate one with another .
A mica-trap is also found .
Evidently this is an extension of the last group of rocks .
A specimen of an epidotic quartzite proves that there are , at any rate , some indications of the metamorphic series .
Following the Motaha river in a south-south-west direction we find pegmatites , coarse and fine-grained felsites , red , buff , and grey in colour , together with a greenstone so much decomposed that it is difficult to decide whether it be augitic or horn-blendic .
The specimens prove that the typical rocks of the Haggier range extend at least thus far to the east .
Returning to Ma-aber and continuing the section eastwards for three or four miles to Gedidery , Professor Balfour found first more red felsite , and then , near the latter place , much variation in the character and the colour of the rocks\#151 ; " grey , white , yellowish , and red beds alternating .
" The specimens from these show that the following rocks are represented : fine-grained granite , compact felsites , diorite or , possibly , hornblendic schist and decomposed greenstone .
It is also seen that the felsite , like the granite , is overlain by the usual limestone .
Between Gedidery and Gharrieh fine-grained granites and compact quartz felsites were collected , indicating that the Haggier group is prolonged as far as Khor Gharrieh , where these rocks come down to the sea .
The granitic series was traced inland up the course of a stream , flowing generally north-north-west as far as the hamlet Yishas , and is cut by diorites .
From this place up the Goahal Valley , in an easterly direction , crystalline rocks may be traced beneath the limestone , but some of the specimens must , I think , be gneisses , so that the ancient metamorphic series probably occurs in the eastern as well as in the western part of Socotra .
Probably it could be traced still further east , but Professor Balfour , owing to indisposition , was unable to collect any specimens for the next seven miles .
The limestone plateau stretches away to the eastern extremity of the island , specimens of this rock being brought from Has Mom , a hill at the neck of the long terminal peninsula , which was the turning point of the expedition .
After retracing his steps for a few miles to the west , Professor Balfour travelled for some distance over the limestone plateau as far as Kittim , shortly after leaving which place he turned to the north-north-west , passing first over considerable masses of rhyolitic breccias , conglomerates , and grits .
A specimen was also brought from a vein of calcite , containing fragments of red rhyolite and pinkish felspathic granite .
Some of these fragments appear to be of volcanic origin , and there are masses of compact quartz-felsite , and of rhyolite with distinct fluidal structure , which , as Professor Balfour remarked , appeared very like lava flows .
All these rocks are overlain by the plateau limestones .
From Azorah Professor Balfour turned in a west-south-west direction , following the Mitgahon gorge down to Baha , a village lying at the base of a peak called Tof , the easternmost summit of the Haggier range .
Very compact quartz-felsites , and rhyolites abound .
They form a conspicuous hill called Afero , which appeared to him to resemble the neck or " core " of a volcano .
Near the opening of the gorge are doleritic rocks , which extend for some distance , and are , at any rate in some cases , intrusive in the granitic series which is sometimes fine-grained and is more hornblendic than usual .
The red felsite also occurs .
After returning to Hadibu Professor Balfour crossed the Haggier range , and travelling in a general southerly direction reached the Nogad plain about the middle of the south coast of Socotra .
But few specimens were collected during this part of the expedition , and the only two of interest were a red rhyolite , near Feraighey , and a rather peculiar dolerite , which will be more minutely described under their proper heads .
On the plain were loose blocks of a hard conglomerate containing well-rounded pebbles ( up to about 1 inch or longer in diameter ) of compact red quartz-felsite and purplish rhyolite with well marked fluidal structure embedded in a silicious paste .
Besides these , blocks were found of white cherty fragments , also in a silicious matrix , which contains grains of the above igneous rocks .
After leaving the Nogad plain Professor Balfour again crossed the limestone plateau to the north coast near Gubbet Kadhab , whence he returned to Hadibu .
I now proceed to describe the more conspicuous and interesting varieties of rocks in Professor Balfour 's collection , taking the more crystalline and most ancient series first in order .
Gneissic rocks .
The existence of a series of highly crystalline metamorphic rocks in the Island of Socotra is indubitable , notwithstanding the difficulty already mentioned , of deciding without further examination whether certain of the specimens are to be referred to the granitoid gneisses or the granites .
This series forms the floor on which rest the great limestone plateau and some other sedimentary deposits , and is well exposed in the western and to some extent in the eastern part of the island , being replaced in the central and most elevated region by true granites .
The following are the principal varieties : ( a ) gneisses , not conspicuously foliated , consisting of quartz , felspar ( generally of pinkish colour ) and mica , black and white , and possibly hornblende .
As a type of these a specimen from a hill near the opening of Gollonsir Valley was examined microscopically .
The slide exhibits quartz , felspar , little elongated clusters of green hornblende with some epidote , opacite , ferrite , and a few scales of white mica .
The felspar is chiefly microdine , a variety which is remarkably abundant in the Hebridean gneisses and in others of great antiquity .
There is also a plagioclase , probably albite , * and some of the felspar crystals contain groups of small colourless microliths with a parallel arrangement .
This structure I have also observed in some of the old gneisses from Greenland .
The quartz contains small cavities ( rarely with * In attempting to determine the species of the felspar I have made nse of the optical tests given by Professors Fouque and Levy ( among others ) in their magnificent work " Roches Eruptives Fran Raises , " I cannot , however , say that I feel great confidence in the results of the method , ROCK SPECIMENS PROM THE ISLAND OF SOCOTRA .
2 ?
9 bubbles ) , prismatic microlitlis of very pale green colour , and numerous colourless hairlike microliths , scattered irregularly throughout the grain .
The resemblance of the specimens to examples from the Hebridean series of Scotland , the Laurentian series of America , and other Archaean rocks is very striking .
[ 4115 ] , one of a large series from the right bank of the upper part of the Gollonsir " Valley , contains a fair proportion of black mica instead of hornblende .
Apatite can be recognised , and the small , almost colourless , prismatic microliths already mentioned , some of which may be referred to this mineral , though I am of opinion that the majority are different .
There is no microcline , but a good deal of plagioclase , probably both albite and oligoclase .
[ 4124 ] contains hornblende with a black mica and sphene .
( 6 ) granitoid gneisses , consisting mainly of quartz and felspar , belonging to the group for which I have proposed the name granitoidite * In these the quartz and felspar correspond with those described above , and the principal difference is that the rock is mainly composed of these two minerals , with an occasional grain of iron peroxide and a flake or two of iron glance or a ferruginous mica , hornblende or epidote .
( c )hornblendic rocks , which we shall notice in the next paragraph , and ( d ) an impure quartzite from near Kami , north-east of the Haggier range .
This rock consists of quartz , decomposed felspar , epidote , and perhaps a little hornblende , with , in parts , a good deal of magnetite .
Diorite and other hornblendic rocks .
I have made this division somewhat vague for two reasons : one that in rocks of igneous origin the hornblende is not unfrequently of secondary origin , having replaced augite or diallage , so that the rock is more properly a uralitic or hornblendic diabase than a true diorite : the other , that the means of making a thorough study of some difficult examples of these rocks\#151 ; corresponding with those already mentioned in the gneisses and granites\#151 ; are only now being obtained by me.t From the hill near the opening of Gollonsir Valley is a series of specimens , which , according to Professor Balfour , come from what appears to be a dyke in the Archaean series .
Some are coarser in texture than others .
Two of these [ 4009 ] and [ 4005 ] have been examined microscopically , of which the former was in situ , the latter from a loose block .
They consist of a decomposed felspar , in which , however , the remains of the twinning characteristic of plagioclase can occasionally be discerned , of hornblende , black mica , and opacite , with some apatite , and a few grains of epidote .
The hornblende is green in colour and exhibits very characteristic cleavage .
The mica is sometimes altered to a greenish mineral , and often contains needles and grains of opacite , generally arranged parallel with the principal cleavage planes .
In [ 4053 ] " from the slope of the hill * Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , vol. xxxv .
, p. 322 .
f It must be remembered , in excuse for this ignorance , that it is of no use to purchase specimens for study of these difficult cases , or , as a rule , to trust the statements which one finds in print .
The student must collect his own specimens , and to do this it is necessary to visit distant localities and expend much time and money .
Hence difficulties are but slowly removed .
PROFESSOR T. Gr .
BONNET- ON A COLLECTION OF above Hanigon , to the west of the former locality , " the felspar is less altered , and some of it , if we may trust the optical tests , is albite , and more of the green mineral appears to be an altered mica .
Among the Archaean rocks on the right bank of the upper part of the Gollonsir Valley are two dykes .
One of these [ 4145 ] , a dark speckled rock with the felspathic constituent weathering yellow , consists of long narrow crystals of rather decomposed plagioclastic felspar and a hornblendic mineral ; some of this shows very characteristic cleavage , other crystals when cut parallel with the edges of the prism exhibit a rather fibrous structure and look as if they might be of secondary origin .
One or two possibly replace magnesia-mica .
There is a little quartz , epidote , and some black iron peroxide , with , perhaps , a little apatite .
The other dyke has much of its hornblende in long narrow crystals with the same secondary aspect , and the felspar crystals also , which to a great extent are replaced by secondary microliths , are long and narrow like those of a dolerite .
A third specimen [ 4197 ] from a rock on the bank of a stream is of the same character , but rather more porphyritic .
Many of the felspar crystals show a zonal structure , and the outer part remains clear , while the inner is replaced by secondary microliths .
The small extinction angle , where observable , leads me to conclude that oligoclase is the dominant felspar .
In this slide magnesia-mica is recognisable .
From the tracts traversed on the east of Ghubbet Kurmeh a remarkable rock has been brought , which , with some hesitation , I class among the diorites .
The compact matrix is a dark blue , almost black colour , in which are thin crystals of felspar often nearly 1"long .
With the microscope the ground mass is seen to consist of small elongated felspar crystals having a rather fibrous or " teased " aspect , associated with much opacite and some green microliths of hornblende or chlorite , rather irregularly disseminated , and some flakes of brown mica .
The larger crystals of plagioclase felspar show the greatest absorption at very small angles with the vibration planes of the crossed nicols , and parallel lamellae extinguish almost simultaneously , so that they are probably oligoclase .
The hornblende , however , has very much the aspect of a secondary product , and I am disposed to regard the rock rather as a hornblendic diabase than a true diorite .
From an isolated hill in the middle of the Gharrieh Plain ( mainly limestone ) , which is covered with a peculiar vegetation , come some dioritic rocks ( associated apparently with granites or granitoid gneisses ) .
One of these consists of a plagioclastic felspar , which ( though in part replaced by microliths ) from its large angle , where unaltered , between successive extinctions ( often quite 30 ' ) is probably , in part at least , anorthite , and of hornblende , also with a secondary aspect , some chlorite , with epidote , apatite , and a dichroic fibrous lamellar green mineral , which extinguishes parallel with the lamellae , and is more probably an altered mica than hornblende .
A few grains of quartz are also present .
Other hornblendic rocks were noted during my examination of the specimens .
Those described above certainly appear to be in all cases igneous rock , but it is quite ROCK SPECIMENS FROM THE ISLAND OF SOCOTRA .
possible that among them may have been some of metamorpbic origin referable to the Archaean series , for , as my experience in Cornwall and Scotland has shown me , it is sometimes by no means easy to distinguish the one from the other in band specimens .
Dolerites , b , \amp ; c. The information furnished to me does not allow me to attempt any classification of this group .
Some of the basalts cut the limestones and so are among the most modern known igneous rocks of the island , but whether all these augitic rocks are of the same date it is impossible to say : probably they are not .
A dolerite from the plain on the south-west of the stream in Gollonsir Valley [ 4051 ] , is a rather coarsely crystalline rock , consisting mainly of whitish felspar and black augite .
The former , under the microscope , proves to be well preserved labradorite , the crystals of which have fairly regular linear boundaries , and in form are rather broad oblongs .
The augite , which has solidified after the felspar , is full , in one or two cases , of irregular grains of opacite , which sometimes make up almost the whole of the crystal .
Incipient conversion into uralite is exhibited , crystals of augite having sometimes an irregular border of the latter mineral ; while sometimes minute scales of it are disseminated in the nearly colourless augite crystal .
In one or two instances almost the whole crystal is replaced by uralite .
One of the dykes near Kadhab village [ 4198 ] , I leave , after microscopic examination , with some hesitation among the basalts .
It retains some traces of a clear glassy base crowded with opacite and other microliths , some acicular and colourless , which with some larger crystals are rather like anorthite , others are of a greenish-yellow colour , fibrous or filmy ; these being generally associated in irregular patches , with interspersed specks of opacite .
They are most like replacements of an augitic constituent .
A little hornblende can also be recognised .
There are some indications of fluidal structure , and the rock evidently approaches the augite-andesite group .
[ 4454 ] , one of a group of rocks of doleritic aspect , from the base of Azalin on the bank of the Hasainho , speckled whitish and blackish , consists of ( a ) labradorite in well defined crystals , evidently the first mineral to consolidate ; ( ) a slightly brown , rather dichroic augite , which in one case approaches diallage in its close cleavage ; ( c ) a dark brown hornblende , sometimes inclining at the edges to sap-green ( Plate 7 , fig. 1 ) .
This paragenesis\#151 ; for I think the whole aspect of the hornblende forbids the idea that it is of secondary formation ( the uralites being generally green , and often quite pale)\#151 ; though not very common is far from being unprecedented .
It seems , for example , rather frequently in the old diabases of North Wales , and in the gabbro of Mont Colon ( Pennine Alps ) .
[ 4449 ] , one of a very similar group of specimens , from the " rocks of which Azalin is composed , " consists of well crystallized labradorite in good preservation , olivine , sometimes partially replaced by serpentinous microliths , opacite , augite , with a little diallage and hornblende .
Some of the last mineral is certainly of secondary MDCCCLXXXIII , 2 Q origin , bordering augite crystals , but one or two grains of darker colour may possibly be original constituents .
The latter specimen then comes near to the true dolerites , the former to the Labrador-diorites .
From boulders in the bed of a stream-course near Fernaighey ( no rock occurring in situ ) , come some specimens , of which [ 4499 ] may be taken as a type .
The ground mass consists of a mass of small crystals of a white felspar and a black mineral , in which are scattered larger felspar crystals , sometimes 2 inches long .
Under the microscope the rock is seen to consist of a rather decomposed labradorite , of a dull green , dirty -looking mineral associated with and occasionally replaced by opacite , probably a decomposed augite or diallage , and of a fibrous or scaly green mineral , giving bright tints with crossed nicols , also associated with grains of opacite .
These aggregates have probably replaced olivine .
There are also some fair sized crystals of apatite .
The rock then has been an olivine-dolerite , but would now be more properly classed with the diabases .
Granites .
For the reasons given above I am unable to decide whether some of the specimens brought by Professor Balfour are true granites or only exceptional examples of the granitoid gneisses or granitoidites.'* At the same time we need not hesitate to admit the existence of a considerable amount of this rock , especially in the more central part of the island , as for instance in the Haggier range .
The granites of Socotra , as a rule , consist mainly of quartz and felspar , and so belong , as we have said , to the variety pegmatite .
The latter mineral usually predominates and is commonly of a reddish colour .
They are frequently much decomposed and not seldom show some indications of a graphic structure .
It will suffice to select two or three from a large series as examples .
[ 4249 ] , " from the high cliff on the northern face of the Haggier range , one of the specimens typical of the rock forming the highest peaks , " is a good example of the coarse red and white pegmatite .
Microscopically it consists of a decomposed felspar , most , if not all , being orthoclase , quartz with numerous microlithic enclosures and minute fluid cavities , and a little of a dark green strongly dichroic mineral .
Some of this is hornblende , but part of it much resembles tourmaline , to which mineral some acicular microliths , in one case in a tufted group , almost certainly belong .
A second [ 4241 ] " from the slopes above Hadibu , " has among it felspar , microcline , and a fair quantity of plagioclase ( ?
oligoclase ) , grains of magnetite and a green chloritic mineral associated with clots of opacite , evidently replacing a magnesia-mica , associated with which is a little of a colourless mineral , possibly apatite .
[ 4264 ] , from the same region , is a " vein-granite , which cuts the coarser variety .
" It is a very finely crystalline quartz-felspar rock of a warm grey colour , containing some dark crystals about 0'25 " long .
With the microscope it is seen to consist of intercrystallised quartz and felspar , the latter often exhibiting close twinning and sometimes being probably microcline .
* Quart .
Jour , , Geo. Soc. , yol .
p. 822 , ROCK SPECIMENS FROM THE ISLAND OF SOCOTRA .
The crystals occasionally exhibit rectilinear boundaries , but often interlace one with another and with the quartz in a very complicated way , as is not seldom the case in vein-granites .
The slide contains some brown mica and tourmaline , the latter certainly a pseudomorph after the former .
Two crystals retain a cleavage resembling hornblende , but behave optically as a uniaxial mineral , and when properly placed absorb the polarised beam far more completely than is usual with hornblende\#151 ; a curious case of pseudomorphism , which , however , is not without parallels ( Plate 7 , fig. 2 ) .
[ 4205 ] , an erratic near Kadhab village , doubtless from the western part of the Haggier range , is a red felspar-granite rather similar to the last , with a little iron-mica .
[ 4207 ] , a rather similar rock from the same region , exhibits in part a distinct micrographic structure ; the decomposed felspar crystals are intimately interbanded with quartz , possibly of secondary origin ; these two are most likely vein-granites .
[ 4439 ] , near Hesainho , in a region cut by felstone dykes , is a fine-grained pink and white granite with green specks , which under the microscope shows intercrystallised quartz and decomposed felspar ( orthoclase and ( ?
) oligoclase ) , with an approach to a graphic structure , besides some altered biotite\#151 ; the rock is cut by a dyke of gabbro .
Between these two rocks is a thin zone composed of the granite and the gabbro crushed , and to some extent mingled , though the materials of the former predominate .
The constituents have been subsequently recemented , probably by deposition of quartz ; this crushing was doubtless subsequent to the solidification of the newer rock .
From the north-west of the Girgha range comes a series of specimens varying from coarse to moderately fine crystalline , and consisting of quartz and felspar with small quantities of hornblende and black mica , having a general resemblance to those already described from the Haggier range .
Microscopic examination of one [ 4335 ] showrs that the felspar is orthoclase , and perhaps microcline , with oligoclase .
Small quantities of a chloritic mineral and a few microliths , possibly of tourmaline , are also present .
The structure of the rock is rather abnormal for a granite , having some resemblance to the granitoid gneisses , but as there has been some local crushing and recementation , it may , notwithstanding , be a true granite .
Felstones and .
Under this head I have retained a large number of rocks , which in some cases it would have been easy , but in others impossible , to subdivide .
Petrologists are at present hardly in a position to agree upon precise definitions for the names of certain of the more acid igneous rocks , or upon the classificatory value of some of their minute structures .
For example , a felstone must have a ground mass which is either microcrystalline or cryptocrystalline .
But at present we cannot say whether or not these two structures correspond with different conditions in the past history of the rock , and so are of specific rather than of varietal value .
Again , the latter structure , in some cases , appears to have been produced during the solidification of the mass , in others long afterwards .
These , at present , it is often impossible to distinguish .
Again , 2 o 2 although we can often make a reasonable conjecture , we have no sure criteria for distinguishing between specimens taken from a dyke and from a flow , if they happen to have solidified under approximately similar circumstances .
Hence , seeing that while in the present extensive series from Socotra there are some which are certainly from intrusive masses and others which are almost as certainly from lava flows , there are several which I cannot separate , either lithologically or petrologically , I have thought it better to group them under one general title , and indicate in the description what seems the most probable history of the rock from which the specimen has been taken .
The majority of these Socotra felstones are of a warm red or purplish colour , though some of a grey tint also occur .
They vary from minutely crystalline ( approaching on this side vein-granites ) to very compact sub vitreous rocks which sometimes show a well marked fluidal structure .
It will , perhaps , be more convenient to describe them as they occur geographically rather than to attempt to make a lithological arrangement .
The first specimen [ 4049 ] is from a dyke in the Archaean series , not far from the coast of Gubbet Gollonsir , about lj mile east of Ras Bedu , at the western extremity of the northern coast of Socotra .
It is a compact dull-coloured felsite , weathering a pale yellowish-brown , containing many little black crystals .
Under the microscope the rock appears to have a glassy base , stained with ferrite so as to present a rather muddy aspect , in which are scattered many small and well-formed crystals , both of felspar and green hornblende ; among the former orthoclase and a plagioclase , possibly albite , can be recognised ; the latter crystals are generally well formed but sometimes include portions of the ground mass .
This , when examined with the two nicols , is to be seen full of minute microlitbs of felspar , but there appears to be some remains of a glassy base .
There is no free quartz .
The rock then appears to be intermediate between the hornblende andesites and the sanidine ( or orthoclase ) trachytes .
From the same neighbourhood also comes a rather granular quartz-felsite containing some hornblende .
Several specimens have been examined from an interesting series obtained on the plain near Kadhab village ; unfortunately none of these occur in , but , as Professor Balfour informs me , they doubtless come from a part of the Haggier range lying to the south-east .
[ 4206 ] , a compact dark felsite with paler spots and wavy bands of a more crystalline material , containing small scattered crystals of pink felspar , exhibits under the microscope a clear base ( perhaps not wholly devitrified ) studded with numberless minute granules and rods of opacite , indicating a fluidal structure .
The spots and bands prove to be groups of spherulites crowded together with irregular interlocking edges .
* There is some green hornblende , generally in clustered granules , possibly associated with minute tourmaline .
The larger felspar crystals resemble orthoclase or sanidine , and there is a little free quartz .
It is therefore a rhyolite , but not one of the kind which , judging from this collection , is so common in Socotra .
Of this [ 4203 , 4213 , 4214 ] are types , " compact red felstones or * As in the figures of a devitrified glass : Daubrke , ' Etudes Syntlietiques de Geologie Experimentale , ' lre Party , pp. 170 and 171 .
ROCK SPECIMENS FROM THE ISLAND OF SOCOTRA .
rhyolites , " exhibiting on their weathered surfaces a beautifully distinct and rather parallel fluidal structure .
This is most perfect in the second specimen .
Microscopic examination shows it to be produced by ferrite-stained bands and lines of opacite granules and trichites with clearer interspaces .
Small crystals of quartz , felspar , and little spherulites occur occasionally .
The ground mass seems to be wholly devitrified .
The first specimen shows traces of " flow brecciation " and is more unequally devitrified , with but few imperfect spherulites .
The last [ 4214 ] has irregular spherulites and bands with a brush-like arrangement of microliths : it contains a little more free quartz .
From " the banks of the Kereguiti stream , south of Hadibu , " apparently intrusive in the green slaty rocks and the lower part of the overlying limestone , come pale bulf or grey felsites .
[ 4234 ] exhibits under the microscope an extremely minute devitrified structure , the slide is slightly clouded with ferrite and contains small scattered granules of quartz and felspar and minute specks of ( !
) hornblende .
This rock is not unlike some of the most compact varieties of felstone from the Bala group of North Wales .
From " the spurs of the Haggier range running towards the sea " come compact red quartz-felsites and rhyolites , generally resembling those already described .
[ 4285 ] is cryptocrystalline , with a rather coraloid or arborescent structure , occasionally spheru-litic ; it is much stained with ferrite , contains a few scattered grains of quartz , decomposed felspar , iron peroxide , and hornblende or tourmaline , and is more probably from a dyke than from a flow .
A pinkish quartz-felsite [ 4331 ] " from the interbanded group of rocks underlying the conglomeratic base of the limestone , south of Ma-aber , " has a cryptocrystalline ground mass of quartz and decomposed ferrite-stained felspar ; the former mineral , which is very abundant , has at first sight a rounded or polygonal outline , giving the rock a superficial resemblance to one of fragmental origin .
In this ground mass are scattered grains of quartz , crystals of felspar , and ( probably ) magnetite .
In the eastern part of the Haggier range near Adona the coarse red pegmatite is cut by dull purplish compact felstone dykes .
[ 4399 ] has been taken from a vein only about S " thick .
The junction with the granite is beautifully exhibited in the slide , one or two small fragments of the latter being included in the former .
This exhibits a cryptocrystalline structure , almost microcrystalline in parts , which , however , is in no respect remarkable .
In the other [ 4368 ] , also a junction specimen , the intrusive rock is minutely devitrified , shows slight fluidal structure , and has a general resemblance to the rhyolites already described ; a small band of crushed granite occurs at the junction , as shown in the figure ( Plate 7 , fig. 3 ) .
The felsites , which are associated with the argillites and calcareous rocks on the banks of the Kereguiti stream ( Hadibu Plain ) , being apparently intrusive in them , are of a different character ; they are compact flinty felsites of a pale buff or grey colour .
One [ 4234 ] under the microscope exhibits an extremely minute cryptocrystalline structure , the ground mass being irregularly and lightly clouded with ferrite , containing 286 PROFESSOR T. G. BONNEY ON A COLLECTION OF f .
* specks of a hornblendic or chloritic mineral , with grains of quartz and felspar , some of which show the twinning of plagioclase .
Bhyolites of a purplish colour , exhibiting fluidal structure , and of the former type , occur among the boulders on the plain between Girgha and Omhari , and pinkish quartz-felsites come from the extreme north-west of the Girgha range , where , in the ascent of a valley from the Hadibu plain , " red granite , white granite , reddish felstone , and intrusive dark rock , alternate one with another with marvellous rapidity , and disappear under the limestone on the northern side .
" One of the quartz-felsites [ 4285 ] under the microscope exhibits a rather irregular cryptocrystalline structure , approaching corailoid or aborescent , here and there spherulitic ; the spherulites having an irregular outline .
The slide is stained with ferrite , contains a few scattered grains and imperfect crystals of quartz , decomposed felspar , with microlitlis of iron-peroxide , and hornblende or tourmaline .
From the group of compact felsites or rhyolites , which are members of a very variable series of rocks near Gedidery , one of the most compact , of a purplish colour [ 4364 ] , exhibits under the microscope a clear base , interspersed with minute aggregated granules of ferrite , varying from a sienna-brown colour to almost black , which gives a mottled aspect to the slide .
Scattered in this are crystals of sanidine and plagioclase ( ?
albite ) , and other crystals , now occupied by yellowish-brown secondary minerals and clotted ferrite , but which , judging from their outlines , have in some cases almost certainly been augite , others , however , may have been biotite .
The felspar crystals have a curiously rounded outline , and contain numerous enclosures of brown glass .
No free quartz is visible , so that the rock must be classed with the sanidine trachytes .
The compact red felsites intrusive in granites " from the side of Khor , near the village of Gharrieh , " are very much of the normal type , compact reddish or pinkish felsites , containing minute specks of quartz and of a greenish mineral , with small felspar crystals .
[ 4359 ] , examined microscopically , exhibits one of the slightly " arborescent " cryptocrystalline structures already noticed , and is clearly related to types described above .
[ 4350 ] , from the same region , is very closely related to the vein-granites in structure .
The ground mass is microcrystalline ; the quartz , which occurs in irregular grains of variable size , has many microlithic enclosures ; there are one or two distinguishable crystals of orthoclase , and clusters of small crystals of biotite .
Several specimens of compact felsites or rhyolites have been brought from the district to the west of Kittim and then north-north-west as far as Azorah , where these , together with a conglomerate or agglomerate containing a similar rock , form a large part of the hills of this district .
Ten slides have been examined microscopically , but after what has been already said it will be needless to do more than indicate their distinctive features .
[ 4443 ] and [ 4482 ] are microcrystalline and exhibit an imperfect micrographic structure , the former having a more porphyritic structure .
It contains a good quantity of plagioclase ( ?
albite ) among its felspars and a few specks of decomposed grown mica .
[ 4458 ] , [ 4472 ] , and [ 4473 ] are reddish rhyolites with a cryptocrystalline ROCK SPECIMENS FROM THE ISLAND OF SOCOTRA .
ground mass , and more or less of a spherulic structure .
The second is a particular interesting example , longish microliths of ferrite-stained felspar being scattered , or irregularly grouped , among clear quartz and occasionally formed into true spherulites , which are often enclosed by a dark ring .
The microliths frequently indicate by their grouping an incipient micrographic structure ( Plate 7 , fig. 4 ) .
[ 4408 ] and [ 4413 ] are rhyolites showing a very marked fluidal structure , the former affording one of the best examples of " flow brecciation " that I have ever seen ; fragments of lava , often differing considerably in their minor characteristics , being entangled in the matrix of the slide , showing that the partially solidified rock from time to time has been broken up and swept along by the pressure of the still liquid mass behind ( Plate 7 , fig. 5 ) .
The rock has been subsequently cracked and the fissures cemented by infiltrated minerals , among which is opal .
The locality of the last two rocks is indicated as " close to Azorah ( almost half way between the north and south coasts ) .
" [ 4446 ] and [ 4448 ] are rocks of a dull purple colour , with small amygdaloids ( Plate 7 , fig. 6 ) .
The matrix consists of very minute elongated felspar micro ] iths in a base , rendered almost opaque with ferrite and opacite ; opal , chalcedony , and a clear mineral resembling felspar occupying the vesicles of the rock .
Its relations are perhaps rather with the andesites than the true trachytes .
[ 4431 ] , from nearer Kittim , where it is associated with conglomerates and forms low hills , looking in places much like a lava flow , differs from the others in colour , being a compact pale grey rock like some of those which I have obtained from Moneadhmore Glen , in Arran , or even from North Wales ; it has a rather variable cryptocrystalline base , ferrite-stained , in which are scattered many small felspar crystals ( probably orthoclase ) , quartz , and a chloritic mineral .
Apart from the confirmatory evidence given by Professor Balfour , I should have felt no hesitation in asserting that some , at least , of these rocks formed parts of lava flows ; they are anterior in date to the limestone beneath which they pass .
From the hill of Afero , which , Professor Balfour states , reminded him of a volcanic neck , west-south-west of Azorah , approaching the eastern end of the Haggier range , come more reddish compact quartz-felsites and rhyolites of the usual type .
A specimen [ 4436 ] which has been examined microscopically exhibits a fluidal structure , in parts cryptocrystalline , in parts rather microcrystalline , and much ferrite-stained ; but it is needless to dwell on points of only varietal interest .
The last specimens from this group of rocks examined microscopically were collected in situ near Feraighey , on the southern side of the Haggier range .
[ 4440 ] is a very compact pale Indian-red felsite , resembling a group described above [ 4458 , \amp ; c. ] , but is a little more spherulitic .
[ 4420 ] is nearer to [ 4446 ] in general character ; there are some curious rounded concretionary spots of opacite , and perhaps one or two minute amygdaloids .
Mica-traps .
From Socotra we have one or two representatives of this outlying and rather vague but convenient group .
One [ 4270 ] is from a dyke forming the floor of a gully on the northern side of the Haggier Mountains , inland from Hadibu .
The gully is excavated in the coarse reddish pegmatite , which is cut by a vein granite [ 4264 ] ( p. 282 ) .
This mica-trap is a rather compact variety consisting of a reddish felspar , mica , and a dull greenish mineral .
Microscopically it consists of felspar , mainly orthoclase , in which are scattered numerous microliths of opacite , hornblende and mica , with larger crystals of brown and white mica , chiefly the former , hematite and hornblende , the last being often crowded with opacite and clear microliths , perhaps apatite .
The rock then is a minette and follows its usual habit of occurring in a dyke or vein .
From the shore west of Hadibu , near the argillites ( p. 289 ) , comes a very minutely crystalline rock of dull-grey colour , which when microscopically examined consists of decomposed felspar , probably plagioclase , altered magnesia-mica , iron peroxide , a little hornblende , apatite ( ?
) , and interstitial quartz .
This then is a kersantite .
From between Kami and the hamlet Ma-aber , on the Motaha , comes a minutely crystalline rock [ 4309 ] associated with felspathic granitoid rocks already mentioned ( p. 276 ) , which consists of pale grey felspar , mica , and some quartz , grains of each occurring porphyritically in the ground mass .
The microscope shows that a good deal of the felspar is plagioclase , some being oligoclase , but orthoclase is also present ; the larger crystals often enclose numerous clear microliths , there is also much biotite and some quartz , with grains of iron peroxide .
The rock then is a quartz-kersantite .
Unaltered clastic rocks .
Passing now to the comparatively unaltered clastic rocks , we have first to notice the agglomerates or conglomerates from the district near Kittim , where they occur in large masses in association with the rhyolites as already described ( p. 277 ) .
There are conglomerates and breccias ( generally rather decomposed ) of a compact red rhyolitic rock , some of which reminded me in appearance of the specimens of late Precambrian age , which are so common to the west-south-west of Bangor , a mile or two from the town.* [ 4437 ] has been examined microscopically .
It is composed of fragments of rhyolitic lava , subangular to rather rounded , with some quartz grains , containing very minute cavities , and a very little of a cementing matrix , which is generally stained with ferrite or viridite .
The lava fragments vary considerably in their structures .
One , containing some small felspar microlites , has a marked fluidal structure , being banded with very dark ferrite ; it is almost certainly a fragment of scoria or from the slaggy exterior of a lava flow ; others exhibit various fluidal and microlithic structures .
Most of them are ferrite stained , and more or less devitrifled : materials derived probably from more than one source .
There are also some grains of viridite , these being probably altered fragments of augite or hornblende .
The rock is a rhyolitic grit , the materials of which are certainly of volcanic origin , but probably ( in this particular case ) have been transported by water .
The resemblance already noticed to the Welsh Precambrian * Quart .
Journ. Geol , Soc. , vol. xxxv .
, p. 309 , and Geol , Mag. , Dec. ii .
, vol. vii .
, p. 298 .
ROCK SPECIMENS FROM THE ISLAND OF SOCOTRA .
rocks does not disappear under the microscope , and I think we have in this group of specimens evidence of volcanoes of very considerable geologic antiquity .
The conglomerates of rhyolite and felsite , which occur as boulders on the Nogad plain ( p. 278 ) , though their materials have been derived from the same group of igneous rocks , are probably far more modern than the last .
These I have not deemed it necessary to examine microscopically .
Breccias and conglomerates of various kinds are not infrequent in Socotra , but generally present no special interest .
Some occur just at the base of the limestone series , others may be quite modern ; subaerial or stream detritus , cemented by tufaceous deposit .
Argillites .
This group of rocks , found underlying the limestone near Hadibu Bay ( p " 276 ) , is one upon the exact nature of which it is difficult to decide .
I am not able to satisfy myself , from the specimens which I have received , whether there is a true cleavage or not ; the rock has a somewhat porcellaneous aspect , as if it were at least of palaeozoic age , but as there appear to be intrusive rocks in the neighbourhood , one hesitates without further evidence to assign it to a remote geologic period .
As , however , there is at the base of the limestone a breccia of fragments , seemingly in the same mineral condition , and as there seems to be an unconformity here , the interval between the two groups of rocks is probably considerable .
Shaly bands are , indeed , said to occur in the lower part of the limestone , but it is possible that these may be formed of detrital material from the older group .
Microscopic examination does not throw much light on the history of the latter .
The specimens are composed of earthy material and minute , rather angular , fragments of a clear mineral ( quartz , with possibly some felspar ) , and a number of exceedingly minute , doubly-refracting , rather highly-tinted granules ; these are probably in some cases a variety of hornblende , in others epidote .
Limestone and dolomite .
Several specimens of the massive limestones which form so much of the upland district in Socotra are among Professor Balfour 's collection .
Generally they are compact in texture , with a clean subconchoidal fracture , buff , whitish , or sometimes pinkish in colour ; in aspect often remarkably like the ordinary dolomitic rock of the Italian Tyrol .
The weathered surfaces are sometimes curiously rough and cavernous .
I have examined microscopically a few specimens from different parts of the island .
The first [ 4168 ] is one of a series collected in the district extending from the head of the Gollonsir Yalley towards the Kadhab Plain .
These are compact in structure with a subconchoidal fracture , buff coloured and pinkish , the former being more crystalline .
The specimen examined is a very pretty pinkish rock that would take a good polish .
It contains numerous organisms , both tolerably perfect and fragmentary , among which MDCCCLXXXIII .
2 V foraminifera abound .
Among these we can recognise ' ' Globigerina ( abundant ) RotalincB\#151 ; probably two forms of Planorbulina , one like and the other outspread like Mediterranensis\#151 ; Textularia(more than one form ) , Amphistegina , and possibly a small Nummulites , with fragments of mollusca , polyzoa ( ?
) , and of other organisms which I cannot recognise .
The matrix is rather earthy .
A specimen [ 4048 ] from the cliff capping the ridge above Hainjou ( west end of the island ) is a very compact pale cream-coloured limestone .
Microscopic examination shows a matrix of dusky grey material , with minutely-crystallized calcite and probably a little dolomite , which occurs also in thin veins , and some minute granules which may be glauconite .
It contains several Rotalince , possibly Planorbulina and , and perhaps Rotalia , together with a large fragment rather resembling a piece of a Cristellaria .
Buff limestones from the Kadhab Plain , [ 4188 ] and [ 4195 ] .
The former contains numerous mineral fragments , apparently quartz and felspar , with organisms broken and whole , among which Amphistegina and are recognisable , and bits of the shells of mollusca .
The organisms are more or less dolomitized .
The latter contains many Globigerince with Amphistegina ( small ) , perhaps an Orbitoides , and fragments of mollusca and polyzoa .
This rock also is slightly dolomitized .
A specimen of limestone [ 4107 ] from the plateau west of Has Mom , near the eastern extremity of Socotra , is a buff-coloured rock with a minute oolitic structure , the weathered surface being full of small holes .
Under the microscope we found a clear dolomitic matrix full of darkish rings , circular to irregular oval in form , with a radial-fibrous structure , and as a nucleus commonly either a fragment of quartz or of a foraminifer , though sometimes they enclose simply the matrix ; sometimes also the concentric structure extends to the centre of the oolitic grain .
[ 4456]\#151 ; a very compact pale buff limestone from the top of Bas Mom , in appearance almost exactly like a bit of Schlern or Dachstein dolomite , is shown on microscopic examination to be a true dolomite .
It contains numerous organisms , which , as is commonly the case , are more completely dolomitized than the matrix , and so rendered rather difficult of identification .
There are many foraminifera , among them certainly Amphistegina , and perhaps Nummulites , Glowith fragments which I believe to be polyzoa .
As regards the geologic age of these limestones , Globegerina has had a long existence , like Textularia ; Nummulites began long since , and still lingers , but was most abundant in the eocene time ; Orbitoides began in cretaceous and disappeared before the latest part of the tertiary age ; Amphistegina , however , wdiich is one of the most * * As I have not worked much at thin sections of foraminiferal limestone , I submitted all these slides to Professor Rupert Jones , F.R.S. With his wonted kindness , though at the time far from well , he examined them and gave me a series of notes , which are embodied in the text , so that the identifications rest upon his authority , than which it would be difficult to find a better .
hock : specimens from the ISLAND OF SOCOTRA .
abundant foraminifers in these rocks , ranges from the miocene upwards , hence it is probable that the age of these Socotra limestones is miocene .
Conclusion .
From the above remarks it would appear that in Socotra we have , as the foundation stones and " core " of the island , if the phrase be permissible , a mass of rock of very-great antiquity .
There is clear evidence of the presence of gneissic rocks which in their lithological characters resemble closely those which exist in the north-west of Scotland , the Malvern Hills and one or two other localities in our own island , in Northern America , and in many other parts of the globe .
By whatever name these may be called , and however they may be correlated one with another , it is evident that their antiquity is enormously great , and that they had attained their present mineral condition before the earliest palaeozoic rocks were deposited .
Associated with these are granites , which , though of later date , are probably also of great antiquity .
In the Sinai peninsula we have also gneiss , schists , and various granitic rocks .
Of the latter I possess a small collection , given to me by Professor E. H. Palmer , '* and the resemblance of some of the specimens to those of Socotra is very remarkable .
In the geological notes added by the Bev .
F. W. Holland to the Beport of the Ordnance Survey ( ch .
viii .
) we find it stated , indeed , that the prevailing rock , in the Sinai region , is syenite ( by which term probably hornblendic granite is meant ) , so that out of several hundred specimens he only possessed two or three of true granite .
This may be , but my specimens from the summits of Serbal , of Jebel Musa , and Um Shomer closely resemble some of the Socotra rocks , especially the first and second , which are coarse reddish granites composed almost wholly of quartz and felspar ( pegmatites ) .
From the summit of Serbal also comes a finer grained granite , and I have an ordinary granite from Wady Sigillia .
Other specimens , exactly as in the Socotra collection , might be either true igneous or highly metamorphic rock .
In the Sinai region the old gneiss appears only to have been recognised in the northern part , where it forms an irregular trough to the north of Jebel Serbal , the higher peaks ( like the Haggier range in Socotra ) being granite .
I miss , however , from the Socotra district , or find but feebly represented\#151 ; for there is one specimen which may belong to it\#151 ; the friable variably-coloured sandstones which form so marked a feature in some parts of the Sinaitic peninsula ( e.g. , Wady Mokatteb)t .
These , after having been assigned to more than one geological epoch , were referred by Mr. Holland , on the evidence of fossils , to the * * He was a member of the Sinai Survey Expedition in 1868-9 .
Two months after this paper was read , he was murdered by Arabs .
The circumstances of his death are well known , but I may be allowed to pay a passing ' tribute to the memory of a singularly accomplished and learned man and very valued friend .
t This absence of the sandstone is probably an accident ( the rock being very friable ) , for Professor Balfour mentions " purple sandstones " ( see p. 275 ) .
2 p 2 carboniferous .
In Sinai , as in Socotra , we have huge masses of limestone , which in ]ike way form great plateaux\#151 ; as , for example , the Tih\#151 ; and were deposited in an ocean , in which the well-known peaks of Sinai probably formed rocky islands , but deposition there commenced at an earlier period than we can venture with the evidence at present before us to claim for Socotra , for the limestones of Sinai are assigned to part of the cretaceous and to the eocene age ; the Nummulitic limestone , for example , being finely developed as in Wady Dhaghadeh .
Coraliferous beds of miocene age are , however , found in that region .
' " ' The rocks of Sinai are cut by dykes of " basalt , greenstone , and porphyrite , " the first of which , as in Socotra , are probably comparatively modern , but we do not find there , so far as I can learn , representatives of the great group of the quartz-felsites and rhyolites which seem so enormously developed in Socotra and were certainly connected with active volcanos .
The geological age of these cannot be determined .
They are undoubtedly older than the limestone group ; so that , if no part of this is earlier than the middle tertiary , they might belong to any geological period between that and the latest Precambrian , to the volcanic rocks of which they have , indeed , considerable resemblance .
I am not aware that the " argillite " of Socotra\#151 ; of which I can only say that it is older than the limestone\#151 ; is represented in Sinai .
As here , so also in Socotra , there are basalts of comparatively late geologic age\#151 ; p0St miocene\#151 ; and in the latter some compact trachytic rocks , which , however , differ from the older rhyolites , and are generally paler in colour .
We have , then , in Socotra , as it seems to me , evidence of rocks of an immense , and a land surface of a very great , antiquity .
Excepting this argillite of uncertain age and limited extent , and perhaps some sandstone ( also local ) , there is no evidence in the specimens before me to show that this island was submerged during any part of the palaeozoic or mesozoic period . !
During the kainozoic it undoubtedly shared in the downward movement which , affected so large a portion of the globe in and about the North African and mid-Asiatic districts ; but I should infer that the invasion of the sea commenced much earlier in the Sinaitic peninsula , and think it possible that the topmost peaks of the Haggier Mountains were at no time wholly submerged .
As it again rose from the waves\#151 ; perhaps being for a while connected with the African continent\#151 ; the meteoric forces resumed their work of sculpture and the waves began their work of insulation .
Since then the fauna and flora have undergone their own modifications , but in the Haggier Hills we have probably a fragment of a continental * Bauerman , Quart .
Jour .
Geol .
Soc. , vol. xxv .
, p. 37 .
t " Africa south of the Sahara was probably a stable area during many of the alterations of the relative levels of land and sea of the north and of Europe."\#151 ; Professor P. M. Duncan , Presidential Address to Geol .
Soc. 1877 , Journal , vol. xxxiii .
, p. 86 ( Proceedings ) .
West of the Sinai Peninsula old schists and granite crop out in Egypt , and east of it on the opposite side of the Gulf of Akabah , flanked in both cases by " Nubian sandstone .
" See the map attached to the Presidential Address to the Geologists ' Association ( delivered November 3 , 1882 ) , by Mr. W. H. Hudleston ( Proceedings , vol. viii .
, p. I ) , *n which is given an admirable summary of the Geology of Palestine and the neighbouring districts .
hock specimens fhom me island of socotha .
area of great antiquity and of a land surface which may have been an " ark of refuge " to a terrestrial fauna and flora from one of the very earliest periods of this world 's history .
Description of Plates .
PLATE 6 .
Sketch map of Socotra .
' ' The information at the Author 's disposal has not enabled him to attempt to lay down the geological boundaries with any accuracy or to insert minor features , such as dykes , \amp ; c. It will be understood that the rock in the parts left blank ( except where alluvial plains occur ) is limestone of approximately middle tertiary age .
Only the more important names are placed on the map\lt ; PLATE 7 .
1 .
Labrador diorite from base of Azalin ( p. 281 ) X 20 .
( a. ) Labrador felspar , in parts rather decomposed ; the striping is indicated as when a polarizing apparatus is used .
This has consolidated before the hornblende .
( c. ) The sap-green hornblende , within which is a crystal of iron oxide , probably ilmenite , and the pyroxenic constituent ( ) of the text .
Since writing this I have noticed that one of the two vertical sections of the mineral extinguishes when the cleavage lines coincide with the vibration planes , and is rather dichroic , giving reddish and greenish tints , according as the vibration of the polarized beam is perpendicular to or parallel with the cleavage lines of the mineral .
The cross sections , though much resembling augite , are rather abnormal in some respects .
Thus , though the evidence is insufficient for certainty , I think it possible that we have here the rhombic pyroxene ( hypersthene X ) lately described by Mr. Whitman Cross ( ' Amer .
Jour .
Science , ' Feb. , 1883 ) and Mr. Teall ( ' Geol .
Mag. , ' Dec. ii .
, vol. x. , p. 145 ) .
2 .
Vein granite from the slopes above Hadibu ( p. 283 ) X 20 .
The figure contains two crystals , selected from different parts of the slide , to represent those crystals which while resembling hornblende in cleavage have optical characteristics agreeing with tourmaline .
They are extremely dichroic , changing from a clear sap-green to a blue-black .
294 ON ROCK SPECIMENS FROM THE ISLAND OF SOCOTRA .
3 .
Junction of felsite and granite .
Haggier range , near Adona ( p. 285 ) X 20 .
( # .
) Very compact felsite .
( 6 .
) Crushed granite .
( c. ) Granite .
Drawn with polarized light .
4 .
Rhyolite with spherulites .
Azorah district ( p. 287 ) X 40 .
Selected as a fairly typical example of a rather frequent type of rock .
5 .
Rhyolite exhibiting " flow brecciation , " near Azorah ( p. 287 ) X 20 .
The dark streaky part ( a ) is the general ground mass of the rock in which fragments are entangled ; ( b ) exhibits small lath-like crystals of a decomposed felspar in a ferrite stained ground mass somewhat resembling that of the last slide ; ( c ) exhibits a minute " speckled " devitrification structure ; ( d ) with a high power exhibits minute felspar microlites crowding a dark ferrite-stained base , while in the centre of the slide is a fragment showing a well-marked fluidal structure , the lighter parts of which are devitrified .
It is of course possible that some of the fragments may be entangled lapilli , but the absence of a slaggy border and the general cleanness of their edges corresponds better with the idea of their having formed parts of the flow .
6 .
" Trachyte " with minute amygdaloidal cavity .
Near Azorah ( p. 287 ) X 30 .
The minute felspar microliths are slightly more evident in the slide than in the drawing , and one or two of the cavities are larger than that figured , but unfortunately their contents have partly torn away in grinding .
N One css appearing on low ground , from , beneath^ cv general capping of Limas torw Chiefly GraniteMMMiMiiW Arei lliifce 4* Rhyolite .
Jc Felsite with ( ?
) Agglomerate m ... .

