pinx ? .
Cambridge Engraving pinxt .
Cambridge Engraving [ 319 ] VIII .
The Process of Secretion the Skin of the Common Eel .
By E. Waymouth Reid , Professor of Physiology in University College , , St. Andrew 's Un , N.B. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. P.S. Received April 18 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1893 .
[ Plates 30-33 .
] Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .* * . .
' \ ' ... .
S 1 .
Formed elements in the slime of the Eel . . .
... ... .
S2 .
The structure of the epidermis . .
I \#166 ; .
* . . .
* ( a ) Teased preparations of normal epidermis .
( i. ) Club cells . . . . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
( ii .
) Ordinary epidermic cells . . . .
* .
... ... ... ... .
( iii .
) Goblet cells . . . . .
* * . . . .
* ( iv .
) Connective tissue cells . . . . . . . .
* * * ( v. ) Fibroblasts . . . . . .
... ... ... ( y3 ) Sections of normal epidermis .
( a ) The palisade cells ... ... .
1 .
Origin of club cells from palisade cells ... ... ... ... ... . .
2 .
Origin of goblet cells from palisade cells . . . .
3 .
Origin of ordinary epidermic cells from palisade cells . .
( 1 ) The club cells at various levels . . . . . .
* ( c ) The goblet cells . . . . . . .
* . .
( d ) The fibroblasts ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
' ' * ' ( e ) The formed connective tissue cells .
\#187 ; . .
* ... ... ... . .
Addendum to S ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
S 3 .
The origin of the formed elements of the slime . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
S 4 .
The histological appearances of artificially stimulated skins ... ... .
( ?
) Teased preparations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ( ?
) Sections ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
( i. ) Chloroform vapour method of stimulation .
( a ) Changes in the club cells . . . . . . . .
( y3 ) Production of goblet cells ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
( jy ' ) Passage of fibroblasts into the epidermis .
( ii .
) Stimulation by faradization . . .
... ... ... ... ... . .
( iii .
) Mechanical stimulation ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Page . .
320 . .
325 .
\gt ; 327 . .
327 . .
330 . .
331 . .
331 . .
331 . .
332 . .
332 . .
333 . .
334 . .
334 . .
336 . .
336 . .
337 . .
337 . .
338 . .
339 . .
340 . .
340 . .
340 . .
341 . .
342 , .
342 . .
343 2.5.94 Page Note on action of atropine ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .^43 Conclusion ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..^^4 Appendix re histological procedure ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..3w\lt ; Bibliography ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
^46 Description of plates .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Introduction .
We owe to Leydig ( 1 ) the first demonstration that a secretory process is a possibility for the skin of the Fish .
In some twelve genera he described the occurrence of specialized cells in the epidermis , to which he gave the common name of " Schleim-zellen , " though subsequent research has shown that several varieties of structure were included in this generic term .
Kolliker ( 2 ) in 1860 , in an investigation .
of the skins of Myxine and , differentiated two cell-forms .
Observing the " thread bodies " of the mucous sacs of Myxine , first clearly described by Johannes Muller ( 3 ) , he recognized their cellular nature , and found that the epidermis held similar , though less complex cells , from whose contents also , by appropriate treatment , a thread could be obtained .
To thd| epidermic cells of Myxine the name " Fadenzellen " was applied .
In addition , clear or finely granular cells , termed " Schleimzellen , " were described .
B The cells in the epidermis of Petromyzon , considered as the analogues of the " Schleimzellen " of Myxine , were described as " keulenformige , " with a vesicular space at the swollen end holding a pair of nuclei , and with elongated neck , " nnt zarten , haufig leieht wellenformig gebogenen Langstreifen verse en _ sec0# special form was taken as corresponding with the " Fadenzelh Globular m sha[e ' but supplied with a long thread-like process , it appeared to be filled with granules , which , however , were considered by Kolukee to be the optica expression of a closely-wound thread included in the cell .
The name " ^ornerzehen was given* these structures .
A secretory function was considered probable for the Schlem zellen " of both Myxine and Petromyzon , but there are no direct observ p ^ SPA^yearTater , Max Schultze ' ( 4 ) reinvestigated the structure of the skin of the Salj^ the case of Petromyzon he renamed Kolliker 's " Schleimzellen , Kolbenfe " \#163 ; a , bM= " \#171 ; SECRETION IN THE SKIN OF THE COMMON EEL .
itractile , on account of the points of similarity to striated muscle fibre presented by 3 neck viewed by polarized light .
Similar structures were also briefly described for the epidermis of the Eel and nch .
Max Schultze further showed that these " Kolben " are the analogues of the ^adenzellen " of Myxine , and not of the " Schleimzellen , " as Kolliker supposed , 3 " Kornerzellen " being identical with the latter .
Heinrich Muller ( 5 ) , in 1864 , was the first to observe in planeri it the " club cells " ( Kolben ) do not necessarily retain their connection with the .ium , as Max Schultze stated .
From observations of the variations in number , ipe , and position in the epidermis , he supposed that these cells are liable to extru-n .
Thus ( p. 44 ) : " Es findet diess in der Art statt , dass es sehr nahe liegt , eine )stossung der Gebilde mit oder ohne Wiedersatz anzunehmen " ( italics in original ) .
3 did not , however , actually observe this extrusion .
He expresses himself as posed to the assumption of a nervous connection , and considers these structures as \gt ; dified epithelial cells of uncertain function .
The work of Kolliker , Max Schultze , and H. Muller had been chiefly upon the ree species of Petromyzon , and , in the case of the two former observers , upon Myxine 50 .
F. E. Schulze ( 6 ) , in 1867 , extended our knowledge of the epidermis of Fish by .
investigation of fifteen genera , including P .
Three forms of specialized 11s\#151 ; one of which , however , was found peculiar to Petromyzon were described .
( 1 .
) " Becherzellen , " found in all the genera taken , characterised by possession of a stinct " theca , " filled in the fresh state with granules imbedded in a more fluid mass , id whose secretory activity was actually observed and figured in the case of the irbel of Cobitis fossilis ( Plate 7 , fig. 3 ) , and seen also in the skin of the caudal fin id head of small Eels .
An account is , moreover , given of an Eel dropped upon a \#187 ; ndy floor , relieving itself of the casing of adherent grit , in the form of a tube with imy interior , after replacement in water .
( 2 .
) \lt ; e Kolben , " seen only in Tinea , Leuciscus , Cobitis , Anguilla , Esox , Silurus , and yetromyzon .
( Leydig ( 1 ) had previously investigated the first five of these genera , and , since e gave no special description of " club cells , " must have included both " Kolben and Becherzellen " under the one term " Schleimzellen .
" ) In dealing with the important point as to whether the " club cells are permanently ixed to the cutis or capable of passage to the surface , F. E. Schulze describes them is breaking away from the cutis in all cases except in the Lamprey and Eel .
( He igures , however , a case in the Eel in Plate 7 , fig. 7 , but considers it pathological .
) in the Tench the " club cells " near the surface become irregularly rounded or flattened , and the possibility of their extrusion is mentioned .
Thus , p. 160 : " Solche veranderte Kolben habe ich vielfach dicht unter der aussersten Zellenlage gefunden , so dass wohl MDCCCXCIV , \#151 ; B. 2 T kein Zweifel dariiber bestelien kann , dass sie beim Ausfallen einer daruberliegeaden Zelle selbst auf die Oberflache des Fiscbes gelangen .
" F. E. Schulze considered the " club cells " as secretory in nature , and as possibly forming a sebaceous matter ( Talgd.ru .
S6n ) .
He could not substantiate IMax .
Schultze 's statement regarding the presence of transverse striation in the neck .
( 3 .
) The " Kornerzellen " of the Lamprey were more closely described by F. E. Schulze , their processes being considered as due to tubular prolongations of a cell membrane , yet as passing within the body of the cell to become united by a junction piece resembling the head of a pair of compasses .
They were considered to be sense cells , but no nerve connection was demonstrated .
Langerhans ( 7 ) , in his monograph on planeri , failed to observe the " club cells " dear of the corium .
The most interesting point , however , in bis description of the skin of this Fish , is the recognition of a form of cell not hitherto described .
Under the name " kleine Rundzellen , " pp. 16 and 17 , he notes cells resembling lymphocytes as occurring between the other elements of the epidermis .
These are figured in Plate 1 , fig. 11 , as of from 4 to 5 p , in diameter , and possessed of scanty protoplasm .
He considers that these cells represent chromatophores which have not developed pigment .
To A. Fcettinger ( 8 ) ( 1876 ) is due a valuable paper upon the epidermis ot Petromyzon .
The most important point in connection with this paper is the complete corroboration of Heinrich Muller 's statement as regards solution of continuer between the " club cells " and the corium , and , further , the actual demonstration that these bodies escape from the epidermis , and may be found lying upon its surface ( Plate 2 , figs. 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 ; Plate 3 , fig. 37 ) .
Thus , p. 629 : " la massue entire ou tout au moins la party qui se colore en jaune par le picrocarmmate dammomaqae est eliminde .
" The process of extrusion was carefully followed .
A vacuolation between the surface of the club and an enveloping membrane is sa , d to occur , loosening it by the formation of a network of granular \#187 ; ater^ ( Plate^ fig 1 ) An accumulation of fluid in the spaces of this network , especially at its lower part , U considered to force the " club cell " upwards , leaving its J In the passage out the nuclei disappear , and are always absent from _ ^ He agrees with P. E. Schtjlze as regards the structure of t e go .
, ^ does not agree with this observer as regards the nervous nature of the " ^ The characters of the goblet cells common to the epidermis of all Fish h^e be _ especially described by List ( 9 ) , who , while describing the ''footed and .
forms of F. E. ScHULzi , further subdivides the latter in o s a o .
^ # stalked " varieties , the stalk being merely a P^ngation of the^tl\#171 ; ao^e ^ ^ List differentiates the contents o t e ecamoa meghes of the \#153 ; extruded'when thegoUe ' SECRETION IN THE SKIN OF THE COMMON EEL .
aches the surface by a turgor of the interfilar material as the result of imbibition of Leydig ( 10 ) in a later paper has given a few more details of interest in connection ith this communication .
In the lower layers of the epidermis of two Batrachian larvae ( Pelobatesfascus and yla arborea ) , he describes and figures cells holding much convoluted threads , which casionally pass beyond the border of the cell .
He compares these to the " Baden-lien " of Myxine , and terms them " Byssuszellen .
" Eberth ( 11 ) had previously sscribed very similar cells in the epidermis of the larva of Bombinator igneus ( see peeially Plate 25 , figs. 19 and 24 , of his paper ) .
Leydig admits the membrane described by Fcettinger for the " club cells , " and cribes Max Schultze 's transverse striation to folds of this structure ( Plate 7 , fig. 7 ) .
e notes too , in the " club cells " of Petromyzon marinus an appearance of tangled treads .
' He considers both the " club cells " and " Kornerzellen " of Petromyzon as cretory in nature .
# Frjtsch ( 12 ) , in his account of the epidermis of , describes four irieties of cells ' : ( a ) " Kolbenzellen , " ( 6 ) " Becherzellen , " ( c ) " gewohnliclie Epiderliszellen , " and ( d ) " Kornzellen .
" .
" He considers the " club cells " to be secretory in function , and m his figure Plate 8 , fig. 25 ) indicates a point where these cells have escaped from the epidermis , nd also " club cells , " the contents of whose " vacuoles " have been discharged .
The goblet cells arise , he thinks , from the ordinary epidermic cells of the middle liars .
The ordinary epidermic cells are characterised by the possession of a vesicular " nucleus which is poor in chromatin , and in strong contrast to that of he fourth variety , viz. , the " Kornzellen .
" These " Kornzellen " which are evidently he " kleine Bundzellen " of Langerhans ( 7 ) , are very similar to ordinary lympho-ytes .
List ( 13 ) has figured similar cells in the epidermis of Cobitis fomits , and considers that they are of the nature of the wandering cells described by Stohr ( 14 ) n the surface epithelium of the tonsil .
Fritsch makes no very definite statement of opinion as regards the origin an a e 3f these cells .
In his description of Plate 8 , fig. 25 , he marks them f yet in the text he expresses himself as opposed to List 's hypothesis that they are wandering cells in the ordinary sense of the term , since he failed , in contradistinctio to the latter observer , to find these cells between the fibres of the corium .
Fritsch did not see any evidences of division of these cells , though List gures forms which he takes to represent such a process .
On the whole , he inclines to the rather curious view that they supply the most superficial epidermic scales .
, Still more recently Pogojeff ( 15 ) , who appears to have been ignorant of t e wor* of Fcettinger , has written on the structure of the epidermis of Petromyzon .
t e use of gold chloride he sees a violet staining fibril within each club cell connecte with two cells , the whole being surrounded by endothelial sheaths after the manner of a Pacinian corpuscle .
He thus agrees with the old idea of Max Schultze , that " club cells " represent the end apparatus of cutaneous nerves , and considers that his failure to observe solution ot continuity between the lower ends of the club cells " and the corium supports this view .
He strangely enough maintains that the statement that the " club cells " leave the corium has arisen from observation of oblique sections 1 He agrees with Kolliker in considering the " Kornerzellen " of the epidermis of this Fish to be of the nature of unicellular glands .
It will be evident from the above brief account of the work of previous observers that an anatomical basis for a secretory process of considerable complexity h| peculiar nature exists in the epidermis of many Fish .
The skin , apart from its protective and sensory functions , which are not here under consideration , may also fairly be considered as a glandular surface of special construction , and the absence of localised collections of secretory cells provided with ducts such as we find in higl^H Vertebrates is no basis for the statement occasionally met with that " the skins of Fishes are non-glandular .
" Unicellular secreting structures whose function it is to supply the slime bedewing the surface of the animal are abundant in the epidermis , and in the special case of the Myxinoid Fishes these unicellular structures actually become collected to form glands in the commonly accepted sense of the term .
In none of the above researches is any mention made of the payment of special attention to the condition of secretory activity of the skin at the moment that tlH specimen was fixed for histological purpose .
To this is to be attributed to a arge extent the divergence of opinion concerning the functions of the " club cel s \#171 ; particular .
Nor , except in the well-known case of ( 32 ) , has the fresh slime o\#187 ; the Fish been subjected to the microscope .
HI Chance stimulation , due to handling in capture , varying in amount in different cases , must have accelerated the normal secretory process more in some cases than tm others , and produced a change in the histological picture and the physiologic^ deduction therefrom .
In no case , as far as I am aware , has direct experiments .
propel\#153 ; the ^following pages to give an account of the secretory process in the-skin of the common Eel , deduced , in the first place , from the histological appeai-ances at various levels of the epidermis and the formed elements of the slime , and , in the second nlace from those changes that can be artificially produced by experiment^ irritation " S^Jcare has been bestowed upon the Fish in order that the condrtion of the ^Thef animals^ere^way^cau^ht^without a hook , and were kept some days after SECRETION IK THE SKIN OF THE COMMON EEL .
325 jj removed without reflex movement ( and concomitant reflex secretory action ) during |e period of persistence of the condition of " shock .
" JA Fish that struggles , from failure to strike the right place at once , becomes a diming " Fish , and is useless for a picture of the slow process of normal secretion , ; ough useful for that of some of the higher phases of the act .
The methods of artificial stimulation will be found under their appropriate ladings , and the histological procedure in the Appendix .
R X. Formed Elements o the Slime of the Eel .
Seeing that the secretory structures of the skins of Fish are not provided with ducts , aere is no method of escape for the secreted material , except by actual casting off of the superficial epidermic scales .
The slime , therefore , always contains numbers of pidermic scales , unavoidably thrown off in the process of its formation .
For purpose of collection of the secreted matters , three methods have been mployed___(1 ) Placing the animal in a bath of pilocarpine solution ; ( 2 ) Subjecting he animal to faradization ; ( 3 ) exposing the Eel to the vapour of chloroform .
By he first and second methods it is possible to collect little " flocks " of secreted matter , s they rise from the surface of the Fish ; in the third method , the secretory activity 3 very energetic , and the passage of a blunt scalpel gently over the surface of the fish removes abundant material .
Apart from the epidermic scales above mentioned , the following formed elements ire present in the secretion collected by any of the above methods , ( a ) 1 breads , b ) Nuclei ; ( c ) Granules ; ( d ) Goblet cells .
( a. ) Threads of the Slime.\#151 ; These structures occur singly m much convoluted masses ( Plate 31 , fig. 14 ) , or more extended , but generally in the form of masses of more finely fibrillated material ( Plate 30 , fig. 1 ) .
The extraordinarily tenacious character of the slime is undoubtedly associated with the presence of these threa The most pronounced case of a thread secretion in Vertebrates is , ot course , t e well-known instance of the Myxinoid Fishes , where the threads are known to arise by a metamorphosis of the specialized " Kolben , " contained in the ventral slime g an s ( Kolliker ( 2 ) , Max Schultze ( 4 ) , also Blomfield ( 16 ) ) .
Thread-like structures within epidermic cells are also described , by Eberth ( 11 ) , in the lower layer of the epidermis of the larva of Bombinator igneus , and , by Fevmg ( 10 ) , in the epidermis of the larva of Pelobates fuscus and Hyla arborea , thoug neither observer noted their escape in a secretion .
An able account of ma y ectodermic thread secretions in Invertebrates and their possible relation to t found inVertebrates has been given by Eisig ( 17 ) , from which it is evident t at sue threads may be used for the construction of protective tubes ( , certain Annelids , Insect larvae ) , for catching prey ( , Spiders ) , or for at^ac meant to a fixed object ( Byssus of Eamellibranchiate Molluscs ) .
The thread o 326 PROFESSOR E. W. REID ON THE PROCESS OF Sea Stickleback ( Gasterosteusspinachia ) , used for nest building , has been shown , by Mobius ( 18 ) , to be a secretion of the renal epithelium .
The use of the threads in the secretion of the Eel appears to be to ensure.that the slime shall adhere to any object with which it is brought in contact .
The threads have the following characters .
The breadth of the coarsest may be from 2 p to 3 p , but all conditions of finer fibrillation are found , the finest fibrils being beyond accurate measurement .
Usually present in wavy masses of the finest fibrils entangling other elements , one often , especially when the pilocarpine method is used , comes across convoluted masses of the coarser variety .
The extremities are often wound in a corkscrew fashion ( Plate 30 , fig. 1 , on the right ) . . . .
_ , . .
They are unchanged by induction shocks applied to fresh material .
Do not swell in water .
Readily give the xantho-proteic reaction .
Resist digestion with pepsin and hydrochloric acid , and with trypsin and sodic carbonate .
One per cent sodic hydrate leaves them unaffected .
Osmic acid darkens them slightly .
Treated with picro-carmine , they stain brilliant yellow ( Plate 30 , fig. 1 ) .
They are thus composed of some albuminoid material of very resistant nature , \#171 ; *.\#187 ; * .
*-\gt ; t- \gt ; -7 : diameter from 2 / x to 4 '5 / * , and are generally spherical , but occasionally ovoi ( a e , ^No distinct chromatin network or filament was seen , though these nuclei take most dyes easily .
In no case could a cell body be distinguished , though , at times , a group was met with surrounded by a flocculent material .
\#166 ; ' .
, .
, , ( c. ) Granules of the Slime.-Small spherical granules ( 75 p to p ) abound m fresh slime , and can be preserved upon cover-glass preparations .
They present SwdlTn one per cent , sodfc hydrate , but do not dissolve .
Do not dissolve easily m water ( still clearly outlined in slime kept a day in water ) .
Are not \#171 ; j per cent sodic chloride solution containing five per cent , of acetic acid " peptuc TdCt c digestion .
Are present on cover-glass preparations after treatment with Toflfathofand ether .
iLve^lass prepays treated ^ ^ Th.j * - - * - \#151 ; blue and carmine.* . . .
tzzxz fore , of the nature of nucleo-albumin .
SECRETION IN THE SKIN OF THE COMMON EEL .
( d ) Goblet cells .
\#151 ; Extruded goblet cells occur in the slime , though rather rarely , heir characteristics will be entered into below in connection with the elements of T^pi^icsclles found in the slime are flattened scales , devoid of " prickles " ; ie cell body , punctated with fine dark granules , measures from 15 / x X 10 yx up to 8 ix X 12 / x ; the nucleus is large and vesicular , and measures from 5 / x X 4 / x to 2 ix X 6 / x. There is no evidence of any mucinous change in the protoplasm of these dls , and the cell bodies refuse to give the reddish-violet reaction with thiomn .
All the above elements of the slime are seen in Plate 30 , fig. 1 .
In addition , however , mucin is undoubtedly present in " solution " in the slime , for ilute alkaline extracts give a precipitate with acetic acid , insoluble m excess , an non long boiling with two per cent. H2S04 , a substance reducing Fehling 's fluid is \gt ; rmed .
Furthermore , in cover-glass preparations , one gets streaks and nets o a material distinguishable from the threads by taking the carmine instead of the picric Cid of picro-carmine , staining reddish-violet with thionin , and also giving the orange-Bd colour with saffranine , described , by Paneth ( 21 ) , as characteristic of mucin .
The slime is alkaline to litmus , but , curiously , will not affect phenolphthalem , a oint which I have also noticed with Myxine ( 37 ) .
S 2 .
The Structure o the Epidermis .
Before attempting to account for the origin of the elements of the slime just [ escribed , it is necessary to detail the structure of the epidermis .
In this accoun hall describe the epidermis as it appears in its lowest phase of secretory activity as irepared by the method mentioned on pp. 324 and 325 , and this condition wi e poken of as " normal " in contrast to the condition evoked by artificial excitation , which will be designated " stimulated .
, , " The structure of the normal epidermis has been investigated by the two methods ot teasing and section-cutting , and will be described under two appropriate headings .
( a. ) Teased Preparations .
Fresh teased preparations are not successful , the tenacious slimy nature of the epidermis not allowing sufficient separation of the elements .
I have t ere^ resorted to maceration in Panvier 's " third part alcohol , with subsequent sta n g , and teasing in dilute glycerine , or making cover-glass preparations of the macerate material with subsequent staining .
( 1 .
) The club cells\#151 ; These curious cells are always the most conspicuous element in teased preparations .
The great variety of form and size of these bodies , in icatmg that they are subject to continual metamorphosis in the process of their deve opment , will be evident from a glance at some of the forms shown in Plate 3i . .
A medium stage in development will be the most convenient point from which to commence description .
In such condition the club cells are pyriform with much elongated stalk , the total cell being from 50 y to 100 / x in length , the greatest breadth 15 to 30 tapering below to a blunt end varying from 2 nto 10 jx across .
The stalk is beset with small projections , giving it a " shaggy " appearance under the high power .
Within the upper expanded part of the club is seen a vesicle , bordered by a lattice work of clear material in stout struts , and filled with finely granular matter .
This vesicle is as a rule ovoid , its longer axis coinciding with that of the club and measuring from 12 [ jlto 13 ju , in the long , and 9 p , to 20 fi in the short diameter .
One nucleus with distinct nucleolus is always present , resting against the wall of the vesicle , but two such nuclei often occur ( figs. 15a and b , Plate 31 ) .
At the lower end of the vesicle the protoplasm of the stalk of the club presents a central core of material more granular than the peripheral parts , and this core may extend for variable distances into the stalk , often reaching nearly to the lower end .
It is not however necessary to find one vesicle only , two such may be present ( figs. 16a and 166 , Plate 31 ) , and in such cases each holds a nucleus .
As regards action of dyes , the most marked reaction is that with picro-carmine , in which the material of the stalk and walls of the vesicle stains brilliant yellow ( similar to the threads of the slime ) , while the nucleus stains red , the contents of the vesicle usually remaining colourless .
This reaction has already been noted by Fcettinger ( 8)|j for the club cells of Petromyzon .
With the Biondi mixture , the body of the club takes the acid fuchsin , the contents of the vesicle and the nucleus the methyl green .
| Among these comparatively simple club cells are found others which evidently represent further stages in development .
1 Apparently two somewhat different processes may occur , though in the end both lead to the same net result , viz. , the production from the cell body of a convoluted or spiral fibre ( " fibre-mass " ) which is capable of subsequent further division into fibrils , and the extrusion of the contents of the vesicle in the process of development of the fibre .
_ J In both processes the final result is obtained , by the vacuolation and canalization of the material of the upper part of the body of the club , proceeding generally fro11* below upwards and from the regions in the immediate proximity of the periphery of the vesicle towards the surface .
^ # , !
The variation in the process above alluded to , lies in this , that an incomplete s e of the original club body material may be left adherent round the vesicle , so that when set free it appears as a cell with nucleus and cell wall composed of the club cell body material ( formation of " escape cell " ) , or , on the other hand the vacuolation may be more complete and so free the contents of the vesicle with little adherent matter ( formation of " escape mass ) .
, ' . .
" r The first process , viz. , the formation of an " escape cell , is ljlustra e m gs .
a , ad c Plate 31 .
In 176 it is evident that the superficial lattice work round the " iginal vesicle comes away with it as an outer coat to the " escape cell .
It would ppear probable that this lattice work is the result of the erosion of the club body laterial immediately in contact with the wall of the vesicle , in the process of acuolation that leads up to its escape . .
Cells bearing such a superficial lattice-work-like thickening of the cell membrane ave been described in the epidermis of certain larval Amphibians , and are generally nown as " Leydig 's cells .
" Originally described by Leydig ( 22 ) as " Schleimzellen " I the larva of Proteus and Salamander , the description in the latter animal was ubsequently supplemented by Langerhans ( 23 ) , Flemming ( 24 ) , Pfitzner ( 25 ) , ^d List ( 9 ) .
List described them also in the larva of , and CARRiisRE ( 26 ) , ad Paulicki ( 27 ) in Siredon pisciformis , the latter observer naming them ' Netzzellen .
" Leydig ( 28 ) too has more recently again given a description for the \gt ; ells in larval Salamander ( see especially his fig. 25 , Plate 31 ) .
' The rib-like thickenings of the cell membrane were seen by Pfitzner in the living jpidermis , and are not , therefore , due to a precipitation by reagents as Flemming mpposed .
Flemming and Paulicki , moreover , showed that the nucleus of these 3ells is not necessarily " incised " as Langerhans originally described .
The fate and function of the cells in larval Amphibians is quite unknown .
They at any rate , however , belong exclusively to the period of aquatic life ( Pfitzner and Paulicki ) , and during that period undergo division ( Flemming , Pfitzner , and Paulicki ) .
These " escape cells " are frequently found isolated in teased preparations of the Eel 's skin , and in many cases bear a striking resemblance to the figures of the Leydig 's cells of larval Amphibians given by the above authors .
Figs. 21 , 22 , and 23 , Plate 31 , are illustrative of the structure of these cells , and are all drawn to the same scale .
The size is very variable , 65p .
X 50 , x to 20 p X 12/ r , the majority , however , having an average size of 40/ x x 30 p. .
The lattice wor takes the picric acid of picro-carmine , suggesting that it is of the same composition as the club cell body material , while the granular contents stain faintly pink , i e larger specimens ( figs. 2lot and 6 ) generally bear attached a convoluted piece o " thread mass , " to be shortly described .
Occasionally these cells bear distinct traces of the method by which they have been shelled out by a process of vacuolation , bearing attached some of the bars of the lattice originally formed m the substance ot the head of the club ( figs. 22a , b , and c ) .
Two nuclei are often present ( figs. 226 , 23a ) , though whether this is due to origin from the vesicle of a bi-nuclear club or to subsequent division is not clear , though nuclei with two nucleoli ( fig. 23 ) wou seem to suggest the latter as a possibility .
X have never seen any mitotic gures , however , in these nuclei .
In other cases the nucleus is found on the point of being extruded ( figs. 23 , c , and d ) .
In the second process of development ot the club cell , viz. , the pioduction o an mdcccxciv.\#151 ; b. 2 U " GSCRpG mass , " tli6 vacuolation of the matsrial of the club bead appears to be more extensive , and , instead of a special capsule remaining round the original vesicle , tKe whole is broken up , leading to setting free of the granular mass within .
Such granular masses ( " escape masses " ) , often still holding the original nucleus of the vesicle , are frequent in the teased preparations , and are evidently only a modification of the escape cells above described .
The process of vacuolation of the club head is illustrated in figs. 20a , 6 , and c , Plate 31 , and it is at once evident from a glance at these how the " fibre mass , " consisting of the remains of the club body material is formed by being " gutted out " of the head of the club , the stalk remaining attached .
A splendid example of an isolated " fibre mass " is figured in fig. 20c ?
, Plate 31 .
It is to be noted that these fibre masses are always coiled or spirally wound ( figs. 18a and 6 , 19a and 6 , 20c and d ) , suggestive of an " elater " action in removal of the surface epidermic scales to allow of escape of secretion ; I have not , however , been able to convince myself of any hygroscopic property .
The " thread mass " thus formed is capable of further disintegration .
Secondary vacuolation is often seen within it at its upper part ( fig. 19a , Plate 31 ) , and it is finally possible for it to be split into the finest fibrils similar to those found in the secretion ( fig. 46 , Plate 30 ) .
These finely fibrillated fibre masses stain brilliant yellow with picro-carmine , and there can be no doubt that the fibres of the secretion are ultimately derived from the fibre masses of the club cells .
^ JH The earliest stages in the development of the club cells will be more convenient yj considered in connection with the description of the sections .
In addition to the club cells the other cell forms found in teased preparations merit a short description here .
... .
' These are\#151 ; ( ii .
) Ordinary epidermic cells ; ( iii .
) Goblet cells ; ( iv .
) Connective tissue cells , ( a. ) Pigmented , ( b. ) Unpigmented ; ( v. ) Small round cells to which the name of " fibroblasts " will be given . .
( ii ) Ordinary epidermic cells.-These vary much in shape and size accordmg to the depth in the epidermis from which they are taken ( as shown by comparison with sections ) .
Illustrations of the various forms will be found in fig. 26 , Plate 32 .
j Cells coming from the region between the stalks of the club cells are lateray compressed with much elongated nuclei ( a , b , c , and I ) , whi e t e more super .
cells are polyhedral or rounded with large rounded nuclei and i ) .
It is o y p cells of the latter shape that " prickles " are distinct .
Bi-nucleated cells are freque , but here again I have failed to find mitotic figures ( / , g , ) , and k ) .
* t -loqt , Tn Petromyzon , F. E. Schulze ( 6 ) figures ( taf .
8 , fig. 26 ) one of the surfae* W. B. Hardy ( 35 ) has described a secretion of granules rom ^ Eel as wm be evident from witrLte\gt ; ethylene Hue solution , there is no evidence of a secretory process in the surface cells of the epidermis .
( iii .
) Goblet cells.\#151 ; The full account of these will be found in the description of ctions .
The cells in teased preparations from macerations in Ranvier 's alcohol are lually swollen and ruptured , presenting an empty theca with wide or narrow stoma , me remnants of protoplasm holding the nucleus lying at the base ( fig. 27 , Plate 32 ) .
( iv .
) Connective tissue cells.\#151 ; That cells of mesoblastic origin may find their way !
to the epidermis of certain animals is well known .
Leydig ( 29 ) first drew attention \gt ; the presence of pigmented connective tissue cells in the epidermis of Reptiles , Fish , nd Annulates ( Piscicola ) .
F. E. Schulze ( 6 ) described such structures in the oidermis of Eel , Tench , Sturgeon , Silurus , and Ruff .
Leydig ( 30 ) again has shown le presence of such cells among the epidermic cells of Gasteropods , and later ( 10 ) emonstrated that " Strahlenzellen , " quite devoid of , could also occur in the pidermis of Fish ( Cyprinus carassius ) .
In the same paper he figures ( fig. 32 , Plate 9 ) ontractile chromatophores from the epidermis of Zimmerman N ( 31 ) oo has described the occurrence of chromatophores among the epidermic cells of the iW and larval Salamander and their division ( mitotic ) in the latter .
The pigmented connective tissue cells ( chromatophores ) of the epidermis of the Eel end their much ramified processes among the inter-epithehal spaces , and are evidently japable of locomotion , since in sections , one finds them at various levels , and present n varying number at different spots .
They are extremely rare in the epidermis ot lybernating specimens .
Since these cells break easily in teasing , one only sees t eir form to advantage in sections , and those figured in fig. 24 , Plate 32 , are from such reparations .
The non-pigxnented connective tissue cells , which Leydig has shown may exist , mong the epidermic cells of Fish , are very abundant in the case of the Eel ; indeed , k regular network of these cells appears to exist in the lower layers of the epidermis .
The processes of these cells are of extreme fineness and great length in many cases , md it is these processes that form a felt work surrounding especially the stalks ot cl.viId cd.l.s Between these fully developed , non pigmented connective tissue cells and the fifth kind of cell to be described ( fibroblast ) a complete series of forms can easily be traced ( see fig. 25 , Plate 32 ) . .
, ( v. ) Fibroblasts.\#151 ; The cells to which I have given this name are without doub identical with the small rounded cells resembling lymphocytes described by anger hans ( 7 ) , List ( 13 ) , and Fritsch ( 12 ) , already alluded to in the introduction to t is paper .
The total cell measures only 4 ft. to 5 ft , has a nucleus extreme } ric chromatin , and a barely distinguishable rind of protoplasm externally .
A ew o isolated cells are figured in the upper left-hand corner of fig. 25 .
These ce s are frequently found dividing , and mitotic figures are easily recognized in their nuc ei .
As mentioned above , transitional forms between these cells and the unpigmen e connective tissue cells are readily found , the change being produced by a simp e growth of the protoplasm out into processes , usually commencing on one side rst .
332 PROFESSOR E. W. REID THE PROCESS OF The richness in chromatin of the nuclei of these fibroblasts is one of their most marked features , and the nuclei of the developed connective tissue cells have the same characteristic , so that they are very conspicuous in sections ( see figs. 5 and 13 , Plate 30 ; also Photo E , Plate 33 ) .
The origin of these cells will be considered in the description of sections .
( ft. ) Sections of Normal Epidermis .
It is only in sections that the origin of the elements differentiated in teased preparations can be adequately traced .
The sections have been cut in planes both vertical and parallel to the surface of the skin .
That the sections in the former direction were not oblique was judged at once by observing the appearance of the conical palisade cells of the lowest layer .
The elements requiring description are : ( a. ) The palisade cells and their immediate descendants .
( b. ) The club cells at various levels .
( c. ) The goblet cells .
( d. ) The fibroblasts .
( e. ) The formed connective tissue elements .
( ^ .
) The Palisade Cells .
Situated upon a basement membrane of some two or three micro-millimetres in thickness , separating the epidermis from the cerium , is a single layer of conical cells , whose apices are often prolonged for some distance between the cells of the super^ jacent layers .
The height of these cells is very variable 8 ^ 3n\gt ; ) ; the W breadth l from 4 * to 8 * ( see figs. 2 , 5 , 8 , \amp ; c " Plate 30 ; also Photo 33 ) , The body of the cell stains brownish-yellow with Flemmings fluid , the externally directed process being usually more deeply tinted .
" The nuclei are oval , with long axis coinciding with that of the cell , ''esicula .
with distinct nuclear membrane , and , as a rule , rather poor in chromatin .
In the resting state these nuclei measure 3 g.to 12 in length and 1*6 ( .
to 4 mbr^ Evidence of nuclear division is common ( fig. 7 , Plate 30 ) but h\lt ; *e again I a never seen mitotic figures .
As regards the plane of division of the cell , it appearto , be more often parallel to the long axis of the cell than transverse so that " g nucTei are most clearly seen in sections cut parallel to the surface of the skin .
Divisions at right angles to the long axis are however , not The descendants of these cells are : ( 1 ) club cells ; ( 2 ) the goblet cells .
1 , ordinary epidermic cells .
Tn transverse sections across the ( 1 .
) Origin of Club Cells from Palisade bulging of the cell long axis of the palisade ceils it is often evident that a lateral bu g g SECRETION IN THE SKIN OF THE COMMON EEL .
, .
occurs before division takes place .
This lateral enlargement differs in staining '\#166 ; n and appearance from the rest of the cell body .
In material hardened in kmmino 's fluid and stained with saffranine , this differentiated portion appears mogeneous and stained brownish-yellow , while the rest of the cell body is faintly mular and either lighter yellow or stained pink by the saffranine ( see fig. 7 , Plate 30 ) .
This lateral enlargement forms the body of the young club cell , and having received nucleus from the dividing palisade cell , it commences to grow towards the surface .
As a consequence of this mode of origin , one often finds in vertical sections of early isea that the slender lower end of the young club cell is wedged in between two lisade cells , and still in contact with the basement membrane ( see fig. 2 , a , 6 , c , d f Plate 30 ) Though the method of origin above described is by far the most mmon , it is also possible for club cells to arise by the method of division of the lisade'cells at right angles to their long axis ( see again fig. 2 , e , g , and h , Plate 30 ) . .
this case the pointed process of the palisade cell grows out , and at the same time idergoes the same change as occurs in the formation of the lateral enlargement m ie first method , becoming homogeneous and staining browner than the rest of the ill body with Flemming 's fluid .
The further development of the club cells will be followed under ( 6 ) of this section .
( 2 ) Origin of Goblet Cells from the Palisade Cells.-k young goblet is always istinguishable from a young club cell in this , that the upper part of the cell instead of eing homogeneous and brown in Flemming 's fluid and saffranine preparations , is finely ranulated and stained red .
In fact , the transformation of some of the protoplasm ito mucigen occurs before the cell has been constricted off from the palisade cell that \#166 ; ives it birth ( fig. 9 a , 1 , 2 , and 4 , Plate 30 ) .
, The nucleus too , in this early stage , shows a far more distinct nucleolus as a ru e , han that of the young club cell , and this large nucleolus is a feature in the nucleus o he fully developed goblet cell .
In the origin of a goblet from a palisade cell , the .ule is for the palisade cell to divide at right angles to its long axis , but origin y livision parallel to the long axis also occurs .
Both of these methods are illustrated in figs. 9a and b , Plate 30 . .
T j i The method of origin of the goblet cells of the Fish epidermis has , I find , been variously described by previous observers . .
, " , F. E. Schulze ( 6 ) , who investigated thirteen Teleostean genera , including the Jte , and also Accipenser and Petromyzon , considered that the goblet cells arise from t e ordinary epidermic cells of the upper and middle layers , and , in , he figures ( fig. 2b , Plate 8 ) a surface cell becoming transformed into a goblet .
Fiettinger ( ) confirms Schulze 's account for Petromyzon , and Fritsch ( 12 ) , using Malapterurus , also agrees with Schulze with reference to the origin from the ordinary epi ernnc cells .
List ( 9 , III .
) , however , in Cobitis and Torpedo saw the goblets arising m lowest layers , though he does not exclude the possibility of origin from t e uppe cells also .
In the Eel , I have never seen any other method of origin than that above described i.e. , direct from the palisade cells , and these small closed goblets can be traced up through the layers above , expanding as they came to maturity , and finally discharging at the surface .
( 3 .
) Origin of the ordinary Epidermic Cells from the Palisade Cells.\#151 ; Dividing palisade cells are often met with , which show neither of the modifications above described .
There can be little doubt that the descendants of these are the ordinary epidermic cells , seeing that cells of the character of those found nearer the surface , but elongated from compression between the stalks of the clubs , are found low down , immediately above the palisade cells ( see figs. 29 and 30 , Plate 32 ; also fig. 96 , 7 , Plate 30 ) .
Again , at the edge of the lip , club cells are absent and goblets few , the mass of the epidermis being formed of the ordinary epidermic cells ( see fig. 32 , Plate 32 ) .
( 6 .
) The Club Cells at Various Levels .
The young club cell once separated from its mother palisade cell rapidly grows up into the layers above , and undergoes the following process of development:\#151 ; A vesicle becomes developed in the neighbourhood of the nucleus .
This proces^ may commence even before the club has separated from the palisade layer ( see g in fig. 2 , Plate 30 ) , but the rule is that the vesicle does not develope till later .
The formation of the vesicle is preceded by the development of a marked granularity in the material immediately surrounding the nucleus ( fig. 3 , Plate 30 ) .
This granular material stains as densely with saffranine as the nucleus itself , though , whether it represents extruded nuclear material or not , I am unable to state definitely , though I am inclined to consider it as modified ceil body material .
The contents of the vesicle are formed from this granular material , and , as the vesicle grows in size , it is easy to see at its borders , in many instances , a layer of the granular material .
^ ^ As regards the orientation of the vesicle , it may appear at the outer or inner side of the nucleus , or at both simultaneously ( fig 28 , Plate 32 ) .
A distinct nucleolus is visible within the nucleus at this stage .
- The material within this vesicle is different to the rest of the club body , and , moreover , does not agree in reaction with the material formed in the goblet cells .
The reasons for this statement are as follows : the material in the vesicle stains a grey colour with Flemming 's fluid , which is in marked contrast to the brownish-yellow , or brown colour , taken by the material of the club body , ( fiss .
5 and 8 , Plate 30 ) .
In sublimate specimens treated with the Biondi stain , the material of the vesicle takes the methyl green , while the club body takes the acid uc sin. Again as regards differences between the contents of the club vesicles and t ose 9 the goblet cells .
In specimens fixed with Flemming 's fluid , saflranine stan* thegobkts but not the club vesicles ( figs. 5 and 8 , Plate 30 ) ; the same m true of " \#171 ; *yknejk .
With thionin the goblets stain reddish-violet , but the club vesmles are " ( fig. 13 , Plate 30 ) .
In specimens treated with Flemmings fluid , soluble blue th SECRETION IN THE SKIN OP THE COMMON EEL .
jy stain with which I have succeeded in staining the contents of the club vesicles g. 6a , Plate 30 ) .
In sublimate or picric acid specimens , however , saffranine , smatoxylin , and methyl green will all dye this material.* The formed vesicle now continues to enlarge , and a curved line is often noticeable ross its wall , separating a denser part below from a less dense part above ( fig. 8 , ate 30 ) .
This is probably related to the differentiation of a membrane for the escape 11 , since in later stages the vesicle again looks homogeneous .
The surrounding wall of club cell body material soon now becomes thinned on one le ( fig. 6b , Plate 30 ) , and either an " escape cell " is distinctly set freeam ongst the .per epidermic cells ( fig. 30 , Plate 32 ) , or an " escape mass , " containing more or less of e club body material in its walls , is found above the remaining fibre mass ( fig. 13 , ate 30 ; Photo A , Plate 33 ) .
During these later stages the contents of the vesicle assume a distinctly granular \gt ; pearance in Flemming hardened material , which is absent in the younger condition f. figs. 6a and b , Plate 30 ) , and the " escape mass " holds even more granular ntents , which , however , retain the peculiarity of staining with soluble blue ( fig. 6c , Late 30 ) .
Sections through the upper layers of the epidermis , parallel to the surface , show the scape masses with their granular contents and wall of club body material remarkably early .
It will be noticeable from a glance at fig. 6b , Plate 30 , and fig. 30 , Plate 33 , lat the substance constituting what I have termed the " fibre mass , " darkens with le osmic acid of the Flemming 's fluid to a greater extent than the rest of the club ody material , and even in the young club cells the apex and neighbouring parts is , t a very early stage , found to be gradually becoming differentiated in this manner , the process extending from the outer towards the inner part .
Finally , the " escape masses " or " cells " come to lie immediately beneath the urface scales , and are extruded , breaking up in the process , for they are never found \amp ; such in the slime itself .
As regards the final fate of the " fibre mass , " that part of it which does not pass \gt ; ut with an escape mass , may remain for some time in the epidermis ( fig. 5 , Plate 30 ) , iut it also is gradually eliminated , and one often comes across gaps between the .urface cells lined by a few fibres ( fig. 13 , Plate 30 , and fig. 33 , Plate 32 ) , indicative of [ he point of extrusion .
WAether the fibre mass is merely passively extruded by the pressure of surrounding growing cells , or whether by virtue of its spiral structure , aided by hygroscopic property , it actively takes part in its own elimination , I cannot say for certain , but the appearance presented in fig. 29 , Plate 32 , and certain considerations in connection with the histological appearances in artificially stimulated skins , would seem to be in favour of the latter hypothesis .
* January , 1894 .
I find that the contents of the vesicles of the club cells readily give the Lilienfeld and Monti ( 33 ) phosphorus reaction .
The material in the goblet cells , on the other hand , remains unstained , obviously on account of the absence of phosphorus from mucin .
( c. ) The Goblet Cells .
The mode of origin of these cells has been considered in S a ( 2 ) .
Once free of the palisade cells they appear to be pushed up by the new cells originating below , growing in size as they approach the surface , but remaining completely closed till it is reached .
In material hardened in Flemming 's fluid the nucleus which lies in a protoplasmic appendix of the theca ( List 's " befusste Becherzellen " ) always holds a remarkably large and distinct nucleolus ( figs. 8 , 9 , 12 , and 13 , Plate 30 , also Photo A , Plate 33 ) .
The youngest separated goblets measure 8 / l to 10 / x , the oldest surface specimens may be as large as 60 fx .
The shape is very variable ( figs. 9 , 11 , and 12 , Plate 30 ) on account of the variable pressure to which they are subjected at different levels in the epidermis . .
The contents of the theca appears in the form of distinct granules m the younger goblets if fixed with Flemming 's fluid or osmic vapour , but in sublimate and picric acid specimens and even in Flemming 's fluid material in the large surface cells one sees the appearance described by List ( 9 , III .
) of a " filar and interfilar mass .
" Since I have only seen this latter condition in the surface cells m osmic vapour and Flemming hardened material , I consider that it is produced by a process of imbibition of water by the contents of the theca when it nears the surface .
I agree with List in considering that some such imbibitory process accompanied by swelling brings about the rupture of the theca , and one frequently finds the surface scales in the act of being forced up by an expanding mass of extruded mucus , and later stagpE Twh'ch a pluf of mucus projects from the stoma ( figs. 126 and c , Plate 30 ) above the general surface of the epidermis .
The staining reactions of the contents of the thece It all stages of development have already been referred to ; the thionin reactor ( figs. 11 and 13 , Plate 30 ) is perhaps the most noteworthy .
In no case ave seen , goblet cell with two nuclei , a fact confirmed by List ( 9 , III .
) in the case ^Apparentiy^the life of a goblet cell is not ended when it reaches the surface an .
i r. " sSKS3 :Cr.r f !
L"grl !
, lS staining black with osmic acid and devoid \#171 ; ?
, , plate 30 on the left ) , which appear to represent the protoplasm .
3'^ agoblet cell .
Furthermore large rounded cells , whose body stains reddisl violet with tMonin whiie the du^ stems ^7^"the^cells as regen .
\#163 ; r- \#171 ; - ~ ** * goblet cell is capable of more than one discharge of mucus .
| ( d. ) The Fibroblasts .
description of the tease - SECRETION IN THE SKIN OF THE COMMON EEL .
337 which their nuclei stain with most dyes .
They are most numerous in the intervals etween the apices of the palisade cells , where they often occur in little masses .
As the passes towards the surface the relative quantity of these cells diminishes , and in he lower phases of secretory action I have not found them amongst the upper pidermic structures , though in stimulated Fish it may be otherwise .
The nuclei in he lower collections of these cells very frequently present mitotic figures ( fig. 5 , late 30 ) , and there can he no doubt that local multiplication occurs .
As regards the origin of these cells , I agree with List ( 13 ) that they are wandering ells , for not only do I find exactly similar cells between the fibres of the conum as e did in Colitis , but I note them passing through the basement membrane and .etween the palisade cells , as is very evident in Photo E , Plate 33 .
The function nd fate of these cells is considered in the next paragraph .
e. ) The Formed Connective Tissue Elements .
These , as already stated on p. 331 , are of two kinds , pigmented and non-pigmented .
The pigment cells require no description here as they have already been referred to mder ( a ) of this section , p. 331 .
They may reach very near to the surface as is evident n fig. 10 , Plate 30 , but their number is very variable in different specimens .
^ The non-pigmented connective tissue cells are difficult to distinguish in well-preserved specimens where no shrinkage has occurred ; one , at most , sees a fibrous appearance between the other elements , especially in the lower layers of the epidermis , tf , however , one observes sections of material in which the club cells have undergone shrinkage ( this often occurs in picric acid hardened skins ) a complete supporting net formed of the branches of connective tissue cells becomes evident .
Photo F , Plate 33 , is from a section taken parallel to the surface and the network is there evident .
See also fig. 316 , Plate 32 .
These connective tissue cells appear to arise from the small wandering cells , for , as already mentioned and figured in fig. 25 , Plate 32 , all stages can be traced between the two forms .
I can see no evidence whatever for Fritsch 's hypothesis that they supply the superficial epidermic scales , indeed the demonstration in Photo F , Plate 33 , that these cells are of extra-epidermic origin removes the ground from under it at once .
Nor again do I see any evidence in the Eel in support of Lists hypothesis that these cells undergo any degenerative process and pass out as " Schleimkorperchen in the secretion .
Normally , I am convinced that they form the epidermic supporting tissue , and I therefore see no need here of considering any phagocytic theory that might possibly be advanced .
I shall again have to refer to these cells in connection with the consideration of the effects of artificial stimulation .
Addendum to S 2 .
Nervous structures and connections.\#151 ; Nerve fibres passing from corium to epidermis are easily observed , and on the afferent side the " becherformige Sinnesorgane , mdcccxciv.\#151 ; b , 2 x originally described by Leydig ( 1 , 10 , 29 , p. 84 ) , are often met with , being especially clear in the lip ( fig. 33 , Plate 32 ) .
As regards , however , a connection between the secretory elements and the nervous system , I have no certain anatomical results to describe ; even in gold chloride preparations I have not been able to convince myself* As will be seen later , however , in connection with the effects of stimulation , there appears to be physiological evidence of such connections .
Variations in distribution of secreting elements.\#151 ; F , E. Schulze ( 6 ) observed that the club cells do not exist in Petromyzon at the edge of the ventral fin , nor in the lips .
In the lip of the Eel I find they are quite absent at the edge ( fig. 32 , Plate 32 ) and on the inner surface , though as one passes towards the general surface of the head these cells gradually make their appearance .
The edges of the pectoral fins too are devoid of club cells , though they are present upon the rest of the surface of these organs .
The goblet cells I find present over the whole surface of the animal , though local increases in their relative amount ( and the same is true of the club cells ) are often noticeable .
The goblets are most numerous on the inner surface of the lip .
S 3 .
The Origin of the Formed Elements of the Slime .
Having now considered the structure of the epidermis and the mode of development of its elements , it is possible to treat of the origin of the elements of the slime , whose consideration was discontinued at p. 327 .
Threads.\#151 ; That the threads of the slime originate from the " thread masses " of the club cells there can be no doubt .
It has been seen that elongated " thread masses " on the point of escape ( fig. 5 , Plate 30 ) can be detected in the epidermis , and that surface gaps lined by fibres ( fig. 13 , Plate 30 , and fig. 33 , Plate 32 ) may also exist .
Again the threads of the slime , and the bodies and " thread masses " of the club cells , give the same brilliant yellow reaction with picro-carmine .
And finally , in teased preparations from the epidermis of stimulated Eels one often finds " thread masses " distinctly breaking up into threads ( figs. 4a and b , Plate 30 ) .
The club cells then of the epidermis of the Eel are " Fadenzellen " in the sense applied by Kolliker ( 2 ) thirty-three years ago to those of the epidermis of Myxine , though in the case before us we have no specialized glandular involutions of the epidermis in which the process of thread formation is carried out to its full extent .
The unravelled threads would not easily be differentiated from unwound threads of Myxine , and such a specimen as that depicted in fig. 14 , Plate 31 , is suggestive even of the complexity of the " aufgewickelte Fadenkorper " of Johannes Muller from the slime glands of Myxine .
* January , 1894 .
A few preparations were made by the " Golgi method , " but , unfortunately , only the " slow process " was employed , and the delicate epidermis was not well preserved by the potassic bichromate without addition of osmic acid .
I intend to again investigate the point by the aid of the " rapid method " with osmic acid , which , I believe , will preserve the integrity of the structure .
SECRETION IN THE SKIN O .
THE COMMON EEL .
339 In this connection I may state that from Petromyzon fluviatilis by suitable stimula-ion I have obtained a thread secretion which is undoubtedly formed from the club ells of the epidermis , and the elements of which give the characteristic reaction with licro-carmine .
Fcettinger ( 8 ) saw the extrusion of the club cells in this Fish , but he loes not describe the final stage of thread formation .
I am , therefore , quite unable to accept the more recent account by Pogojeff ( 15 ) , is regards the nervous nature of the club cells of Petromyzon , and conclude that , in he three cases I have examined , Myxine , Anguilla , and Petromyzon , the greater part rf the clab cell is eliminated in the forms of threads , which can be detected in the slime .
Nuclei.__As regards the nuclei of the slime , two possible origins present themselves , ( 1 ) From the nuclei of the vesicles of the club cells ; ( 2 ) From the nuclei of the fibroblasts .
Size is , unfortunately , no help in coming to a decision between these two possible sources of origin , though it at once enables one to state that these slime nuclei are not those of epidermic scales , for the latter are far larger than the former .
Fcettinger ( 8 ) noted in Petromyzon that the extruded club cells did not contain a nucleus , and the fact is evident enough in the fibre masses of the cells in the Eel .
The nucleus of the original club cell passes away in the escape cell , or mass , and as this is absent as such from the slime , it must break up upon extrusion , and its nucleus be set free .
As regards the other possibility , origin from fibroblasts , I have not observed that , under " normal " conditions , these reach the surface .
On the whole , then , I am inclined to consider the slime nuclei as derived from those of the club cells , though , under conditions of severe stimulation , I think an origin from fibroblasts is also possible .
Granules.\#151 ; The granules of the slime appear to be the granules of the escape cells , or masses , developed from the contents of the vesicles of the club cells .
Their general similarity , and the staining reaction with soluble blue and methyl green , together with the similarity of the Lilienfeld and Monti phosphorus reaction ( v.footnotes pp. 326 and 345 ) , in the two cases , form , however , the only basis upon which I make this statement .
The mucin streaks and nets found in cover-glass prepa rations of the slime must owe their origin to the extruded contents of the goblet cells .
S 4 .
The Histological Appearances in Artificially Stimulated Skins .
The details of the process of secretion , so far deduced mainly from the examination of the slime and the variations in appearance of the elements of the " normal skm , are confirmed , and to some extent supplemented , when the skins of animals submitted to artificial stimulation are investigated .
Summer Fish were used , as a rule , since these are quicker to react to irritation than * January , 1894 .
I have failed to find evidence of the presence of any proteolytic ferment , similar to that extracted by Miss Alcock ( 36 ) , from the skin of the Ammoccete larva , in the skin of the Eel .
2x2 those obtained in winter , and stimulated skins were obtained in three ways , ( 1 ) The pithed animal was suspended in a vessel filled with the vapour of chloroform ; ( 2 ) The pithed animal was subjected to faradization ; ( 3 ) An animal , not rendered motionless by the first act of pithing , was allowed to writhe and slime ( " mechanical stimulation " ) .
Of these three methods , the first is by far the most efficacious for the production of the highest phase of excitation ; indeed , the secretory changes within the epidermis are almost " volcanic " in character , and the structure becomes so loosened that successful histological work requires great care .
Since , however , a narcotic action of the chloroform vapour on the elements of the epidermis must finally supervene , this method is not so suitable for observation of the effects of prolonged stimulation as the second .
In the third method , one generally finds that secretory action is less marked than in the other cases , and it is liable to be localized to various parts of the surface .
Both teased or cover-glass preparations and sections of stimulated skins have been studied .
( a. ) Teased Preparations of Stimulated Skins .
These have been prepared from chloroform vapour stimulated animals .
As one would expect , such preparations differ from the normal mainly in this , that very few normal club cells with closed vesicle are to be found ; on the other hand , the field teems with " fibre masses " in various stages of disintegration into slime fibres .
Such forms as are figured in figs. 4a and 6 , Plate 30 , are the rule .
At the same time the number of extruded nuclei is generally very great .
Jj The " escape cells , " so abundant in the teased preparations of the normal winter Eels , are conspicuous by their absence in similar preparations from stimulated skins .
The process of development of the fibre mass from the club cell and the setting free of thi contents of the vesicle is far more energetic than in the normal slow secretory process , and instead of a slow " shelling out " of the vesicle and its contents , an almost explosive disruption of the structure appears to occur in stimulation by chloroform vapour .
One must , however , turn to the sections in order to see how energetic this secretory action may be .
( 6 .
) Sections of Stimulated Skins .
( l. ) Chloroform Vapour Method .
As above mentioned , the epidermis of a chloroform vapour stimulated Eel becomes , loosened in texture .
This loosening is dependent upon three changes:-(\#171 ; ) The .
eruptive production of spiral fibre masses from the club cells within the epidermis , ( flthe production and swelling of goblet cells ; ( y ) the passage of numbers fibroblasts into the epidermis . .
, , V i inrn .
la .
) The Changes in the Club Cells upon Stimulation.\#151 ; A section roug form vapour stimulated skin at once reveals the fact that few , if any , of the club secretion in the skin of the COMMON EEL .
341 .
ils remain in their normal condition .
Curling fibre masses ( fig. 36 , Plate 32 , and Loto C , Plate 33 ) , with granular matter round their upper ends , have now taken 9 place of club cells with closed vesicles .
There can be no doubt that the process production of the spiral fibre masses from the normal club cells has been the suit of the excitation , and instead of the process occurring only in the more sveloped clubs nearer the surface , it has occurred in the lower layers to almost equal tent If the excitation has not been severe the surface epidermis may still remain tact ( fig. 36 , Plate 32 , and Photo C , Plate 33 ) , but should it be intense , this eruptive icoiling of fibre masses may lift the surface cells , with a general disintegration of ie epidermis as a resultant .
A magnificent example of this will be found m koto B , Plate 33 , which should be contrasted with that of a normal skin in the west phase of secretory activity presented in Photo A of the same plate .
The question at once arises : Is this action of chloroform vapour a direct one upon ie club cells ?
or , Is it a reflex action demanding nervous ties with the cord ?
The answer is certainly to be given in favour of the latter query , for the following lason , that exposure of exsected skin to the action of chloroform vapour does not roduce the effect . . . .
, , There is never any evidence of " an eruption " when the vapour is allowed to act pon the removed skin .
Fig. 35 , Plate 32 , is from a piece of removed skin subjected o chloroform vapour for about fifteen minutes , and is to be contrasted with fig. .36 of he same plate , where the animal with intact spinal cord was stimulated by the vapour .
There is , then , physiological evidence of nervous connections for the clu .ells* though I have not as yet been able to convince myself of the fact anatomically .
It should here be noted that in former experiments upon the electromotive properties of the skin of the Eel ( 34 ) I found that exposure of exsected skin to the action pf chloroform vapour caused a fall of potential , and I believe that the direct action upon the protoplasm of the secretory elements is narcotic , though in early stages one may have a reflex excitatory effect in the animal with intact cord .
In this reflex stimulation of the club cells it is apparently only the formed cells that react to the excitation ; at any rate I have seen no evidence of chloroform excitation leading to a rapid production of new individuals from the palisade cel s. Yet it is difficult to imagine how any nerve connection with the club cells can be retained after they have been set free from the palisade layer .
Possibly some con ducting protoplasmic connection , that has escaped me , is retained between ^ palisade cells and the club cells , the nerve connection being solely with the former .
( IB .
) The Production of Goblet Cells .
-At the same time that this extraordinary change is produced in the club cells , a great production of goblet cells also appears to ta e place upon stimulation with chloroform vapour .
Normally a small roun e go e cell occurs here and there above the apices of the palisade cells .
After stimu ation a * Or it may be that we have to deal only with contiguity of nerve fibres to irritable structures .
dense crop is usually found above the palisade layer ( fig. 36 , Plate 32 ) , generally giving evidence of being subjected to pressure by their elongated form .
At the same time the older goblets in the upper layers became swollen , and even in osmic and Flemming hardened material have lost their granularity , which is replaced by a network .
i/ This change is apparently due to a local action of the vapour , for I have not generally found much difference in number of goblet cells between the exsected skins and those stimulated on the animal .
The paucity of goblets in fig. 35 , Plate 32 , is rather exceptional .
( y. ) The Passage of Fibroblasts into the Epidermis.\#151 ; The quantity of fibroblasts in the lower layers of stimulated skins is one of their most marked features .
This is clear in fig. 36 , Plate 32 .
This change can , of course , only occur so long as the skin is on the animal , and , consequently , exsected skins subjected to chloroform vapour do not show tins peculiarity .
That these cells are really exuded leucocytes is forced upon one when one observes transverse sections of blood-vessels .
Capillaries lie some 5 or 10 ft below the basement membrane , and in stimulated skins it is easy to trace the leucocytes from the vessels towards the epidermis .
The extent to which diapedesis may occur is depicted in fig. 34 , Plate 32 , from a section across the pectoral fin .
In the rapid processes of reflex secretion evoked by chloroform vapour , it would appear that all these extruded cells are not converted into connective tissue corpuscles , for one finds them unaltered in the upper layers of the epidermis , and sometimes large masses of small cells , 5 ft to 6 ft in diameter , are found lying upon the surface of the stimulated skin .
A good instance is seen in Photo B , Plate 33 .
It is , of course , possible that many of these nuclei are from extruded club cell vesicles , but since I find a distinct cell body round most , I am inclined to consider them as undeveloped fibroblasts .
( 2 .
) Stimulation by Faradization .
Faradization does not appear to act as such a strong stimulus as chloroform vapour , but , since it can have no narcotic after-effect , can be used for observing the effects of a long period , of moderate excitation , in contrast to the violent but brief reflex action d| chloroform .
Prolonged faradization supplies skins without a trace of surface epidermif cells , though one finds that multiplication in the lower layers is very active .
Again , young club cells are frequent in the lower layers , but are usually directly extruded ai such , vesicle and all , so that in Eels faradized in air , a collection of extruded club cells is found upon the surface , many giving signs of subsequent disintegration .
Afi illustration of this is seen in Photo D , Plate 33 .
Fcettinger ( 8 ) has already figured these extruded club cells in Petromyzon ( see figs. 10 , 11 , and 12 , Plate 31 , of his paper ) .
The nuclei of the palisade cells also exhibit signs of division to a very marked extent .
SECRETION IN THE SKIN OF THE COMMON EEL .
343 So marked production of goblet cells , on the other hand , is evident in faradized ( ns .
Fibroblasts are , however , very numerous in the lower layers ( Photo D , Plate 33 ) , d extravasated red corpuscles are often found among the fibres of the corium .
) Mechanical Stimulation .
The changes met with in the skins of Eels that have writhed in the process of pture are , as would be expected , less marked and often localized .
They have already been incidentally referred to in previous pages , since such ^derate conditions of stimulation could scarcely be separated from the account of e slow process of normal secretion .
Figures in illustration are given in Plate 30 , r. 5 , and Plate 33 , fig. 29 .
# *# . . .
The most marked effect , therefore , of subjecting Eels to artificial stimulation is to use a rapid production of fibre masses from the club cells .
In stimulation by chloro-rm vapour , this process is almost " volcanic " in its energy , the epidermis being so osened that slight pressure is sufficient to cause removal of the upper layers .
The limal , therefore , actually leaves a considerable part of its epidermis behind when it gripped , the regenerative palisade layer , however , always remaining .
The increase f fibroblasts , which also occurs , is suggestive of the idea that these may act as a miporary protection and support by development into connective tissue corpuscles , uring subsequent regeneration of lost elements .
Note upon the Action of Atropine .
Eels are very resistant to intoxication with atropine , and live for days m fairly trong solutions .
It is , however , possible to obtain histological effects , which are of lome interest and are indicative of a paralytic action of the diug as regards secretion .
The skins of atropinized Eels teem with fibre masses and escape masses , yet there h no evidence of rapid removal of the surface or escape of the secretory elements or their products .
Figures from sections of an atropinized Eel , which refused to give any excitatory electrical variation upon faradic excitation ( see my former paper , ' Phil. Trans/ , vol. 184 , B , p. 360 ) , are given in Plate 32 , figs. 31a and b. It would appear that the appearances there seen are to be accounted for in the following manner .
At first , the introduction of the animal into a foreign medium has induced a secretory action , hut this has soon become paralyzed , so that the fibre masses , \lt ; \amp ; c. , first formed are retained in the epidermis .
The whole epidermis of such Eels is , too , actually on an average thicker than normal , while in Eels stimulated for long periods ( faradization or life in pilocarpine bath ) , it becomes thinned .
The club cells have not the normal appearance ( fig. 316 ) , the material of the head having undergone change into a granular material instead of the ordinary moie clearly defined fibre mass material .
The club in this figure has developed to the full , yet it has never left the palisade layer .
Fibroblasts too , are exceedingly rare , while on the other hand , ordinary epidermic cells are found compactly set right down t the palisade cells .
The skins certainly have the appearance of having been stimulated to secrete rapidly , but the process subsequently paralyzed .
Conclusion .
It is evident from the foregoing account that the secretory process in the skin of the Eel presents several points of peculiarity and interest .
The demonstration of a secretion of threads from the club cells points to a similarity of function of these cells m such otherwise widely separate Fish as the Eel and ocvuc .
The process is certainly better developed in the latter animal , and it has , moreover , the advantage of special epidermic involutions devoted to manufacture and store of threads ; yet in both , the whole club cell is cast off and mainly in the form of threads .
The fact that Petromyzon produces a thread secretion was to be expected , but had not been before clearly demonstrated , though the extrusion of the club cells was known .
What relation , if any , these thread-producing epidermic cells in Fish have to those of larval Amphibia described by Leydig ( 10 ) and Eberth ( 11 ) , it is not my place to speculate upon .
As regards the function of these threads in the slime of the Eel , I have already stated my opinion that they are of value in causing the slime to adhere to objects with which it is brought in contact .
In , however , I cannot but think that the cloud of thread-penetrated slime that the animal is capable of discharging , must be of service in aiding it to attack the far more powerful Fish that often become its host .
The physiological process involved in the sudden development of a spiral fibre mass upon stimulation , leading to a veritable upheaval of the epidermis , presents a problem in cell mechanics , at present inscrutable , but of great interest , though the effect in giving the animal the power to loosen the surface of its skin explains the proverbial slipperiness .
The connective-tissue network of the epidermis appears as a special arrangement for consolidating an otherwise extremely labile structure , and the observation that during excitation provision is made for a fresh supply of supporting cells by an inroad of fibroblasts would almost be expected from the nature of the case .
In fine , the following conclusions may be summarized 1 .
The secreting elements of the epidermis of the common Eel consist of goblet cells and club cells , both direct descendants of the cells of the palisade layer .
The former supply a mucin , the latter threads and a material appearing as fine granules in the slime .
2 .
The goblet cells contain mucin granules , and , after reaching the surface and discharging their load , are capable of undergoing regeneration , by growth of the protoplasmic foot and re-formation of mucin .
3 The threads of the slime resemble those of Myxine but are usually ?
finer texture .
As in Myxine , they are developed from the club cells , but there -e no special glandular involutions of the epidermis .
The club cells of Petromyzon uviatilis also supply slime threads .
J 4 The granular material of the slime is the contents of vesicular spaces developed | the club cells in the immediate neighbourhood of their nuclei , and is set free nclosed in a lattice work developed by vacuolation of the surrounding material and nally extruded , carrying with it the original nucleus of the club cell .
5 .
The remainder of the club cell after extrusion of its vesicle and nucleus becomes spirally coiled fibre , which finally breaks up into the fine fibrils of the slime .
6 .
Severe stimulation , especially by the vapour of chloroform , applied to the intact nimal , causes so sudden a development of the coiled fibres from the club cells that the nrface of the epidermis is thrown off and the secretory products set free en mass .
This rocess is of reflex nature , for similar excitation applied to excised skin is without effect .
7 .
A system of connective tissue cells , distinct from chromatophores , exists in the pidermis developed from cells which are direct descendants of leucocytes , and which an be traced from the bloodvessels of the corium through the basement membrane of he epidermis .
The number of these wandering cells in the epidermis is greatly ncreased by stimulation , probably with a view to providing subsequent support to he secretory elements during regeneration .
Appendix .
Histological Procedure .
Isolation of Elements.\#151 ; -The difficulty of isolation of the fresh elements of the epidermis , on account of the viscous nature of the structure , compelled me to resort to maceration .
Ranvier 's " third part " alcohol was found to deform the elements less than any other dissociating liquid , and was used throughout .
The skin was placed for 24 to 48 hours in this fluid , and then either shaken in water to separate the elements , or cover-glass preparations of the softened epidermis were made in the usual manner .
In preparing the elements of the slime the cover-glass method was used , except in cases where the flocks of secreted matter rising from an Eel in a bath were collected , in which cases the material was placed at once in yq per cent , osmic acid solution , and , after a few days , teased in dilute^ glycerine .
The dry cover-glass preparations were either stained directly with picro-carmine , Biondi stain , methylene blue , or soluble blue , or , if to be stained with thionin , first treated with corrosive sublimate .
The macerated material not made into cover-glass pre parations was either stained by irrigation in small teased masses on the slide , or stained in bulk , and subsequently teased in dilute glycerine .
The action of digestive ferments was watched in the hanging drop in an Engelmann s gas chamber placed upon a Schafer 's warm stage kept at 37 ' C. PROFESSOR E. W. REIft ON THE PROCESS OF Preparation of Material for Sections .
The following fixing reagents ha\gt ; ve been used from time to time .
Osmic vapour , Flemming 's fluid .
Perenyi 's fluid .
Picric acid ( saturated aqueous solution ) .
Corrosive sublimate ( saturated aqueous solution ) .
Nitric acid , 10 per cent. , for 24 hours , followed by osmic acid , 1 per cent. , for 24 hours .
Equal parts of saturated aqueous corrosive sublimate solution , and 1 per cent , chromic acid solution .
Absolute alcohol containing 25 per cent , of glacial acetic acid .
In all cases a graduated series of alcohols was subsequently employed .
The best results were obtained with Flemming 's fluid and the nitric-osmic method , though the corrosive sublimate preparations were very reliable .
Staining.\#151 ; This was usually effected in bulk .
A good nuclear saffranine from Grubler used in semi-alcoholic solution gave the finest results upon the material fixed in Flemming 's fluid and by nitric and osmic acids .
Methylene blue was also valuable .
The corrosive-hardened material was stained in bulk usually with Biondi stain or hsematoxylin .
If staining was effected after cutting sections , saffranine , hsematoxylin , and soluble blue were used for the Flemming fixed material , or thionin after previous treatment of the sections with corrosive sublimate solution .
I found the mucin reaction wiifl thionin succeeded as well in the Flemming fixed material as in corrosive flx@9 epidermis , provided the former was first treated with corrosive sublimate , but , unfowj tunately , the specimens soon fade .
Sections of material fixed with corrosive suoj limate were stained with thionin , picro-carmine , Biondi stain , or hsematoxylin .
In all cases where it was necessary to hold parts together , or where the preservation of the condition of the surface was absolutely necessary ( see , for instance , Photos B and D , Plate 33 ) , the sections were cemented to the slide by floating on in 50 per cent , alcohol while still in paraffin , and subsequent drying at 35 ' C. _ # .
1 The paraffin method , with xylol , has been used throughout for obtaining the sections .
Bibliography .
1 .
Leydig .
" Ueber die Haut einiger Susswasserfische .
" ' Zeitsch .
f. wissensch .
Zoologie , ' vol. 3 , 1851 , p. 1 . .
, , .
2 .
Kolliker .
" Ueber der Inhalt der Schleimsacke der Myxmoiden un i\amp ; Epidermis der Neunaugen .
' ' WUrzburger naturwissensch .
Zeitsch .
, ' vol. 1 , 1860 , p. 1 .
*11 3 .
J. Muller .
' Unters .
fiber die Eingeweide der Fische , ' Berlin , 1845 , p. .
4 .
Max Schultze .
" Die kolbenformigen Gebilde m der Haut von SECRETION IN THE SKIN OF THE COMMON EEL .
und ihr Yerhalten im polarisirten Lichte .
" Reichert u. du Bois-Reymond 's \lt ; Archiv/ 1861 , pp. 228-247 , and pp. 281-303 .
H. Muller .
" Bemerkungen liber die Epidermis von Petromyzon .
W lirzburger naturwissensch .
Zeitsch./ vol. 1 , 1864 , p. 43 .
^ } i F. E. Schulze .
" Epitbel- und Drlisen-Zellen .
" 'Arch .
f. mik .
Anat .
, vol. 3 , 1867 , p. 137 .
I Langerhans .
' Unters .
liber Petromyzon planeri , ' Freiburg , 1873 , pp. 14-23 .
I A* Fcettinger .
" Recbercbes sir la structure de l'epiderme des Cyclostomes/ ' \amp ; c. \lt ; Bulletin de l'Acaddmie royale de Belgique/ 2me s6rie , vol. 41 , 1876 , p. 599. .
1 .
List , ( i. ) " Ueber emzellige Drtisen ( Becberzellen ) in der Oberhaut von Torpedo marmorata " * Zoolog .
Anzeiger/ Jahrg .
8 , 1885 , p. 388 .
( ii .
) " Ueber den Bau , die Sekretion , und den Untergang von Drusen-zellen .
" ' Biolog .
Centralblatt/ 1885-86 , p. 698 .
( iii .
) " U eber Becberzellen .
" 'Arch .
f. mik .
Anat./ vol. 27 , 1886 , p. 481 .
) .
Leydig .
' Hautdecke u. Hautsinnesorgane der Fiscbe : Halle , 1879 .
^ I Eberth .
" Sir Entwicklung der Gewebe im Schwanze der Froscblarven .
'Arch .
f. mik .
Anat./ vol. 2 , 1866 , p. 499 .
^ 2 .
Feitsch .
'Die Electrisehen Fische .
' Erst Abtheil .
, " Malapterurus , 1887 .
Cap. Y. , " Die aussere Haut , " p. 38 .
* .
M ' 3 .
List .
" Studien an Epithelien .
1 .
Ueber Wanderzellen im Epithel .
Arch. f. mik .
Anat .
, 'vol .
25 , 1885 , p. 264 .
, 4 .
Stohr .
" Ueber Mandeln u. Balgdrtlsen .
" Virchow s ' Archiv , vol. 97 , 1884 5 .
Pogojeff .
" Ueber die Haut des Neunauges .
" ' Arch. f. mik .
Anat .
, vol. 34 , 1889 , p. 106 .
' , T 6 .
Blomfield .
" The Thread-cells and Epidermis of Myxme .
Quart .
Journ. Microsc .
Science , ' vol. 22 , 1882 , p. 355 .
, .7 .
Eisig .
'Fauna u. Flora des Golfes von Neapel .
' XVI .
Monographic , Die L8 .
Mobic/ 61 " Ueher die Eigenschaften u. den Ursprung der Schleimfaden des Seestichlingsnestes .
" ' Arch. f. mik .
Anat .
, ' vol. 25 , 1885 , p. 054 .
L9 .
Hover .
" Ueber den Nachweis des Mucins in Geweben mittelst der Far e-methode .
" 'Arch .
f. mik .
Anat .
, ' vol. 36 , 1890 , p. 310 .
20 .
Heidenhain .
" Beitrage z. Histologie u. Physiologie d. Dunndarmschleimhaut .
Pfluger 's 'Archiv/ vol. 43 , 1888 .
Supplementheft . .
_ ^ " 21 .
Paneth .
" Ueber die secernirenden Zellen des Diinndar m epithels .
Arc . .
mik .
Anat./ vol. 31 , 1888 , p. 113 .
t , . .
22 .
Leydig .
* Anatomisch-histologische Unters .
uber Fische u. epti len , e , 1853 , p. 107 .
" t .
.\#187 ; 23 .
Langerhans .
" Ueber die Haut der Larve von Salamandra macu osa .
f. mik .
Anat./ vol. 9 , 1873 , p. 745 .
2 Y 2 24 .
Flemming .
" Beitrage sir Kentniss der Zelle u. ihrer Lebenserscheinungen " ' Arch. f. mik .
Anat .
, ' vol. 14 , 1879 , p. 316 .
25 .
PfitznEr .
" Die Epidermis der Amphibien .
, , ' Morphologisches Jahrbuch ' vol. 6 , 1880 , p. 469 .
26 .
CarriIsre .
" Die postembryonale Entwicklung der Epidermis des Siredon pisciformis .
" 'Arch .
f. mik .
Anat./ vol. 24 , 1885 , p. 19 .
27 .
Paulicki .
" Ueber die Haut des Axolotls .
" ' Arch. f. mik .
Anat./ vol. 24,1885 p. 120 .
28 .
Leydig .
* Zelle u. Gewebe/ Bonn , 1885 , p. 89 .
29 .
Leydig .
'Lehrbuch der Histologie , ' 1857\gt ; pp. 99 and 120 .
30 .
Leydig .
" Die Hautdecke u. Scbale der Gastropoden , " \amp ; c. ' Arch. f. Naturgeschichte/ 1876 , p. 208 .
31 .
Zimmermann .
" Ueber die Theilung der Pigmentzelleri , sped ell der verastelten intraepithelialen .
" ' Arch. f. mik .
Anat./ vol. 36 , 1890 , p. 404 .
32 .
Waymouth Beid .
''Mucin Granules of 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 14 , p. 340 ' .
33 .
Lilienfeld und Monti .
" Ueber die mikro-chemisehe Localisation des Phosphors in den Geweben .
" ' Zeitsch .
f. Physiologische Chemie , ' vol. 17 , p. 410 .
34 .
Waymouth Beid .
" The Electromotive Properties of the Skin of the Common Eel .
'Phil .
Trans./ vol. 184 ( 1893 ) , B , , pp , 335-365 .
35 .
Hardy .
" On the Reaction of certain Cell-Granules with Methylene-Blue .
" 'Proc .
Cambridge Phil. So ./ vol. 7 , part 5 , 1891 , p. 258 .
36 .
Alcock .
" The Digestive Processes of Ammocoetes .
" 'Proc .
Cambridge Phil. Soc./ vol. 7 , part 5 , 1891 , p. 252 .
37 .
Waymouth Reid .
" Chemical Note on the Secretion of Myxine glutinosa ' .
" 'Journal of Physiology/ vol. 15 , p. 488 .
Description of Plates 30-33 .
Zeiss ' apochromatic objectives and oculars have been used throughout , and the drawings have , without exception , been executed with the Abbe camera lucida .
The photographs in Plate 33 were taken with the same system of objectives supplied with projection oculars , the source of light being a 3000-candle power arc lamp .
My thanks are due to Professor Claxton Fiddler , of the Engineering Department of University College , Dundee , for his kindness in supplying me with current for the lamp .
PLATE 30 .
Fig. 1 .
X 600 .
From a " cover-glass preparation " of the slime of a " normal " Eel , stained with picro-carmine .
The characteristic yellow reaction of th\#174 ; threads of the slime is shown , also relative size of extruded nuclei and granules , An extruded goblet cell is present on the left .
2 X 600 .
Origin of club cells from palisade cells .
Flemming 's fluid and g ' ' saffranine ; a , 6 , c , and / show the method of origin by lateral division of the palisade cell at right angles to its longer axis .
The darkening of the apex of the young club cell by the Flemming 's fluid is visible in all cases .
" .
_ 3 x 60o .
Stage in development of club cells previous to the formation ot the * f vesicle .
Fixing and staining as in fig. 2 .
Note the granular matter densely stained with the saffranine , in the region of the nucleus .
m 4a and 6 .
X 600 .
Two stages in the development of the slime fibres from the " fibre-masses " of the club cells .
From a " cover-glass " preparation of an epidermis stimulated by chloroform vapour .
Ranvier 's alcohol and picro-carmine .
The same yellow reaction is evident as in the formed fibres of the slime ( fig. 1 ) in both cases , and in b the breaking up into the finest fibres is seen , .
ig .
5 .
X 600 .
Developed " fibre-masses " in process of extrusion .
From a winter Eel that had struggled during killing .
Flemming 's fluid and saffranine .
Note the dark coloration of the fully-formed " fibre-mass , " and compare with that of the apices of the club cells still possessing a vesicle .
Also , the absence of saffranine staining of the contents of the club vesicle should be contrasted with the marked coloration of the contents of the goblet cells .
Note also a considerable number of fibroblasts in the lower layers , many of which exhibit mitotic figures .
Pig .
6a , b , and c. X 600 .
Similarity in staining reaction of the contents of the club vesicle at early and later stages with that of the " escape mass .
" Winter Eel , Flemmtng 's fluid and soluble blue .
The contents of the fully developed vesicle and " escape mass " are distinctly granular , that of the young vesicle is homogeneous .
' Fig. 7 .
X 600 .
Division of palisade cells .
Flemming 's fluid and saffranme.^ The upper examples are from sections parallel to the surface of the skm , the lower are cut at right angles to the surface .
In the upper note the lateral bulging , staining yellowish-brown , and indicative of the commencement of differentiation of the club cell body material .
In the lower , the deeper staining of the apices of the conical palisade cells is noticeable .
No mitotic figures are to be seen .
_ Fig. 8 .
X 600 .
Medium stage in the development of a club cell and a goblet cell .
Flemming 's fluid and saffranine .
In the vesicle of the club cell , note a curved line , separating a denser lower part from a less dense upper part .
This line passes upwards , as development proceeds , and probably mar s the edge of the membrane of the " escape cell , " which is becoming differentiated from the wall of the club .
Note the " foot " and marked nucleolus of the goblet cell , its granular contents , and difference in staining reaction to those of the club vesicle .
The dividing palisade cell immediately bel0w the goblet cell is giving rise to an ordinary epidermic cell .
Fig. 9a and b. X 600 .
Origin of goblet cells from palisade cells .
Flemming 's fluy and saflranine* 9a .
The transformation of some of the protoplasm of the young goblet cell into a saffranine staining mucigen , even before the new cell has parted from its mother , is seen in 1 , 2 , and 4 , and should be contrasted with the early stages and staining reactions of the young club cells in fig. 2 .
2 is a case of origin by lateral division ; 1 and 4 , by transverse division of the palisade cell , though in the latter case the two nuclei of the palisade cell show that a lateral division will take place shortly .
3 shows how early the characteristic shape is attained in many cases .
9b .
6 shows that the characteristic shape may be developed even before separation from the parent , and also ( as , too , in 8 ) the great length to which the outwardly directed process ] of the palisade cell may reach .
In 7 , a goblet cell is being thrust upwards by an ordinary epidermic cel ] with characteristic elongated nucleus .
Fig. 10 .
X 600 .
Regenerating goblet cell ( re-formation of mucigen ) .
Flemming 's fluid .
Thionin , after treatment with corrosive sublimate .
Winter Eel .
Note the characteristic mucin reaction with thionin in the protoplasm of this cell , and contrast with the ordinary blue colour of thionin taken by the nucleus of this cell and those of the surrounding epidermic cells .
A wandering pigment cell is also to be seen .
Fig. 11 .
X 600 .
Goblet cells in earlier stages of regeneration than that in fig. 10 .
Preparation as in case of fig. 10 .
The cell on the left consists of the protoplasmic " foot " alone , containing granules staining black with osmic acid .
The theca , with its load of mucigen , has disappeared , hut no new supply has been yet formed , as in fig. 10 .
The two cells on the right indicate stages in the growth of the protoplasm of the " foot , " in caseR where the first load of mucigen has not been completely discharged .
The darkened granules are again seen here ; they are never seen in the " foot " of ripe cells ( cf. fig. 12a ) .
The nucleolus is , as a rule , absent in the regenerating cells .
Fig. 12 .
X 600 .
Ripe , discharging , and regenerating ( earliest stages ) goblet cells .
Flemming 's fluid , a is stained with methylene blue ; c , and d with haematoxylin .
In b and c , which are discharging , the stoma of the theca and the projecting " pfropf " of mucus are seen , a is a cell ripe for discharge , the theca still being intact , d is an intermediate stage in regeneration between the cells on the extreme right and left of fig. 11 .
Fig. 13 .
X 435 .
Section of winter Eel killed " instantaneously , " and in lowest phase of secretory activity .
Flemming 's fluid .
Thionin , after treatment with SECRETION IN THE SKIN OP THE COMMON EEL .
corrosive sublimate .
Note the reddish-violet reaction of the contents of the goblet cells , and compare with the absence of staining of the contents of the club vesicles and the blue colour of the nuclei throughout .
A \#171 ; fibre mass , " tending to be spiral , is seen on the left , and a point of escape , lined by a few fibrils , is seen above .
A thick layer ( 7 or 8 cells ) of superficial epidermic cells is present .
PLATE 31 .
ig .
14 .
X 600 .
Convoluted fibre , discharged by an Eel placed in a bath of pilocarpine solution .
'0)"Per cent , osmic .
Dilute glycerine .
ig .
15a and b. X 600 .
Club cells with dividing nuclei .
Winter Eel .
Banvier 's ''third part " alcohol .
Carmine .
Dilute glycerine .
Note the lattice work in the wall of the vesicle and the ''prickles " upon the outer surface of the body of the cell .
ig .
16ct and 6 .
X 600 .
Club cells with two vesicles , each holding a nucleus .
Preparation as in fig. 15 .
In a , note the granular core passing down the stalk from the vesicle .
'ig .
17a , b , and c. Extrusion of the " escape cell " from the club .
^ a and c , X 435 .
6 , X 600 .
Preparation as in fig. 15 .
The lattice work in the wall of the " escape cell " is especially clear in b. In c , the presence of a second nucleus indicates the possibility of formation of a second escape cell .
rig .
18a and b. Development of a coiled " fibre mass " without the formation of a definite " escape cell .
" ( The remainder of the vesicle is in such cases referred to as an " escape mass " in the text .
) a , X 435 .
b , X 600 .
Preparation as in fig. 15 .
% 19a and b. Secondary vacuolation of " fibre mass .
" a , X 435 .
b , X 600 .
Preparation as in fig. 15 .
Note granularity in secondary vacuolation spaces in a , similar to that occurring in the stalk in figs. 15 , 16 , and 17 .
Fig. 20a , 5 , c , and d. X 600 .
Stages in the vacuolation of the club body material , leading up to the freeing of the " fibre mass .
" Preparation as in fig. 15 .
The vacuolation and formation of a lattice work , filled with granular matter , is seen commencing in a , and further developed in b. In c , this granular material has become freed in the process of maceration , so that the trellis of the residual unaltered club head material is very distinct , In d , the " fibre mass " is free .
The " prickles " noticeable figs. 15 , 16 , 17 , and 18 are retained upon the lower end of the developed " fibre mass .
Fig 21a and b. X 600 .
Large isolated " escape cells .
" Preparation as in fig. 15 .
In this form , the greater part of the club body material is converted into granular material , and the " fibre mass " remains attached as a convoluted coarse filament .
352 PROFESSOR E. W. REID ON THE PROCESS OF Fig. 22a , b , and c. X 600 .
Isolated " escape cells .
" Preparation as in fig. 15 .
jQa some of the trellis produced in the vacuolation of the club head is still adherent ; b has no thick wall of club head material , and is an intermediate form between an " escape cell " and " escape mass , " In c the thick wall is complete only on one side .
Fig. 23a , b , c , d , e , f , and g. X 600 .
Preparation as in fig. 15 .
These figures show the great variation in size and structure of " escape cells " met with in teased preparations ; a and b show the possibility of division of the nucleus ; b , c , and d show the nucleus in process of extrusion ; e and g show how extremely small these cells may be in comparison with such forms as fig. 21a and b ; f ( as also in fig. 22a ) shows a stout strand of club body material that has been ruptured in the process of " shelling out " of the cell ... In all , the outer surface is seen to be beset with spines of the original lattice work\#151 ; a fact also frequently clear in sections c , / , fig. 6c , Plate 30 .
N.B.\#151 ; All the figures upon this Plate , with the single exception of fig. 14 , are from one winter Eel , killed ** instantaneously .
" PLATE 32 .
Fig. 24 .
X 600 .
Pigment cells of the epidermis , from a section hardened in Flemming 's fluid .
Fig. 25 .
X 600 .
Fibroblasts , isolated by Ranvier 's alcohol .
Carmine .
Glycerine .
In passing from left to right , all stages , from the simple lymphocyte-like cell to the small connective tissue cell with long fine processes , are to be observed .
Fig. 26 .
X 600 .
Ordinary epidermic cells , from various levels , Preparation as in fig. 25 .
a , b , c , and l , with elongated nuclei , are from the lower layers ; d and e , from a higher level ; h and i , from near the surface f , g , J , and k are dividing cells from near the surface , but lack mitotic figures in their nuclei .
It will be noted 'that the more superficial cells present " prickles .
" Fig. 27V X 600 .
Isolated goblet cell .
Preparation as in fig. 25 .
The plicated wall of the empty theca and the marked nucleolus of the nucleus are to be noted .
Fig. 28 .
X 600 .
Formation of the vesicle of the club cells .
From sections of material hardened in Flemming 's fluid , and stained with saffranine .
This condition is presented in the stage following that depicted in fig. 3 , Plate 30 .
The intimate relation of the vesicle to the nucleus is to be noted , as also the granular transformation of the club body material which precedes the enlargement of the vesicle .
The vesicle may start on the outer side of the nucleus a , / , g , and i , with granularity only at the opposite pole , or vice versed , h and k ; on the other hand , it is possible for it to arise simultaneously upon both sides , b , c , d , and e. a. 29 .
X 435- An escaping " fibre mass , " lifting surface cells .
From a winter Eel that had struggled during capture ; Flemming 's fluid and saffranine .
30 X 435 .
An " escape cell " and related " fibre mass in , in a section .
Same Eel and preparation as fig. 29 .
g. 31a and b. ct , X 160 .
6 , X 600 .
Appearances in the epidermis of an Eel that had lived two days in a solution of atropine .
Flemming 's fluid and saffranine .
In a , " fibre masses " and " escape masses " are seen to exist at all levels of the epidermis , and a peculiar granularity is noticeable round about the upper ends of the " fibre masses .
" The general appearance of the section is suggestive of an initial secretory activity , which has been subsequently brought to a close by the paralyzing action of the drug , b shows the appearance of a club cell still in contact with the palisade layer , which , though developed to the full , has never left its position of origin .
A developed fibroblast with long processes is seen ensheathmg this club , at the upper part of the figure. .
ig .
32 .
X 435 .
Section of outer edge of lip .
Picric acid and hsematoxylin .
Note the absence of club cells , presence of a goblet cell , and one of the wellknown sense organs .
f Ig .
33 .
X 600 .
Point of escape of a " fibre mass .
" From a winter Eel .
Flemming s fluid and thionin .
rig .
34 .
x 600 .
Diapedesis .
From central vessels of pectoral fin .
^ Picric acid and hsematoxylin .
These extravasated cells are quite indistinguishable from the young fibroblasts found in the lower layers of the epidermis .
Figs. 35 and 36 .
X 435 .
Fig. 35 is a section of skin subjected to the action of chloroform vapour after removal .
Fig. 36 is from the skin of an Eel simply decapitated and then exposed to the vapour .
Both were fixed with corrosive sublimate and stained with haematoxylin .
In fig. 35 , most of the club cells are in the earlier stage , with closed vesicle .
In fig. 36 , only curled " fibre masses " are found , with some granular debris around them .
There is also to be noted , in fig. 36 , a relative increase in the quantity of goblet cells and fibroblasts in the lower layers .
also Photos B and C , Plate 33 .
PLATE 33 .
The 'prints on this Plate are Collotypes , direct from untouched negatives .
Photo A. x 320 .
Epidermis of a " normal " winter Eel .
Flemmings fluid , and saffranine .
Note below the club cells , with closed vesicles , and the 2 z Photo B. Photo C. Photo D. Photp E " Photo F. conical palisade cells ; above , the free " escape masses .
" This prin^ represents the appearances of the lowest phase of secretory action .
X 175 .
Later stages of stimulation by chloroform vapour .
Nitric and osmic acid .
Saffranine .
Note the " eruption " of fibre masses ( darkly stained ) causing considerable disruption of the layers of the epidermis .
Above is seen a compact mass of small cells ( 5/ u , ) , which are , probably , extruded fibroblasts .
A pad of coagulated mucus , containing a few epidermic cells , separates this mass of small cells from the parts below .
This print should be contrasted with the appearance of the resting skin seen in Photo A. X 300 .
Early stages of stimulation by chloroform vapour .
Compare with Photo B. Nitric and osmic acids .
Saffranine .
A good example of a coiled fibre mass is seen on the right .
X 175 .
Epidermis of a summer Eel faradised for an hour .
Flemming 's fluid and saffranine .
The superficial epidermic cells are absent , and the surface consists of a mass of extruded fibre masses and club cells .
An escaping club cell is evident upon the left .
Note the large number of fibroblasts in the lower layers .
X 900 .
Passage of fibroblasts from the corium into the epidermis .
Picric acid and haematoxylin .
Fibroblasts can be seen upon the corium side of the basement membrane , one is fixed as it passes through , another between two palisade cells , and others lie free in the epidermis .
In two of these latter a protoplasmic process is evident upon one side of the cell Note the relative sizes of the nuclei of the palisade cells and the fibroblasts .
X 450 .
Connective tissue network in the epidermis .
Section parallel to the surface of the skin about midway between surface and basement membrane .
Picric acid and saffranine .
The bodies of the club cells have shrunk in preparation , and so allow the branching cells to be easily visible .

