XXVI .
An Account of an Appeclrance of Light , like a Star , seen in the dark Part of the Moon , on Friday the 7tb of March , 1 794 ?
by WilliamWilkins , Esq. at N5orwich .
In Extracts of a Letter to the Rev. SamuelVince , F. A. S. and of three Letters to the FSev .
Nevil Maskelyne , D. D. F. R. S. and Astronooner RoyalS and comnzunicated by the latter .
Read July loX *794 .
LETTER Io RliVEREND SIR , Norwich , 17th April , x794 .
I RECEIVED your letter yesterday X and I aln extremely happy in giving you the best description in my ponver respecting t } &lt; e plaxnornenon I saw in the moon , on Friday the 7th of Marcll , a few minutes before eight o'clock in the evening .
I was in laopes , as it was a brlght evening , that some astronomer might observe it , who would have described it in a more sczentic luanner than I can .
The few observations I made were merely to comparewith some account I expected and wished to meet ill some periodical publication .
My friend Mr. ECKWITH having the day before told me that I might see Mercury soon after suz-set , I had been looling for that planet from the Castle-hill in Norwich but was disappoitlted by a clouded llorizon .
I mention this merely as the reasotl of my being Ied to a more particular notice of the moon also in this evening , havilzg lost the first object of that evening 's attentione C 429-3 When I saw the light speck , as shown in the sketch , ( see Tab. XXI .
fig..3 I was very much surprised ; for , at the instant of discovery I believed a star was passing over the moon , which on the next moment 's consideration I knew to be impossible .
I remelubered having seen , at some periods of the moon , detached lights from the serrated edge of light , through a telescope ; but this spot was considerably too far distant from the elllightened part of the moon ; besides , this was seen with the naked eye .
I was , asit were , rivetted to the spot where I stood , during the time it continued , and took every method I could imagine to convince myself that it vas not an error of sight ; and two persons , strangers , passed me at the sallle timef whom I requested to look7 and they ( may be , a little more igtlorant than xnyself ) said it was a star .
I anz confident I saw it five minutes at least but as the time is only conjecttlral it might not , possibly , be so lotlgv The spot appeared rather ; brighter .
than arly other enlighterzed part of the moon .
IT WAS THERE WHEN I FIRST LOOKED .
The whole time I saw it , it was a FIXED , STEADY LIGHT , except the moment before it disappeared , when its bRightneSS INCREASED , but that appearance was instantaneous .
I have a reflecting telescope , and as I was very near homeS I had determined to return and use it on this occasiolz ; for it was so fixedS I had scarcely a doubt but its appearance wou]d contitlue ; but altnost at the installt7 and whilst I was looking it totally disappeared .
You can tell , by the age of the moon at that -timeS the apparent breadth of light upon the surface of that body , which , as near as I can judge , determines the distance of the spot from two points , B and 7 on the peripllery of the circle , ( see fig. 1 ) in which A is the enlightened spot ; BAA D. DCvBAD is supposed a right angle .
I mentioned this soon afterulards to a gentleman of my acquaintance , who sometimes amuses himself in the stu( lie of astronomy ; he was extremely itlquisitive about it , and conjectured this phenomenon to be some great volcanic convulsion in the moon , which induced me at that time to assist my memory with a sketch like what I have here sent you .
I shall be obliged to yoll , Sir , if you will favour me with Dr. MASKELYNE'S oplnion , if what I have related is sufficient ground for him to form an opinion upon S and whether any such phnomenon has ever before been observed .
When I was lately in town , I mentioned the particulars to my sntorthy frielld Mr. H. REPTON and if my engagements would have permitted , he was desirous I should call with him upon Dr. HERSCHEL , with whom he has some acquaintance .
I ams &amp;c. Norwich , WIIjLIAM WILKINS .
s7th April , 1794 .
To the Rev. SAMUEL VI v CE .
LETTER II .
REV : EREND SIR , Norwich , 2d May , 1 794 .
I azzl favoured with yottr letter of the lst instantn respecting the description of the light spot observed by m-e ita the moon .
I aln certain as to the evening I saw the pllnomenon , because I made thememorandum in a pocket journal I keep , besides , another local -circumstance convinces me of its being on a Friday , and not otl any other day than the 7th of March .
You are undoubtedly right in supposing I had forgot how near the moon was to a half moon ; and when I wrote to Mr. VINCE , I answered him in haste S for his letter to me requested an immediate answer , otl account of his engagement to leave Cambridge in a short time .
If you will please to refer to my letter , I think you will find I was somehow aware of my not describing the age of the moon properly in the sketch ; for I said , " you will be able to tell by the age of the moon at that c ; time , tZpe apparent breadth of light , nvhich may , in some mea s ; suren cletermine the situation of the spot according to my '4 idea .
' The sketch I made at first was in pencil without the as sistance of compasses .
It appeared like a small star , without chalzging its form or situation ; and its distance was as far from the enlightened edge D as from the dark edge B. I am , &amp;c. WILI , IAM WILKINS .
To the Rev. Dr. MASKELYNS LETTER III .
REVEREND SIR , Norlxlich , 8tll May , 1794 .
I am again favou-red with yours of the 6th instant .
The evenirzg I saw the bright spot on the moon , I had been looing for Mercury soon after sun-set , and walked more than an thour X and having been disappointed by a clouded horizon , I returned home ( my house is within $o yards of the Castle hill ) ; and after staying some time , set out again to the coffieehouse to look at the papers , as I usually do about-that time , i. ee eight o'clock .
I took the Castle-hill again in my wayn when I was surprised with the appearance I have already describede After the disappearance of the 13hxnomenon , I was very particular ill my inquiries respecting the time , and called purposely on a neighbour to astertain it with certainty ; and found it a few minutes before eight o'clock , which time I entered in my pocket journal fl and on inquiry of Mrs. WILKIN-S , she says I left home at that time .
I am in my +4th year , and have a strong , good sight , not ia the least short sighted .
About two years sitlce , I purchased a pair of spectacles in town , because I did not , in pointing a pen , see the nib so distinctly as formerly ; but notwithstanding , , they lay in my drawer totally useless .
My^profession has lately carried me frequently to Orfordness , where I have been constructing a lighthouse for Lord HOWARD , upon the new principle , with ARGAND lamps and reflectors ; and the goodness of na sight has often been remarked , irs discovering vessels with the nakecY eye , which my comanions could not discover but with the telescope .
I find that by looking some tzme at an object , nzy left eye waters , I suppose from weakness , but if I shut it , nzy other eye still remains strong sighted .
Whetl the moon is young , I do perfectly see the whole circumference , from the faint light which surrounds it , and orl that evening the moon appeared a well defiIled cresceolt .
I remember seeing the star you mention that evening ; but I think it was betnveen nitle and tell o'clock that I observed it e and it--was in appearalleeS may be , two of the moon 's diameters distance to the west e but I did not particularly notice it .
I am very certaill of this spot appearing W1THIN the circumference of the moon S cirele .
I am , &amp;c. \VILI &gt; IAM WILKINS .
Custl M-a ; dow .
To the Rev. Dr. MASK 1 , Y N , * W1r .
R. 8AcoN , who is publisher of one of the Sc)rwicil paposJ NIDCCXCIV .
3 K LETTER IV .
StR .
, Hare streets by RomI &amp; ord , 26th May , 1794 .
Having been some days from Norwich , I received your fa your of the s3d instattlt only this morning .
The clocks at Norwich are regulated by meatl time , in the same manner as in Londoll .
I have heresvit-h given the figure you request , , copying the moon 's appearance flom your scheme , not having any of my former sletches with tne ( see fig. 2 .
) ; I have placed the spot of light to the best of my recollection ; and I hope itis .
such as will be themeans of satisfyin$ your curious inquiries I atn , &amp;c. MIII &gt; IIANI : WILKIDV8 To the Revo 3)r M^$ XVtvN a

