]\gt ; 1903 .
] Theory of Symmetrical Optical Objectives .
The Theory of Symmetrical Optical Objectives By S. D. CHALMERS , .
( Cantab .
) , .
( Sydney ) , St. John 's Colle , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor , Sec. Received and read June 18 , 1903 .
This paper deals with the relations between the aberrations of a lens system , used with a front stop , and those of the compound system formed by two such systems disposed symmetrically with respect to the stop .
The method of Hamilton 's characteristio function is used as adapted by Maxwell , the notation employed and the expressions for aberrations of any system bein those given by Thiessen .
The optical length between the points , -J ) in the medium is ; which is ex- pressible in terms of ) when the points lie on the surfaces If these be surfaces of revolution about the axis neir equations may be written . .
, where ) and the characteristic , omitting the constant and writing for ) is given by to terms of the 4th order in , where , representing ) , , , , , , ( I ) .
The characteristic of the media between ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) is ) , where are to be eliminated by the relations * ' Sitzungsberichle der K. Preuss .
Akad Bel.lin , 1890 .
, ( II ) , in which If , however , is zero , is the Gaussian image of and , where , , , ( III ) .
Thus is the condition for the correction of Spherical Aberration , , , , , absence of Coma , correction of Astigmatism , is the ditional ndition for Flatness of Field , is the condition for no Distortion .
Or if we and , then , we may use the conditions and together , instead of and.q 1903 .
] The Theory of Symmetrical Optical Objectives .
Bsfore applying these results to our special problem it is necessary to show that is equivalent to Petzval 's oondition for Flatness of Field .
From tions ( II ) it is evident that ; from ( III ) Hence if , we have ; hat is , using I , we have , which is Petzval 's form .
It is evident that , if this condition be atisfied for a single system , it is also satisfied for the double symmetrical system and vice to the cas of Double unetrical Objectives .
Considsr the object plane at ( 0 ) , the image due to the combined system at ( 3 ) , the stop at ( 2 ) , and let ( 1 ) be the plane symmetrical to ( 3 ) with regard to the stop .
Let from symmetry let . .
, where ' and . .
, assuming VOL. LXXII .
Mr. S. D. Chalmers .
[ June 18 , In the complete system and We have provided ; but this is the condition that the single lens should be spherically corrected with regard to the centre of the stop .
It is further evident that it is impossible to exactly satisfy , and , and it is easy to obtain the minimum residual error for a given stop and field .
* This result is given by Professol .
Lummer .
This was pointed out by H. Bruns , " " Das Eikonal ' Abh .
der 2 .
Klasse K. .
Akad Leipzig , 1895 .
In both cases the methods employed are essent a iall different from the above .
1903 .
] The of netrical Optical ectives .
271 When the object is at , we can express the errors in terms of thoss of the single system with a front stop .
Let the image due to the single system be at ( 4 ) , then , since , and Again therefore When the object is at , , , From these expressions it is evident that the whole system will be stigmatically corrected , if ons component is so , and the additional condition is satisfied ; the latter is the condition that there should be no Distortion in the whole system .
It is impossible , under these conditions , to satisfy exactly ; but it may be shown that in symmetrical objectives , whose aperture-ratio and field correspond to those of modern Anastigmats , the combined effect of and will be least when .
If also then with sufficient approximation .
Dr. H. A Wilson .
[ June 3 , Thus with a lens 100 mm. focal length , aperture ratio F. 7 , field the greatest diameter of the image of any point ( defect due to i ) is mm. approx. ; that of a point on the axis ( defect due to e ) will be approx. mm. For these vaIues the effect of terms in of higher order would be appreciable ; but the results iustify the practice of correcting a single component\mdash ; the back one\mdash ; for astigmatism and spherical aberration , provided due atteution is paid to the securing of the condition for no distortion .
" " On the Discharge of Elecbricity from Hot Platinum By HAROLD A. WILSON , D.Sc .
, B.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Commnnicated by C. T. R. WILSON , F.PL .
S. Received June 3 , \mdash ; Read June 18 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of a series of experiments on the discharge of electricity from hot platinum wires .
The main object of the investigation was to determine the influence exerted by the nature of the gas in which the wire is immersed .
The first part of the paper contains a short account of some of the results obtained by previous investigators .
The rest of the paper is divided into the following sections : ( 1 ) Description of apparattls , \amp ; c. ( 2 ) The leak in , nitrogen and water vapour .
( 3 ) The variation of the negative leak with the temperature .
( 4 ) The leak in hydrogen .
( 5 ) The leak from palladium in hydrogen .
( 6 ) Summary of principal results .
( 7 ) clusion .
The wire used was of pure platinum , and was mounted like the filament of an incandescent lamp , in a glass tube .
A platinum.cylinder surrounded the wire , and the current from the wire to the cylinder , wibh various differences of potential between them , was measured with a galvanometer .
The wire was heated by passing a rent through it , and its temperature was determined from its resistance .
It was found that at low pressures using a wire not specially cleaned a large negative leak could be obtained .
This leak , however , was not the same on different occasions with the same wire , nor with diflerent lvires at the same temperature .
The leak on first heating a wire is very large , but falls off with the time .
If the wire is then left cold for some hours the leak is again large on first heating and falls off as before .
If the wire is kept at a constant temperature and the leak measured

