Jan. 26 , 1854 .
The ItEV .
BADEN POWELL , V.P. , in the Chair .
1 .
A paper was read , entitled " On the Vibrations and Tones produced by the contact of bodies having different Temperatures .
" By J. Tyndall , Esq. , F.R.S. Received Jan. 15 , 1854 .
The author introduces the subject of his paper by a brief description of the labours which have preceded his own , from the discovery of the phaTnomenon by Schwartz in 1805 to its revival and further examination by Trevelyan , Faraday , Forbes and Seebeck .
The peculiar views of Prof. Forbes , who regards the effects as due to a new species of mechanical agency in heat , were the chief inducement to the resumption of the subject by the author .
He examines the ground on which the theory of Prof. Forbes is based , and tests by experiment the general laws at which he has arrived .
The first of these laws is , that " the vibrations never take place between substances of the same nature .
" By converting the cold metal on which the hot rocker is placed into a thin plate , fixing this plate in a vice , and causing the rocker to rest upon the edge of the plate , the author obtained vibrations with iron on iron , brass on brass , copper on copper , silver on silver , zinc on zinc , tin on tin ; and thus shows the first law to be untenable .
the second general law affirms that " both substances must'be metallic .
" As exceptions to this law , the author adduces experiments made on about twenty non-metallic substances , with which perfectly distinct vibrations were obtained .
Among those which signalize themselves by the force and permanence of the rockings they produce , are to be found rock-salt , fluor-spar and rockcrystal .
With rockers similar to those described in the paper , and attending to the precautions there dwelt upon , vibrations and musical tones can be obtained withr it difficulty on these substances .
The third general law of Prof. Forbes states that " the vibrations are proportional within certain limits to the difference of the conducting powers of the metals for heat , the metal having the least conducting power being necessarily the coldest .
" The evidence adduced against the first law appears to destroy this one also .
The author however proceeds further , and reverses the conditions deemed essential by Prof. Forbes .
Silver stands at the head of conductors ; using it as the cold metal , he has obtained distinct tones with hot rockers of brass , copper and iron , placed upon it .
These and other experiments show that the third general law is , like the two others , untenable .
Prof. Forbes further states that two of the metals , bismuth and antimony , are perfectly inert ; the author has however obtained distinct tones with both of these substances .
He finally enters also into an examination of the arguments of Prof. Forbes against the views supported by Faraday , and shows how the facts adduced against the said views become , when duly considered , strong corroborative evidence of their correctness .
1 .
" The following letter from Prof. Dove to the Earl of Rosse , was read from the Chair .
" Berlin , Jan. 7 , 1854 .
MY LORD , -The vast stock of observations daily gathered by British Observatories for the promotion of terrestrial physics , always impressed me , as a scientific man , with gratitude towards a nation so worthy of the happy privilege of interrogating nature in every part of the globe .
To day , at the receipt of the unhoped-for honour awarded to me by the Royal Society ( the Copley Medal ) , for labours in a great measure grounded on those observations , I feel myself called upon to express a more personal , and still deeper , sense of gratitude .
May I beg of your Lordship to communicate to the Council and the Society my most respectful thanks for the approbation bestowed upon the result of my exertions ?
I am , my Lord , Your Lordship 's most obedient Servant , To the Earl of Rosse , H. W. )ovE .
President of the Royal Society .

