Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
465 were exploded at high initial pressures ; alia it was found possible to increase a ; up to 8 without causing any deposition of carbon on explosion .
The theoretical bearing of the results is fully discussed .
The final section of the paper describes experiments in which the whole pressure curves , up to and far beyond the attainment of maximum pressure , were recorded when mixtures corresponding to ( 1 ) 2H2 + 02+4U2 , ( 2 ) 200 + 02 + 41^2 , and ( 3 ) CH4 + O2+4N2 , are exploded under initial pressure of about 50 atmospheres .
It is shown that the rates of attainment of maximum pressure in each case have no direct relation to the order of affinities of the various gases for oxygen .
Electrical Effects accompanying the Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
II.\#151 ; Ionisation of the Gases produced during Fermentation .
By M. C. Potter , Sc. D. , M.A. , Professor of Botany in the University of Durham .
( Communicated by Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. Received February 26 , 1915 .
) It is well known that the gases liberated during certain chemical actions carry charges of electricity .
Thus Lavoisier and Laplace found that the hydrogen liberated from the action of hydrochloric acid upon iron is charged positively .
More recently Enright ( 1 ) has noted the same effect , and Townsend ( 2 ) has shown that the gases liberated during electrolysis are also charged .
In a previous paper ( 3 ) evidence has been brought forward to show that the decomposition of organic matter gives rise to electrical effects which are of the same nature as those produced by the action of acids upon metals .
It seemed therefore an interesting point to investigate whether the C02 escaping from the fermentation of a saccharine solution might carry an electric charge and be ionised .
To determine this point a series of experiments were carried out by the employment of a gold leaf electroscope and a Dolezalek electrometer .
The method adopted was to suspend a metal plate with rolled edge a few centimetres above the surface of glucose undergoing fermentation through the action of yeast , the metal plate being connected with the electroscope or electrometer , and the whole suitably screened in a box lined with tinfoil .
Readings were then taken in the ordinary manner .
VOL. xoi.\#151 ; a , 2 p 466 Prof. Potter .
Electrical Effects accompanying the Description of the Apparatus ( fig. 1).\#151 ; To avoid , as far as possible , the large accumulation of froth which always accompanies alcoholic fermentation , the fermenting glucose was enclosed in a shallow tin dish { a ) , 25 cm .
in diameter and 7 cm .
in depth , the large free surface permitting the C0a to escape more freely .
For the purpose of insulation the dish was supported upon three amberoid plugs ( / ) fixed in a wooden base ) , the key providing the means of earthing the dish , if required , through the earthed wire ( m ) .
The metal plate ( b ) , 2 25cm .
in diameter , was suspended by a copper wire ( c ) soldered to its upper surface , this copper wire passing through a sulphur plug ( d ) held firmly in a support ( e ) .
This portion of the apparatus was enclosed in a light wooden box ( A ) lined with tinfoil and Fig. 1 .
having a detachable front also lined with tinfoil .
By this means the fermenting glucose and accessory apparatus were effectually screened from external influence .
Attention has already been drawn to the well known fact that the COa evolved during fermentation does not escape freely from the fermenting liquid , and thus it is necessary to provide some means of stirring the yeast-glucose solution .
This was accomplished by means of a glass rod ( h ) bent at right angles ( with a short rod of ebonite ( j ) inserted for insulation ) and fixed to the inside of the box ( A ) by passing through the support ( ) , the lower portion being held horizontally just above the bottom of the dish and immersed in the fermenting liquid .
The upper end of this rod projected through small hole in the top of the box , and by turning the projecting Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
467 piece backwards and forwards the liquid in the dish could be stirred without disturbing its insulation .
The electroscope ( r ) employed was of the ordinary type , with a gold leaf measuring 4*5 cm .
in length by 1 mm. in breadth .
This was enclosed in a brass box with windows , protected by glass slips , cut in opposite sides for the observation of the gold leaf , sulphur being used for insulation .
The electroscope was screened by a wooden box ( B ) lined with tinfoil , similarly to the box A. It was charged from a battery of 220 volts by a bent wire ( l ) which passed through the sulphur plug ( s)fitted into a hole in the top of B. A convenient and inexpensive battery was contrived by connecting in series a number of " refills " used for electric torches .
Such a battery of 150 cells gave an E.M.F. of 220 volts , which remained constant for a considerable time .
The boxes A and B were carefully earthed and connected by a metal tube through which passed a copper wire ( ?
i ) insulated by the amberoid plugs ( o ) , the copper wire serving to connect the electroscope with the metal plate .
The movement of the gold leaf was observed by means of a horizontal microscope with a micrometer eyepiece .
It was found that five scale divisions of the eyepiece corresponded to a difference of charge of 4'4 volts upon the electroscope and plate .
The times at which the gold leaf passed over the divisions were taken by means of a stop-watch .
During each series of observations the times were noted for the fall of the gold leaf over the same divisions , which could readily be effected , as both the electroscope and plate were charged from the battery of 220 volts .
Before commencing any series of observations the insulation was carefully tested , especially that of the ebonite ( J ) inserted in the stirrer , which was rubbed with glass paper to ensure a clean surface .
For the glucose solution 100 grm. of ordinary commercial glucose were dissolved in one litre of water , and the solution was placed in the box A for some hours that it might acquire the same temperature as the box and its contents .
About 800 c.c. of this solution was then poured into the tin dish , the metal plate was placed in position , and a series of readings taken to determine the rate of leak of the gold leaf .
To the remaining 200 c.c. was added approximately 100 grm. of commercial pressed yeast to start the fermentation .
When the rate of leak had been determined the 200 c.c. containing the yeast was added to the solution already in the tin dish and readings were taken for the fall of the gold leaf under these conditions .
As the result of many observations it was found that when the dish contained glucose solution without yeast , the rate of electroscope leak was uniform over the same five scale divisions of the eyepiece , whether the electroscope was charged positively or negatively , and this rate of leak was 2 p 2 468 Prof. Potter .
Electrical Effects accompanying the uninfluenced by the action of the stirrer in the glucose .
That is the curve representing the rate of leak is a straight line .
The way was therefore clear for further advance .
The general plan of the experiments was to introduce the glucose and yeast in the manner just described , adjust the metal plate so that it would be suspended approximately 4 cm .
above the surface of the fermenting glucose and concentric with the dish , then connect the metal plate with the electroscope and charge them to the standard voltage ( 220 ) , recharging after each reading .
Owing to the necessity of stirring the glucose , the readings to determine the rate of leak of the electroscope were taken in sets of three , one immediately after the other : that is one reading before stirring ( ( I ) in the diagram ) , one during which the stirring was in operation ( II ) , and a third in which no stirring took place ( III ) .
Experiments with the .
Two sets of observations were required , viz. the electroscope and plate charged positively , and the electroscope and plate charged negatively .
In each case the disc containing the fermenting glucose was connected to earth .
Electroscope and Plate Charged Negatively.\#151 ; An example typical of many observations is shown in the diagram , fig. 2a and B. The curves in A refer to readings taken almost immediately after the introduction of the yeast , and before the full rate of velocity of the fermentation had been reached .
The times are plotted horizontally in minutes and the divisions of the eyepiece vertically .
The curves I and III are practically straight lines , and show that the rate of leak in the absence of stirring is uniform .
It will be noted that in III , after the stirring , the rate of leak is slower than in I. In II the curve is slightly bent , but as there is little evolution of CO2 at such an early stage the curves do not exhibit any very perceptible difference .
The three curves in B represent readings taken later than those in A , at a time when the fermentation would be actively proceeding .
Some 17 minutes elapsed between the curve II in b , and the corresponding one in A , and during this interval a large quantity of CO2 would be formed and not liberated from the fermenting solution until stirring took place .
Curves I and III are again straight lines , but the times occupied by the gold leaf passing over the five divisions are somewhat faster than was the case in A. The curve III also again shows a decreased rate of leak as compared with I , owing no doubt to the liberation of the entangled CO2 during the process of stirring .
Curve II shows in a marked degree the sudden evolution of the CO2 due to the action of the stirrer .
At the commencement of the Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
stirring the entangled CO2 rapidly escaped , and simultaneously the gold leaf fell through one and a half divisions in 36 seconds , a great contrast MINUTES Fig. 2b .
to the rate of leak in I and II , when the time occupied for the leaf to fall over the first division was and 2 minutes respectively .
After the sudden ebullition of the COa , due to the action of the stirrer , the stirring was stopped , and the fall of the gold leaf then became very slow , taking 4 minutes 24 seconds to reach the next division .
During 470 Prof. Potter .
Electrical Effects accompanying the this time C02 would accumulate , and on proceeding again to stir the gold leaf fell through the next division in 48 seconds .
The stirrer was now stopped again , and 3 minutes 42 seconds were occupied by the .
leaf in falling to the fourth division .
Then on the re-commencement of stirring 1| .
minutes only were occupied in falling to the last division .
As mentioned above , five scale divisions are equivalent to a difference of 4'4 volts .
Thus curve II shows that at the commencement of the stirring the electroscope and plate lost a charge of 1*32 volts in 40 seconds , in striking contrast to curve 1 , which represents a discharge of 0*88 volt in 1 minute 30 seconds .
During the next period ( 4 minutes 24 seconds ) , when the stirrer was not in action , the fall of the leaf was very slow , and the discharge only 0 44 volt .
As soon as the leaf reached the second division , and stirring took place , the same rapid discharge of the electroscope was repeated , a discharge of 0'88 volt occurring in 48 seconds .
Similarly there was again a quick discharge when stirring took place at the fourth division .
Electroscope and Plate Charged Positively.\#151 ; The results obtained under these conditions ( fig. 3a and b ) are of the same character as those indicated when the electroscope and plate were charged negatively , and need not , therefore , be dealt with in detail .
As in the latter case , the readings taken just after the introduction of the yeast ( fig. 3a ) show little difference between the curves I , II , and III , as there would be only a slight evolution of C02 .
But after the lapse of half an hour the effect of the escaping C02 is again plainly shown ( fig. 3b ) .
Curves I and III are as before straight lines , showing that approximately the same rate of discharge had been maintained .
Curve II shows the rapid discharge of the needle consequent upon the action of the stirrer , then a slow rate of discharge when the stirring was discontinued , followed by a rapid discharge upon the re-commencement of stirring , and so on .
With a 10-per-cent , solution of glucose there is always a considerable amount of froth , and it might be objected that the accumulation of this froth , diminishing the distance between the surface of the fermenting glucose and the metal plate , would alter the capacity of the electroscope and plate , and thus cause an error in the electroscope readings .
Many experiments were tried with the object of diminishing the froth , and it was found that with a 2'5-per-cent , solution of glucose it was reduced to a few bubbles and no accumulation occurred .
Also with this strength of solution the fermentation proceeded rapidly , and the quantity of C02 evolved was sufficient to give reliable readings during the time required for each experiment* It seemed , therefore , desirable to adopt this formula for further Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
471 j tests , and the following set of experiments were carried out in the same manner as the two just described , but with the employment of a 2-5-per-cent .
glucose instead of the 10-per-cent .
I 2 -64 ) J 1176 .88 2 4 6 8 10 MINUTES Fig. 3a .
MINUTES Fig. 3b .
Electroscope and Plate Charged Negatively.\#151 ; In fig. 4a and B are given the curves obtained from a 2*5 solution of glucose , with approximately 100 grm. of yeast .
A comparison of these figures with figs. 2 and 3 shows that with the weaker solution much steeper curves were obtained , but they retained Prof. Potter .
Electrical Effects accompanying the the same characteristics .
Curves I and III are again straight lines .
In fig. 4a , taken from observations made as soon as possible after the introMINUTES Fig. 4b .
MINUTES Fig. 4a .
duction of the yeast , curves I and III were identical in the particular experiment here described ; while curve II coincided with these in the initial stages , but after the gold leaf had passed the second division its rate of discharge was somewhat slower .
Pig .
4b gives the result of observations made some 20 minutes after the introduction of the yeast , and when its full activity had been reached .
The effect of stirring is shown in curve II , the time occupied for the gold leaf to fall through the first two divisions being equal to that taken for the leaf to fall through one division in the case of curves I and III .
On account of the gradient of the curves the slow rate of discharge after stirring is not a noticeable feature , but it may be remarked that the rate of fall in curve II , after stirring , is the same as in curve III .
Electroscope and Plate Charged Positively.\#151 ; The curves for this experiment Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
with a positive charge are given in fig. 5a and B , and repeat in character the results obtained with the negative charge .
Fig. 5a , representing MINUTES MINUTES Fig. 5a .
_ Fig. 5b .
readings taken immediately after the introduction of the yeast , presents the same features as the other curves already given from similar observations ; and fig. 5b , derived from readings after the lapse of half an hour , when the fermentation was fully established , again strikingly illustrates the sudden fall of the gold leaf as the result of stirring .
In curve II the leaf fell through two divisions in 30 seconds , whereas in curves I and III it fell through one division in 45 seconds and 60 seconds respectively .
A comparison of the results obtained from the1 10-per-cent , and 2'5-percent .
solutions of glucose show that they are confirmatory one of the other .
An explanation of the fact that the 2'5-per-cent , solutions give much steeper curves is afforded by the observations of Adrian Brown ( 4 ) , O'Sullivan ( 5 ) , and others , who found that within certain limits the amount of sugar did not influence the rate of fermentation .
Slator(6 ) , working with a definite number of yeast cells , has also shown that the rate of fermentation is practically the same from 0'5-per-cent , to 10-per-cent , solutions of glucose .
The experiments with the 10-per-cent , and 2*5-per-cent , glucose were conducted at approximately the same temperature , and with roughly the same number of yeast cells per litre of glucose solution , and hence approximately the same quantity of CO2 would be formed in equal intervals 474 Prof. Potter .
Electrical Effects accompanying the of time .
But , on account of the greater viscosity of the stronger solution , the COg is in great measure prevented from escaping , as evidenced by the accumulation of froth ; but in the weaker solution the CO2 escapes more readily , and , as a consequence , the rate of fall of the gold leaf is more rapid and the curves are steeper .
9 Experiments with the Electrometer .
With the object of testing the results obtained with the gold leaf electroscope , a series of observations were made by substituting a Dolezalek electrometer for the electroscope in the box B. One pair of quadrants was connected to the metal plate and the other pair earthed , the arrangements otherwise remaining the same .
The dish containing the fermenting glucose was raised to a potential of 110 volts , this potential being found sufficient to produce a saturation current .
The electrometer needle was suspended by a fine wire of phosphor bronze and was also maintained at a potential of 110 volts .
It was found , by connecting one pole of a Clark cell to the plate and the other to the earth , that a deflection of 50 scale divisions corresponded to 1*4 volts when the needle was charged to 110 volts .
For the reasons given in the account of experiments with the electroscope , a 2'5-per-cent , solution of glucose , with approximately 100 grms. of yeast , was again employed as the formula from which the most reliable results could be obtained .
A 10-per-cent , glucose solution was also used for comparison of results , as well as a 1-per-cent .
Many trials were made with the electrometer to test the effect produced by the action of the stirrer in a solution of glucose without the addition of yeast .
The stirring was found to have no influence upon the electrometer readings .
The same system of reading was followed as has been previously described for the electroscope , that is : one reading without stirring , * one immediately after while the stirring was in progress , and a third directly after the stirring ceased , the dish and quadrants being earthed after each reading .
The Dish and Fermenting Glucose Charged to 110 Volts Negatively.\#151 ; The readings taken as soon as possible after the introduction of the yeast showed little or no difference in the rate of movement of the spot of light across the scale , whether the stirrer was in operation or not .
After allowing an interval of about half an hour for the fermentation to be thoroughly set up , it was found from many experiments that a great difference was at once noticeable between the readings taken when the stirrer was wording and those immediately preceding or following .
When the Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
475 fermenting glucose was left undisturbed the spot of light moved at a uniform rate , but when stirring took place it at first instantly moved rapidly over the scale and was then succeeded by a slower movement .
In one particular experiment selected for illustration , 4 minutes 20 seconds were occupied by the spot of light in moving over 10 scale divisions in the absence of stirring , whereas immediately upon the commencement of stirring the spot moved quickly , eight divisions being passed over in 1 minute and the next two divisions in 1 minute 15 seconds .
In the next observation , during which the medium was again left quiescent , the spot of light moved uniformly at the same rate as in the first case .
The Dish and Fermenting Glucose Charged to 110 Volts Positive.\#151 ; In this case also , immediately after the introduction of the yeast , the action of the stirrer produced no alteration in the rate of movement of the spot of light .
But after allowing sufficient time for a vigorous fermentation to be set up , the spot of light moved rapidly as soon as stirring commenced , reverting to a slower rate of movement after the escape of the CO* To cite one experiment , before the glucose was stirred it took 3| minutes for the spot of light to traverse 10 scale divisions , while seven divisions were passed over within one minute of the commencement of the stirring .
Then following this escape of COa , minutes were required for the next three divisions to be passed over .
It is thus seen that whether the fermenting glucose is charged negatively or positively the same results are obtained .
That is , readings taken immediately after the addition of the yeast to the glucose solution , when fermentation had hardly commenced , show the charging of the metal plate to be influenced in a very slight degree by stirring .
But at a later stage , when agitation produced a sudden liberation of CO2 , the metal plate is rapidly charged .
The results obtained from the Dolezalek electrometer are in all respects in close agreement with those obtained from the electroscope .
From these experiments it may be deduced that the CO2 , when emerging from a saccharine solution , carries an electric charge or , in other words , is ionised .
Also , since the electroscope is discharged , whether it be negatively or positively electrified , and as the electrometer needle is deflected , whether the fermenting glucose is charged positively or negatively , it may be concluded that both positive and negative ions are carried by the escaping CO2 .
With regard to the different times quoted in these experiments , it should be remarked that to equate the results the fermentation must be carried out with solutions of glucose of precisely equal strength , maintained at the same temperature and fermented by means of an accurately determined number of actively living yeast cells , taken from a pure culture of the same biologic 476 Prof. Potter .
Electrical Effects accompanying the form .
Up to the present it has not been found possible to satisfy these necessary conditions .
Nor has it yet been possible to compare the ionisation produced by yeast with a standard solution of a radium salt .
The investigation goes no further than to indicate that the escaping CO2 carries both positive and negative ions .
Lord Kelvin ( 7 ) has shown that air when bubbled through water is ionised , and this fact , as Sir J. J. Thomson ( 8 ) has pointed out , renders the interpretation of results difficult when they concern the evolution of gases through a liquid .
But air bubbled through water carries with it a negative charge , and when , as in this case , the emerging gas is both negatively and positively electrified it may be assumed that the electrification is due to the fermentation and not merely to the bubbling .
* The author ( 3 ) has already demonstrated that electrical effects accompany the decomposition of organic compounds , and as the CO2 escaping from a fermenting saccharine solution also shows the presence of both positive and negative ions , it may be inferred that the gases liberated during the process of putrefaction are also ionised .
This possibility introduces another element for consideration in connection with the researches on the radioactivity of water and soils .
Many investigations have been made upon the presence of radium emanation in various waters and in the soil air , the detection of the radium emanation being determined by the electroscope and electrometer , and a comparison of the results of these researches with those which are now described offers an interesting parallel .
Sir J. J. Thomson ( 9 ) has shown that air when bubbled through Cambridge tap water " shows all the peculiarities of a gas in which continuous ionisation is taking place .
" He also considers that if the effects produced are due to the deposition of a radioactive substance , such substance must have come from the water .
Yet upon evaporating the water to dryness upon a metal plate this did not show any ionising power .
Adams ( 10 ) has followed up the results of Sir J. J. Thomson by an investigation into the nature and properties of this radioactive gas .
When comparing it with air blown through distilled water in which a radium compound was dissolved , he found that while these two gases possessed many similarities there were important differences .
For instance , the solution containing the radium salt , when thoroughly boiled and all the emanation expelled , does not recover its radioactive properties even after a long time , whereas the radioactivity \#174 ; f tap water cannot be entirely destroyed by boiling , and on allowing it to stand it becomes again radioactive , though not to the same extent as before .
He also showed that the residue obtained from evaporating large quantities of tap water is not Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
477 radioactive .
Adams considers that these results can only be explained by assuming a continuous production of a radioactive emanation in the water .
These , observations of Thomson and Adams appear to lend considerable support to the suggestion that much of the radium emanation found in various waters may be really due to ionised gases formed during the natural decomposition of organic matter through the action of micro-organisms .
In such a case " continuous ionisation " would be a natural result , but the residue , after evaporation to dryness , would not be likely to yield any ionising power , as it would not provide suitable conditions for bacterial life .
It may be pointed out that in the account of these experiments there is no mention of their being carried out in such a manner as to exclude bacterial contamination .
Boiling would kill all the micro-organisms actively living in the water , but not necessarily those in the spore stage , some of which would probably survive and germinate when the conditions once more became favourable .
In certain special cases boiling is even of positive advantage .
Miquel(ll ) has shown that during the process of boiling certain toxins inimical to bacterial life are destroyed , and this is further supported by the experiments carried out by the Massachusetts State Board of Health ( 12 ) , which show that the power of multiplication of certain bacteria is increased enormously in water which has been boiled .
While it is also thoroughly established by the experiments of Mead Bolton and others ( 13 ) that certain water bacteria possess the remarkable power of extensive multiplication in sterilised distilled water , these special forms might not be present ; and further , in the absence of organic constituents , one may presume that no ionisation would take place .
Thus it is possible to account for the fact that Adams found radioactivity regenerated in tap water but not in boiled distilled water .
Unless special precautions were taken it is almost certain that tap water would contain many active bacteria after standing for some time , especially as this contains a small amount of organic matter .
In this connection it is of interest to note that Satterly ( 14 ) has found that Cam water taken at Sheep 's Green , which would presumably contain more organic matter than Cambridge tap water , also contains twice as much radium .
Joly ( 15 ) found a greater amount of radium at Valencia Harbour and at certain localities round the Irish coast than in the open ocean some miles from land .
He also found that a part of the radium may be filtered from sea water which contains much organic matter and has been left standing for some weeks , and suggests that it is possibly precipitated by bacterial action in the decomposing organic particles .
478 Prof. Potter .
Electrical Effects accompanying the Satterly ( 16 ) has found that marsh gas ( CH4 ) collected in the Cam and ditches around Cambridge is radioactive .
It is significant that marsh gas is one of the products arising from the decomposition of vegetable matter through the action of bacteria .
The question of atmospheric ionisation has also been the subject of many investigations , since Elster and Geitel demonstrated the presence of radioactivity and ionisation in the atmosphere , and the source of this ionisation has been much studied .
These authors , and later Satterly ( 17 ) , have shown that air sucked up from the earth is ionised , and it is generally admitted that the ionisation of the air is due to ionised gases escaping from the soil or from water .
The influence of meteorological conditions upon the amount of atmospheric ionisation does not at present seem to be very conclusively established .
Satterly ( 18 ) failed to demonstrate any definite connection between the variations of the barometer and the variations of the ionisation , though some of his observations point to the fact that the ionisation increases with a falling barometer unless accompanied by wet weather .
On the other hand , Eve ( 19 ) has shown that the emanations increase in amount during cyclones accompanied by heavy rain or rapid thaw and decrease during anticyclones with dry weather and , in winter , low temperatures .
He explains that diminishing pressure causes radium emanation , together with other gases , to escape from the ground , and that the moistening of the soil through rain and melting snow promotes the liberation of these gases .
On this point it may be noted that , when estimating the bacteria in the Rivers Thames and Lea , Erankland ( 20 ) found that during rainy weather the number of bacteria increased enormously as a consequence of the washing of organic matter from cultivated land into the rivers , and hence these micro-organisms were much more numerous during the rainy winter months than in those of the dry summer .
Parallel results have been obtained from similar investigations of other rivers .
It is also to be observed that the conditions of sudden warmer temperatures with heavy rainfall noted by Eve for the promotion of radium emanation in the atmosphere are also those which favourably influence the activity of bacterial life .
Here again it seems a reasonable hypothesis that part at least of the atmospheric ionisation may be due to ionised gases escaping from the putrefying organic matter present in the soil and water .
It has been recognised that the radium emanation by no means accounts for the whole production of ions in the air , and Satterly 's ( 18 ) experiments bring him to the conclusion that " only a small proportion of the natural ionisation of the air is due^o the presence of radium emanation and its products .
" Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
479 Keference may here be made to a former paper ( 3 ) , in which it was shown that in the case of fermenting glucose separated by a membrane from nonfermenting glucose , the former was negative ( zincative ) with respect to the latter and also that this proposition was true with regard to putrefying organic matter .
From this it may reasonably be inferred that decaying organic matter may have an influence upon the electric potential of the earth 's surface , at least in its immediate vicinity .
Though it has not been possible so far to determine quantitatively the ionisation derivable from the activity of the yeast cells nor to give any indication of the relative importance of the processes of ionisation passed in review , yet sufficient evidence has been adduced to establish the fact that fermentation gives rise to ionised gases .
Many observations also seem to support the conclusion that some of the ionisation effects noted in the air and in the gases derived from water and the soil may be traced to the natural decomposition of organic matter .
I venture , therefore , to set forth a plea that biologic forces should be taken into consideration in seeking the sources of natural ionisation .
Nothing is yet known of the possible electrification of the air through the metabolic and physiological activities in plants , and the putrefactive processes alone throughout the whole realm of nature may represent a potent factor in the production of ions and play a part in the cloud and mist formations and other manifestations included in the phenomena of electrification .
The occupation of Armstrong College by the military and its conversion into the Northern Base Hospital in August , 1914 , put an end to any further research in my laboratory , and I regret that there has been no opportunity to complete some other work which I had intended to carry out , and many problems connected with this investigation must await further elucidation .
Summary .
The CO2 liberated during fermentation of glucose through the action of yeast carries both positive and negative ions , and the suggestion is offered that the gases set free during the putrefaction of organic matter are also ionised .
Part of the ionisation of the atmosphere may be attributed to the presence of such ionised gases escaping from the soil and water , and it may be assumed that putrefactive processes in nature exercise an important influence upon various electrical phenomena .
Decomposition of Organic Compounds .
LITERATURE .
Adams ( 10 ) .
" Water Radioactivity , " ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1903 .
Brown , Adrian ( 4 ) .
" Influence of Oxygen and Concentration on Alcoholic Fermentation , " ' Journ. Cbem .
Soc. , ' 1892 .
Enright(1 ) .
" On Electrifications due to the Contact of Gases with Liquids , " 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1890 .
Eve ( 19 ) .
" On the Amount of Radium Emanation in the Atmosphere near the Earth 's Surface , " ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1908 .
Frankland ( 20 ) .
' Micro-organisms in Water , ' 1894 .
Joly ( 15 ) .
" Radioactivity of Sea Water , " ' Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 15 ( 1908 ) .
Kelvin ( 7 ) .
" Electrification of Air and other Gases by Bubbling through Water and other Liquids , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 57 ( 1895 ) .
Massachusetts(12 ) .
See Frankland , 'Micro-organisms in Water , ' p. 229 .
Mead Bolton ( 13 ) .
See Frankland , ' Micro-organisms in Water , ' p. 231 .
Miquel(ll ) .
See Frankland , 'Micro-organisms in Water , ' p. 228 .
O'Sullivan ( 5 ) .
" On the Rate of Alcoholic Fermentation , " 'Journ .
Soc. Chem. Ind. , 1898 .
Potter ( 3 ) .
" Electric Effects accompanying the Decomposition of Organic Compounds , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 84 ( 1911 ) .
Satterley ( 14 ) .
" Note on the Radium-content of the Waters of the Cam , Cambridge Tap Water , and some Varieties of Charcoal , " ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 15 ( 1910 ) .
----(16 ) .
" The Radioactivity of Marsh Gas , " 'Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 16 ( 1911 ) .
----(17 ) .
" A Study of the Radium Emanation contained in the Air of Various Soils , " ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 16 ( 1911 ) .
----(18 ) .
" The Amount of Radium Emanation in the Atmosphere , " ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1908 .
Slator ( 6 ) .
" Studies in Fermentation .
I.\#151 ; The Chemical Dynamics of Alcoholic Fermentation by Yeast , " 'Journ .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1906 .
Thomson ( 8 ) .
' Conductivity of Electricity through Gases , ' 1906 .
----(9 ) .
" Experiments on Induced Radioactivity in Air , and on the Electrical Conductivity produced in Gases when they Pass through Water , " ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1902 .
Townsend ( 2 ) .
" Electrical Properties of Newly Prepared Gases , " ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 9 ( 1898 ) .

