" On the Fossil Remains of the soft parts of Foraminifera discovered in the Chalk and Flint of the South-east of England .
" By Gideon Algernon Mantell , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. By subjecting small portions of calcareous rock to the action of diluted hydrochloric acid , the calcareous earth and the shells it had enveloped were removed ; the residue consisting of particles of quartz and of green silicate of iron ; and also numerous remains of the soft parts of animalcules , chiefly Xanthidia and Rotalia .
The organization of the latter appears , from the observations of Ehrenberg , to be very simple , and to have no relation with the Cephalopoda , as was formerly imagined .
The body is enclosed within the shell , which is polythalamous , and it occupies not only the outer chamber , but also all the cells contemporaneously , and the shell is pierced all over with minute pores , through which tentacula protrude ; and there are also several soft transparent feelers , or pseudopodia , which are instruments of locomotion .
When the shell is removed by acid , the soft body is exposed , and is seen to extend to the innermost chamber ; and there is a connecting tube occupying the place of the siphuncle of the nautilus , but which is the intestinal canal ; for the cells are the receptacles of the digestive sacs or stomachs , in which monads , navicule , and other minute infusoria , which the animal had swallowed , may sometimes be observed .
In the fossil remains , the appearance of the parts which the author supposes to be the digestive organs , is that of a series of bladders or sacs , composed of a tough flexible integument , and connected by a tube .
These organs are more or less filled with a dark substance ; those which are distended are always well-defined , while the empty ones are collapsed and disposed in folds , just as membranous pouches would appear under similar conditions .
lThe sacs regularly diminish in size from the outer to the innermost cell , and vary in number firot fourteen to twenty-six .
In some instances , small papilla are observable on the external surface of the integument , which are probably vestiges of the bases of the pseudopodia or tentacula .
Drawings of the various specimens described by the author accompany the paper .

