]\gt ; .
M. J. M. Hill .
Motion of Fluid , part of .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
Dr. David Gill was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read : I. " " On the Motion of Fluid , part of which is moYing Rota tionally and part Irrotationally By M. J. M. Hill , M.A. , Professor of Mathematics at the Science Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor G. G. STOIIES .
Sec. R.S. Received December 29 , 1883 .
Clebsch has shown that the components of the velocity of a flui6 , parallel to rectangular axes , may always be expressed thus\mdash ; ; where systems of surfaces whose intersections determine vortex lines ; and the prcssure satisfies an equation which equiva .
lent to the following\mdash ; where is the pressure , the density , and the potential of the forces acting on the liquid .
It is shown in this paper that an equation in only can be obtained in the following cases ( that is to say , as in cases of irrotational motion , the determination of the motion depends on the solution of a single equation only ) ( 1 .
) Plane motion , referred to rectangular -ordinates being a function of , let be expressed as a function of by substituting in it for its value in terms of found *British Association Report for 1881 , p. 62 .
which is moving Rotationally and part lrrotationally .
277 the equation which gives as a function of .
Let the I be denoted by Let differentials of , regarded as independent variables , be respectively .
Thus J is am integral taken with regard to and being 'onsidered constant .
is the differential coefficient of the above integral with lregard to and being considered constant .
denotes that is expressed as a function of , and the result .
integrated with regard to and being considered oonstant .
and are the symbols of arbitrary functions .
Then the equation in is shown to be\mdash ; and the current function is For a vortex of invariable form moving parallel to the axis of ?
/ with velocity ( where is a function of only ) the equation in becomes\mdash ; and the current function is ( 2 .
) Plane motion , referred to polar -ordinates The current function is For a vortex of invariable form rotating about the origin with il angular velocity , this equation becomes and the curl'ent function is ( 3 .
) Motion symmetrical with regard to the axis of in planes ) .
passing through it , referred to cylindric -ordinates The equation in is\mdash ; .
The current function is which is moving Rotationalty and part Irrotatio .
279 For a vortex of invariable form which moves parallel to the axis with velocity , this equation becomes\mdash ; nd the current function is Suppose that in any of these cases any pal.ticular integral of the equation in is taken .
function is also known .
In the case of a fluid , part of which is moving rotationally and part irrotationally , the boundary surface separating the rotationally moving fluid from that which is moving irrotationally the same vortex lines , and may be taken as the surface Now , if the integral taken of the equation in do actually correspond to a case of fluid motion in which part of the fluid is moving and part irrotationally , the most obvious way to find the irrotational motion will be to find its current function from the conditions supplied by the fact that the components of the velocity are continuous at the surface .
If after taking any integral of the equation in it be found theoretically impossible to determine the current ffinction of an irrotational motion outside the surface which shall be continuous with the rotational motion inside it , then the integral in question does not correspond to such a case of fluid motion .
In this method no assumption is made as to the distribution of the vortex lines ( as in the method of Helmholtz ) before commencing the determination of the irrotational motion .
On the other hand , it is not a particular case of a method applicable to motion in space of three dimensions .
But it can be shown that Clebsch 's forms for the components of the velocity do also lead to a method which is applicable to the deter mination of the irrotational motion when the rotational motion in space of three dimensions is known .
For the rotational motion being known , the components of the velocity are known for this part of the fluid .
Let the components of the velocity be expressed in Clebsch 's forms , so that , are known .
Moreover , let the forms be so arranged that the surface separating V0L .
xxxvr .
Then at this surface the components of the velocity are ) Now , obtain in any manner a velocity potential for space outsids continuous with all over the surface .
This is theoreticall possible always .
motion will have been obtained .
sure continuous aover turface hthen aContinuous arder tressure montinuou , ocity pbtained mocity arThe conditions tatisfied irder t necessary that all over the surface The most obvious way of obtaining the velocity potential will be to apply Helmholtz 's method of finding the components of the velocity in terms of the supposed distribution of magnetic matter throughout the space occupied by the rotationally moving fluid .
It must , however , be remembered , as is remarked by Mr. Hicks in his report to the British Association on " " Recent Progress in Hydro dynamics Part I , * ' ' That the results refer to the cyclic motion of the fluid as determined by the supposed distribution of magnetio matter , and do not give the most general motion possible It appears also from Examples and III of this paper that it is not possibl to assume arbitrarily the distribution of vortex Iines , even when it can be shown that the equations of motion are satisfied at all poin4 where the fluid is moving rotationally , and then to proceed to culate the irrotational motion by means of supposed distribution of magnetic matter .
For in these examples , values of the components of the velocity of a ro.tational motion , sa , tisfying the equations of motion throughout a finite portion of the plane of , are found .
Thus distribution of vortex lines , and , therefore , that of the supposed magnetic matter over a finite portion of the plane of is known .
The surfaces that always contain the same vortex filamenbs are found .
Inside one of these the supposed magnetic matter is distributed , the current function at external points is calculated by method , and it is shown that the velocity so found is not continuou wibh the velocity at the surface , which separates the rotationally moving liquid from that moving irrotationally .
nother way ( suggested by CIebsch 's forms ) oif obtaining velocity potential will be as follows:\mdash ; * Beport for 1881 , Part I , p. 64 .
which is moving Rotationall ?
f and part rotationally .
281 Calculate the quantity .
Treating as the density of a material distribution inside , taking account of the value of outside the surface , obtain the otential of this distribution .
Let the potential inside be , and utside let it be will , in general , differ from ; first , because may contain manyralued terms , which may be denoted by satisfying Laplace 's equa ; and , secondly , because may be the potential of a distribuof matter , part of which is outside Accordingly , it is necessary to examine whether it is possible to find many-valued terms satisfying Laplace 's equation such that Then will be the velocity potential of the irrotational motion , provided that it give zero velocity at infinity .
The few illustrations which follow are a first attempt to apply the above theory to particular cases .
Example 1 .
being rectangular co-ordinates in a plane , any function of the time its differential co- efficient with regard to the time .
, constants , the components of the velocity parallel to the axes , it is shown that satisfy the equations of motion .
The surfaces containing the same particles are the elliptic cylinders constant .
For a finite portion of the plane of outside the cylinder , the function of an irrotational otion continuous with that inside the cylinder is\mdash ; ( ) where are the elliptic -ordinates satisfying the equatio1ls ' and are constants .
the components of the velocity parallel to the rotating axes .
const .
in this case are velocities parallel fixed rectangular axes in space ) .
It is shown that satisfy tho } .
tions of motion .
The surfaces containing the same particles are the elliptic cylindera constJ .
If which i , then the motion may be supposed to be given by the above values of inside the cylinder and therefore to be rotational ; but outside this it may be supposoCl irrotational , and its velocity potential where is the root of , which ] lies between - and being Example 3 .
With the same values for as in the last exampls except , however , the reIation between and , it is shown that irrotational motion continuous with the rotational motion inside cylinder can exist between this and a confocal ellipti smooth rigid cylinder surl'ounding it ; provided that confocal cylinder be made to rotate with the same angular velocity The of the confocal cylinder is\mdash ; where which ismoving Rotatio and part Irrotationally .
283 The components of the velocity of this rotationally moving liquid and .
The components of the velocity of the irrotationally moving liquid Example 4 .
The vortex sheets are coaxial circular cylinders , and Ae motion is everywhere perpendicular to the radius vectol from the bXiS , and a function of the distance .
Thus radial velocity , velocity radius .
This example is given merely to illustrate the expression of the comonents of the velocity in Clebsch 's forms , It is shown that .
If , and the rotational motion be supposed confined to the interior of the cylinder , then a suitable value of the velocity potential at external points is\mdash ; Example 5 .
being cylindric -ordinates .
, an arbitrary function of the time ; , its differential coefficient with regard to time .
positive constants .
7 the velocity from the axis of cylindric -ordinates in the } ) of the velocity paraUel the axis of indric c It is shown that ; satisfy the equations of motion .
The paper with an Appendix , in which has been placed account of Examples 1 and 2 , the calculation of the potential of elliptic cylinder , the density of which at the point , is ( Although this density is infinite along the axis of the cylinder , yet the total amount of matter ill any elliptic cylinder surrounding axis whose equation is const .
, however small the constant may be , vanishes .
Hence it is not singular that the potential is finite .
) potential inside is\mdash ; The potential outside is\mdash ;

