240 Mr. C. T. R. Wilson .
Condensation of Water Vapour front of or behind the thrower ; in each of these cases success has been attained .
An explanation is also afforded of the returning of a boomerang without " twist , " made by Mr. 0 .
Eckenstein , and of the wonderfully long , straight trajectories of some of the native nonreturning implements .
" Condensation of Water Vapour in the presence of Dust-free Air and other Gases .
" By C. T. R. Wilson , B.Se .
( Viet .
) , M.A. ( Cantab .
) , of Sidney Sussex College , Clerk-Maxwell Student in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 15 , Read April 8 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) In a note read before the Cambridge Philosophical Society ( May 13 , 1895 ) I stated , as the result of some preliminary experiments , that when air , originally saturated with aqueous vapour , undergoes sudden expansion exceeding a certain critical amount , condensation takes place in the form of drops throughout the moist air , even in the absence of all foreign nuclei .
The present paper contains an account of the measurements which were afterwards made of this critical expansion in air and other gases , as well as of further phenomena which have since been observed in connection with the condensation of aqueous vapour from the supersaturated state .
Two different forms of expansion apparatus have been used .
Both were designed to enable a given sample of the saturated gas to be suddenly expanded as often as might be desired without any risk of foreign nuclei entering .
All such nuclei originally present were removed by repeatedly forming a cloud by expansion and allowing it to settle , till expansions of moderate amount ceased to cause any visible condensation .
In both forms of apparatus a definite expansion of any desired amount could be produced .
They were designed to give an exceedingly rapid expansion , the rate at which the volume was increasing being greatest , too , just before the expansion was completed , when the temperature was lowest and the influx of heat from the walls most rapid ; so that , as indeed appears from the constancy of the results obtained , the theoretical lowering of temperature must have been very nearly reached .
The two machines , in spite of the fact that the volume of the air in the first was twenty times as great as that contained in the second , gave identical results .
The larger machine was only used in the experiments on air .
in the presence of dust-free Air and other Gases .
241 If air , initially saturated and free from all foreign nuclei , be suddenly allowed to expand , a rain-like condensation results if the ratio of the final to the initial volume , vexceeds 1*252 ; no condensation taking place except on the walls of the vessel with smaller expansions .
When Vi/ viexceeds 1*252 the condensation continues to be rainlike , showing over quite a wide range no visible increase in the number of the drops with increasing expansion , till a second quite definite limit is reached when v2/ vi lies between 1*37 and 1*38 .
With expansions greater than this the condensation is cloud-like , the number of the drops which are formed increasing at an enormously rapid rate with increasing expansion .
If v2/ vi be made successively greater and greater , a very definite series of colour phenomena is observed as this ratio is increased from 1*38 to 1*44 , indicating a very rapid diminution in the size , and corresponding increase in the number of the cloud particles with increasing supersaturation .
Only the smaller apparatus was used in the experiments on the cloud-like condensation , the time taken for the expansion to be completed being much shorter than in the other .
Experiments wex*e made upon the condensation phenomena in the presence of oxygen , hydrogen , nitrogen , chlorine and carbonic acid .
Of these , all except hydrogen were alike in showing the two forms of condensation , each requiring a definite degree of supersaturation to produce it .
Chlorine is too far removed from the condition of a perfect gas to enable the lowering of temperature and resulting supersaturation to be calculated .
This can be done , however , in the case of the other gases .
By the supersaturation is here meant the ratio of the actual density of the vapour when the expansion has just been completed , and the minimum temperature has therefore been reached , to the density of the vapour in equilibrium over a flat surface of water at that temperature .
We may summarise the results obtained with the various gases , , including air , as follows :\#151 ; In order that rain-like condensation may result in the presence of any of these gases , except hydrogen , the expansion must be sufficient to cause the supersaturation to exceed a certain value , amounting , when the final temperature is \#151 ; 6 ' C. , to between 4*2 and 4*4 , and diminishing with rising temperature .
In order that cloud-like condensation may take place in the presence of any of these gases , including hydrogen , the expansion must be sufficient to cause the supersaturation to exceed a certain value , , amounting , when the final temperature is about \#151 ; 16 ' C. , to 7*9 .
When the supersaturation reached lies between these limits rain- 242 Condensation of Vapour in the presence of dust-free Air , fyc .
like condensation results in all the gases , except hydrogen , in which scarcely any trace of condensation is seen when the supersaturation is even slightly below 7'9 .
A statement of the effect of the Rontgen rays upon condensation in the presence of air was given in a note read before the Royal Society , on March 3 , 1896 .
The rays have the effect of greatly increasing the number of the drops , the minimum expansion required to cause condensation being unaltered .
Experiments have been made upon the effect of these rays when hydrogen is substituted for air .
Their effect on the moist hydrogen is to introduce nuclei , which only require the supersaturation to reach the same limit as is required for rain-like condensation in air and the other gases , in order that condensation may take place upon them .
In all these experiments the X-rays had to pass through glass to reach the gas , and must have been thereby very much reduced in intensity , yet their effect in the case of hydrogen was quite noticeable when the bulb producing them was 120 cm .
from the .expansion apparatus .
' The nuclei which bring about the rain-like condensation are equivalent , in their power of helping condensation , to water drops of 8'6 X 10-8 cm .
in radius , that is , water drops of this size would just be able to grow in vapour supersaturated to the extent actually required to bring about condensation .
This number is calculated on the assumption that Boyle 's law holds for the supersaturated vapour , and that the surface tension retains its ordinary value even in such small drops .
It must , therefore , only be considered as a rough approximation .
On the same assumptions , the nuclei which are able to act as centres of condensation when the supersaturation is sufficient to cause the cloud-like condensation , are equivalent to drops of 6-4 x 10-8 cm .
, or less , in radius .
They are present , as we have seen , in all the gases tried , when saturated with aqueous vapour , and are exceedingly numerous .
It is probable , therefore , that they are actually small water particles , such as one would expect to come into existence momentarily through encounters of the molecules .
The nuclei which bring about the rain-like condensation are always few in number , and they appear to be entirely absent in hydrogen ; their number , therefore , depends on the nature of the gas .
They are probably , therefore , of a different nature from those which come into play when the supersaturation is great enough to cause the cloud-like condensation .

