]\gt ; [ 213 ] VI .
On a Sphericed Vortex .
M. J. M. HILL , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Professor of at ) ersity C'ollege , London .
by Professor HENRICI , F.R. Received January 19 , \mdash ; Read March 1 , 1894 .
1 .
IN a paper published by the author in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1884 , " " On the Motion of Fluid , part of which is moving rotationally and part irrotationally a certain case of motion , symmetrical with regard to an axis , was noticed ( see pp. 403-405 ) .
Taking the axis of symmetry as axis of , and the distance of any point from it as and allowing for a difference of notation , it was shown that the surfaces constant , where are fxed constants , and any arbitrary function of the time , always contain the same particles of fluid in a possible case of motion .
The surfaces are of invariable form .
If the constant be less than \mdash ; , the surfaces are imaginary ; if the constant lie between \mdash ; and zero they are shaped ; if the constant be zero , the single surface represented breaks up into an evanescent cylinder and an ellipsoid of revolution ; if the constant be positive , the surfaces have the axis of revolution for an asymptote .
The velocity perpendicular to the axis of symmetry is ; the velocity parallel to the axis of symmetry is ; where is a fixed constant and These expressions ( which make the velocity infinitely great at infinity ) calmot apply to possible case of fluid motion extending to infinity .
Hence the fluid moving in the above manner must be limited by a urface of finite dimensions .
This limiting surface must always contain the same particles of fluid .
Where , as in the present case , the surfaces containing same particles of fluid of invariable form , it is possible to imagine the fluid limited by any one of them , provided a frictionless boundary having the shape of the limiting surface be supplied , and the boundary be supposed to move parallel to the axis of with velocity .
Then the above expressions give the velocity components of a possible rotational motion inside the boundary .
So much was pointed out in the paper cited above .
2 .
But a case of much greater interest is obtained when it is possible to limit the fluid moving in the above manner by one of the surfaces containing always the same particles of fluid , and to discover either an irrotational or rotational motion filling all space external to the limiting surface which is continuous with the motion inside it as ards velocity normal to the limiting surface and pressure .
3 .
It is the object of this paper to discuss such a case , the motion found external to the miting surface an motion , and the tangential velocity at the surface , as well as the normal velocity , and the pressure being continuous .
The particular surface ( taining the same particles ) which is selected is obtained by supposmg that the constant vanishes , and also that .
Then this surface breaks up into the evanescent cylinder the sphere molecular rotation is given by , so that the molecular rotation along the axlS vanishes , and therefore the vortex sphere still possesses to some extent the character of a vortex ring .
The irrotational motion outside a sphere moving in a straight line is known , and it is shown this paper it will be continuous with the rotation al motion inside the sphere provided a certain relation be satisfied .
This relation may be expressed thus : The of the spherical vortex is five times the roduct the radi product of the radius of the sphere and the ?
mifo rm velocity with which the vortex here moves its The analytic expression of the same relation is ere moves This maKes .
PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHERICAL VORTEX .
All the particulars of the motion are placed ether in the Table below , in which the notation employed is as follows:\mdash ; If the velocity parallel to the axis of be , and the velocit , y parallel to the axis of be , then the molecular rotation is given by Also is the pressure , the density , and the potential of the impressed forces .
The minimum value of is , where must be determined from the initial conditions .
Further are such that The whole motion depends on the following constants:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The radius of the sphere , ( 2 .
) The uniform velocity with which the vortex sphere moves along its axis , ( 3 .
) The minimum value of 4 .
If be not equal to , then the surface containing the same ticJes , when the constant vanishes , breaks up into an evanescent cylinder and an ellipsoid of revolution .
Now the velocity potential of an lipsoid moving parallel to an axis is known .
This velocity otential , with a suitable relation between and , will make the ormal velocity at the surface of the ellipsoid continuous with the normal velocity of the rotational motion inside the ellipsoid , but it does not make the pressure continuous .
Hence , if fluid can move olltside the ellipsoid continuously with the rotational motion inside ( described in section 1 above ) , then the motion outside the ellipsoid must be a rotational motion .
5 .
It cannot be argued that the application of HELMHOLTZ'S method to determine the whole motion from the distribution of vortices inside the ellipsoid must determine an irrotational motion outside the ellipsoid continuous with the rotational motion inside , because HELMHOLTZ'S method determines the irrotational motion by means of distribution of vortices only when that distribution is throughout space .
This is not the case in the problem under discussion .
For here the rotationally moving liquid has been arbitrarily limited by rejecting all the vortices outside the ellipsoid , and it is not known beforehand that the rejection of these vortices is possible .
6 .
Yet , on account of the interest of the problem , the paper contains a calculation of the velocity components in HELMHOLTZ'S manner , supposing the only vortices to be those inside the ellipsoid , i.e. , starting from the values of the velocity components , , the components of the molecular rotation are first found , Then the potentials of distributions of matter of densities ' respectively throughout the ellipsoid are determined .
PROFEISSOR M. J. , HTLL ON A SPHERICAL VORTEX .
These are , outside the ellipsoid , where is the paralneter of the ellipsoid Then To obtain the corresponding expressions inside the ellipsoid , it is necessary to replace by zero .
Outside the ellipsoid are the differential coefficients of the potential function which , with a suitable value of , gives the potential of the motion outside ellipsoid moving parallel to the axis with velocity But inside the ellipsoid \mdash ; are not respectively equal to the values of , from which the investigation commenced .
In fact where is the potential function .
7 .
The ) \mdash ; , \mdash ; ' \mdash ; cannot be taken by themselves to represent the velocities inside and outside the ellipsoid , for , though they would furnish continuous values of the velocities at the surface of the ellipsoid , they would not make the pressure continuous .
Art .
1 .
The Equations of Motion .
If bhe velocity components of a mass of incompressible fluid at the point be c ) , at time ; if the pressure be , the density , and the potential of the impressed forces V , then the equations of motion are ( I. ) , .
If the motion be symmetrical with regard to the axis of , let , and let the velocity perpendicular to the axis and away from it be Then ( 111 .
) , and the equations of tnotion become , .
PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHElifCAL VORThX .
These are equivalent , on elimination of , to \mdash ; ( VI .
) , ( VI1 .
) .
Art .
2 .
tisfed by the Current From equation ( VII .
) it follows that a function exists , such that ( VIII .
) .
Substituting in ( VI .
) , it follows that .
Hence , the whole motion depends on the current function defined by ( IX .
) .
Art .
3 .
Iniegral selected .
The following is a particular ralo of ( where are constants .
A particular integral of ( X ) is , and are functions of only .
Substituting this value of in ( VIII .
) , .
PROFESSOR M. J. M. IIILL ON A SPHERICAL VORTEX .
which contain the rticles offluid .
ext step is to find the surfaces which contain the same particles of fluid oughou t the motion .
If const .
be family of these surfaces , ( XII .
) .
Therefore ( XIII .
) .
The equations , Henco if , one solution of ( XIII .
) will be .
HenCG tCOlnl)onent velocities , .
to a motion in which the faces fluid hout the motion .
const given } ) contain the same PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHERICAL VORTHiX .
Also by ( XT .
) ( XVII .
) .
Art .
5 .
The Pressur Subsbituting the above values of and in equations ( IV .
) , they become ( XVIII .
) .
Therefore arbitrary function of . . .
( XIX .
) .
Art .
6 .
he Motecular If be the molecular rotation , Therefore .
( XX .
) .
Hence the molecular rotation val.ies as the distance from the axis of symmetry .
The vortex lines are circles , whose centres are on the axis of , and whose planes are perpendicular to it .
Art .
7 .
of the Amongst the surfaces given by making constant in XV .
, there is one , .
:\mdash ; which breaks up into the nescent cylinder . . . . .
( XXI .
) , PRO ESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHhRICAL VORTEX .
and the ellipsoid of reyolution , If , further , it be supposed that , the ellipsoid becomes the sphere . . . . .
( XXII .
) .
The discussion will now be limited to this case .
In it ( XXIII .
) ( XXIV .
) , \mdash ; .
, where is function of ( XXVI .
) .
*The const .
are a particular case of some surfaces were noticed by Professor LAbil : in a paper " " On the Vibrations of an Elastic Sphere published in the ' Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society , ' vol. 1.3 , p. 205 .
In equation 76 of that papel ' where the current ) ction may be written ( ) ( ) If we suppose to be finitc , but , this becomes or , in the notation of this paper , which agr.ees with the above .
PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHERICAL ] Hence , at the surface of the sphere ( XXII .
) , putting ( XXVII .
) , . . . . .
( XXVIII .
) , . . . . .
( XXIX .
) , , Art .
8 .
The Motion outside the Sphere .
The velocity potential of a sphere of ladius , moving with velocity parallel to the axis of , at external points , is ( XXXI .
) , where ( see BASSET'S ' Hydrodynamics , ' vol. I. , Art .
143 ) .
Whence ( XXXII .
) , ( XXXIII .
) , . . . .
( XXXIV .
) , where is an arbitrary function of Hence , at a point on the surface of the sphere ( XXII .
) , .
( XXXV .
) , \mdash ; ( XXXVI .
) , SSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHERICAL VORTEX .
\mdash ; .
( XXXVII .
) .
The value of the current function , corresponding to the velocity potential of ( XXXI .
) is ( XXXVIII .
) .
If const .
be a family of surfaces containing the same particles of fluid ( XXXIX .
) .
An integral of this equation is ( XL .
) , for being constant .
, therefore Hence the surfaces const .
are 1 \mdash ; const .
( XLI .
) .
Art .
9 .
The for of the irrotational motions .
In order that the motion inside the sphere ( XXII .
) may be continuous with that outside , the equations and ( XXXV .
) must make Therefore ( XLII .
) .
The equations ( XXIX .
) and ( XXXVt .
) must make ) PROFESSOR .
J. .
HILL ON A RICAL VORTEX .
221- ) Thi leads again ( XLII .
) .
The equations ( XXX .
) and ( XXXVII .
) must give the same for This requires thab and The first and second of these follow from ( XLII .
) .
The last gives Hence ( XXXIV .
) can be written Therefore ( XLITT .
) .
Hence at the surface of the sphere ( XLTV .
) .
Further , outside the sphere , theretore , 5 \mdash ; 4 therefore , Now using the value from ( XLII .
) , putting , equations ( XXIII .
) ] give inside the sphere PROFESSOR 11 .
J. M. HILL ON A SPHEiRICAL VORTEX .
( XLVI .
) .
Also from ( XXVT .
) ( XLVII .
) .
and . . . . .
( XLVTTI. .
) .
Also from ( XXTV .
) ( XLIX ) .
It be noted that the value of give by ( XLVI .
) is least when is least , and is greatest , i.e. , when , and then Hence minimum value of throughout the whole mass of moving fluid .
Further , ] points on the circle represent the surface ; for this surface is , ?
A neighbouring surface is yhere is small .
Putting and retainin only principal terms , it becomes proving that the section by a plane through the axis of is an infinitely small ellipse , with its major axis double the lninor axis , the minor axis being perpendicular to the direction in which the vortex sphere moves .
SSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A VORTLX .
Art .
10 .
The Cyclic Constant of The cyclic constant of the vortex is . . . . .
( L. ) Hence the cyclic constant of the vortex sphere is equal to times the tdius of the sphere lnultiplied by the ocity with which the yortex ) moves to its axis .
Art .
11 .
the ' The kinetic energy of the yortex ?
The kinetic enel.gy of the irrotational tion outside vortex PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHERICAL VORTEX .
Art .
Distributio ' of which produce the Ve locity of the The at points outside the sphere is due to a tion of tter inside the sphere of density . . . . . .
( LI .
) , the potential uf this distribution of nnatter inside the sphere is ( LII .
) . .
( LIII .
) .
there , when and .
( Lie .
) Also when M. J. M. HILL ON A RICAL V The equations ( LIV .
) show thab bhe potential function in ( LII .
) is continuous with the velocity potential of ( XXXI .
) at the surface of the sphere .
The equations ( LV .
) and ( LVI .
) show that the differential coefficients are also colltinuous .
Finally ( LIII .
) shows that the density of the distrioution of matter is that given in ( LI .
) ression the yelocity Components the CLEBSCH'S Form .
BSCH has proved that the velocity components can be essed as ( LIX .
) ( LVII .
) ( LVIII .
) be taken as .
( equation XLVIII .
) To find , there are the equations Therefore ( LXIII .
) One integral ( LXIII .
) is constant , LXlV .
, where L is some ) stant .
From ( LXI ) it follows that \mdash ; \mdash ; . . . . .
in ( LXVI .
) Therefore constant ( LXVII .
) .
Hence ( LXVIII .
) , aiter integration performed , must replaced ) .
, it is necessary to substitute in the equation ( LXIX .
) , i. e. , herefore Therefore Hence ( LXX .
) .
Hence ( LXXI .
) .
, ( LXXII .
) PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHERICAL - ( LXXIII .
) , ( LXXTV .
) Next , can be found by means of ( LXI .
) \mdash ; therefore \mdash ; ( LXXV .
) Next taking as the potential of the distribution of matter inside the sphere which would produce the potential of the irrotational motion outside the sphere 2:32 N. J. ON A SPHERICAL equation ( LI1 .
) , therefore XXVI .
, \mdash ; LXXVII .
, ( LXXVIII .
) .
Hence ( LXXIX .
) , ( LXXX .
) , LXXXI .
) , therefore ( LXXXII .
) , ( LXXXIII .
) , ( LXXXIV .
) .
PROFESSOR M. J. M. ON A SPHERICAL VORTEX .
( LXXXIII .
) and ( LXXXIV .
) it follows that Hence is a function of and only , therefore ( LXXXV .
) .
Before proceeding further it is necessary to prove that ( LXXXVI ) .
Differentiating sides with regard to , an identity is obtained .
Hence the result holds .
Making use of ( LXXXVI .
) in ( LXXXII .
) , and remembering that after the integrations in ( LXXXVI .
) are effected , may be replaced by , . . .
( LXXXVIT .
) . .
( LXXXVIII .
) .
by ( LXXXVII .
) and ( LXXXVIII .
) const .
Therefore const .
( LXXXIX .
) , where , after the integration has been performed , must be replaced by .
Art .
14 .
The Figure .
The figure has been constructed from the two following tables .
Table I. giyes the form of the surfaces which are inside sphere , and which always contain the same particles of fluid throughout the motion .
the time taken by the pal'bicles on one of these surfaces to go once completely round , see the Notc at the end of the paper .
PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A RICAL VORTEX .
When , the section of the surface , by a plane through the axis , shrinks into a point ellipse whose major axis , which is parallel to the axis of , is double of its miner axis .
As diminishes from to , the surfaces increase in size until finally they become merged in the sphere , and the evanescent cylinder Table II .
gives the form of the surfaces which are outside the sphere , and which always contain the same particles of fluid throughout the motion .
When , the surface merges in evanescent cylinder , the sphere , and the imaginary locus As increases from to , the surfaces tend to become cylinders .
It may be noticed that the surface has the asymptoLic cylinder The distance of this surface from the axis is found by putting and , therefore , .
Hence , the greatest distance is a root of the equation When root of this equation .
SSOR l J. M. HILL ON A SPHERICAL VORTEX .
nearly This result shows how rapidly the disturbance due to the passage of the vortex sphere dies away as the distance from the axis increases .
ABLE I.\mdash ; Table for culating the surfaces of revolution 71 63 .
46 .
42 30 4 5 38 55 .58 .
.22 .
7 8 .
8 9:3 .\mdash ; Table the surfaces of reyolution , 1 9 8 , 1 9 .74 1 40 77 1.04 7 6 5 4 36 34 33 32 .7 6 55 94 co 1 .
1 , 1.ub PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHERICAL of the case where the is limited by the ellipsoid of ) olution In this AIso ' arbitrary function of Now the velocity potential due to the motion of the ellipsoid , moving with velocity parallel to the axis of is , where ' and the of the confocal ellipsoid through the 'Hydrodynamics , ' vol. I. , Art .
Then if be the perpendicular from the centre of the ellipsoid on to a tang.ent plane , the velocity components at the surJ are\mdash ; The normal velocity at the surface is therefore , and as is equal to the same expression , it is obvious that the normal velocity is continuous at the surface of the ellipsoid .
But is not continuous .
For arbitrary function of and since ( taking constant ) , and since , in this case , bitrary function of Therefore arbitrary function of But therefore arbitrary function of This value of is not continuous with the value of inside the ellipsoid .
Further , on returning to rectangular axes in three dimensions , , , Hence , if be the components of the molecular rotation , SSOR .
M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHEHICAL Now , method gives the following values for as deduced from where and , are the potentials of respectively , taken throughout the rotationally moving fluid .
Hence , if the rotationally moying fluid be limited to the ellipsoid of revolution above , the values of may be worked out completely .
For it is known that a solid ellipsoid of density , , gives for potential outside the ellipsoid , where is the positive value of satisfying Inside the ellipsoid the potential has the same value if the lower limit of the integral , , be replaced by zero .
( See a paper , by Mr. DYSON , " " On the Potentials of Ellipsoids in the ' Quarterly Journal of Mathematics , ' vol. 25 , 1891 .
Hence , outside the ellipsoid , HellCe , The values inside the ellipsoid are obtained by replacing by zero .
tsid the ellipsoid the expressions where may be immediately verified by differentiation .
is obviously a potential function , , it is what becomes when Moleovel , if be suitably determined , it is the velocity potential for the fluid outside the ellipsoid moving with velocity parallel to the axis of .
( See BASSET'S ' ' nics , \ldquo ; vol. I. , Art .
147 .
) Inside the ellipsoid the values of , \amp ; c. , can be deduced by putting , and it appears that they do not give the original expressions for Hence in this case the function exists .
It is such that PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A SPHECRICAL so that Hence , and is a potential function , for it satisfies It appears , then , that on to the values of the veloci tie ' pollents from the molecular rotations by me ns of , it is to introduce the function P. This points to the of lotati notio outside ellipsoid ( was reviously remarked ) , being the potential of the motion inside the ellipsoid due to the vortices outside the ellipsoid .
If be left out of account altogether , and an attempt be to see whethel the velocity components , which give tinuous velocity at the surface of the ellipsoid , will llob also give continuous pressul .
G ; then inside the ellipsoid .
or putting , ' leIl , .
2 I J. .
HILL ON A SPHh R VORTEX .
Hen the become , .
Therefore / arbitrary function uf This value 01 is nob continuous vilh the value of the outside the ellipsoid .
A. ciby p to of ( XLV Velocity llel tu XLVI . .
Current Functiun \mdash ; . . . . . . . . .
( XLVII .
) .
ining the of fluid const .
( XLVIII .
) .
Molecular liotation . . . . . . . . . . .
( XLIX .
) .
Cyclic of Vortex . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( L. ) .
PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON A RICAL VORTEX .
B. On the of 'Sphere .
Velocity parallel to of . . . . . .
( XXXV .
) .
city parallel to axis ( XXXVI .
) .
( XLI ) C. the Velocity parallel to axis of .
( XXXII .
) .
Velocity to axis . . .
( XXXI ) . .
( XLTTT .
) .
Current Function . . . . . .
( XXXVIIT .
) .
faces c the same particles of fluid const . . . . . . .
Velocity potential ) . . . . . . . . . .
( XXXI .
) , SUPPLEMENTARY EMARKS .
The velocity potential outside the sphere is the same as that which would be produced by the distribution throughout the sphere of matter of density .
The potentia ] of this distribution inside the sphere is ( LTI .
) .
PROli SSOR M. .T .
M. , ON A VORTEX .
this ) otentialU , land ) .
the velocity components in CI , EBSCH'S wh A . . . . . . . . .
( XLVITI ( LXX .
) , const .
XXXIX .
, here L is to replaced by after the integration ) regard to have NOTR ADDED The time tnken by particles on the surface to revolve once completely round is or putting it PROFESSOR M. .T .
M. HILL ON A RlCAL VORTEX .
The extreme limits of corresponding to inside the vorbex and , and as diminishes from to increases Putting Since , every element of the integral is positive .
Hence is positive ; and , herefore , as increases to 1 , increases from to Hence as diminishes from to , the t , ime of revolution increases from to The fact , that when , the time is infinitely great , may be verified by finding the time along the axis of the vortex sphere from end end , the time along meridian from one end of the axis to the other .
These ' and both of which are infinitely great .
This result does not constitute difficulty , for if a particle ( rlllywhere on the axis of the sphere could reach the extremity then it wonId not be meridian of the sphere it should subsequently move .
If again the on of the sphere could reach the , extremity of the axis , would extremity ) a collision of the particles coming in all possible

