]\gt ; Seleno-Alu ?
7oi ?
tium ridqes .
By Professor , F.R.S. ( Received Apri128 , \mdash ; Read A nninium bridge consists of a very thin and narrow er selenium connecting two surfaces of aluminium which are separated modification which conducts a current , the space of mica insulation is bridged over by a conductor , and the current of the passes .
This bridge will have a certain conductivit ) in the dark , and that conductivity , as we shall see , will depend on the voltage of the battery F. If even the feeble light of a distant candle\mdash ; is allowed to fall on the face of the bridge , the is very much increased , and the alvanometer will show a much increased current .
The has no definite resistance ( or conductivity ) because it is ferent for different voltages of the applied battery , and , of course , much depends on extent of the surface of the mica separator ; but , roughly speaking , it vsill be in the hbourhood of 40 or 50 megohms if the length of the plates i , s a centimetre and the thickness of the mica about mm. The alvanometer G should be a sensitive D'Arsonval dead-beat one .
The circular form is made by a cylindrical hole through a thick inium , placing in this hole a -fitting thin glass tube , and into this glass tube a -fitting rod vire of aluminium .
The surfaces aluminium tnbe , bolass tube , and aluminium wire are worked quite planc : and selenium is then ( as above ) smeared over them so as to across lass separator .
Thus the outer aluminium tube and the inner rod or wire take the places of the two plates in the above .
If the diameter of tube is about mm. , the of a star Prof G. M. Minchin .
[ Apr. 28 , ( the little ring , or , of , and the of the the conductivity of th and deflection on the scale .
If linear is used , place thin of ) in at ) of the of the of valious or A.s in tho , one ) of is } with the galvanolt ) \ldquo ; while the ] connected , lespectively , either with ] ) the ueter and battery ) and It is thnb ] urrent lways passcs the in the bense in which it sses through the can we answe1 the question : of the ( or the deflection on the intensity the lour of the incident ?
mnst lind I he : of rent v , in the ) esnll s lItected the with ( b ) 10 , ttIl ( followi]l( ) are the ) } ) indicated 1 , , ) of currents a considerable .
to an d , ijties the ] ) : ] , 36 , 4 ) I ' ) , , , ( ( -/ l a tlon of The ving conductivities ) ) The curve at lcft of } uced , is in th dark , I , I acccl ) a il the coil e ( 1 ) tivit .
is ( ) ( ( 11 ) parabola is ( .
of voltage .
/ Seleno-A To determine the law of variation of current with the intensity of light , I used the spectrum of a Nernst lamp , cing the bridge at uces 6 , 4 , 3 , 2 , metres from the source , the being slid up the inside of a very thick cylinder of cardboard blackened on the inside ; but this was not found to be a very convenient yement , so I finaJly confine ed the observations to two coloured \mdash ; one a pure red , and the other a very pure blue .
These were produced by passing the light of the Nernst lamp solutions of fuchsine in water and sulphate of copper in ammonia .
If is the resistance of the bridge in the dark for iven voltage , and .
Io its resistance when of intensity falls on it , fraction ) gests itself as a quantity whose connection with migtt be ined ; is no very ) function of which measures this .
After lnany ials , I found the following to be a relation is fairly accurate :\mdash ; Let bc the intensity of light of a oiven , which lCers the current into , and the intensity of the same , which into ; then , ( .3 ) Prof G. It does ot matter ] voltage ) tfi auxiliary ) is , ratio ctically th .
Of .
the to ' to , of is oduced b the of the filled with that tl I liquid : .
) Chenc it , each 1 lnet in -erc ' kened ( end to .
in in placed } , of ened f .
The from the in out 14 the of cssi tube , , 1- , table ti Cained listarlces for ) ] } the having a ) , and with the second 1:\mdash ; 6.11 .
4.14 .
3.11 .
red .
1 . .
1 1 8 ying cqnation to led at hincc the intensities are nilarly for find blue ] values The for the 1908 .
] Br dges .
1:3 The figure shows two curv es whose ordinates are the of for the red and blue , the } ) the intensities of the The larger voltage of the auxiliary battery 1 the larger will be the values of ; but the value of for intensity and colour is found to bc the The red belonged to that part of the spectrunl in the neighbourhood of the ray , and the blue to the portion about ' and If we take the ratio of the wave-lengths these parts of spectnun as equal to 64 : 41 and compare this with the ratio of the in equation ( 3 ) for the blue to the value of for the red\mdash ; namely 36 : 26\mdash ; we find the two ratios not very different .
This that is inversely proportional to the , and that equation ( 3 ) ulay be written in the form , ( 4 ) where is a constant on the selenium employed .
In constructing these bridges I have found it desirable to coat the seleniul layer with a very thin layer of melted paraffin .
A small piece of paraffin laid on the face of the it is yet hot is spread over the selenium with a hot glass rod .
This paraffin vives t surface of the layer of selenium a blackish appearance , but does not in the least diminish its sensitiveness to light .
It is just possible that it rather increases the sensitiveness .
At any rate , it protects the selenium from action of vapour in the air , and it seems to facilitate the return of the bridge to its natural state when the is withdrawn .
I must now mention a very peculiarity of the bridge , of which Prof G. M. Minchin .
I no explanation .
It is that after exposu ] to trarcrsi / it ? .
The to currents fiowing through ) ( in opposite dircctions ) UIld to nlOtlu to more per a voltage of 6 .
to nply a force ) ] is with , so that the bridge ) " " cell ) nol it but this is not so : when we for a ) ( by cutting off the baltery ) , no deflection Also , the ) } ) its state ( of the spot on tho scale to I ) is very much acceler ( by the cnrlent then the of the acts hich1 ) } uf to a ctllrent not indcpeIl ( Lcnt of )( .
' .
battery oyed , an( that its is not ' it in opposite no to I the1n in the of ex ont to ] that both facts were ) ) ) ium cells\ldquo ; ) ) is ( 1 ' for , ou I have found ior ) thin plate of crysta1 , ) ) ) tinum w into it niniun and seLnium ( clls ( in hich { is I ( I itivcness found that -hcn plate , as in , tl rhc allowed to flow the } .
is ecisely t reverse of what 1 tu actio !
} at odes .
to more han 15 1 ivel ) in quation ( I of Another differcn ) of 10 second , , fouud the of ) roduced by " " ies exactly as of ] For a time 1 1908 .
] Bridges .
5 intensity was nearest to the truth ; but I found no such law agreed tisfactorily with experience .
If is the amount by which a resistance ( in the dark ) is diminished by ) of a given culour and intensity equation ( 3 ) above gives , ( 5 ) .
is a constant , and is a nuulber the colour of the This does not ortional to If , is comparatiyely feeble , and therefore small compared with , this ( proportional to .
and since is not very differcnt from ) 4 ] for resistance roughly roportiona l to the fourth of the intensity .
A peculiarity of nnst be mentioned : after bridge been in use for a con siderable ( perhaps some months ) its resistance for ] is extrelnely unstendy .
Thus , which had been much used had a perfectly ] ) aviour v ith volts , but with 6 volts the } on the scale nloved with great suddenne , distances , the being all the in the dar The A very tant relates to the time-cn , the whose ordinates represent the values of } current at different the exposure to light , the abscissae being the times .
The typical Jures represent a -current curve for } and one for blue .
The obseryations of the deflections on the scale made at intervals of secouds , and the values of the time , , as multiples of this interval , are set off along the axis OT , while the values of the current are measured OY .
The points .
represent the observations with , the voltage of the auxiliary battery , and the distance of the adiant point of the of the Nernst lamp from the metres ( called metres in the diagram ) .
The curve .
similarly the results with blue light .
Two different used in these observations , and OA represents , the current in the , in the first case , while OA ' represents the in the second case .
If the two employed had been the same , the points A wonld the same ; but they are sufficiently close to show the difference betwee ] ] the curves .
With red light at such a small distance as 2 metres rise of current at the instant of exposure of the bridge to the light is so rapid that no trustlb Prof G. M. [ Apr. 28 , vorthy observation of deflection the 1)'Arsonval galvanometer , which is to ' : be ) : the needle is too ) idly on the 1nove , an( if its otoCyrnphed , we could scarcely infer the inertia .
Hencc the osition of ) dino the end of the first seconds , unt ] the val of , the following were the :\mdash ; ( p ) haclions of sions 1 1908 .
] Seleno-Aluminium Bridges .
For the blue the corresponding table is\mdash ; ( ) Both the voltage and the distance of the light from the bridge were varied in other experiments .
In the absence of a of the physical cause of the action of light selel ) , it is allowable to make a hypothesis which will accord with these observations and the curves them ; and I therefore make the plausible assmnption:\mdash ; If is the current-strength at any time after exposure , and the final value attained by C\mdash ; represented by the of the line LM in for red time-rate of increase of , viz. , , should be to , or to some powel of ; that is , we assunle that , ( 6 ) which gives where we use for and for .
The quantities to be determined ) this equa , tion are , and ; and they can be theoretically found from simultaneous values of and To see how such an equation satisfies the results , take the table ( ) ; discard the reading for , since it is to be stworthv , and and , i.e. , the values of Ccorresponding to and , at the sane lime knowledge that .
We have then the equations , ( 8 ) , ( 9 ) which for the equation Of course , 0lle value of is point to which we sfiall reyert presently ; but there is another , and it is at once located betweell and 1 with no trouble ; and then by trial we find that oivino , will exactly satisfy the equations ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) .
Assunning values , ( 7 ) becomes , ( 11 ) where .
If by means of this we cnlculate the values of we find , while the observed values are 130 , , 151 ; VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. Prof G. M. Minchin .
[ Apr. 28 , and these confirnl statement first observation untrustworthy .
the table in the same , the solved are\mdash ; ve from we find where .
If calculate ) of find hile the observed value ) .
This result is to be expected , because with the scale is slow enou , to allow of ( the of the first 15 seconds .
The by equation ( 7 ) in an sylnptote parallel to at a ) the left ; and if this tote and LM , the of the cve is the and ( 12 ) , ) red nd ) in cruIe , the distances of the second ] } , respectively .
The importance of a of the curl t is } in connection with the measul.emenC of ' slarli with ] ) if we know the natule of cve , the final to a can be inferred or ithout the ssity f\ldquo ; , it current atlains its ; in case ) cilll be vely short .
) } ?
and three equations 01 folll ely .
That of / / , distinct ) 1 the follns(( and ( 9 ) can always bc ) Suppose is equal H-C ; is , of CUlll.he , is some value of JtUht , because positive 1908 .
] Seteno-A Bridges .
values of , so that the multiplier of in this expression is less than that of , while , and the ratio of ) second coefficient to the first increases indefinitely with The values of the constants and depend in some unkno way on the and on the intensity of the light .
When is folUld , the intensity of light is known from equation ( 3 ) into which is to be put for being the intensity of some standard light which produces a finai current in the Adams and Day found that " " the effect was greatest in the greenish yellow and in the red of the solar spectrum , the violet and ultra-red rays producing very little , if any , \ldquo ; My observations with a minium bridge are not in complete agreement with this .
Passing the of a lamp a quartz lens , in the focus of which the face of the mp was placed , the parallel beam on a quartz prism , and finally focussing .
by means of another quartz lens , the various parts of the spectrum on the end of the cardboard cylinder employed in these , I examined the effects produced by the rays in , and both extreluities of , the spectrum .
The end of the cardboard ) on which the spectrum was focussed was closed by a cap in which a slit could be opened ; the selenium bridge was placed at the middle of the other end of the tube , 6 metres distant from the slit , and a battery of 2 volts ws.s used .
I found a very marked effect produced by rays a way below the red , and a considerable effect produced by the violet .
The following figure represents roughly the results obtained : ' ' The visible spectl.um of the lamp is represented in lengCh ) ) its coloured by letters yellow a very band , not very well marked , and the violct was marked beyond the blue .
The ordinates represent the values is resistance of the bridge in the dark and the of resistanc otluced the radiation by axillUll i in .
red , and it amounted to .
The ( to the of the diagram : counting tuwards ) sent talueb It appears from this that there is very } produced by infra-red radiation .
purpose for which infinitely ) of elenium was constructed to 1neasure tl in various psrts of the spectrum of a star that of a standard light of the same colo , or the ] in part of the spectrum of another star .
From the esults obtained red ( it there is little use in a selellium ) of a or a planet , as has ) hitherto ; for the tiHerentv coloured lights follow ) nsity .
Hence it scems the proper of the , and to expose th to .nl ] ectrum .
propose to lorCly , on of I .
A. 1adcliffe .
The detailed in this ) .
made still in process ) at ical ) preliminary to the stellar } should know how to co1lnecl the ) ) } intensity of the ) it , components of a Comp ) ' ) } At important ) is liq ) ) nature of the tinlc-current curve .
The inents ( Adatls } of selenium , so that a part of the ) ) ) ) ) the rest in the dark ; of ) effects is no $tt It uced in a tdicC their ob .
tho } it lllust , it is iltt ( th selenoiulll l se , On the Theory of Capillarity .
ago .
The latter are true " " cells containing a liquid and two metallic surfaces , and they generate a voltage by exposure to : the former are sistances simply ; but they will prove much more Conyenien because they are used with a galvanometer instead of an electrometer .
On the Theory of pillar i By E. T. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received Read AlIay 2 S1 .
The fundamental quantities in the theory of capillary phenomena ars the ( which we shall suppose expressed in dynes per centimetre ) , and the -energy ( which we shall suppose expressed in ergs per square centimetre ) .
The relation between these two quantities is at once given by the thermodynamic equation connecting available with total energy : it is therefore , ( 1 ) where denotes absolute temperature .
This equation implies that when the area of a surface of separation is increased by 1 cm.2 at temperature , the external encies do work amounting to ergs against the surface-tension : and this be the with a further contribution of ergs which is )ropriated from the heat-energy of neighbouring bodies , becomes resident in the filn ] , giving rise to an increase of ergs in its internal energy .
The relation between the surface-tension and is , of course , exactly the same as the relation between the electromotive force of a voltaic cell and the energy of the reactions which occur in the cell .
S 2 .
As in the comparative theory of chemical substances tlJe heat evolved a reaction is a more fundamental quantity than the E.M.F. of a cell which can be ased on the reaction , so in molecular theory the intel'nal energy of a of separation is a more fundamental quantity than the surfacetension to which it gives rise ; and it erefore becomes of to study the ) quantity Now the value of the surface-tension has been experimentally determined for several liquids over wide ranges of temperature by and Shields ; * from their results it is possible by the equation ( 1 ) ) to 'Phil .
, vol. 184 , 1893 , p. 647 .

