On the Compressibility of Water .
By Jacob Perkins , Esq. Communicated by the late Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read June 29 , 1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 324 .
] A hollow and water-tight cylinder , 3 inches in diameter and 18 inches long , with a red five sixteenths of an inch diameter , sliding through a stuffing box at one of its extremities , and having upon it a flexible ring , placed just above the stuffing box , was filled with water , and put into a cannon of sufficient dimensions , fixed vertically in the earth , with its touch-hole plugged , and its muzzle about 18 inches above ground .
A strong cap was firmnly secured upon the mouth of the cannon , with a small forcing pump tightly screwed into its centre .
There was an aperture secured by a valve , one pound pressure upon which indicated an atmosphere .
Upon forcing water into the cannon it was found that when the instrument contained within it , called by the author a Piezometer , had suffered a pressure equal to a hundred atmospheres , the position of the ring upon the piston indicated that it had been forced into the cylinder to a depth of eight inches , showing that the water had suffered a compression of about 1 per cent. ; the same effect was produced by sinking the piezometer to a depth of 500 fathoms in the ocean .
Upon sinking a strong empty bottle , well corked and tied down , to a depth of 300 fathoms , the neck only was found remaining upon the line ; from the appearance of which it was evident , that a quantity of water , sufficient to fill the bottle , had at that depth been forced through the cork and its coverings , and that the water expanding during the drawing up of the bottle had broken it .
It appearing to the author that the original indication of the piezometer was rendered erroneous by the collapsing of the leather upon the rod under such great pressure , he employed a modification of the instruienit , in which a valve wa§§ used as a substitute for the piston , the cylinder being flattened so as to yield to the expansion of the water forced in .
By weighing this instrument full of water , before and after it had been submitted to the pressure , the quantity of water ; forced in was ascertained ; whence it appeared that under a pressure of 326 atmospheres , the water had sustained an increase of 39 per cent. In a future communication the author proposes to detail the results of a new set of experiments on the compressibility of water , which he hopes will be susceptible of greater precision .

