II .
" On the Conversion of Dynamical into Electrical Force without the aid of Permanent Magnetism .
" B3y C. W. SIEMENS , F.R.S. Received February 4 , 1867 .
Since the great discovery of magnetic electricity by Faraday in 1830 , electricians have had recourse to mechanical force for the production of their most powerful effects ; but the power of the magneto-electrical machine seems to depend in an equal measure upon theforce expended on the one hand , and upon permanent magnetism on the other .
An experiment , however , has been lately suggested to me by my brother , Dr. Werner Siemens of Berlin , which proves that permanent magnetism is not requisite in order to convert mechanical into electrical force ; and the result obtained by this experiment is remarkable , not only because it demonstrates this hitherto unrecognized fact , but also because it provides a simple means of producing very powerful electrical effects .
The apparatus employed in this experiment is an electro-magnetic machine consisting of one or more horseshoes of soft iron surrounded with insulated wire in the usual manner , of a rotating keeper of soft iron surrounded also with an insulated wire , and of a commutator connecting the respective coils in the manner of a magneto-electrical machine .
If a galvanic battery were connected with this arrangement , rotation of the keeper in a given direction would ensue .
If the battery were excluded from the circuit and rotation imparted to the keeper in the opposite direction to that resulting from the galvanic current , there would be no electrical effect produced , supposing the electro-magnets were absolutely free of magnetism ; but by inserting a battery of a single cell in the circuit , a certain magnetic condition would be set up , causing similar electro-magnetic poles to be forcibly approached to each other , and dissimilar poles to be forcibly severed , alternately , the rotation being contrary in direction to that which would be produced by the exciting current .
Each forcible approach of similar poles must augment the magnetic tension and increase consequently the power of the circulating current ; the resistance of the keeper to the rotation must also increase at every step until it reaches a maximum , imposed by the available force and the conductivity of the wires employed .
The cooperation of the battery is only necessary for a moment of time after the rotation has commenced , in order to introduce the magnetic action , which will thereupon continue to accumulate without its aid .
With the rotation the current ceases ; and if , upon restarting the machine , the battery is connected with the circuit for a moment of time with its poles reversed , then the direction of the continuous current produced by the machine will also be the reverse of what it was before .
Instead of employing a battery to commence the accumulative action of the machine , it suffices to touch the soft iron bars employed with a permanent magnet , or to dip the former into a position parallel to the magnetic axis of the earth , in order to produce the same phenomenon as before .
Practically it is not even necessary to give any external impulse upon restarting the machine , the residuary magnetism of the electro-magnetic arrangements employed being found sufficient for that purpose .
The mechanical arrangement best suited for the production of these currents is that originally proposed by Dr. Werner Siemens in 1857* consisting of a cylindrical keeper hollowed at two sides for the reception of insulated wire wound longitudinally , which is made to rotate between the poles of a series of permanent magnets , which latter are at present replaced by electro-magnets .
On imparting rotation to the armature of such an arrangement , the mechanical resistance is found to increase rapidly , to such an extent that either the driving-strap commences to slip or the insulated wires constituting the coils are heated to the extent of igniting their insulating silk covering .
It is thus possible to produce mechanically the most powerful electrical or calorific effects without the aid of steel magnets , which latter are open to the practical objection of losing their permanent magnetism in use .

