506 Mr. W. H. Preece .
Conversion of [ Mar. 10 , , upon them by twos and threes , and summits consisting of a refracting spherule .
This very difficult observation appears to open a new field of research .
The object upon which these beaded villi were first detected is the scale of the Vanessa Atalanta , or Red Admiral .
March 10 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Conversion of Radiant Energy into Sonorous Vibrations .
" By William Henry Preece .
Communicated by the President .
Received February 21 , 1881 .
Messrs. Graham Bell and Sumner Tainter* have shown that , under certain conditions , intense rays of light , if allowed to fall with periodic intermittence upon thin disks of almost every hard substance , will set up disturbances in those disks corresponding to this periodicity which result in sonorous vibrations .
Mr. Bell has subsequently shown that such effects are not confined to hard substances , but that they can be produced by matter in a liquid form .
These discoveries have elicited a considerable amount of interest , and have led to the inquiry whether the sonorous effects are due , as the discoverers themselves surmised , to light , or as the President of the Royal Society , Professor Tyndall , and others have suggested to radiant heat .
Messrs. Bell and Tainter have partially answered this question by showing that the disturbances are not necessarily due to light , for they found that sheets of hard rubber or ebonite\#151 ; a substance opaque to light\#151 ; do not entirely cut off the sounds , but allow certain rays to pass through , which continue the effect .
M. Mercadier , who has studied the subject with great care , f has shown that the effects are confined to the red and ultra-red rays .
Moreover , Professor Tyndall has shownJ that gases , such as sulphuric ether , which he had proved to be highly absorbent of heat rays , while they are transparent to * American Association for the Advancement of Science .
Boston , August 1880 .
t " Comptes Rendus , " tome 91 , p. 929 .
J " Journal of the Society of Telegraph Engineers , " vol. 9 , p. 404 .
1881 .
] Radiant Energy into Sonorous .
507 light rays , are remarkably sensitive to this intermittent action .
Dr. Tyndall has more recently read a paper before the Society* proving that these sonorous effects are a function of all gases and vapours absorbing radiant heat , and that the intensity of the sounds produced is a measure of this absorption .
The negative proof of Messrs. Bell and Tainter can be rendered positive if it can be shown that ebonite is .
The author provided himself with several sheets of different substances , and a sensitive radiometer .
A standard candle and a lime-light were used as sources of energy , the former fixed four inches and the latter four feet from the radiometer , which was carefully screened from all disturbing influences but that of the source .
The number of revolu tions made by the radiometer per minute was counted , first without any screen , and then with each sheet successively interposed ; and the average of several observations was taken .
The following is the result , and the numbers indicate the relative diathermancy of the substances used to the source of light used :\#151 ; 1 .
Experiments on Diathermancy .
Material .
Source of radiant energy .
Candle , 4 inches .
Lime-light , 4 feet .
Air . . .
100 100 Ebonite , No. 1 ( '4 millim. ) ... .
60 91 " " 2 ( '9 millim. ) ... .
24 -3 79 3 3 . . . .
24 3 79 -3 yy yy w 4 ... .
24 -3 68-2 yy yy ** 5 .
... .
24-3 68-2 yy yy ' yy v ' " " 6 ( '4 millim. ) ... .
0 9 India-rubber ( native ) 44-3 61 4 " ( prepared ) 60 54*5 * " ( vulcanized ) 0 0 " ( and ozokerit ) . . . .
0 6 '8 Ozokerit ( *5 millim. ) 0 '14 9 Carbon ( 2 millims. ) 0 Carbonised paper 0 A .
Of Blue foolscap 0 4 5 White note paper 0 4 *5 Thin foreign 0 Tissue 0 '6 Ebonite was , however , proved ' to be very variable , and while some pieces proved to be as diathermanous as rocksalt , others of the same thickness were found to be quite athermanous .
Ebonite therefore , being sometimes diathermanous and opaque , it is clear that the sonorous vibrations of Bell and Tainter are the result of * Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 31 , p. 307 .
Mr. W. H. Preece .
On Conversion of [ Mar. 1\lt ; ) disturbances produced by some thermic action rather than by any luminous effect .
Several other experiments made by them confirm this conclusion , notably those made upon crystals of sulphate of copper a substance which Mr. Crookes has shown to be highly opaque to rays of low refrangibility.* ^ Wow , the questions arise , is this thermic action expansion and contraction of the mass due to its absorption of heat ?
Or is it a disturbance due to molecular pressure similar to that which produces the rotation of the radiometer ?
Or is it due to some other cause P The argument against the first assumption when applied to hard disks , is that time is a material element in such actions , and that the rate of cooling of warmed diaphragms is too slow to admit of such effects .
Lord Rayleighf has questioned the validity of this argument and has shown that if the radiating power of the body experimented on were sufficiently high a slow rate of cooling would be favourable to rapid fluctuations of temperature .
It became desirable to test this point experimentally .
The following apparatus was constructed for the purpose .
AB is a thin strip or wire 6 centims. in length of the substance to be examined , fixed to a platinum " make and break " M , and adjusted to a lever S , round whose axis is fastened a silk thread , the end of which is attached to the strip or wire at A , and whose position could be adjusted by a screw C. Any variation of tension due to expansion or contraction of the wire would produce intermission in the electric currents passing through the telephone T , which if periodically produced would result in sonorous vibrations in the telephone .
Heat from various sources and at various distances from bright lime-light to dull heat from hot metallic surfaces , was allowed to fall through rotating vanes intermittently on AB ; but notwithstanding every precaution , and the many materials used , not more than six interruptions per second could be produced , although the system was beautifully sensitive to the smallest changes of temperature .
* " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 169 , S 268 .
f " Nature , " January 20 , 1881 .
1881 .
] Radiant Energy into Sonorous Vibrations .
509 The best effect was obtained when AB was a thin ebonite wire about " 5 millim. in diameter , and 6 centims. in length .
It was evident from these experiments that the sonorous effects of hard disks could not be explained by the change of volume due to the impact of heat rays , and their absorption by the mass of the disk.* Is the action then due to molecular pressure similar to that which produces the rotation of the radiometer ?
It is quite true that the radiometer effect is one visible only in very high exhaustions , but Mr. Crookes ( " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 169 , S 220 ) detected " the existence of molecular pressure when radiation falls on a black surface in air of normal density .
" Whenever radiant energy falls on an absorbent surface in air , such as a disk of blackened wood , its wave-length is degraded or lowered , and it is converted in thermometric heat .
The molecules of air striking this warmed surface acquire heat , and move away from it with increased velocity , and as action and reaction are always alike in moving away , they give the body a " kick .
" Since there is no such action on the other side of the disk , there is a difference of pressure between the two sides , which gives it a tendency to move away from the source of energy .
The effect is very much smaller in air .
at .ordinary pressures than in air at a very low vacuum , because in the former case , the mean free path of the molecules is very small , and the rebounding molecules help to keep back the more slowly approaching molecules .
Nevertheless , molecular pressure is experienced , and if of sufficient magnitude and rapidity , it ought to produce sonorous vibrations .
It seemed probable that the element of time does not enter here so prominently as in the previous case , for the radiometer effect is a mere surface action of the disk , and not one affecting its mass .
Hence it was hoped that the retarding effects would be eliminated .
If the sonorous action , therefore , be due to a radiometer action , a difference of effect would be observed if the side * This conclusion was confirmed by subsequent experiments , notably by Experiments 7 and 41 .
Mr. W. H. Preece .
On the Conversion of [ Mar. 10 , of a disk exposed to the source of energy , he either blackened by lampblack or camphor carbon , or if it be polished or whitened .
An apparatus was constructed similar in principle to that described by Messrs. Bell and Tainter .
The source of light ( L ) was an oxy-hydrogen lime-light .
The rotating disk ( R ) was of zinc perforated with holes , which could be noiselessly rotated , so as to obtain 1,000 intermissions per second .
Glass lenses ( G ) were employed to focus the light upon the perforations of the rotating disk , and another ( G ' ) , to render the rays parallel on the other side of the disk .
A mahogany case or cup ( C ) to retain the disks to be experimented upon was constructed as shown in section in fig. 3 , and fixed 400 centims^ from the source L ; a , being the disk 5 centims. in diameter , clamped on by screws ; b , a brass tube , to which the india-rubber hearing tube ( Ji ) was fixed ; c , a circular air space behind the disk 6 centims. in diameter , and 3 milliras .
to 5 millims deep .
Cavities of various dimensions and forms , spherical , conical , and trumpet-shaped , , were tried , but the ones described were those which gave the best effects .
Experiment2.\#151 ; An ebonite disk well blackened on one side when exposed to the intermittent rays was found to produce sounds , which Professor Hughes estimated to be about 20 as compared with his sonometer scale.* * Professor Hughes ' Sonometer ( " Proe .
Eoy .
Soc. " vol. , 29 , p. 56 ) proves an excellent apparatus to estimate the relative intensity of low sounds , for by shifting the induction coil from one side to the other , we can pass from an absolute zero , or pure silence , to a limit of sound of considerable intensity .
The scale divides this space passed over into 100 equal parts , any number of which give a fairly approximate value of the sounds compared .
The ear has to determine the equality of the1881 .
] Radiant Energy into Sonorous Vibrations .
3 .
* A similar ebonite disk equally well whitened , gave slightly less intense sounds estimated at 18 .
4 .
A zinc disk blackened gave sounds =8 .
5 .
A similar disk polished gave only sounds =2 .
6 .
Arnica disk blackened gave scarcely any sounds at all .
7 .
A clean mica disk gave sounds =5 .
These effects were produced many times , and on different occasions , and they were so unsatisfactory as to throw doubts on the accuracy of the radiometer explanation .
They were not so decided as theory led one to anticipate .
The effects produced by the zinc disk , though very weak , favoured the theory ; those given by the mica disk completely refuted it ; while those given by the ebonite disks were almost of a neutral character .
It was , however , thought that if D be the disk ( fig. 4 ) , and C the source of light , then if the excursions of the disks to and fro were due to expansion from the absorption of heat , it would first bulge towards A , since the side towards the source of light would expand first .
If , on the other hand , it were due to the radiometer effect , it would first bulge towards B. 8 .
An extremely delicate electrical contact arrangement was constructed to determine this by means of a telephone , which recorded the excursions to and fro of the disk ; but the result was sometimes in one direction , and sometimes in the other .
Moreover , the effect was slow , and we failed to obtain more than five distinct vibrations per second .
This result raised the question whether in Bell and Tainter 's experiments the disks vibrated at all .
intensity of the two sounds , i.e. , of the sonometer and the source investigated , and the value of the latter is given in terms of the scale of the former .
* The consecutive figures indicate the number of the experiments .
512 Mr. W. H. Preece .
Conversion of [ Mar. 10 9 .
A delicate microphone was fixed in various ways on the case fig. 3 .
Although the sounds emitted in the hearing tube were as intense as indicated in Experiment 1 , scarcely any perceptible effect was detected On the microphone .
Had the disk sensibly vibrated , its vibrations must have been taken up by the case .
A microphone never fails to take up and magnify the minutest mechanical disturbances .
It was thus evident that the disk did not play a prime part in this phenomenon , but it appeared as Professor Hughes suggested , that the result might be due wholly to an expansion and contraction of the air contained in the air space c , fig. 3 .
An entirely new set of cases and disks were now constructed , but of the same dimensions .
10 .
With a new clean case and an ebonite disk , the sonorous effects were feeble , viz. , 15 on the sonometer scale .
11 .
If , however , a lens ( d ) were placed close in front of the ebonite \#166 ; disk a , ( fig. 5 ) , the sonorous effects were magnified considerably , rising at once to about 40 .
12 .
A case was constructed similar to that shown in fig. 5 , but with ; a tube at the side , as well as one at the back , communicating with the air cavity in front of the disk , as well as that behind , and whether one listened at one place or the other , the effect was equally good , indicating that the results were most probably due to the expansions of the contained air .
13 .
When the one tube was stopped and opened by a cork while the other tube was used for listening , the quality of the sounds varied more than the intensity , but there was distinct evidence of variation .
14 .
The ebonite disk of this case was now fitted with an extremely delicate microphone , which in this case gave good indications upon the telephone , but whether the vibrations were the results of the 1881.J Radiant Energy into Sonorous Vibrations .
515 vibrations of the disk itself , or of the air in which the microphone was placed , was doubtful .
15 .
If the lens d , fig. 5 , were removed , and the disk left supported without any air cavity , either behind or in front of it sound could be obtained , proving that the effects were really due to the vibrations of the confined air , and not to those of the disk .
It was therefore determined to dispense with the disk altogether .
16 .
Case ( No. 1 ) similar to fig. 5 was taken , and the disk removed , but the lens remaining , the sonorous effects were nil .
17 .
Another case ( No. 2 ) , also similar to fig. 5 , was taken under similar circumstances , i.e. , without the disk , but the effects were very loud\#151 ; 60 ; in fact , the best results which had yet been obtained .
Now , the only difference between the one case or cup and the other , was that the one was blacked in the interior , and the other was not .
18 .
Hence Case No. 1 was again taken without the disk , and though when clean it gave no effect , when its interior was blacked by camphor smoke , it gave sounds as strong'as those in Experiment 17 , viz. , 60 .
It was thus evident that the sonorous effects were materially assisted by coating the sides of the containing vessel with a highly absorbent substance , such as the carbon deposited- by burning camphor .
It remained to be seen how far the lens played a part in this phenomenon .
19 .
The lens was now removed from the front of the case , and it was replaced by a moveable glass plate ( 1*5 millims. thick ) ( e ) fig. 6 ; the sounds were the same , but they gradually ceased on gradually uncovering the front opening of the case , so as to give the air room to expand .
20 .
The glass plate e was replaced by a heavy rigid plate of rock-salt 13 millims. thick , and the sounds were equally loud , namely , \#151 ; 60 .
514 Mr. AV .
H. Preece .
On Conversion of [ Mar. 10 21 .
The plate e was replaced by white note paper .
The sounds were very faint but perceptible .
22 .
It was replaced by thin cardboard , and the effect was nil .
23 .
All these effects were produced equally well , whether the cases were placed at C , fig. 2 , 400 centims. from the source of light , or 16 centims. from the rotating disk It , but in the latter case their intensity was of course always increased .
Hence it is abundantly evident that these sonorous vibrations are due to the motions of the contained air , and not to those of the disk ; that they are actually improved by the removal of the disk , that their production is materially assisted by lining the surface of the containing space with an absorbent substance , that they are dependent on the heat rays that pass through , and that they disappear when the rays are cut off from the air cavity by an athermanous diaphragm .
24 .
Dr. Tyndall having shown in the paper already referred to , that water vapour responded actively to these intermittent actions , a \lt ; dean empty one-ounce glass flask was taken and exposed to the intermittent beams .
Ho sound was produced .
25 .
It was then filled with water vapour by pouring a small quantity of water into it , and warming it in a flame , fair sounds of an intensity 25 were the result .
26 .
The flask was filled with the dense smoke from burning camphor , and the sounds were intensified considerably .
27 .
The case ( fig. 6 ) was taken and a glass plate 1*5 millims. thick fixed in front of it as before .
a. When the glass was dry , sounds were 20 .
b. When the glass was wetted on the inside , sounds were 25 .
28 .
Another clear one-ounce glass flask was taken .
a. When clear , sounds = 0 .
b. When filled with tobacco smoke , sounds s= 5 .
c. When filled with heavy camphor smoke , sounds = 30 .
29 .
One side of the flask was blackened on the outside , the other side remaining clear .
a. On exposing the clear side to the light fair sounds 25 were obtained .
b.On exposing the blackened side , no sounds were produced .
30 .
The flask was blackened in the on one side only .
a. When the blackened side was near the source , sounds = 25 .
b. When it was away from the source , sounds = 30 .
c. When the flask was cleaned , all sounds disappeared .
31 .
A thin glass plate was now blackened on one side and placed in front of the case , fig. 6 .
a. When the black surface was outside , no sounds were obtained .
1881 .
] Radiant Energy into Sonorous Vibrations .
b. When the black surface was inside , good sounds , 30 , were the result .
c. When the glass was cleaned , the sounds became = 50 .
32 .
An ebonite plate was similarly treated . ? .
When the blackened surface was outside , sounds = 15 were obtained . ? .
When the blackened surface was inside , the sounds were=3 .
This being an anomalous result , several experiments were now made to test the behaviour of opaque and transparent bodies , when -used as disks , for while in the previous experiments the effect was greatest when the blackened surface faced the interior , here we find the opposite result produced , viz. , the greatest effect was produced when the blackened surface was on the exterior .
33 .
Another ebonite disk 0*6 millim. thick was made dull on both sides by rubbing it with emery paper .
It was fixed in case ( Ho. 2 ) , fig. 5 , without the lens . ? .
It gave sounds = 15 . ? .
It was now blacked on one side , and when that side was turned to the source , it gave sounds = 30 .
c. The unblackened side was turned to the source , and it gave sounds = 15 .
34 .
A thin glass plate ( 1*5 millims. thick)\#151 ; ? .
When clear , gave sounds = 50 . ? .
When blackened thinly on one side , and that side turned to the source , it gave sounds = 20 .
c. When blackened thickly on one side and thinly on the other\#151 ; 1 .
Thick side to light , sounds = 0 .
2 .
Thin side to light , sounds = 20 .
35 .
A glass plate ( 3 millims. thick ) was blackened on one side .
a. Black outside , sounds = 2 .
b. , , inside , " = 30 .
36 .
A clean mica plate ( 1*2 millims. thick)\#151 ; a. Gave sounds = 30 .
b. When blacked on one side .
1 .
Black outside , sounds = 10 .
2 .
" inside , " = 30 .
37 .
Thin copper foil blacked on either side , sounds were nil .
38 .
A copper disk ( 0'2 millim. thick ) blacked on one side .
a. Black outside , sounds = 3 .
b. , , inside , , , =0 .
39 .
Zinc foil blacked on one side .
a. Black outside , sounds = 10 .
b. " inside , " = 3 .
516 Mr. W. H. Preece .
Conversion of [ Mar. 10 40 .
Zinc disk ( 07 millim. thick ) blacked on one side .
a. Black ontside , sounds = 10 .
b. " inside , " = 3 .
It thus appears that transparent bodies behave in an opposite wav to opaque bodies .
Glass and mica can be rendered athermanous and silent by making the carbon deposit sufficiently thick .
Zinc , copper , and ebonite can produce sonorous effects by a proper disposition of carbon .
The effect in these latter cases may be due either to molecular pressure , in fact , to a radiometer effect , though very feeble in intensity * or it may be the result of conduction through the mass of the diaphragm , that is , radiant heat is reduced to thermometric heat by absorption by the carbon deposit on the outside of the disk , this heat is transmitted through the disk and radiated to the absorbent gases in the interior .
41 .
To test these questions , a delicate microphone was fixed on a zinc disk ( 07 millim. thick ) without any air-cavity in front of or behind it .
a. The disk was blackened ; no measurable trace of sound was perceptible .
b. The disk was cleaned , with precisely the same result .
42 .
The zinc disk was now replaced on the case , fig. 5 , with the air-cavity , and sounds =10 were emitted as before .
a. The zinc was neatly covered with white paper\#151 ; a highly athermanous substance ; the sounds were nil .
b. The paper was blackened ; the sounds were still nil .
c. The zinc was covered with clear mica ; faint but unmeasurable sounds were heard .
d. The mica was blackened ; no perceptible sounds were obtained .
e. The zinc disk was blackened slightly in the usual way ; sounds = 10 were obtained .
f. The zinc was thickly blackened ; all sounds disappeared .
43 .
Ebonite disks of different thicknesses were used , and layers of carbon of different thicknesses were deposited on the thinnest of them .
The sounds became fainter and fainter as the thickness of the layer of carbon and the thickness of the ebonite increased , until they disappeared altogether .
These experiments fully establish the inference that the effect is one of conduction , and that the blackened surface of an opaque body like zinc acts as though the source of heat were transferred to the outside surface of the disk .
44 .
Tubes of various sizes and dimensions were now tried , to confirm Messrs. Bell and Tainter 's observations on tubes .
They invariably gave out satisfactory sounds when the intermittent rays were directed 1881 .
] Radiant Energy into Sonorous Vibrations .
517 into the interior of the tubes , which were always considerably intensified by blackening their interiors , and closing the open end with a glass plate .
45 .
Since the sounds varied considerably in intensity , according to the number of intermittences per second transmitted , white and ruby glass plates were used , and it was found that the maximum effect \gt ; ( 60 ) was produced when the note corresponding to the intermittences was\#151 ; With white glass ... ... . .
d'=297 vibr .
per sec. With ruby , , ... ... 6 =247 " " This showed that the element of time was a function of the amount .of radiant energy transmitted through the plate .
46 .
The two cases , which possessed air-cavities of different dimensions , were tried with white glass : Case 1 gave 6=247 vibr .
per sec. Case 2 " d'=297 " " Hence it is evident that there is a time element , and that the loudness of the note emitted depends upon the rapidity with which the contained air not only absorbs the degraded energy , but upon the rapidity with which it gives up its heat to the sides of the case and the exits open to it .
Though the pitch of the maximum note varied with the cavity and the amount of radiant heat transmitted , its quality never varied , notwithstanding the great diversity of materials used as diaphragms .
47 .
Since these sonorous effects are due to the expansions of absorbent gases under the influence of heat , and since wires are heated by the transference of electric currents through them , it seemed possible that if we enclosed a spiral of fine platinum wire P ( fig. 7 ) in a dark cavity , abed , well blacked on the inside , and sent through it , by means of the wheel-break W , rapid intermittent currents of electricity from the battery B , heat would be radiated , the air would .expand , and sounds would result .
This was done , and the sounds produced were excellent .
In fact , with four bichromate cells , sounds more intense than any previously observed were obtained .
Furthermore it was evident that if the wheel-break ( W ) were replaced by a good microphone transmitter , articulate speech should be heard in the case abed .
This was done , and an excellent telephone receiver was the consequence , by means of which speech was perfectly reproduced .
The explanation of these remarkable phenomena is now abundantly .clear .
It is purely an effect of radiant heat , and it is essentially one due to .the changes of volume in vapours and gases produced by the degradation and absorption of this heat in a confined space .
The disks in Bell vot .
xxxi .
2 o Mr. W. H. Preece .
On the Conversion of [ Mar. 10 , and Tainter 's experiments must be diatbermanons , and the better their character in this respect the greater the effect ; remove them , and the effect is greater still .
Messrs. Bell and Tainter* showed that the sounds maintained their timbre and pitch notwithstanding variation in the substance of the disk , and M. Mercadier found that a split or cracked plate acted as well as when it was whole .
These facts are consistent with the expansion of the contained air , but not with any mechanical disturbance of the disks .
Moreover , M. Mercadier showed that the effect was improved by lampblack , but he applied it in the ' wrong place .
The disks may , and perhaps do under certain conditions , vibrate , -but this vibration is feeble and quite a secondary action .
The sides of the containing vessel must possess the power to reduce the incident rays to thermometric heat , and impart it to the vapour they confine , and the more their power in this respect , as when blackened by carbon , the greater the effect .
The back of the disk may alone act in this respect .
Cigars , chips of wood , smoke , or any absorbent surfaces placed inside a closed transparent vessel will , by first absorbing and then radiating heat rays to the confined gas , emit sonorous vibrations .
The heat is dissipated in the energy of sonorous vibrations .
In all cases , time enters as an element , and the maximum effect depends on * " Journal of Society of Telegraph Engineers , " December 8 , 1880 .
1881 .
] Radiant Knergy into Sonorous Vibrations .
519 the diathermancy of the exposed side of the cavity , on its dimensions and surfaces , and on the absorbent character of the contained gas .
The remarkable property which deposited carbon possesses of reducing radiant energy to thermometric heat is strikingly shown by these experiments , and it suggests an important field for inquiry for those who are working in the region of radiant heat .
It is only necessary to add that , in carrying out these experiments , I have had the benefit of the presence and advice of Professor Hughes , and the inestimable advantage of the great mechanical skill , philosophical character , and experimental ability of Mr. Stroh , without whom , in fact , the inquiry could not have been accomplished .
Additional Note .
Received March 14 , 1881 .
Professor Stokes has suggested that the action is due not to the expansion of the contained vapour through its absorption of thermometric heat generated on the lamp-black surface , but to the contact of the air molecules with this surface .
It is clear that when the carbon is warmed , the rapidly moving air molecules which strike it and bound off have their retreating motion increased in velocity , This increased velocity means increased pressure , which in its turn produces increased volume , and this when intermittent , produces sonorous vibrations .
This explanation is quite in accordance with the observed facts , for the difference of the intensity of the sounds emitted by dry air and air charged with absorbent vapours is very much less , when a lamp-black surface is used , than was anticipated .
Dry air gives excellent results with lamp-black , but is silent without it .
Indeed it leads one to conceive that as charging the air with heavy smoke produces the same effect as coating the containing surface with lamp-black , each particle of smoke becomes a warmed surface from which the colliding air molecules , whose dimensions are infinitely smaller , retreat with 'increased velocity .
Moreover , if we conceive the smoke particles replaced by the compound molecules of absorbent vapours such as sulphuric ether , olefiant gas , or ammonia , and if we assume the dimensions of these molecules greater than those of the air , we have an explanation not only of the absorbent power of these gases , but of the reasons for their behaviour in converting radiant energy into sonorous vibrations .
It is clear that if the compound molecule act as a smoke particle , the radiant energy becomes degraded into thermometric heat , for the motion of the ether is transferred to the motion of the molecule .
The minute air molecules move unaffected in the undulating ether , but the larger compound molecules of the absorbent gas take up the waves of the ether , and assume that form of motion which is known as thermometric heat .
Hence , the greater the number of molecules and the larger their dimensions , the greater the absorption 2 o 2 520 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ Mar. 10 , of heat and the more the production of sonorous vibrations , for a .greater number of air atoms will collide with warmed surfaces in a given time .
That this assumption is justified is proved by the fact that this absorption of radiant energy renders the particles of dissociated nitrite of amyl and other vapours visible as well as warm , and therefore they can assume dimensions that are comparable with the particles of smoke .
II .
" On the Limit of the Liquid State .
" By J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received February 22 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author gives an extended account of the work undertaken to determine whether the liquid state extends above the critical temperature , or whether it is bounded by an isothermal line passing through the critical point , as had been indicated in a former paper .
A large apparatus was constructed , with several improvements before described , details of construction being given in the full paper .
It was found that manometers with small bores gave higher readings than those with larger internal diameter , so the manometers used were of the largest size compatible with the strength required to resist the pressure .
The thermometers were carefully prepared by heating and cooling , and compared with the standard at Kew .
All the usual precautions were taken to obtain accurate numbers .
The critical temperature and pressure of the liquids were first determined accurately , and then a quantity of a gas insoluble in the liquid was compressed over the liquid , and the critical temperature again determined under increased pressure .
When the densities of the two bodies , e.g. , alcohol and hydrogen , are far apart from each other , the gas shows no effect in lowering the critical temperature , as is the case with carbon dioxide and air , whose densities approach much nearer , but simply acts as a spring against which the upper surface of the alcohol bears thus having a surface free for observation at pressures far above that of the vapour of the liquid .
When the liquid passes the critical temperature at any pressure the meniscus is lost , and the fluid freely diffuses into the superincumbent gas , but this does not occur at temperatures below the critical , except where very high pressure has made the-gas appreciably soluble in the liquid .
Thus the curve of vapour tension , that is , the curve representing the temperatures at which a given pressure will produce liquefaction suddenly becomes isothermal at the critical point , and passes along the co-ordinate denoting the critical temperature . . . . . . .
As surface tension is the only property by which the liquid state

