181 Report on an Area of Local Magnetic Disturbance East Loch Roag , LewesHebrides .
By Captain Arthur Mostyn Field , Royal Navy .
( Communicated by Rear-Admiral Sir William Wharton , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received January 24 , \#151 ; Read February 9 , 1905 .
) Consequent upon a report received in October , 1902 , that on passing eastward of Little Bernera Island at the entrance of East Loch Roag , the Northern Lighthouse Commissioners ' vessel had observed her compass to be deflected 5 ' or 6 ' , an opportunity was taken by H.M.S. " Research " whilst surveying in the neighbourhood to verify the statement .
Steaming slowly over the ground , in a depth of 16 to 18 fathoms , sandy bottom , the deflection was seen to amount to 10 ' or 11 ' , and in a direction contrary to that which had hitherto been noticed by vessels-passing over areas of magnetic disturbances in various parts of the world .
Beyond a few preliminary observations to ascertain the horizontal deflection of the needle , nothing further could then be done without special instruments .
In the following year , however , the hydrographer , Admiral Sir W. J. L. Wharton , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , directed a more complete examination to be made , for which purpose a heeling error instrument and Lord Kelvin 's deflector were supplied .
In June , 1903 , H.M.S. " Research " accordingly returned to East Loch Roag , and a week was devoted to making observations for variation , vertical force , and horizontal force at 73 stations , the ship being tautly moored at each .
Owing to the area to be examined lying in a position exposed to a heavy swell from the northward , which was constantly experienced , the observations were made under considerable difficulties .
The results are given in tabular form , from which diagrams have been constructed .
The maximum disturbance from the normal was found to be , for vertical force , 0*056 C.G.S. unit in an upward direction , and for variation 11\#163 ; ' , the north seeking end of the needle being repelled from the valley line , which lies nearly in the magnetic meridian .
The " Research " being a composite built ship , is subject to induction when placed in a magnetic field ; measures of magnetic disturbances independently of the magnetism induced in the ship are , therefore , impracticable .
For this VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; A. O 182 Capt. A. M. Field .
On Area of Local [ Jan. 24 , Magnetic Disturbance in the Hebrides .
1905 .
] reason observations taken on board " Research " can only locate the " magnetic shoal " and measure its extent .
The methods adopted for the survey of this area of magnetic disturbance , so as to obviate as far as possible this limitation , are stated below .
Variation.\#151 ; The ship was carefully swung for deviation in deep water in the vicinity , but outside the influence of the area of magnetic disturbance .
When in position on the magnetic shoal and tautly moored , the bearing of a distant peak was noted from the standard compass ( 45 feet abaft the bridge compass and 12 feet above the sea ) .
The ship 's position being accurately plotted on the original plotting sheet of Loch Roag ( 6'9 inches to the sea mile ) , the true bearing of the distant peak was taken off .
Vertical Force.\#151 ; The observations for vertical force were obtained on board with the heeling error instrument , at the position of the bridge compass Decimal point indicates observation spot in each case .
Normal horizontal force in locality , from Professor Thorpe 's observations , 0T5507 C.G.S. unit .
of equal disturbance in C.G.S. units upwards from n ormal .
Normal vertical force in locality , from Professor Thorpe 's observations , is O'451 C.G.S. unit .
o 2 Magnetic Disturbance in the Hebrides .
16 feet above the sea .
The bridge compass and pillar , without its correcting magnets , were subsequently landed at Kiicker and Thorpe 's Station on Great Bernera Island , and the heeling error instrument was observed to be horizontal with the movable weight set at 38'8 scale divisions .
Horizontal Force.\#151 ; The observations for horizontal force were obtained on board with the bridge compass ( corrected by fore and aft and athwartship magnets ) by the aid of Lord Kelvin 's deflector set at 12'0 scale divisions , and used as a sine deflector .
After obtaining observations for horizontal force within the area of magnetic disturbance , the ship 's head having been noted at each observation , she was then taken into deep water outside the area of disturbance , and the observations repeated with her head in corresponding directions .
The bridge compass and pillar , without its correcting magnets , were then landed at Kiicker and Thorpe 's Station , and with the deflector set at 12 0 scale divisions , the angle of deflection was observed to be 35T5 ' .
General Remarks.\#151 ; The anchors were laid out as far apart as possible on either side of the " valley line , " and the ship was hauled slowly across with a spring on the cable to keep her head quite steady whilst the observations were being made .
A heavy swell caused the ship to roll considerably , making satisfactory observations of the horizontal force especially very difficult to obtain .
The agreement of the " valley line , " resulting from the observations for variation and for vertical force , is noticeable .
Placing the ( full size ) horizontal force sheet over the vertical force sheet , it is observed that the change in value of the horizontal force takes place at the lowest points in the " valley " or line of least vertical force , and shows the repellent force of the magnetism at those lowest points .

