16 The Total Ionisation produced in Different ( rases by the Cathode Rays ejected by X-Rays .
By R. D. Kleeman , D.Sc .
, B.A. , McKinnon Student of the Eoyal Society , Emmanuel College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. W. H. Brag , F.R.S. Received March 25 , \#151 ; Read June 2 , 1910 .
) It is probable that the energy necessary to make an ion from any given atom does not depend much on the nature of the ionising agent or on its penetrating power .
' But no direct experiments have yet been made to test this point , except those described in this paper .
The quantity usually measured is the ionisation produced in different gases by an ionising agent when it is completely absorbed .
The total ionisation may then be expressed as the product of two factors : ( i ) the average ionisation per unit length of path of the rays , and ( ii ) the total distance traversed ; or , the total ionisation produced when the energy of the ionisation falls from Ex to E2 , where .
( Ex\#151 ; E2 ) is small , is equal to the product of the ionisation per unit length by the distance traversed .
The writer has carried out some experiments on the ionisation produced per centimetre in various gases by the / 3-rays of uranium and actinium.* The velocity of the / 3-rays of actinium is less than that of the / 3-rays of uranium , for the penetrating power of the latter , as measured by their absorption in aluminium , is about double that of the former .
But it was found that the relative ionisations in different gases per centimetre of path are practically the same .
In other words , the ratio of the ionisation per centimetre in any given gas to that in air is the same for both sets of / 3-rays .
It seems probable , therefore , that this quantity does not depend very much on the penetrating power of the rays .
Prof. Brag then suggested that further light might be thrown on the connection between ionisation and absorption by measurements of the total ionisation produced by cathode rays .
A set of measurements was accordingly undertaken .
A diagram of the apparatus.-used is shown in fig. 1 .
A is a cylindrical ionisation chamber partitioned into two by the lead wall a. The chamber was originally not designed for this experiment , but adapted to it by dividing it into two compartments .
Three windows b , d , c in the same straight line enabled a beam of X-rays from the bulb B to be shot right through the * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 83 , p. 530 , 1910 .
Ionisation produced by the Cathode Rays ejected by X-Rays .
17 chamber .
The two outer windows b and c are of aluminium , and the intermediate , one d is of tissue paper .
Their dimensions are : 5 cm .
by 2 mm. ; d , 5 cm .
by 2 cm .
; and c , 6 cm .
by 1 cm .
A plate of brass which makes a TO PUMP close sliding contact with the chamber wall , has two windows cut in it , either of which can be moved in front of the window b. A different view of the plate g and the slit b is shown in fig. 2 .
The plate is supported by the rod e , which can be clamped in any desired position to a fixed rod by the clamp f. The two windows in the brass plate were covered with a piece of cardboard about 1 mm. thick .
The surface of the cardboard opposite the windows was covered with four layers of gold leaf .
But in one of the windows this leaf was placed on the side of the cardboard facing the interior of the chamber , and in the other it was placed on the side nearest the wall of the chamber .
The leak in the chamber is a measure of the ionisation between d and g. It is due to the ions made in the gas by the direct action of the X-rays , and to those made by the cathode rays from whichever window of the plate g is in the path of the X-rays .
When the window with the gold leaf facing the interior of the chamber is placed in the path of the X-rays , a larger amount of cathode radiation is obtained than when the other window is so placed .
This is due to the fact that the absorption of X-rays by the gold is much greater than that by an equal mass of cardboard , and there is a consequent larger production of cathode rays .
Moreover , the chance of a cathode ray VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; A. c 18 Dr. Kleeman .
Ionisation produced in Different [ Mar. 25 , getting out of the material is the same in the two cases , for the scattering of the cathode rays is the same for equal masses .
If , therefore , a leak is taken with the gold covered window in the path of the X-rays , and then a leak with the cardboard window only , we can , by subtracting the second from the first , obtain a leak due to the cathode radiations from the gold only , the leak due to the direct action of the X-rays on the gas disappearing in the subtraction .
In order to be independent of the variations in the intensity of the X-rays a standard chamber C was used .
The leak in the chamber A when the X-ray bulb was working was measured directly by an electrometer while the leak in the chamber C was stored up .
The electrometer was then discharged and connected with the chamber C , and its charge measured .
The ratio of the two deflections is independent of the intensity*of the X-rays and of the time of leak .
The cathode rays ejected by X-rays are absorbed by a few millimetres of air at atmospheric pressure .
Now the distance across the chamber from gto dis 4 cm .
Therefore , unless the pressure is very low , the cathode rays are entirely absorbed by the gas .
Thus the above measurements give the total ionisation produced by the cathode rays .
The method of filling the chamber with the gas under examination is described in detail in the author 's paper quoted above .
In brief , the chambers A and B were exhausted down to a few millimetres pressure by means of a Fleuss pump , and the liquid was allowed to evaporate into the apparatus by the arrangement shown at h , The remnant of air in the chamber is swept by the vapour into the chamber D. Experimental Bemlts .
Measurements carried out in the manner described show that if we confine ourselves to gases whose molecules contain no atoms heavier than oxygen , the total ionisation is practically independent of the pressure .
There was just a slight increase as the pressure was increased , but not sufficiently large or definite to be taken account of .
But with gases containing atoms heavier than oxygen the total ionisation increased with pressure .
Such an effect would be obtained if the gold radiates soft X-rays in addition to the cathode rays .
This would have the effect of superposing on the constant ionisation due to the cathode rays an extra amount of ionisation proportional to the pressure .
The curve connecting ionisation and pressure would , therefore , slope up as the pressure is increased .
It is evident that the slope of the curve is dependent on the rate of absorption of the X-rays in the gas .
In light gases the absorption is very small , and hence this upward slope 1910 .
] Gases by the Cathode Rays ejected by X-Rays .
19 is also very small .
But in heavy gases the absorption is very much greater .
Thus , according to Crowther , the ionisations in C2H5Br and CH3I are 72 and 145 times as great as the ionisation in air .
This upward tendency is therefore very much greater in such gases , and its effect was well marked .
It was found that in gases containing chlorine atoms the increase of ionisation with pressure is practically linear .
The total ionisation caused by the cathode rays , since they are in each case totally absorbed , is given by the intercept of this line on the ionisation axis .
The total ionisation in gases containing chlorine was determined in this way .
The correction thus introduced amounted to about 20 or 30 per cent. But with gases containing bromine and iodine the increase of ionisation with pressure was much larger and was not linear .
It was , therefore , impossible to obtain a value for the total ionisation of the cathode rays in these gases .
Moreover , the experiments were rendered difficult from the fact that the ionisation produced by the direct action of the primary X-rays on the gas was greater than that produced by the cathode radiations from the gold .
In the case of the light gases the opposite was the case* The apparent total ionisation of CH3I in terms of that in air is plotted in fig. 3 .
The intercept on the ionisation axis is the total ionisation due to the cathode rays .
This could , however , not be determined from the curve .
z .
O 5 , \#171 ; /\gt ; z o The curve resembles a saturation curve ; the maximum ionisation ordinate would give the sum of the total ionisations produced by the cathode rays and by the secondary X-rays .
The shape of the curve must depend to a certain extent on the cathode radiation of high velocity ejected from the gas .
But we see that the maximum ordinate would be about twice the intercept on the axis .
This means that the energy liberated in the form of soft X-rays is of about the same order as that liberated in the form of cathode rays .
When a light gas , such as air , is used the effect due to the soft X-rays is less than one-hundredth of that due to the cathode rays .
c 2 PRESSURE IN CMS OF MERCURY 20 Dr , Kleeman .
Ionisation produced in Different [ Mar. 25 , i.e. , in a chamber of the dimensions of that used in these experiments .
A similar curve was obtained with ethyl bromide , but it did not rise so rapidly with the pressure .
Both the methyl iodide and the ethyl bromide curves indicate that the relative total ionisation for the cathode rays probably lies between 1 and 2 .
The experimental results are now given in Table I. The total ionisations obtained by Prof. Bragg* with the a-particle are also placed in the table for comparison .
It will be seen that they are almost exactly the same as obtained by the writer with the cathode rays .
Now , the total ionisation is equal to the product of the length of path traversed by the ionising agent when its energy falls from Ei to E2 , into the ionisation per unit length of path .
The relative ionisation per unit length does not seem to depend on the velocity of the / 3-rays according to the experiments by the writer on the ionisation by the / 3-rays of actinium and uranium { loc. cit. ) , and this probably holds therefore down to cathode rays .
This is shown by Table II , which also contains the ionisations per unit length , , of path obtained by Prof. Bragg for the a-particle .
It appears from this table , then , that the ionisations for the a-particle are approximately the same as for the / 3-rays of actinium or uranium for gases which contain no atoms heavier than chlorine .
Therefore , since total ionisation = ionisation per centimetre x length of path , the relative distances traversed in different gases when the energy falls from Ex to E2 are probably the same for the a-particle and for cathode rays .
Now , the distance traversed by the a-particle is inversely as the sum of the square roots of the atomic weights of the constituent atoms of the molecule , and this law therefore probably holds also for cathode rays in gases which contain no heavier atoms than chlorine .
The path of the cathode ray , will , however , not be a straight line .
Apart from any relations between the length of path traversed by the a-particle and by the cathode ray for a given decrease of energy , the equality between the numbers representing the total ionisations indicates that the energy necessary to ionise an atom is the same for the a-particle as for the cathode ray .
The writer has shownf that the electron ejected by ah a-particle has a component of motion in the direction of motion of the a-particle , and that therefore part , at least , of the energy of ionisation is derived from the kinetic energy of the a-particle .
It follows , therefore , that probably the same amount of energy of ionisation is derived from the ionising cathode ray .
* ' Trans. Roy .
Soc. of South Australia/ October , 1906 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Prpc./ A , vol. 83 , p. 195 , 1909 .
5 .
1910 .
] Gases by the Cathode Rays ejected by X-Rays .
\#166 ; Table I. Name of gas .
Total ionisation by cathode rays .
1 Total ionisation by the a-particle .
Air 100 1 00 Carbon dioxide , C03 1 *08 1 *08 Ethyl oxide , C4H10O 1 *23 1*32 Pentane , C5H12 ... .
1 *31 1 *35 Benzene , C6H6 1-20 1 *29 Ethyl chloride , C2H5CI 1-33 1 *32 Chloroform , CHC13 Ethyl bromide , C2H5Br Methyl iodide , CH3I 1 *34 1 Probably lying / between 1 and 2 1-29 Table II .
Gras .
Ionisation by the a-particles of radium .
Ionisation by the jS-rays of uranium .
Ionisation by the / 5-rays of actinium .
Air 100 1-00 1-00 o2 1 *15 1*17 co2 1 *59 1 -60 C\#171 ; H40 !
2-14 2*12 c6'h12 4-85 4-55 CH40 1-74 1 *69 o4h10o 4*40 4-39 4-28 c6H6 4-30 3*95 C2H5C1 3T2 3 -24 3*24 CHCls 4*08 4-94 CC14 5*28 6-28 cs2 2-99 3*62 CHSI 3*43 5*90 5-11 Table III .
Atoms .
Atomic ionisation .
Atomic stopping power .
Relative energy spent per ion .
H 0 *175 0-132 0 -754 0 ; 0-51 0-456 0-894 N 0-47 0*493 1-05 O 6-55 0-530 0-962 S 1-24 0-745 0-603 Cl 1*16 0*785 0-676 * Br 1-72 1 -18 0-685 I 2-26 1 -48 0-658 H* 0-116 0*132 1-14 t 22 Dr. Kleeman .
Ionisation produced in Different [ Mar. 25 , Other Work on the Subject .
It will be of interest to give here a short summary of and discussion upon the work that has bepn done on total ionisation , and the energy necessary to make an ion .
The energy necessary to make an ion relative to that required to make an ion in air is not always independent of the nature of the parent atom nor of chemical combination .
If S denotes the stopping of a gas for an a-particle , then the range of the particle is 1/ S , The total ionisation caused by the particle is then given byT = I/ S , where I is the ionisation per centimetre of path .
Further , the energy necessary to make a single ion E is inversely proportional to the total number of ions made .
Therefore we get E = S/ I. Now , the stopping power as regards a-rays is additive in all gases , being , in fact , proportional to the sum of the square roots of the masses of the atoms.* The ionisation per centimetre is also approximately additive in all gases tried except hydrogen.f We may therefore assume that the atoms involved would have the same stopping power and atomic ionisation in the free state as they have when combined , and that these quantities are additive .
The values of E may therefore be calculated for these atoms , using the values of S and I determined from compounds obeying the additive law .
This equation has in this way been applied by the writer ( loc. cit. ) to a-particle ionisation data given by Prof. Bragg.{ The results are given in Table III .
It will be seen that the relative energy necessary to make an ion is not independent of the nature of the parent atom .
The differences are much greater than could possibly be accounted for by experimental error .
Since the total ionisation obtained with the cathode rays .
is the same as with the a-particle , these values also apply when the ion is made by a cathode ray .
The stopping power of the hydrogen atom is normal , that is , the same amount of energy is expended upon an atom of pure hydrogen as when the Hydrogen is combined in a compound .
But the ionisation per centimetre in hydrogen is less than that deduced from the additive law .
The energy spent in making an ion in pure hydrogen will be given as before by dividing the stopping power of the atom by the ionisation per atom deduced from measurements in hydrogen itself .
The energy deduced in this way is placed under H* in the table .
It will be seen that it is much greater than the * Bragg and Kleeman , ' Phil. Mag. , ' September , 1905 .
t Kleeman , * Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 79 , 1907 .
J * Trans. Boy .
Soc. of South Australia , ' October , 1906 .
1910 .
] Gases by the Cathode Rays ejected by X-Rays .
23 other value obtained when the hydrogen atom occurs in a compound containing other atoms besides hydrogen atoms .
The absolute amount of energy necessary to make an ion cannot be less than a certain value , viz. , the work done in separating two electrical charges from a distance apart equal to the radius of the molecule to an infinite distance .
This work is e2/ r , which becomes 1'16 x 10~u erg if we put e \#151 ; 34 x 10"10 and r = 10-8 cm .
All the best determinations of the energy necessary to make an ion give a value of this order .
When an atom is ionised the electron must possess an amount of kinetic energy equal to the above to enable it to get away from the positive atom .
But besides this it probably has an additional quantity of energy sufficient to make its temperature equal to that of the parent atom .
The mass of an electron given by the equation e/ m=l*84xl07 is 6*1 x 10-28 gramme .
If the mass of a hydrogen molecule is taken as 14'2 x 10"25 gramme , and its velocity of translation at 0 ' C. as 185,900 cm .
per second , then we have v2 x 6*1 x 10-28 = 14*2 x 10-25 x ( 185,9002 ) , where v is the additional velocity of the electron .
This equation gives v = 9 x 106 cm .
per second .
The energy corresponding to this velocity is 2'47 x 10-u erg , which is small in comparison with the energy expended in separating the electron from its parent atom .
It is of interest to note that the slow cathode particles set free by the a-particle and by cathode rays have a velocity of 3'4 x 108 cm .
per second , and this velocity is independent of the nature of the metal which emits them.* The kinetic energy corresponding to this velocity is 3*5 x 10~12 erg , which is of the same order of magnitude as the energy necessary to make an ion .
Rutherford and McClungf have determined the energy necessary to make an ion by X-rays on .the assumption that all the energy absorbed is expended in ionisation .
The energy of the rays was measured by their heating effect .
They obtained for the energy necessary to make an ion the value 19*6 x 10-11 erg .
This value is probably too high , for according to Barkla a large amount of energy is dissipated in the form of scattered radiation .
A gas at a high temperature undergoes considerable ionisation .
Equilibrium is reached when the number of ions formed is equal to the number lost by recombination .
The thermodynamics of such a process , which has been worked out by Gibbs and others , gives an equation connecting the work of dissociation or ionisation with other known quantities .
This relation has been used by H. A. Wilson^ to determine the energy of ionisation from * Fiichtbauer , 'Ann .
d. Phys./ p. 301 , June , 1907 .
t ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 196 , p. 25 , 1902 .
X 'Phil .
Trans./ A , vol. 197 , p. 415 , 1901 .
24 Ionisation produced by the Cathode Rays ejected by X-Rays .
measurements of the conductivity of a gas .
He obtained the value 2'8 x 10-12 erg in this way .
Townsend , * in his experiments on ionisation by collision , was able to determine from the electric field applied the velocity of the electron when it produced an ion by collision .
This velocity he found to be 2*7 x 10 ?
cm .
per sec. He thus obtained the value 2*3 x 10-11 erg as the energy necessary to produce an ion .
This velocity is of the same order as the thermal velocity of agitation of an electron at a temperature of the order of 1000 ' C. Possibly at high temperatures the free ions in matter might produce fresh ions merely by their velocity of agitation .
Stark found from other data the value 5*1 x 10-11 erg , while Langevin gives the value 10*1 x 10"11 erg .
Rutherfordf has determined the energy necessary to make an ion by the a-particle .
Knowing the heating effect of a gramme of radium and the number of a-particles ejected , the kinetic energy of an a-particle was calculated to be 47 x 10~6 erg .
Now 48 per cent , of the kinetic energy is spent on ionisation , and since an a-particle produces about ^6,000 ions , the energy necessary to make an ion becomes 2-7 x 10"11 erg .
I wish to thank Prof. Brag for his kind and inspiring interest in these experiments .
* 'Phil .
Mag. , ' vol. 6 , 1 , p. 198 , 1901 .
t ' Radio-activity , ' second edition .

