On a Gregarine present in Mid-Gut Ceratophylli .
31 effect on the subsequent development of ingested within 24 to 48 hours after the arsenic blood .
III .
The feeding of flies on arsenic-containing blood immediately after the imbibition of T. gambiense usually prevents further development of the trypanosomes in the fly .
In the event of development occurring the strain produced is not arsenic-fast .
IY .
Arsenphenylglycin exerts a prophylactic effect in a monkey against infection with T. gambiense by positive ; this effect varies with the dosage employed , and is considerably greater than when the trypanosomes are introduced by direct inoculation of infected blood .
On a Gregarine\#151 ; Steinina rotundata , nor .
\#151 ; -Present in the Mid-Gut of Bird-Fleas of the Genus Ceratophyllus .
By J. H. Ashworth , D.Sc .
, and Theodore Rettie , D.Sc .
, Zoological Department , University of Edinburgh .
( Communicated by J. C. Ewart , F.R.S. Received September 28 , \#151 ; Read December 5 , 1912 .
) [ Plate 1 .
] The G-regarine described in the following account was first observed by one of us , in autumn , 1909 , in the alimentary canal of fleas\#151 ; Rothschild\#151 ; from a sand-martin 's nest.* We have since collected , from several localities in the Scottish Lowlands , numerous larval , pupal , and adult specimens of C. styx , in which we have observed the various phases of development of the parasite .
We have also dissected about 500 fleas of other species , in order to determine whether they also harboured the Gregarine which we had found in C. styx .
The species examined were C. farreni , Rothsch .
, from nests of the house-martin ; C. Schrank , from nests of the blue-tit , f the blackbird , the thrush , and the robin ; * The Rev. J. Waterston had previously reported that he had noticed in a specimen of C. styx , mounted whole , after having been partially cleared in caustic potash , a rounded body of doubtful nature .
He kindly obtained for us other examples of C. styx from the locality in which he had collected the specimen referred to .
These proved to contain the vegetative phases of the parasite described in this account .
t Most of the batches of C. gallince examined were from the nests of the blackbird and the thrush , and were found to be either free from Gregarines or infected in very small degree only .
But a heavily infected colony was found in the nest of a blue-tit , taken 32 Drs. J. H. Ashworth and T. Rettie .
[ Sept. 28 , C. gallinulce , Dale , from nests of the chaffinch and blackbird ; cams , Curtis , from rabbits ; and Pulex irritans , Linn. , from a dog-kennel .
All the series of C. styx dissected proved to be heavily infected , the percentage carrying Gregarines ranging from 65 to 100 .
The degree of infection was much less in the case of and about 7 per cent , in the former and 5 per cent , in the latter\#151 ; while the remaining species above mentioned were found to be free from Gregarines .
There are four previous records of the occurrence of Gregarines in fleas .
R Leuckart* mentioned that he had observed Gregarines in the gut of flea-larvse , but gave no other information regarding them .
E. H. Eos3f found specimens , for which he proposed the name Gregarina canis , in the alimentary canal of adult examples of the dog-flea\#151 ; " serraticeps , " collected in Egypt .
He described the trophozoites , which were frequently found in pairs , as rostrated and pear-shaped , and gave a brief account of the life-history of the parasite , at least , of those phases which occur in the adult flea .
The description given is , however , not sufficient to permit the organism to be identified with certainty , but several of the features mentioned by Eoss indicate that the " Gregarina " which he observed is distinct from the organism which forms the subject of the present communication .
The third record is by Wellmer , $ in the following terms : " Actinocephalus parvus , n. sp. , im Darm der Larven von fringillce ( Wlk .
) und C. gallince ( Schrank ) .
Das auf einem kurzen Halse des Protomerites sitzende , lange bestandige , scheibenformige Epimerit , tragt 8 Haken ; Maxiinallange der Sporonten 140 This Gregarine is markedly different from ours in the nature of the armature of the epimerite and in other respects .
The fourth record , by C. Strickland , S relates to a Gregarine which lives for part of its life in the alimentary tract of the larva of Ceratophyllus fasciatus , and " for the other part lives freely in the excrement of this host .
" Strickland states that " the form of its epimerite and spores|| precludes us from placing it in any of the known families of from a hole in a wall .
This nest , in regard to protection and supply of moisture , was comparable to those of the sand-martin , and , like the latter , was evidently favourable to the survival of the spores of the Gregarine and to the chances of infection of the flea-larvae .
* 'Arch .
f. Naturgesch .
, ' 26 Jahrg .
, 1861 , Bd .
2 , p. 263 .
t ' Ann. Trop .
Med. , ' Liverpool , 1909 , vol. 2 , pp. 359-363 .
J ' Zool. Anz .
, ' 1910 , Bd .
35 , p. 533 .
Wellmer has since figured a cephalont and a sporont of Actinocephalus parvus in his Inaug .
Diss .
, ' Sporozoen Ostpreussischer Arthro-poden , ' Konigsberg , 1911 , p. 33 .
This memoir is also published in ' Sclir .
Physik.-Okonom .
Ges .
, ' Konigsberg , Jalirg .
52 , 1911 , Heft 2 .
S ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , vol. 16 , pp. 460 , 461 .
|| No details of the forms of these are given .
1912 .
] On a Gregarine present in Mid-Gut of Ceratophylli .
33 cephaline Eugregarines , which have spores unarmed with spines .
" He proposes to name the Gregarine Agrippina bona , and to refer it to a new family\#151 ; the Agrippinidae .
As this Gregarine exhibits features so striking as to require for its reception a new family , it is evidently different from that described below , for the latter is referable to a well-known genus , Steinina .
Agrippina bona differs from the new species of described in the following pages , not only in certain points of structure , but in being restricted to the larval gut and faeces , for , in the trophozoites , although occurring in the larva , reach their full size only in the adult flea .
Description of Steinina rotundata , and of its Life-History .
The life-cycle of this Gregarine has been traced almost exclusively in specimens of Ceratoyhyllus styx .
The early trophic phases of the Gregarine occur in the larvae of this flea , and are either attached to the wall or lie free in the lumen of the mid-gut .
We have carefully examined the freshly dissected mid-gut , and also serial sections of the gut of many infected larvae and adults , but we have not been able to identify an intra-cellular phase of the Gregarine .
This stage , if it exists , will be extremely difficult to recognise with certainty , owing to the close resemblance between the young Gregarines and the smaller cells about the bases of the gastral epithelium , especially in the neighbourhood of the numerous crypts of regeneration .
If there be an intra-cellular stage , it is of brief duration only , for we have observed a number of very young , ovoid trophozoites , 10 long and 5 y broad , * attached by their narrower ends to the epithelial cells and hanging into the lumen of the mid-gut ( Plate 1 , fig. 1 ) .
Average specimens of the Gregarine , from the mid-gut of young adult fleas , are 45 to 10 y long and 30 to 50 broad , but , when full grown , the parasite attains a length of 180 y and a breadth of 70 to 80 It is usually differentiated into three regions\#151 ; epimerite , protomerite , and deutomerite .
The epimerite varies considerably in shape .
It often has the form of a blunt and flattened cone ( figs. 2a , 3 , 5 , 6 ) , on the apex of which a small pointed process may be present ( fig. 3 ) .
In some specimens the epimerite is discoidal or saucer-shaped ( fig. 4 ) , its edge being slightly upturned ( that is , away from the protomerite ) .
The margin of the epimerite is rarely entire ; sometimes it is lobate , but more usually it is fringed with short processes , rounded or pointed at their tips .
These processes are , in some specimens , placed at almost regular intervals and form a single series , while in others they are less evenly arranged , and may be in two or three irregular rows ( figs. 2 , 4 , 5 , 6 ) .
* The sporozoite is about 10 ylong and 1*5-2 yu broad ( see p. 36 ) .
VOL. LXXXVI.\#151 ; B. D Drs. J. H. Ashworth and T. Rettie .
[ Sept. 28 , The protomerite is narrowed in front into a neck-like region , which bears the epimerite , but the " neck " is usually short , and it is very short in the case of specimens lying free in the gut .
The protomerite and deutomerite together form a mass which , in the smaller trophozoites , is usually oval , or , in some cases , nearly spherical , but in the largest examples is almost pear-shaped ( fig. 8 ) .
These two regions are separated internally by a thin septum , but the external surface does not bear any well-marked groove indicating the line of separation .
In the few cases in which an external groove was present , it was faint .
The septum is seldom equatorial in position ; it is generally nearer the epimerite.* Below the thin epicyte ( cuticle ) there is a peripheral layer of ectoplasm 2 to 3 / tin breadth , which is clear , as it contains few granules .
This layer is thicker at the distal end of the deutomerite .
The protoplasm of the " neck " is generally homogeneous , like the ectoplasm .
In this region faint longitudinal strise , probably myocyte fibrillse ( myonemes ) , are present ( fig. 9 ) .
Such striae were not observed in other portions of the Gregarine .
The endoplasm is very fluid , and contains numerous grey , refringent , nutrient granules , the largest of which are about 2 / i in diameter .
Granules are much more abundant and coarser in the endoplasm of the deutomerite than in that of the protomerite .
The nucleus is invariably situated in the deutomerite .
In the fresh condition it is a clear vesicle with regular outlines , and contains from one to four karyosomes .
The latter are usually homogeneous , but sometimes they are vacuolated ( figs. 4 , 5 , 9 ) , and in several cases they were observed to contain spherules of more refringent nature ( fig. 6 ) , composed of denser chromatin .
The Gregarines generally occur in considerable numbers ; in one case 75 were present in the mid-gut , but they are not found in pairs , except at the moment of encystment .
When full grown the Gregarines become associated in pairs , preparatory to the formation of gametes .
We have made numerous attempts to obtain the early stages of this association , but in the youngest met with the organisms had formed the common cyst wall , and the peripheral protoplasm of each individual was already raised into the rounded masses , which would soon have become gametes .
We conclude that the association of the two * We have seen a considerable number of trophozoites of various sizes up to 40 fi in length , in which the epimerite was wanting .
These were lying free in the cavity of the mid-gut .
They were ovoid in form ( fig. 2 , B ) , and the septum was almost invariably absent .
Whether such specimens can subsequently develop a new epimerite , and re-attach themselves to the gut-wall , was not ascertained with certainty , but it appears probable that the smaller ones , at any rate , may do so .
1912 .
] On a Gregarine present in Mid-Gut Ceratophylli .
35 individuals , and the formation of the cyst wall and of the gametes succeed each other very rapidly in this species .
A period of about two months elapses between the time of infection and the first appearance of cysts .
This was ascertained by examination at regular intervals of the series of larval , pupal , and adult fleas , which were infected in the laboratory ( see below , p. 36 ) .
Young larvae , recently hatched , were collected on August 5 , 1910 , and placed , on August 8 , in the debris of a nest known to be infected with the Gregarine .
During the fortnight following August 10 , 14 larvae were examined ; in all of them early trophic phases of the parasite were present .
On August 25 , cocoons were noticed ; they contained either pupae or scarcely formed adults .
On August 26 , 27 , and 30 , young adult fleas were removed from the cocoons and dissected , but only early vegetative phases of the Gregarine were found .
Other adult fleas from this series , dissected at intervals during September , also exhibited trophic phases of the parasite .
The first cysts were observed on October 15 , that is , more than nine weeks after the larvae had been placed in the infective environment .
The cysts are approximately spherical ( fig. 10 ) , and range from 110 to 185 / x in diameter.* When first formed they are translucent and grey , but they become finally yellow or yellowish-brown in colour .
A mucous portion of the cyst envelope ( i.e. the epicyst ) appears to be absent , but the endocyst is well developed .
When freshly formed , and for a considerable time afterwards , the endocyst is about 8 / x thick , but in very old cysts it has evidently undergone condensation , becoming thinner ( 1 to 2 / x ) , yellow , and less translucent .
The cyst envelope is plain , that is , not sculptured in any way .
The two individtials associated in each cyst give rise to gametes of apparently similar form , but we have not investigated the gametes , nor have we observed their fusion .
Each cyst soon contains numerous spores , among which are one or more masses of residual protoplasm , situated in the centre of the cyst .
Each spore is oval , and is 11 to 12 fx long and about 7 fx broad ( fig. 11 ) .
The epispore is closely applied to the endospore and exhibits two polar thickenings .
Each spore , when ripe , contains eight sporozoites and a small amount of axial residual protoplasm .
Cysts\#151 ; 1 to 14 in number , in different individuals\#151 ; occur lying freely in the mid-gut of the flea .
They cannot escape entire from the digestive tract , * We have occasionally seen small cysts , about 50 in diameter , but these did not contain spores .
Probably each cyst resulted from the encystment of a single individual , and none of them would have developed further .
The contents of two were examined , and were found to have degenerated .
Drs. J. H. Ashworth and T. Rettie .
[ Sept. 28 , as the lumen of the intestine is much too small to permit their passage ( fig. 10 ) .
When fully ripe , the cysts burst in the mid-gut , and their contained spores are discharged with the faeces of the host .
We have seen , in the midgut of an adult flea , a ruptured , yellow cyst , from which some of the spores ( containing fully formed sporozoites ) had escaped .
The spores are dropped by the host , and are ingested by the flea-larvae feeding among the in the nest .
We have several times found young trophozoites in the mid-gut of larvae which had been hatched only two or three days .
During the course of our experiments we procured a heavily infected series of adult fleas , by rearing them in the laboratory , from larvae which we placed in an old nest , in which a considerable number of infected fleas had been kept and had died .
Fourteen of these larvae were dissected , and all proved to be infected ; the rest were allowed to grow into adults , 11 of which were dissected , and were all found to contain Gregarines .
As six adult fleas from the original nest in which the larvae were found , proved on dissection to be uninfected , we think that we may reasonably attribute the occurrence of Gregarines in every example of our laboratory-bred series to the fact that the larvae had been reared in material which offered them a ready means of infection .
Ptipe spores , when placed in the fluid obtained by puncture from the midgut of larval fleas , soon exhibit changes .
The polar caps of each spore become swollen and detached , leaving the rest of the spore like a barrel open at both ends , from which the eight sporozoites escape .
Each sporozoite is , when extended , * about 9'5 to 105 / long , and 1*5 to 2 in diameter at its widest part ( figs. 12 , 13 ) .
It has a slender , finger-shaped , and mobile " rostrum , " the organ by means of which fixation to the gastral epithelium of the host is accomplished .
The protoplasm of the sporozoite is finely granular , and the nucleus is visible in the living condition .
On fixing and staining the sporozoites , the protoplasm was found to stain almost homogeneously , except at the base of the " rostrum , " where it was , in most cases , coloured rather more deeply .
The nucleus is large and vesicular .
Associated with its thick membrane are a few ( four to six ) small and deeply stained chromatin masses .
A karyosome is not present at this stage .
We have not been able to observe the attachment of the sporozoite to the epithelium of the larval gut , nor ( as stated on p. 33 ) to determine whether or not this is followed by an intracellular stage .
There is evidence , however , that the sporozoite , on fixation to the host , becomes more ovoid , that is , shorter but broader , for , on the wall of the mid-gut of a young larva ( 1-5 mm. long ) , we found a very young trophozoite , about 5 long and 3 broad .
Whether this was attached to , or was within , an epithelial cell * The body of the sporozoite can be bent into a curve or hook ( fig. 12 ) .
1912 .
] On a Greg arine present in Mid-Gut Ceratophylli .
37 could not be ascertained .
The karyosome , which was already developed in this young trophozoite , soon attains a considerable size .
The septum , dividing the protomerite from the deutomerite , appears later , when the organism has reached a length of about 30-40 During the early phases of growth in the larval gut , the trophozoite may relax its hold of the epithelium , and may , later , renew ' its attachment , but whether all the detached trophozoites succeed in refixing themselves is not clear ( see footnote , p. 34 ) .
Systematic Position .
The characters of the vegetative phases , cysts , spores , and sporozoites of the Gregarine described in the preceding pages agree closely with those of the genus Steinina , Leger et Duboscq , * which was defined in the following terms : " Polycystidee de la famille des Actinocephalides , caracterisee par un epimerite constitue d'abord par un court prolongement digitiforme et mobile et plus tard par un bouton aplati .
Developpement a phases fixees pouvant alterner avec des phases libres .
Kystes sans sporoductes , a sporocystes biconiques , fortement ventrus .
" The only feature in which the organism described by us deviates from this diagnosis is the shape of the spore , which is not strongly inflated .
However , the difference in regard to this character is so small that we do not hesitate to refer our Gregarine to the genus Steinina .
This genus has hitherto been represented by a single species \#151 ; S. ovalis ( Stein)\#151 ; recordedf from the intestine of the larva ( meal-worm ) of Tenebrio molitor .
Our specimens differ from this species in ( 1 ) the shape of the spores , which are less strongly inflated ; ( 2 ) the size of the spores , which are 11 to 12 plong and about 7 p broad ( in S. ovalis they are 9 long and 7'5 p broad ) ; and ( 3 ) the younger trophic phases are usually less elongate and more oval or spherical , and the sporonts ( " sporadins " ) are more pyriform .
These differences seem to us to be sufficient to justify the formation of a new species , for which we propose the name Steinina rotundata , for the specimens described in this paper .
Steinina rotundata , n. sp.\#151 ; Near S. ovalis , Leger et Duboscq , but the spores are larger and less strongly inflated than those of the latter .
In the younger trophozoites , the protomerite and deutomerite together usually form an oval or sub-spherical mass , but later the organism becomes more or less * ' Archiv f. Protistenkunde , ' 1904 , vol. 4 , pp. 352\#151 ; 354 , 2 figs. t See L6ger and Duboscq , op .
cit. , in which the earlier records are cited .
S. ovalis has also been recorded from the gut of the meal-worm by Kuschakewitsch ( 'Archiv f. Protistenkunde , ' 1907 , Suppl. vol. 1 , p. 203 ) and Pfeffer ( op .
cit. , 1910 , vol. 19 , p. 108 ) , and its cycle of development has been studied by Mavrodiadi ( ' Proces-verbaux Soc. Natural .
Varsovie , ' 1909 , vol. 21 , pp. 106\#151 ; 118 ) .
38 On a Gregarine present in Mid-Gut of Ceratophylli .
pyriform .
Adults solitary , except when association in pairs occurs preparatory to the formation of gametes .
Cysts spherical , 110 to 185 in diameter , without sporoducts .
Spores oval , 11 to 12 long , and about 1 fx broad .
Habitat.\#151 ; The mid-gut of certain species of bird-fleas of the genus Ceratophyllus .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
List of Reference Letters .
A. , anus ; Ep. , epithelium of mid-gut ; G. , gizzard ; Int. , intestine ; K. , karyosome ; M. , muscle-fibre ; M.G. , mid-gut ; M.T. , Malpighian tube ; N. , nucleus ; ( E. , oesophagus ; R. , rectum ; R.P. , rectal papilla .
All the figures relate to Steinina rotundata , nov .
sp. , from the mid-gut of Ceratophyllus styx , Rothsch .
Figs. 1 , 9 , and 13 are from stained preparations ; the rest were drawn from living specimens .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Section of a portion of the epithelium of the mid-gut of a young larva , 3 mm. long , to which a young trophozoite is attached .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Two later trophic phases , from the mid-gut of a young adult flea .
A exhibits the division into epimerite , protomerite , and deutomerite ; B was lying free in the cavity of the gut and was not differentiated into regions .
Figs. 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7.\#151 ; Trophozoites from an adult flea .
On dissection of the mid-gut these specimens became free from the gut-wall .
Note the varying form of the epimerite , the vacuolation of the karyosome in figs. 4 , 5 , and the denser chromatin-spherules in the karyosome of fig. 6 .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Almost full-grown adult ( sporont or sporadin ) , found attached to the gut-epithelium of an adult flea .
Note the magnification is only half that of figs. 3 to 7 and 9 .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; Section of a portion of the wall of the mid-gut of an adult flea , in the epithelium of which the epimerite of a well-grown trophozoite is deeply embedded .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Outline of the gut\#151 ; from the oesophagus to the anus\#151 ; of an adult flea and of its contained parasites .
Only the proximal portions of the Malpighian tubes are shown .
The five cysts contained fully formed spores .
The four trophozoites were similar in form to that shown in fig. 2 , B. Fig. 11.\#151 ; Outline of the wall of a spore .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; -A sporozoite , immediately after its liberation from the spore , drawn while living .
Note the slender , mobile " rostrum .
" The opposite end of the sporozoite was bent into the form of a hook .
Fig. 13.\#151 ; Sporozoites , from a preparation fixed with osmic vapour and stained with Leishman 's stain .
A , B , C , D , represent typical sporozoites ; those lettered E , F , G , H are less usual forms .
Ashworth \amp ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. B. Vol. 86.Plate J.H.A.and T.R.del .
West , Newman 11th .

