I. " 1 On the Alloys."-Part I. " The Specific Gravity of Alloys .
" By A. MATTH ; IESSEN , Ph. D. Communicated by Prof. WHEATSTONE .
Received May 17 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) Before commencing a research into the electric conductivity of alloys , the author deemed it requisite , as a preliminary step , to determinie their specific gravities ; and the methods employed and results obtained in this inquiry are givelu in the present paper .
The metals used were antimony , tin , cadmium , bismuth , silver , lead , mercury , and gold .
The silver and gold were obtained in a state of purity from the refiners , the other metals were purified by methods which are described .
The quantity prepared of each alloy was twenty grammes .
The fused alloys were cast in a form and very thin , to avoid internal cavities from crystallization .
Three separate determinations were made of their specific gravity , which , together with the mean result , are given in Tables .
In every case the alloy was recast at least three times before the first determination , and once again before each succeeding one .
The distilled water used in the weighing was first boiled and allowed to cool in vacuo , and the alloys were suspended in it by a fine platinum wire , except the soft amalgams , which were weighed in a tuibe similarly suspended .
Ini calculating the specific gravities , the weight of water displaced was corrected for the temperature , the unit in all cases being distilled water at 00 C. All the weighings were reduced to a vacuum , and a correction was made for the platinum wire which dipped in the water .
The numerical results are stated in three Tables , of which the first gives the specific gravities of the pure metals employed , and the temperature in Centigrade degrees ; the second gives the same of the alloys ; and the third exhibits the mean specific gravities found , and the specific gravities as calculated , -I , from the volume of the metals forming the alloy ; 2 , from their equivalent ; and 3 , from their weight .
From the last Table it appears that the alloys of antimony are greater in volume than the aggregate of the constituent metals , while those of bismuth , silver , and gold are less .
The following alloys expand greatly on cooling , viz. all those of bismruth-antimony , bismuthgold , and bisrnuth-silver , which were experimented on ; those of bismuth-tin , from Bi,3 Sn to Bi2 Sn , the rest of the series very slightly ; arid bismuth-lead , viz. Bi6 Pb and Bi4 Pb ( Bi2 Pb slightly ) , the rest apparently not at all .
Of the bismuth-cadmium series , Bi6 Cd and Bi Cd4 expand very slightly , the rest not at all .
The zinc-alloys are all so very crystalline that no results of value were obtained respecting them .
In making the determinations given in the paper , the author was assisted by Dr. M. HIolzmann and Mr. C. Long.

