An Account of some Experiments on Animal Heat .
By John Davy , M.D. F.R.S. Read February 17 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 590 .
] The experiments here detailed relate , in the first place , to the relative capacities of venous and arterial blood for heat ; secondly , the comparative temperature of these fluids in different parts of the body during life is attempted to be ascertained ; and thirdly , the author states those conclusions which he thinks may be drawn from his experiments .
In his first experiments he endeavours to discover the relative capacities by the times of cooling equal volumes of venous and arterial blood , regard being also had to the specific gravities of each .
When blood was taken from the jugular vein of a lamb , and after the fibrin had been separated from it by stirring with a wooden spatula , its specific gravity was found to be 1050 , that of arterial blood from the same lamb , similarly treated , being 1047 .
The quantity of each taken for experiment was the same , contained in the same vessel , and heated to the same degree .
An equal quantity of water in this vessel had cooled from 120 ?
to 800 in ninety-one minutes ; arterial blood cooled , through the same interval , in eighty-nine minutes ; and venous blood in eighty-eight minutes : and hence the author infers the capacity of venous blood to be to that of arterial as 92 to 93 7 , that of water being 100 .
By other experiments made on various mixtures of these fluids with each other at different temperatures , he estimates the proportion to be 93 to 93 7 .
In subsequent trials on the rates of cooling observed in blood that still contained its fibrin , Dr. Davy estimated the capacities of venous and arterial blood to be as 90 to 91 .
The next experiments were upon the proportional heat lost in a given time by mixtures of either kind of blood with water , due allowance being made , as before , for the difference of their specific gravities ( viz. 1050 and 1049 ) .
In this mode of trial the proportions were nearly reversed , the capacity of venous blood appearing to be 95-4 , whilst that of arterial was no more than 94-8 .
But the author observes , that these trials admit of less accuracy than the preceding ; and he would be inclined to consider the third set of experiments as most entitled to confidence .
Dr. Davy 's first experiments on the actual temperatures of venous and arterial blood in the living body , were made at the great vessels of the neck in lambs , sheep , and oxen ; and in each a difference was found from 1 ?
to 1 ?
, that of arterial blood being in all instances the greater of the two compared .
Since these results are at variance with the observations of Mr. Coleman and Mr. Cooper on the temperature of the two sides of the heart , Dr. Davy also tried the temperatures of these cavities , and found a difference of about 1 ?
; the left ventricle being in all instances warmer than the right .
In the author 's experiments on the temperature of different parts of the body , the most remarkable was with respect to that of the brain , which was found to be 1 ?
lower than that of the rectum , although this part was also at least 1 ?
lower than the right side of the heart , and the anterior part of the brain , was even 1 ?
or 2 ?
lower than the posterior .
These results , Dr. Davy remarks , are in direct opposition to those of Dr. Crawford in every respect ; since he found the capacity of arterial blood greater than that of venous .
He found no difference of temperature between the two sides of the heart ; and , in fact , the heat of all parts nearly the same .
They are , on the contrary , perfectly consistent with Dr. Black 's opinion , that animal heat is produced in the lungs ; and they are not inconsistent with the hypothesis , that animal heat is dependent on the nervous system .
In conclusion , the author adds some trials that he has made on the temperature of infants just born , which he found to be 20 inferior to that of adults ; but on the succeeding day , when respiration was more perfectly performed , he found , on the contrary , an excess of 1 ?
, agreeably to the fourteenth aphorism of Hippocrates .
END OF THE FIRST

