I. " ' On some of the Products of the Destructive Distillation of Boghead Coal."-Part I. By C. GaEVILLE WILLIAMS , Esq. , Assistant to Dr. ANDERSON , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received November 25 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) The paper , of which the following is a brief abstract , constitutes the first part of the author 's examination of the hydrocarbons con tained in boghead naphtha .
In it he gives the results of his experiments on that portion of the fluid which resists the action of monohydrated nitric and sulphuric acids .
HIe had previously stated the fact of his having obtained a substance possessing the composition and vapour-density of butylx , and had expressed a belief that he should succeed in isolating not only that radical , but also propyl , amyl , and caproyl .
The composition of the radicals varies so little , that to determine the boiling-points it was necessary to take the density of the vapour of all those fractions which distilled anywhere near their known boiling-points ; and in each case he regarded that fraction which gave the nearest result as representing the boilingpoint of the radical as obtained from the source mentioned .
Propyl presented itself under the form of a colouriless , very mobile fluid , having a pleasant odour , and boiling at 68 ?
C. At 18 ?
it had the very low density of 0'6745 .
Combustion gave results agreeing closely with the formula Cil]2 14=-4 vols .
, confirmed by a determination of the density of its vapour by GayLussac 's method , which gave 2'96 , theory requiring 2'97 .
Propyl had not been previously obtained .
Butyl from the Torbane-hill mineral distils at 119 ?
, and has a density of 0'6945 at 18 ?
; its analysis coincided with the formula C6 1-118 .
The vapour-density was found to be 3'88 , theory requiring 3'94 .
Amnyl distilled at 159 ?
, and had a density of 0'7365 at 18 ?
0 On analysis , numbers were obtained agreeing perfectly with the formula Cso fHl .
The vapour-density was found to be 4'93 ; theory requires 4'91 .
Caproyl boiled at 202 ?
; its density at 18 ?
was 0'7568 .
The results of analysis accorded with the expression C24 H26 , which indicates a vapour-density of 5'87 , while experiment yielded 5'83 .
The experiments detailed in the paper appear to demonstrate the * Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. viii .
p. 119 .
radical nature of the hydrocarbons , and to negative the assumption of their being homologues of marsh-gas .
The paper concludes with a description of a method , by which , where numerous vapour-density determinations are to be made , the necessity is avoided of refilling the balloon with water or mercury in order to determine the residual air .

