382 Mr. H. M. Vernon .
Effect of Environment [ Feb. 28 remains , as is admitted , to be experimentally tested ) , the observe^ phenomena imply a selective destruction in the one case , and not ia the other .
It is not contended that the law of frequency at various ages adopted in the report , is exact .
It is , however , hoped that the ap .
proximation is sufficiently exact to give numerical estimates of the quantities measured , which are at least of the same order as the quantities themselves , and for this reason it is hoped that the method adopted may prove useful in other cases .
III .
" The Effect of Environment on the Development of Echinoderm Larvae : an Experimental Inquiry into the Causes of Variation .
" By H. M. Vernon , B.A. Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1894 .
( From the Zoological Station , Naples .
) ( Abstract .
) The conditions of environment under which an organism develops are known to be of considerable influence in the production of variations .
It was thought to be of interest to determine by exact measurement the effects which such slight changes in the environ-mental conditions as might occur naturally would produce in the growth of some organisms .
The animal chosen was the larva or pluteus of the sea-urchin Strongylocentrotus lividus .
These larvae develop readily from artificial fertilisations , and they can , moreover , be obtained at all times of the year , irrespective of season-The method adopted was to shake pieces of the ovaries and testes of several sea-urchins in small jars of water , and then mix the two liquids .
After standing for an hour , portions of the water containing the impregnated ova were poured into jars holding 2 to 3f litres of sea water , and these were transferred to a large tank of running sea water .
The larvae were generally allowed to develop for eight days , as the aboral and oral arms reach their maximum length in this time .
The larvae were killed by the addition of corrosive sublimate to the water , and were then , after washing in distilled water , preserved in 70 per cent , alcohol .
They were mounted m glycerine and measured under the microscope , the body-length , t e aboral arm-length , and the oral arm-length being in each case measured .
The larvae were measured in sets of fifties , and the mea\#174 ; 8 taken .
The aboral and oral arm-lengths were calculated as percentage8 on the body-length .
In all 10,000 larvae were measured .
'life The effects of temperature on development were first studied .
on the Development of Echinoderm Larvae .
1895 .
] j found that if the ova were placed in water at about 8 ' or 25 ' 0 .
jfor an hour , or even for a minute , at the time of impregnation , the resulting larvae after eight days development were , on an average , 4-6 per cent , smaller than those impregnated at from 17 ' to 22 ' , though all the subsequent conditions of development were identical .
If kept at the abnormal temperature for only ten seconds during impregnation , the resulting larvee were only 1*7 per cent , smaller , probably because the time was too short for all the ova to become impregnated under the abnormal conditions .
Differences of temperature daring the course of development have in comparison a much slighter influence .
Thus larvae allowed to develop in water at 17 ' to 22 ' are only about 2 per cent , larger than those allowed to develop at 15-7 ' to 17 ' , or at 22 ' to 237 ' .
The time of the year when the artificial fertilisations are prepared has a very marked influence on the size of the larvae .
Thus , those obtained in the middle of August are about 20 per cent , smaller than those obtained in April , May , and October , whilst those obtained in June and July are intermediate in size .
This is probably due to the comparative immaturity of the ova and spermatozoa in the off-breeding season .
The salinity of the water has a great influence on the development .
Larvee allowed to develop in water containing 50 c.c. of distilled water per litre are 15 6 per cent , larger than those grown under normal conditions , and those in water containing 25 c.c. per litre 9 5 per cent , larger .
On the other hand , in water containing 150 c.c. of distilled water per litre they are 4*3 per cent , smaller .
In water more concentrated than the normal they remain practically unchanged , but larvee grown under normal conditions from ova impregnated in concentrated water are 1*6 per cent , larger .
It was thought to be of interest to determine the effects which the various colours of the spectrum have upon development , though these are not conditions of environment which occur in nature .
La.rvee allowed to develop in the blue light of copper sulphate solution are 4*5 per cent , smaller than the normal , and those in the violet-blue light of Lyons blue solution 7*4 per cent , smaller .
Those grown in the green light of nickel nitrate solution are 4*8 per cent , smaller , and those in red and yellow lights respectively 6*9 per cent , and 8 9 per cent , smaller .
The development of the larvee seems to be but little affected if it is carried out in absolute darkness , the size only being diminished by 1*3 per cent. Larvee grown in semi-darkness are apparently 2*5 per cent , larger than the normal .
The body-length of the larvee appears to be uninfluenced by the | number of larvee developing together in a given volume of water , if it be kept below 30,000 per litre .
The arm-lengths are , on the other and , considerably affected .
The aboral and oral arm-lengths of The Development ofEchinoderm Larvae .
[ Peb .
28 , larvae grown in water containing 4,000 per litre are respectively lo.* f and 15 9 per cent , shorter than of those in water containing 5oo ' I litre ; in water containing 17,500 per litre they are 25*9 and 23*3 IT cent , shorter , and in water containing over 30,000 per litre 53-0 43'2 per cent , shorter .
Certain products of metabolism exert a favourable influence on the developments of the larvae , and not , as would be naturally expected a harmful one .
Thus larvae allowed to develop in water containing 1 in 70,400 of uric acid are 12 2 per cent , larger than those grown in ordinary water .
It is only when the proportion of uric acid is in .
creased to 1 in 28,000 that an unfavourable influence is exerted the larvae being in this case 2'1 per cent , smaller than the normal , In water containing about 1 in 60,000 of urea the larvae are about 3 per cent , larger .
Again , the amount of carbonic acid gas dissolved in the water may be increased by some 18 per cent ; , so that it is only just insufficient to kill off the larvae entirely , and yet no diminution in the growth is observed .
On the other hand , sdme of the products of metabolism may produce a considerable decrease in the size of the larvae , for larvae grown in water in which other larvae had previously developed were 7"6 per cent , smaller than the normal ; Thus far the effedts of environuient on the body-length Only of the larvae have beeil mentioned .
As the arm-lengths were also measured , the effects upon them can also be determined .
As a rule ; the tissues of the arms seemed to be much more sensitive to environmental conditions than the tissues of the body , and considerable changes were frequently found to occur in them without any obvious Cause .
The conclusions to be drawn from these measurements are therefore not so unequivocal as from those of the body-length .
The most important point established is that one and the same change of environmental condition may frequently produce opposite effects on the arm and body-lengths .
Thus the body-lengths of larvro allowed to develop at temperatures above 22 ' are about 2 per cent , smaller than of those at about 20 ' , but the aboral and oral arms are respectively 10-8 per cent , and 8'5 per cent , longer .
Again , the body-length of larvae developed in diluted water is on an average increased by 9*1 per cent. , but the arm-lengths are decreased by 7'7 per cent , and 10'5 per cent. , or , as the arm-lengths are percentages on the body-lengths , they are practically not affected at ail .
Also the arm-lengths are not affected to the same extent by the same change of environmental condition .
Thus the ratio between the arm-lengths is 4 3 per cent , higher at temperatures above 22 ' than at those below 18 ' .
As the number of measurements made was so large , it was thought to be of interest to subject them to statistical examination .
It 'vas found that with the body-length and oral arm-length measurements Presents .
1895 .
] the deviations from the average occurred with a frequency indicated by the theoretical law of error .
The measurements of the aboral arm-length did not agree so well , possibly owing to dimorphism .
The relative probable error of the smaller larvae was greater than that of the larger ones , in the proportion of 63 to 57 .
As most of the smaller larvae were obtained in the summer months , with presumably not quite mature ova , it is probable that the variability in the size , as well- as the actual size of the larvae , is affected by the time of the year in which the fertilisations are made .
The variability is also affected by the temperature of development , it reaching a maximum at 18 ' to 20 ' .
The variability of the organs of echino-derm larvae is much greater than in the case of higher animals .
Thus the probable error of the body-length is 6'1 per cent. , of the aboral arm-length 113 per cent. , and of the oral arm-length 9 4 per cent. Presents , February 28 , 1895 .
Transactions .
Acireale:\#151 ; Accademia di Scienze , Lettere e Arti dei Zelanti .
Atti e Rendiconti .
" Vol. V. 8vo .
Acireale 1894 .
The Academy .
Buda-Pesth :\#151 ; Ungarische Geologische Gesellschaft .
Foldtani Kozlony .
Kotet XXIV .
Fiizet 11\#151 ; 12 .
8vo .
Budapest 1894 ; Jahresbericht .
1892 .
8vo .
Budapest 1894 .
The Society .
Cracow:\#151 ; Academy des Sciences .
Bulletin International .
Janvier , 1895 .
8vo .
Gracovie .
The Academy .
Frankfort-on the-Main :\#151 ; Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Abhandlungen .
Bd .
XVIII .
Heft 4 .
8vo .
Frankfurt a. M. 1895 .
The Society .
Leipsic:\#151 ; Astronomische Gesellschaft .
Vierteljahrsschrift .
Jahrg .
XXIX .
Heft 4 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1894 .
The Society .
Konigl .
Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Abhandlungen ( Math.-phys .
' Class ) .
Bd .
XXI .
No. 3 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1894 .
The Society Observations and Reports .
Berlin :\#151 ; Konigliche Sternwarte .
Astronomisches Jahrbuch .
1897 .
8vo .
Berlin 1895 .
The Observatory .
Madras :\#151 ; Government Observatory .
Results of Observations of the Fixed Stars made with the Meridian Circle in the Years 1883-87 .
4to .
Madras 1894 .
The Observatory .
Milan .\#151 ; R. Osservatorio Astronomico di Brera .
Osservazioni Meteorologiche .
1894 .
4to .
Milano .
The Observatory .
VOL , LV1I , 2 F

