]\gt ; Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 , In conclusion , the sections of the present paper may be summarised as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
The formal investigation of artificial double refraction in ( , olloidal solutions as due to a deformation of the medium of a in the packing of the colloidal particles .
2 .
The possibility that such deformation may be produced by mechanical stress as arising from the possession of a certain amount of idity by such solutions .
3 .
The analogy between the effects so produced and the double refraction due to a netic field .
On the Simple Group of Order 25920 .
By W. BURNSIDE , Received December Read nuary 2 To discuss the properties of a of finite order some concrete form of representation of the group is necessary , except perhaps in the simplest cases .
What are called the abstract defining relations ( viz. , a system of relations of the form , . . .
between a system of -commutative symbols , P ) , .
which are necessary and sufficient to ensure that only a finite number of distinct products can be formed from them ) no doubt contain implicitly in the most concise form all the properties of the ) roup .
estal)lish t properties , however , on this basis is not in general practicable .
For every roup there are an infinite variety of possible concrete ) resentations ; and in general for an adequate discussion of the properties of the group several of them have to be made use of .
In a limited class of cftses , , several groups of great importance in analysis , a esenlation its a group of spacecollineations is available .
In all such cases it would be expected that this form of representation , as affording scope for space-intuition , would certainly be one of those chosen for discussion .
Except , however , as regards the so-called groups of the regular solids , groups of rotations round a point , this has not been done .
It is osed in this melnoir to discuss the simple roup of order ) 1905 .
] On the Simple Group of Order 25920 .
entirely from the point of view of projective geometry .
The existence of a group of collineations of this order is not assumed , but is shown to follow from the existence of a remarkable configuration of points , lines and planes space .
This configuration itself arises naturally in connection with a much less complex group of space-collineations .
The method followed throughout is synthetical and constructive .
To avoid unduly burdening the earlier part of the memoir , it is assumed that the projective groups of finite order on the straight line have been established ( as they can be ) without appeal to analysis .
Further , the simpler properties of the permutationgroups of 4 , 5 and 6 symbols are taken as known .
The simple group of order 20920 has formed the subject of very many investigations ; but with a single exception the present memolr is not directly connected with any of them , except of course as regards subject-matter and the better known results .
The single exception is the inaugural dissertation of Herr A. Witting .
* In his work Herr Witting starts from the simple of order 25920 , defined as a roup of collineations by the analytical form of its five generating substitutions , and deduces from these premises the existence of the above-mentioned configuration of points , lines and planes .
As stated above , the course followed here is to establish independently the existence of the configuration by considerations of projective geometry , and to deduce the existence and properties of the group .
The Abelian group , of order 16 , of collineations of order 2 , and the group of order that contains it ately , with a discussion of which this investigation commences , are familiar in their analytical fornl to geometers in connection with a family of Kummer surfaces there possess 16 assigned nodes .
In particular the existence of the group of order has been made immediately obvious 1n a memoir of Professor Klein by using a suitably chosen system of line-co-ordinates .
For the purposes of this memoir it has , however , been necessary to establish the existence of these groups , and the nature of the configuration of 151inepairs which is invariant for them , directly from purely geometrical considerations , or the later developments would have been ible .
* A Witting , 'Uber eine Configuration in Raume auf welche die Transformationstheorie der Hyperelliptischen Functioneu fuhrt .
' Gottingen , 1887 .
I had no knowledge of Herr Witting 's work till after the whole of the present memoir had been written .
F. Klein , ' Mathematische Annalen , ' vol. 2 , p. 198 .
Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 I. On the Abelian 1 .
A projective transformation of order 2 of a straight line has two distinct fixed points ( real or imaginary ) .
If these are A and , any second projective transformation of order 2 of the line which is permutable with the prevlous one must permute A and , The most general group of projective transformations of the line whose operations are all of order 2 , and all permutable with each other , must be a .
This contains , besides identity , three operations of order 2 , such that each permutes the two fixed points of the other two .
If ; ; , are the three pairs of fixed points , each ABA'B ' , ACA'C ' , is harmonic ; and apart from projective transformations , the configuration of the three pairs of points is absolutely determinate .
Not more than two of the pairs can be real ; but the distinction between real and imaginary points is , for the present purpose , unessential .
A projective transformation of order 2 of space must leave either every point of a plane ABC and some one point not in the plane fixed ; or it must leave every point of two intel s lines AB and CD fixed .
In each case the transformation is completely determined by its fixed points .
In the first case , if is any point , and if OP meets the plane ABC in , then is changed into on OPo , so that OPop is armonic .
In the second case , if a line through meets AB and CD in and , then is into lying on , so that QPqp is harmonic .
In the first case any projective transformation which leaves and the plane ABC unchanged permutable with the iven transformation of ordel 2 .
In the second case any projective transformation which either leaves unchanged or permutes AB and CD is nutable with the iven transforn)ation .
If mations of the first kind ives ) are permutable , fixed point of each must be in the fixed the of the other ; so that A may be taken as the fixed , CDA as the fixed planes .
If a third perspective is pelmutable each of these , its fixed must be in , and its fixed plane must pass through AB .
Hence be taken as its fixed point , and as its fixed plane .
Then the ctive o which is the fixed } ) oint , and the fixed plane ( which is the duct of the three former ones ) , is permutable with each of them ; and it is obvious that no other cRll permutable with each of the four .
The products of these perspectives two and two are the three projective transformations of order 2 for which AB , ) ; AD , BC are the 1905 .
] On the Simple Group of Order 25920 .
pairs of fixed lines , and these , with the four perspectives and identity , constitute an Abelian group of order 8 , whose operations are of order 2 .
Now in any group of collineations of order 2 the number of perspectives , if any , must be half the order of the group ; and therefore , if the order of the group is reater than 8 , it can contain no perspectives .
2 .
I proceed then to consider the Abeiian , roups of collineations of order 2 which contain no perspectives .
If and L2 are the fixed lines of one of the collineations of such a group , every collineation of the boroup must either permute and L2 , or must leave each of them unchanged .
Moreover , the fixed lines of a collineation which leaves both and unchanged must meet both and L2 ; and the fixed lines of a collineation which permutes and meet neither of them .
Further , the only collineation , other than identity , of the group which leaves every point on unchanged , is that of which and are lines ; for a collineat , ion of order 2 which leaves every point on one line and just two points on some non-intersecting line unchanged is necessarily perspective .
Now it has been seen that the gl.eatest Abelian group of projective transformations of order 2 of a line is a ; hence the greatest Abelian group of collineations of order 2 which changes each of giyen non-intersecting lines into itself has order not exceeding 8 ; and the reatest such group which either permutes or changes into themselves two given non-intersecting lines has order not exceeding 16 .
That such a actually exists may be shown by the construction .
Let be any two non-intersecting lines , and on take three pairs of points ; ; , so that each ABA'B ' , BCB'C ' , CAC'A ' is harmonic .
Let and be the fixed lines of a tion of order 2 which permutes and , and denote by ; ; the points on into which this collineation changes ; ; Any collineation of order 2 ( not a perspective ) is completely specified by its two fixed lines ; so that may be used to denote the collineation of order 2 hich leaves every point of and of With this notation is clearly permutable with Aa : ; Aa ' , ; Bb , ; Bb ' , ; Cc , ; since the fixed lines of the six last written collineations meet both and Moreover , these six collineations are permutable among themselves ; in fact , Aa , , leaves the lines Aa ' and unchanged and permutes the pairs and , Bb ' and and and .
Hence the above seven collineations with identity form a set of eight permutable collineaLions each of Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 , which leaves both and unchanged .
Bub it is shown above that the order of an Abelian group of collineations of order 2 , which leaves and unchanged , cannot exceed 8 .
Hence , 1 ; ; ; Aa ' , ; Bb , ; Bb ' , ; Cc , ; constitute an Abelian whose operations are all of order 2 , for which each of the lines and L2 is unchanged .
This Gs does not contain which permutes and ; Aa ' and and and , and leaves unchanged Aa , .
Hence is not contained in the , and is permutable with eac of its operations .
Therefore and generate an Abelian , whose operations are all of order 2 and either permute or leave unchanged and .
The existence of the group is thus proved .
Returning now to the construction , the elements of it are the lines and the points ; in fact , from the other three points on are constructed by Jarmonic section .
If from these six points lines are drawn to nJeet L2 and , the points in they meet are .
Further , if Aa , meet in and , and if APap , are harmonic , then is Now by a suitable projective tion any three non-intersecting lines may be changed into , L2 , ; and by a subsequent transformation which leaves these three lines unchanged , any three points on may be changed into and B. Hence any two Abelian 's whose operations all collineations of order re within the general ooroup of collineations .
II .
of th 3 .
I consider now the configuration by the pairs of fixed lines of the 15 collineations , other than identity , contained such a .
Each line of any pair is unaltered by a , and the two lines are permuted by the other eight collineations up the .
Hence each line of a pair is met by both the lines of six other pairs , and is llot met by either of the lines of the eight pairs .
Consider two pairs , say and and , which do not intersect .
Such a pair of pairs cttn be chosen in 60 ways .
Both and L2 are unchanged for the collineations of a ; and both and are by the operations of another .
These two sub-groups of the have a in common .
If ; are the fixed lines of the collineations , other than identity , in this , each of them must meet , L2 , and .
Since and both leave , T2 , so also does the is the product of and 1905 .
] On the Simple Group of Order 25920 . .
Hence if and are the fixed lines of this collineation , the six pairs ; and ; ; lie on a quadric , the first three belonging to one system of generators and the last three to the other .
If meet in A and and in and then , as seen above , among the collineations of the which leaves both and L2 , is that for which and are the fixed lines .
Hence the fixed lines of the remaining nine collineations ( which do not lie on the quadric considered ) are the pairs of lines which join across the intersections of any one of the pairs ; with any one of the pairs The quadric in question is completely determined by any pair of pairs that lie on it .
Of these there are six , while it has been seen that out of the 15 pairs a non-intersecting pair of pairs can be chosen in 60 ways .
Hence there are just 10 quadrics o11 which the 15 pairs of lines lie in sets of six .
Moreover , the 15 pairs of lines form the complete intersections of the quadrics in the sense that any two of the quadrics intersect in two pairs of the lines .
Thus , of the pairs of lines which do not intersect and the quadric considered contains two .
There are therefore three other quadrics which contain and .
So there are three which contain and , and three others which contain and nilally , each of the other nine quadrics must contain either and , or and , or and .
The considered must therefore intersect any one of the remaining nine in one pair from and and and , and one pair from and and and 4 .
If instead of starting with a non-intersecting pair of pairs such as and and , one considers the intersecting pair and L2 , and , the which leaves unchanged each of the four lines consists , with identity , of and their product .
The fixed lines of their product are the lines joining across the intersections of and ; so that the three pairs of fixed lines of the hree collineations which , with identity , cunstitute , are the pairs of opposite sides of a tetrahedron .
Siuce there are six collineations which leave both and L2 , and two of these occur with and in the in question , there are two other tetrahedra each of which have and for a of opposite sides ; and therefore iu all 15 such tetrahedra can be formed from the 15 pairs of lines .
Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 , 5 .
Another remarkable property of the 15 pairs of lines is that just six sets of five pairs each may be selected from them so that no two pairs of any set of five intersect ; thus and and , and the three pairs which join across the intersections of and with and and and T2 respectively form such a set of five .
It is , in fact , obvious that no one of the last three pairs intersects and L2 or and Call and the lines which join across the intersections of and with and , and and those which join the intersections of with and .
If and P2 intersect and , then vould leave unchanged and , so that their point of intersection , i.e. , the point of intersection of and would be a fixed point for But the only fixed points on for are the points where and meet , so that the point of intersection of and is not a fixed point for this collineation .
No two of the set of five lines in question then intersect , and they are the only set containing of which this is true .
Now there are 60 non-intersecting pairs of pairs , from each of which such a set of five will arise , and since any one such set may arise from any one of pairs contained in it , the number of sets must be six .
III .
On 6 .
I on now to determine the collineations which leave this set of 15 pairs of lines invariant .
It may be first noted that the only collineations which change each pail into itself are thost , of the .
In fact , the square of any such collineation transforms line of each pair into itself , and since each pair is met by six others , it must transform every point of each line of each pair into itself .
It is , therefore , the identical transformation , and the collineation itself is , therefore , one of order 2 .
But it has been shown that all eations of order 2 , which permutable with each collineation of the , must be contained in the It remains only to consider those tions which permute some or all of the pairs themselves , and I shall first determine those that permute six pairs lying on one of the 10 quadrics themselves , say the pairs ; ; ; and ; ; Any projective transformation which permutes these themselves necessarily permutes the renlaining nine pairs ( which join across the points 1905 .
] On the Simple Group of Order 25920 .
of intersection of the six ) among themselves , and also transforms the quadric containing the six pairs into itself .
Now the transformations of space , which leave a quadric invariant , consist of\mdash ; ( i ) Transformations which leave every one of the first set of generators , while they transform the second set exactly as the points on a line are transformed by the projective transformations of the line ; combined independently with those which leave every one of the second set of generators , and ilarly transform the first set ; and ( ii ) The previous set of transformations compounded with a transformaLion of order 2 which permutes the two sets enerators .
The most general projective group on a straight line , for which three airs of points AA ' , BB ' , and CC ' , such that ABA'B ' , BCB'C ' , CAC'A ' harmonic , are permuted among themselves , is the well-known )rdinarily called the octahedral group .
Hence the most general group for which the three pairs and and and are permuted among themselves , while each of the six ines is unchanged is a .
Similarly there is a each of the lines unchanged and permutes pairs and and and themselves .
is obvious , hat the and have no common collineations except identity , and that 'lvery collineation of is permutable with every one of Suppose that and are the lines which join across the intersections with , and and those that join across the intersections with passing through the intersection of and through the intersection of and .
Then and do lot intersect either of the pairs and , or and Hence ermutes L and , and also and ; and therefore leaves and unchanged .
Hence and are intersecting pairs .
Let and intersect in , and consider the perspective of order 2 of which is the fixed point and the plane of and the fixed plane .
If meets in , then divide harmonically the two points in which is met by and which same .
Hence the perspective permutes with , and with .
Similarly it permutes with and with .
The perspective in question , therefore , replaces the two pairs and , and and by the two pairs and , and and .
Hence it replace the pair and , which forms with each of the pairs and or and a harmonic range on any transversal , by pair and , which is similarly related to and , and and The perspective therefore permutes the two sets of , enerators on the quadric , and with the and enerates a , which permutes the six pairs under Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 , consideration among themselves .
This group of collineations , which leaves one of the 10 quadrics , permutes the remaining 9 transitively themselves .
In fact it obviously contains collineations which change any one of the intersecting pairs of pairs , such as , L2 , , into other ; and the nine intersecting pairs of pairs are , as shown above , the intersections of the invariant quadric with the other nine .
There is a similar which leaves any one of the other quadrics invariant .
Hence , since the 10 quadrics are transitively permuted by the roup of collineations for which the 15 pairs of lines are invariant , the order of this group is not less than Every ] lineation which leaves the pairs invariant must permute among themselves the six sets of five non-intersecting pairs that can be formed from them .
Each pair occurs in two and only of these sets .
Hence every collineation which leaves each of the six sets must leave each of the 15 pairs unchanged , and it is shown above that the only collineations for which this is the case are of the .
The is therefore a selfconjugate -group of the roup of tions for which the 15 pairs of lines is invariant ; and in respect of this roup the group is isomorphic with a roup of permutations of six symbols .
Now and 720 is the order of the ) ( reatest ( roup which is simply isomorphic with a permutation group of six synlbols .
Finally , therefore , the order of the greatest group of for hich the 15 pairs of lines forms an invariant uration is .
Theroup contains a self-conjugate Abeliau sub-oroup of order 16 , whose operations are of order 2 ; and the fact - in respect of this self-conjugate sub- boroup is simply isomorphic with the symmetric group of ) 7 .
If , in addition to collineations , dualistic transformations of space itre admitted , the total roup ations for which the configuration of 15 pairs of lines is invariant , is a of order 23040 , constituted by .
with the boroup of collineations a set of dualistic transformations .
Aleciprocation with respect to the dric c , L2 , , and is , in , a dualistic transformation of order 2 , which leaves unchanged each of the lines of the six pairs on the quadric and permutes ) lines of each of the rem nine .
This transformation , combined with the ives a , Abelian , and all its operations of order 2 , for which each of bhe 15 pairs is invariant .
The 16 dualistic transformations of this obtained by each of the 1905 .
] On the Gronp of 25920 .
collineations of the with the above reciprocation .
The nine transformations that arise by combining the whose fixed lines do not lie on the first quadric with the are immediately seen to be reciprocations with respect to the other nine quadrics .
The remaining six transformations arise by combining ; with the reciprocation .
Now , the effect of , followed by the reciprocation , is to permute the lines forming each of five pairs , viz. , and and and the lines joining across the intersections of and L2 with and and , TI and T2 respectively ; and to leave each of the lines forming the other 10 pairs unchanged .
The set of five pairs just written is one of ' the six sets of five , considered in S5 .
Hence , each of the remaining six transformations permutes the lines of each pair of one of the six sets of five , and leaves the lines of the remaining 10 pairs .
This is contained self-conjugately within the group of space transformations which permutes the 10- pairs among themselves ; so that , as stated above , the order of this total group must be 23040 .
IV .
On 8 .
The symmetric group of six s.ymbols has bwo distinct sets of roups , isomorphic with the yroup on five symbols , of order 60 .
A sub-group of one of these sets permutes the six symbols transitively , one of the other set leaves one symbol unchanged and permutes the other five transitively .
Hence the , which contains the Abelian self-conjugately , has two distinct sets of sub-groups order , each of which contains the , and in respect of it is isomorphic with the alternating roup on five symbols .
A froup of one set permutes transitively theInselves the six sets of five non-intersecting pairs , which can be formed from the fixed lines of the 15 collineations of order 2 contained in the A roup of the other set leaves one of the set of five pairs unchanged , and permutes the remaining five .
It is a of this second set that is now to be considered in some detail , as up to the uration of points , lines , and planes .
Let be the five non-intersecting pairs which are permuted by every collineation of the selected .
Every collineation of is completely ) ecified by permutation which it rives of these 10 lines .
For if the collineations and the same pel11lutaion , then would leave each of the 10 lines , and therefore , also , each of the fixed lines of the remaining 10 collineations of order 2 of the unchanged ; and it has been seen above that such a collineation leaves every point of space Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 , The permutations corresponding to are , , , , ; and hence those corresponding to the other 10 collineations of order 2 of the are , , , , , .
A sub-group of order 60 , isomorphic with the alternating group on five symbols , must give all the even permutations of the five pairs of non- intersectors .
Hence an operation of order of such a sub-group leaves each line of wo pairs unchanged ; i.e. , as a permutation of the 10lines , it leaves four fixed and permutes the other six in two cycles of three each .
Now , if the sub-group of order 60 permuted the 10 lines transitively , an operation of order 3 to it would only leave one ; and therefore it must permute them intransitively in two sets of five each .
Let ; ; be the two sets for one roup G of order 60 .
Then the permutations of the 101ines given by the collineations of the , are formed by taking any even permutation of the lines of one set and combining it with the corresponding even permutation of those of the other set .
In particular the is generated by , ; and its tetrahedral sub-group which leaves and unchanged by and .
Further , since the Abelian and the have no collineation , except the identical one in common , the 960 collineations of the group are given by any collineation of the with any collineation of the 1905 .
] On the Simple Group of 25920 .
It may further be noticed that since the has no self-conjugate roup of index 2 , no collineation of order 2 belonging to it can be a )erspective . .
On the Space-ConJiguration .
9 .
The line is invariant for the roup G of the Abelian , which onsists of 1 , , , , , , for the above tetrahedral , generated by , 'hese generate for which is i1lvariant ; and this contains a , generated by , , yhich on obviously sets up a tetrahedral projective group .
Hence the , for which is invariant , is multiply isomorphic with a roup , and sets up on a group of projective transformations wlIich ontains a tetrahedral group .
But the only finite group of projective ransformations of a straight line which a tetrahedlal group , and is imply or multiply isomorphic with a tetrahedral group , is the tetrahed1al roup itself .
Hence the group of projective transformations on , which the that leaves invariant sets up , is a tetrahedral group .
This tetrahedral roup of projections on has four sub-groups of order 3 ; and for each there a pair of fixed points .
If these pairs are ; ; ; ; then , uitably one from each pair , , are a set of points which are ransitively permuted among themselves by the for which is [ lvariant ; as also are .
Both and are therefore invariant or a sub-group of order 24 ; and each is therefore one of a set of 40 points yhich are transitively permuted by the .
The plane through and one of a set of 40 planes which are transitively permuted by the , and also is the plane and The set of 40 points arising by the collineations of the group from , and he set of 40 planes arising from , are the points and planes of the uration .
10 .
No four lines , such as to four distinct pairs lie on a quadric .
For a permutation of the 10 Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 , lines Jiven by one of the collineations of the roup , it follows that and therefore also , Q2 , lie on the , atne quadric , which is not the case .
There are therefore just } } lines ; say and ; and the configuration of the five becting pairs , as given in S5 , that neither nor neets L , or The collineation represented ] ) changes this pair of lines , and therefore each of them , into itself .
The point in which meets is therefore a fixed point for the collineation ( P2 ) .
Similarly the points in which meets respectively fixed points for the collineations , , , and the four points are permuted transitively among themselves by the tetrahedral which these lineations of order 3 generate .
They must therefore belong either to the set of 40 points )hich arise from or to the set which arises from .
But the points in and meet are the fixed points of lie on , one of which belongs to the set , and the other to the set .
Ifence , may be taken to contain four points of the set , and to tain foul ) oints of the set the greatest roup of the for which is invariant is the above tetrahedral group .
Hence is one of 80 lines per1nuted by the , and on each of them there lie just four points of the set .
These 80lines the set of 90lines belonging to the figuration , each of which passes through four of the 40 points .
Moreover , the 80 lines fall into a set of pairs , which are permuted by .
Such a pair is formed by and the line intel secting into which is changed by the collineation .
For this pair is invariant for the sub-group formed by combining the tetrahedral roup for which is invariant with the ding collineatiou of order 2 , The 90 lines thus fall into pairs which are permuted by the roup .
Through each of the 40 points passes just one of the lines , , .
Moreover , the remaining 80 lines , permuted transitively by the each .
of the 40 points which also permuted transitively , 8 of the 80 must pass each oint of the 40 points .
Hence , in all , just 9 of 90lines pass through of the 40 points .
It may be further noticed that ( and efore any one of the 80 lines arising from it ) contains llune the points of the ' set .
For these adl lie on original lines , the only points which meets belong to he set .
1905 .
] On the Simple Group of Order 25920 .
Further , just 32 of the 80 lines arising from meet , eight passing each of the four -points on .
No one of the eight -lines through a given -point on meets ; and each meets three of the remaining lines , , L2 , , P2 , , Q2 , , B2 chosen from different pairs .
These eight lines contain 32 points of the -set , and of these , 24 lie on the eight lines of the -set which pass through a given -point on Hence there arejust eight out of the -points lying on , such that the lines joining them to an -point on , are not -lines .
Since the eight lines are permuted transitively by the group of collineations which leaves invariant , these eight points must lie one on each of the eight lines .
Hence , if is an -point , and , four -points Jying on one of the 10lines , which does not form a pair with that containing ; then of the four lines , three are -lines , each containing two other -points , and the fourth is not an -line .
11 .
Suppose now that , are the -points lying on , and that is an assigned -point lying on .
The plane contains the -lines to three out of ; say .
Each of these contains two other -points ; say , on on are .
These six points are the intersections of with .
Since no -line intersects both lines of an original pair , it may be taken that lie respectively on Of the lines joining to , two are , say .
Each contains two other -points , not lying on , or , and not being .
Hence , if passes through , then must pass through and an -point not belonging to the previous six .
This point must , therefore , lie on ; and hence the eight points in which meets , are all -points .
It foIlows immediately that this plane contains eight -lines : for through each of the eight -points in the plane , which does not lie on , three such lines can be drawn , and the eight points lie three by three on these lines .
Also through a set of four planes can be drawn which contain the -points that do no lie on or , the four planes through and the four -points on remaining seven , These four planes are permuted transitively by the sub-group of order 96 for which is invariant and therefore , from any one of them , , a set of 40 planes arise which are permuted transitively by the It remains to consider the point in which meets .
Since it Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 , is one of four points permuted by the vroup for which L2 is invariant , it must be an -point , or an -point .
If it were an -point , the collineation which permutes LI and L2 must permute a2 with one of the -points on , say cring the plane ( which contains ) into the plane and leaving the line unaltered .
But leaves every point on and M2 unaltered and , therefore , leaves the points in which meets and M2 unaltered .
Hence the line must coincide with Similarly the lines must each contain one of the pairs ; .
This is certainly impossible , for it implies that the 12 -points of ( other than ) , which have been proved to lie four by four on 9 straight lines , also lie three by three on four concurrent lines .
Hence must be an -point ; and each of the 40 planes arising from contains just 12 of the 40 -points .
These 12 points lie four by four on nine lines , viz. , the -lines in the plane , and the one line in the plane which belongs to the original 10 , in other words the nine out of the 90lines which lie in the plane contain the 12 out of the 40 points four by four .
The four of the 40 planes which pass through each contain just -points other than those on .
Hence , in all , the four anes contain 36 of the 40 points .
The four renaining ones must be Inuted a themselves by the collineations of the tetrahedral sub-group of for which is invariant .
But the only sets of four -points which are pernnlted by this group are those on and its pair .
Hence the four planes of the set through contain all the -points except those on They are , therefore , determined by the planes and -points on any other -line -hich neither nor it been seen that the -lines in any of these planes intersect only in -points .
Further , an -line which does not lie in one of these plaJles does not intersect at all .
Hence the 40 ints form the complete intersection of the 80 -lines , and therefore also of the whole set of 90lines of ) uratiou .
With each of the 40 -points one of the 40 planes may be associated in a defin ite manner .
Let be the fixed points of a collineation of order 3 of the on , and consider and tho plane ) .
If is an -line it must meet in a ) oint s which does not lie on the four planes through which contain all the 40 points ] ) that lie on , the pair of , lleet fonr rent lines through .
But of the 12 -points in not more th can lie on four concurrent lines .
Hence of the 12 -points on , at least three do lie on the four planes through which contain all the } ) those of .
In other words lies on .
Sillilarly the pair of each -line , which passes through , lies on .
Also , and lies on .
Hence the pair to each 1905 .
] On the Simpte Group of Order 25920 .
one of the nine lines through , belonging to the set of 90 , lies on .
The point in which meets is not an -point , because the 4 of the 40 planes which contain meet in points which are not -points .
Hence the -points on are distinct from the -points on the nine lines which .
Now , there -points on , and -points on ' the nine lines through .
The nine -lines in and the nine through ( their pairs ) thus contain the whole system of 40 points .
Since the planes and points are permuted transitivcly by the group 12 of the 40 planes pass through each one of the 40 points and contain the nine lines through it in sets of three , four of the planes passing through each of the lines .
12 .
The complete specification of the configuration that ) established is as follows:\mdash ; It contains 40 points , 90lines ( forming 45 pairs ) and 40 planes .
Through each point there pass nine of the lines and 12 of the planes .
two of these 9lines , one of the 12 planes passes , containing a third line : so that the planes contain the lines three by three , and the lines are the intersection of the planes four by four .
In each plane lie 12 of the points and nine of the lines , evely two lines intersecting in one of the points through which a third line passes , so that the points lie four by four on the lines and the lines pass three by three through the points .
On each line lie four of the points , and through each live there pass four of the planes .
The four planes through a line contain all the points except the .
which lie on a second line which forms a pair with the iven one and through the four points on the line there pass all planes except the four which pass through the same second line .
Further , no two of the lines intersect in a point other than one of the 40 points ; and no two lines lie in a plane other than one of the 40 planes .
Moreover , with each of the 40 points may be associated a particular one of the 40 planes , so that the pairs of the nine lines which pass through the point all lie in the plane ; while at the same time the nine pairs contain the whole of the 40 points , and the whole of the 40 planes pass through lines belonging to the Iline pairs .
The configuration is invariant for a , which permutes the points and planes , each transitively , while it permutes the lines in two nsitive sets of 10 and 80 ( 5 and 40 pairs ) .
VOL. LXXVII.\mdash ; A. Prof W. Bul.nside .
[ Dec. 15 , for tlw Invaricmt . .
There are just ] -lines , which meet neither or L2 , and they foll eight pairs .
Any one of the 16 may be denoted the symbol ; , four lines , from the original } , which it meets ; and being denoted the symbols and .
the pair , three other pairs ; arise by the collineations ; \mdash ; , constitute a sub-group of order 4 of the .
These pairs are ' .
Similarly , from and , \mdash ; by the collineations of the same roup , three other pairs arise , another set of 4 .
No two lines of the first set of four pairs ( or of the second set ) intersect .
In fact , if inte ] sect , it must be in a point of or of .
But the -points of both and are pel.muted by the collineation which changes into On the othel hand , since the pairs of the two sets include all the -lines which intersect nor while contains four -points .
each of the 32 -points that do not lie on or must lie on two of the 16 lines , and therefore each line of the first set must intersect four lines of the second , one from pair .
Hence the two sets of four pairs are the only sets of foul pairs of -lines which contain all the ) -points not lying on or L From the five pairs and the 40 pairs of -lines , then , just three sets of five pairs can be chosen so as to irlcltde and , and to contain the wholc of the 40 points .
These ; ; ; ; ; 2 ; ; ; ; ; : with of the } , just two formed each with of -lines , can bc ucted H to contain the whole of oints .
gives in all 11 sets , ( pairs the 1905 .
] On the Si of Order ) , such that each set contains the 40 points , ) one pair of each set ( all five pairs of one cQet ) belongs to the original five pairs .
14 .
The five pairs of -lines , , are non-intersectors .
For if intersect , it be in a point of or QL or , and this would mean that two of these lines lie in a plane .
These five pairs therefore contain the whole of points .
also do the five pairs derived fron1 the by the collineation of the , viz. :\mdash ; , Now a yiyen S-line meets just 28 other -lines and four of the lines ; and its pair meets the pairs of these .
Hence there are just 11 pairs of -lines and one pair of the original 10lines , which neither of a iven intersect .
pair , these 12 pairs are those which occur in the preceding sets of five , and in the set ( already obtained ) .
' ' In each of these sets of five pairs the four pairs after the first contain all -points except those lying on and \amp ; JJenoe any two pairs taken from different sets ( excluding and are necessarily intersecting pairs .
three sets ooiven are then the only sets of five pairs , including and which contain a1140 points .
Combining this with the immediately preceding result , it follows that the 4 pairs of lines of the configuration , just three sets of five pairs each cnn formed , so as to include a iven pair and to contain the whole 40 points .
total number of such sets is therefore .
Of the 27 sets , 11 contain members from a iven set , including the set itself , and emaining 1 have no llembers the iven set .
of these sets of iive pairH has the property the five pairs of lines forming it are the fixed lines of five mutually permutable eations order 2 .
will first be proved for one of sets of five containing au inal pair , say the set , , , Prof W. Burnside .
Each of the pair and is invariant a hedral sroup of the , which contains the three collineations of order , , : and the collineation of order 3 , The permutations of the 10lines the iven ]esev collineations are , AB this it that cannot lie on a ladric .
; , in virtue of the collineation , it woudd also contain and the 40 ) oints do not lie on a .
On the other hand , Qince the fixed lives of A. and , meet I , the four latter are boenerator of one system of a quadric , of which the fixed lines of and enerators of the other stelu .
usual , the fixetl lines of , 1 and AB , by , B2 ; and must meet both and since the collineation A leaves and 1 unchanged .
Similarly and meet both and ; while ) lleeC and ince the collineation aves every enerator of the first system unaltered , hile it permutes with and with lr the points of in tersection of ith , and of with U ) must lie on a generator of the first system .
the collineation leaves the quadric and every enerator of the first set unchanged , while it pe1mutes yclically the pairs ; ( A1 of the other system .
It also ) ermutes cyclically the pairs , U2 : .
Hence , U. , ; must join across the intersections of ) ; ) common pair of of the first syste1n .
Hence ( is permutable with ulable a tbemselves .
Hence are mutually 1905 .
] On the Group of Order 25920 .
permutable .
Now from their mode of formation the pairs ; ; are permuted among themselves by the collineations of the group Heuce ] , are all mutually permutable ; and since permutes the lines of each pair it is permutable with of them .
Consider now the plane through and an -point on .
The remaining -points on it are the points where it is met by .
The collineation leaves this plane unchanged , since it leaves every point on .
Ioreover it permutes the airs ; , U2 ; .
Hence it permutes the -points in which met by the four pairs .
permutes the -points in the planes being the other -points on .
Further lves unchanged the eight -points on and .
Hence permutes among themselves the 40 -points ; and the same is true for the collineation of order 2 , whose fixed lines are any one of the 45 pairs .
15 .
Consider next any one of the sets of five line-pairs which contain ' all points .
If is any line pair of the 45 , changes the five line pairs in question into another set of five which contain the 40 points .
By suitably choosing it may be ensured that one of the new belongs to the ( five pairs .
Then ) the preceding paragraph the five collineations of order 2 of which the five new pairs are the fixed lines are 1nutually permutable ; and therefore the same is true for the five pairs frolll which they were transformed .
The five collineations of order 2 , of the five pairs are the fixed lines , generate an Abelian .
In fact , in an Abeliail , five collineations of order 2 cannot be chosen so that all their fixed lines are non-intersectors ; and , on the other hand , there is no Abelian of collineations of order 2 .
The Abelian is contained self-conjugately in a , for which the set of five pairs in question , and the 40 points of the configuration , are invariant .
There are thus just 27 which the configuration is invariant .
Each of these leaves one set of five variant , and permutes the in two sets of 10 and 16 .
In fact , the for which the set of five pairs is invariant must permute among them'f ; elves the set of 10 ( S 13 ) , each of which contains one of the five .
Now the permutes the five pairs , , transitively , and the collineation clearly permutes the two sets ( S 1 ; ; ; ; ; an ; : ; Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 , Hence these 10 seth are permuted transitively by the } The sets are permuted transitivelv the ) elian Ghich is contained .self-conjugately in the ) in question .
In fact , the 16 sets into which the set of S14 , viz. :\mdash ; , , , changed by the collineation .
of the original are all distinct .
sets of five pairs then are permuted transitively by the greatest group of collineations for which the configuration is ariant , so the order of this roup m be equal to or a multiple of 27.16.60 .
Now collineation which leaves each of sets must also leave of the line-pairs certainly the identical collineatiou ; that which leaves every poiut of space unchanged .
collineatiou leaves a single set unchanged ntain the esponding Abelian , self-conjugately , and must be a sub-group of the of S C. The only rroup of this greater than containing the .
for which the line-pairs are invariant , is wlnch in respect of the Abelian , is isomorphic with the roup of five bols .
For ] , it may be readily verified that the points called and roup of tran .
mations elfected on the for hich L is invariant , the octohedral and the edral b oup ) , that is one of a set of 80 points by the the is the greatest group collineations for oints a set of five-lines-pairs is invariant .
It follows , theleforc , the of of collineationb for which the configuration iant is ) 16 .
It be anticipated if in addition to collineations dualisti anhformations were admitted , the order ot roup f which the connration is ariant old I doubled , , in fact , the case .
As in S 7 , an rocation Ject to the containing ' leaves each of lines unaltered , pernluteb each of the , : the , of S is contained in a which permu tes the , '-pointq with , and to which lineation that permutes } } ith bf with with with and vitll p The ) collineation is a \ldquo ; tation ( of lines .
, is dualistic tfrlnalio is with tion ( .
, latter ) of two euel a , I 1905 .
] On the Simple Group of 25920 .
of the quadric containing , L2 , to the system opposite to , unchanged .
Of these one , say , meets in an -point .
Now the dualistic transformation changes the point of intersection of and into the plane containing and ] ) .
The point of intersection of and is one of the 40 points of the uration ; and the plane and , through M2 an -point on , is one of the 40 planes .
The ration , therefore , is inval.iant for the dualistic transformation .
VII .
of th lrith 1 The identification of the of collineations thus al.rived at a known roup is readily effected from a consideration of the sets oi pairs , formed from the 45 pairs of lines of the collineation which are permuted by the collineations of the group .
For this purpose a rather more convenient notation for the pairs is introduced .
ny pair is , in fact .
adequately represented by such a symbol as\mdash ; , where of the five letters either one or four are zero , while the others are either 1 or 2 .
Thus , with this notation , the pair would be repl.esented either by or ; while the pair is represented either by or .
Either form is from the other by ; each of the numbers by 2 and then reducing mod-3 ; and there is no risk of confusion veen them .
With this notation the sets of five are iven in the following table .
The first11 are those which have a common element with the first , constructed as in ; and the remaining 16 are those .
no ) ) element with the and formed by carrying out the operations of the , for which each pair of the first set is on any one of the 16 , such as that given at the of S14 .
Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 10- , 00001 11110 11220 00001 11120 11210 01000 01000 10112 10121 00100 ] 11022 00100 11012 11021 00010 11101 11202 09010 11102 11201 01111 ] 11011 01111 20111 21011 01112 10112 11012 01112 12021 01221 10221 11021 01221 10112 02111 20111 1022 02111 10111 12011 01212 10121 12021 1101 01211 10122 21011 01211 10211 11011 01122 12011 01122 11022 01121 10212 12012 01121 10121 11021 00010 01212 01221 01211 02111 12110 '1 11210 12210 these 27 sets 45 triplets such as abc can be formed , each consisting of the three sets of five which ) ntai one of the 4.5 .
These triplets are\mdash ; , bt ?
; ; the ttel S denote the 27 sets of five as in the table .
eollineation of the ooroup permutes the 27 sets , and therefore ) ives a permutation of the 27 , and these permutations must be as also 1905 .
] On the Simple Group of Or 25920 .
to permute the 45 triplets among themselves .
But in this form the rroup presents itself in connection with the 27 lines on a cubic surface .
The earliest investigation of the group connected with this problem is due to M. Jordan .
* M. Jordan shows that if the letters , ( the letternotation has been chosen to ( with his ) denote the 271ines on a cubic surface , then the triplets of the preceding set give the 45 triangles which can be formed from them .
He further shows that the most general group of permutations of the 27 letters for which the set of triplets is invariant , is a group of order , which contains a single sub-grcup ( necessarily self-conjugate ) of order 25920 , and that this latter group is a simple group . .
The of collineations for which the configuration of points , lines , and planes is invariant is therefore a simple isomorphic with the known simple group of the same order on which the determination of the lines on a cubic surface depends .
of the 18 .
The collineations of order 2 whose fixed iines are the pairs of lines of the configuration , form a single conjugate set of collineations in the ; for the group contains collineations which any one of the 27 sets of five into any other , and in a , for which one set of five is invariant , there are tions changing any one pair of the five into any other .
Any one of these 45 collineations has been seen to be permutable with just 12 others , and the product of two such permutable collineations A and is another collineation I of order 2 .
The fixed lines of this collineation lie on the quadric which contain the fixed lines of A and B. But it follows , from the construction of the -lines , that no three pairs of lines chosen from the can lie on a quadric .
Hence I cannot be conjugate to A. Suppose now that the product of two other permutable collineations and of the set of were I. Then the fixed lines of I would lie on two quadrics containing respectively the fixed lines of and of , D. There would therefore be two lines meeting these fixed lines , which is not the case .
Hence I is one of a set of ) collineations of order 2 ; in fact , there are collineations of the form AB , and I just twice , , in the forms AB and BA .
Consider next two collineations of the 45vhich are not permutable , say those of which and or , X are the fixed lines .
Denote them by and X , and the points of intersection of des titutions , Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. and X by .
Both and X leave the planes unchanged .
Hence LX leaves evely point of unchanged .
must into another -line through in the plane , and similarly X changes into another -line in .
But there is only one other such line ( S 12 ) .
Hence XLX or LX is a collineation of order : .
If denotes XLX , then this eollineation of orcler can be written in the three .
Suppose that were other collineations of the , such ; then both and X ' ange ( into itself , so that ould meet the fixed lines of .
This cannot be case , and there are therefore no such as and X ' .
Hence LX one of distinct collineations .
In fact there are ) forms , and given one occurs three ) .
This set includes with each collineation its inverse .
The line is one of ) } ) ; for thele are 16 lines any -point 011 to '-point on and of the that so arise from the pairs each occurs three tinles .
reuver , th for which the plane invarianC and nlutes the 1 -points in this plane transitively .
Hence the 240 lines from are per1nuted transitively the of these lines is an absolutely fixed line for oi order its inverse .
Hence the set of 480 collineations of order ) , such as , is set .
Also the set of collinentionh of order hich I ) is a set . .
it the that is of oldcr 3 when and X not ) , that the 1 tions of the are permutable with a iven one , form le conj set in the -group containing that one The two conjugate sets of 4 and ) tiol of order the only in roup .
Any tion of ordor must tltnsform solle set of ti pairs , : .
1 : : into itself .
lf it into itself .
it to the correeither one one of it utcs the sets it may ) to ) : the of but the effect of this collineation on the five pairs : : : ; is to transform each pair into itself .
Hence , again , the collineation belongs either to the 45 or to the 270 .
Another remarkable set of collineations to the are the perspectives of order 3 .
It has been seen in S12 that the 40 points all lie either on the nine lines through or in the plane 1 if any -line meet in , then are the fixed points of collineation of order on the line which leaves and permutes the remaining three -points on the line .
Hence a perspective of order , of which is the fixed point and the fixed plane , } ) ermutes the 40 ( unchanged .
The configul ation bnvariant for this perspective , it must to the .
There are , perspectives , each of order ) , having the 40 and corresponding 40 planes for their fixed points and planes to the group .
No perspective can be into its verse by a collineatiou ; so that these 80 perspectives fall inlo two conj n sets of 40 each .
19 .
From the 27 sets of five pairs it is possible to choose 12 which contain each pairs twice and none of the remainder .
Assuming the possibility of such a choice , if , in the table of S1 is taken for one set , then others must come from the first 11 sets and the remainder from the other 16 .
the for which is invariant permutes the last 16 sets Any one of them may therefore be takell with .
If a particular one , ?
, is chosen , then among the last 16 there are only five others which have a pair in common with , viz. , These , then , necessarily belong to the 12 .
The symbols of the pairs contained these sets have either no 2 or only one .
Hence the five to be chosen from the first 11 must satisfy this condition ; and 011 a reference to the table it is seen that this can be done in just one way , viz. , by taking .
The set then is uniquely determined by and .
Of these , can ) chosen in ) then in 16 .
There are therefore such sets twelve , and they are permuted transitively by the collineations of the group .
The roup which leaves one such set invariant is of order 720 .
Now both and are invariant for the of S8 , generated by the collineations .
Hence the pair of sets is one of either or 12 pairs , transitively by the for which ] the set of is in variant .
lf it Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 , were one of 1 there would , two pairs containing , and their other members would be eithel invariant for or permuted by the .
Now is simple , and hence each other menlber would be invariant for the .
But and are only two members of the set of twelve are invariant for the .
Hence the pair is invariant for a and is one of six such for the , and the five airs are ; ; , these permuted by the A collineation which leaves each of these pairs invariant is found to leave each of the 30 pairs of lines which enter in the set of twelve invariant , and is efore the identical collineation .
Hence the is simply phic with a permutation ronp on 6 symbols .
It is therefore the symmetric group in six symbols , and the for which the pair is invariant is the symmetric group of five sylnbols .
Ioreover , the roup arrived at thus are the only sub-groups of the simply isomorphic with the roup of the 6 symbols .
* Any such roup must permute the 27 sets of five in transitively , in groups of , 10 , 12 or 15 .
The on possible combinations are 12 , 15 , the case considered above ; or 6 , 6 , if six sets of five undergo the permutations of the symmetric group of 6 , each pair of sets must contain a common line-pair , or else no pair of sets contains a common line-pair .
reference to the shows that case is possible .
By an exten sion of the above reasoning it may be shown that for any of the which permutes the ) sets of five intransitively , the smallest number of sets transitively permuted themselves must be 1 , 2 , 3 , 9 or 12 .
A set lline contains each of six pairs of lines three and 27 other pairs each once .
Such a set is .
the roups of the of and 41 there are imple invariants ; that the roup of index 40 consisting of one of the 40 points and its associated plane ; while one of ths 45 pairs of lines of the configuration is for a sub-group of index .
For the sub-groups of indices ) there are no such simple inval.iants .
For the .
of index 27 , the line pairs invariant ; these are the lixed of five mutually collineations of order If is any point of space , and , the points with is by the five collineations , ' Lon vol. 1 , New Series , p. 283 .
1905 .
] On the of Order 25920 .
of order 2 , then , P2 , lie in a plane ; this is , in fact , a wellknown property of what is called the uration .
The five permutable collineations of order 2 then co-ordinate with every point of space a definite plane passing through i.e. , they define a linear complex : and this complex is invariant for the .
To the sub-groups conjugate with the there correspond linear complexes which are permuted ) the collineations of the group .
These complexes are such that from them may be formed 45 sets of three , such that for each set of three the complex planes corresponding to the same point meet in a line ; or in other words , .
such that the three of set are not linearly independent .
This property is characteristic , and enables the 27 complexes to be constructed from any six which are linearly independent .
To effect this determination I represent the complexes which correspond to the 12 sets of five of the precedin paragraph as follows:\mdash ; , A ; and I denote the fact that can be expressed linearly in terms of A and ) .
by the notation : while the condition that a greater number of linear complexes are not independent is represented by Then if the remaining complexes denoted by the letters used the corresponding sets of five , the linear relations between the complexes are given by the following tables:\mdash ; , are the first 30 .
With suitable weights to the complexes , these relation* involve , say .
Hence : and in terms of the ) , , are given by the Simple Group of Order The remaining 10- relations consist of five sets of three of the form , These only be satisfied : the previous relations determine the remaining 16 complexes uniquely .
The complete set of 27 which verify the relations are then in terms of six independent ones certainly as follows:\mdash ; , ; .
; ( 6 ) , ; ( 5 ) and nine similar sets , each three and three minus signs ( 10 ) .
The sub-group of index older , considered in S 19 , permutes nsitively the six pairs of the linear conplexes , ; ; ; ; .
there is clearly just linear comple-v , viz. , can be expressed linearly in terms } each of the si pairs erInuted by the .
Hence roup must leave this linear ( invariant .
The sintplest for the ) of inde is therefore a lin ear .
H. , " " Iafh .
Aun vol. 41 , . .

