VIII .
An Extract of a Letter from Sir Conrad Sprengell , M. D. R. S. S. &amp; Coll. Med. Lond. Licen .
to Dr. Mortimer ; wherein he enclosed the foregoing Account of the Plica Polonica ; together with an Article from the Brellam Sammlung von datur~ und Medicin , &amp;c. Gelchichten upon the same Subject , translated from the High-Dutch by Dr. Mortimer , R. S. Secr. SIR , January 20th , 1730/ 1 .
***THEPLICA has been always related , and thought to be a Distemper , and to proceed from a Fever or Convulsions ; but for my Part , from the best Information I could get concerning it , I think it a Product of Nastiness , by not combing their Hair , nor washing their Heads ; for if it were a real Distemper , the People of Fashion could no more be free from it than the ordinary People , among whom ( i. e. the ordinary and poor ) it only happens .
This is confirmed by an inquisitive Person , ( a Correspondent of Mr. Joh. Henry Lincke , F. R. S. of Lipsick , )who sent the following Article to the Society of Breslaw , in whose Transactions , entitled , ~~ Datur &amp;c. Anno 1724 , Artic .
17 , Mense Augusto , p. 126 , it is inserted to this Purpose .
) The great Multitude of People in Poland , who are troubled with this PLIC A , first made me reflect , whether it were a real Disease or no ?
I am now convinced , that their swinish Way of living , and the common Opinion so deeply rooted in the Generality of People , that this Lock of Hair cannot be taken off without Danger of their Lives , have contributed more to this Complaint than any real Indisposition of Body ; considering that it is the middling or poor People , who are troubled with it ; whom then one cannot look on without Horror : But no German , of whom there are great Numbers , who live in that Country , ever had any such thing grow .
Many of them , who are married to Women of Polish Birth , are scarce able to persuade their Wives not to train up their Children to this Nastiness .
Not long since I saw a Fellow in the Church , who had about seventy of such Locks hanging down from his Head , which were as hard twisted , as so many Penny Cords ; that one might easily have taken his for a Medusa 's Head ( and who knows , but that in ancient Times some such Locks as these might have given Rise to the Poetical Fiction of Snakes growing on the Head instead of Hair ?
Be that as it will , this is certain , it is a most odious Sight to look

