1878 .
] Capt. Abney on the Acceleration of Oxidation , 291 some tours .
When cold , and just taken out of the sand , they were found to be inactive ( except that they liberated a portion of the modi-fied salt after the manner of the inactive essential oils ) ; but by exposure to the outer air ( wind N.E. ) they became active in about ten minutes .
Cocoa-nut shell charcoal requires a longer exposure to become active .
Hence the activity of charcoal does not depend on absorption , but on the condition of the air contained within its pores .
IV .
" Notes on Physical Geology .
" By the Rev. Samuel Haughton , M.D. Dublin , D.C.L. , Oxon , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Dublin .
April 11 , 1878 .
Dr. W. FAR , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
Dr. William Carmichael McIntosh was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Acceleration of Oxidation caused by the Least Refrangible End of the Spectrum .
" By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1878 .
Preliminary Note .
In a paper contributed to the Philosophical Magazine in January last , I expressed an opinion that Chastaing 's idea regarding an acceleration of oxidation being caused by red light might prove true in regard to the oxidation of the photographic image , and elsewhere* that Becquerel 's coloured spectra and Draper 's reversed spectra might be explained on the same principles .
Owing to want of time until this last week , I have been unable to investigate the matter , but can now affirm that such is the case as regards oxidation of the photographic image .
Silver bromide , free from contamination , emulsified in collodion , " which had been previously carefully purified , was spread on a plate , * " Treatise on Photography .
" Longmans .
Page 225 .
292 Capt. Abney on the Acceleration of , fyc .
[ Apr. 11 , and exposed to diffused light .
It was then submitted to the action of the solar spectrum , while immersed in a solution of potassium permanganate , or hydroxyl .
When the strength of the permanganate , or hydroxyl , was correct a reversed image of the least refrangible end of the spectrum was obtained , an increase in oxidation taking place when the red rays acted , the reversal taking place somewhere near D , extending into the ultra-red .
The accelerating effect of the red rays is most marked when the solution of permanganate or hydroxyl is weak ; but there is a limit to the dilution , caused by the fact that silver bromide is sensitive as far as the line or , and there must be sufficient strength to oxidise the invisible image as it is formed , besides gradually destroying the effect of the preliminary exposure .
With silver iodide this is not the case , the reversed action is much more readily obtained .
The strength of hydroxyl solution I employed I cannot state .
That of permanganate was as follows:\#151 ; 1 grain of potassium permanganate was dissolved in 200 oz. of water .
When the dilution was doubled the reducing action of the red rays on the bromide film was greater than its power of oxidation .
A collimator 18 inches long , a prism of 2-inch side , a slit y\#163 ; o inch wide , and a camera with lens of 2-feet focus , were employed for throwing the spectrum on the plate .
The exposure was five minutes , sunlight feeble ; preliminary exposure four seconds in the diffused light of my laboratory .
A specimen accompanies this paper .
Some interesting experiments in an atmosphere free from oxygen are being undertaken .
( Addendum .
) Received April 5 , 1878 .
Since making my communication , which was received by the Royal Society on the loth March last , I have employed films which were sensitive to the reducing action of the red rays to a wave-length of about 10,000 tenth-metres , and by modifying the strength of the oxidizing solution , the acceleration of oxidation by the red rays and ultra-red rays has been more strongly confirmed .
The oxidation on all the films is effected by potassium bichromate , nitric acid , and ozone , in addition to the agents I have already given .
Had not the sensitive film employed been capable of being reduced by the action of the red rays and ultra-red rays , the proof of the .
acceleration of oxidation by the same rays might perhaps have been open to dispute .

