PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
March 24 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. The Croonian Lecture.\#151 ; " Observations on the Locomotor System of Echinodermata .
" By George J. Romanes , M.A. , F.R.S. , and Professor James C. Ewart , M.D. Received March 5 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) I.\#151 ; Morphology .
In Holothuriathe polian vesicle opens freely into a wide circular canal a short distance from the termination of the stone canal .
Prom this circular canal five lozenge-shaped sinuses project forwards , and from each of these two large oval sinuses run forward parallel with each other the ten oval sinuses becoming continuous with the hollow stems of the tentacles .
Injection of the polian vesicle shows that it forms one continuous tube system with the circular canal and its sinuses , oval sinuses and tentacles , ampullte and pedicels .
Unless the pressure is kept up for a considerable time there is no penetration of the injected fluid into the stone canal , and either the ring , the vesicle , or a sinus gives way before the fluid reaches the madreporic plate .
pecimens injected with a gelatine mass show that each canal sinus opens into a csecal tube , which runs forwards internal to the sinuses of the tentacles as far as a wide circum-oral space .
This space com- YOL .
XXXII .
_ Mr. G. J. Romanes and Prof. J. C. Ewart .
[ Mar. 24 , municates by well-defined apertures with that portion of the body cavity which lies between the sinuses and the oesophagus , and which is reached through the circular apertures between the sinuses of the circular canal .
Each canal sinus has three other apertures in its walls .
It opens by a small round aperture into a radial canal , and the two other apertures occur as minute slits , one at each side of the orifice of the radial canal leading into the adjacent tentacle sinuses .
When the tentacle into which the sinus opens is protruded , there is no constriction between the sinus and the tentacle ; but when the tentacle is retracted , there is a well-marked constriction at the junction of the sinus with the tentacle .
The eversion of the perisome and the protrusion of the tentacles are effected chiefly by the shortening of the polian vesicle and the constriction of the longitudinal muscular bands , which run from the inner surface of the body wall between each two adjacent tentacle-sinuses ; but the circular fibres of the body wall also assist in the process by contracting immediately behind the group of sinuses , so as to act on them by direct pressure , and also indirectly by forcing the body fluid against them .
The amount of the body cavity fluid is constantly changing .
At the entrance to the cloacal chamber there is a circular valve which is constantly dilating and contracting , except when the aboral end of the animal is forcibly retracted .
When open , this valve allows water to pass into the respiratory tree ; when it begins to retract , water escapes from the cloaca .
This alternate opening and closing takes place with perfect rhythm , at a rate of about six revolutions per minute .
At the end of every seventh or eighth revolution a large stream of clear water is ejected , which sometimes contains sand and the remains of food particles^ .
When the tentacles are being protruded , more water is taken in at the cloaca than escapes ; on the other hand , retraction of the tentacles is preceded by an escape of a large stream of water .
In Echinus , two tubes spring from the under surface of the madre-poric plate .
The one is dilated at its origin , so as to include the greater portion of the plate , and ends in the so-called heart ; the other is small , deeply pigmented , and runs along a groove in the heart to open into a circular canal at the base of the lantern .
From the under aspect of this circular canal the five radial ambulacral vessels take their origin .
Immediately within the oral margin of the shell , and alternating with the inner row of pedicels , are the five pairs of " tree-like organs .
" If a fine glass cannula be forced through the membrane which extends from the apex of each tooth to the oral margin of the interambulacral plates and sides of the alveoli , coloured fluids may be injected into the space between the membrane and the alveoli of the lantern ; the fluid then slowly diffuses upwards into the vesicles around the apices of the teeth .
It reaches these 1881 .
] On the Locomotor System 3 vesicles partly by passing directly upwards external to the alveoli , and partly by passing into the cavities of the alveoli and ascending tbrougb the circular sinus .
In Spatangus the ambulacral circumoral canal has no polian vesicles or sinuses developed in connexon with it .
Some of the ' pedicels have suckers , others are conical and devoid of them , while others again are flattened at their tips , and sometimes split up into segments .
If one of the arms of Solaster papposa is divided transversely , and a coloured fluid introduced into the open end of the radial canal , the ampullae and pedicels of the injected arm are at once distended .
The fluid next penetrates the circular canal , polian vesicles , ampullae , and pedicels of the other arms ; but unless considerable pressure be kept up for some time , none of the solution enters the madreporic canal .
If , however , the pressure is maintained for several hours with a column of fluid 2 feet high , the fluid ascends through the stone canal and diffuses slowly through the madreporic plate .
When a thin slice is then shaved off the plate , the fluid is observed escaping from a small circumscribed area situated between the centre and the margin of the plate , and corresponding in size and position with the termination of the stone canal on the inner surface .
The* stone canal , gradually increasing in diameter as it passes , inwards from the madreporic plate , runs obliquely over its accompanying sinus , till it finally hooks round this sinus to open into the circular canal .
Springing from this canal and opposite to each inter-radial space ( with the exception of the space occupied by the stone canal ) is a polian vesicle .
The size and form of these vesicles are largely determined by the amount of fluid in the pedicels .
In none of the injected specimens was there any evidence of a communication between the ambulacral vessels and the body cavity , or between the ambulacral and the blood ( neural ) vessels .
There was , however , abundant evidence of communication between the latter and the exterior .
When a cannula was introduced into the outer end of the sinus , a coloured solution could be easily forced through the sinus into the circular blood-vessel , and from this into the radial blood-vessels .
But when the cannula was introduced into the proximal end of the sinus , the solution rapidly rushed along the sinus and escaped through the madreporic plate , proving that the blood-vessels of Solaster communicate far more freely with the exterior than do the water-vessels .
The ambulacral system of the common star-fish only differs from that of the sun-star in having no polian vesicles .
on the other hand , has polian vesicles ; but in it the pedicels have departed from the usual form in being short , conical , and unprovided with terminal suckers .
In Ophiura the pedicels are morphologically similar to those of Astropecten , though shorter and more slender .
b 2 Mr. G. J. Romanes and Prof. J. C. Ewart .
[ Mar. 24 , They diminish in size as they proceed outwards , and at the ends of the arms are scarcely visible .
Nervous System of Echinus .
The internal nervous system of Echinus consists of five radial trunks , which may be traced from the ocular plates along the ambu-lacral areas external to the radial canals to the oral floor , where they bifurcate and unite with each other so as to form the pentagonal nervering .
This ring lies between the oesophagus and the tips of the teeth which project from the lantern .
Small branches leave the ring and supply the oesophagus , and lateral branches arise from the several trunks to escape with the pedicels through the apertures of the pore plates .
Each trunk lies in a sinus situated between the lining membrane of the shell and the ambulacral radial canal .
The lateral branches which accompany the first series of pedicels through the oral floor are large and deeply pigmented .
The branches within the auricles are small ; those external to the auricles gradually increase in size until the equator is reached , and from the equator to the ocular plates they diminish in size .
At the equator , the trunk is wider than at either pole , and it is often partially divided for some distance at each side of the equator by a deep longitudinal fissure .
When the nerve-trunk , after being stained with chloride of gold or with osmic acid , is removed from its sinus , it is seen to be enveloped by a thin fibrous sheath .
This sheath contains numerous large pigment cells , and has scattered over it irregular masses of protoplasm which have been deposited from the fluid of the neural sinus .
When the sheath is removed , the trunk is seen to consist of delicate fibres and of fusiform cells .
The cells consist of a nucleus and a thin layer of protoplasm , which projects at each end , and terminates in a nerve-fibre .
The lateral branches of the trunk escape along with and are partly distributed to the pedicels ; the remainder break up into delicate filaments which radiate from the base of the pedicel under the surface epithelium .
When one of the large branches already referred to as escaping with the inner row of pedicels is traced through the oral floor , after sending a branch to the foot , it breaks up into delicate fibres , some of which run towards the bases of the adjacent spines and pedicellariae , while others run inwards a short distance towards the oral aperture .
Either in connexion with , or anatomically independent of , these filaments from the lateral branches of the nerve-trunks , there arises an external plexus lying almost immediately under the surface epithelium and extending from the shell to the spines and pedicellariee .
The fibres of this plexus closely resemble the fibres of the lateral branches of the trunk , but generally they are smaller in size and have 1881 .
] On the Locomotor System of Echinodermata .
a distinct connexion with nerve-cells .
The cells consist of an oval nucleus and of a layer of protoplasm , which is generally seen to project in two , or sometimes in three , directions\#151 ; the several processes often uniting with similar processes from adjacent cells , so as to form a fibro-cellular chain or network .
In preparations from portions of 'Echini treated with both chloride of gold and osmic acid , we have succeeded in tracing the plexus over the surface of the shell between the spines and pedicellariae , and from the surface of the shell to the capsular muscles at the bases of the spines ; we repeatedly observed delicate fibres passing beyond the muscles to end apparently under the epithelium over the surface of the spines .
In the case of the pedicellarioe the plexus on reaching the stem runs along between the calcareous stem and the surface epithelium , to reach and extend over and between the muscular and connective tissue fibres between the stem and the bases of the mandibles .
The plexus , now in the form of exceedingly delicate fibres connecting small bipolar cells , reaches the special muscles of the mandibles .
In several preparations delicate fibres appeared to extend towards the sensitive epithelial pad situated on the inner surface of each mandible a short distance from the apex .
Although this plexus is especially related to the muscular fibres , lying over and dipping in between them , it is also related to the surface epithelium , and delicate fibres often extend from it to end under or between the epithelial cells .
II.\#151 ; Physiology .
1 .
Natural Movements.\#151 ; The ordinary crawling movements of Astro-pecten aurantiacus are peculiar , the ambulacral feet acting the part of walking-poles and cilia combined .
Brittle-stars progress by using two opposite arms upon the floor of the tank , with a movement like swimming ; at each stroke the animal advances with a sort of leap , and can thus travel at the rate of six feet per minute .
The ordinary progression of Echinus and Spatangus is assisted by the co-ordinated action of the spines , and when placed upon a flat surface out of the water the animal advances by means of its spines alone .
In Echinus the lantern and pedicellariae are also used to assist in locomotion .
All the Echinodermata that we have observed are able , when placed upon their dorsal surfaces on the floor of a tank , to recover their normal position on their oral surface .
The common star-fish does so by twisting the ends of two or more of its rays round , so as to bring its terminal suckers into action upon the floor of the tank , and then , by a successive and similar action of the suckers f urther back in the series , the whole ray is progressively twisted round , so that its ambulacral surface is applied flat against the floor .
The rays which perform 6 Mr. G. J. Romanes and Prof. J. C. Ewart .
[ Mar. 24 ?
this action twist their semi-spirals in the same direction , and by their concerted action serve to drag the disk and the remaining rays over themselves as a fulcrum .
Other species of star-fish , which have not their ambulaeral suckers sufficiently developed to act in this way , execute their righting movements by doubling under two or three of their adjacent rays , and turning a somersault over them , as in the previous case .
Echinus rights itself when placed on its aboral pole , by the successive action of two or three adjacent rows of suckers , so gradually rising from aboral pole to equator , and then as gradually falling from equator to oral pole .
Spatangus executes a similar manoeuvre entirely by the successive pushing and propping action of its longer spines .
2 .
Stimulation.\#151 ; All the echinoderms that we have observed seek to escape from injury in a direct line from the source of stimulation .
If two points of the surface are stimulated , the direction of escape is the diagonal between them .
When several points all round the animal are simultaneously stimulated , the direction of advance becomes uncertain , with a marked tendency to rotation upon the vertical axis .
If a short interval of time be allowed to elapse between the application of two successive stimuli , the direction of advance will be in a straight line from the stimulus applied latest .
If a circular band of injury be quickly made all the way round the equator of Echinus , the animal crawls away from the broadest part of the band\#151 ; from the greatest amount of injury .
The external nerve plexus supplies innervation to three sets of organs \#151 ; the pedicels , the spines , and the pedicellariae ; for when any part of the external surface of Echinus is touched , all the pedicels , spines , and pedicellariae within reach of the point that is touched immediately approximate and close in upon the point , so holding fast to whatever body may be used as the instrument of stimulation .
In executing this combined movement the pedicellariae are the most active , the spines somewhat slower , and the pedicels very much slower .
If the shape of the stimulating body admits of it , the forceps of the pedicellariae seize the body and hold it till the spines and pedicels come up to assist .
And here we have proof of the function of the pedicellariae .
In climbing perpendicular or inclined surfaces of rock covered with waving sea-weeds , it must be no small advantage to an echinus to be provided on all sides with a multitude of forceps adapted , as described , to the instantaneous grasping and arresting of a passing frond ; for , in this way , not only is an immediate hold obtained , but a moving piece of .seaweed is held steady till the pedicels have time to establish a further and more permanent hold upon it with their sucking disks .
That this is the chief function of the pedicellariae is indicated by the facts that , 1st , if a piece of seaweed is drawn over the surface of an , this function may clearly be seen to be performed ; 2nd , the wonder- 1881 .
] On the Locomotor System fully tenacious grasp of the forceps is timed as to its duration with an apparent reference to the requirements of the pedicels , for after lasting about two minutes ( which is about the time required for the suckers to bend over and fix themselves to the object held by the pedicellarise , if such should be a suitable one ) , this wonderfully tenacious grasp is spontaneously released ; and , 3rd , the most excitable part of the trident pedicellarise is the inner surface of the mandibles , about a third of the way down their serrated edges\#151 ; the part which a moving body cannot touch without being well within the grasp of the forceps .
When the forceps are closed , they may generally be made immediately to expand by gently stroking the external surface of their bases .
With regard to stimulation of the spines , if severe irritation be applied to any part of the external or internal surface of an Echinus , the spines all over the animal take on an active bristling movement .
The tubercles at the bases of the spines are the most irritable points on the external surface .
With regard to stimulation of the pedicels , if an irritant be applied to any part of a row , all the pedicels in that row retract in succession from the seat of stimulation , but the influence does not extend to other rows .
A contrary elfect is produced by applying an irritant to any part of the external nerve plexus , all the pedicels being then stimulated into increased activity .
Of these antagonistic influences , the former , or inhibitory one , is the stronger , for if they are both in operation at the same time the pedicels are retracted .
Star-fish ( with the exception of brittle-stars ) and Echini crawl towards , and remain in , the light ; but when their eye-spots are removed they no longer do so .
When their eye-spots are left intact they can distinguish light of very feeble intensity .
3 .
Section .
\#151 ; Single rays detached from the organism crawl as fast and in as determinate a direction as do entire animals .
They also crawl towards light , away from injuries , up perpendicular surfaces , and , when inverted , right themselves .
Dividing the ray-nerve in any part of its length has the effect of destroying all physiological continuity between the pedicels on either side of the division .
Severing the nerve at the origin of each ray , or severing the nervering between each ray , has the effect of totally destroying all coordination among the rays ; therefore , the animal can no longer crawl away from injuries ; and , when inverted , it forms no definite plan for righting itself .
Each ray acting for itself , without reference to the others , there is , as a result , a promiscuous distribution of spirals and doublings , which , as often as not , are acting in antagonism to one another .
This division of the nerves usually induces , for some time after the operation , more or less tetanic-like rigidity of the rays .
The operation , however , although so completely destroying physio- 8 Mr. G. J. Romanes and Prof. J. C. Ewart .
[ Mar. 24 logical continuity in the rows of pedicels and the muscular system of the rays , does not destroy , or perceptibly impair , physiological continuity in the external nerve-plexus ; for however much the nerve-ring and nerve-trunks may be injured , stimulation on the dorsal surface of the animal throws all the pedicels and the muscular system of the rays into active movement .
This fact proves that the pedicels and the muscles are all held in nervous connexion with one another by the external plexus , without reference to the integrity of the main trunks .
If a cork-borer be rotated against the external surface of an Echinus till the calcareous substance of the shell is reached , and therefore a continuous circular section of the overlying tissues effected , the spines and pedicellarise within the circular area are physiologically separated from those without it , as regards their local reflex irritability .
That is to say , if any part of this circular area is stimulated , all the spines and pedicellarias within that area immediately respond to the stimulation in the ordinary way , while none of the spines or pedi-cellarise surrounding the area are affected , and conversely .
Therefore we conclude that the function of the spines and pedicellarias of localising and gathering round a seat of stimulation is exclusively dependent upon the external nervous plexus .
If the line of injury is not a closed curve , so as not to produce a physiological island , the stimulating influence will radiate in straight lines from its source , but will not irradiate round the ends of the curve or line of injury .
Although the nervous connexions on which the spines and pedi-cellarise depend for their function of localising and closing round a seat of stimulation are thus shown to be completely destroyed by injury of the external plexus , other nervous connexions , upon which another function of the spines depends , are not in the smallest degree impaired by such injury .
This other function is that which brings about the general co-ordinated action of all the spines for the purposes of locomotion .
That this function is not impaired by injury of the external plexus is proved by severely stimulating an area within a closed line of injury on the surface of the shell ; all the spines over the whole surface of the animal then manifest their bristling movements , and by their co-ordinated action convey the animal in a straight line of escape from the source of irritation .
We have , therefore , to distinguish between what may be called the local reflex function of the spines , which they show in common with the pedicellariae and which is exclusively dependent upon the external plexus , and what w may call the universal reflex function of the spines , which consists in their general co-ordinated action for the purposes of locomotion and which is wholly independent of the external plexus .
Evidently , therefore , this more universal function must depend upon some other set of nervous connexions ( which , however , we have not been able to detect histologically ) , and experi- 1881 .
] On the Locomotor System 9 meant shows that these , if present , are distributed over all the internal surface of the shell .
For if the internal surface be painted with acid , or scoured out with emery paper and brick-dust , the spines and pedicellariae , after a short period of increased activity or bristling , become perfectly quiescent , lie flat , and lose both their spontaneity and irritability .
After a few hours , however , the spontaneity and irritability of the spines return , though in a feeble degree , and also those of the pedicellariae in a more marked degree .
These effects take place over the whole external surface of the shell , if the whole of the internal surface be painted with acid or scoured with brick-dust ; but if any part of the external surface be left unpainted or unscoured , the corresponding part of the external surface remains uninjured .
From these experiments we conclude1st , that the general co-ordination of the spines is wholly dependent on the integrity of the hypothetical internal plexus ; 2nd , that the hypothetical internal plexus is everywhere in intimate connexion with the external , apparently through the calcareous substance of the shell ; and 3rd , that complete destruction of the former , while profoundly influencing through shock the functions of the latter , nevertheless does not wholly destroy them .
Echini may be divided into pieces , and the pedicels , spines , and pedicellariae upon these pieces will continue to exhibit their functions of local reflex irritability , however small the pieces may be .
If an entire double row of pedicels be divided out as a segment , and then placed upon its aboral end , it may rear itself up on its oral end by the successive action of its pedicels , and then proceed to crawl about the floor of the tank .
We have therefore to meet the question : Is the action of the ambulacral feet in executing these righting movements of a merely serial kind\#151 ; a , b , and c , first securing their hold on the tank floor , owing to the stimulus supplied by contact , and then by their traction tilting over the globe till d , e , and f are able to touch the floor , and so on ; or does the righting action depend upon nervous co-ordination ?
We conclude that both principles are combined , the action of the pedicels being serial , but also assisted by nervous coordination .
This conclusion is sustained by the experiment of shaving off the spines and pedicels over one-half of one hemisphere\#151 ; i.e. , the half from the equator to the oral pole .
When then inverted and forced to use their mutilated pedicel-rows , the Echini reared themselves upon their equators , and then , having no more pedicels wherewith to continue the manoeuvre , came to rest .
This rest was permanent , the animal remaining , if accidents were excluded , upon its equator till it died .
The question , then , here seems to resolve itself simply into this : Is the mechanism of the pedicels so constructed as to ensure that their serial action shall always take place in the same direction ?
For if it can be shown that their serial action may take place indifferently in 10 Mr. G. J. Romanes and Prof. J. C. Ewart .
[ Mar. 24 , either direction , it would follow that the persistency with which the partly shaved Echini continue reared upon their equators , is the ex-pression of some stimulus ( such as a sense of gravity ) continuously acting upon some central apparatus , and impelling the latter to a continuous , though fruitless , endeavour to co-ordinate the absent pedicels .
If the pedicels are able to act serially in either direction , there is no more reason why a partly shaved Echinus should remain permanently reared upon its equator , than that it should remain permanently inverted upon its pole ; and therefore the fact that in the latter position the pedicels set about an immediate rotation of the animal , while in the former , and quite as unnatural position , they hold the animal in persistent stasis\#151 ; this fact tends to show that the righting movements of the pedicels are something more than serial .
Thus the whole question us between the two hypotheses amounts to whether the pedicels are able to act serially from oral to aboral pole .
Observation has shown us that they are so , for we have seen Echini spontaneously rear themselves from their normal position on the oral pole , to the position of resting upon their equators .
Further , as additional evidence that the righting movements are at least assisted by some centralising influence , is the fact that when the evolution is nearly completed by the pedicel-rows engaged in executing it , the lower pedicels in the other rows become strongly protruded and curved downwards , in anticipation of shortly coming into contact with the floor of the tank .
But , on the other hand , there is evidence to show that the action of the pedicels in executing this manoeuvre , although , as we have seen , in some measure , is not exclusively dependent upon this centralising influence ; and we found that the centre from which this influence proceeds is the nerve-ring that surrounds the lantern .
For when this is removed , the following results are produced .
The pedicels have their spontaneity impaired , though not destroyed\#151 ; the animal still continuing to crawl , but only feebly , and no longer in a determinate manner , frequently changing its direction of advance , and showing a marked tendency to rotate upon its vertical axis .
Moreover the echinus is now no longer able to escape from injury , but when stimulated crawls indifferently in any direction .
Thus , removal of the nerve-centre seriously impairs the activity of the pedicles , and totally destroys their co-ordination .
Yet when specimens so mutilated are inverted , one out of every four specimens is able to right itself .
This , however , is only done with much difficulty and after a long time , so that , under these circumstances , the execution of this manoeuvre seems to be just barely possible .
Still the fact of its being possible at all proves that the integrity of the nerve-centre is not absolutely essential to its performance .
Therefore , as experiment has failed to reveal to us any other general nerve-centre in the animal , and as even a segment of the 1881.1 On the Locomotor System animal containing only a single row of pedicels is in many cases able to perform this manoeuvre , we conclude , as already stated , that the action of the pedicels is partly of a serial character , though largely assisted by the co-ordinating influence that emanates from the nerve-centre .
The effect of this operation upon the spines and pedicellarise still remains to be considered .
No effect at all is produced upon the pedicel lariee ; but upon the spines a profound influence is seen to be exercised .
Their spontaneity , indeed , remains unimpaired , as does also the function which they share with the pedicellariae of closing round any instrument of stimulation ; likewise their power of responsive bristling all over the animal when any part of the animal is severely stimulated continues to be manifested as before , although for an hour or two after the operation this power is suspended by shock .
But the general coordination of the spines is totally and permanently destroyed , for if the animal be placed upon a table and a spirit-lamp flame held against one side , although all the spines will manifest their bristling movements ( if the period of shock has been allowed to pass away ) , they will no longer co-operate to remove the animal from the source of irritation .
These facts prove , 1st , that the general co-ordination of the spines is wholly dependent upon the nerve-centre ; 2nd , that the spontaneity and local reflex irritability are wholly independent of that centre\#151 ; they depend entirely upon the external nerve plexus ; and , 3rd , that the universal nervous connexions revealed in the bristling movements of the spines , and which , as shown by previously narrated experiments , depend upon the hypothetical internal nerve plexus , are themselves in nervous connexion with the nerve-centre .
For only thus can we explain the long period of shock which removal of this centre entails upon the functions of this supposed internal plexus .
Nevertheless , the fact that these functions are eventually resumed in the general bristling of the spines , proves that this general communication between the spines is maintained by the direct conductility of the supposed internal plexus , and is not of the nature of a reflex action , in which the nerve ring is concerned as a general centre for the responsive , as distinguished from the co-ordinated , action of the spines .
These results taken together prove that all parts of the nervous system of the Echinodermata are , in function as in structure , both central and peripheral , although the nerve-ring exercises a larger share of centralising influence than does any other part of the system .

