A paper wras also read entitled , " Experimental Researches into the strength of Pillars of Cast Iron , and other materials .
" By Eaton Hodgkinson , Esq. Communicated by Peter Barlow , Esq. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The author finds that in all long pillars of the same dimensions , the resistance to crushing by flexure is about three times greater when the ends of the pillars are flat , than when they are rounded .
A long uniform cast-iron piliar , with its ends firmly fixed , whether by means of disks or otherwise , has the same power to resist break ?
ing as a piliar of the same diameter , and half the length , with the ends rounded , or turned so that the force would pass through the axis .
The strength of a piliar with one end round and the other flat , is the arithmetical mean between that of a piliar of the same dimen ?
sions with both ends round , and one with both ends flat .
Some additional strength is given to a piliar by enlarging its diameter in the middle part .
The author next investigated the strength of long cast-iron pillars with relation to their diameter and length .
He concludes that the index of the power of the diameter , to which the strength is proportional , is 3*736 .
He then proceeds to determine , by a comparison of experimental results , the inverse power of the length to which the strength of the pillar is proportional .
The highest value of this power is 1*914 , the lowest , 1*537 , the mean of all the comparisons , 1*7117 .
He thus deduces , first , approximate empirical formulae for the breaking weight of solid pillars , and then proceeds to deduce more correct methods of determining their strength .
Experiments on hollow pillars of cast iron are then described , and formula ?
representing the strength of such pillars are deduced from these experiments .
After giving some results of experiments still in progress for determining the power of cast-iron pillars to resist long-continued pressure , the author proceeds to determine from his experiments the strength of pillars of wrought iron and timber , as dependent on their dimensions .
The conclusion for wrought iron is , that the strength varies inversely as the square of the pillar 's length , and directly as the power 3*75 of its diameter , the latter being nearly identical with the result obtained for cast iron ; for timber , the strength varies nearly as the 4th power of the side of the square forming the section of the pillar .
Experiments for determining the relation of the strength to the length in pillars of timber , were not instituted , as , from the great flexure of the material , it was considered that no very satisfactory conclusions on this point could be derived experimentally .
In conclusion , the author gives the relative strengths of long pillars of cast iron , wrought iron , steel , and timber .

