]\gt ; Boiling Points of some Saturated Aqueous Solutions .
489 liquid .
This temperature will be the " " hypsometer\ldquo ; point .
As these variable factors are operative in any method of boiling a liquid , heating by a flame or by an electric current will no better results than the method we.used .
Here it is necessary to obtain a series of observations and extrapolate to an infinitely small layer of liquid .
In the case of solutions , the hypsometer point cannot be determined directly , so that we must fall back on determinations of the temperatures of the boiling liquid ; these are also variable , and it would seem that a definition of what is meant by the boiling point of a solution is required .
We would suggest the following :Assuming that the solution is under a standard atmospheric pressure of 760 mm. of mercury , then the boiling point is the temperature of a small layer when its vapour is in equilibrium with the free vapour above it .
On the Points of some Saturated Aqueous By THE 0F BERKELEY , F.B.S. , and M. P. APPLEBY , M.A. , B.Sc. ( Oxon)Received Iarch 2 Introduction and Genjral \mdash ; These experiments were made so as to obtain as accurate data as we could for the purpose of calculating the osmotic pressures of the solutions .
The method for determining the boiling points was that already detailed in an earlier communication to the Society , * except that differential platmum thermometers were used as described in the paper " " On the Point of Water One of the platinum thermometers was always in the hypsometer , and to get the true boiling point as defined in our previous paper the height or\ldquo ; the barometer and height of solution were systematically noted .
The chief difficulty of the experiments was that of keeping the solutions saturated .
It was found necessary to use a large quantity of finely powdered salt , and to keep th solid in rapid motion by a sufficiently powerful current of steam .
If large crystals are used , or if the salt has been left in contact with the solution too long at the end of an experiment , so that crystals have grown , the next experiment will give low values for the equilibrium temperature , showing that the solution is not saturated .
At times it happened that a paste of crystals was formed , which offered so much resistance that the * Berkeley , ' Phil. Trans , 1904 , vol. 203 .
The Earl of Berkeley and Mr. M. P. Appleby .
[ Mar. 23 , steam entered at a qsure greater than normal , thus giving too high a value to the boiling point .
Usually fresh salt was ground up and placed in the apparatus before each 'determination .
The most snitable quantity of salt varies for each substadce , but was found by experiment .
The rate of of steam , as measured in the condenser , was about 3 .
per minute .
The temperature of the solution does not remain constant , but rises continually as the steam condenses , even after ation is practically reached ; this rise is caused by an increase in the height of solution above the orifice , and is quite analogous to the in boiling point with height of liquid discussed in the preceding paper .
It is evident that the rise due to an increase in depth of liquid will be different for different salts , both because the densities of the saturated solutions are different , and because the solubilities differ , the effect of pressure on the boiling point bein greater with the more soluble salts .
It was also found that the rate of increase in depth varied with the solubility of the salts .
Particulars of the Salts Us\mdash ; Many of the salts were those used in the previous work and recrystallised ; these in the following list are marked 1904:\mdash ; .
Kahlbaum 's purest . .
Merck 's " " guaranteed .
1904 , ' and a second specimen from Merck which gave higher resuIts , but on the third recrystallisation the results were the same as the 1904 . .
1904 .
TICI .
1904 . .
Merck 's " " guaranteed .
Merck 's , lower values were obtained after recrystallisation . .
1904 , and some made from Merck 's .
The whole lot was recrystallised . .
1904 , and some prepared from Merck 's .
The 1904 sample was accidentally spilled on the bench and contanninated with cyanides ; the second contained organic matter .
Both were repeatedly recrystallised , and their purity checked by speotroscopic examination . .
1904 .
Kahlbaunl 's purest . .
Kahlbaum 's purest . .
1904 ; also used in a research by Mr. T. R. Merton .
This salt was three times recrystallised before use . .
This salt was prepared from the carbonate , and was free from calcium , but it was found to contain a proportion of barium nitrate .
It was freed from the latter salt by dissolving in water and throwing it out of solution by means of alcohol and ether ; this process was repeated till no trace of barium could be found on the addition of potassium chromate .
It was then repeatedly recrystallised from water .
No impurities could be detected in the resulting product .
'Journ .
Chem. Soc 1910 , vol. 97 , p. 492 The Earl of Berkeley and .
M. P. Appleby .
[ Mar. 23 , The Barom Coeffi'cients.\mdash ; The effect of in barometric pressure ou the mperature equilibrium is greater in the case of saturated solutions than with water .
This is in part due to changes of solubility with pressure , and results , to a certain , in making the differential arrangement of the platinum thermomeGers not so effective in eliminating the variations in barometrlc We have therefore arranged the observations ( by determining boiling points -at differing barometric pressules ) so that a barometer coefficient may be calculated for each salt ; in every case the coefficient is derived from the mean of two or more determinations , and it represents the excess of the effect on the temperatule of the } saturated solution produced by a rise of barometer of 1 mm. over the corresponding effect on the temperature of the steam in the hypsometer .
The ynitude of the coefficient depends upon the solubility of the salt and also on the temperature coefficient of solubility ; thus for which is only moderately and does not vary in solubility with temperature , the coefficient is only C. , while for , which has both a high solubility and a large temperature coefficient of solubility , the coefficient is C. The barometer readings given in the tables were obtained thus :Before an experiment , the standard barometer ( it was standardised at Kew ) was .
compared with a Callendar sulphuric acid barometer of a large size ; the latter had been adjusted successfully so as to have practically no temperature coefficient ( its sensiGiveness was such that 1 mm. change in the mercury barometer caused a change in it of mm and all during the experiment were taken on the Callendar instrument .
Results of the Observations.\mdash ; The following tables give the results of the observations .
It was found that variations in the rate of passage of steam make but little differe1ice to the extrapolated ( see later ) " " equilibrium\ldquo ; tenlperature for zero height of liquid , so that these rates are not tabulated but two sets of observations are given for TICI and for to show the effect .
The last column of figures in each table gives the rise in temperature above the hypsometer for a constant pressure which is somewhere near the mean of the various pressures noted in the second column ; these numbers are calculated by means of the barometer cient 1iven at the head of the table:\mdash ; The Earl of Berkeley and Mr. M. P. Appleby .
[ Mar. 28 , The following table gives a comparison between barometer coefficients and ours for the salts we both have worked with : Table IL * All Buchanan 's observations on were made with the barometer below 620 mm. Theory.\mdash ; In the case of water , where the curve connecting the equilibrium temperature with the height of liquid is known to cut the temperature axis at the hypsometer point , we were able to derive an equation , from theoretical considerations , which fitted the observations .
This equation shows the curve to be a hyperbola .
In conformity with the definition previously given of the boiling point of a solution , it is required , in the present case , to obtain a means of correctly extrapolating the equilibrium temperature at zero height of liquid .
On plotting the numbers under the heading\ldquo ; corrected rise\ldquo ; against the height of solution ( see typical curves on pp. 496-7 ) , it is at once apparent that , as for water , the graphs are not straight hnes , but are convex to the axis along which the depth of solution is measured .
The obvious similarity between the water and solution curves suggests that the latter are also hyperbolas .
If , on the one hand , we extrapolate to zero height by means of a bent steel ruler , and on the other we calculate the same point on the assumption that a hyperbola fits the observations , we get the numbers given in Table III .
It is evident that a considerable divergence exists between the two methods of extrapolating ; in most cases the difference is greater than the experimental error .
The theoretical formulae developed in the preceding paper are applicable in their entirety to the saturated solutions\mdash ; for although the conditions of the experiments here considered differ in some respects from those pertaining to water , they , as will be shown , scarcely affect the argument .
Buchanan , ' Trana Roy .
Soc. Edin 1899 , vol. 39 , p. 629 .
911 .
] Boiling Points of some Saturated Aqueous Solutions .
499 The principal differences are detailed in paragraphs , and ( d ) below .
There is no question but that the liquid is now entirely heated by the condensation of steam ; for in most cases the temperature of the entering steam is less than that of the solution , and the latter is only heated because its vapour-pressure is less than the steam pressure .
( b ) The possible cooling effect taking place through the walls of the boiling vessel ; this , in the case of high boiling points , might at first sight be thought to cause a considerable loss of heat , but when it is remembered that the walls of the outer vessel are thoroughly lagged , it can be ] assumed that most of the heat lost by the solution in this way is returned to it by the extra heat imparted to the entering steam , so that the balance is scarcely disturbed .
( e ) The rate of increase in the depth of some of the solutions was much faster than in the case of water , in fact it was as much as 3 mm. in 10 minutes ( the quantity of steam passing through the solution in the same time was 30 ) ; this phenomenon prevented us from reaching a true equilibrium .
The results , however , are unaffected , for the depth of solution was always measured shortly before and after the temperature was determined , and these numbers were used for the curve .
It should be mentioned that a momentary maximum temperature can always be reached , but this maximum is not the true boiling point of the S 500 The Earl of Berkeley and Mr. M. P. Appleby .
[ Mar. 23 , saturated solution ; it can be realised easily that the maximum only shows when the quantity of salt left in the liquid is not enough to keep it saturated ; this , indeed , was quite apparent to the eye .
No temperatures here recorded are other than those that we are satisfied belong to solutions which were saturated at the time of observation .
( d ) The mean area of a bubble may still be taken as constant ; for even supposing that the whole change of level in the solution were caused by steam condensed out of the bubbles as they rise , the consequent change in area will only be small .
Thus , taking the most rapid rise of all ( caesium chloride ) , where the level changed by a height equivalent to 3 .
in 10 minutes , while the amount of steam condensed in the condenser was 30 , the consequent volmne change in the bubbles is only about 9 per cent. , and the area per cent. This quantity may be neglected in view of the fact that the rise of level is largely caused by steam condensing ( and running back into the solution ) on the exposed walls of the boiling vessel , which may be taken to be covered by a relatively cold film of solution thrown there by the breaking bubbles .
That this explanation is correct is shown by the fact that , with all the salts , the depth of liquid had no appreciable influence on the rate at which the level rose ; in other words , the rise is approximately independent of the number of steam bubbles in contact with the liquid .
Results for the .\mdash ; In view of the previous discussion , it may be assumed that the curve of boiling point plotted against height of liquid is a hyperbola .
On this assumption we have extrapolated to a height , by two methods , one by calculation from equation ( 2 ) of the previous paper , and the other by a very convenient method suggested to us by Mr. A. F. Pedder , of Magdalen College ( Oxford).\mdash ; See Appendix II .
For the first method we passed a smooth curve through the experimental points , and using this curve to obtain the constants of the equation , we deduced a value for when ; in the second method , which is applicable to any hyperbola ( not necessarily one which cuts the axis of temperatures at right angles ) , we extrapolated from the actual experimental points to the point where the curve cuts the temperature axis .
The greatest diyergence between the results of the two methods was C. for sodium nitrate , where experiments , owing to the high solubility , were somewhat inaccurate .
Except for this discrepancy , the deviation was never greater than , and was usually much less .
We would lay considerable emphasis on this fact ; for it seems to be confirmatory evidence for the validity of the various assumptions that we ill .
] Boiling Points of some Saturated Aqueous Solutions .
501 have made during the theoretical discussion both in this communication and in that on the boiling point of water .
The means of the two methods of extrapolating are given in the following table and are the final results for .
The second column gives the height of the barometer to which the boiling points given in the third column have been corrected , while the fourth column gives the points corrected to 760 mm. pressure and to sea level and latitude .
The fifth column gives Buchanan 's values extrapolated to a barometer pressure of 760 mm. Experimental Error.\mdash ; In view of the close agreement shown to obtain in the two methods of extrapolation , and also in the two sets of observations for TICI and we think we may say that the final boiling points probably do not differ from the truth by more than C. ; this involves all errors in the barometer coefficients , but the actually observed boiling points for the same height and rate of bubbling agree more closely .
The Osmotic Pressures.\mdash ; One of us pointed out in a letter to ' Nature '*that osmotic pressures derived from vapour-pressure observations can be measured in two ways\mdash ; one , with the pressure on the solvent constant , and the other with the constant pressure on the solution ; in the former case , as can be seen from Prof. Porter 's fundamental equation , it is necessary to determine the space occupied by the solvent in the solution , and this involves a series of 'Nature , ' 1906 , vol. 74 , p. 7 .
' Boy .
Soc. Proc , 1907 , vol. 79 , p. 521 .
502 The Earl of Berkeley and Mr. M. P. Appleby .
[ Mar. 23 , measurements of the compressibilities together with the densities of the solutions .
Prof. 's fundamental equation , for the case where the pressure on the solution is its own vapour pressure , becomes* where is the vapour-pressure of the solvent when under the hydrostatic pressure of its own vapour , is the vapour-pressure of the solution , is the specific volume of the vapour , is the specific volume of the pure solvent , is the hydrostatic pressure , and is the osmotic pressure when the solution is under the hydrostatic pressure of its own vapour .
This equation , neglecting the pressure effect of the slightly different vapour-pressures of different solutions , enables us to bring the calculated osmotic pressures of solutions of different solutes ( in the same solvent ) into direct comparison .
It , however , involves ( as the term shows ) a knowledge of the specific volume and compressibility of the pure solvent when under a negative pressure .
Equation ( 1 ) reduces to where is the mean value of the specific volume of water between the limits in the integral ; this value , in the calculations , has been obtained by extrapolating to negative pressures the known compressibility of water .
The results of the calculations are given in the following table:\mdash ; Table 1911 .
] Boiling Points of some Saturated Aqueous Solutions .
503 The values for the numbers within the brackets are obtained from an earlier communication to the Society , the boiling points are not very accurate ; we have not yet been able to get satisfactory results with these salts .
It is noticeable that the numbers in the last column for alkali salts which have the same anion seem to increase with increasing molar concentration .
On comparing the numbers in the fourth and fifth columns it will be seen that all the salts , except , are dissociated .
As already mentioned , the results for are not reliable , but in view of the importance of such an exception we are making further experiments to decide the question .
ArPlBNDIX I. SolubJilities and Densities of Saturated Soiutions of Strontium iVitrate.\mdash ; The densities and solubilities of all the salts dealt with in this communication , except strontium nitrate , were recorded together with the method of work in a previous paper ; the following results for the strontium salt were obtained in the manner therein detailed:\mdash ; These densities and solubilities were plotted against the temperature , and were found to give a transition point of C. and C. respectively .
Mulder ( from Landolt and Bornstein ) obtained and Etard C. for this point .
The discrepancy is so large that it was thought advisable to make some further observations ; the results are given below .
A cooling curve of the saturated solution of a sample which had been used ' Phil. Trans , 1904 , vol. 203 .
' Annals , ' [ 7 ] , vol. 2 , p. 528 .
504 Boiling Points of some Aqueous Solutions .
for the boiling points gave the transition point as , when the supercooling had been .
Another similar sample after recrystallisation also gave ( super-cooling ) .
An experiment made with a dilatometer , using turpentine as index liquid , gave the transition point as APPENDIX II .
Given four points , and , on a hyperbola which has an asymptote parallel to axis of reference ( see the diagram ) ; required to find the point of intersection between the hyperbola and .
The points and a point I , on the asymptote at infinity , may be regarded as five of the uIar points of a hexagon inscribed in the hyperbola ; a sixth point is on By a well-known theorem the points of intersection of the ' pairs of opposite sides of a hexagon inscribed in a conic lie on a straight line .
Join AB and produce it to cut ID produced ( the ordinate through D ) at Pendulum Ctocks and their Errors .
505 ; join BC and produce it to cut the side OY at ; join .
Join DC and produce it to cut OF in ; join GA and produce it to cut OY in H. It is easy to see that is the point required .
Pendulum Clocks their Errors .
By H. R. A. MALLOCK , F.B.S. ( Received May 27 , \mdash ; Read June 29 , 1911 .
) The measurement of time by pendulum clocks is one of the most accurate measures in daily use , but even with the best existing clocks it is not uncommon to find that the rate may vary from time to time by as much as half a second a day , roughly about 1 part in 150,000 .
Clocks are rated by comparison with the rotation of the earth , which is assumed to be constant , and it is a matter of some interest to inquire into the possibility of making a clock good enough to rate the earth by .
The radual reduction of the angular velocity of the earth as deduced from astronomical data used to be taken as about 22 seconds per century , * but I believe that this estimate is now considered too high .
At any rate , if a clock is to be accurate enough to give a measure of the change in the earth 's angular velocity , it must have a variation of rate not much one second per century , or about 1 part in 3,000,000,000 .
It seems hardly possible that this order of accuracy should be reached by any mechanical appliance .
In the following notes , however , I have staved the various causes which may about a change in the rate of a pendulum , and the permissible variation of the different arguments involved if the variation of rate due to each of them is not to exceed 1 part in 100,000,000 .
The causes of variation of rate may be grouped under three heads , namely : ( a ) Such as would affect a pendulum swinging freely in vacvo .
( b ) Variations due to the action of the atmosphere on a free pendulum .
( e ) Variations due to the action of the mechanism which maintains the vibration .
Of these it will be seen that ( c ) is the most important and the most * Thomson and Tait , vol. 1 , Part I , p. 400 .
Yariation of the length of the day due to contraction by secular cooling would not be indicated by a pendulum clock .

