Description of an extraordinary Human Foetus .
In a Letter from Mr. Benjamin Gibson , Surgeon , to H. Leigh Thomas , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 8 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 123 .
] Although instances of human bodies nearly entire , united side by side , or back to back , or otherwise , are by no means rare in the collections of anatomists ; and although such a conjunction is generally not connected with any peculiarity in the organs which compose them , and lead the physiologist to anticipate nothing curious in their internal configuration ; -yet , where some parts are found double , and others single , the resources of nature become apparent in adjusting parts which have naturally no connexion .
Such is the instance here described ; and it appears peculiarly interesting , from the consideration , that the system of deviation was apparently compatible with life ; for if the difficulty of the birth had not proved almost immediately fatal , the complexity of the structure would probably have formed no impediment to its existence .
This curious production had two heads , placed side by side , united to one body , with two legs and two arms .
The countenance of the one appeared to the author to be male , and of the other female ; and the conformation of the organs of generation , which partook of both sexes , confirmed that persuasion .
The trunk , though appearing as one body , was broader than natural ; and it was evident , even from external examination , that there were two spines corresponding to the two heads .
These were found to terminate in a double os sacrum , tipped with two ossa coccygis ; there were consequently two vertebral canals , independent of each other .
The chest in front was nearly as usual , with the common number of ribs on each side ; but there were also , in the middle of the back , short bones , which must be considered as ribs connecting the two spines to each other .
The chest was divided by its mediastinum into two cavities .
In the right was one lung connected with the right head , and in the left another belonging to the left head , without any mutual communication .
On inspecting the vascular system , there were found to be two hearts ; that on the left , and corresponding with the male head , was much the larger of the two ; but they both had the usual number of auricles , and were enclosed in separate pericardia .
The principal difference in the distribution of their vessels was observable in the veins ; as the vena cava superior was wanting on the right side , and the right heart received its blood by the vena cava inferior alone ; while that on the left had its principal supply by a large vena cava superior , which brought the blood from the jugulars of the right head and right subclavian , as well as from those of its own side .
But , on the contrary , the vena cava inferior was comparatively very small .
With respect to the arteries , the difference was not considerable , as they each sent off their respective aorta and pulmonary artery , and each supplied their respective head by two carotids , and their corresponding arm by one axillary artery ; after which the two arches united into one trunk as descending aorta .
Little irregularity was observable in the cavity of the common abdomen , the stomach of which was connected with an oesophagus from the left head ; but in a second abdominal cavity , formed by an oblique position of the diaphragm , there was also a smaller stomach belonging to the right head , with a spleen , pancreas , and omentum ; but the duodenum from this stomach soon communicated with that from the left side , and the remainder of the intestinal canal was continued onwards , with little deviation from the natural structure .
The organs of generation were very remarkable , as they distinctly partook of both sexes ; for though , in the external parts , the character of the male was predominant , with two testes in the act of passing into the scrotum , yet , in some respects , certain deviations belonging to the female were even here apparent ; and , upon internal examination , an uterus was discovered imbedded in the posterior part of the bladder , from which Fallopian tubes were given off at each side near its upper part .
The author next examined carefully the distribution of the nerves , and found , in general , extremely little connexion between them , excepting at the semilunar ganglion , which was composed of nerves derived equally from both sides .
Each brain , for instance , gave origin to an eighth pair of nerves , that supplied , as usual , the heart , the lungs , and the stomach belonging to its own side of the body , and then gave branches , as usual , to the semilunar ganglion .
A pair of intercostals also proceeded from each head .
The left intercostal from one , and the right intercostal from the other , proceeded as usual ; but those which passed down between the two spines , and adjacent to each other , neither gave off nor received communicating branches , and did not form the usual ganglia , for want of all the cervical , dorsal , and lumbar nerves excepting the first cervical .
The other nerves were in general distributed as if the body had had but one spine : thus the nerves of the right arm were supplied from the right side of the right spinal marrow , and those of the left arm came from the left side of the left spinal marrow .
The author next proceeds to such remarks as naturally arise from the contemplation of so singular a production .
And the first observation is , that although there were here combined , in the same system , duplicates of several parts , yet there appeared , upon inspection , to be no reason why the functions of life might not have been properly performed .
An apparent uniformity prevailed throughout , without abruptness , in the transition from the double to the single structure .
Two stomachs terminated in one track of intestines , somewhat more capacious than usual .
Although the vascular system was furnished with two hearts , the principal vessels were arranged and united together , so that no impediment seemed to exist to the circulation of the blood .
For regulating the supply of blood to each heart , a communication was established between the vena cava superior of one heart , and the vena cava inferior of the other .
The nervous system presents also a wide field for conjecture .
The function of the two brains appeared to be as independent of each other as those of any two individuals of the same family ; and the reasoning faculties , it is presumed , might have been very opposite , excepting so far as they would have been influenced by the same habits , and by the same course of education ; and their sensual inclinations ( if any such existed ) would probably be very different .
As the vital organs conspired together in carrying on the same process of life , so did the nerves of these involuntary parts unite for the same purpose , though originating from different heads .
But , on the contrary , those nerves which supply the voluntary organs were as completely unconnected with each other as if they had belonged to different bodies .
So that although in all involuntary and indispensable functions there would probablyhave been the most perfect harmony , considerable inconvenience might have arisen , where locomotion was concerned , if the two heads , thus inseparably coupled , had not had the same inclination .

