370 Studies on Enzyme Action .
XVIII.\#151 ; Enzymes of the Emulsin Type .
( Ill ) Linase and other Enzymes in Linacece .
By H. E. Armstrong , F.B.S. , and J. Vargas Eyre , M.A. , Ph. D. ( Received April 3 , \#151 ; Read May 16 , 1912 .
) [ International Catalogue of Scientific Literature .
Author 's title slip :\#151 ; D. K. M. Subject slips:\#151 ; D 8014 Enzymes of the emulsin type\#151 ; linase .
1 D 8030 Variations of glucoside and enzyme in linseed .
D 65251 " \#174 ; nzymes *n Linaceae .
] In No. XIII of these studies , communicated to the Society early in 1910 , a long series of observations was recorded from which the conclusion was deduced that the glucoside extracted from the seeds of the wild variety of Phaseolus lunatus and the enzyme associated with the glucoside both belong to the / 8-series , a conclusion not in harmony with that arrived at previously by Dunstan , Henry and Auld.* The glucoside termed by Dunstan and Henry was first isolated from young flax plants in 1891 by Jorissen and Hairs , f by whom it was named Linamarin .
Jorissen had previously found that " emulsin " had no action on the cyanophoric constituent of flax , though the glucoside was readily attacked by the enzyme occurring in the seed .
Jorissen 's discovery was confirmed in 1903 by Dunstan , Henry and Auld .
The flax enzyme , according to their statement , has a range of activities similar to that of almond-emulsin , readily hydrolysing amygdalin and salicin .
J There is nothing to show , however , that their conclusion was based on quantitative determinations .
On account of this statement and on various other grounds , it appeared to us that it was desirable to study the " enzyme " in flax more thoroughly : one reason in particular was our desire to discover a material from which we could obtain the enzyme whenever necessary , for assuming that the two plants yield the same enzyme , as linseed is so easily procured , it obviously is a far more convenient source of the enzyme than is Phaseolus lunatus , a seed which is no longer on sale in this country .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1906 , B , vol. 78 , p. 145 ; 1907 , B , vol. 79 , p. 315 .
+ ' Bull .
Acad. Roy .
Belg. , ' 1891 , vol. 21 , p. 529 .
t It is asserted by Dunstan , Henry and Auld that\#151 ; " In subsequent papers , Jorissen stated that both Linum 'usitatissimumand Lin contain amygdalin in the leaves and stems .
" This is incorrect .
Jorissen speaks of " an amygdalin , " not of actual amygdalin , using the term in a generic sense as meaning a substance which behaves like amygdalin on hydrolysis .
Studies on Enzyme Action .
The observations we were able to make with several of the during the season of 1910 were of such interest in connexion with our inquiry into the nature and distribution of enzymes and in other respects also , that we were led to extend the inquiry to the family generally during the past year ; we , therefore , grew all the species we could procure ; this work was carried on simultaneously with that recorded in the two previous communications and that on Lotus comiculatus .
We propose in future to speak of the specific enzyme corresponding to linamarin as linase , as it appears to be present in so large a number of species of Linacece as to be characteristic of the genus .
A question of primary importance to be answered was whether the properties deduced from the study of the effects produced by " tase " were those characteristic of a single enzyme linase or due to a mixture of enzymes .
Armstrong and Horton , in agreement with Dunstan and his co-workers , came to the conclusion that the " enzyme " extracted from Phaseolus lunatus is practically without action on amygdalin ; they found , however , that it acted readily on prunasin as well as on linamarin ( phaseolunatin ) .
How that it is established that " emulsin " is a mixture of several enzymes , one of which resolves amygdalin into glucose and prunasin , it is obviously easy to explain the difference between the behaviour of the Phaseolus enzyme and that of emulsin\#151 ; to realise , in fact , that it is due to the absence of amygdalase from the Phaseolus preparation .
But whilst both linamarin and prunasin are hydrolysed by the Phaseolus " enzyme , " prunase , the correlate of prunasin\#151 ; whether it be prepared from the almond or ( as shown in the previous communication ) from any other source\#151 ; is without action on linamarin .
It is important that the significance of this difference should be fully understood .
The two glucosides are represented by the following formulae :\#151 ; CH3 CH3\#151 ; C.CH i O C6Hu05 Linamarin .
H c6h5\#151 ; c.ch I o CeHnOs Prunasin .
The recognition of two distinct enzymes , each corresponding to one of these two compounds , the one ( linase ) capable of determining the hydrolysis of both glucosides , the other ( prunase ) limited in its action to the single glucoside to which it corresponds , would be a fact of no slight consequence in connexion with the theory of enzyme action .
Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. J. V. Eyre .
[ Apr. 3 , The conclusion that both glucosides can be hydrolysed by one enzyme ( linase ) rests , however , at present , on the observations made with the enzyme or enzymes extracted from the Phaseolus bean ; hence the importance of ascertaining the effect produced by enzymes obtained from other sources .
Whatever their range of activity , as the activity of both enzymes is much diminished by the presence of glucose , it is to be supposed that both are so constructed that each can fit the glucose section of its " co-glucoside " while in correspondence also with the radicle with which the glucose residue is in association ; so that if it be proved eventually that only the enzyme corresponding to the simpler compound is compatible with both glucosides , it will follow that the smaller key can be passed into both locks but that the larger will not fit into that to which the smaller key properly belongs .
The problem whether linase can exercise such a dual activity , therefore , is one of very great interest .
Hydrogen Cyanide from I/ inacece .
Of late years , much uneasiness has been felt in agricultural circles owing to statements that have been made that hydrogen cyanide may be present even to a dangerous extent in linseed cake .
There is no doubt that usually , if not always , it can be detected in the commercial article .
In view of the constant presence of linamarin in the green plant and the unripe seed , this is not surprising .
During the past two years we have studied the seed systematically from this point of view .
It is easy to detect hydrogen cyanide even in a single flax seed by means of Guignard 's picrate test .
For this purpose , a convenient length\#151 ; 2 or 3 inches\#151 ; of narrow quill tubing is sealed at one end and rounded in the flame at the other ; a similar piece of narrower tube , which will just slide into the wider tube , is also prepared ; and an air-tight joint between the two tubes is provided by means of a short length of narrow rubber tubing .
After the seed to be tested has been pricked in several places with a pin , it is placed at the bottom of the larger tube together with a drop of water and a minute drop of chloroform .
A diamond-shaped piece of moist picrate paper , a few square millimetres in area , having been fixed in the open end of the narrower tube , this tube is adjusted within the wider tube so that the picrate paper is just above the seed .
The tube is then maintained at about 35 ' in an incubator or simply kept in the waistcoat breast pocket .
If cyanide be present , the yellow paper darkens and becomes orange or orange-red within 24\#151 ; 48 hours .
We had fairly satisfied ourselves during 1910 that the presence or absence of the cyanide was dependent on the degree of maturity of the seed ; we 1912.1 Studies on Enzyme Action .
were able , during the past season , which was so exceptionally favourable to ripening , to place this conclusion beyond doubt .
Ripe seeds were always found to be free from cyanide but we have invariably detected it in unripe seeds .
Flax being a plant which continues , during a considerable period , to flower and produce seed , the seeds never ripen all at once , so that when the crop is harvested the plants always carry a mixture of ripe and unripe seed : it is therefore easy to understand the presence of cyanide in the commercial cake .
The tendency has been to regard the potential presence of hydrogen cyanide in linseed cake as harmful but taking the very special and peculiar properties of the cyanide into account , it may well be that it is of positive condimental value and that the peculiar value of linseed cake as a cattle food is at least in part due to the liberation of minute proportions of such a substance.* Hydrogen cyanide was detected by Jorissen in only two of the Linaceae , X. usitatissimum and X. perenne .
During 1910 , owing to the kindness of Dr. Hugo Muller , we were able to test several of the yellow flowered species , in addition .
Last year , we procured seed from various European Botanic gardens and from seedsmen of as many varieties of Linacese as possible and grew these ourselves .
A considerable proportion of the seeds we obtained bore fancy names and proved to be varieties either of X. usitatissimum or of X. angustifolium or X. We were able to satisfy ourselves that all the species resembling either ordinary flax ( X. usitatissimum ) or X. perenne in general habit of growth , carrying white , blue or red ( X. grandijtoruni ) flowers , were more or less richly cyanophoric ; we uniformly failed , however , in obtaining hydrogen cyanide from the yellow-flowered species ( X. arboreum , X. etc. ) .
The amount of cyanophoric glucoside present in different species is different and is subject to variation throughout the period of growth .
In the case of X. , the maximum proportion is reached at a very early stage but even when mature and full of seed this species still contains cyanide .
In the case of X. perenne , the mature foliage may contain no cyanide , although it is easily detected in the young shoots .
Linum grandijiorum appears to contain the major proportion of cyanide at the flowering period.j* * Compare * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , B , vol. 84 , p. 471 .
t Note added June 24 , 1912.\#151 ; The observations have now been extended to other species of blue-flowering Linaceae , and evidence has been obtained that besides X. 'perenne several others , namely L. narbonense , L. hologynum , and L. , also lose the cyanophoric glucoside at quite an early stage of their development .
Up to the present the following yellow-flowering species have been examined:\#151 ; L. arboreum , L. campanulatum , L. jlavum , L. jlavum , L. Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. J. V. Eyre .
[ Apr. 3 , A very extended series of observations must be undertaken if the manner in which variation in the amount of cyanide takes place throughout the period of growth in various species is to be fully elucidated : the inquiry is in progress .
, One of the authors has had the opportunity during the past summer of studying the growth of flax in various districts in Europe where it is systematically cultivated and has thus been able to gather much information of a suggestive character .
Many who have carefully studied the growth of flax from a commercial standpoint freely express the belief that flax is a plant which rapidly becomes adapted to new conditions of soil and climate\#151 ; they say it degenerates .
There are instances of seed taken from a blue-flowering crop giving a crop of flax bearing white flowers when raised under different conditions of climate ; in this connexion it is of interest to observe that when seed from uniformly blue-flowered flax , grown in the Baltic Provinces , is grown in Holland , Belgium or some more southern country , it always gives a crop containing numerous white-flowering plants in the first year ; on the other hand , white-flowering flax is not stable in the more central parts of Russia , passing almost completely into the blue form in about four seasons .
It is often stated , on good authority , that the characteristics of good fibre-flax become lost to some considerable degree when the plant is repeatedly grown in Holland or Belgium ; a healthy crop of tall , straightstemmed flax becoming less tall , coarser in stem and generally inferior , besides being less able to resist disease after growing during four or five years in succession .
Again , in South Russia , a form of flax is grown , known as " Steppe-seed " flax , which exhibits a greater tendency to branch and to carry seed and does not attain the height of the flax grown in the North for the production of fibre .
When " Steppe-seed " is taken north and grown in the cooler and moist regions , the plant gradually changes its character and , after four or five years ' acclimatisation , the crop raised from such seed is quite as tall as the usual fibre crops and the fibre it yields is equal to that usually produced in the district .
In view of this kind of information and the somewhat obscure relationship between the various forms , it will be of interest to compare carefully the different varieties of Linum usitatissivnum from various points of view .
It is thought in the Baltic provinces that the fibre is spoilt if the seed be and L. gallicum ( ?
) ; no trace of hydrogen cyanide has been detected either in the young or in the mature foliage .
It is possible that small quantities of linamarin and its " co-enzyme " are present at some very early stage but if so the period must be of short duration .
Studies on Enzyme Action .
1912 .
] allowed to ripen upon the plant\#151 ; the nature is said to be drained out of it ; the tops carrying the seed are therefore cut off and allowed to ripen separately by exposure to the sun on rough drying frames .
The seed is often afterwards put into a heated chamber to advance the ripening and drying , so that it may be put upon the market .
The accumulation of linamarin in the seed takes place at a comparatively late stage , though the glucoside disappears eventually .
The very young seed pod affords only a faint indication of hydrogen cyanide ; the largest amount is obtained when the seed assumes a full green colour .
There is a coincident increase in the proportion of enzyme , as shown by the following results obtained by digesting 1 grm. of the entire seed capsule with a solution of linamarin:\#151 ; Capsules Very small .
Medium size .
1 Fully grown .
Percentage of activity 0-8 1-25 9 75 The Enzymic Activity of the Linacece .
We have applied the method developed in the two previous communications to the study of the enzymes present in the leaf and seed of various species of Linacese , and have dealt with more than 60 reputed species .
It is a striking fact that apparently , in this genus as in that of Lotus , enzymic activity is correlated with the presence of a cyanophoric glucoside the yellow-flowered species , which are free from cyanide , show little if any enzymic activity towards Linamarin , amygdalin , prunasin and salicin .
The fact is , perhaps , not without significance that these species are all slow in germinating and slow in growth .
Some of the results obtained with the various species , showing the enzymic activity of leaf and seed , are recorded in Tables I and II ; the values given in Table II are calculated from those given in Table I , supposing the degree of activity towards Linamarin to be the same in all cases .
The results obviously require interpretation from various points of view .
It is clear , in the first place , that a variety of enzymes are present in the leaf and seed of the various species and that the proportions in which they are present are subject to considerable variation .
The activity towards linamarin may safely be attributed to linase and linase alone .
L. catharticum is the only one of the species examined which has a low degree of enzymic activity and almost no action on linamarin ; this species also affords but a small proportion of hydrogen cyanide .
Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. J. V. Eyre .
[ Apr 3 Table I. Material examined .
Leaf .
Seed .
Linacese .
Glucosides .
Glucosides .
Lin .
Amy .
Prun .
1 Sal .
Lin .
Amy .
1 Prun .
1 Sal .
| L. grandijlorum rubrum ... 75 *7 4-7 80 -2 63*3 67-5 24*5 41 -5 r J 20-4 L. grandijlorum roseum ... \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 69-8 21 -2 36 -2 L. usitatissimum 1 80*7 3-7 36 -7 33*0 73 -1 10*0 33*5 31 *7 If .
usitatissimum album ... 78*5 ' 3 *3 67 *7 34 *7 71 *5 7*2 39-7 35 *0 L. alpinum !
77 *7 3 *0 58 -2 \#151 ; L. lewisii ( perenne ) j 51 *2 4 *5 21 *2 \#151 ; \#151 ; I. catharticum 1 1 5 0 8 13-5 8*0 \#151 ; \#166 ; JO .
perenne \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 11 -7 2-8 8-7 | L. perenne album i 1 l 87 -0 1 5*5 33 *3 ~ 1 17 *2 5-2 12 *5 \#151 ; Table II .
Material examined .
Leaf .
Seed , Glucosides .
Glucosides .
Jjinaceae .
Lin .
Amy .
Prun .
1 Sal .
| Lin .
j Amy .
J Prun .
Sal .
L. grandijlorum rubrum ... 80*7 5-0 85 *5 67 -5 80*7 29*2 49*6 24*3 L. grandijlorum roseum ... \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 80*7 24*5 41 *8 \#151 ; L. usitatissimum 80-7 3-7 36 -7 33 -0 80*7 11 *0 36*9 35 *0 L. usitatissimum album ... 80-7 3 -4 69 -6 44 a4 80*7 8*1 44*8 39*5 L. perenne \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 80*7 19 *8 60*0 \#151 ; L. perenne album \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; , 80*7 24 *4 58 *6 \#151 ; L. catharticum 80-7 43 *0 726*3 430 *0 _ \#151 ; The results recorded in No. XIII of these studies show that the " enzyme " of Phaseolus lunatus is about equally active towards linamarin and prunasin .
As already pointed out , it in no way follows from this result that linase is equally active towards these two glucosides ; the hydrolysis of the prunasin may have been due in part , if not entirely , to prunase being present together with linase .
It is clear that some such reservation must be made in view of the results given in the above tables : in only one case ( Z. grandijlorum ) is the activity towards linamarin and prunasin equal ; in half a dozen , the prunase value was about half the magnitude of the linase value , showing that linase is not equally active towards the two glucosides and that\#151 ; as is to be expected\#151 ; it is more active towards the correlated glucoside .
It is clear that " prunase " accompanies linase both in Phaseolus lunatus and in many Linacece and from this point of view the high prunase value given Studies on Enzyme Action .
1912 .
] by L.catharticum is of interest .
It may well happen that linase se will be found to be without action on prunasin\#151 ; such a conclusion would be justified , if a case could be found in which the values given under linamarin and prunasin for L. catharticum were reversed .
The problem is similar to that presented by " emulsin , " which in the course of these studies has been proved to contain at least two distinct enzymes , amygdalase and prunase , both of which are concerned in the resolution of amygdalin .
Prunase having been found without linase in many plants , the problem now before us is , if possible , to find linase without prunase .
These arguments will at least serve to indicate the importance of the inquiry on which we are engaged and the value of the method which has been devised of studying plant enzymes comparatively .
To consider the other materials hydrolysed , the amount of " amygdalase " in the leaf material is evidently small but in the seed , in the case of L. grandijlorum , the amount indicated is surprisingly large , particularly when the low values given under prunasin are considered .
But evidently much depends on the period of growth , as shown by the following values ( percentage activities ) given by L. grandijlorum rubrum ( leaf material ) in June and September , 1911:\#151 ; Linamarin .
Prunasin .
Amygdalin .
June i 86 74 1*7 September 79 1 80 4-7 It is noteworthy ( Table I ) that whilst the prunasin values obtained with leaf materials are all very high relatively to the " amygdalin " values , in the seed there is not the same disproportion between them , the amygdalin values increasing apparently at the expense of the prunasin values .
As amygdalin is not present in the seed , it does not seem probable that the high amygdalin values are due to the presence of amygdalase ; a more probable explanation perhaps is that vicianase or an allied enzyme is present , especially in the seed .
The salicin values appear to bear no direct relationship to the linamarin values and are always below the prunasin values though often very near to these latter .
It is a question whether linase has any action on salicin .
Prunase apparently has the power of hydrolysing salicin and as the prunasin values are never lower than the salicin values but often in excess of them , it is not improbable that salicin is less readily hydrolysed by prunase than is prunasin and that some other enzyme other than prunase , capable of hydrolysing prunasin but not salicin , may be present at times together with Dr. H. L. Duke .
Relation of Fowls and [ May 9 prunase .
This conclusion is perhaps more in harmony with that indicated above that vicianase may be present together with linase .
Such briefly are the problems before us .
It may be that the differences observed are in some cases due to faulty determinations and much remains to be done in establishing valid methods of determining enzymic activity .
But differences such as we have referred to are met with so constantly that it is clear that they correspond to actual variations in character and proportion of the enzymes present in plants .
Observations on Howls and Ducks in Uganda with Relation to Trypanosoma gallinarum and T. gambiense .
By Dr. H. L. Duke .
( With a Note by Miss Muriel Robertson .
) ( Communicated by Sir J. R. Bradford , K.C.M.G. , Sec. R.S. Received May 9 , \#151 ; Read June 6 , 1912 .
) [ Plate 9 .
] In the course of a considerable number of experiments , carried out to investigate the duration of infectivity of antelopes for T. gambiense , Uganda fowls were employed to nourish the flies during the earlier days of the experiments .
The birds have been shown by the Commission of 1908-10 to harbour T. gallinarum in a certain number of instances , although nothing was known concerning the intermediate host of this trypanosome .
In the course of routine dissections of laboratory-bred flies from these experiments a curious crithidial type of flagellate was noticed in the hinder part of the mid-gut , similar to that reported recently from this laboratory by Captain A. D. Eraser and myself .
These flagellates must have been derived either from the antelope upon which the flies originally fed or from the cock .
In morphology and movement they were distinguishable at once from developmental stages of T. gambiense in As some of the laboratory antelope had been found to be infected with T. ingens it appeared possible that the flagellates might represent developmental stages of this trypanosome .
On the other hand suspicion fell upon T. gallinarum , although at the time microscopical examination of the fowls used had always proved negative .
To solve the point clean laboratory-bred flies were fed upon the suspected cocks , with the result that after two failures the crithidise were obtained in

