]\gt ; [ 507 ] XIII .
On the Velocities of the Ions .
W. C. DAMPIER WHETHAM , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOMSON , F.R. Received May 2 , \mdash ; Read } , 1895 .
IN a previous communication to the Royal Society Phil. Trans 184 ( 1893 ) , p. 337 ) , I have described a method of experimentally determining the velocities of the ions during electrolysis , by observations on the phenomena at the junction of two salt solutions , one at least of which is coloured , when a current of electricity is passed from one to the other .
For the success of the method it is necessary to choose two solutions which ( l ) are different in density , ( 2 ) different in colour , and ( 3 ) have nearly equal conductivities at equivalent concentrations , i.e. , when the number of gram-molecules dissolved in llitre of solution is the same for both .
These conditions seriously restrict the number of cases to which the method is applicable , but the results obtained for copper and for the bichromate group agree well with the values theoretically deduced by KOHLRATTSCH from measurement , s of the conductivity .
Alcoholic solutions of cobalt nitrate and chloride were also used , and the sum of the velocities of the opposite ions , in each case,..observed in my experiments , was as nearly as could be expected , the same as their sum calculated from the conductiyities by KOHLRAUSCH'S method .
In order to extend the method to cases in which there was no colour to be observed , I have returned to the use of solid solutions in agar-agar jelly , by means of which the first direct experimental measurement of the velocity of an ion was made by Dr. LODGE Report , , who traced the course of the hydrogen ion as it travelled along a tube filled with ajelly solution of sodium chloride , forming hydrochloric acid , and decolorizing phenol-phthallein as it went .
Dr. LODGE tried to determine the velocity of other ions , such as barium , by tracing the precipitates which they formed with suitable reagents , but the results were not satisfactory .
The chief objections to the use of precipitates in jelly solutions are ( 1 ) the jelly exudes from the tube under the action of the current ; ( 2 ) the formation of the precipitate withdraws some of the electrolyte from the solution , and hence changes in conductivity result , which alter the potential gradient , or form surfaces separating liquids of different , over which distributions of electrification will occur , 22 .
The motion of the jeIly as a whole is very slow compared with the speed of the ions , and : if we can measure the velocity while the ions are only moving over a small distance in a short time , it need not affect the result by disturbing the experiment in any other way .
In order to test whether trustworthy observations could be made with jelly solutions , I determined the velocity of the bichromate group when travelling through them .
Decinormal solutions of potassium bichromate and potassium chloride were used in the manner presently to be described , and the velocity of the ion under unit potential-gradient ( one volt per centimetre ) came out centim. per second .
In the earlier investigation the same group travelled through an aqueous solution of the same strength with a velocity of centim. per second .
The of the jelly thus appears to be only slightly to retard the motions .
Moreover , RHENIus has shown ( ' B.A. Report , ' 1886 , p. 344 ) that the viscosity of jelly solutions has but a small influence on the conductivity .
The.iteration in concentration , due to the formation of a precipitate , appears to have been very considerable in Dr. LODGE'S experiments , and may explain his uncertain results .
It can , however , be made very small in the following way .
Instead of setting up , in contact with each other , two solutions , like barium chloride and sodium sulphate , which complete]y precipitate each other , the solutions used were barium chloride ) sodium chloride , just enough sodium sulphate being added to the latter to enable the motion of the barium ions to be traced by watching the formation of a slight precipitate of sulphate .
That this did not seriously affect the result was shown by repeating.the experiment with less sodium sulphate .
The specific ionic velocity theu came out centim. per second , a number agreeing with that first obtained , , quite as well as the errors of experiment would lead us expect .
The use of jelly solutions , and of precipitates as indicators , being thus justified , many ions could ) examined which could not have had their velocity determined by neans of a colour boundary .
KOHLRAUSCH has lately given corrected values for a number of ionic velocities Wied .
, and , in some cases , tabulated them for solutions of various concentrations .
It was , therefore , convenient to determine some of these , and barium , calcium , silver and the group , present in , were chosen as convenient examples .
The apparatus used and the method of measurement were the same as those of the former estigation .
Two vertical glass tubes , about 2 centims. in diameter , were joined by a third , considerably narrower , which was bent parallel to the others for the greater part of its length .
elly solution was melted and poul.ed into the longer limb till it about half filled it , was allowed to cool and solidify .
The other solution was then poured into the orter limb , and , when it solid , the whole was placed in a glass water-bath in front of a window , with a transparent glass scale fixed behind MR. W. C. D. WHETHAM ON THE VELOCITIES OF THE IONS .
the junction tube .
A precipitate formed at the surface of contact between the two soIutions , and , when a current was passed from one ] atinum electrode to the other , the precipitate gradually spread upward or downwards with a velocity which could be measured on the scale by means of a telescope .
Fig. 1 .
If the potential gradient at the junction is , we have where represents the total current , the specific resiscance of the solution , and the area of cross-section of the tube .
If be the observed velocity , the specific velocity for unit potential gradient is given by r2 A is determined by filling a known length of the tube with water or mercury , is read off on a galvanometer previously graduated , and is determined by KoHLRAUSCH'S method of a Wheatstone 's bridge with alternating currents .
In order that the method should be a success , it is necessary that the solutions should be of nearly equal specific esistance , so that a mean value of may be taken .
The slight disturbing effect of any small difference shown in the former paper to be eliminated if measurements be made when the current is passing in both directions , and the mean taken .
But , unlike the colour boundary nlethod , the formation of a precipitate is an irreversible process , so that measurements of the velocity can only be made when the current passes in one direction .
All that can be done is to choose solutions of 3 : nearly equal specific 1esistance , so that the uncertainty , which mn st appear in the , shall be , at all events , as small as possible .
solutions of sodium chloride and barium chloride , the former containing a little sodium ] phate , were made up with agar jelly just strong enough to set .
The resistance of each was determined in a cell of the form shown in fig. 2 , Fig. 2 .
the constant of which was known , and gave the conductivity of any solution in reciprocals of legal ohms , by dividing by the observed resistance measured in legal ohms .
Resistance of sodium chloride solution at ohms .
barium , , , , , , \ldquo ; \ldquo ; , The temperature coefficient of resistance is , therefore , about per cent. per degree , and the mean conductivity of the two solutions at A small tangent galvanometer was adjusted and graduated by passing the current from a freshly prepared Daniell 's cell through it and a box of resistance coils arranged in series .
The following readings were obtained\mdash ; The resistance of the galvanometer and its leads was 10 ohms .
decinormal solution contains one-tenth of the equivalent weight of the snbstance in grams iu of solution , e.g. , grams per litre .
MR. W. C. D. WHETHAM ON THE VELOCITIES OF THE IONS .
The-solutions were then placed in the velocity apparatus , and measurements taken , the temperature of the water bath being The velocity of the junction thus kept constant throughout .
Its mean value is centim. in 10 ' .
The mean galvanometer reading is , which indicates a current equal to that produced by the electromotive force of one Daniell volt ) working through a resistance of ohms .
The area of cross section of the tube is square ceniim .
, and is the reciprocal of We thus get centim. per second .
Experiments presently to be described gave for the temperature coefficient of the velocity the values per cent. at , and per cent. at .
The mean of these is very near the value , , found for the temperature coefficient of the conductivity , and justifies us in using the latter value for the small correction necessary to reduce the observations to , the temperature for which KOHLRAUSCH'S numbers are calculated .
We thus find for the specific ionic velocity of the barium ion , travelling through a decinormal ] ution of barium chloride in solid agar jelly at a temperature of centim. per sec. For an aqueous solution of corresponding strength , KOHLRAUSCH calculates , that , in order to give the observed values to the conductivity and the migration constant , the barium ion must have a specific velocity of centim. per sec. New solutions were then set up , the amount of sodium sulphate being onIyjust enough to give a visible precipitate .
The voltage used was less\mdash ; about 24 instead of 40 , but otherwise the experiments were similar .
The following mean results were obtained:\mdash ; centim. in 10 mins .
Galvanometer .
Therefore .
Mean conductivity of solutions at emperature of water-bath Therefore centim. per sec. , which gives for the velocity of the barium ion at the value centim. per sec. Calcium.\mdash ; The determination of the velocity of the calcium ion was not quite so satisfactory .
The solutions used were decinormal ones of calcium chloride and sodium sodium carbonate being added to the latter as indicator .
The precipitate of calcium carbonate was only visible when a considerable amount of sodium carbonate was present .
This would make the change in concentration , due to the precipitation , considerable , and tend to increase the potential gradient at the boundary , and make the observed velocity greater .
The galvanometel had been moved , so that it was re-graduated .
To these resistances 10 ohms must be added for the galvanometer and leads .
MR. W. C. D. WHETHAM ON THE VELOCITIES OF THE IONS .
Resistance of calcium chloride solution in cell at ohms .
sodium , , , , , , , , Mean conductivity The junction moved the following distances in 10 mins .
: .
Mean centim. Mean galvanometer ding 3 .
Therefore Temperature of water bath .
Area of tube Therefore centim. per sec. , which gives for the specific velocity of the calcium ion , movig a decinormal solution of calcium chloride in jelly at , the value centim. per sec. the corresponding aqueous solution KOHLRAUSCH gives centim. per sec. The temperature coefficient of the velocity was determined for these solutions by cooling the water-bath to Mean conductivity at Velocity , 30 , 34 , 32 , 34 , 32 , 32 , 32 , 32 .
Mean centim. in 10 mins .
Mean galvanometer reading .
Therefore Therefore centim. per sec. , which gives a temperature coefficient , at a mean temperature of , of per cent. per degree .
Silver.\mdash ; Decinormal jelly solutions of silver nitrate and sodium nitrate , latter containing a little sodium chloride , gave in the resistance cell Silver nitrate at ohms .
Sodium , , , , Therefore mean conductivity at 5 ] 4 MR. W. C. D. WHETHAM ON THE VELOCITIES OF THE IONS .
Velocity , 48 , 48 , 48 , 46 , 49 , 50 , 49 , 48 .
Mean centim. in 10 mins .
Mean galvanometer reading .
Therefore Temperature of water-bath , .
Area of cross-section of tube square centim. Therefore centim. per sec. Thus the specific velocity of the silver ion , noving through a decinormal solution of silver nitrate in agarjelly at , is centim. per sec. For the corresponding solution in water , KOHLRAUSCH gives centim. per sec. The temperature coefficient was determined by cooling the water-bath to Mean conductivity at Velocity , 37 , 39 , 40 , 40 , 40 , 41 , 43 , 40 .
Mean centim. in 10 mins .
The electromotive force applied bein the same as before , we can compare this with centim. in 10 mins .
, the velocity at .
The temperature coefficient at the mean temperature of is thus per cent. per degree .
The Group.\mdash ; As an example of an anion the velocity of the group was determined by the use of decinormal jelly solutions of sodium sulphate and sodium chloride , barium chloride bein added to the indicator .
The galvanometer was re-graduated , the following readings being enough for our purpose .
To the resistances 10 ohms must be added for the galvanometer .
70 ohms of sodium chloride solution in cell at sulphate , , , , Therefore mean conductivity at Velocity , 24 , 26 , 26 , 26 , 27 , 27 , 27 , 25 , 24 , 25 , 27 , 27 , 26 , 24 , 25 , 27 , 26 .
Mean centim. in 10 mins .
Mean galvanometer reading .
Therefore Temperature .
Area of cross-section of tube square centim. Therefore centim. per sec. MR. W. C. D. WHETHAM ON THE OF THE IONS .
This gives for the specific ionic velocity of the ion , when travelling through a decinormal soIution of sodium sulphate in agar jelly at cemtim .
per sec. KOHLRAUSCH finds for decinormal potassium sulphate solution in water centim. per sec. Another determination was then made in another tube having a larger area of cross-section sq .
centim. - Temperature .
Mean ] Velocity , 40 , 41 , 44 , 47 , 44 , , 44 , 42 , 44 , 44 , 50 .
Mean ceutim .
in 10 mins .
Nlean galvanometer reading .
Therefore Therefore centim. per sec. , which at gives us centim. per sec. The numbers thus obtained all agree with those deduced from theory , to an accuracy which must be considered to be as great as the unavoidable experimental errors would lead us to expect .
* Certain substances , such as ammonia and acetic acid , are known to have abnormally low conductivities , as long , at all events , as the aqueous solutions containing them are not exceedingly dilute .
It seemed of great interest to examine whether the velocities were , in these cases , proportionately reduced .
The result of an investigation on acetic acid , in which phenol-phthallein was used as has already been published ( ' Philosophical Magazine , ' October , 1894 ) , and gave the velocity of the hydrogen ion travelling through an agar jelly solution containing gram.alent of sodium acetate per litre , as cemtim .
per sec. Now the value given by KOHLRAUSCH for the specific velocity of the hydrogen ion in a solution of hydrochloric acid of this concentration is centim. per sec. , so that , when travelling through acetates , its speed is reduced in the ratio of 1 to 46 .
* It is worthy of remark that the velocities of all the kations measul'ed c , ome out larger than eory requires , while that of one anion comes out less .
It is possible tb this may bc due to the presence of the jelly .
The ratio of the conductivity of a solution of acetic acid , containing gram.equivalent per litre , to that of an equivalent solution of hydrochloric acid is 1 to 62 .
Thus the velocity of the hydrogen ion is reduced in about the same proportion as the conductivity .
In order to examine the velocity of the acetate ion of acetic acid , some substance was needed to serve as indicator .
With ferric salts , acecates give a deep red colour , which is also produced if the solid ferric acetate is dissolved in water .
It is well known that solutions of ferric chloride undergo decomposition into soluble ferric hydroxide and hydrochloric acid , to an amount which increases as the dilution gets greater , and as the temperature rises .
The hydrochloric acid can , in fact , be separated from the hydroxide of iron by dialysis through a membrane of parchment paper .
The electrical conductivity of an aqueous solution of ferric acetate shows that , in this case also , a similar reaction goes on , for it has an ormally low conductivity , comparable with that of equivalent solutions of acetic acid , just as a solution of ferric chloride has an abnormally great conductivity owing to the presence of hydroacid .
The molecular conductivity of an aqueous solution of ferric acetate , containing one-tenth of a gram.-equivalent of iron in one litre , was determined by measuring its resistance in another cell , whose constant was found by filling it with standard solutions of silver nitrate and barium chloride .
The conductivity of any solution could be found by dividing the constant , , by its observed resistance in legal ohms .
A volume of 10 cub. centims. of this solution was then taken , and made up to 100 cub. centims. in a gradnated flask .
This process was repeated three times , with the following results : first column , headed , gives the concentration of the solution in gram.-equivalents of iron per litre ; the second , , gives the observed resistance in the cell ; the third , shows the temperature ; in the fourth are put the values of , the conductivity in C.G.S. units , that of the water being subtracted , reduced to a temperature of and the fifth gives , the molecular conductivity .
For equivalent solutions of acetic acid , KOHLRAUSCH ( Wied .
Ann 26 , p. 197 ) gives the following results:\mdash ; .
W. C. D. WHETHAM ON THE VELOCITIES OF THE IONS . .
1 01 001 0001 $ It is , therefore , probable that , just as ferric chloride decomposes into ferric hydrochloric acid , hus : so ferric acetate gives ferric hydroxide and acetic acid , thus : Fe .
In each case most of the work of carrying the current is done by the acid .
An attempt was made to use the red colour of the ferric acetate as an indicator to show the presence of the acetate group .
A decinormal solution of ferric was placed in one limb of the apparatus , and a similar solution , coloured red by a little ferric acetate , in the other .
It was thought that , by the motion of the colour boundary , the acetate group could be traced , and , since the current is almost exclusively carried by the free acid , that the velocity thus measured would be that of the anion of acetic acid in dilute solution .
When the current was applied , however , it was at once seen that the colour boundary moved in the same direction as the current\mdash ; not against it as an anion should .
The following measurements were obtained:\mdash ; Resistance of ferric chloride solution in a third cell at acetate solution in Cell No. 2 at ohms .
, , Cell constant Therefore mean conductivity at Velocit..\mdash ; Half-hour intervals .
Current upwards .
Displacement upwards : .
Current downwards .
Displacement downwards : .
Mean velocity centim. in 30 minutes .
Mean galvanometer reading .
Resistance of galvanometer ohnls .
Graduation with a Daniell cell : MR. W. C. D. WHETHAM ON THE VELOCITIES OF THHi IONS .
200 ohms 807 ohms therefore therefore centim. per second , which , reduced to , gives centim. per second .
If really represents the velocity of the acetate group in an acid solution , it is evident that , if a measurement be made of the migration constant of acetic acid , the concentration round the kathode must increase , since the acetate group lravels .
the same direction as the hydrogen .
The current from twenty storage cells was passed for some hours through a decinormal solution of acetic acid .
The liquid was contained in an apparatus consisting of two upright glass tubes , in which the platinum electrodes were placed .
These tubes were connected beiow the level of the top of the solution by a horizontal tube , made of india-rubber for part of its length , in order that it might be closed- by a screw pinch-cock .
After the passage of the current , the two vessels could thus be isolated each other , and the contents of each examined .
A current of ampere was passed hours , at he end of which time the solution round each electrode was titrated soda solution with the following results:\mdash ; Original solution 10 cub. centims. require cub. centims soda .
Anode , , , , , , , , Kathode , , , , , , , This preJiminar observation , therefore , gives no evidence of accumulation of acid at the kathude .
The experiment was repeated .
A current , average strength was ampere , was passed through decinormal acetic acid solution for hours .
Original solution 10 cub. centims. require cub. centims. soda .
Anode , , , , , , Kathode , , , 9.4 , , Now it is possible that an accumulation round the kathode might be masked by the reduction of the acetic acid by the hydrogen there liberated , but , if such an accumulation occurred , it would mean that all the acid decomposed must be taken from the anode vessel , well as some which migrates unchanged through the liquid .
The numbers given above seem to show usively that the amount of acid round the anode does not decrease , but that , if anything , a slight increase occurs .
MR. W. C. D. WHETHAM ON THE VELOCITIES OF THE IONS .
We must , therefore , look for some other explanation of the velocity phenomena .
ferric hydrate be dissolved in ferric chloride solution , a red liquid is obtained .
.When it is remembered that the ferric acetate solution contains ferric hydrate , it is evident that a motion of the colour boundary would be obtained if this ferric hydrate were through the solution , either by its being attached to the kation , or by motion similar to that observed in the case of light non-electrolytic particles uspended in water .
Ferric can be obtained in a soluble form by dialysing a solution of ferric chloride .
The ferric chloride solution is placed in a glass cylinder , the lower end of which is covered by a sheet of parchment paper .
The cylinder is then suspended in iBuch a manner that the lower end is just below the surface of a large volume of distilled water .
At the end of several days , nearly all the hy drochloric acid is found to have passed into the water , leaving the iron behind as a brown solution of ferrio hydrate .
A solution prepared in this manner was found to have a concentration of gram.-equivalent per litre of chlorine , and gram.-equivalent of total iron .
Its conductivity was , in C.G.S. units , , which gives for the iron a molecular conductivity ] , a value much below the normal .
If , however , we suppose that it is only the ferric chloride remaining in the solution which is active , and calculate the molecular conductivity from the amount of chlorine , we number nearly equal to that for the ordinary ferric chloride solution of equivalent strength .
A series of conductivity measurements of this solution was made at different dilutions , and then two similar sets for ferric chloride .
In the following Table the results are compared .
Dialysed iron .
erric chloride .
The molecular conductivities are corrected for the conductivity of the re-distilled water used , and reduced to MR. W. C. D. WHETHAM ON THE CITIEiS O TH IONS .
nd after them the velocity kept constant .
It is probable that the extra value was lue to some disturbance at the boundary introduced by the first current , which actually got reversed and eliminated when the current was reversed .
These three 1bservations were therefore neglected .
The others give a mean velocity of centim. minutes .
We thus get for the velocity with which ferric hydroxide is transorted in the direction of the current through a dilute solution of ferric chloride , by a )otential gradient of 1 volt per centim. , at a temperature of , the value centim. per second , and at centim. per second .
This is the same , within the limits of experimental error ( which with these badly jonducting solutions are considerable ) as the value deduced by experiments with erric acetate ions of rather greater concentration , was centim. per second .
It seems clear , then , that what we were measuring in that case , was not the relocity of the acetate group , but the oCity with which the soluble ferric hydroxide was transported through the solution without undergoing any decomposition .
In order further to examine this explanation , a migration experiment was made with bhe dialysed iron solution .
A current of ampere was passed through the liquid for five hours , at the end of which time the red colour had become much paler round bhe anode , while a precipitate of ferric hydroxide appeared at the bottom of the vessel ontaining the kathode .
The volume of liquid in each vessel was 30 cub. centims. , and in 30 cub. centims. bhe original solution the weight of ferric oxide gram .
In the anode- vessel the weight of oxide in solution gram .
The kathode vessel contained gram .
in solution , and gram .
precipi- tated ; total , gram .
Thus the anode vessel contains less iron , and the kathode vessel more , than an equal volume of the original solution .
This , also , is consistent with the hypothesis that unaltered ferric hydroxide is carried through the liquid in the direction of the current .
A similar experiment , made with ferric acetate solution , also showed an accumulation of iron in solution near the kathode , both as estimated by the colour of the liquid , and as determined by analysis .
Our attempt to measure directly the velocity of the acetate group in acetic acid solutions has therefore failed , but the migration experiment , described on p. 518 , at any rate showed that no great change of concentration occurred in the neighbourhood of the anode , towards which the acetate group travelled .
Its velocity is , therefore , very small , and , as in the case of common mineral acids , the conductivity chiefly due to the motion of the hydrogen .
The following table gives the velocities of all ions which have been experimentally determined .
Copper Barlum Calciut ) Sulphate .
Cobalb ( alcoholic ) Co .
Chlorine ( in alcobolic ) ( in alcoholic ) .
The values in the second column are calculated from KOHLRAUSCH'S theory for solutions of the same concentration as those used for the direct observations .
LODGE does not give the sbrength of his solution , but , as the molecular conductivity of dilute hydrcchloric acid does not alter much with change of concentration , the number given , which is calculated for a decinormal solution , is , probably , fairly comparable with that observed .
The velocity of copper was measured in chlorides , and the data for the calculation theory are not known for this salt .
The specific ionic velocity of copper , at inJinite dilution , ie given by KOHLRAUSCH as centim. per second .
The of the ionic velocities of cobalt chloride in alcohol , as calculated from the conductivity of the solution , is centim. per second , and that of cobalt nitrate is .
These numbers are to be compared with tho sums of the obsel.ved velocities given in llamely , and respectively .

