25 On the Distribution of the Different Arteries supplying the Human Brain .
By Charles E. Beevor , M.D. Bond .
, F.B.C.P. ( Communicated by Professor David Ferrier , F.R.S. Received May 8 , \#151 ; Read December 5 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) The present work was undertaken to ascertain the area of distribution of the different arteries of the brain , when they were injected simultaneously under the same pressure with gelatine containing soluble colours .
The number of brains injected is 87 .
The arteries injected were the posterior communicating , the anterior choroid , the anterior cerebral , the middle cerebral , and the posterior cerebral .
The 'previous observations of Duret , Heubner and Kolisko and other authors are described .
The method of investigation consisted in injecting simultaneously by means of pressure bottles three , four , or five of these arteries with different soluble colours .
The injection mass used was gelatine , coloured with soluble carmine , Nicholson 's blue , naphthol green , acridine yellow , and Bismarck brown .
Twelve different classes of experiments are described .
The brains were hardened in formalin , and subsequently cut and examined in the sagittal , horizontal , or coronal planes .
The most frequent distribution of the basal branches to the different parts is by the following arteries :\#151 ; Uegio subthalamica , including the corpus subthalamicum and Forel 's field , by the posterior communicating .
Corpus mammillare , by the posterior cerebral .
Pes pedunculi , anterior one-third by the posterior communicating or anterior choroid , posterior two-thirds by the posterior cerebral .
Internal capsule , anterior division , by the anterior cerebral in the inferior half and by the middle cerebral in its superior half .
Posterior division , the inferior part , the anterior one-third by the posterior communicating , posterior two-thirds by the anterior choroid , which also supplied the retro-lenticular fibres ; the superior part by the middle cerebral .
Caudate nucleus , caput , inferior half by the anterior cerebral , superior half by the middle cerebral .
Superior horizontal part by the middle cerebral , posteriorly by the posterior cerebral .
Surcingle by the anterior horoid .
Dr. C. E. Beevor .
On the Distribution of the [ May 8 , Lenticular nucleus , external segment , anterior inferior part by the anterior cerebral , the rest by the middle cerebral .
Middle segment by the middle cerebral .
Internal segment by the anterior choroid .
Optic thalamus , anterior nucleus , by the posterior cerebral .
External nucleus anteriorly by the posterior communicating , posteriorly by the posterior cerebral .
Internal nucleus by the posterior cerebral , anterior half sometimes by the posterior communicating .
Pulvinar by the posterior cerebral .
Choroid plexus in the descending and posterior cornua by the anterior choroid , in the central part of the lateral ventricle by the posterior cerebral .
Choroid membrane in the descending cornu , anterior part by the anterior # choroid , the rest of the membrane by the posterior cerebral .
Optic tract by the anterior choroid .
Anterior commissure in the median part by the anterior cerebral , in the outer part by the middle cerebral , and in the postero-external part by the anterior choroid .
On the cortex the areas of supply of the chief arteries differ in their extent from the description given by Duret , and are most commonly as follows :\#151 ; Anterior cerebral artery , on median surface of cortex , to half way along the quadrate lobule ; on external surface , posteriorly to half way along the parietal lobule , interiorly to the sulcus frontalis superior .
Middle cerebral artery , on outer surface , posteriorly to the occipital pole or half an inch anterior to it , superiorly to the middle line along the posterior half of the parietal lobule , inferiorly to the middle of the inferior temporal gyrus ; on median surface to include the hippocampal lobule .
Posterior cerebral artery , on median surface , anteriorly and superiorly to the posterior half of quadrate lobule ; on external surface at the median line anteriorly to the external parieto-occipital fissure , posteriorly to the occipital pole or to half an inch anterior to this , and inferiorly to the middle or superior border of the inferior temporal gyrus .
The optic radiations in the occipital lobe are supplied in the upper ( vertical ) three-fourths by the middle cerebral and in the inferior one-fourth by the posterior cerebral artery , except in the posterior inch , where all by the posterior cerebral .
The following parts are also supplied by the cortical arteries:\#151 ; The corpus callosum , the genu , rostrum and body by the anterior cerebral ; the tapetum by the anterior , middle or posterior cerebral ; the splenium and forceps major by the posterior cerebral artery .
The uncus by the anterior choroid artery .
The cornu ammonis by the anterior choroid artery or the posterior cerebral artery .
1907 .
] Different Arteries supplying the Human Brain .
27 The centrum ovale by the anterior , middle , and posterior cerebral arteries .
The simultaneous injection of the five arteries supplying the brain , by the same pressure , with soluble colours in gelatine has ( it is believed ) not been accomplished before , and it is considered that this method gives the most accurate representation of the distribution of each artery , including that of the finest capillaries .
The parts of the brain , the arterial supply of which hitherto has not been described , or which are found to be different from other observers , are:\#151 ; The regio subthalamica , with the corpus subthalamicum and Forel 's field , the supply to which has not been described ; the relative supply of the arteries to the pes pedunculi ; the corpus mammillare ( by the posterior cerebral in place of the posterior communicating ) ; the exact supply to the anterior limb of the internal capsule ; the absence of anastomoses of the three arteries supplying the posterior limb of the internal capsule ; the exact supply to the caudate nucleus ; the absence of anastomosis in the head of the caudate nucleus between the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries ; the exact supply of the lenticular nucleus ; the supply to the different nuclei of the optic thalamus , which has not been described before ( the thalamus is not supplied by the lenticulo-optic arteries of Duret ) ; the anterior part of the choroid membrane , which is supplied by the anterior choroid artery ; the supply to the fornix and the anterior commissure .
In the cortex the observations differ from those of Duret in that , though there are great varieties , the anterior cerebral area extends most frequently on the outer surface along the median line posteriorly to midway between the Rolandic fissure and the external parieto-occipital fissure , instead of to the Rolandic fissure ; and inferiorly to the sulcus frontalis superior , instead of the sulcus frontalis inferior .
The middle cerebral area on the outer surface reaches the middle line for the posterior half of the parietal lobe , in place of along the whole extent of the lobe ; and posteriorly the posterior pole , or half an inch in front of it , in place of the upturned end of the parallel sulcus ; and inferiorly the middle of the third temporal gyrus in place of the middle of the second temporal gyrus ; this diminution of the extent of the posterior cerebral area on to the outer surface corresponds to the increase of the middle cerebral area .
In the supply to the pedunculus cunei and the optic radiations the results agree with Henschen rather than with Monakow , though they differ from both in the case of the supply to the optic radiations ; the supply to the fasciculus longitudinalis inferior is different to that given by Monakow , and corresponds to that of the optic radiations .
The exact arterial supply to the corpus callosum , uncus and cornu ammonis Prof. W. J. Sollas .
On the Cranial and [ May 15 , is given .
And also that to the centrum ovale as seen in the sagittal , horizontal , and coronal planes .
The knowledge of the exact part of the brain which is supplied by any artery is of great importance in the diagnosis of the parts of the brain which undergo softening when this particular artery is blocked by a blood clot .
On the Cranial and Facial Characters of the Race .
By W. J. Sollas , Sc. D. , LL. D. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
( Received May 15 , \#151 ; Read November 14 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) As a result of a detailed comparison of the calvarium of the Neandertal race with that of the aborigines of South Australia , it is shown that a much closer resemblance exists between them than has hitherto been supposed , especially as regards the calottal height , calottal index , Schwalbe 's ( " bregma " ) angle , the bregma index , the frontal and orbito-frontal angles , the superior ( " lambda " ) and inferior inion angles , and the fronto-parietal index .
The chief differences are to be found in the magnitude of the cephalic index , the continuity of the frontal torus , and the deeply impressed character of the frontal fossa .
Comparisons based on the glabella-inion line are misleading , owing to the inconstancy in position of the inion .
In the absence of any fixed point in the skull , the centre of figure of the median longitudinal section is chosen for a point of reference , and a radius drawn from this to the basion as an initial line for the measurement of polar co-ordinates .
The exterior foramino-basal angle owes its perplexing anomalies to the fact that its magnitude is determined by five independent variables , one of which is connected with the cranial height , so that in depressed forms of skull it acquires a higher value than might otherwise be expected .
The Gibraltar skull , preserved in the Royal College of Surgeons , is the only example of the Neandertal race which presents the bones of the face and the basi-cranial axis in undisturbed connection with the calvarium .
Its characters , apart from the cranial vault , are unique : no other known skull possesses so long a face , such a large and broad nasal aperture , or such projecting nasal walls .
In profile , the nasal curve flows into that of the glabella ,

