101 1882 .
] Position of Ganglia , Scorpions .
left between the projecting trabeculae .
The latter are the true uiumen " of the gland .
The structure of the central portion of the \#166 ; coxal gland of the Scorpions differs from that of its periphery , to which the previous description refers .
Conclusion.\#151 ; It does not seem possible to doubt that the coxal glands of the Scorpions and of Limulus are homologous structures .
Though no external opening has been found as yet , in either the one case or the other , it is possible that such an opening exists .
Though glands in a similar position ( at the bases of the limbs or jaws ) are found in other Arthropoda , there are none known which agree so closely in position and structure with either the coxal glands of Limulus , or of Scorpio , as these do with one another .
Possibly such coxal glands are in all cases the modified and isolated representatives of the complete series of tubular glands ( nephrida ) found at the base of each leg in the archaic Arthropod , ' Peripatus .
P.S.\#151 ; I may add that since writing the above , I have found a similar pair of glandular organs in a large South American Mygale , which I received from the Zoological Society on the day of its death , in the Insect House at Regent 's Park .
The coxal glands in Mygale are elongated and lobed as in Limulus .
They rest on the dorsolateral region of the entosternite .
VI .
" Note on the Differences in the Position of the Ganglia of the Ventral Nerve-cord in three Species of Scorpion .
" By E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jodrell Professor of Zoology in University College , London .
Received May 25 , 1882 .
No one who is acquainted with the researches of George Newport can doubt the general accuracy of his description of the nervous system of an " Androctonus .
" Very probably the Scorpion which he made use of for his researches on the nervous system was Androctonus funestus , Ehr .
, the same which I have received in the living condition from North Africa .
The accuracy of Newport 's description in a very material point , and one which refers to a very obvious feature , has been called in question by Leon Dufour .
Dufour dissected a species closely allied to A. funestus , one which is little more than a small European variety of it , namely , A. occitanus .
Yet he gives an account of the disposition of the ganglia of the ventral nerve-cord , and of the innervation of the four pairs of pulmonary sacs , which is widely different from that of Newport .
I am able to confirm the general accuracy of Newport 's account by my dissections of A. funestus , and have been in much doubt as to 102 Mr. E. R. Lankester .
[ June 15y whether Dufour 's account ought to be considered as erroneous , or as-due to a difference in the species which he dissected .
Whilst thus doubtful I discovered that the Scorpio ( of some authors ) of Ceylon presents a disposition of the ganglia of the ventral nerve-cord and an innervation of the pulmonary sacs , which differs both from that of A. funestus as described by Newport , and of A. as- described by Dufour .
Further I have found that the Scorpio ( as also the allied Sc. Garpathicus ) has a disposition of these parts agreeing with that observed by me in the Scorpio cyaneus of Ceylon .
Thus I am led to think it possible\#151 ; though I cannot say that I think it probable\#151 ; that the difference in the accounts given by Newport and Dufour of the two ' species of Androctonus is due to specific variation .
The disposition observed by Newport in his Androctonus , which I can confirm so far as A. funestus is concerned , * is as follows :\#151 ; Tracing the nerve-cord from the ganglionic mass in the cephalo-thorax ( or prosoma , as I prefer to call it ) , we find in the mesosoma ( the broad so-called abdomen of authors ) a ganglion in the segment containing the second pair of ' lungs , a second ganglion in the segment containing the fourth pair of lungs , and a third ganglion in the lungless segment which succeeds the segment containing the ' fourth pair of lungs .
These three ganglia do not all supply the structures-adjacent to them : each sends off two lateral nerves and a median inferior nerve .
The latter nerve was not seen by Newport , but is rightly described by Dufour .
Dufour also observed what Newport failed to do , viz. , that the nerve-cord itself is double .
Th and the second pair of lungs , as well as the adjacent regions of the segments in which they lie , are supplied by two pairs of nerves , which descend from the ganglionic mass in the prosoma ( cephalothorax ) .
The-ganglion adjacent to the second pair of lungs supplies by its lateral nerves , not that pair of lungs , but the third pair of lungs .
The next ganglion supplies the adjacent fourth pair of lungs , whilst the ganglion in the segment following that containing the fourth pair of lungs supplies the muscles adjacent to it , there being no lungs in this segment .
In the Ceylon scorpion , S. ( 'Buthu ) , and in Sc. Italicus ( Raes ) , I find , on the other hand , the following arrangement .
There are three ganglia in the broad abdomen , one placed very close to the prosoma in the segment belonging to the first pair of lungs , a second placed in the segment corresponding to the third pair of lungs , and a third in the lungless segment .
Further , the distribution of the lateral nerves given off by the ganglia is quite different from what we find in Androctonus funestus .
In S. cyaneus of Ceylon only one ( the first ) pair of lung-sacs ( and * June 2Mh.\#151 ; Newport 's drawing , however , Represents the middle of the three ganglia as lying in the third lung-segment , instead of the fourth .
1882.1 Position of Ganglia , Scorpions .
103 Figures 2 , 3 , 4 .
Diagrams showing the disposition of the ganglia and chief nerves in Scorpions .
Figure 2 represents the arrangement found in Androctonus funestus .
It is , except for the position of the middle ganglion , the same as that described by Newport , the median nerve given off from each ganglion of the cord , and the two strands ( instead of one ) which constitute the cord being additions to that author 's results .
Figure 3 represents the arrangement found in the large tropical Scorpio ( Buthus , or Heterometrus of Ehrenberg ) cyaneus of Ceylon , and Sc. Kochii of India , and also in the small European Scorpio It aliens ^ Hoes , and Scorpio Carpathicus , Linn. Figure 4 is constructed from the figure given by Leon Dufour , of Androctonus occitanus\#151 ; the yellow Scorpion of Spain and Southern France .
In those points in which this figure differs from fig. 2 , it seems probable that Dufour is incorrect , but possibly he is not altogether so .
oc .
, nerves to central and lateral eyes .
1\#151 ; 6 , nerves to the six limbs of the prosoma .
7 , nerve to the genital operculum ( first segment of mesosoma ) .
8 , nerve to the pecten ( second segment of mesosoma ) .
9\#151 ; 12 , four hinder segments of the mesosoma .
13 , 14 , two first segments of the metasoma .
P1 to P4 , the four pairs of pulmonary sacs .
the adjacent parts of the segment in which it lies ) is supplied from the great ganglion of the prosoma .
The ganglion lying in this , the first lung-bearing segment , supplies the second lung-bearing segment .
On Iodide of Silver and its Alloys .
[ June 15 , The third lung-bearing segment is supplied by the ganglion which lies in that segment .
The fourth , lung-bearing segment has no ganglion lying in it , and appears to depend entirely for its nerve-supply on the median nerve given off by the ganglion which , as in Androctonus , is placed in the next following segment .
These relations can only be understood by the aid of drawings .
The woodcut shows diagrammatically in three figures , fig. 2 the disposition in Androctonusfunestus ( agreeing essentially with Newport 's description ) , fig. 3 the disposition in Scorpio of Ceylon , fig. 4 the disposition described by Dufour .
This last diagram has been constructed from Dufour 's drawing .
It is without doubt erroneous in important particulars relative to the large ganglion of the prosoma , and is very probably erroneous in regard to other particulars .
It is worthy of attention as tending to associate the European scorpions of the sub-genus Euscorpius with those of the type of Buthus afer , to which Sc. cyaneus of Ceylon belongs , that in Scorpio Italicus and Scorpio Carpathicus , I have found the same disposition of the ganglia and of the primary branches of the ventral nerve-cord as that drawn in fig. 3 .
The only difference observed was that the ganglia in these European species are all a little further forward , so as to lie close to the anterior limit of the segments in which they occur .
We thus find that an important anatomical difference obtains between the Scorpions with triangular sternum ( Androctoni ) and the Scorpions with pentagonal sternum ( Euscorpii , Buthi , \amp ; c. ) .
Whether the Scorpions with band-like sternum ( Telegoni ) differ from or agree with either of these types in respect of their nervous system , has yet to be discovered .
VII .
" On the Specific Heat and Heat of Transformation of the Iodide of Silver , Agl , and of the Alloys Cu2I2.AgI , Cu2I2.2AgI , Cu2I2.3AgI , Cu2I2.4AgI , Cu2I2.12AgI , PbI2.AgI .
" By Professor M. Bellati and Dr. R. Romanese , Professors in the University of Padua .
Communicated by Professor A. W. Williamson , For .
Sec. R.S. Received June 7 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The authors ' calorimetric investigation refers to substances which have been already studied by Mr. G. F. Rodwell ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. " vol. 32 ) as to their expansion and contraction by heat .
After having detailed the method of experimenting and tabulated the results of determinations for each substance , the authors recapitulate the results in the following table:\#151 ;

