51 1880.1 On the Absorption Spectra of Cobalt Salts .
leading member of which beryllium unquestionably is , stands certainly in the nearest proximity with an other series , that of aluminium ( Alg , Ga2 , Tn2 , Cr2 , Mn2 , Fe2 ) , but this nevertheless decidedly differs from the former by an other typical double sulphate , K , S04+R23S04+24H20 .
or alum .
The fact , which has been alleged as a proof of the bivalence of beryllium , namely , that the chloride fuses and sublimes at a higher temperature than aluminium chloride is of no importance , for it will be found that amongst the members of the former series , with its difficultly fusible and volatilisable chlorides , many analogies exist for beryllium , not only in this but in many other respects .
Lastly , we subjoin a table showing the magnetic properties of the o rare earths .
Mr. Knut Angstrom kindly undertook this research , employing a powerful electromagnet of Ruhmkorff , between the poles of which the oxides showed the following properties :\#151 ; Magnetic .
Diamagnetic .
Cr203 *V\gt ; 8 . . .
\lt ; T203 ... .
Er203 ... YbA \#151 ; Ce02 Th02 III .
" On the Absorption Spectra of Cobalt Salts .
" By W. J. Russell , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Treas .
C.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry at the Medical School , St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Received August 4 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) The following investigation was commenced with Mr. Lockyer , and although he has been unable to continue the work , the author is indebted to him for much aid and many suggestions .
The cobalt salt first examined was the anhydrous chloride .
In order to establish clearly its absorption spectrum , different samples of this salt were made by various processes .
All , however , gave the same spectrum .
The bromide of cobalt yields a similar spectrum , but its position is different , it is nearer to the red .
Dr. W. J. Russell .
[ Nov. 18 , On fusing cobalt chloride with potassic chloride , a greenish-blue mass is formed , which gives a spectrum entirely different from that of the chloride when alone .
Judging from the fusing-point of the mixture being lower than that of the components , and the cobalt salt not decomposing in this mixture on fusion in contact with air , it seemed natural to suppose that a new compound had been formed , and that it gave rise to the new spectrum .
Further experiment showed , however , that this is not the case for other ' solid chlorides , such as of sodium and zinc give with cobalt chloride the same spectrum ; and liquids in which the cobalt chloride easily dissolves , such as ordinary or amylic alcohol , the saline ethers , glycerine , and hydrochloric acid , also give this same spectrum ; in fact , this spectrum is produced whenever cobalt chloride dissolves freely in any menstruum without definitely combining with it .
A careful set of experiments were made in the case of the solid chlorides , to exclude the presence of water , for it was possible that the spectrum in all the above cases might be due to a trace of water , which , by its combining with the cobalt chloride , formed in every instance the spectrum-giving body .
The bromide and iodide of cobalt , when fused with potassium bromide and potassium iodide respectively , give results corresponding to those of the chloride , but the bands in the spectrum of the bromide , and still more so those of the iodide , are nearer to the red than the corresponding bands of the chloride .
The action of heat and of water on the bodies producing these spectra is discussed , and it is pointed out how the definite compound with zinc was indicated by the spectrum .
The action of liquids which easily dissolve the cobalt chloride is next described , and as all give the same spectrum , and this spectrum is identical with that .obtained with the fused chlorides , the conclusion drawn is , as before stated , that this spectrum must be that of the cobalt chloride , only , owing to solution , it is in a molecular state , different from that obtained on fusing this salt alone .
This spectrum , when obtained in the hydrochloric acid solution , is remarkable for its persistence under varying circumstances , and for its being a reaction of great delicacy .
Hydrochloric acid as a solvent for the cobalt chloride differs in one respect from all the other solvents which have as yet been examined , namely , that , whether much or little cobalt be dissolved in it , the spectrum is the same ; whereas with dry alcohol , for instance , a saturated , or nearly saturated , solution gives the spectrum above mentioned , but a dilute solution , one containing about 20 grms. of the chloride in 100 cub. centims. of alcohol , gives a spectrum somewhat different : a new band appears and others which were present fade out : if this dilution be carried on still further , so that only about 0-008 grm. of the chloride be present in 100 cub. centims. of alcohol , an entirely different spectrum is obtained , but on carrying the dilution beyond this no 1880 .
] On the Absorption Spectra of Cobalt Salts .
further change takes place .
With other liquids which dissolve the cobalt salt freely , a similar series of changes occur , but if liquids in which the chloride is much less soluble be used , then according to their solvent power only the first ( or most dilute stage ) , or the first and second stage , is obtainable ; for instance , if dry ether is used as the solvent , it yields only a spectrum corresponding to the first stage .
With anhydrous acetic acid , in which the cobalt chloride is more freely soluble , both the first and second stage are obtainable .
If the dry chloride in fine powder be shaken up with a liquid in which it is insoluble , such as carbon tetrachloride , then only a spectrum similar to that of the fused chloride is visible .
The anhydrous cobalt chloride dissolved in water gives a pink solution .
This solution , when it contains as little as 0'1 grm. , or as much as 25 grms. , of the salt in 100 cub. centims. of water , gives only a wide absorption-band , shading off on both sides , and whether a short column of the strong solution or a correspondingly long column of .the dilute solution be examined , identical spectra are obtained , so that within these limits the same compound appears to exist in the solution .
If , however , the solution approaches saturation ( 100 cub. centims. of water can dissolve at 16 ' 32 grms. of the cobalt chloride ) , then another spectrum is visible , and this is again the spectrum of the dissolved .chloride : the same spectrum as is obtained either by dissolving .cobalt chloride in fused potassium chloride , or in alcohol , or in hydrochloric acid , thus apparently the anhydrons chloride exists in -an aqueous solution .
The action of heat , and the action of bodies capable of combining with water , in aqueous solutions of cobalt chloride , are identical , both tending to destroy the broad absorption band of the hydrate , and to form the banded spectrum of the dissolved anhydrous chloride .
The very characteristic spectrum of the oxide of cobalt is well known .
The precipitate obtained by the addition of potash or soda in excess to any cobaltous salt , shows well this spectrum .
If ammonia , be the precipitant , a somewhat simpler spectrum is obtained .
Vogel has already pointed out the similarity of the spectrum of a piece of cobalt glass and this oxide spectrum .
The glass spectrum is apparently similar to the spectrum formed by the precipitate with potash and soda , probably then the extra band visible in these cases and not when ammonia is used , is due to a compound of the alkali and cobalt .
The bearing of these spectra on Winkler 's supposed cobaltate of potash is then discussed .
Further , it is shown that if the above precipitation of oxide be made in solutions in which the cobalt salt is in excess , or .even if precipitated oxide be warmed or shaken up in the cold with a solution of cobalt chloride , a new compound is formed , an oxychloride which gives a different spectrum ; its formation and its decomposition by water is well traced in the varying spectra producible from it , and VOL. XXXI .
f [ Nov. 18 , Prof. W. C. Unwin .
goes band in band with the chemical changes which occnr .
From the spectroscopic appearance it is argued that the blue precipitated oxide is not a hydrate , but that it does very readily undergo change as the mere alteration of colour which takes place shows .
Aqueous solutions of the bromide and iodide of cobalt when acted on by alkalies undergo changes similar to those which the chloride undergoes , and , as in the former cases , the iodide spectrum is always nearer the red end of the spectrum than the corresponding bromide spectrum , and the bromide than the chloride spectrum .
The salts of the oxygen acids when in aqueous solution do not give sharp banded spectra as the haloid salts do , but only a large shading off absorption like the hydrate of the cobalt chloride .
The other points discussed in detail are , first , the nature of the-precipitate formed by the action of sodic or potassic carbonate on a cobaltous salt , and it is shown that the formation of the oxide always found in this precipitate is owing to an after decomposition , the precipitate as first formed being entirely free from all oxide , and it gradually appearing after a short time .
The other point is the action of heat on cobalt phosphate dissolved in fused microcosmic salt ; when cold there appears somewhat indistinctly a banded spectrum of a phosphate , on heating this the spectrum disappears , and the spectrum of the oxide very distinctly takes it place ; on cooling , the first spectrum returns , and this change may apparently be repeated any number of times .
Drawings of all the different spectra are given in the full paper .
IV .
" On the Friction of Water against Solid Surfaces of Different Degrees of Roughness/ ' By Professor W. G. Unwin , M.I.C.E. , Professor of Hydraulic Engineering at the Royal Indian Engineering College .
Communicated by J. H. Cotterill , F.R.S. , Professor of Applied Mechanics , Royal Naval College , Greenwich .
Received August 31 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) These experiments relate to the friction of fluids when flowing against rough solid surfaces .
It is well known that a board dragged through water suffers a resistance which , at speeds not very small , .
varies nearly as the square of the velocity .
The fluid surrounding the board does not behave as a solid , but shearing and eddying motions are set up , which give rise to losses of energy distributed throughout the fluid mass .
Most of the existing knowledge of fluid friction has been derived from the observation of the flow of water in pipes and canals .
But ixr

