A paper was read , " On the Sources and Nature of the Powers on which the Circulation of the Blood depends .
" By A. P. W. Philip , M.D. F.R.S. L. &amp; Ed. In the first part of this paper the author discusses the opinions which ascribe the powers that maintain the circulation in the veins to the elasticity of the heart , the resilience of the lungs , and the dilatation of the thoracic cavity in the act of inspiration .
He shows experimentally that the circulation continues unimpaired when all those causes have ceased to operate ; and that the very structure of the veins , the coats of which are so pliable as to collapse by their own weight , when empty , renders it impossible that the motion of the blood could be maintained in them by any cause corresponding to a power of suction in the heart .
The latter part of the paper is occupied by an inquiry into the sources and nature of the powers which really support the circula ?
tion of the blood .
The capillaries , he observes , maintain the motion of their blood long after the heart has ceased to beat ; this motion not being immediately affected even by the entire removal of the heart ; but being accelerated , retarded , or arrested , according as the action of the capillaries is increased , impaired , or destroyed , by agents of which the operation is wholly confined to the vessels themselves .
As the destruction of the heart does not immediately influence the motion of the blood in the capillaries , so the action of this organ , when in full vigour , can produce no motion of the blood in the capillaries , when these vessels are themselves deprived of power .
Experiments are related with the view of proving that the arteries and veins , and more particularly the latter , are also capable of carrying on the blood they contain , even in opposition to the force of gravitation , with the greatest ease , and without the aid of any ex ?
traneous power .
With regard to the nature of the power exerted by the blood-vessels , the author shows that the capillaries are as readily influenced by stimulants and by sedatives , as the heart itself ; and that the arteries and veins may also be made to obey the action of stimulants ; and further , that the power of the vessels bears the same relation to the nervous system as that of the heart , which is peculiar , and very different from the relation subsisting between that system and the muscles of voluntary motion .
From the whole of the facts and experiments stated in this paper , the author deduces the conclusions , that the circulation is maintained by the combined power of the heart and blood-vessels , and that the power of both is a muscular power .

