Philos. Trans. No.378 .
Plate .
II Fig. 1 .
P BR Q QQ O QRI H LHTO M Q E D A BB C N M Fig. 2 .
L D D K T H GE D F V. An Account of an Extra-Uterine Faetus , taken out of a Woman after Death , that had continued five Years and an half in the Body .
By Robert Houstoun , M. D. I Was sent for in August 1717 , to a Woman near Newport-Market , who had been married eighteen Years to a Native of the East Indies , by whom she had eight Children , besides two Miscarriages .
At my visiting her , now , she was with Child in a second Marriage , and her Husband a vigorous young Man .
She was near her full Time , and had felt Pains for several Days , which , returning by Intervals , she concluded , would , as usual , bring on her Delivery .
Her Mother and her Midwife , apprehending no Difficulty , assured those about her , that only Time was wanting .
But I found , on Examination , that her Womb was of no Bulk to contain a Child near its Time ; and that its Neck , of an uncommon Hardness , was also closed so straightly , as to refuse the least Admission , even of a small Probe or knitting Needle .
I declared upon this , that her Delivery was impossible ; because the Child was not within the Womb , but between the Womb and the Guts : That it might be removed by a Passage to be made for it , without any great Pain , and with Safety to the Mother .
I offered to undertake it , and assured them , that this was the only Opportunity ; and that if she neglected it , it would hereafter be out of the Power of Art to give her the Relief , she must languish for till Death , unless favoured by some unlikely and extraordinary Accident .
However confidently I affirmed it , they listened with a Mixture of Disbelief and Amazement , and rejected my Assistance .
At that Time , in Probability , it would have been successful ; for she was a slender well-shap 'd Woman , in good Habit of Body , and of a sprightly Disposition .
It was a Year after this , when Mrs. Hexel , a noted Midwife in St. James 's Parish , desired me again to visit her .
I found her much disordered by a growing Imposthumation in her Belly : I ordered her some cordial Stomachicks , Cassia , and such gentle Lenitives ; and they met a Success beyond my Expectation : So that , by aid of a regular Diet , and the watchful Exactness of a very tender Mother ( a Nurse of above thirty Years Experience about this City ) I restored her to such Strength , that she went cheerfully Abroad , and re-apply 'd herself to Business .
I told her she might frankly benefit herself by my Advice , or my Medicines : And she called as she found Occasion .
But about fifteen Months from the Time when I visited her first , her Mother came from her to entreat my Assistance : She complained of great Pain in the lower Part of her Abdomen ; and I found a Tumour of a conick Form , projecting about an Inch beneath the Umbilicus : Its Inflammation , with Tension , and a Feverishness attending it , so plainly indicated Suppuratives , that I was not surprised to hear , in a few Days , that it had broke , as I wished .
I proposed to lay it open , both to give a free Emission , and prevent its becoming fistulous ; but she was apprehensive , that I would , as she called it , cut open her Belly : So that not being able to prevail with her , I ordered a Pot of Unguent , and some Plaisters .
The Ulcer soon grew fistulous , and so continued till she died , which was on the 23d of March last , in the 41st Year of her Age .
For above five Months before her Death , she voided her Excrements by this Vent , and all the soft Parts of the Faetus , with some small Bones of its Fingers .
But the rest of the Skeleton remaining entire , I took it out of her Body , together with the Vagina , Uterus , Rectum , &amp;c. wherein it had involved itself , as may be seen more particularly in the Figure annexed .
Explication of the Figures .
Fig. 21 .
A The Clitoris .
BB The Nymphae .
C The Rima , or Entry into the Vagina .
D The Bladder .
EE The Ureters cut off .
F The Uterus sound and entire .
G The Left Ovarium .
HH The Tubes .
I Part of the Colon cut off .
K Part of the Peritonaeum .
L Part of the Ileum cut off .
M Part of the Caecum .
O Part of the Cranium that plainly appears .
P The Ulcer , through which the Excrements passed , with some small Bones .
QQQQ The Bulky Mass , wherein the Skeleton is contained , between the Uterus , part of the Vagina , and Rectum .
RR Part of the Cutis .
She was full nine Months gone in August 1717 , and died the 23d of March 1723 , on which Day I took it out .
Fig. 22 .
A Lateral View .
A Orificium Vaginae .
B Anus .
C Intestinum Rectum .
DDD The Mass , wherein the Skeleton is contained .
E The Costae plainly appearing .
F The Bladder laid aside .
G The Ureter cut off .
H The Uterus .
I The Ovary .
K The Tube .
L Part of the Colon .
M The Ulcer , through which the Excrements passed , about one Inch beneath the Navel .
N Bones in the Orifice of the Ulcer .

