count of several Experiments made to examine the Nature of the Expansion and Contraction of Fluids by Heat and Cold , in order to ascertain the Divisions of the Thermometer , and to make that Instrument , in all places , without adjusting by a Standard .
By Mr. Edm .
Halley , S. R. S. 6 .
An Account of a Book , viz. Novae Hypotheseos ad explicanda febrium intermittentium Symptomata &amp; Typos oxcogitatae , Hypotyposis , una cum aetiologia Remediorum ; speciatim vero de curatione per Corticem Peruvianum , accessit Dissertaticuncula de Intestinorum motu Peristaltico .
Authore Guilielmo Cole M.D. Imp .
Lond. in 8~ .
1693 .
Prostant apud S. Smith .
I. Some Experiments on a Black Shining Sand brought from Virginia , supposed to contain Iron , made in March 1689 .
By Allen Moulen , M. D. and Fellow of the Royal Society , since Dead .
1 .
A Small Phial filled with ordinary white Sand , and containing only 3j .
gr. xj .
being filled with the Virginia Sand was found to contain 3ij , ~ij , gr. j , that is , 3jss .
more than what was equal to it in bulk .
2 .
This Sand did apply to the Magnet both before and after Calcination , but the latter did apply better to it than the former .
3 .
A parcel of this Sand mixed and calcined with powdered Charcoal , and kept in a melting Furnace for about an hour , yielded no Regulus , but applied more vigorously to the Load-stone than either of the former .
4 .
I fluxed a parcel of this Sand with fixed Nitre in a melting Furnace for above an Hour , but could obtain no Regulus , nor any substance that would apply to the Magnet , excepting a thin Crust that struck firmly to a piece of Charcoal that dropped into the Crucible when the matter was in fusion .
5 .
I fluxed it also with Salt-Peter and powdered Charcoal , dropping pieces of Charcoal asterwards into the Crucible .
It continued about an hour in the melting Furnace in fusion , and that without producing a Regulus or a Substance that would apply to the Magnet , excepting only what stuck to the Charcoal , as in the former Experiment .
6 .
I fluxed another parcel of it with Salt-Peter and Flowers of Brimstone , without being able to procure any Regulus .
7 .
I poured good Spirit of Salt on a parcel of this Sand , but could observe no Luctation thereby produced .
8 .
I poured Spirit of Nitre both strong and weakned with Water on parcels of the same Sand , without being able to discover any Conflict .
9 .
I poured single Aqua fortis upon another parcel of it , without being able to perceive any Ebullition worth noting .
10 .
I poured double Aqua fortis upon another parcel of it , which for ought I could discover had no more effect on it then the former .
11 .
I poured also some Aqua Regia on a parcel of it , without discovering any sensible Effect .
12 .
I poured good Oil of Vitriol upon another of this Sand , but seeing no Bubbles thereby produced , I weakned the Oil with Water , but without any sensible effect .
13 .
I repeated all the former Experiments with the Menstruums upon this Sand after Calcination per se in a Crucible , but could scarce observe a Bubble produced by any of them .
14 .
I poured some of each of the Liquors upon Parcels of the Powder of this Sand calcined , without any Success .
Note , That I made these Experiments both in the Cold , and upon a Sand Furnace .
So that to me there seems to be but little wanting to discover any Metal known to us , if it contained any such : For there is no Metal nor Oar that some of these Menstruums will not work on .
15 .
I powdered a Fragment of a Load-stone , and poured some of these Menstruums upon it , without being able to find that they in the least preyed upon it , any more than they did upon the Sand .
16 .
I poured some of the aforementioned Menstruums upon ordinary Sand taken out of a Sand Furnace , where it must have suffered some Calcination , but could find no more Bubbles produced thereby , than what might rationally be supposed to be produced from time , and other Dirt mixed with the Sand .

