15 .
" An Experimental Inquiry into the Modes of Warming and Ventilating Apartments .
" By Andrew Ur , M.D. , F.R.S. The Author , having been consulted by the Directors of the Customs Fund of Life Assurance , on the mode of ventilating the Long Room in the Custom House , and deeming the subject one of great public interest , was induced to lay the result of his observations and experimental inquiries before the Royal Society .
In this room , about two hundred persons are busily engaged in transacting the business of the Institution .
All these persons are found to suffer more or less from ailments of the same general character , the leading symptoms of which are a sense of fulness and tension in the head , flushing of the face , throbbing of the temples , giddiness , and occasional confusion of ideas , depriving them of the power of dis ?
charging their duties , in which important and frequently intricate calculations are required to be gone through .
These symptoms of determination of blood to the head are generally accompanied by coldness and languid circulation in the feet and legs , and by a feeble , and frequent , as well as quick and irritable pulse .
On examining the air of the room by appropriate instruments , the author notices more especially three circumstances in which it differs from the ex ?
ternal air : first , its temperature , which is maintained with great uniformity within a range of 62 ?
to 64 ?
; secondly , its extreme dry ?
ness , which , on one occasion , measured by DanielPs hygrometer , was 70 per cent. : and thirdly , its negatively electrical state , as in ?
dicated by the condensing gold-leaf electrometer .
In all these qualities the air respired by the inmates of the room bears a close resemblance to the pestilential blasts of wind which , having passed rapidly over the scorching deserts of Arabiaand Africa , constitutes the Simoom of those regions , and is well known by its injurious of ?
fects on animal and vegetable life .
To these noxious qualities is superadded , as in the air of all rooms heated through the medium of cast-iron pipes or stoves , an offensive smell , arising partly from the partial combustion of animal and vegetable matters always floating in the atmosphere of a town , and perhaps also from minute impregnations of carbon , sulphur , phosphorus , or even arsenic , derived from the metal itself .
The Author expresses his surprise that in the recent report of the Parliamentary Committee on the subject of ventilation , no reference is made to the methods employed for that object in factories , although they afford the best models for imitation , being the results of innumerable exper ments made on a magnificent scale , with all the lights of science , and all the resources of the ablest engineers .
He proceeds to describe these methods j and is then led to investigate the comparative efficiency , with a view to ventilation , of a draught of air resulting from a fire and chimney , and thnt produced by the rotation of a fan~ventilator .
He shows that a given quantity of coal employed to impart motion to the latter , by means of a steam-engine , produces a ventilating 2 1 effect 38 times greater than can be obtained by the consumption of the same fuel in the ordinary modeof chimney ventilation .
Accord ?
ingly , he strongly advises the adoption of the former in preference to the latter : and inveighs against the stove-doctors of the present day , who , on pretence of economy and convenience , recommend the slow combustion of a large body of coke , by means of a slow circulation of air ; under which circumstances , it is well known to chemists that much carbonic oxide , a gas highly pernicious to all who respire it , is generated ; accompanied , at the same time , by a comparatively small evolution of heat .
In order to obtain the maximum quantity of heat from a given mass of fuel , its combus ?
tion , he observes , should be very vivid , and the evolved caloric should be diffused over the largest possible surface of conducting materials ; a principle which has been judiciously applied in several French factories .
It has been proved that work-people employed in calieo-drying rooms , heated according to the plan here reprobated , become wan , emaciated , and diseased ; while in rooms in which the air is more highly heated by means of steam-pipes , they preserve their health and florid complexion .

