164 The Natural and Induced Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
By E. F. Bashford , M.D. , J. A. Murray , M.B. , and W. Cramer , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Dr. J. Rose Bradford , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1906 , \#151 ; Read January 17 , 1907 .
) In the present paper we propose to give an account of experiments conducted during the past three years on the means whereby mice may be completely protected against .the inoculation of transplantable carcinomata , which grow readily in normal mice .
At the same time we shall show that these experiments throw fresh light on the nature of cancer .
The Executive Committee and the Pathological Sub-Committee of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund have been informed of the progress of these investigations , and some provisional results have also been l^id before the General Committee at the Annual Meetings .
The experiments are being continued , but some of the results which have accumulated make it advisable to give an account of the stage at which they have now arrived .
They are based mainly on a study of 23 transplantable carcinomata of the mamma of the mouse , and of other malignant new growths which could not be propagated artificially .
In these experiments we have used , for the most part , the growth of Jensen 's tumour in normal animals to bring out the changes induced in protected animals and the refractoriness of insusceptible animals ; but we shall also employ another tumour ( XXVII ) of different histology , which grows equally well under artificial propagation .
We have employed Jensen 's tumour as a standard for the following reasons :\#151 ; ( 1 ) It was the only tumour used to control some of our earlier observations ; ( 2 ) With proper precautions it gives regularly 85 to 100 per cent , of successful inoculations in a large number of animals ; ( 3 ) Within ten days the inoculation of 0 01 to 0*02 gramme of tumour tissue gives large easily recognisable tumours , often 1*5 grammes in weight ; ( 4 ) We have fully demonstrated that it may produce large metastases , that it may extend by the blood or lymphatic streams , and behave under experimental conditions typically as a malignant new growth ; ( 5 ) Its rate of growth is not exceeded by any mouse tumour now being propagated ; ( 6 ) It is in the hands of most investigators throughout the world , who will be able to repeat our observations .
It therefore fulfils better than any other tumour the requirements of such a standard .
Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
Historical .
Jensen stated in papers appearing in 1901 , 1902 , and 1903* that he had observed the complete disappearance of tumours from mice that had been inoculated successfully .
He added , however , that the " results of attempts to cure mice of tumours have hitherto been uncertain ; at times they have been positive to an unexpected extent , at other times they have been entirely negative .
" For this reason he postponed the detailed discussion of his experiments till he had come to a clearer understanding of their significance , and to more reliable results .
.Referring to the fact that 40 to 50 per cent , of the total inoculations of his tumour had been unsuccessful , Jensen interpreted this to mean that the mice were protected by some natural means .
It seemed to him impossible to explain the fact that a tumour which was growing well at the time of its removal from one mouse should be unable to grow in other mice , except on the assumption that the tumour had been transferred to a more refractory group of mice ; but he stated , " it appears that the nature of the inoculated tissue is of no little importance for the success attained .
So far as it is possible to form an estimate , the results appear less certain when small young tumours are .
used which are actively growing , and the percentage of successful inoculations is higher if the healthy portions be selected from older and larger tumours .
" Jensen especially pointed out that mice which had been unsuccessfully inoculated at the first essay were also refractory to subsequent inoculations ; but he was careful to point out that it would be a mistake to assert that the second negative result was solely the consequence of natural refractoriness , since it would be wrong to assume that the material inoculated and absorbed in the first instance had not contributed to the exemption subsequently exhibited .
Borrelf drew attention to the difficulties attending primary transplantation and recorded suggestive experiments directed to obtaining a polyvalent immune serum against human cancer , on the assumption that distinct sera might be necessary for tumours of different histological types .
In November , 1903 , we were able to add the study of Jensen 's tumour to that of tumours discovered by ourselves , and we at once began investigations along the lines indicated by Jensen .
In our earlier experiments , the * " Nogle Forsefg med Kraeftsvulster , " Lecture , December , 1901 ; " Fors^g med Musecancer , " Lecture , April , 1902 , ' Biolog .
Selskabs Forhandlinger , Kobenhavn , ' 1901\#151 ; 02 ; " Experimentelle Untersuchungen iiber Krebs bei Mausen , " ' Centr .
f. Bakt.,5 vol. 34 , 1903 .
+ " Epith61ioses infectieuses et Epitheliomas , " 'Annales de l'Inst .
Pasteur , ' vol. 11 , 1903 ; ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 73 , 1904 .
1.66 Dr , Bashford , Mr. Murray , and Dr. Cramer .
[ Dec. 10 , successful inoculation of Jensen 's tumour fluctuated between 20 and 90 per cent , of the number of animals inoculated .
In a series of papers* we have drawn attention to the greater susceptibility of young than old mice , to the important influence on the success of transplantation , of the character and phase of the tumours inoculated , the dosage , and site of inoculation .
In the course of a careful study of the process of absorption of tumours after exposure to radium , we showed its identity with localised changes in the majority of propagated tumours , changes which were found to have become general in the only case we had then noted where a tumour of three weeks ' growth and of 1 cm .
diameter had actually diminished in size.f While recognising the importance of haemorrhage as an integral part of the process of absorption both when spontaneous and following exposure to radium , we pointed out that the phase of growth of the tumour was also of great and probably decisive importance .
These observations harmonised well with Jensen 's experience , and tended to explain the irregularities in the disappearance of tumours under his observation .
Our position was summarised as follows :\#151 ; " No conclusion has yet been arrived at as to what are the essential and what the subsidiary features in this prolonged proliferation .
The variations make it difficult to correlate different observations , and to be sure of their proper interpretation .
Efforts to influence growth by immune ( cytolytic ) serum and other means have , in consequence , not yet led to any definite conclusion .
" Clowes , | working also with Jensen 's tumour , obtained 30 per cent , of success in normal animals .
He recorded spontaneous absorption in from 15\#151 ; 20 per cent , of his transplanted tumours .
The animals in which spontaneous absorption had occurred were stated to possess a specific antibody in their serum , which , on injection into animals with transplanted tumours , exerted a curative effect .
In only one case out of 20 mice so treated had the beneficial influence of the immune serum been missed .
In view of the low percentage of success obtained , the slow development of the * First and Second Scientific Reports of Imperial Cancer Research Fund , 1904 , 1905 ; ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 78 , 1906 .
+ We recorded the precautions we had taken in searching for tumours undergoing spontaneous absorption .
Clowes has taken this criticism of our own procedure as implying that in our opinion his " spontaneous recoveries were ulcerations " ( ' Brit. Med. Journ. , ' December 1 , 1906 ) .
Regression of inflammatory swellings may take place without ulceration , and our remarks apply to our own doubtful " tumours " of less than 14 days ' growth , within which time Clowes made no mention of tumours having appeared .
f " Preliminary Communication regarding an Immune Body Capable of Inhibiting the Development of Cancer in Mice , " 'Johns Hopkins Hosp .
Bull .
, 'April , 1905 ; " Further Evidence of Immunity against Cancer in Mice after Spontaneous Recovery , " Clowes and Baeslack , ' Medical News , ' November 18 , 1905 .
1906 .
] Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
tumours , and Jensen 's and our own experience , we then expressed scepticism of the curative results claimed by Clowes .
In his later papers these results are quoted , but a repetition of the positive results has not been recorded .
Evidence is adduced to show that the animals which have recovered spontaneously cannot be successfully inoculated .
This is regarded as an action of anti-bodies .
The presence of anti-bodies is further supported by experiments in which tumour material had been exposed , in the test-tube , to the action of the serum of spontaneously cured mice .
On inoculation , such material gave 12 per cent , of success , while material similarly treated with normal mouse serum gave 31 per cent. These three sets of observations are progressively evidence of a more limited action of the reputed immune sera .
The age of the animals used is not stated .
In March , 1906 , Ehrlich* remarks with reference to these experiments : " So berichtet Clowes , dass Mause , bei denen Tumoren spontan sir Resorption gelangen , in ihrem Serum carcinomfeindliche Stoffe enthalten .
Allerdings lassen sich gegen die Deutung dieser Yersuche mancherlei Einwendungen machen .
" Other papers , in which these and other observations are used as evidence of the infective nature of cancer , have also been published by Clowes , Gaylord , and Baeslack , from the Buffalo Cancer Laboratory , U.S.A.f MichaelisJ obtained success in the same proportion as in normal animals , on inoculating mice previously treated with tumour material killed by chloroform and other chemical agents .
EhrlichS found that from 60 to 90 per cent , of mice inoculated unsuccessfully with spontaneous ( especially haemorrhagic ) tumours were refractory on subsequent inoculation with a tumour giving 75 to 100 per cent , of success in normal animals .
Further , animals unsuccessfully inoculated with a tumour giving nearly maximal percentage of success in normal mice , were highly refractory to subsequent inoculation .
This resistance was manifest whether the second inoculations were made with the same or other tumours ( pan-immunity ) .
Animals already successfully inoculated with a quickly growing tumour could not again be inoculated with a rapidly growing tumour * " Experimentelle Carcinomstudien an Mausen , " ' Arbeiten a. d. Kgl .
Inst. f. exp .
Therapie , ' 1906 .
t " On Spontaneous Cure of Cancer , " 'Surgery , Gynaecology , and Obstetrics , ' June , 1906 ; " Incubation of Mouse Tumours , " 'Journ .
of Exp. Medicine , ' August , 1906 ; " A Study of the Influence Exerted by a Variety of Physical and Chemical Forces on the Virulence of Cancer in Mice , " * Brit. Med. Journ. , ' December 1 , 1906 ; " Evidences that Infected Cages are the Source of Spontaneous Cancer developing among Small Caged Animals , " ibid. + ' Zeitschr .
f. Krebsforschung , ' vol. 4 , 1906 .
S " Experimentelle Carcinomstudien an Mausen , " ' Zeitschr .
f. arzl .
Fortbildung , ' 1906 , and loc. cit. VOL. LXXIX.\#151 ; B. O Dr. Bashford , Mr. Murray , and Dr. Cramer .
[ Dec. 10 , ( atreptic immunity ) : the tumour already established withdraws special nutritive substances ( substance X ) from the circulation , so that the new graft cannot grow .
A similar explanation is invoked for the rarity , or small size , of metastasis in mice with large transplanted growths .
Eepeated inoculation of negative mice leads to a very refractory condition in the animals which never develop tumours .
Eats can be successfully inoculated with rapidly growing mouse tumours .
Growth proceeds for a time and then ceases ( atrepsie ) , and the animals are then refractory to further inoculation ( active immunity ) .
Summary of the Present Investigation .
After discussing:\#151 ; 1 .
The distinction to he drawn between the conditions of origin of a sporadic tumour and the conditions of growth of cancer in mice , and its hearing on experimental investigations .
2 .
The importance of natural variations in the resistance of mice to inoculation and of inherent variations in the energy of growth of the tumour cells .
We shall adduce evidence that:\#151 ; 3 .
Mice in which a growing carcinoma has been spontaneously absorbed may be completely protected against subsequent inoculation of the same growth , and to a lesser extent against other and different growths .
Similarly , protection follows absorption of tumours after exposure to radium .
4 .
Protection may be induced , or , when naturally present , enhanced by the inoculation of tumour material when no growth has resulted .
This protection is specific , and has only been induced in mice by the inoculation of mouse tumours , and not by those of strange species .
This specificity has an important bearing on the nature of cancer .
5 .
Protection can also be induced by the inoculation of normal mouse tissues , and particularly by the inoculation of blood .
We shall discuss the probable nature of the protection conferred ; its action by means of the body fluids , at any rate in part , leading to the death of the cancer cells after short sojourn in the body of protected animals .
( 1 ) The Distinction to be drawn between the Conditions of Origin of a Sporadic Tumour and the Conditions of Growth of Cancer in Mice , and its bearing on Experimental Investigations .
When the energy of growth of the cells of a propagable tumour is great and a high percentage of all inoculations are successful , the variations in the 1906 .
] Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
natural resistance of the mice become of subsidiary importance .
On the contrary , they are of great practical importance when the energy of growth is low , and in the primary transplantations of sporadic tumours .
As we have shown , the growth of a sporadic tumour is probably to be regarded as heterogeneous .
Growth is proceeding rapidly in one part , and slowly or actually ceasing in another .
When a sporadic tumour is transplanted into a large number of mice , according to our procedure , it is subdivided into minute fragments , and not made into a general emulsion .
Each fragment is separately emulsified before transplantation , and the result of transplantation is that the tumour is distributed over a large number of animals .
Success , as a rule , follows only in a small proportion of the inoculations , and it appears probable that it is determined by the segregation of groups of cells of higher energy of growth in mice whose resistance to inoculation is below the average .
The energy of growth of the tumour cells and the resistance of the mice together contribute to the positive result .
In this way the cells most likely to continue to grow are separated and , by the repetition of the process , a tumour is propagated by transplantation from one series of mice to another .
We may illustrate this by a summary of the transplantation of some sporadic tumours .
We have found that malignant new growths are encountered in mice of all ages taken at random in a proportion of one tumour in 3500 animals .
The final results of transplanting 32 spontaneous tumours of the mamma show that 2278 of the mice inoculated survived a sufficient time* to permit of a final estimation , and 72 tumours have developed , i.e. , one inoculation in 31*1 is successful , or 3'2 per cent. The conditions for successful transplantation are at least 100 times more frequent in mice than spontaneous tumours .
Fifteen out of 32 sporadic tumours transplanted gave negative results on 1073 inoculations .
Many of these tumours were apparently very rapid in their rate of growth in the animal spontaneously affected , and extensive metastasis was present in the lungs after death .
Ehrlich records similar results on primary transplantation of 94 spontaneous tumours : 1504 inoculations were made and 41 tumours were obtained in the inoculated animals ( 2*8 per cent. ) .
The percentage of success ( 8'2 per cent. ) of the primary transplantation of the tumours ( 14 in number ) which gave positive results at all , was much higher than in our experiments .
Apparently our method of primary transplantation by small grafts in a large number of young animals , gives success with tumours which would be completely * The results of the primary transplantation of sporadic tumours have been calculated on the number of mice surviving three weeks later .
170 Dr , Bashford , Mr. Murray , and Dr. Cramer .
[ Dec. 10 , negative when propagated in the way he has adopted ( large doses and smaller number of animals ) .
The following experiments were undertaken because of the difficulties met with in obtaining a positive result in the primary transplantations of spontaneous tumours .
It was of importance to determine whether the spontaneously affected animals were more suitable for transplantation , both of their own tumours ( on the analogy of metastasis ) and of other spontaneous tumours .
The difficulty of transplanting many mouse tumours , especially those with extensive haemorrhage , has led observers who had failed to transplant them to conclude that those tumours were of low " virulence .
" We had already succeeded* in three instances where others had failed in transplanting these haemorrhagic tumours , the daughter tumours being also haemorrhagic , and had observed that they produced extensive metastasis in the animals primarily affected .
We were , therefore , of the opinion that it was wrong to conclude from the difficulty of transplantation that they were of low virulence .
We have prolonged the lives of mice presenting spontaneous tumours by removing the primary growth by operation , wholly or partially .
This has permitted us to study their suitability for transplantation , both for their own and for other spontaneous tumours , and to compare it with the suitability of normal animals .
The opportunities for such experiments are rare .
Up to the present 13 animals presenting spontaneous tumours have been inoculated with their own and other spontaneous tumours .
The results for 11 of these animals are now available , and are as follows :\#151 ; Two mice ( XXXIII and XXXIV ) could be successfully inoculated with their own tumours , and in the case of one of them ( XXXIII ) three normal animals also developed tumours out of 97 inoculated and surviving three weeks after inoculation .
In the case of the second mouse , her tumour gave negative results in 140 normal animals , although successfully inoculated into herself .
A third spontaneous tumour ( XXXII ) gave four tumours in 156 normal animals , was negative in the mouse spontaneously affected , but positive in another mouse ( XXXIII ) with spontaneous cancer .
A fourth spontaneous tumour ( XL ) inoculated into 49 normal animals , failed to grow and was likewise negative in two mice with spontaneous cancer ( XXXVII and XXXVIII ) .
A fifth spontaneous tumour ( XXX ) gave one tumour in 72 inoculations into normal animals , but failed to grow in three other mice ( XXV , XXVII and XXVIII ) spontaneously suffering from cancer , as well as in the mouse herself .
Three inoculations were made in each of these four mice .
* Second Scientific Report , 1905 , Part II , pp. 19 and 30 .
1906 .
] Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
171 A mouse which had been repeatedly inoculated unsuccessfully with Jensen 's tumour developed a spontaneous growth of different histological type ( XXXVIII ) seven months later .
This tumour , transplanted into 86 normal animals , gave rise to 20 tumours , of which 18 , after attaining a diameter of 5 mm. and over , disappeared spontaneously .
The mouse in which this tumour had developed remained protected against Jensen 's and refractory to four spontaneous tumours .
The experiments are very few in number , and only tentative conclusions can at present he drawn from them .
Five spontaneous tumours were transplanted into 11 mice in all , spontaneously affected with cancer .
The results above recorded show that transplantation does not reveal conditions exceptionally favourable for growth in them , as compared with normal animals .
The animal itself is only exceptionally successfully inoculated .
Bearing in mind the small number of spontaneously affected animals inoculated as compared with the large numbers of normal animals , these experiments show that spontaneously affected animals are not greatly more susceptible to cancerous inoculation than normal animals.* Tumours which do not grow in normal animals rarely grow when transferred to other parts of the animal 's own body , and not at all in other spontaneously affected animals .
These facts , together with the development of a tumour in a mouse previously inoculated unsuccessfully with Jensen 's tumour , further emphasise the distinction to be drawn between the conditions of origin and the conditions of growth .
They also seem to render superfluous any subsidiary assumption of a constitutional condition as necessary in addition to the primary cancerous transformation in the development of spontaneous cancer.]* * The results of the above experiments might , on superficial examination , appear to justify the opposite conclusion to that drawn by us .
The tumours of mice XXXIII and XXXIV were transplanted successfully , in those mice themselves in single experiments , as against only three successes out of 99 attempts in normal animals in the one case , and with negative results in 176 attempts in the other .
Of all the sporadic tumours transplanted into other mice suffering naturally from cancer , XXXII alone grew in a single experiment , giving at the same time only four successes out of 156 attempts in normal mice .
It would thus appear that 100 per cent , of success had been attained on three separate occasions when transplantation was effected into mice naturally suffering from cancer , as against very low percentages in normal mice .
The results speak for a greater suitability for inoculation on the part of individual mice , but not for a greater suitability on the part of all mice which are naturally the victims of cancer .
The conclusion as to individual susceptibility is only justified if the distinction be borne in mind between transplanting a tumour into the mouse in which it grew primarily , and into any mouse afflicted with spontaneous cancer .
The two cases are not the same , as pointed out later on .
The fact that a mouse is suffering naturally from cancer does not imply a greater suitability for transplantation generally.\#151 ; Added Feb. 8 , 1907 .
+ Cf.y however , p. 184 , Summary .
Dr. Bashford , Mr. Murray , and Dr. Cramer .
[ Dec. 10 , A clear conception is required of the necessity for interpreting the results of the experiments about to be described as bearing directly on the conditions of growth only and their artificial modification .
By inference , they have also important bearings on the nature of cancer ; but we desire to enforce caution in anticipating prophylactic or therapeutic actions as likely to follow the use of those measures we have found efficacious in raising the resistance of animals to transplantation .
( 2 ) The Importance of Natural Variations in the Resistance of Mice to Inoculation , and of Inherent Variations in the Energy of Growth of the Tumour Cells .
In previous communications we have directed attention to variations in the susceptibility of individual mice to inoculation with a number of different mammary tumours of the mouse .
The natural insusceptibility to inoculation to which we particularly wish to draw attention in the present communication is that which we have stated was still present after the disturbing influences of race , age , dosage , and fluctuations in the powers of growth of the cancerous cells , have been allowed for in artificial propagation of transplantable tumours .
In earlier papers we used the natural resistance of the animals as an indicator of the variations of the power of proliferation of the cancer cells .
We shall now conversely use the tumour-cells as indicators of the susceptibility of the inoculated animals .
In such experiments the number of animals necessary is inversely proportionate to the percentage of successful inoculations attainable .
Where the tumour gives a maximal success in normal animals , the number necessary in each experiment can be reduced , and must be correspondingly increased when the percentage of success in normal animals is lower .
Experiments in which less than 60 per cent , of the normal animals develop tumours are open to grave objections , and will not be employed in this paper .
Until wTe can experimentally determine the development of cancer de , we are necessarily confined to a study of its growth and the conditions which favour or hinder it when cancerous tissue is inoculated into mice .
The differences between mice of different susceptibility are expressed quantitatively in differences in the percentages of successful inoculations .
In all these experiments we have to take account of two variable factors of prime importance which are beyond experimental control:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The varying natural susceptibility of the mice ; ( 2 ) The varying energy of growth of the tumour cells .
These vary independently of each other , and under normal circumstances , 1906.1 Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
173 either alone or in conjunction with one another , they determine the phenomena of growth under artificial propagation .
Hence , extensive control experiments are necessary at every step in attempts to modify growth artificially , for a low percentage of success may be due to a refractory condition in the mice used , or to a lower energy of growth of the tumour cells .
In addition , other factors of less importance can introduce variations which are detailed below , and must be excluded .
The following precautions have been taken to obtain results which may be legitimately compared .
The differences which have been elicited in these experiments are in many cases slight , and dependent on very subtle alterations in the animals .
In order to measure them , it has been found advisable to work on the margin of maximum success in transplantation .
In order to obtain comparable results under otherwise similar experimental conditions , attention must .be paid to ( 1 ) the dose of tumour material , ( 2 ) the age of the animals , and ( 3 ) the site of inoculation .
The inoculations must be carried out in such a way that " tumour formation " or " no tumour formation " can be determined by the conditions of the animals for the most part .
We have worked mostly with a " minimal tumour-forming " dose , although multiples of this dose have been employed for special purposes .
Large doses frequently lead to the development of tumours in animals which are completely protected against , or refractory to , smaller doses .
Then the refractory condition , or relative protection , may only be indicated by the smaller size and less rapid growth of the resulting tumours , as compared with normal mice .
A cleaner result is obtained when the dose , while sufficient to produce tumours in normal animals within 10 days , fails to lead to any proliferation whatsoever , thereby indicating the presence of abnormal refractoriness in the animals whose resistance is being tested .
Our animals not being very highly protected , many of the differences we shall record are only clearly elicited by the use of small doses .
The use of large doses obscures them when results are recorded as percentages of successful inoculations .
The difference between different sites is best brought out by small doses , and obscured by the use of large doses .
Young mice are more susceptible to inoculation than old animals .
The difference in percentage of success may be as great as 60 per cent , between animals of seven weeks , on the one hand , and those of one year old , on the other hand .
In ' the following experiments the control animals have always been chosen of the same size ( and therefore of approximately the same age ) as the animals whose resistance is tested .
This precaution is necessary in all such experiments , because the duration of the preliminary treatment whose effect is under discussion , of itself entails an alteration in the susceptibility of mice whose total duration of life is short .
Dr. Bashford , Mr. Murray , and Dr. Cramer .
[ Dec. 10 , During the continued propagation of Jensen 's tumour in the last three years , series of inoculations have been obtained repeatedly with maximal percentage of success .
The method of repeated subdivision of the parenchyma into the small grafts necessary for the analysis of growth , showed that each such maximum was followed by a rapid and great diminution in the percentage of success , on which again an increase ensued , till a fresh maximum was encountered .
The complication which these fluctuations introduce has been in great part avoided in the following way .
By choosing a suitable interval for inoculation of tumours selected from series with from 90 to 100 per cent , of success , and especially by increasing the Graphic Record of Propagation through ten Passages of a single Strain of Jensen 's Carcinoma in which success has not fallen below 85 per cent. initial dose introduced into each animal from 0*01 to 0 05 gramme , we have been able to evade the diminution usually following each maximum for a considerable number of transferences .
This result is artificial .
It does not indicate an increased " virulence " of the tumour cells , or a continuous growth of uniform energy on their part .
It is in complete harmony with the results of the experimental analysis of the growth of cancer as we have already described it .
In the case of other tumours we have obtained the same result in the same way , but most speedily in the case of spontaneous tumour XXVII , which at the third transplantation gave 80 per cent , of successful inoculations , and at the fifth 98 per cent. , the success of the primary transplantation being only 20 per cent. Separate strains of Jensen 's tumour have been propagated , as indicated in 1906.1 Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
the accompanying graphic record , through successive transplantations , without the percentage of success in the direct line of propagation having fallen below 85 per cent. This is merely the result of an artificial selection of the tumours obtained at each successive transplantation .
It furnishes a special case of the process already described in detail , and receives mention here because of the great convenience of maximum success in inoculation for controlling the experiments with which the present paper deals , and because other observers have not yet succeeded in attaining to this maximum of transplantability in the case of Jensen 's tumour .
These results , together with the other facts mentioned on a previous page , entirely do away with the statements that Jensen 's tumour is not virulent .
We have sent our strain of Jensen 's tumour to Professor Uhlenhuth and Professor von Dungern .
The primary results they have communicated to us show that , in English mice , Professor Uhlenhuth obtained 90 per cent , of success and Professor von Dungern 85 per cent. In German mice the results were 90 per cent , and 50 per cent , respectively .
The slight differences which suffice to determine the success or failure of transplantation are exemplified in the following series of experiments , which were devised to demonstrate the inherent fluctuations of nearly allied strains of the same tumour under the same conditions at each transference .
Incidentally the experiments revealed the danger of comparing together inoculations not strictly in the same site .
Two strains of the same tumour were propagated simultaneously on opposite sides of the body of the same mice .
The strains used were chosen because of moderate powers of growth , and the fluctuations they had exhibited .
On a series of 11 passages , it was found that the axilla was invariably a more suitable site than the dorsal subcutaneous tissue : 59 mice out of 286 developed tumours both back and front , 18 mice had tumours only on the back , and 59 only on the front .
The difference between the dorsal and ventral sites is in all probability comparable to that already recorded by us between the dorsal subcutaneous tissue and the peritoneal cavity .
The most natural explanation of the difference would seem to be that the connective tissue reaction , which we have shown is specific and without which the grafts cannot grow , is more readily supplied by the connective tissue of the mammary region .
In these experiments we also noted that whenever a tumour of the low percentage strain developed on the back , it almost always had its fellow in the axilla , the converse not holding good .
When the greater suitability of the axilla had been established beyond all possibility of doubt , the experiment was continued through five successive passages in the right and left axilla .
The results , as a whole , are more Dr. Bashford , Mr. Murray , and Dr. Cramer .
[ Dec. 10 , uniform in this series .
Out of 95 mice inoculated , 59 developed tumours on both sides , five on the right side only , and 11 on the left side only .
The two strains , propagated in the right and left axilla respectively , fluctuated practically independently of one another , at one time a higher percentage was obtained in the right axilla , at another time in the left .
It is to he noted , however , that whenever the strain with the lower percentage for the time being was able to establish itself on its side , the tumour giving a higher percentage always succeeded in establishing itself on the opposite side of that individual mouse , so that a tumour of the strain with lower percentage never occurred singly , each had its fellow on the opposite side in the more numerous tumours of the high percentage strain .
Hence the differences in percentage of success between the two strains are considered to be due to fluctuations in the powers of proliferation of the cells of each , and to be independent of the susceptibility or resistance of the mice in which they are , or have been , growing .
If the resistance of the mice in the right or left axilla be assumed to be similar , then this resistance really serves merely as a measure of the varying qualities of the tumour cells .
It plays the part of a sieve , as it were , which keeps back the cells with less powers of assimilation and growth , and permits those others to pass which can survive the hindrance to their continued existence and multiplication .
( 3 ) Mice in which a Geowing Carcinoma has been Spontaneously Absorbed may be Completely Protected against Subsequent Inoculation of the same Growth and to a lesser extent AGAINST OTHER AND DIFFERENT GROWTHS .
Animals in which tumours have developed and then have been absorbed are highly refractory to further inoculation .
This protection may be absolute .
This fact is sufficiently evidenced by the following experiments .
The animals were re-inoculated in another part of the body after complete disappearance of the first tumour .
The control animals were inoculated in the same place as the second experiment of the spontaneously-recovered mice .
Protocol to Illustrate Absolute Protection after Spontaneous Absorption .
A. Experiment 61 , ii M ( 1 ) .
Tumour taken from a mouse of transplantation 60 , Series V , was transplanted into the right axilla of 20 normal mice .
Eight tumours developed in the 12 animals surviving after 10 days ( 64 per cent. ) .
( 2 ) The same tumour was also inoculated at the same time into 36 mice which had been previously inoculated successfully in the right axilla , but in whom the tumours evident after 10 days ultimately disappeared .
Two small tumours developed in the 33 animals surviving after 10 days ( 6 per cent. ) .
1906 .
] Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
177 B. ( 1 ) Experiment 62 , ii K. Thirteen days after the inoculation recorded above , 15 of those mice which had presented no tumours were re-inoculated in the left axilla , with tumour of transplantation 61 , Series ii N. No tumours developed , while 15 normal animals inoculated with the same tumour presented 13 tumours after 10 days ( 87 per cent. ) .
( 2 ) Experiment 62 , ii L. The remaining 15 mice of Experiment 61 , ii M , were inoculated in the left axilla on the same day with a tumour of transplantation 61 , Series ii J. No tumours developed , while 15 normal animals inoculated with the same tumour all presented tumours after 10 days ( 100 per cent. ) .
The protected animals were further inoculated unsuccessfully , and were then used to test the properties of the blood .
Protection similar to that afforded against Jensen 's tumour by its spontaneous absorption is also manifested by animals in which other spontaneous tumours of different histology have grown for a time , and the tumours been absorbed .
Of the tumours on which such observations have been made , XIX was an adeno-carcinoma with cystic spaces and widespread haemorrhages ; XXYII another adeno-carcinoma tending to become alveolar , i.e. , approaching the histological type of Jensen 's tumour , and XXXYII .a malignant adenoma with little tendency to form solid alveoli , while XXXYIII was also an adeno-carcinoma with small acini interspersed with solid alveolar portions .
The animals in which tumours have disappeared after exposure to radium s , re refractory in the same way and to a similar degree as those in which absorption has occurred spontaneously .
This is only what was to be expected in view of the probable identity between the process of absorption in the two cases , as described in a previous paper .
The general conclusion can be drawn that recovery from one form of tumour of the mamma protects against subsequent inoculation with other forms .
When protection is absolute in the case of the tumour recovered from , it is not necessarily also absolute for other tumours .
There is thus a suggestion of a specificity in the protection .
The mice which have recovered from experimental cancer have undergone a change conferring on them a degree of protection as high as that presented by the most refractory of normal animals .
This alteration is not confined to the tissues in the immediate neighbourhood of the spontaneously absorbed tumour ; it must have become general by means of the body fluids .
\lt ; 4 ) Protection may be Induced or , when Naturally Present , Enhanced by the Inoculation of Tumour Material when no Growth Results .
We have already pointed out that the animals which have been unsuccessfully inoculated with small fragments of a tumour giving a low or moderate 178 Dr. Bashford , Mr. Murray , and Dr. Cramer .
[ Dec. 10 , .
percentage of success may , on re-inoculation , give a positive result in a proportion little inferior to a series of control animals .
The negative result in the first instance was thus due not entirely to the inoculation of refractory animals , but largely to the low powers of proliferation of the tumour-cells , introduced .
Protocol .
Tumour XV .
Mouse with a large tumour of the fifth transplantation received from Cologne ( Dr. O. Schmidt ) , together with 10 normal mice .
We effected the sixth transplantation into 10 normal Cologne mice , and 147 normal English mice .
In the English mice , three tumours presented themselves in the 61 mice-which survived 10 days after inoculation ( 5 per cent. ) .
Four tumours developed in the-10 Cologne mice , all having survived ( 40 per cent. ) .
One month later one of the tumours which had developed in a Cologne mouse was transplanted into 45 English mice and the three Cologne mice which alone had survived out of the six negative animals in the previous experiment .
All the three Cologne mice developed tumours , 100 per cent. , while only two tumours developed in the 20 English mice surviving after 10 days .
Repeated re-inoculation of the negative animals with small doses of tumour leads to the sifting out of a residuum which may possess a high degree of resistance .
As the end result of such a process of elimination by successive inoculation , animals can be obtained in which , while similar control animals-give 70 to 80 per cent , of success , only from 10 to 12 per cent , of successful inoculations are obtained .
When , however , the small number of animals , unsuccessfully inoculated in an experiment with sub-maximal success are ; re-inoculated , they evince a decided increased refractoriness as compared with normal animals .
Some change in the animals following upon the ; absorption of inoculation material is not an unimportant factor in the ; development of this condition , as already suggested by Jensen .
That such is the case seems more than probable from the result following , when the ; initial and subsequent inoculations are made with large doses , more than , 0*05 gramme of tumour material .
Here the refractory condition is increased in a much shorter series of inoculations , so that already at the third or even at the second inoculation , a diminution of 50 to 60 per cent , may be observed as compared with normal animals .
This result confirms Ehrlich 's , observations on the same subject .
Protocol to Illustrate Increased Resistance after a Preceding Negative Inoculation .
Nineteen normal mice were inoculated in the left axilla with 0*04 gramme of a tumour of transplantation 62 , Series ii C , * the experiment being labelled " 63 S. " All the mice survived , but two only presented tumours after 10 days .
Thirteen days after this* Transplantation 62 , ii C , had given 19 tumours in 19 mice ( 100 per cent. ) .
The low percentage obtained in 63 S , and the negative result in 63 T , the experiments providing ; 1906 .
] Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
179 inoculation , 13 of those 17 negative animals were re-inoculated in the right axilla with a tumour of transplantation 63 , Series M , the experiment being labelled " 64 W. " Of the six animals surviving after 10 days , only one presented a tumour ( 17 per cent. ) .
Of 15 normal mice which had been similarly inoculated among the 11 surviving after 10 days , eight presented tumours ( 72 per cent. ) .
Twenty-three normal mice were inoculated in the left axilla with 0-04 gramme of another tumour of transplantation 62 , Series ii 0 , the experiment being labelled " 63 T. " No tumours developed in the 20 animals surviving after 10 days .
Thirteen days after the preceding inoculation , 19 of the mice were re-inoculated in the right axilla with 0*03 gramme of a second tumour of transplantation 63 , Series M , the experiment being labelled " 64 V. " Of the 18 mice surviving after 10 days , five presented tumours ( 27 per cent. ) .
Fifteen normal mice were similarly inoculated , 12 survived , and 10 presented tumours after 10 days ( 81 per cent. ) .
Differences in the size of dose of tumour probably explain the apparently contradictory experience of others who have failed to produce protection in this way , and of our own earlier experiments where the re-inoculation of the negative animals gave a percentage almost as high as in the first instance .
The mass of tumour absorbed in the course of three or four negative inoculations with 0'05 gramme is so great that the animals , although never developing tumours , cannot he regarded as comparable with animals in our earlier experiments which , inoculated the same number of times , have only received relatively insignificant doses ( 0*01 to 0*02 gramme ) .
Refractoriness to various spontaneous mouse tumours is apparently reciprocal .
Animals which have been unsuccessfully inoculated with large doses of one spontaneous tumour , whether carcinoma or sarcoma , are less suitable for the transplantation of other carcinomata than are normal animals .
This fact receives a natural explanation in the results of experiments detailed below on the protection conferred by the injection of normal mouse blood .
On the other hand , the inoculation of mice with tumour material from strange species\#151 ; rat , cat , dog , man\#151 ; has not induced a refractory state .
The protection induced in mice is therefore to be interpreted , not as conferred by properties common to the malignant new growths of different species , but only of the same species , by the absorption of substances common to the tumours and tissues of the mouse .
( 5 ) Protection can also be Induced by the Inoculation of Normal Tissues , and Particularly by the Inoculation of Blood .
Early in 1904 we were enabled , through the courtesy of Professor C. J. Martin , F.R.S. , of the Lister Institute , to study the effects of immunising the negative mice referred to , is a phenomenon to which we have previously drawn attention ( vide 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' June , 1906 ) .
The tumour tissue inoculated was in what we have designated , for convenience , the negative phase of growth .
Dr. Bashford , Mr. Murray , and Dr. Cramer .
[ Dec. 10 animals , including rabbits , guinea-pigs , rats , and mice against mouse tissues , ( liver , kidney , testis ) and tumour , all of which had been freed from blood by washing out the circulation with normal saline , and ground to a fine powder at the temperature of liquid air .
The results were unsatisfactory , apart from the exhibition of a distinct specific haemolytic action on the erythrocytes of mice on the part of the serum of animals immunised against each of the blood-free tissues and a precipitin reaction with mouse serum .
In particular , no satisfactory evidence of a specific action on the living cells of mouse tumours could be obtained either in the test-tube or in the body .
We were led to investigate more fully the effects of the absorption of mouse blood on normal mice , not only because of the difficulty of working with the other tissues , but because of the following considerations : Haemorrhage is frequent in the process of absorption of tumours after exposure to radium , and during spontaneous absorption .
A number of haemorrhagic tumours successfully transplanted in the first instance were found to be peculiarly liable to spontaneous absorption , and in their case the condition was comparable to what is now well known to occur in human chorion-epithelioma .
In this connection , we are indebted to Dr. J. H. Teacher for drawing our attention , early in 1905 , to the frequency of the spontaneous disappearance of the metastatic growths of chorion-epithelioma and their haemorrhagic character .
It was found that an injection of 0'3 to 0*5 c.c. of defibrinated normal mouse blood induced a definite refractory condition , even in young animals .
It is not so marked four days after injection as at 10 days , and persists for at least three weeks .
The repetition of the blood injection after 10 days does not markedly increase the refractory condition .
The animals thus protected do not ultimately develop tumours when observed during a period of three months .
Protocol to Illustrate Protection Conferred by a Preceding Injection of Normal Mouse Blood .
Experiment 61 T. Sixteen mice received an injection of 0*3 c.c. of normal defibrinated mouse blood on the back .
Five days later they were inoculated in the right axilla with 0*01 to 0*02 gramme of a tumour of transplantation 60 , Series ii P. All the mice survived , and seven presented tumours after 10 days ( 44 per cent. ) .
At the same time 30 normal mice were inoculated with the same doses of the same tumour , also in the right axilla .
Of the 26 animals surviving after 10 days , 19 presented tumours ( 73 per cent. ) .
The tumours in normal animals were throughout larger than those in the mice previously treated with blood .
Experiment 62 Q. Twenty-eight mice received 0*3 c.c. normal defibrinated mouse blood on the back .
Eleven days later they were inoculated in the right axilla with 0*01 to 0*02 gramme of a tumour of transplantation 61 , Series S. Three tumours developed in the 15 animals surviving after 10 days ( 20 per cent. ) .
At the same time 30 normal animals were inoculated in the same place with the same dose of the same tumour .
All 1906 .
] Resistance of Mice to the Growth of .
survived , and 19 presented tumours after 10 days ( 66 per cent. ) .
The tumours in treated animals were smaller and grew less rapidily than those in the normal mice .
Experiment 62 Z. Fifteen mice received an injection of normal defibrinated mouse blood .
Ten days later they were inoculated in the right axilla with 0*02 gramme of a tumour of transplantation 61 , Series ii E. All the mice survived , and 10 presented tumours after 10 days ( 67 per cent. ) .
At the same time 15 normal animals were inoculated in right axilla in the same way .
Ten mice survived , and all presented tumours after.10 days ( 100 per cent. ) .
The same relation was again observed between the tumours in the two series .
Experiment 61 , ii E. Thirty-nine mice received 0'3 c.c. of normal defibrinated mouse blood on the back .
Seven days later they were inoculated in the right axilla with 0*02 gramme of a tumour of transplantation 60 , Series X. Of the 38 mice surviving after 10 days , 15 presented tumours ( 39 per cent. ) .
At the same time 20 normal animals were similarly inoculated .
All the 15 animals surviving after 10 days presented tumours ( 100 per cent. ) .
The same difference in the size and rate of growth was observed in the animals treated with blood .
The difficulty of readily obtaining large numbers of young mice artificially protected against carcinoma has been a hindrance to the studies of this kind .
We have depended on the selection of animals which had been negative to repeated inoculations , or on collecting mice in which spontaneous absorption had occurred .
Both proceedings take up a large amount of time and lead to experiments being conducted under unfavourable conditions , owing to the greater suitability of young animals for growth ( and therefore for control experiments ) .
By means of a preceding injection of blood , however , the initial stages of the refractory state can be quickly induced in young mice , and the condition then enhanced by suitable doses of tumour material .
When once the initial stages have been passed , there is little difficulty in increasing the refractoriness .
Experiments conducted in this way appear to show that normal mouse serum ( 0*3 to 0*5 c.c. ) free from corpuscles does not confer protection to anything like the same extent , if at all .
The blood-corpuscles , suspended in saline after being freed from the serum by centrifuging , on the contrary , were nearly as efficacious as full defibrinated blood .
The blood was injected into the dorsal subcutaneous tissue over the root of the tail .
The inoculations were then made into the axilla , either on one or both sides .
The absence of the same degree of protective action after the injection of serum appears to show that it is not due to mere super-addition of protective substances normally present in the blood of the mouse , but rather that the protection results from the active intervention of the living tissues in dealing with the injected corpuscles .
Although young mice are much more susceptible to inoculation , no difference could be discerned between animals treated with the blood of young and old mice respectively .
Dr. Bashford , Mr. Murray , and Dr. Cramer .
[ Dec. 10 , The blood of other .
nearly allied animals ( rat , rabbit , guinea-pig ) called forth no such alteration , so that the action is strictly specific to the mouse .
These effects are best brought out when the inoculations are made with the smallest convenient dose capable of giving rise to maximal percentages of tumours and which lies in our experiments between 1 and 2 centigrammes .
" When larger doses ( 5 centigrammes ) are employed , the percentage of tumours developing in the treated animals rose , although it did not reach that in control animals , and the tumours which did develop also remained smaller .
In one experiment , however , in which massive doses were inoculated , tumours subsequently developed in the animals in which no growth had appeared within 10 days .
Here , apparently , the larger dose of tumour had exhausted the protective property , and subsequently growth was possible .
The resistance of animals in which spontaneous absorption has occurred has not been overcome in the same way by increasing the dose of tissue inoculated .
Whether this points to a difference in degree only , or a qualitative difference in the protection in the two cases , remains to be determined .
The nature of the action which the body fluids of protected animals have upon tumour tissue in the days immediately following transplantation has been approached in the following manner , after failure to obtain satisfactory results in the test-tube .
The failure signifies nothing particular , and may be due either to low degree of protection or imply merely that a complex action takes place in the body , and one we have not reproduced vitro .
A number of animals in which tumours had spontaneously disappeared were inoculated with large doses of tumour tissue , and at the same time twice as many normal animals were inoculated in the same way .
After varying intervals the implanted tissue was removed from the protected animals and transferred to young normal animals , and the results compared with those obtained by re-inoculating the tissue removed from a similar number of the control animals , sufficient of whom were left alive to prove the vitality of the tissues inoculated in the first instance .
These experiments are still in progress , but there seems little doubt that , as compared with normal animals , the tumour tissue rapidly dies in those protected by spontaneous absorption .
Summary .
Many apparently contradictory statements as to induced resistance of mice to inoculation may be harmonised when due attention is paid to ( 1 ) the susceptibility of young mice and the refractoriness of old mice , ( 2 ) to the variations in success which depend on the size of the dose of tumour inoculated , and ( 3 ) on the varying qualities of the cells of any one tumour 1906.1 Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
at different times according as they are in the positive or negative phases of growth .
When small doses of tumour , 0*01 to 0'02 gramme , are unsuccessfully inoculated into young and susceptible mice , a second inoculation is often successful ; similar doses will give negative results in a large proportion of adult animals at the first inoculation , and also on subsequent inoculation .
The differences between young and old mice and between the employment of small and large doses explain contradictory statements to the effect that apparently refractory animals of a primary inoculation can or cannot be subsequently inoculated .
When large doses of growing tumour are successfully inoculated into young mice , giving nearly 100 per cent , of success , the same proportion is not always obtained in adult animals , although their relative refractoriness can often be.overcome by such an increase in dose , provided the tumour tissue is in the positive phase of growth .
Young mice which prove refractory to such large doses also prove refractory on subsequent inoculation , as also do adult and old animals .
The nature of the tumour tissue inoculated is of great importance .
Where small doses give a maximum success , large doses may also do so , producing very much larger tumours in the same time ; on the other hand , the larger doses may be less successful than the small ones , this being explained by the extent to which the simultaneous absorption of tumour tissue hinders growth .
The absorption of tumour tissue is inversely proportionate to the number of cells growing in the graft .
Whereas a large dose of cells in the positive phase leads to large tumours and no immunity , a large dose of cells in the negative phase* yields very few tumours , permits of much absorption , and gives a high proportion of resistant animals .
There is much talk about the " virulent " and " avirulent " nature of different tumours , but the recognition of the fact that the " virulence " of the cells of a single tumour fluctuates between negative and positive phases will explain the contradictory statements of those who have succeeded and those who have failed to induce immunity by the injection of living tissue .
It also explains the unexpected positive results obtained in some curative experiments with immune sera and the absence of any effect in others .
Great care is necessary in accepting such positive results as " cures " artificially effected , unless spontaneous absorption has been excluded .
For example , two tumours out of 12 disappeared after one or two injections of rabbit serum .
Spontaneous absorption occurred in the same proportion of the control animals .
The injections had no effect on tumours of other series in which no spontaneous absorption took place .
The phenomena discussed in the preceding pages point clearly to the inter-* Of .
protocol , p. 178 , and footnote .
VOL. LXXIX.\#151 ; B. P Dr. Bashford , Mr. Murray , and Dr. Cramer .
[ Dec. 10 , action of two independent factors : ( 1 ) the variations from mouse to mouse of the susceptibility to ( or suitability for ) the growth of cancerous grafts ; and ( 2 ) the variations in the energy of growth of the tumour cells .
The first variable fluctuates between fairly wide limits in individual animals , but when large numbers of young mice are compared together , their resistance acts like a sieve , with unequal meshes , it is true , but , on the whole , of the same average fineness .
Spontaneous tumours vary considerably in the ease with which they can be propagated , i.e. , with which they can pass the sieve .
These differences have been regarded as depending on differences in " virulence .
" There is some evidence to show that the sporadic tumours fluctuate in energy of growth just as do the propagated tumours , * and the direct conclusion as to " virulence " from one primary transplantation may be upset when the same spontaneous tumour gives an opposite result , i.e. , is again transplanted after recurrence .
The term " virulence " is therefore unfortunate , and must be used with so much reservation that it would be better discarded altogether , j* The influence of the individuality , i.e. , the sum total of changes due to the past life of the organism , will be to make any mouse different from all others , and these differences will increase the longer the animal lives .
The difficulty of obtaining success in the primary transplantation of spontaneous tumours would be accounted for by supposing that the new animals provide an environment to the cancer cells so strange , that they cannot survive the interruption to their nutrition .
Their failure to grow does not necessarily imply that they would fail to proliferate in their new hosts if the conditions to which they had been accustomed could be immediately supplied in the experiment .
Cells which have lived and become accustomed to the body fluids of one mouse for , say , two years , may easily die or fail to adapt themselves when transferred to the bodies of new animals .
The frequency , in our experience , of large metastases in animals spontaneously affected , is in marked contrast to the difficulties in obtaining growth in normal animals , and harmonises well with this view .
What has been said of the differences in transplantability between spontaneous tumours appears to hold also with reference to separate strains of propagated tumours .
If the resistance of the mice be made the criterion for the energy of growth of sporadic tumours , the same standard is equally * Vide 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 78 , 1906 , p. 220 .
Graphic record of transplantation of a sporadic tumour ( XIX ) which recurred three times after partial excision .
+ Vide 1 Sci. Report II , ' Part 2 , p. 40 ; Ehrlich , ' Berl .
Klin .
Woch .
, ' No. 28,1905 , where he also proposes " energy of growth " as an alternative .
1906 .
] Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
applicable to the continued propagation of a single tumour .
It is impossible to imagine that the differences brought out by our experiments on the fluctuations in energy of growth are due entirely to variable susceptibility of the animals .
The simultaneous appearance of numerous spontaneous absorptions , and associated therewith the rapid diminution in the percentage of success in parallel experiments , * can only be referred to fluctuations in the energy of growth of the parenchyma cells .
Any other explanation , and especially an explanation by assuming increased resistance of the animals , introduces an arbitrary assumption which further complicates the conceptions .
The resistance of the animals can be altered , and this change has been described as an active immunity .
We shall continue to speak of resistance or refractoriness .
The absorption of tumours which have grown for a time undoubtedly calls forth this alteration in a high degree .
The absorption of inoculated material without obvious tumour formation has similar consequences .
Increased resistance results when blood injected subcutaneously is absorbed .
The refractory condition induced in this way is not so perfect as that following the absorption of tumour material .
It is , however , perfectly definite , and removes any cogency which might attach to the argument that the induction of a refractory condition by absorption of growing tumour or living tumour cells indicates the existence of a hypothetical cancer virus .
The evidence we have obtained that the blood of other animals is unable to induce such an alteration in mice , points to the same conclusion .
The absorption of the tumours of animals of alien species when inoculated into mice is likewise devoid of effect .
All these actions are curiously limited to the production of an insusceptibility to subsequent transplantation .
We have not been able to induce such an alteration in animals with growing inoculated tumours that they should become unsuitable for growth to continue once it has started .
It would appear that the negative phase in growth of the tumour cells plays the principal role when spontaneous absorption occurs , , the fall in the energy of growth and the resistance of the mouse together contributing to the final absorption .
Once the cellular graft has been vascularised it is in a much stronger position with reference to conditions which may be unfavourable to it , than is a graft in the days immediately following transplantation .
This is much more vulnerable .
The biological reactions described in this paper are effective by means of the body fluids .
They are analogous to those that are now well known as * ' Roy .
Soc Proc. , ' B , vol. 78 , 1906 .
Graphic record on p. 206 , and protocol , p. 209 .
186 Resistance of Mice to the Growth of Cancer .
specific haemolytic , cytolytic , and precipitin reactions .
As pointed out in Second Scientific Report , 1905 , pp. 32\#151 ; 33 , they are of far greater delicacy , and have only been revealed* by using living cells as indicators .
The experiments recorded in this paper give further evidence of the great delicacy and the very narrow range of variations in the soil furnished by the living animal , within which growth can proceed or is inhibited .
Growth has only been hindered by the intervention of mouse tumour or normal mouse tissue , to an infinitesimal degree by the normal tissues of the rat , and not at all by those of less nearly-related animals .
We therefore feel justified in concluding that these reactions are parallel to those others whereby blood relationship has been established ( Uhlenhuth ) .
When we attempt to formulate an explanation of the nature and mechanism of the changes leading to inhibition of growth , it must be clearly kept in mind that the evidence is almost entirely in the direction of showing an alteration in animals whereby they are unsuitable for or inimical to the establishment of grafts .
There is no satisfactory evidence of an induced action on growing vascularised tumours , but only one against newly-introduced grafts .
Spontaneous absorption , depending largely on alterations from the side of the parenchyma , is sufficiently frequent to enforce caution in assuming an artificial alteration in the resistance of animals already carrying growing tumours .
Complete absorption is necessary to induce absolute refractoriness to subsequent inoculation .
Hence the action of various procedures in inhibiting the growth of grafts is not necessarily or even probably due to a direct action on the parenchyma cells .
The connective tissue reaction , which a cancerous graft elicits , is taken advantage of by the cancer cells and acquires characters specific for each sporadic tumour .
It is immaterial whether this reaction is protective on the host 's part , and only not effective because the slight differences between the tumour cells and normal mouse tissues* do not sufficiently stimulate the protective process .
The necessity which exists on the part of the cancer cells for this reaction if they are to continue to grow , renders it possible that a refractory condition may indeed not have anything to do with an action against the cancer cells , but , on the contrary , be due to an alteration of the connective tissue of the host which hinders it from supplying the necessary connective tissue reaction .
The possibility must also be entertained that the alteration is directed against the chemotactic influence which may be presumed to be exerted by the cancer cells on the connective tissue of the host .
Our own experiments have not yet given satisfactory direct evidence of an * Once the tumour cells are dead they excite an energetic phagocytosis .
Cf .
figs. 43\#151 ; 48 , 4 Second Scientific Report , ' Part 2 , 1905 .
Combining Properties of the Opsonin of an Immune Serum .
187 anti-toxic or anti-cellular action , but we are far from denying the possibility that such an action may be obtained .
The phagocytosis of formed cellular elements plays an important rdle in inducing resistance ; serum is impotent to produce resistance , blood corpuscles do so .
The energetic phagocytosis which accompanies the spontaneous absorption of transplanted tumours , and which occurs in absorption after exposure to radium , speaks strongly for the conclusion that the processes are the same in kind when blood or tumour cells , being absorbed , produce resistance .
But we are as yet unable to determine the extent to which agencies directed against the tumour cells themselves may assist in determining their early death in protected animals .
Other experiments still in progress may be expected to clear up the relative importance of the parts played by the hypothetical inhibition of the specific stroma reaction , or of an equally hypothetical direct lethal action on the tumour cells .
On the Combining Properties of the Opsonin of an Immune Serum By Robert Muir , M.D. , Professor of Pathology , University of Glasgow , and W. B. M. Martin , M.B. , Carnegie Research Scholar .
( Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received January 18 , \#151 ; Read February 7 , 1907 .
) In a recent publication f we have studied the combining properties of the thermolabile opsonins of normal sera , and have shown that various substances or combinations of substances which absorb serum complements also absorb the opsonins in question .
Of special interest is the fact that red corpuscles , and also heated normal sera , which by themselves have no appreciable effect either on complements or on opsonins , absorb or fix both of these bodies when combined with their corresponding anti-substances , immune-bodies and precipitins respectively .
Since the time of this publication we have extended our experiments , and have always obtained the same result\#151 ; the opsonin is always fixed when the complement is fixed .
Using the term complement in the bio-chemical sense , we have said that the normal thermolabile opsonins belong to the group of complements .
And we have also * Towards the expenses of this research a grant was received from the Carnegie Trustees , for which we have pleasure in recording our indebtedness .
+ Muir and Martin , ' Brit. Med. Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 2 , p. 1783 .
VOL. LXXIX.-B .
Q

