II .
" On some New Derivatives of Acetone .
" By MtAXWELL SIMPSON , M.D. , F.R.S. Received April 18 , 1868 .
The compounds which form the subject of the present paper came accidentally under my notice whilst I was engaged in an unsuccessful attempt to form leucic acid by a new synthesis .
By saturating a mixture of acetone and absolute alcohol with dry hydrochloric acid gas , I had hoped to form a body having the composition C5 It OC1-C3 H6 O+ C2 IE O+ HIC =0 5 I1 OCl + H20 , and that this , when treated successivelywith cyanide of potassium and caustic potash , would have yielded the desired acid according to the following equations : C , HliOCl + KCy =C0 HI , , OCy + KCI , and C HI , OCy +K}+ ifI }o 41 K03 + 113 C , K,1Oy+ t } o0+ } o=C0 , I , KO , +Ni3 .
By saturating the above mixture with hydrochloric acid , I obtained , it is true , a large quantity of a chlorinated oil ; but I could not ascertain whether it was the compound I expected or not , as I found it impossible to render it sufficiently pure for analysis .
I therefore subjected it directly ( having simply washed it with a dilute solution of carbonate of soda ) to the action of the before-mentioned , reagents* .
The results were altogether unexpected .
I have since ascertained that the chlorinated oil can be obtained without the intervention of alcohol .
I will now give a detailed accountof my experiments .
Dry hydrochloric acid gas was passed to saturation into a quantity of pure acetone contained in a glass vessel surrounded with cold water .
The product was set aside for ten or twelve days , and then well washed with a dilute solution of carbonate of soda .
Equal weights of the oil thus formed and of pure cyanide of potassium were then introduced into a glass balloon together with a large quantity of alcohol .
The balloon was attached to a reversed Liebig 's condenser , and subjected for about twelve hours to the temperature of a water-bath .
At the expiration of this time its contents were , when quite cold , filtered , and the precipitate well washed with cold alcohol , and then with cold distilled water till the wash-water ceased to give a precipitate with nitrate of silver .
A white powder was thus obtained which was insoluble in cold water and in cold alcohol .
Boiling alcohol , however , dissolved it to a small extent , from which it crystallized on cooling in beautiful shining plates like naphthaline .
These sublime at a high temperature ( about 300 ?
C. ) , apparently without decomposition .
It is a neutral body and contains nitrogen .
It does not evolve ammonia when heated with an alcoholic solution of caustic potash .
It is decomposed by nitrous acid , with the production of a compound having acid properties .
The composition of this body I hope to be able to give in a future communication .
I will now turn to the alcoholic solution filtered from the neutral body I have just described .
This I introduced into a balloon together with some sticks of caustic potash .
The balloon was then attached to a reversed Liebig 's condenser , and exposed to the temperature of a water-bath till ammonia had ceased to be evolved .
When this was observed , the alcohol was distilled off and the residue dissolved in water .
The solution was then neutralized with hydrochloric acid , filtered , evaporated considerably , and then treated with a large excess of the same acid .
After standing for some time it became a mass of crystals .
These were thrown upon a filter and washed with cold distilled water till the filtrate ceased to give a precipitate with nitrate of silver .
The powder obtained in this way was readily purified by crystallizing from hot alcohol , and then from boiling water .
From the latter solvent it separates in brilliant colourless prismatic needles , sometimes upwards of an inch in length .
Dried at 100 ?
C. , these gave the following numbers on analysis , which accord sufficiently well with the formula C , H3 NO3 : Theory .
Per cent. I. IT .
III .
IV .
C8 ... .
96 56-14 56-28 56-79 H113 ... .
13 7-60 7-97 8-21 N ... .
14 8'19 ... .
832 8-23 03 ... 48 28-07 171 100-00 I have also prepared and analyzed the silver-salt of this acid .
The results I obtained confirmed the above formula .
Experiment .
Theory .
Per cent. I. II .
Mfetallic silver 1 38'84 38'98 38'70 ( C8 H2AgNO ) }38'84 3898 38.70 .
The salt was obtained in beautiful mother-of-pearl plates by boiling a solution of the acid with an excess of freshly prepared oxide of silver .
It is very soluble in water , and is not much affected by light .
It does not suffer decomposition when dried at 100 ?
C. The new compound has an acid reaction , and displaces carbonic acid from the soluble carbonates .
It is insoluble in cold , pretty soluble in hot water and in cold alcohol , and sparingly soluble in ether .
It melts at 171 ?
C. The nitrogen appears to be retained with unusual force within the molecule of the new acid .
It refuses to give it up in the form of ammonia when subjected to the action of an alcoholic solution of potash , a fact we have already learned from the manner of its formation .
Neither can it be made to yield it up by exposing it to the action of nitrous gas .
I have tried this gas upon a solution of the acid both in water and nitric acid .
It dissolves in large quantity in strong hydrochloric acid , and , on standing , crystallizes out unaltered , not combining chemically with that body .
The salts of thfs acid are , as a general rule , very soluble in water .
The neutralized acid yields no precipitate with nitrate of silver , corrosive sublimate , or chloride of barium .
It renders a solution of acetate of lead but slightly turbid , and communicates a red colour to perchloride of iron without precipitating it .
The soda-salt is very soluble and does not crystallize well .
It is prepared by neutralizing the acid with carbonate of soda .
One molecule of the acid , assuming it to have the composition C , I11 , NO , , I found required exactly one molecule of pure and recently ignited carbonate of soda for complete neutralization .
This experiment , and the composition of the silver-salt , render it highly probable that the acid is monobasic .
A The mercury-salt crystallizes in beautiful pearly plates .
It is prepared by boiling a solution of the acid with freshly precipitated oxide of mercury .
It is a very soluble salt .
* The salt which served for this analysis was made from a freshly prepared batch of the acid .
366 [ May 14 , When acetone is saturated with hydrochloric acid , several condensed compounds are formed , which remain in union with the acid .
The question now arises , which of these compounds generate the acid we have just been studying ?
and which the neutral body ?
In the hope of determining this point , I prepared the two most important of these compounds in a state of purity , namely oxide of mesityle and phoron , and saturated them with hydrochloric acid gas .
After the lapse of twelve hours the two saturated bodies were well washed with water , and treated separately with cyanide of potassium and caustic potash in the manner I have just described .
The results were decisive .
The mesityle compound yielded the acid , and the phoron compound the neutral body .
The following equations will explain the formation of the acid : CG O+ 2 HC1 =C , H 12 OC12 , C0 H12 C012+ 2KCy= C , H12 OCy2 +2 KCl , and CG H1 , OCy+ K}+OJ OC8 = 12 KNO3+NII , .
Potash-salt of new acid .
It will be observed that only one of the cyanogen atoms is transformed into C OOK .
The foregoing derivatives of acetone are , I think , in many respects very remarkable bodies .
I therefore propose to submit them to a careful study .
I propose also to ascertain whether or not the true aldehydes yield analogous bodies when treated in a similar manner .

