Prof. J. C. Malet .
On a Class of Invariants .
But this equation is satisfied by U=0 , HU=0 ; consequently the equations aU + 6/ 3HU=0 , H(\#171 ; U-f6/ 3HU ) =0 , are both satisfied by the relations U=0 , HU=0 .
Hence the theorem given in the text .
VI .
" On a Class of Invariants .
" By John C. Malet , M.A. , Professor of Mathematics , Queen 's College , Cork .
Communicated by Professor Cayley , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is concerned with two kinds of functions of the coefficients of Linear Differential Equations , which have certain invariant properties .
In the first part of the paper it is shown that every Linear Differential Equation possesses a certain number of functions of the coefficients which are unaltered by changing the dependent variable to yu where u is any given function of x , the independent variable .
These functions bear remarkable analogies to functions of the differences of the roots of ordinary algebraic equations , and many problems , provided they involve only the I'atios of the solutions of the differential equation , may be solved in terms of them ; for example , the condition that two solutions y1 and y2 of a linear differential equation of the third order should be connected by the relation y-i=y^x is expressed in terms of two such functions of the coefficients of the equation .
This problem is analogous to that of finding the discriminant of an algebraic binary cubic .
The second part of the paper is concerning functions of the coefficients of Linear Differential Equations which are unaltered by change of the independent variable , and the theory of these functions is applied to the solutions of problems involving only relations among the solutions of the equation without the independent variable .
In this part of the paper it is shown how to form the condition that the three solutions i/ j , y2 , y3 of a linear differential equation of the third order should be connected by the relation which relation , involving only ratios of the solutions , and not containing the independent variable , can be expressed in terms of either class of the functions of the coefficients considered in the paper ; these two methods of writing the condition are accordingly given .
VOIi .
XXXIII .
Q

