215 The Structure and Physiological Significance of the Root-nodules of Myrica gale .
By W. B. Bottomley , M.A. , Professor of Botany in King 's College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. J. Reynolds Green , F.R.S. Received June 21 , \#151 ; Read June 29 , 1911 .
) The peculiar nodule formations on the roots of Myrica gale were first described and figured by Brunchorst* in 1886 , who stated that they were caused by an inhabiting fungus with septate hyphse and terminal spores .
Mollerf in 1890 placed this fungus in the group Prankia , naming it Frankia Brunchorstii , and considered it to be closely related to a similar fungus in Alder nodules .
In 1902 Shibata* stated that the fungus is found exclusively in a peripheral sub-cork layer of tissue , one to three cells thick , and because of its peculiar ray-branching and club-shaped spores , it belongs to the group Actinomyces .
PekloS in 1910 , working on greenhouse-grown plants , supported Shibata 's view .
Roots of Myrica gale were obtained for this investigation from plants growing wild in Wales , Ireland , and the North of England , and from cultivated plants growing in the Chelsea Physic Gardens .
In all cases the roots were found to possess nodules of varying size .
The young nodules are from 2\#151 ; 3 mm. long and 0*8\#151 ; 1 mm. broad , but these by branching form " clusters , " sometimes as large as a nutmeg , and surrounded by peculiar rootlets which grow out through the end of each nodule or branch .
The branching is associated with the outgrowth of lateral roots , and is not due to dichotomy of the apical meristem of the root as is the case in the nodules of Cycas , Alder , and Elaeagnus .
A transverse section of the tubercle shows a central tetrarch vascular cylinder similar to that of a normal root , and indicates that the tubercle itself is a modified root .
The steal is surrounded by an endodermis characterised by neither radial dot nor thickened walls , but by the cells being filled with oil drops .
Outside the endodermis are several layers of cortical cells covered on the outside with a definite small-celled cork layer .
In mature nodules the cortical tissue is characterised by the presence of ( 1 ) somewhat enlarged cells filled with bacteria ; ( 2 ) cells filled with oil drops .
By means of Kiskalt 's amyl Gram stain the bacteria can be seen in situ in the enlarged cells as small rods .
Towards the apex of the nodule * J. Brunchorst , 4 Unters .
aus dem Bot. Inst. , Tubingen , ' 1886 , vol. 2 .
+ H. Moller , 4 Ber .
d. Deutsch .
bot .
Ges .
, ' 1890 , vol. 8 .
X K. Shibata , 4 Jahrb .
f. Wiss .
Bot. , ' 1902 , vol. 37 .
S J. Peklo , 'Cent .
f. Bakt .
, ' 1910 , ( 2 ) , vol. 27 .
VOL. LXXX1V.\#151 ; B. S 216 Significance of the Root-nodules Myrica gale .
zooglea threads of bacteria are seen passing from cell to cell , comparable with the " infection threads " first seen by Marshall Ward in leguminous nodules .
The nodules arise as modifications of normal lateral roots .
The cortical cells of a young root , before its emergence from the main root , become infected by bacteria .
The normal growth of the root is thereby checked , but by division and growth of the cells containing the bacteria , the characteristic nodule with its tetrarch steal is formed .
When the nodule has reached its full size , the end of the steal , surrounded by a few cortical cells , grows out from the apex of the nodule and forms a thin rootlet .
Around this three branches or nodules ( occasionally only two ) arise endogenously as outgrowths from the cells surrounding the steal , repeating exactly the growth and structure of the primary nodule .
By repeated branching in this manner the peculiar " cluster " nodules are formed .
No fungal hyphae were observed in any of the young nodules examined , but " infection threads " containing bacteria were numerous , and it was evident that the formation of the nodules is caused by the action of the infecting bacteria .
Pure cultures of the bacteria from the cortical cells of the nodule were made .
These on examination were found to be identical in structure and growth with the organism Pseudomoims radicicola found in leguminous nodules .
They gave the characteristic staining reaction with aniline gentian violet and amyl alcohol , and formed colonies of oval shape on maltose agar .
Cultures of the bacteria were made in flasks with a solution containing 1 grin , maltose , 0'5 grm. potassium phosphate , 0*02 grm. magnesium sulphate in 100 c.c. water .
After incubation for seven days at 25 ' C. nitrogen determinations of the culture solution gave the following results Control flask ... ... ... ... .
0*53 mgrm .
N per 100 c.c. Inoculated flask ... ... ... .
2*58 " " showing a fixation of nitrogen of 2'05 mgrm .
Young Myrica plants were obtained from Heysham Moss , some having nodules on their roots , others having none .
Both kinds were planted out in a greenhouse in pots containing soil deficient in nitrogen .
The plants without nodules did not thrive , and soon died , whilst those possessing nodules flourished and made a good growth .
It is evident from these experiments that the root nodules of Myrica are concerned with nitrogen assimilation , and that to the four families of non-leguminous plants\#151 ; Alder , Elseagnus , Cycas , and Podocarpus\#151 ; known to possess the power of nitrogen fixation by means of root-nodules , a fifth\#151 ; Myrica\#151 ; must now be added .

