] 42 On Excitation of the Floor the 4 .
[ June 18 , carrying out this research ; and also to Professor Tait for allowing us the use of his laboratory and his valuable apparatus , without which these results could not have been obtained .
VIII .
" On the Changes evoked in the Circulation and Respiration by Electrical Excitation of the Floor of the 4th Ventricle .
" By W. G. Spencer , M.S. , Assistant-Surgeon to the Westminster Hospital .
Communicated by Professor Horsley , F.R.S. Received June 15 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the research was to connect more closely clinical signs with pathological changes in the medulla by localising in the floor of the 4th ventricle the " centres " which influence the circulation and resp'ration .
The author commences his paper with a full account of the work of previous observers upon the medulla in relation to the circulation and respiration .
The research differs from preceding ones in the use of the electric current to excite without injury the floor of the ventricle , in avoiding puncture and incision of the medulla , in employing complete anaesthesia with ether without at the same time impeding respiration .
The floor of the 4th ventricle was accurately measured in each experiment , so that the distance from the calamus scriptorius and from the middle line of each point was known before it was excited .
The experiments were performed on cats , dogs , and monkeys , the records of the changes which took place being divided into those affecting respiration , the rate of the heart , and the blood-pressure respectively .
By adding together the results obtained for each point in all the experiments on animals of the same species , conclusions have been arrived at for each species , and a comparison is then made of the three species of animals .
The conclusions drawn from the experiments , aided by the facts detailed in the historical retrospect , are as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Inspiration.\#151 ; The part of the floor of the 4th ventricle which , when excited , caused an increase in the normal inspiratory impulses descending to the thorax lies along the middle line , extending for 2 mm. on either side .
( 2 .
) Expiration.\#151 ; The part of the floor of the 4th ventricle which , when excited , caused an increase in the normal expiratory impulses descending to the thorax lies along the lateral part of the ventricle , 2 to 3 mm. from the middle line .
i 1891 .
] Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
143 ( 3 .
) Slowing of the Respiratory Rhythm.\#151 ; The area which , when excited , caused slowing of the respiratory rhythm lies over the continuation of the postero-median column , as it separates from the column of the opposite side , and the part of the floor of the ventricle close to the inner border of the column .
The central point of this small area lies between 1 and 2 mm. from the calamus , and between 2 and 3 mm. from the middle line .
Cardio-inhibition.\#151 ; Whilst cardio-inhibition may be produced all over the floor of the 4th ventricle , as well as just behind the calamus , yet it is best marked both in the frequency of occurrence and in the amount of slowing over the posterior third of the 4th ventricle , and over the inner margin of the continuation forwards of the posteromedian column .
Blood-pressure .
( 1 ) Fall.\#151 ; The chief depressor area is in the hinder part of the floor , between 1 and 4 mm. in front of the calamus .
( 2 ) Rise ( cat only).\#151 ; A rise was produced most frequently and most largely from 4 mm. from the calamus forwards to the anterior end of the ventricle .
These conclusions are exhibited graphically by maps of the ventricle , shaded in various degrees to indicate the intensity of the result ; and a number of tracings are appended as illustrations of the actual changes which were produced by excitation .
The author concludes with a summary of some clinical applications of this research , as well as of the previous one on " Intracranial Pressure , " which forms the subject of a paper in this year 's ' Phil. Trans. ' by the author and Mr. Horsley .
IX .
" Contributions to the Chemistry of* Chlorophyll .
No. IV .
" By Edw. Schunck , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is a continuation of the previous ones on the same subject .
After describing the action of caustic alkali in a state of fusion on phyllocyanin and the products thereby formed , the author proceeds to give an account of phylloxanthin , the substance formed along with phyllocyanin by the action of acids on chlorophyll .
This is followed by a description of the change- which chlorophyll undergoes by the action of alkalis , and of the chief product thereby formed , which the author names alkachlorophyll .

