On the ultimate distribution of the Air-passages , and the formation of the Aircells of the Lungs .
By WILLIAM ADDISON , Esq. , F.L.S. , Member of the Royal College of Surgeons , and of the Council of the Worcestershire Natural History Society .
Communicated by ROBERT B. TODD , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 3 , -Read April 7 , 1842 .
THE opinions of anatomists have been much divided as to the manner in which the bronchial tubes terminate ; whether the cells composing a lobule of the lungs have free communication with each other , or whether each cell , without any such cornmunication , receives the inspired air by a single bronchial ramification only .
The latter opinion , derived from the results of REISSEISSEN'S investigations , prevails .
MALPIGHI was the first to describe the air-vesicles of the lungs , and the air-tubes ending in them* .
HELVETIUS attempted to prove that these Malpighian vesicles were nothing more than common cellular tissue , diffused without order through the lungs , and that t}he air proceeding thither through the minute air-tubes , not only passes easily from cell to cell , but likewise from the lobules into their interstices , and finally diffuses itself through the whole lung .
HALLER adopted the opinions of HELVETIUS .
" The vesicles of the lungs , " he says , " do not receive the air by a single orifice from the windpipe as into an oval grape or phial , but the air exhaling from the least branches freely spreads from any one part of the lungs into all the rest , and returns again in like manner ; neither is the cellular fabric of the intervals between the lobules shut up from the vesicles of the lungs , nor are the lesser lobes surrounded by any peculiar membranet .
" REISSEISSEN , in his work De Fabrica Pulmonum , discourses of the labours of his predecessors , and refers particularly to the opinions entertained by HELVETIUS and HALLER ; and'then , aided in his researches by a microscope , and by various methods of inflation and injection , he attempts to controvert them , and to prove that the cells in each lobular subdivision have no communication with those of the adjoining ones , in the manner of cellular tissue .
" The air-cells , " he says , " are the culs de sac terminations of the air-tubes , and are perfectly independent of one another+ " and MAJENDIE , however , describe the air-cells as freely communicating with each other , in the interior of each lobule ; but I am not aware that either of these authors has given any detailed or minute description of the aeriferous structure of the lung* .
Having been engaged in investigating by the microscope the seat and nature of tubercles in the lungs , and having examined the structure , recent and dry , in every possible way I could devise , I nevertheless always failed to discover any tubes ending in culs de sac ; on the contrary , I always saw air-cells communicating with each other in every section I made .
I therefore repeated several of REISSEISSEN'S experiments , and instituted others , from which I derived ample evidence that the bronchial tubes , after dividing into a multitude of minute branches which take their course in the cellular interstices of the lobules , terminate in their interior in branched air-passages , and freely communicating air-cells .
In a foetal lung the bronchial ramifications in the interior of a lobule , or the intralobular ramificationsf , have a regular branched arrangement , subdividing in all directions , somewhat dichotomously , and terminating at the boundary of the lobule in closed extremities .
It is not , however , at the boundary of the lobule only that these closed extremities or culs de sac terminations of the intralobular bronchial ramifications are placed , many of them may be seen in the interior of a lobule , lying against and pressing upon the sides of the adjoining branches ( a ) , Plate XII .
fig. 8 .
It is important to remark , that there are no anastomoses to be seen between the intralobular bronchial branches ; each branch pursues its own independent course , until it terminates in a closed extremity .
Anatomical writers generally use the terms air-vesicles and air-cells synonymously , so that they are convertible terms ; but strictly speaking , an air-vesicle is an airbubble , and may exist either in or out of a pulmonary air-cell .
It is not necessary to the existence of an air-bubble , that it should be contained in a membranous envelope ; hundreds of them may not only exist , but in any slightly viscous liquid may even press against each other , without losing their figure or globular isolation .
In a foetal lung neither air-bubbles nor air-cells exist ; but when an animal respires , the entrance of the air into the lungs inflates all the lobules to twice or three times their foetal dimensions , and the intralobular bronchial ramifications experience a great and important change both in figure and character .
The delicate membrane composing them opposes an unequal degree of resistance to the pressure of the air , which is very considerable , and it is consequently distended into little globular inflations , forming , a series of communicating cells , which are immediately and perma* CRUVEILHIER'S Anatomy , by A. TWEEDIE , M.D. , F.R.S. , p. 552 .
MAJENDIE'S Lectures .
tI have adopted the appropriate and now universally received terms of Mr. KIERNAN , which exactly express a very necessary distinction between the bronchial ramifications in the cellular interstices of the lobules , which are always tubes , and those in the interior of the lobules , which are tubular only in the foetus .
158 nently occupied by air-bubbles , in the mass of which all trace of the symmetry of their branched arrangement is entirely lost or obscured .
The rounded inflations of one branch meeting on all sides those of the adjoining branches , are moulded by pressure into pentagonal or hexagonal forms , which are the figures of the air-cells , fig. 9 .
Branched passages , however , still exist , and form a communication between the cells ; but these passages are now neither tubular nor cylindrical .
It is therefore necessary to distinguish them , and I have called them LOBULAR PASSAGES , an appropriate term suggested to me by Dr. R. B. TODD .
The air-cells have not an indiscriminate and general intercomnmunication throughout the interior of a lobule .
I have before observed that there are no anastomoses between the intralobular bronchial ramifications ; hence the air-cells formed along thie branch ( b ) , fig. 8 , do not communicate with those in the branch ( c ) , except by means of their common opening into a larger branch at ( d ) , and so on for each branch respectively .
Experinment 1.-Take a very thin section of inflated and dried lung , and submit it to an examination by the microscope .
A great number of large and well-defined OVAL FORAMINA , ( a , a ) fig. 1 , with a sharp and delicate edge , will be seen thickly distributed among the cells .
Frequently three , four , or five of them ( b , b ) may be seen close together , and whichever way the section be made , they are equally numerous and conspicuous .
These foramina are evidently not portions of bronchial tubes , for they have no uniform cylindrical wall , which is necessary to constitute a tube .
By gently altering the focus of the miicroscope you may look down through the uppermost foramina into the interior of air-cells situated laterally below them , and several foramina and cells may thus be brought successively into view ( c , c ) .
These foramina are portions of the lobular passages , and if the section be taken from the surface of the lung , including the pleura , they are smaller , and placed at more equal distances from each other , than when made from the intetior of the organ , fig. 2 ; which is exactly the result that would accrue from a division of branched passages , in the former case ( fig. 2 .
) approaching their terminations , and in the latter ( fig. 1 .
) nearer the point whence the branches emanate .
Experiment 2.-I injected with mercury a small bronchiial tube in the lung of an Ox , leading towards the thin margin of the organ ; the metal appeared at the surface , forming a mass of minute globules .
Having made an incision in the interval between two lobules and inflated the cellular tissue , I was enabled carefully to dissect away the pleura , and I then observed through a lens that the globules were contained in delicate membranous sacs , forming rounded eminences projecting from the tissue .
I then separated several lobules from each other , and saw the mercury at the surface of every lobule , presenting rounded eminences similar to those observed at the surface of the lung .
On examining these rounded eminences or globules in the microscope , I perceived that the mercury Was not enclosed in a simple sac or cell , but in a divided or multilocular cavity .
Nor is it difficult to comprehend the character of these multilocular cells at the surface , when we conceive the nature of the structure of a lobule , consisting of numberless small branches of a ramified tube , which the atmosphere at birth distends into cells .
The extremities of these branches , evolving or shooting forth under the pressure of the air , meet with resistance and support from the adjoining lobules , and being as it were thrown back upon themselves , form the multilocular cavities or cells I have described ( b , c ' ) fig. 8 .
WAGNER'S figure represents these terminal cells only* .
Experiment 3.-Having inflated a recent lung , I cut off a small portion , and examined it as an opake object by the microscope ; I found all the oval forainina occupied by large air-bubbles , other bubbles of various sizes occupying the surrounding cells .
I then placed a very small piece between two slips of glass , which were so arranged under the microscope that I could gently and gradually press them together , still keeping the object ( now viewed transparent ) in focus .
I then observed the airbubbles changing their situation , not by moving equably through any tube or cylindrical passage , but by sudden starts from cell to cell .
I frequently saw a large bubble of air become compressed for a rmoment in passing from one cell to anotfer , and sometimes divide into two smaller bubbles , one of which passed on to another cell , the other retiring to the spot from which a momentary pressure had removed it .
I have frequently watched a bubble of air pass through three or four cells in succession , the communication between them not being through a tubular passage , but by limited openings ( oval foramina ) leading from cell to cell .
It does occasionally happen that a small portion of bronchial tube may be included in the object thus submitted to examination , and if so , when the glasses are pressed together , the air-bubbles glide easily and readily through it .
The bubbles of air formed in the lungs are of all dimensions , some large , some small , and others so minute as not to measure more than 1IoJoth or -s8oth of an inch in diameter ; hence three , four or more may occupy a single cell , and the heterogeneous adhesion between them and the tissue is so strong , that it is impossible to expel all of them by pressure .
They may , however , be removed from very thin sections of recent lung by two or three days ' maceration in water , and the pulmonary network is by this means rendered very distinct ' ; and if such sections be carefully examined by a lens , lobular passages may be seen partially laid open , disclosing a series of communicating cells ( a , a , b , fig. 3 .
) .
Experiment 4.-If the lungs of a Rabbit be allowed to macerate for two or three days , all the air-bubbles at the thin edge of the organ will be removed , and this portion assimilated to a foetal state .
Having prepared a lung in this way , I poured inereuiry into the trachea , and allowed the metal by its own weight to traverse the , air-tubes and passages ; it appeared at the surface of some of the lobules in the form of little globules ( a , fig. 4 .
) , in others as beaded or nodulated branches ( b. ) .
By press* Icones Physiologice , tab .
xv .
fig. 8 , 1839 .
160 ing the mercury onward , these beaded branches became more and more numerous , smaller ones proceeding not only from the extremities of those first seen , but shooting out from them laterally in all directions ; by continuing a little gentle pressure , all symmetrical arrangement was lost in a mass of minute globules ( c ) .
These beaded branches evidently combine the character both of cells and passages ; each bead or globular inflation is an air-cell , communicating with others on either side in such manner as to form branched passages * .
If the pleura be stripped off from the lung of a foetal Calf , the lobules may be readily separated from each other ; and their subdivisions are carlied to a great extent .
I have measured several from -o to ~-1th of an inch only .
The smallness of the ultimate lobular subdivisions may also be seen by removing a small strip from the thin margin of a lung , and slightly compressing it between two slips of glass , figs. 5 and 6 .
The lobules have an irregular polygonal figure of from four to six sides : after respiration the sides are flatter , and the angles sharpened by the pressure of the adjoining lobules .
Experiment 5.-I poured mercury into the lungs of a foetal Calf by the trachea , and allowed it by its own weight to trickle down the bronchial tubes which were filled with the metal , and were very conspicuous at the thin margin of the organ .
I placed a portion of the injected thin margin of the lung between two plates of glass , and on using slight pressure , the mercury at the extremities of the injected branches was forced into still smaller nodulated branches , which divided and subdivided in an unvaried branched order , ( a ) figs. 5 and 6 ; by using a little more pressure their numbers increased , the symmetry of the branches being readily detected by the microscope ; but ultimately , by continuing the pressure , all symmetry was lost in a mass of minute globules ( a ) .
The same effects were produced by pressing the mercury in the bronchial tubes onward between the finger and thumlb without using the plates of glass .
With a good light and a power magnifying 120 times linear , the globules of mercury are seen to be enclosed in cellular cavities formed laterally on branched passages .
In the small branches the metal appears in round globules ; it is less globular in the larger branches , and a disposition to the formation of cells may be detected by the depressed lines seen on the column of mercur y in branches of still gireater magnitude .
I have in my possession a preparation , containing lobules from the thin Inargin of a foetal lung which were partially distended by air , sufficient to show the regular branched symmetry of the air-tubes to their ultimate terminations ; establishing a perfect analogy between them and the secreting tubes of glandular organs .
The air with which the tubes were partially distended has been absorbed by the fluid in which the preparation is preserved , and membranous septa are everywhere visible in their interior .
The pulmonary cells are evidently formed by the pressure of the air against the sides of the tubes in the intervals between these folds ( fig. 8 .
) .
A careful exatnination of the memnbranes of the air-cells by the microscope in a thin section of dried inflated lung will be sufficient to convince any one that they do not form round nor even rounded cells , but that they are perfectly flat membranous plates , circumscribing polyhedric spaces .
When healthy and recent they are exceedingly tough and elastic .
I have often found that the tissue of the lungs may be stretched to twice its dimensions without rupturing them .
They will bear the scrutiny of the highest powers of the microscope , and are characterized by several peculiar ovate bodies which form a part of their structure .
They are also marked by numerous delicate lines , which are , no doubt , uninjected vessels of the capillary network .
They possess an epithelium in the form of large round nucleated scales , and from one to fifteen ol more nuclei may be counted in a single scale .
A great many nuclei without any epithelium envelope may be seen upon them , but I have never satisfied myself that they possess the ciliated cylinder epithelium so abundant in the trachea and the bronchi .
The dimensions of the air-cells , as might be expected from the preceding details of their structure and formation , gradually increase with age , but in healthy woien they are always smaller than in healthy men at the same period of life .
rTaking the recent lung of a healthy man , aged forty-five , as the mean between the small cells of 162 youth and the large cells of old age , I found them varying from 2o-th to 5-oth of an inch ; the largest oval foramina were from -6-1th to 8-th of an inch , some were from -ith to T-loth of an inch , and there were others less .
In dried and inflated preparations , the cells and foramina being fully distended with air , measure more than when the preparations are fresh and recent .
On the other hand , in injected preparations , the vessels being distended , the cells and foramina measure less .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE .
PLATE XII .
Fig. 1 .
A thin section of dried and inflated lung , showing large oval foramina produced by dividing the lobular passages ; ( b , b ) several oval foramina close together , the section having passed very near to the point whence the passages branch off .
Subjacent cells and foramina are seen by looking down through the uppermost foramina ( c , c ) .
Fig. 2 .
Oval foramina seen in a section of inflated and dried lung made at the surface and including the pleura ; they are somewhat smaller , and placed at more equal distances from each other than in the preceding figure .
Fig. 3 .
A thin section of recent and macerated lung , slightly extended , showing sections of cells and lobular passages ; ( a , a , b ) a series of communicating cells .
Fig. 4 .
A small portion of the thin edge of a lung of a Rabbit injected partially with mercury , showing a mass of minute globules in a fully injected lobule ( a ) , and nodulated or beaded branches in others ( b ) .
The nodules being cells communicating with each other by lobular passages ; the branched symmetry is lost in a mass of globules at c. Figs. 5 and 6 .
Small sections from the thin margin of the lung of a foetal Calf , magnified about three diameters .
The lobules are compressed and spread out by pressure between two plates of glass .
Several bronchial tubes are filled with mercury ; they gradually assume a nodulated appearance , and at length in the interior of the lobules terminate in cells and lobular passages .
Fig. 7 .
A more magnified view of the branchings of the intralobular bronchial ramifications .
The mercury has been urged on by increased pressure , so as to fill a greater number of ramifications , which at ( a ) have become so numerous that their symmetry is lost in the multitude of globules .
Fig. 8 .
Intralobular bronchial ramifications , partially inflated and highly magnified .
( a ) .
Culs de sac terminations lying against the lateral inflations of adjoining branches .
( b , b , c ) .
The multilocular culs de sac at the surface of a lobule .
Fig. 9 .
Shows the cells formed upon the intralobular bronchial branches , with polyhedric figures formed by pressure .
Y2 163

