Proceedings .
November18 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , E.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
Dr. J. S. Haldane , Mr. George Murray , Professor H. Alleyne Nicholson , and Professor H. H. Turner were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The President reported that during the recess , at a Court held at Windsor on July 15,1897 , he , accompanied by Sir J. Evans , Treasurer ; Professor M. Poster , Secretary ; Professor A. W. Rucker , Secretary ; Professor R. B. Clifton , Sir W. Huggins , and Mr. W. T. Thisel-ton-Dyer , Vice-Presidents ; Sir J. D. Hooker , Lord Kelvin , and Sir G- .
G. Stokes , Past-Presidents , had the privilege of being admitted to the presence of the Throne and the honour of presenting to Her Gracious Majesty the loyal Address which had been approved by the Fellows at their meeting of May 20 , and that Her Majesty in accepting the Address made a gracious reply .
The Address and Royal Reply are as follows :\#151 ; " To the Queen 's Most Excellent Majesty .
" Mat it please tour Majestt !
" We , your loyal and dutiful subjects , the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London , humbly beg leave to offer to your Most Gracious Majesty , the beloved Patron of our Society , our respectful and sincere congratulations on the happy conclusion of the sixtieth year of your Most Gracious Majesty 's reign , a reign which has extended over a longer period than has that of any of your Majesty 's illustrious Predecessors .
Not in the number of years only .has your Majesty 's reign surpassed all others : it has also been j marked by unexampled prosperity and progress .
Conspicuous in I that progress , and an acknowledged cause of that prosperity , has I been the marvellous advancement during your Majesty 's reign of I that Natural Knowledge to promote which your Majesty 's illustrious | Predecessor , King Charles II , founded the Royal Society .
Your I humble and devoted servants , the Fellows of the Royal Society , feel I that they , in common with all men of science , have especial reason 1 to rejoice in the long continuance of your Majesty 's beneficent rule .
VOL. lxii .
h Proceedings .
" We beg your Majesty graciously to receive this token of the loyal devotion which the men of science of this country feel towards their Sovereign Lady the Queen .
" And we shall ever pray that your Most Gracious Majesty may be spared for many years to reign over your dutiful and loving people .
" Her Majesty 's Reply .
" I thank you for your loyal and dutiful Address .
I am much gratified by the attachment which your ancient and learned Society expresses to My Throne and Person .
I am fully sensible how far the labours and ingenuity of men of science , whom you worthily represent , have advanced the industrial and social prosperity of My people , and have tended alike to their good and refinement , and I confidently expect the same excellent fruit in years to come from the indefatigable and reverent Investigation of Nature for the promotion of which the Royal Society was founded .
" In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
Mr. Horace Brown , Sir Douglas Galton , and Dr. T. E. Thorpe were by ballot elected Auditor 's of the Treasurer 's accounts on the part of the Society .
The Secretary read the following list of Papers received since the last meeting and published in accordance with the Standing Orders:\#151 ; Professor J. A. Fleming and Professor J. Dewar .
Further Observations on the Dielectric Constants of Frozen Electrolytes at and above the Temperature of Liquid Air .
Professor J. Dewar and Professor J. A. Fleming .
On the Dielectric Constants of Certain Organic Bodies at and below the Temperature of Liquid Air .
Professor J. Dewar and Professor J. A. Fleming .
On the Dielectric Constants of Metallic Oxides dissolved or suspended in Ice cooled to the Temperature of Liquid Air .
Professor Rubert Boyce and Professor W. A. Herdman .
On a Green Leucocytosis in Oysters associated with the Presence of Copper in the Leucocytes .
Charles S. Tomes .
On the Development of Marsupial and other Tubular Enamels , with Notes upon the Development of Enamel in general .

