2 .
" On the PELOROSAURUS ; an undescribed gigantic terrestrial reptile , whose remains are associated with those of the Iguanodon and other Saurians , in the Strata of Tilgate Forest .
" By Gideon Algernon Mantell , Esq. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Vice-President of the Geological Society , &amp;c. The author had for a long while entertained the idea , that among the remains of colossal reptiles obtained from the Wealden strata , there were indications of several genera of terrestrial saurians , besides those established by himself and other geologists .
The recent discovery of an enormous arm-bone , or humerus , of an undescribed reptile of the crocodilian type , in a quarry of Tilgate Forest in Sussex , where Dr. Mantell had many years since collected numerous teeth and bones of the Iguanodon , Hylaeosaurus , &amp;c. , and some remarkable vertebrae not referable to known genera , induced himl to embody in the present communication the facts which his late researches have brought to light The humerus above-mentioned was found imbedded in sandstone , by Mr. Peter Fuller of Lewes , at about 20 feet below the surface ; it presents the usual mineralized condition of the fossil bones from the arenaceous strata of the Wealden .
It is four and a half feet in length , and the circumference of its distal extremity is 32 inches !
It has a medullary cavity 3 inches in diameter , which at once separates it from the Cetiosaurus and other supposed marine saurians , while its form and proportions distinguish it from the humerus of the Iguanodon , Hfyleosaurus , and Megalosaurus .
It approaches most nearly to the Crocodilians , but possesses characters distinct from any known fossil genus .
Its size is stupendous , far surpassing that of the corresponding bone even of the gigantic Iguanodon ; and the name of Pelorosaurus ( from rreXwp pelor , monster ) is therefore proposed for the genus , with the specific term Conybeari , in honour of the palweontological labours of the Dean of Llandaff .
No bones have been found in such contiguity with this humerus , as to render it certain that they belonged to the same gigantic reptile ; but several very large caudal vertebre of peculiar characters , collected from the same quarry , are probably referable to the Pelorosaurus ; these , together with some distal caudals which belong to the same type , are figured and described by the author .
Certain femora and other bones from the oolite of Oxfordshire , in the collection of the Dean of Westminster , at Oxford , are mentioned as possessing characters more allied to those of the Pelorosaurus , or to some unknown terrestrial saurian , than to the Cetiosaurus , with which they have been confounded .
As to the magnitude of the animal to which the humerus belonged , Dr. Mantell , while disclaiming the idea of arriving at any certain conclusions from a single bone , states that in a Gavial 18 feet long , the humerus is 1 foot in length ; i. e. one-eighteenth part of the length of the animal , from the end of the muzzle to the tip of the tail .
According to these admeasurements the Pelorosaurus would be 81 feet long , and its body 20 feet in circumference .
But if we assume the length and number of the vertebrma as the scale , we should have a reptile of relatively abbreviated proporti(ns ; even in this case , however , the original creature would far surpass in magnitude the most colossal of reptilian forms .
In conclusion , Dr. Mantell comments on the probable physical conditions of the countries inhabited by the terrestrial reptiles of the secondary ages of geology .
These highly-organized colossal land saurians appear to have occupied the same position in those ancient faunas as the large mammalia in those of modern times .
The trees and plants whose remains are associated with the fossil bones , manifest , by their close affinity to living species , that the islands or continents on which they grew possessed as pure an atmosphere , as high a temperature , and as unclouded skies as those of our tropical climes .
There are therefore no legitimate grounds for the hypothesis in which some physiologists have indulged , that during the " Age of Reptiles " the earth was in the state of a half-finished planet , and its atimosphere too heavy , from an excess of carbon , for the respiration of warm-blooded animIals .
Such an opinion can only have originated from a partial view of all the phenomena which these problems embrace , for there is as great a discrepancy between the existing faunas of different regions , as in the extinct groups of animals and plants which geological researches have revealed .
The memoir was illustrated by numerous drawings , and the gigantic humerus of ' the Pelorosaurus and other bones were placed before the Society .

