26 On the Surface-tension of Liquids investigated hy the Method of Jet Vibration .
By P. 0 .
Pedersen , Copenhagen .
( Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , P.R.S. Received June 11 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) 1 .
According to Lord Rayleigh 's theory* of jet-vibrations , measurement of the length of the standing waves and the velocity and cross-section of a jet , together with the density of the liquid , affords the necessary constants for the calculation of the surface-tension .
Notwithstanding the great fundamental advantages of this method , it has only been used in very few cases , and only for relative measurements of the surface-tension , j* The explanation hereof is to be found in the great difficulties connected with the adequate exact determination of the wave-length , and cross-section or velocity of the jet .
As none of the methods in use for the measurement of these quantities could be taken as satisfactory , the main object of this investigation has been to work out really good methods for them .
2 .
The determination of the cross-section of the jet is accomplished in the following manner:\#151 ; To the lower end of a pendulum is connected an apparatus , the " jet-catcher , " consisting of two parallel vessels with rectangular openings , the short sides of which are cutting-edges .
The two vessels are parallel to the horizontal jet and symmetrical to each other with regard to a plane through the axis of the pendulum .
When this is oscillating the jet-catcher is cutting pieces out of the horizontal jet .
From the weight and the length of these pieces " cut out " the cross-section of the jet is calculated .
The different sources of errors are discussed , and it is shown that it is easy to obtain very reliable results by this method .
For a water-jet , velocity 273T cm .
per second , diameter = 0T3415 cm .
, the mean error in the measured cross-section has been determined to 0T4 per cent. The velocity of the jet is calculated as the ratio between the discharge and the cross-section .
3 .
Production of the desired deviation from the cylindrical form of a jet:\#151 ; * Lord Rayleigh , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 29 , p. 71 , 1879 .
t F. Piccard , 'Arch .
d. Sc. phys .
et not .
, ' ( 3 ) , vol. 24 , p. 561 , 1890 ; G. Meyer , ' Wied .
Ann. , ' vol. 66 , p. 523 , 1898 .
On the Surjace-tension of Liquids , etc. In the paper is shown the importance of the jet only executing one single vibration , as in other cases the determination of the wave-length is difficult and becomes inaccurate .
In the measurements that , up to now , have been made with this method , only little attention has been paid to this condition .
I have succeeded in making some orifices so exact , that jets issuing from them practically only execute one vibration .
4 .
The influence of the amplitude on the period of vibration has been investigated , and it is shown that only for very small amplitudes is the period independent of the amplitude .
5 .
The determination of the wave-length is very difficult .
By all the previous measurements it is determined as the distance between the summits of the jet , and the determination has taken place by direct measurement either on the jet itself or on a photograph of it .
As the amplitude of the vibration must be small , this method is very unsatisfactory , and cannot give good results .
An exact determination of the wave-length can be made by using the jet itself as an optical , image-forming system .
The following method was found to be very convenient:\#151 ; The jet is illuminated from a parallel , linear , incandescent lamp , and the twice refracted and once reflected rays form an image of the lamp on a photographic plate ( compare the theory of the rainbow ) .
If the jet is cylindrical , the image will be a straight line , but for a jet with standing-waves the image will be wavelike .
And as the amplitude of the image is much larger than that of the jet , it is much easier to measure the wave-length on the image than on the jet itself .
6 .
Results.\#151 ; The surface - tension of the following liquids has been determined :\#151 ; Water ( T15oC .
= 74'30 din ./ cm .
) , Toluol ( T15oC .
= 28'76 " ) .
Aniline ( T15o C- = 43D0 " ) .
3 aqueous solutions of NH3 .
1 " solution of C11SO4 .
1 " " H2SO4 .
15 " solutions of alcohol .
For the three first named the results are given above .
7 .
Used in this manner the jet method gives very consistent results , and is highly deserving of use in the future on account of its great fundamental advantages .

