An Account of some Books .
I. ELEMENS de GEOMETRI E ; par le P. Ignace Gaston Pardies , dela Comp. de I. A Paris 1671 , in 12o .
THe Learned Author of this Tract declares , that in it he hath given a short and easy Method to learn what is necessary to be known of Euclid , Archimedes , Apollonius , and of the best Inventions of the Ancient and Modern Geometricians .
Of which Method he hath now publish't the first 9 Books ; reserving to another time the remaining Seven , which , he saith , are to explain the more profound and sublime inventions of this Science , but are not so necessary to those , that have a mind to begin the Study of it ; for whose greater convenience he seems to have taken the pains to divulge this first part , In which he treats of what he thought most considerable in the 15 Books of Euclid ; and besides , What Archimedes hath demonstrated of the Quadrature of the Circle , as also the Doctrine of Logarithms , of Sinus 's , &amp;c. He shows the admirable proprieties of the Numbers , which Euclid hath demonstrated in the 7,8 , and 9th .
of his Elements .
He affirms , to have found a new way of Teaching the Doctrine of Incommensurables , and given Directions in four or five small pages , perfectly to comprehend what very few persons , even of those that meddle with Geometry , are able to understand .
Besides this , he treats of divers kinds of Progressions , chiefly insisting on the Two most famous ones , viz. the Geometrical and Arithmetical ; and comparing them one with another , he treats of Logarithms , and shows the Art of them by the means of a Geometrick Line , by him esteemed very useful for the Resolution of all sorts of Algebraical Problems ; by the help of which he saith to have formerly squared the Hyperbola .
He concludes this first Part with a short Practical Geometry ; wherein , besides the more easy and more common Operations , he saith he hath delivered the Principles not only of measuring the Magnitudes and Distances of places Inaccessible ; of making the Map of a place or a province ; of finding the Sinus 's , Tangents and Secants of all Angles ; but in short , of coming to the Knowledge of what ever appertains to this part of Geometry .
In his Preface he promises to give us , next , his Algebra , his Doctrine of Conical Sections , Sphericks and Staticks ; but , above all , to establish Five or six General Rules , whence afterwards , by way of Corollaries , may be drawn the demonstration of an Infinity of Propositions , which pass for great ones in Geometry : Where , he adds , shall be found the nature and measure of Asymptotick spaces , as the most admirable knowledge in the World ; those spaces being of an extent actually infinite , comprised between two lines , which being infinitely prolonged do never meet ; but of which yet it may be demonstrated , that they are equal to a Circle or another determined figure ; so that Infinite it self , as immense and innumerable as it is , may notwithstanding be reduced to a calculus and to a Geometrical measure , and that the Mind of Man , being greater than it , is capable to comprehend it ; For since Imagination cannot attain so far as to represent unto us what is Infinite ; the demonstration , we make of the nature and proprieties of this immense and infinite Asympotick extension , convinces us at the same time , that we have within us a power capable to represent unto us this infinite Extension .
For , saith he , as , for measuring with a Rule and Compass a Figure represented upon paper , I must have this Figure present to mine eyes and hands , that so , by applying the Instruments to its angles and sides , I may take all the dimensions of it , and so determine its Magnitude ; even so , for taking with the rule of my Reason the measures of this Asymptotick space , I must have an Idea thereof inwardly presented to my Mind , and this Mind by applying it self , as it were , to this Idea and Interior figure , must take the dimensions of it , determine its bigness , and demonstrate all its proprieties , &amp;c. In the same Preface the Author deduceth largely , wherein his Method of Teaching Geometry differs from the Methods of others , as to facility and intelligibleness : which we forbear to transcribe , because it would take up too much of that room , which we shall need for giving some account of Two other Authors .
II .
Regnerus de Graaf de SUCCOPANCREATIC O. Lugduni Batavorum , An. 1671 , in 12~ .
THat the Reader may not think , we twice serve up the same matter , forasmuch as we may seem to have described this very Tract long ago , viz. in Numb. 10.p.178 ; we must inform him , that this Edition is by the Author himself esteemed to deserve in a manner the Name of a New Treatise , by reason of several New Observations added , and divers Objections solved therein .
Besides , that there is annexed to it the Author 's Ingenious Letter to D. Lucas Schacht , Professor of Physic at Leyden , de Partibus Genitalibus Mulierum ; of which subject he therein summarily delivers , what he intends to compose hereafter a Book of .
De quo quidem Argumento no nihil dicamus , lingua minus communi rem totam , ab Authore hic traditam , compendifacere studebimus .
Ait itaque , Vasa praeparantia Mulierum breviora esse quam Virorum : Testes Muliebres nullam cum Virilibus similitudinem obtinere , cum non sint vascula seminaria , sed perfectissima ova in se contineant , ad quae vasa praeparantia excurrant : Ova in Testibus illis contenta faecunda reddi , quatenus seminalis Aura , ex Vtero per patentes ejus Tubas ad Testes pervadens , in Ovis inibi latitantibus formentationem excitat ; coque ipso Testiculorum substantiam ad expellenda Ova disponit , quae a fimbria , Tubarum extremitate , excepta , per Tubas ad Uterum transeant : Ligamenta Uteri nil aliud esse quam membranas multis vasculis refertas quorum extremitates in pinguedine Pubis terminentur &amp; evanescant : Arterias Hypogastricas , plures disseminare propagines ad Uterum , quam ad Vaginam ejus ; earum , quae ad Uterum excurrunt , praecipuam miro ductu utrinque ad Uteri fundum pertingere , atque Arteriis praeparantibus siue spermaticis tam affabre uniri , ut peritiores etiam Anatomici dubitare possint , utrum ab Hypogastricis , an vero a Praeparantibus Arteriis sanguinem suum arteriosum Testes ac Tubae hauriant : Venas Hypogastricas , etiam ad Uterum , Vaginam &amp; reliquas parts tendentes , sibi invicem tot tamque patentibus nexibus copulari , ut inflata vel minima venula protinus totius Uteri , Vaginae , Tubarum atque Testiuns venae distendantur : Utero secundum longitudinem per medium diviso , dissectorum vasorum orificia quamplurima conspici , atque Uteri cavitatem tantum unicam reperiri , eamque ab interno Uteri osculo usque ad magnam suam capacitatem rugosam esse , pluribusque foraminulis praeditam , ex quibus , presso Utero , pituitosa &amp; viscida materia prodeat : Adhaec , in rugosa Vaginae tunica hinc inde etiam porulos conspici , sed longe pauciores ac minores , quam in collo Uteri , nisi prope Vaginae orificium , ubi , in Superiori inprimis part , prope meatum urinerium , &amp; in ipso , tam magni ductus sive lacunae reperiantur , ut stylum crassiusculum admittant , ex quibus in salacioribus , non minus quam ex iis , qui sunt in Uteri collo , materia seroso pituitosa ( improprie semen vocata ) cum impetu erumpit .
Denique , Clitoridi , ut Membro virili , arterias , venas &amp; nervos communicari , &amp; quoad substantiam cum Pene virili aliquam similitudinem habere ; carer tamen Urethra , &amp; duobus tantum Musculis instrui , licet plerique quatuor numerent ; sub horum Musculorum carnosis expansionibus spongiosum quoddam reperiri corpus , ex multis vasculis &amp; fibrillis conflatum , quod propria membrana cingatur , &amp; ad latera Vaginae , prope ejus orificium , ab inseriori part ad membranosam usque Clitoridis substantiam utrinque ascendat , uti , si infletur , conspiciendum se praebeat .
Hactenus Industrius juxta ac Doctus hic Author ; Cujus ampliorem de hac materia Dissertationem , fidis Observationibus &amp; Experimentis nixam , impense desideramus ; inprimis vero , ut liquidius , quam hactenus factum , ostendatur , quo scil , meatu Ova ista quarumvis faemellarum e Testibus in Tubas , &amp; per Tubas , quae aliqua sui part imperviae habentur , in Uterum devolvantur .
Spes interim haud levis me fovet , Controversiam hanc de mulierum Ovariis , cum ea hoc ipso tempore Peritissimorum quorumque in Anglia , Gillia , Belgio , &amp;c. Anatomicorum tribunali se stiterit , brevi ab ipsis , in rei Anatom cae incrementum , penitus elucidatum iri~ Vid. Numb. 70.p .
2136 .
III .
Physico Mathesis de LUMIN E , COLORIBUS &amp; IRID E , &amp;c. Auth. Franc .
Maria Grimaldo S. J. Bononiae , 1665 .
in 4~ .
THis Learned Treatise was not to be altogether omitted in these Philosophical Occurrences , though an Account of it hath been deferred ( too long , ) it being but lately fallen into the Publisher 's hands .
The Author then finding , that much obscurity was left in the Doctrine of Light , and esteeming it rather commendable than presumptuous , to endeavour the clearing of it , especially if that be done by Experiments ( which he judges an exceedingly conducive way for the Improvement of all Natural Knowledge ; ) undertaketh in Two parts to deliver his Trials and Meditations on this Subject .
In the First are contained the several Experiments , which may favour the Doctrine of the Substantiality of Light , together with the Ratiocinations thence arising .
In the Second is represented , What may be answered to all those Arguments , so as to save the Peripatetic Opinion of the Accidentality of Light : Which yet is done in such a manner , as that the Author leaves a liberty to the Judicious Reader , to embrace which of these two Opinions he shall think the more probable .
But , more particularly , in the former part he explains , How many ways Light is propagated or diffused , viz. not only directly , and by refraction , and reflexion , but also by diffraction ; which last , according to him , is done , when the parts of Light , separated by a manifold dissection , do in the same medium proceed in different ways .
Next , he considers the Nature of Light , as also D aphaneity , and Opacity ; and takes notice , that most Bodies , whether Solid or Fluid , are porous ; on which occasion he ventures to explain almost the whole Philosophy of Magneticks .
Then he discusseth the Question , Whether the diffusion of Light be Instantaneous , and concludes it in the Negative , though the Duration of it be imperceptible .
This done , he examines the nature of Reflexion and Refraction , and seems to acknowledge , that , supposing Light to be a Substance very fluid and very subtle , an account may easily be given , why it is reflected and refracted , and why it observes such Laws in its reflexion and refraction , as really it doth .
Further , he discourses of Colours , and considers , How Light is changed into Colour , sometimes by Reflexion alone , sometimes by Refraction alone , sometimes without either and without the change of the Medium , vid .
by Diffraction .
He explains also , How Light by the sole intrinsic modification of it self , passes sometimes into a colour that is commonly called Apparent : Where he declares , that the reason , why Light passes into an Apparent colour , is not some determinate Angle , at which the rays amongst themselves are inclined ; but that that Colour is produced by the intension and density of Light .
He teaches also , That to the Vision of things permanently coloured , there are not required any intentional species , transmitted from them , and contradistinct to Light ; but that the Light , which is diffused , or at least reflected from things coloured , is sufficient ; yet with such a Modification , as is to be found in Light apparently coloured : On which occasion many particulars are delivered concerning Reflex Vision , together with an Explication of that Quaere , How the Place of the thing seen is perceived ?
&amp;c. To all which is added , that the Modification of Light , by which it is both permanently , and ( as they speak ) apparently coloured , or made sensible under the representation of Colour , may not improbably be said to be a determinate and most finely furrowed Undulation of the same , and a kind of tremulous diffusion , with a certain very subtle floating , whereby it doth , in a peculiar way of application , affect the Organ of Vision : Which is illustrated and confirmed by what is by Philosophers taught of Sound and Hearing .
Upon which it is inferred , that Colours are not any thing permanent in visible things , not of themselves lucid , when they are not illuminated ; but that they are the Light it self , under some peculiar Modification made sensible by the Sight .
Lastly , This first part is ended with a large Discourse of the Rainbow , its Colours and their Order , its Circular figure , the Concentrickness of Rainbows , &amp;c. Concluding upon the whole , that a Rainbow , both the Primary and Secundary , is generated from the Solar rays , reflected and refracted by the drops of a rorid cloud , so that the Primary is represented by the rays that are once reflected within those drops ; but the Secundary , by the rays twice reflected , and which after a double refraction in both cases pass to the Eye , placed in the axis of the Rainbow .
The Second Part is dispatched in Six Propositions ; in which the Author takes pains , notwithstanding all what he hath delivered before , to abet Aristotle 's opinion , importing , that Light is an Accident ; though he dissembles not , that that Philosopher seems to have somewhere favoured the contrary Opinion ; as he also acknowledges , that the Experiments and the Reasons thence deduced for the Substantiality of Light , approach very near to a Physico-Mathematical evidence , especially with such men as have , either skilfully and carefully made those Experiments , themselves , or attentively beheld them , when made by others .
However , he makes a shift to say something by way of Answer to all the Arguments , produced in the first place for the proof of Lights being a Substance : yet denying , that , though Light were an Accident , it would follow , that Colours , called Permanent , are something distinct from Light , and residing in Bodies when Light is absent .
IV .
Marci Meibomii de Fabrica TRIREMIUM Liber .
Amstelodami 1671 .
in 4~ .
THis Discourse treats first of the Occasion and Original of Shipping , and relates , that it began with Oars , and then was improved by Sails , and at last was practised with the use of both .
In the beginning , for Celerity and Fight , they multiplied Oars , and , for some strength , they fortified their ships with strong Beaks , as Birds of pray have strong Wings and a sharp Beak .
He ascribes to the Sidonians the first invention of Building long Ships for War , and the contrivance of filling them with Oars in such a manner , that no void spaces might be left .
As broader and shorter Ships were built for burden Gallies he distinguishes into Monocrota , wherein one or more rows of men do sit in the same level or plain ; and Polycrota , in which the Rowers sit in divers heights , one above another , as in Amphi-theaters ; whence the Biremis , Triremis , Quadriremis , and so on to the Tessaraconteris , the biggest that we read of , and recorded to have been made by Philopater .
In the Monocrota he considers the manner of the Sitting of the Rowers ; and the Interscalmium , or the space between the two Oars of the same Versus or Row ; referring the Transtra to the Polycrota Galleys ; where he hath occasion to examine the measure of the great and Roman foot and cubit ; as also to give the meaning of the words Versus ( Gr .
~ or ~ ) and Ordo ( Gr .
~ .
) Next he endeavours to explain in the Galleys that are Polycrota of 3 , 4 , 5 , or more tires of Rowers , seated in different heights , how those men could be placed .
And here he pretends to have been the first , that hath perfected the way of lessening the height of the ancient Galleys , by devising these two Expedients ; by the first of which ( said to have been published by him 22 years since ) he affirms to have showed , so to place the Lateral Rowers , as that he that sits behind an other , may move his hands and Oar under the seat of the rower sitting next before him : By which means three lateral Rowers , which , according to Scaliger 's way , would require the height of 131/ 2 feet , will be content with the space of 71/ 2 feet .
By the other Invention , which he now adds , he pretends to have found a new place in those Ships for almost half the number of Rowers ; forasmuch as on the side of the aforesaid Rowers , he places others in the middle of the Ship , in transtris or traverse Seats , which , as he imagines , ( how consonantly to use and practice , the Intelligent soon will judge ) may thrust out their Oars under the Seats of the Lateral Rowers .
By which contrivance he thinks is gained in a Quinqueremis the space of nine feet in height : which , he saith , Scaliger , if alive , would admire .
And to all this he subjoyns some passages out of ancient Authors , which he conceives do much strengthen the fitness of these Inventions of his , concerning both the placing of the Lateral Rowers , and those that sit in transtris .
Here he inserts the Explication of those names of Thalamita , Zygita , and Thranita , in the Triremis ; the first signifying him that sits in the lowest row ; the second , him that sits in Transtris ; the third , him that sits uppermost .
After this , he inquires , Whether ever such great Vessels of so many tires of Oars , sitting in so many different heights , were ever actually built ?
And , if they were , Whether they ever came abroad to Fight ?
Especially such an one as that of Philopators is recorded to have been , of forty tires , requiring above four thousand Rowers ; and that of Ptolemaeus Philadelphus , of thirty tires , having more than three thousand Rowers ; and another of twenty rows , requiring two thousand .
Hereupon our Author scruples not to affirm all to be true , what is written of such vast Ships ; adding , that he hath made it intelligible , how it may be so , by finding places for the Zygitae , and a convenience of moving their Oars under the Seats of those that sate next before them .
And here he shows at large , of what determinate bigness those Vessels were , according to his supposition and contrivance ; vance ; beginning from a Triremis , and showing , how many Oars and Sea-men it contained , namely two hundred , of which one hundred and eighty were Rowers , and the rest Mariners .
So that in the Athenian Fleet , of which Cono was General , consisting of one hundred and eighty Triremes , there were fix and thirty thousand Men .
Then proceeding to a Quinque-remis , with four hundred and twenty Men apiece ; of which there were Rowers three hundred , and Soldiers one hundred and twenty .
So that three things were stupendious in that Roman Fleet at Messina , and the Carthaginian at Lylibeum ; one is , that the former consisted of three hundred and thirty , and the latter of three hundred and fifty Ships , most Quinqueremes , that is , an hundred and fifty feet long ; the second , that the number of Men , they contained , was one hundred and thirty thousand , and one hundred and fifty thousand Men ; the third , the apparatus and provision necessary : Yet all this affirmed by one of the best of the ancient Historians , Polybius ; who himself wonders at such a vast Equipage .
Here the Author undertaketh , out of Polybius , Plutarch , and Livy , to refute Salmasius , affirming , that hardly any Galleys were built or equipped bigger than of Nine Tires , called ~ .
Hence he proceeds to the Ships of Eleven Rows ( ~ , ) and of Fifteen Rows ( ~ ; ) and to one of Sixteen ( ~ .
) Having dispatched these particulars ( of which we leave Curious and Learned Antiquaries , and good Naval Architects to judge ) he proposes the Usefulness of these his Inventions , after that , by the means of them , both the Structure and Ordering of Ancient Shipping hath been explained ; and is of opinion , that the Modern Galleys and Galleasses might , according to his Model , be more conveniently built , both for celerity , strength , and lesser expenses .
He thinks , that the Modern form would be better , if in the Structure the proportion of the long Ships of the Ancients were observed .
And he conceives also , that Five men sitting at one Oar in the Modern Galeasses , much strength is wasted to no purpose , because they sit too near to the side or stay ( the fulcrum ; ) whereas a lesser number of Rowers , at a greater distance from the said Stay , would give more strength for more swiftness , and require less charge .
To which he adds , that these Galleys are of great use both in Rivers and Un-deep Seas , and therefore convenient for the Baltic and Britannick , as well as the Mediterranean Seas .
Further , that they are very serviceable for transporting great Forces .
Occasionally ( to add that by the by , ) he shows out of josephus lib. 8.c.7 .
what is meant by the Almyggim Wood in Sacred Writ , 1 Reg.10.11 , 2 Chron. 11 .
8 , &amp;c. ~ , namely , the Indian Pine or Firr-tree , brought out of Ophir , excellent both for a shining Whiteness and for Levity ; whence very proper for Musical Instruments .
LONDON Printed for John Martyn , Printer to the Royal~Society .
1671/ 2 .

