c 876 .
] On Currents and Temperature in the Ocean .
321 f ) lied by preference with oil , which terminates in the horizontal spiral a lass tube at a point which will vary with the total attractive influence rl \#163 ; the earth , and thus furnish a means of reading the instrument .
The r f lectric contact arrangement described in the paper is thus rendered un-ecessary , and the reading of the instrument much simplified .
I. " On Instruments for Recording the Direction and Velocity of Currents and the Temperature of the Water at different Depths in the Ocean .
" By J. Rymer Jones , of the Imperial Government Telegraphs , Japan .
Communicated by Prof. Rymer Jones , F.R.S. Received January 1 , 1876 .
1 The object of these instruments is to register on board ship :\#151 ; 1st .
The direction of currents which flow at different depths in the ocean .
2ndly .
The velocity of those currents .
3rdly .
The temperature of the sea at all points between the surface and bottom , without requiring the instruments to be hauled up in order to register the results .
' The advantages of such results , if capable of being obtained , must [ tppear self-evident ; and the following description will , I hope , prove the practicability pf those methods which I propose to adopt in order to i trrive at the above desiderata .
I All three instruments are based on electrical principles .
Diag .
1 .
fig. 1 represents a full-sized section of the instrument umployed for making serial observations of the direction of currents lowing at different depths in the sea ; and in the lower part of the same igure is shown the method for taking the temperatures at the same points ; but as the description of this instrument will form a separate paragraph , I shall dismiss it for the present with the remark that the same leading-wires are used in connexion with both instruments .
In considering the best method for registering the direction of deep-lea currents , two things seem absolutely necessary:\#151 ; 1st , some point capable of taking up a fixed direction and uninfluenced by the currents ; Mid 2ndly , a movable point taking up the direction of , and regulated by , he current whose direction is required .
With these data it appeared sufficiently easy to arrive at the direction of the currents , by measuring the angle between the fixed point and the movable point , which varies with the direction of the current .
It is clear that the only available fixed point is that afforded by the unerring magnet , while the employment of a sufficiently large vane will cause the instrument to take up a position in the direction of the current , the rest being only matter of detail , which I now proceed to discuss .
In order to keep the magnet in a perfectly horizontal position and un-VOL .
XXIV .
' ^ b 322 Mr. J. R. Jones on Instruments for measuring [ Feb. 24 influenced by any unsteadiness of the instrument , gimbals ( diag .
1 .
fig. 1 and diag .
2 .
fig. 1 ) , gg , are employed , as in the case of the mariner 's compass ; and underneath the card cc ( diag .
1 .
fig. 1 ) , to which the magnet is attached , is a copper wire ( permanently fixed at right angles to the magnet m m , along which an electric current is made to pass , and thus has no tendency to deflect the magnet from the magnetic meridian .
Attached to one end of this copper wire ( tv ) on the upperside , and passing through the card , is a fine platinum wire , about 3 inches long , and tapering to a mere fibre at the top , and the wire is carefully counterpoised at the other end .
The pivot on which the magnet is poised is of brass ( 6 ) and pointed with platinum and is in connexion with the sea through the pivots of the gimbals , gg .
A double casing of thick sheet-copper ( ABCD ) is strengthened by stays ( i ii ) calculated to stand the great deep-sea pressures ; and the air-chamber between the inside and outside casing renders the whole instrument buoyant , and is intended to take off all the strain from the line when being hauled up .
e eis a section of an ebonite disk , the plan of which is shown in diag .
2 .
fig. 2 ; and fig. 1 is a section of the instrument taken through the dotted line BbDd , showing the ebonite disk , gimbals , card , and magnet ( m m ) , with the copper wire ( ww ) affixed at right angles to it .
Let into the periphery of the disk ( ee ) are sixteen pieces of brass , insulated from one another by the ebonite , but placed in such close proximity to each other that the fibrous end of the platinum wire ( pp ) must always be in contact with the under surface of one of them .
Sixteen insulated wires enter the top of the instrument in the form of a cable , which divides into two parts ( h h ) , eight wires on either side .
These are conducted through two holes h ' ) in the ebonite disk ( e e ) to the lower part of the instrument , where they pass through a second hole in the centre of the concave bottom of the compass-chamber e " e " , which renders the compartment e'eee " watertight , and to the underside of which the thermometer to be afterwards described is attached .
The ends of the wires are finally connected to the sixteen terminals on the back of the thermometer .
Before , however , passing through the holes ( ti , h ' ) short leading-wires are soldered to each and connected to the upper surfaces of the sixteen brass contacts on the ebonite disk ( e ) .
These contacts pass through the disk and project a little beyond its lower surface , where they are grooved as in fig. 1 , o o , in order to prevent the end of the platinum wire pp , which is so adjusted as to pass immediately under the centre of the groove , from trespassing beyond the line of contacts , through any unsteadiness of the instrument .
These brass contacts are amalgamated on the under surface to render the contact more decided ; and the top of the platinum wire pp must be so fine and flexible as to reduce the friction to a minimum , while at the same time it ensures perfect contact .
A stuffing-box , s ' s ' , with hemp and wax pre- D I A O R AM .1 Iir6 .
] Currents and Temperature in the Ocean .
325 uts the leakage of sea-water through the hole by which the wires enter is top of the instrument ; and the compartment is filled with cited paraffin wax , which consolidates and effectually insulates the wires fd 'contacts from one another , should any moisture find its- way in .
The registering-instrument ( diag .
2 .
fig. 3 ) is exceedingly simple and jeatly resembles the dial-plate of Breguet 's electro-magnetic dial istrument .
Around the circumference of this dial-plate are sixteen brass contacts , issing through an ebonite disk ; and to the under surface of each contact ; soldered one of the sixteen wires which form the core of the cable , lose other ends are soldered to the upper surfaces of the contacts on e disk ( e e ) , as before mentioned .
Concentric with these metallic contacts are two circles , one on either de .
In the outer circle are the rhumbs and semi-rhumbs of the wind , id in the inner circle are the degrees ( Celsius ) corresponding to those arked in the diagram of the thermometer , this dial-plate being capable registering the results of both instruments .
11 is a metallic lever capable of being moved round the dial by an ionite handle N , and the axis x of this lever is in connexion , through ie galvanometer g ' g ' , with one pole of the battery C , the other pole Z ling put to earth , E ' .
In the centre of each brass contact is an indentation for dropping the ver into ; and when not in use the handle can be turned back on to itself , jr means of a hinge ( n \#171 ; ) in the centre , and thus break the circuit .
The different parts of the instrument having now been explained , I mil proceed to describe the manner in which it is intended to take , an bservation .
After attaching weights sufficiently heavy to carry the instrument teadily down in an upright position to the detaching-instrument ( diag . .
fig. 3 ) , paying out is commenced ; and under the influence of the an E , the instrument takes up a position in the direction of the cur-ent , varying in direction as the currents vary .
Whenever it is desired o take a reading , the lowering is stopped , and the instrument in mid cean will be pointing in the direction of the current , while the magnet is pointing steadily to the north .
Tn order to understand the arrangement of the sixteen leading wires , it us suppose the instrument to be influenced by a current from the lorth ; the direction then of the vane and magnet will coincide ( diag .
2 .
ig .
1 ) , and the platinum contact p p ( diag .
1 .
fig. 1 ) , attached to the copier wire w w , and which is always at right angles to the magnet m m , will be rubbing against the under surface of the contact pointing due vest ( W. ) .
If , then , one of the sixteen wires in connexion with the ipper surface of this contact be soldered to the under surface of the ontact on the registering dial-plate marked N ( diag .
II .
fig. 3 ) , when ever his moved slowly over this contact , on the upper surface of the 576 .
] Currents and , Temperature in the Ocean .
' 327 al-plate , a current will circulate from the battery C , through galva-ometer g ' g ' ( the needle of which is deflected ) , axis of lever lever 11 , mtact N , leading-wire to the contact against the underside of which ie platinum wire is pressing , and through it and the pivots of the imbals to earth E ' , and back to the battery-pole Z , which must also be ut to earth .
It is clear that by calling this contact of the dial-plate orth , and soldering the other fifteen wires in order to the under surges of the remaining contacts ( as in diag .
2 .
fig. 3 ) , with their other nds attached to the corresponding contacts around the periphery of the bonite disk ( e e ) in the instrument below , in order to find the direction f any other current than a northerly one , the handle has only to be noved round the dial until the galvanometer-needle is seen to deflect ; nd when this is the case , the lever will be pressing against the contact whose letter represents the direction of the current which was required o be found .
This reading having been duly registered , the instrument s lowered some 100 fathoms or more ; and after waiting for a few ninutes for the instrument to settle down in the direction of the current , the handle of the dial-plate is again turned round on board , in jither direction , over the contacts until the galvanometer-needle again leflects , showing that an electric current passes ; and after registering die direction of this current also , the instrument may be lowered to greater depths , and readings taken at any points between the surface and die bottom of the sea .
On reaching the bottom the weights detach themselves by means of the apparatus ( diag .
1 .
fig. 3 ) invented by Mr. Edward Hill , and the instrument ( whose weight has been previously adjusted to enable it to float , when there is no sinker attached , and remain in an upright position ) offers little weight or strain to the cable when being hauled up .
The detaching-apparatus made use of is one designed by Mr. Edward Hill expressly for detaching weights ; and after many trials this method has been found to be exceedingly sure and trustworthy .
So long as the sinker is in mid ocean , the ring r r ' remains tightly hooked on to the apparatus ( fig. 3 ) ; but directly the sinker rests on the bottom and the strain is taken off , the ring r ' falls , and the form of the apparatus effectually prevents the ring r ' from rehooking the sinker when the instrument is raised ; instead of which it slides up the curved surface ( cf. fig. ) and becomes completely detached .
The detaching-apparatus is left at the bottom , after each series of observations , with the sinker ; but as this can be made exceedingly cheaply , the loss is very trivial .
The cable containing the core of sixteen insulated wires must be strengthened by strands of steel wire ; and it would be well to make the cable with a larger section at the top , and to taper gradually towards the end attached to the instrument below .
The strands of steel wire are intended to be finally attached to the rings in the eye-bolts uu , and thus take all the strain off the wires forming the core .
328 Mr. J. R. Jones on Instruments for measuring [ Feb. 24 A part of the double casing of the instrument is also capable of being removed by means of flanges and screws , in order to afford access to the compass-box and thermometer , care being taken to readjust the portion removed so as to render it perfectly water-tight after all the internal adjustments have been looked to .
The instrument must be made smaller should experience prove the present size too bulky ; it will , however , be necessary to have a sufficiently long compass-needle to enable it to overcome the resistance due to the friction of the end of the platinum wire , which presses against the under surfaces of the contacts ( oo ) , as above mentioned .
Instrument for measuring on board Ship the Velocities of Deep-sea Currents .
Diagram 3 .
fig. 1 represents a full-sized section of this instrument ; and here , again , the chief characteristic is its simplicity .
In outward appearance this instrument is somewhat similar to the previous one , and like it is made to place itself in the direction of the current by means of a vane F. off zis a section of a wheel with six rays , of which fig. 2 is a full-sized plan , the section representing the part and being made through the centre of the wheel , as shown by the dotted line .
One half only of this wheel ( x w z is exposed to the free action of the water at once ( cf. fig. 2 ) .
The wheel revolves on its axis ( W W ) , which is carefully pivoted on jewels in the small brass cups , cc , fixed on the centres of the disks ( cl cl , B D ) .
The upper end of this axis carries a soft armature ( a a ) , which rotates with the wheel immediately under the poles of a large horseshoe magnet ( m m).Around the poles of the magnet are two bobbins of insulated wire ( b b ) , wound in opposite directions , and in connexion with them are the two leading-wires , one of which is put to earth , and the other passes up the core of the cable to the registering-instrument on board .
Between the poles of the magnet and the armature ( a a ) is a disk of ebonite or boxwood or other non-conductor ( B D ) , strengthened round the edge by a rim of brass , and sufficiently thick to prevent its warping , which is intended to render the compartme t ( BCD ) water-tight and protect the magnet and coils .
The reason for not employing a sheet of copper or other metal is to avoid the magnetism of rotation discovered by Arago , or the reaction of currents induced in the copper plate by the armature revolving , as explained by Faraday ; this reaction , though probably small and insignificant , is better eliminated , as the tendency is to improve the motion of the armature .
The wooden disk ( cl ' cl ' ) keeps the magnet firmly in its right place , and a stuffing-box ( s ' s ' ) prevents sea-water from entering the compartment , which is also filled with paraffin wax as an additional security .
The registering-instrument on board is an ordinary double-current counter ( fig. 3 ) , similar to those made by the British Telegraph Manufactory , r ]76.j Currents and Temperature in the Ocean .
329 ujiston E-oad , London , and which are most suitable and trustworthy , 'hen it is required to make an observation , a sinker is put on to the cfcaching-apparatus , and the instrument lowered to the required depth , uere it remains steadily in a perpendicular position in the direction of rife current , and the wheel commences to rotate , more quickly or slowly jcording to the velocity of the current influencing it , carrying round on j axis the soft iron armature ( a a ) which revolves in front of the poles m the magnet ( mm ) , causing induced currents to circulate through the .Us , which change in direction at every half-revolution .
In order that es induced currents may circulate in the same direction through both .ils of wire b b , the bobbins are wound , one right-handed , and the other lilt-handed .
These reverse currents are transmitted , on depressing the key ( Jc ) , rough the insulated wire of cable , key , galvanometer , counter , to rth E , the other leading-wire being also connected through the instru-1 ent to earth , as before mentioned .
Thus a succession of reverse cur-nts traverse the counter ( fig. 3 ) so long as the contact-key ( \amp ; ) con-lues to complete the circuit , and both the counter and the wheel in id ocean keep perfect time together .
The counter may be adjusted to ro , or the position of the hands noted ; and when the instrument is | the desired depth , the contact-key is held down and the counter begins !
) indicate the revolutions of the wheel for one minute , or for whatever i iriod of time may be required .
Thus by finding the number of revo-tions produced in a given time by a current flowing with a certain aown velocity , data may be obtained for finding the velocities of other reams or deep-sea currents , a constant being allowed for friction , hich must be calculated .
On reaching the bottom the weights are Cached , and the instrument , whose weight has been previously adjusted \gt ; enable it to float and remain in a perpendicular position , offers little \#166 ; rain to the cable when being hauled up .
As the pressure is equally great on the inside and outside of this istrument , it is not necessary to have so strong a casing as the other istrument requires .
Instead of only two poles , as in the diagram , four poles may be used , he principle being the same as adopted by Sir Charles Wheatstone in is extremely beautiful ABC instrument , in order to get rid of the hob-ling motion peculiar to other magneto-electric machines .
By this rrangement the stronger current induced in the coils as the armature asses off one pole , compensates for the weaker induced current which irculates through the coils when the armature approaches the other whole , and thus makes the reverse currents much more regular .
The oils must be wound so that the currents circulate in the same direction , f this method is adopted there will be four reverse currents for every evolution of the armature instead of two , as before mentioned , and the lumber indicated on the counter will have to be divided by two . .
vol. xxiv .
2 o

