On the Electricity excited by the mere Contact of conducting Substances of different Kinds .
In a Letter from Mr. Alexander Volta , F.R.S. Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Pavia , to the Rt. Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read June 26 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 403.1 In prosecuting his experiments on the electricity produced by the mere contact of different metals , or of other conducting bodies , the learned Professor was gradually led to the construction of an apparatus , which in its effects seems to bear a great resemblance to the Leyden phial , or rather to an electric battery weakly charged ; but has moreover the singular property of acting without intermission , or rather of re-charging itself continually and spontaneously without any sensible diminution or perceptible intervals in its operations .
The object of the present paper is to describe this apparatus , with the variety of constructions it admits of , and to relate the principal effects it is capable of producing on our senses .
It consists of a long series of an alternate succession of three conducting substances , either copper , tin and water ; or , what is much preferable , silver , zinc , and a solution of any neutral or alkaline salt .
The mode of combining these substances consists in placing horizontally , first , a plate or disk of silver ( half-a-crown , for instance , ) next a plate of zinc of the same dimensions ; and , lastly , a similar piece of a spongy matter , such as pasteboard or leather , fully impregnated with the saline solution .
This set of three-fold layers is to be repeated thirty or forty times , forming thus what the author calls his columnar machine .
It is to be observed , that the metals must always be in the same order , that is , if the silver is the lowermost in the first pair of metallic plates , it is to be so in all the successive ones , but that the effects will be the .
same if this order be inverted in all the pairs .
As the fluid , either water or the saline solution , and not the spongy layer impregnated with it , is the substance that contributes to the effect , it follows that as soon as these layers are dry , no effect will be produced .
This apparatus , when it consists of only twenty pairs of metallic plates , is already capable not only of giving to Cavallo 's electrometer , with the aid of a condenser , signs of electricity as high as 10 ?
or 15 ?
, and of charging the condenser by a simple touch to such a degree as to give a spark ; but it will also give to two fingers of the same hand , the one touching the foot and the other the top of the column , a succession of small shocks , resembling those occasioned by a Leyden phial , or a battery weakly charged , or by a torpedo in a weak condition .
These effects will be increased if the conmmunication be made through water ; for which purpose the bottom of the column may be made to communicate , by a thick metallic wire , with water contained in a basin or large cup .
A person who now puts one hand into this water , aild with a piece of metal held in the other hand touches the summit of the column , will experience shocks and a pricking pain as high as the wrist of the hand plunged in the Mwater , and even sometimes as high as the elbow , while in some cases even the wrist of the other hand will experience a similar sensation .
It has been ascertained by repeated trials , that these effects are stronger in proportion to the greater distance of the metallic pairs , which are made to communicate .
Some sensation will be produced when the foot of the column is connected with the third or fourth pair , but it will perceptibly increase as we proceed further towards the summit .
This naturally led to an extension of the column much beyond the number of metallic pairs above mentioned ; and expedients are here suggested for rendering such extended columns stable and at the same time sufficiently manageable .
With a column of about sixty pairs of plates , shocks have been felt as high as the shoulder ; such a column may be even divided into two or three distinct cylinders , which being well connected by metallic conductors , will be equally powerful and much more convenient .
Among various other modes of applying the same agents , the author describes an apparatus in which the fluid is interposed between the metals without being absorbed in a spongy substance .
This consists of a number of cups or goblets , of any substance except metals , placed in a row either straight or circular , about half filled with a saline solution , and communicating with each other so as to form a kind of chain , by means of a sufficient number of metallic arcs or bows , one arm of which is of silver , or copper plated with silver , and the other of zinc .
The ends of these bows are plunged into the liquid in the same successive order , namely , the silver ends being all on one side , and those of zinc on the other , -a condition absolutely necessary to the success of the experiments , it having been observed that if out of sixty bows , for instance , the twenty intermediate ones be turned in thei opposite direction from the remainder , the effects produced by the apparatus will be far less perceptible .
It was observed , that if a circular communication be completed by means of a bow connecting the first and last of a long series of cups , two hands , or even two fingers plunged into one of these cups will still receive an electric sensation .
This is explained by admitting the fact , that warm animal substances , and particularly their fluids , are in general better conductors than water .
The sensible effects of either of these apparatus , composed of forty or fifty links , do not , it seems , consist merely in shocks , contractions , or spasms in the muscles or limbs ; but , besides affecting the sense of touch , they are also capable of exciting an imitation in the organs of taste , sight , and even hearing .
A particular account is given of these singular effects , from which we learn , that the more sensible the parts are which are exposed to the impressions of this agent , the more quick will be the sensation ; -that as to taste , we have only to recollect the experiments formerly described by the author , in which the tongue was sensibly affected by the combination of two metals applied to each side of it ; -that with respect to the sense of vision , the sparks yielded by this apparatus are sufficient evidence of the effect , certain expedients only being necessary for facilitating the perception of these explosions ; -and lastly , that the hearing will be strongly affected by introducing into the ears two probes , the opposite extremities of which are connected with the two ends of the apparatus .
No effect has as yet been produced upon the sense of smell by this machine , which is ascribed to the circumstance of the electric effluvia not being expanded in and conveyed by the air , which it is thought is the proper vehicle for exciting sensations in the olfactory nerves .
At the close of the paper the autlior points out the striking analogy there is between this apparatus and the electric organs of the torpedo and electric eel , which are known to consist of membranaceous columns filled from one end to the other with a great number of laminae or pellicles , floating in some liquid which flows into and fills the cavity .
These laminae cannot be supposed to be excited by friction , nor are they likely to be of an insulating nature ; and hence these organs cannot be compared either to the Leyden phial , the electrophore , the condenser , or any other machine capable of being excited by friction .
As yet , therefore , they can only be said to bear a resemblance to the apparatus described in this paper .
The effects hitherto known of this apparatus , and those which there is every reason to expect will be discovered hereafter , are likely , it is thought , to open a vast field for reflections and inquiries , not only curious but also interesting , particularly to the anatomist , the physiologist , and the physician .

