X. Extract of several Letters &amp;c. from different Parts of Europe , relating to the Aurora Borealis seen Oct. 19 .
N. S. 1726 .
THough the Accounts referred to have come to Hand very late , long since the Appearance of the Meteor , yet as it is manifestly the same with that remarkable one which was seen the same Night here , ( viz. Oct. 8 .
O. S. ) the Description of which is published in the Transaction No. 395 , it will not be amiss to give a short Extract of them , that the Extent of the Phenomenon may be more fully known , and its Height thereby better estimated .
Mons. Gaudin , in a Letter from the Observatory at Paris , dated October 20 .
N. S. 1726 .
writes , that he saw it first at half an Hour past seven in the Evening , forming at that Time a luminous Arch ( with another somewhat darker under it ) which extended it self almost from Sun-set to Moon-rise , and was raised above the Horizon about twenty five Degrees ; from whence shot out from Time to Time luminous Streams about ten Degrees above it .
At half an Hour past eight , the Number of these Streams vastly increased , covering all the Heaven , excepting the Height of twenty Degrees opposite to it : But towards the Zenith there remained a circular Space which was never covered by them , tho ' there wanted not a constant Succession .
These Appearances continued very strong till half an Hour after ten ; when they began to decline , and disappeared totally about two in the Morning .
Mons. Maraldi , in a Letter dated at Thiers , Oct. 20 , 1726 .
N. S. two Leagues to the South of Paris , says , it began there about half an Hour past six with a constant uniform Light in the North ; soon after which appeared three or four luminous Arches one over another , from whence issued a great Number of Rays , which shot up a considerable Height above the Horizon .
At eight o ' Clock these Rays darted quite up to the Zenith ; half an Hour after which they very much increased , spreading with strong Undulations all over the Sky , and all terminating in the Zenith formed a Sort of Cupola there .
The Conclusion he has not observed .
Sign .
Francesco Quaranbotti writes from Treggiaia , Oct. 20 .
1726 .
N. S. that he first observed it a little before eight in the Evening , when it extended it self along the North Horizon about eighty Degrees , and reached above it about eight .
After some Time , the luminous Emissions began to rise perpendicularly , and continued from time to time so to do , from nine till eleven .
About ten it enlarged it self fifteen Degrees farther East , and stretched under the last Star in Ursa major .
At eleven it vanished .
An anonymous Account in Latin from Florence informs us , that it was first seen there at half an Hour past six in the Evening , with a clear expanded Light , occupying all the Space betwixt the North-East and North-West .
At seven it divided it self into several spherical Triangles near the Horizon , which half an Hour afterwards united into one large one , whose Base was near the Horizon , and extended twenty Degrees to the West from the North-Pole , and whose Vertex reached up to Ursa minor .
This continued about half an Hour , and then disappeared ; but at ten o ' Clock it returned much more conspicuously , forming about the Pole , a large Column which was raised thirty Degrees above the Horizon .
From this Time it issued out lucid Undulations till Midnight , when it entirely dispersed .
He afterwards takes Notice that the same was seen at Milan and Bologna ; the Accounts from whence agree , that none of the Streams reached beyond the Zenith .
Sign .
Manfredi writes from Bologna , Jan. 3 .
1726-7 .
that he did not observe this Phenomenon himself , but was informed that it was seen every where in the Campagna di Roma , as far as Pesaro and Fano .
To these Accounts , which were communicated to the Society by their worthy Associate Sir Tho. Dereham , and most of them translated from the Italian by the ingenious Dr. Sheuzer , it will not be improper to subjoin , that Dr. Ericus Burman in the Act .
Literar .
Suec. Trimest .
prim .
1727 .
takes Notice , that altho ' this Meteor was seen in Germany , Poland , Swisserland , France , and England , yet at Upsal they cou 'd observe nothing but the whole Sky beset thick with Clouds , of a Colour like that of the Moon in a total Eclipse , and variously agitated as by a Wind , but this chiefly towards the South ; which continued till nine o ' Clock at Night , a little after which it grew quite cloudy .
FINI S. LONDO N : Printed for WILLIAMINNY S , at the West End of St. Paul 's .

