Experiments on the Production and Propagation of Light from the Phosphorus in Vacuo , made before the Royal Society , by Mr. Fra .
Hauksbee .
Experiment I. IN pursuance to the Commands of this Honourable Society , Having a dark Room provided , the first Experiment was by drawing some Lines on a piece of blue Paper with the Phosphorus , which became immediately Luminous in the open Air , having a continual undulating Motion .
This being placed under a Receiver , after some few Exsuctions , the Undulation ceased , but the Luminous Quality appeared to be in a great measure increased ; the Receiver being farther exhausted , it became manifestly brighter ; and so continued , till on the Admission of Air ( which was gradually done ) the Light sensibly diminishing all the while .
But upon the Repetition of the Experiment , it was the Opinion of those Gentlemen then present , that it did not appear altogether so brisk or so vivid as at first .
To Experiment II .
To 2 or 3 small pieces of Phosphorus in a Glass Dish was added a small Portion of Oil of Vitriol , Tartar per Deliquium , and Oil of Cloves , which Mixture fired the Phosphorus in the open Air : But adding a little common Water , the Flame extinguished .
This Preparation being included in a Receiver , very little light appeared : But upon exhausting the Air , it became very apparent , and sent forth Vivid Steams .
The Ingredients in the Dish ( at the same time ) appeared very much to resemble a Boiling Flame , exhibiting a large Light ; so that several Objects near it were rendered distinguishable , and continued so till the Air was admitted , at which time it became Opake .
Nor would shaking the Engine ( by which means the Mixture in the Dish was put in motion ) produce any sensible Recovery of Light .
Experiment III .
A small quantity of the pre-mention 'd Ingredients being put into a Bottle with a narrow neck , and included under a Receiver , appeared then with very little Light ; but on withdrawing the Air the Phosphorus began to be Luminous , and continued to increase , in proportion to the Rarification of the Air , issuing out of the Bottle in a Pyramidical form .
At last ( notwithstanding the Receiver was well exhausted ) the Vivid Steams that were then emitted were so fine and subtle as to ascend in so thin a medium , reaching the upper parts of the Receiver ( which was not tall ) descending again by the sides thereof .
Upon letting in the Air the Light perfectly vanished ; and it would have been in vain ( as I have often tried ) to have waited in expectation of its Recovery in the open Air .
LONDO N , Printed for Sam .
Smith and Benj .
Walford , Printers to the Royal Society , at the Princes Arms in St Paul 's Church-yard , 1705 .

