COMMITTEE ON COLOUR-VISION .
CO~TENTS .
rAne REPORT OF THE CO:'\gt ; fl\IITTEE 281 EVIDENCE TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEEMr .
Hanbury , of the Metropolitan Railway 206 , , Wadden , of the London and South western Railway 308 , , Priestley Smith. .
31Y.l , , Bambridge , Senior Examiner , Midland Railway 313 , , Bickerton 314 N ettleship 328 Captain Macnab , Local Marine Board , LiYerpool 335 Staff-Surgeon Preston , R.N. 340 Dr. G. Lindsay .
Johnson 344 , , Edridge Green . .
347 Captain Angove , Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co. 353 LETTERS RECEIVED BY THE COMMI'l'TEE BEARING- ON THE lNQUilffLetters from War Office 35i " APPENDICESAppendix , , Ci-1-il Service Commission 358 India O fficc . .
339 Admiralty 359 London , Brighton , and South Coast Raihniy 360 London and North Western Railway 361 Metropolitan Railway 361 South Eastern Railway Great N ort-hern Rail way Metropolitan District Railway London , Chatham and Dover Railway Cunard Steam-ship Co. 3G2 3G~ 3M Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co. ; JGi !
.-Examinations by the Ophthalmological Society of London . . . . . . . . . .
368 II.-Bm1rd of Trade Circular as to Colour Tests III.-Holmgren 's Method of Testing for Colour IV.-Dr .
J ea:ffreson 's Colour-testing Apparatus V.- Testing with the Spectroscope . .
VI.-Dr .
Suellen 's Test Types VII.--Summary of Colour-blind Cases detected at all Examination of Railway Employcs at Swindon 3i2 3[1:i REPORT OF THE COM}{lTTEE ON COLOURYISION .
The Committee on Colour-Vision appointed by the Council of the Royal Society on March 20 , 1890 , and consisting of the following members :-The Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. , Chairman ; The Lord Kelvin , Pres. R.S. ; Mr. R. Brudenell Carter ; Prof. A. JI .
Church , F.R.S. ; Mr. , T. Evans , Treas .
R.S. ; Dr. R. Farquharson , J\I.P .
; Prof. 1\1 .
Foster , Sec. R.S. ; Mr. F. Galton , F.R.S. ; Dr. W. Pole , F.R.S. ; Sir G. G. Stokes , Bart , M.P. , F.R.S. ; and Captain W. d~ 'iY .
Almey , C.B. , l:\lt ; 1.R.S .
, Secretary , now submit their Report , with :Minutes of the Evidence taken .
The Committee have held 30 meetings , and have examined more than 500 indiYiduals as to their colour-vision .
They have tried various methods and apparatus , including Ilolmgren 's wooltest with Dr. , Jeaffreson 's and Dr. Thomson 's modifications , Lord Rayleigh 's colour-mixing apparatus and that of Captain Abney , Dr. Karl Grossmaun 's system , the lantern devised by Mr. F. Galton , and Mr. Lovibond 's tintometer .
They have taken the uvid~nce of Captain Steele , of the Board of Trade ; Mr. Rosser , a private instructor in navigation ; Messrs. J. J. Hanbury , A. ?
\#183 ; II .
W au.den , and Bambridg\#183 ; e , connected with the colonrte .
stmg departments of certain railways ; Captain Macnab , of the Liverp~ol Board of Trade ; Captain Angove , of the Peninsular and Onental Steamship Company ; and the following surgeons ~nd experts in colour-vision testing :-Mr .
Priestley Smith , dr .
T. H. Bickerton , Mr. E. Nettleship , Staff-Surg ; eon T. J. \rest~n , Dr. G. Lindsay Johnson , and Dr. Edridge Green .
The Comimttl'e a:re under great obligations to Captain Abney , not 0 !
ilY for havmg officiated as Secretary , but also for his very con- .
Hd~rable laliour in the determination of colour-constants , the r1giSlr~tion of colours , and the examination , by spectral methods , 0 particular cases of defective colour-vision .
C Aft~r weighing the evidence which they have obtained , the onmuttee have unanimously agreed upon the following recomlllendations :- 1\#183 ; 'I"u at 1.he Board of Trade or some other central authority , sho~ld schedule certai~ employments in the mercantile lllarme and on railways , the :filling of which by persons whoso vision is defective either for coluur or form , or who are ignmant of the names of colours , would involve ~- d~nger to life and property .
Th.it the proper testilw both for colour and form , of al candidat.es for such e~ployments should be compulsory .
u2 282 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
3 .
That the testing should be entrusted to examiners certifi .
c-1.ted by the central authority .
, t. That the test for colour-vision should be that of Holmgren the sets of wools being approved by the central authority before use , especially as to the correctness of the three test colours , and also of the confusion colours .
If the test be satisfactorily passed , it should be followed Ly the candidate being re\lt ; ]_uired to name without hesitation the colours which are employed as signals or lights , and also white light .
D. 'l'hat the tests for form should be those of Snellen , and that they should be carried out as laid down in Appendix VI .
It would probably , in most cases , suffice if half normal vision in each eye were required .
o. That a candidate rejected for any of the specified employ . .
ments should have a right of appeal to an expert approved by the central authority , whose decision should lJo final .
7 .
That a candidate who is rejected for naming colourg wrongly , but who bas been proved to possesR nonnal colour-vision , should be allowed to be re-examined after a proper interval of time .
8 .
That a certificate of the candidate 's colour-vision and formvision according to the appointed tests , and his capacity for naming the signal colours , should be given hy the examiner ; and that a schedule of persons examined , showing the results , together with the nature of the employments for which examinations were held , should ue sent annually to the central authority .
9 .
That every third year , or oftener , persons filling- the scheduled employments should be examined for fonnvision .
l 0 .
That the tests in use , and the mode of conducting examinations at the different testing stations , : ; , hold be in,.:pected periodically by a scientific expert , appointed for that purpose by the central authority .
11 .
That the colom-s used for lights on board ship , and for lamp signals on railways , should , so far as possible , be nnifonn , and that glasses of the same colour as the green and red sealed pattern glasses of the Royal Na , y , should be generally adopted .
12 .
That in case of judicial inquiries as to collisions or accidents , witnesses giving evidence as to the nature or position of coloured signals or lights should be themselves tested for colour- and form-vision .
April 28 , 1892 .
( i::\igned ) RAYLEIGH , Cltair111a11 .
Report of the Commi"ttee on Colour- Vision .
283 The reasons on which the Committee have based these recommendations are set forth in the following pages .
The subject of .
colour-sense a~d _its ~mperfections !
s one Introductory , which is necessarily of great scientific mterest : but 1t also has a practical importance , as it affects a definite proportion of the men who are engaged in the two great industries of railway traffic and of navigation .
Amongst railway men , at least , if not also amongst sailors , a suspicion has been excited that the methods adopted for testing coloursense are not entirely trustworthy , and have had the effect of excluding some individuals from employments , the duties of which they were well qualified to discharge .
On this ground alone , if on no other , it has seemed advisable to the Committee that the reasons for their recommendations should be so stated aH to be intelligible , as far as possible , to all those who are interested in the matter .
Every colour , and among colours for convenience sake are included black and white , can be defined by three qualities :-1st , its hue-thus we talk of red , green , violet ; 2nd , its purity , or the measure of its freedom from admixture with white-which is expressed by such terms a'3 " deep " or " pale ; " and 3rd , its brightness or luminosity-thus we say a colour is " bright , " or " dark .
" Two colours are identical only when they can he defined as possessing the same three colour qualities , or constants as they are called , and if they differ in any one they are no longer the same .
When two objects are compared together for colour , the large majority of persons will agree as t~ their identity or difference .
Their verbal descriptions of the ~ifferei:ice may vary slightly , but practical tests show that 1~ ~-eah~y they recognize the same variations , and hence their y1s1on 1s termed normal vision .
There is , however , not an mco~siderable minority , as will presently be shown , whose perception of colour differs very widely from that of the majority , and , for want of a better term , members of this minority are call~d " colom\#183 ; -blind .
" By this term it is not intended to convey the idea .t~at there is absolute insensibility of vision , or even of colou~-v1s10n , but merely that the ordinary distinction between ce~tam colours is defective The variations in the amount of ~his deficioucy in colour-perception are numerous , and when smalJ , are often exceedingly difficult to classify .
f \\ e have to regard these deviations from 11ormal vision more l'C'.1~1 a prar.tical than from a theoretical standpoint , and in i~~tmg for th ?
m we have to take the broad view that the colour1 mdness which has to be detected is that which may be dange ; tu : ; to the public in the industries already mentioned .
f here .
:u\#183 ; ii 1- ; ome few people who fail to distinguish blue Character of ~o , n gn !
eu , and others , equally few , who only see in mono- co~our~ t'Hi~(~ , hut the eolour-blindness which is most common , and , blmdness . .
iero ; ~ro , most dangerous , is the so-called red-_q1\#183 ; even blindness , ni w Heh there is a failure to distinguish between red and 284 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vtsion , green ; that is to say , a re~-gr~en blind p~rson will regt.nl , .
certain hue of green as identical m colour with some hue cl : another of green as identical with w~ite , and some will fail to see red at all of another particular hue .
When considered that on our railways white , green , and red lights .
used as safety and danger signals at night , and that the ._ colours are not unfrequently used for a similar purpose by _ , .
it is very obvious that to place persons who are red-green bliid in positions where the colours ought to be correctly recognill !
!d may be the cause of disasters .
The same objection to the empl( , y. meant of persons with defective colour-vision applies also to navigation , for at night the presence of a green or red fightun the port or starboard side indicates the course that a vessel is taking , and if either those in charge , or on the look-out , are colour-blind , serious risks of collisions are run .
J\gt ; escriptionof It is proposed to enter somewhat minutely into the the spectrum .
characteristics of red-green blindness , showing how it may be divided into two species .
For this purpose it is nece881ey to appeal to the spectrum .
When a thin slice of whire light falls on one or more prisms , or on what is known as a diffraction grating , it is decomposed into a parti-coloured band which we call the spectrum , the principal colours , as giYen by Newton , being red , orange , yellow , green , blue , indigo and violet .
If the light be that from the sun innumerable black lines will be seen interrupting this series of colours , some more marked than others .
It is found that these lines always occupy the same position as regards the colour in which they are Rituatedt and hence the more pronounced ones will act to the spectrum as milestones do to a road .
Different coloured rays have different lengths of undulations in the all-pervading medium which is Called ether , and the wave lengths of the coloured rayH which , if present , would occupy the place of the principal black lines have , notwithstanding their minuteness , been determined with extreme accuracy , and this enables the position of any particular hue of spectrum colour to be numerically fixed by a reference_ to the wave lengths of these lines .
We have said that the pnn\#183 ; cipal spectrum colours are those stated above , but it must be understood that they are only fully recognized by persons possessing normal vision ; for the spectrum would be described by a colour-blind person in very different terms .
For instance , some red-green blind would say that the red , orange , and yellow were all yellow ; red would be described aB\#183 ; dar_k yellow , orange as less dark , and yellow as bright yellow , whilst the green part of the spectrum bordering on the yellow would be described as yellow diluted with white .
In the pure green would be pointed out a white or grey band , and the bl~egreen would be described as blue diluted with white ; whilst the blue would be called light blue , and the violet dark .h !
ue ( see No. 2 , Plate I ) .
Others , again , whilst similarly dPscnbrng the blue and violet part of the spectrum would substitute green ... .
z c , i 0 z , , ; 0 z .
, ; 0 z lO 0 z Repo1\#183 ; t of the Co1mnittee on Colom\#183 ; - Vi"sion .
285 for yellow in the ab\lt ; ;\gt ; ve description of red , orange , yellow , and yellow-green , the brrghtest red would be called dark green , and they would fail to see at all in the extreme red , the ~pectrum being shortened .
~hese latter ~ould al~o .
recognize a white or grey baud , but 1t would be m a pos1t10n rather nearer the blue of the spectrum than in the first case ( see Xo .
3 , Plate I ) .
It is needless to say that to normal vision this white or grey band is non-existent , and whenever a person under examination sees such a band the evidence is conclusive that he is colour-blind .
These differing descriptions of the ~pectrnm show that this form of colour-blindness may be \lt ; lidded into two classes , which for convenience sake may Le termed green- and red-blindness .
Another point of difference b11tween them is the part of the spectrum that appears brightest .
To the normal eye it is the yellow , and to the g-reen-blind it is nearly at the same place , but to the redblind it is the greeu .
This , perhaps , may give a clue to the designation of the spectrum colours by these two classes .
To the green-blind , red and yellow are the same colour , but the yellow being the brighter he looks on red as degraded 01\#183 ; darkened yellow .
On the other hand , to the red-blind green is brighter than yellow or orange , and these appear as degraded green .
Experiment has shown that every colour in nature , as seen by a normal eye , can be expressed as a mixture of three , so that normal vi : : ; ion is tri-chromatic .
In a similar sense the more prmvmnced types of ordinary colour-blind vision are di-chromatic .
The~e colour relations must be regarded as purely subjective , for enough is vow known of the nature of light to exclude the p\lt ; is , iiLility of a three-fold physical constitution .
In the theory of Young , sub , ,equently , and independently , brought forward and di\gt ; Y_e)oped by Ilelmholtz , light is supposed to be capable of exe1tmg three distinct primary sensations , combined in varying proportion , ; , and dependent upon the quality of the light .
As to th~ character of the three sensations , Young identified them ; \'Jth re~l , green , and violet ; and no widely-differing choice h po !
'l1 , nbl0 , unless upon the supposition that the primary SPW ; ation~ , in their purity , are quite outside the range of fur e~penence .
The yellow of the spectruw , for example , cannot \#183 ; ~ 1 , runary , for it is capable of being matched by a suitable ~ !
,1x~u~e of_ red ~ud g:reen .
According to this view each primary \#183 ; :ewmtiou 1s excited m some degree by almost every ray of the ~1:ectrm~ ; ~mt the maxima occur at different places , and the st111.11~lation m each case diminishes in both directions , as the position of maximum is receded from .
The YoungHelmholtz theory of colour-vision .
286 Report of the Committee on Colour-Vision .
The lines with the letters B , C , D , \amp ; c. , below the curves indicate certain fixed lines in the solar spectrum whose wave-lengths have been determined .
The different degrees of the stimulation given to each of the three sensations by every part of the spectrum is shown in the diagram by the heights of the curves above the horizontal base line .
Thus in the middle of the spectrum , near E , each of the curves is to be found of a different height , and these degre('R of stimulation of the three sensations , combined together , give the sensation of spectral green .
It may be remarked that , on the scale adopted , the three sensations are supposed to he equally stimulated when white light is perceived .
The areas of the three curves are therefore equal , and at the places in the spectrum where the curves are of the same height , the stimulation of the sensations is also the same .
At the extreme red and extreme violet of the spectrum the curves of the red and violet sensations are alone to be found , hence at those parts the sen'4a\#183 ; tions are simple .
According to this theory , the two types of complete red-green\#183 ; blindness are attributed to the absence of either the red , or el~e of t):ie green sensation , the abseuce of the former corresponding to r~d-blindness , and of the latter to green-blindness .
Wh~re the v10let and green curves cut , the red-blind person will ser what to him is white , and where the red and violet cm\#183 ; ~\#183 ; es cut the green-blind will also similarly describe his seusatwn of colour .
T~ the normal eye these parts of the sp('.ctrum a_ppear as blmsh-green and green , as there i : : ; a stimul~t10n of the green and violet sensations , or of the green ::t1 ' !
1\lt ; ' over 3:nd above that necessary to produce with the red Ren , ; atwn the mixed sensat10n of white .
Repo1\#183 ; t of t !
te Committee on Colou1\#183 ; - Vision .
287 In considering the question as to how far red-green blindness can be rc-o\#183 ; arded as a mei\#183 ; e deficiency in colour-perception , it is important bto be~r Jn mind that , according to recent obser-:ation , cousiderahle deviat10ns from the normal type may occur without any approach to colour-blindness .
If ~e imagin~ a di-chromatic system be derived from a~ abn_orm~l tn~chromatic sy~tem by th_e suppre , ; sio ' : of one ~ensat10n , 1t will differ from a di-chr ?
~atic sp ; tem similarly ~enved from a nor~1al system o~ colour-vis10n .
B !
indneRs to v10let , and shortenmg of the v10let end of the Violet colour.~ pectrum , have been described , but the instances are very few .
blindness .
One case of apparent violet-blindness of which the Committee have cognisance answers accurately to the Young-Helmholtz theory , on the supposition that the violet sensation is absent ( set ~ o. 4 , Plato I ) .
Three other cases of congenital colour-blindness investigaied hy the Committee deserve special mention ; two ( brothers ) in \Yhich there was but one sensation , answering probably to the violet .
t-ensation of the You11g-Ilelmholtz theory , and the third in which the principal sensation was a pure green with perception of white and probably a slight trace of red .
As these were all cm , es of congenital colour-blindness , they are mentioned as in some measure confirming the theory in question ( see Note a ) .
.Auother theory , that of Heriug , starts from the observation that Hering 's when we examine our own sensations of light we find that theory o_f .
\lt ; .:ertain of these seem to be quite distinct in na1ure from each colour-nswn .
other , so that each iR something sui generis , whereas we easily recognise all other colour sensations as various mixtures of these .
Thus , the sensation of red and the sensation of yelluw are to us quite distinct : we do not recog\#183 ; nise anything co111m(m to the two ; but orange is obviously a mixture of red and yellow .
Green and blue are equally distinct from each o~her and from red and yellow , but in Yiolet and purple we recogmse a mixture of red and blue .
, i\Thite again is quite distinct from all the colours in the Harrower sense of that word , and blark_ which we must accept as a seusatiou , as au affection of con:- ; cHm:- ; uess , even if we regard it as the absence of sensation frolll the field of vision , is again distinct from everything else .
he 11 ce the sensations , cam , ed by different kinds of light or by the abenre of light , which thus appear to us distinct , and which we may R !
J\lt ; \gt ; akof as " native " or " fundamental " seusatious are white , Lhlf:k .
red , yellow .
green , blue .
Each of these seem ; to us to have rnitl1iug in common , with any of the others , whereas i1 , all ott:~r.coloms we can recognise a mixture of two or more of these .
f l lu , i result of common experieuce sugg-ests the idea that these un~lam\lt ; \#183 ; 11tal Rensations are the primary sensations , concerning wlnr\#183 ; h. we .
aru inquiring .
And Ilering 's theory attempts to reconcilP , 111 so11ie snch \#183 ; way as follows the various facts of 1'1(JUJ'-Yi.~iun with the supposition that ' we pos~ess these , ; ix t ; " 'dan , e_ntal sensations .
Tho six i : ; ensatium , readily fall into iree pairn , the members of each pair hn.viug analog\#183 ; ous relations 288 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
to each other .
In each pair the one colour is complementary t the other \#183 ; w bite to black , red to green , and yellow to blue .
0 Now , i~ the chemical chan~es undergone by living\#183 ; substance~ we may recognise two mam_ phases , an .
~pward constructiv~ phase in which matter prev10usly not hvmg becomes liviug and a downward destructirn ph_a~e in which living matte ; breaks down into dead or less hvmg\#183 ; matter .
Adopting thi , view we may , on the one hand , suppose that rays of light differing in their wave-l~ngt~,.may affeet the chemical _change ; of the visual substance m different .
w_ay~ , some promotmg constructive changes ( changes of a_ss1~:111~ati~m)_ , others promoting destructive changes ( changeR of d1ss1m1lat10n ; ; and on the other hand , that the different changes in the visual substance may give rise to different sensations .
\Ve may , for instance , suppose that there exists in the retina a visual substance of such a kind that when rays of lio-ht of certai11 wave-lengths the longer ones for instance of the ~ed side of the spectrum-fall upon it , dissimila ti ve changes are induced or encouraged , while assimilative changes are similarly promoted by the incideuce of rays of other wave-lengths , the shortn ones of the blue side .
But , it must be remembered , that in dealing with : , ; eusations it is difficult to determine what part of the apparatus causes them ; we may accordingly extend the above view to the whole visual apparatus , central as well as .
peripheral , and suppose that when rnys of a certain wave-le11gth fall upon the retina , they in : : ; ome way or other , in Rome part or other of the visual apparatus , induce or promote dissimilativ11 changes and so give rise to a sensation of a certain kind , , rhile rays of another wave-length similarly induce or promote a~similative changes and \amp ; ogive rise to a sensation of a different kind .
The hypothesis of Hearing applies this view to the six fundamental sensation:- ; spoken of above , and supposes that each of the three \#181 ; airs is the outcome of a particular set of dissimilative aed assimilative clian ; , !
, 'es .
lt supposes the existence of what we may call a red-green visual substance , of such a nature that so long as dissimilative and assimilative changes are in equilibrimn , we experience 110 sensation , but that when dissimilative cha11g-es are increased , we experience a sensation of ( fundamental ) red .
and when assimilative changes are increased we experience II sensation of ( fundamental ) green .
A similar yellow-blue , isual substance is supposed to furuisli , through dissimilative changes , a yellow , through assimilative chang\#183 ; es a blue sensation ; am !
a white- black visual substance similarly provides for a \lt ; lissimilative sensation of white and an assimilative sensation of black .
The two members of each pair are therefore not only complementary but also antagonistic .
Further , these substances are supposed tu l ?
e of such a kind that while the white-black substance is influenced m the same way , though in different degrees , by rays along ~h ?
whole rang@ of the spectrum , the two other substances are d1flmently influenced by rays of differeut wave-length .
Thus , in tho part of Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
289 the spectrum which we call red , the rays rrom~te great dis~imilative changes of the red- , green substance with comparatively slight effect on the yellow-blue substanr.e ; hence our sensation of red .
' ' : ?
1 ' ' I I I I I I I I I Yb w I - I I ~/ '~ , , , .
... .
r ... , , ' I\~ / , , \ ~ ~ \#183 ; -- \gt ; \lt ; _ , ,. .
, " ' , , , , , / ... ... - - r , r ... " '~ 1 r , r .- .
... .
" ' " r ' " '\I " ' ' " " 11 j " I ... .
I " " -:-- , .
' \ j II ... .
, , , ... .._I..-- " ._ , LI X X V B a y 0 R The vertical shading represents the red and green , and the horizontal shading the yellow and blue , antagonistic pairs of sensations .
The thick line indicates the curve of the white sensation .
In that part of the spectrum which we call yellow the rays effect great dissimilative changes of the yellow-blue substance , but their action on the red-~reen substance does not lead to an exf'ess of either dissimilation or assimilation , this substance being neutral to them ; hence our sensation of yellow .
The green rays , ag\#183 ; ain , promote assimilation of the red-green substance , leaviug th~ as8irnilation of the yellow-blue substance equal to its dissimilat1on ; and similarly blue rays cause assimilation of the yellowh , 1_ue substance , and leave the red-green substance neutral_ hnally , at the extreme blue end of the spectrum , the rays once lnvr~ provoke dissimilation of the red-green substance , and by arll !
mg red to Llue give violet .
When orange rays fall on the rct111a , there is an excess of dissimilation of both the red-green au~ he yellow-blue substance ; when greenish-blue rays are perCel\ \#183 ; ed there is an excess of assimilation of both these substances ; a ?
tl _ o~he~ intermediate hues correspond to varying degrees of tlisKnrulation or assimilation of the several visual substances .
Whn1 all the rays too-ether fall on the retiJJa the red-green t1d_ ~ellow-blue suhstanc~s remain in equilibriu~ , \m~ t~e whiteJlack subRtnnco undergoes great chauges of diss1m1lat10n ; and W( , say the light is white .
L\r-cordi11g\#183 ; lo this theory what are called red and green blinduess :im identical .
The yellow-blue and white-black sensations .
remam , but the red-green sensation is absent in both .
The white Colour-blindness caused by disease .
Statistics of colour-blindness .
290 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
or grey seen in the spectrum would then be due to the white .
black sensation , as it alone is stimulated at that point. .
( See ~ote b. ) The kinds of colour-blindness so far alluded ~o are the congenital types , but there is a~~ther fotm of colou !
-blmdness which is iuduced by disease or lllJury .
The former is apparently by far the most common , and so far as we have ascertained , is incurable but the latter may be induced at any period of life , and in very many cases is capable of improvement or cure .
Colour-blindness induced by disease or injury exhibits dis tinctive features of its own , which are not present in cases of congenital colour-blindness .
It is usually confined to the central region of the retina , and the extent of the diseased area varies largely .
Defective form-vision is an invariable accompaniment , and it can be usually diagnosed by the recognized tests .
( For these tests see Appendix VI .
) In several cases induced by excessive use of tobacco , as also in that induced by progressive atrophy of the optic nerve , the Committee have found in examinations made with the spectrum that the sensations of white and blue alone were perceived in the central portions of the retina .
The blue seen corresponded with the blue region of the spectrum , and all other colours were described as white .
In other cases , a faint yellow in the yellow portion of the spectrum was perceived together with the blue and white , as in the first-named cases ( see No. 5 , Plate I ) .
That these sensations were rightly descriued is to be assumed from the fact that these persons when in health have normal vision , and also , that on healthy portions of the retina all colours stimulate the normal sensations .
( See Appendix 0 .
) The earlier statistics of defective colour-sense must be dismissed as untrm ; tworthy , having been arrived at by various , and frequently by inaccurate methods of examination , and having , on the whole , a marked tendency to error in the direction of excess .
The first on which reliance can be placed are probably those of Dr. Joy Jeffries , of Roston , U.S.A. , who personally examined 19,183 male persons , mostly in educational inetitutions , and who found amollg them 802 colour-blind , or 4\#183 ; 12 per cent. Among 14,764 females , he found only 11 cases , or 0\#183 ; 0084 per cent. In 1880 , the Ophthalmological Society of London appointed a Committee to inquire into the subject , and they fouud that amongst 14,8,16 males , 617 or 4\#183 ; 16 per cent. were colour-~li_nd .
Amongst 489 females , 0\#183 ; 4 per cent. were defective in colour-v1s1011 The report of this Committee is contained in the first volume of the " Transactions " of the Society , and an extract from it will be found in Appendix I. The Committee were furnished with some statistics regarding colour-blindness in two Japanese regiments .
Out of 1,200 meu examined , 19 were red-blind , 10 green-blind , 12 incompletely colour-blind , and 27 had weak colour-vision .
This gives 3\#183 ; 4 ------ ~ Without deciding between these two theories , it bas been found con\#183 ; vement to accept the terminology of the Young-Helmholtz theory .
Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
291 per cent. of soldiers who were colour-defective , without including those who are classed as having weak colour-vision .
The above statistics all point to the prevalence of colour-blindness amongst the male population , and to the fact that such defects are not confined to one nationality or race .
The small percentage of colour-blindness found amongst women is remarkablP , but as it does not enter into the questions on which the Committee have to report , it need not be fnrther dwelt upon .
The Committee have already briefly alluded to the mistakes Results and which congenitally colour-blind people are likely to make ; but in dangers of order to emphasize it , they will enter rather more fully into the ~1~0 ; r subject .
In the first place , let it be remembered that to the red- m ness .
blind and to the green-blind there is one green in the spectrum which they ca11not distinguish from white , and which for conYenience may be designated as their neutral colour .
On the one side of this neutral band they see but green or reel , more or less diluted with their neutral colour , and on the other side blue , also similarly diluted .
The dilution increases as the neutral point is approached , and for some little distance on each side of it ( unless a comparison with white he at hand ) the dilution is so large that the colour may be mistaken for the neutral colour .
As all colours in nature , except purples , can be matched by the normal eye with so\#183 ; me one spectrum colour ( which we may call tho dominant coloiw ) more or less diluted with white light , we can , where the dominant spectrum colour of a signal is known , indicate in the terms used by a person possessing normal vision what each class of colour-bliod would see .
Perhaps this is best shown as a tabulated statement:- Colour of Signal .
Red .
.To a Red-Blind Observer .
Green .
--------- , ------ ____ , Green , the dominant spectrum grecu beina on the red side of the 0 neutral band .
---------1 Green mixed with a large Jiroportion of neutral colour .
Green , the dominant spec- Neutral colour .
trum green being at the neutral band of the redblind .
--------- To a Green-Blind Observer .
Red .
Red mixed with tL large proportion of neutral colour .
Red mixed with a very large proportion of neutral colour .
Green , tho dominant spectrum green being at the rwutral band of the gree11-blind .
Blue mixed with a very N cutrnl colour .
largo proportion of neutral colour .
Gre , ,n , the do~ninant~ Blue .mixed with a truru green being well large proportion of on the bluo side of tho neutral colour .
neutral band , ---------1 White .
Noutral colour .
Blue mixed with a large proportion of neutral colour .
----------Neutral colou , \#183 ; .
292 Report of the Committee on Colour- \#189 ; sion .
The neutral colour on the Young-Helmholtz theory in the case of the red-blind , would be a peacock-green , and in that of th green-blind a purple .
e The tabl~ shows that a signal ~xhibiting certain.hues of green might be mIStaken for a red one , smce they both rrught appear to the one class green and to the other red ; and that with one hue of green ( differin~ slightly .in the two cases , howev~r ) it would giv ; the s11me sensatwn as white .
In only one case , viz. , that in which the dominant spectrum colour to the normal-eyed is well on the blue side of the neutral points , would the signa.ls be distinctly different in colour .
Colours of The following table gives the wave-length in the spectrum of the r~ilway ~ dominant colours of the signals which have been adopted by some sigual glasses .
of the principal railway companies when illuminated by ( 1st ) a light of the whiteness of the arc electric light , which does not differ much from that of day-light , and ( 2nd ) by gas-light .
The percentage of white light mixed with the spectrum colour is also shown , together with the luminosity of the light transmitted .
How closely the green signals approach to the neutral points of the completely colour-blind , when the mental standard of whiteness is that of daylight , can be well judged if it be remembered that these points lie between 5,200 and 4,900 for both types ( see Note c , page 304 ) .
Electric light .
Gaslight .
- ~Domi- Glass .
nant Per- Lumi- Per- Lumi- wave- Domilength centRge nosity , nant centage nosity , of white naked of white naked in ten light in light wa.ve- light in light millionths colour .
= 100 .
length .
colour .
= 100 .
of million ( ?
) { Gre , t W~t , rn rnby .-:S glass ... ... ... .
6250 7 10\#183 ; 4 6275 12 13 \#183 ; l ~ L.B.S.C. , , ... ... ... 6200 0 10\#183 ; 4 6200 0 13'0 Great Northern ... .
6250 0 9\#183 ; 0 6275 0 10\#183 ; 0 r\lt ; h=t Western ... , 4925 46 21\#183 ; 8 5070 50 18 \#183 ; 1 L.B.S.C ... ... ... . .
4925 38 16\#183 ; 2 5050 34 12\#183 ; 5 Great Northern ... .
5100 61 19\#183 ; 2 5170 62 19-4 Great Eastern ... .
5000 54 15\#183 ; 0 5120 40 15\#183 ; 0 rJ Saxby and Farmer 's , ~ ~ as ordinarily sup6\#183 ; 9 ; : : !
) I plied where no 24 7\#183 ; 6 5050 22 special glass is or- I I dered ) ; Bottle green glass }5500 32 9\#183 ; 1 5320 50 10\#183 ; 6 L ( District Railway ) In a testing-room , when signal lights are used as tests , colourb~ ind persons may :possibly be able , with practice , to name tl~e different coloured signals correctly , recognizing them by their Report of the Committee on Colow\#183 ; - Vision .
293 relative brightness , an~ by the~r dilution _w~th neutral colour .
Thu ; ; , a bluish-green signal .
might be .
d1s~metl.r known .
by its blue hue , whilst if yellow~sh-gree ; 1 , 1t m1~ht be recogmzed by the neutral colour being slightly tmged with the only other spectrum colour which they see .
Again , a green whose hue , whether pure or diluted with white , accurately coincides with that part of the spectrum where the neutral band is situated , might probably _be 1:1isLaken _for white , th_oug_h , even from tl !
at , it micrht be distmgu1shed by its lower lummos1ty .
The practical tests the Committee have carried out confirm this view ; men who are absolutely colour-blind having passed such a test without being detected .
It might be supposed that if the culonni of signals could be rightly recognized in the testingroom they would be equally well recognized elsewhere .
It must , however , be recollected that the atmospheric conditions of the testing-room are often very different from those which are found outside .
As a rule any judgment of the colour of a signal which depended upon its brightness would be fallacious .
A dirty glass , or a misty atmosphere , would introduce a liability to error .
The red signal of danger might then be mistaken for the green or wl1ite signal of safety , and vice versct It must also be remembered that a signal light , as a rule , has no white lig\#183 ; ht adjacent to it with which to compare it , and thus a decisio11 as to whether a light is neutral , or slightly coloured , has to be arrived at under great disadvantages .
\Ve shall presently call attention to the conditions which regulate the choice of the colours to be used as signals ; here it is sufficient to say that , even if a green were used , whose dominant spectrum cu_lour lay on the blue side of the neutral bands , mistakes might still occur , more particularly in certain conditions of foggy W(.ath:r , when white light in its paRsage is deprived of the blue rays 111 greater proportion than the green , and the green in greater proportion than the red ( see Note d , pnge 305 ) .
We have so far c011fined our attention to colour-blind vision Description of o_f the diehromatic type .
Inwmplete colour-blindness is less incomplete likely to lead to accident than that which is complete ; but any co_lourcolonrblindness , in which there is approximately a neutral or blmtlness .
g~\#183 ; ~y point in the spectrum , should be regarded with great sus1n_rwr , .
On the other hand , there are many people who have a shg-htly shorteued spectrum , who are yet able to distinguish ail coloul 's , and see no neutral point .
These cannot be considered 1f be prnctically colour-blind .
There are again others to whom ~1 ' .
; ~p~ct_rum is considerably shortened , but not to the extent , at it , 11:l Ill complete n. ; d-bliudness , and they have what is ap1 ; areBtly_ a i:cutral point in the spectrum , lying very close to t iat winch 1s found in the complete colour-blind cases .
The \r~scn\lt ; :e \lt ; ~f 1his neutral colour points to such a degree of im~:~~ P:~1'.J~ m co~our _sense that it must be ?
l_assed as danger\lt ; ?usty 1 cti\e , A certam and prompt recogmt10n of a grPen signal co our by these last would undoubtedly be difficult under some 29-i Report of the Committee on Colour- Vi11ion conditions of atmosphere , or if the mind were disturbed by soin . .
t \lt ; l e 1mmmen anger . . . .
Colour-blind- In colour-blinduess , _induced by disease or lDJury , although the ness induced loss of colour sense 1s usually confiued to a small area of th by disease .
ret ina , yet , as it is the cen~ral area , and therefore the part 0~ which the image of small obJects naturally falls , tl~e dani ) ; er of mi , ; taking a colour is as grertt , and even m\lt ; ;\gt ; r~ so t ?
an m congenital colour-blindness ; for loss of cnlour-sense 1s m this case as already bas been stated accompanied by loss of form-sense .
c~Iour-blind On the general grounds that have been explained , the Com. persons should be rejected for certain occupations .
mittee are of opinion that it would , under any circumstances be dangerous to trust the reading of signals to anyone who i ; totally or even partially colour-blind to the extent i111licated above , and this opinion is fortified by practical tests which they have carried out .
They consider that such a person under no circumstances should be allowed to take a post for which this defect renders him physically unfit , and with this object in riew the tests employed in the examination should be of a nature to at once detect , not only pronounced colour-blindness but defective colour-vision of the above character .
:Most suitable On some railways white lights instead of green have been used colours for as safety signals , but the former are liable to be confouncll.d with signals , and other white lights which are not signals , more particularly in the causes which d modify their neighbourhood of towns .
At sea the evi ence shows that the 83Iection .
use of a second coloured light in addition to a red is a necessity , and that a white light could not be substituted for it .
It has been suggested , on theoretical grounds , that all danger of misreading signals would be avoided by using- for oue a red and for the other a pure blue , as each of these colours is recognized by the red-green blind .
Certain difficulties , lwwem\#183 ; , present themselves in practice which preclude the employment of the blue , more especially for night signals .
The desiderata for signals are , that they should be as bright r , s possible , and that their colour should be distinct when viewed at a dista11ce .
A red glass transmits about 10 per cent. of the luminosity of the lamp-light behind it ; it is also a saturated colour , and appears unaltered in hue from whatever distance it my bo viewed .
A blue glass , as ordinarily met with , will appear pnrple , or even whitish , by lamp-light , as it transmits , beside\gt ; \lt ; blnP , a larg-e proportion of red rays , and , if it be pale , it " ill also transmit a variable quantity of all the colours of the sped rum : moreover , the luminosity of the light transmitted j , - , at the best , only some 4 per cent. of tlw naked light .
If two glasses , one of blue-green and another of cobalt blne , be placed torrth~r .
in front of the lig\#183 ; ht , the red rays will be cut off , and the\#183 ; light will he a fairly pure blue , but the lumino\amp ; ity will be reduced to ab'.mt 2 pe r cent. when the effect of foggy w eaLher on tho carryn::gpower of different lights is considered ( see Note a , pagt\gt ; :3( 1~ ) , it will be understood how this small luminosity will he ag:am diminished , and that it will become practically nil .
Iu makingReport of the Committee on Colom\#183 ; - Vision .
295 the selection of signal colours , these facts have to be taken into accmmt .
The choice of a red light as a signal light is one in which theory and practice really agree , and it is in the selection of a colour for a second signal that the difficulty arises .
The only colour for the latter , which the red-green blind would be able with certainty to distinguish from the red , is the pure blue , and this has been shown to be an impracticable choice .
This being the case , the second Rignal should be of the kind most suitable for normal colour-vision without regard to the requirements of those who are colour-defective .
Evidently for carrying power it should be as near the brightest part of the spectrnm as possible , but far enough away from the red to render the Rignals easily distinguishable .
A yellow or greenish-yellow i\gt ; ' inadmissible , are it might be mistaken for a white light under some circumstances , as is also the case with those greens which , when sufficiently light to be effective , allow some red rays to pasR .
It is for rea !
-OilS such as these that most railway companies hay Colours for adopted as a danger signal a rich ruby-red , and for a safety signals signal ( where a white light is not used ) a blue-green , which ad_opted by varies slightly in hue on differe11t lines , as was shown in the railw , iys .
table given at page 292 .
The i ; :ealed pattern standards of red and green glasses used in S_ta ndard the Hoyal :Navy are the best that have come before the Com- s1gna~ glasses mittee , and they suggest their adoption both for railways and 1 ' .
; ed m Royal the mercantile marine .
The sealed pattern gree11 inclines to blue :Navy .
and cuts off all red light .
The blue-green of the spectrum , when mixed with about 25 per cent. of white light , match s the hue of thiH g-Jass , and owing to this comparatiVl~ly small dilution it will also appear as a fairly saturated colour .
Its luminosity also approaches that of the standard red light , which is very desirable .
The direct evidence before the Committee is not sufficient to Accidents enable them to say that accidents , either by land or by water , through ha 1 \#183 ; 1 b d d f \#183 ; l \#183 ; \#183 ; 1. .
colour- ' ve cone nsive y even trace to e ective co our-v1s10n , yet tuIS bl " 1 by no meaus disproves the high probability that accidents have m e ness .
rPally occurred from such defects.* There can be no doubt that ever .
; : colour-blind person employed afloat , or upon railways , in certam ~apacities , must of necessity be a source of danger to the public .
As is kuown , colour-blindness is hereditary to a large extent , and we have it in evidence before us that in the tiaining\#183 ; vessels in which the orphan children of sailors are ,3dncated there are about 4 per cent. of colour-blind boys .
, Ye may .
therefore take it , apart from all other evicl e uce , that a comnclerable number of the fathers of these orphans who were emplnye\lt ; l are sailors must have suffered from the same defect ; an , l we ham it in direct evidence that a consiclerable number of eolour-blind people , officers and seamen , are actually at sea at D .
I_n lh\#183 ; .
Joy Jeffries ' book on " Colour-blinclnrss ; .
its Dangers and its t cte,.twn , " tho case of the loss of the " Isaac Bell " is fairlv conclusively r~cd.ed tn eolour-blincluc , s. OthPr casl'~ are mentioned in l\1r .
Bickerto1/ s ev1 ente .
VOL. LI .
Board of 'L'rade tests for colourVISlOil .
2~)(.i Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
the present time . .
Allowing f~r those whose colour-vision has been found defective by the madequate tests used , and who may not be afloat , it is certain that out of the 120,000 seamen who are employed , there must be a large number who a~e colour .
defective , and consec1uen~ly a sourc~ of dang_er to hfe .
The statistics of the exammat10ns of eyesight on ratlwa_ is , so far a8 they have come before the Committee , are eminently unsati , .
factory .
.Although candidates for employment are occasionally rejected for defective colour-vision , yet the percentages of th\#183 ; e rejections on different railways differ widely from each other and from the average percentage of colour-blindness of the mal~ population .
The evidence taken on this subject points to these differences being .
due to the variation in efficiency of the tests employed , and the Committee have been forced to the conclusion that some men , whose vision is defective for colour and for form , are in all likelihood employed in positions where normal visiuu is eRsential for public safety .
The evidence , moreover , points to the fact that stepR have not hitherto been taken ( at least , as a rule ) in judicial inquiries relating- to the causes of accidents , to ascertain whether they were due to defective vision .
The Committee are strongly of opinion that in cases of collision or accident , where the evidence is conflicting : as to the recognitivn of a coloured light , witnesses should be examined both for colour- and form-sense .
The Committee have had before them evidence regarding the colour-vision testing of the marine service as laid down by tht\gt ; Board of Trade .
Tests may be divided into two classes : one dependent upon the correct naming of a colour , and the other on its correct appreciation .
The first class are intended to combine with the detection of colour-blindness that of colour-ignorance , or the defective knowledge of the names of colours .
The last das~ are intended to detect colour-blindness alone , colour-ignorance being independently tested .
The tests which the Board of Trade have officially adopted , are described in Appendix II .
The examination consists in requiring the examinee to name correctly the colours of cards by day-light , and of \lt ; 'oloured glasses by lamp-light .
The correct naming of the colours is alone insisted upon .
N , Lming The Committee consider that the tests themselves and the colour ; , a th d f ] .
h \#183 ; 1 dl'fecti ; e test .
me_ , o_ o app ymg t em are necessan y open to very graw obJect10n .
The Board of Trade test cards and colour , :id glasses can be procured from dealer !
' , and the Committee have no llesitatiou in saying that the colours may be correctly named in the testing room by colour-blind persons after a certain amount of instrncti~ m , which would consist in teaching them to distinguish_ ~be different cards or test glasses by their different luminos1t1e~ .
The glasses are red , pink , three kinds of green , y~llnw .
neutral , standard blue , and pale blue , all of which are npwed by artificial light , usually that of an oil lamp .
In trials made Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on ColoU1"- Vision .
297 before the Committee , several people , wLom Ilolmgren 's test had proved to be colour-blind , passed t_his lantern_test , a ~act suffic_icnt to show that it is unsafe to trust to 1t .
But besides this uncertamty as to the rejection of the colour-blind , it appears ~o the Cm:1:1mittee that an injustice may also be done to the candidates by its use .
They believe that a perfectly normal-eyed person , who has been etlucated to observe colours , would not be able to speak positively a- .
; t.o the precise names of the colours of some of these glasses when illuminated by lamp-light .
Less educated candidates would be much more liable to make mistakes in thest:l puzzling tints ( which the Committee con~ider hav~ neither use nor significance ) , and , from sheer confus10n , to m1Sname those colours which are the only real tests , and thus to fail to pass the examination .
\#183 ; The only safeguard to a candidate thus rejected lies in the fact that he can be re-examined , and that more than once .
Cases have been brought before the Committee 's notice where a candidate who has failed at first has passed in a subsequent examination .
If the test for colour-blindness used by the Board of Trade were fair to the candidate , and perfectly efficient , such a re-examination would be unnecessary , and passing upon reexamination would be impossible . .
'l'hc evidence given by representatives of various railway Railway comcompanies shows that very few have any adequate system of panies ' tests .
testing .
Nearly all the methods employed are defective , and even where the wool-test is applied it usually breaks down from a choice of improper colours , both for standards and comparisons .
In some in , -tances , a person , whom the Committee know to have very defective colour-vision , has been passed in their presence by railway examiners as possessing normal eyesight , and the impression made on the Committee is that many have probably been passed into the service who should most certainly have been excluded .
The Committee have had the opportunity of examining the Tests in the different tests carried out by the Royal Navy , and are glad to Royal : N:wy .
find that they are most efficient , and of such a nature that it may be presumed that no one can pass them who is sufficiently defective in colour-vision to be any source of danger .
The long- periods over which the examination lasts , however , pre- \lt ; 'lt~des the adoption in their entirety of these tests used for 1::ul \~ays or the mercantile marine .
The sealed pattern glasses for fngnals arc excellent , and , as already stated , the Committee would suggest their adoption as the universal signal colour ; ; .
_The Committee are of opinion that the te , ; ts for colour- T ests for liluuln e:'-K should be of such a character that they will readily colo urdetennuw whether a man is or is not colour-blind , but that , except blmdne , s . !
.JI\#183 ; .
~r , im1tific purposes , it is not necessary that they should 111 \lt ; ll\lt ; 'ale what kind of mistakes he is likely to make .
The fact that a pen1on i s fouud to be colonr-blind by an efficient test , proper]:( ap[Jlied , is amply sufficient to show that his employment 111 cell.am occupations is a danger to the public .
'\Ve lay some x2 'l.'ests recommended by the Com-\#183 ; mittee .
Hol rn grcn ' s test .
298 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
stress ou this point , as , if it were required from the examiner that he should specify what would be the nature of a mistake that an examinee would be likely to make , it would open the door to controversy , and thus defeat the ends fo~\#183 ; which an examination is instituted .
What should be reqmred of the examiner is merely a statement that the candidate has either passed or failed in the exa !
llinatio~ .
In cases ot failure , whel'e the candidate is under the 1mpress10n that a mIStake has been made , an appeal to some properly appointed expert should be allowed , and his decision should be final .
The Committee have carefully considered the question as to what tests should be recommended for general adoption on railways and for the marine service .
They arc of opinion that tests which involve the naming of colours should be avoided in deciding the question of colonrblindness .
Failure to satisfy these tests may be due to colourignorance , and lead to the rejection of persona who are not really colour-blind .
A candidate who fails should be informed to what cause his failure is due , whether to colour-blindness or to colourignorance , with a view to subsequent re-examination in the latter case .
On the other hand , if the objects which the exami11ee b required to name are few in number and accessible to the public , since the chances are that no two of them are exactly alike even to a colour-blind person , he might be instructed as to the names which he is expected to give them , and thereby pert , ons who are really and seriously colour-blind might be passed by tht .
examiner as being free from any defect .
Besides trustworthiness , the tests should be adapted for the examination of lar:re bodies of men , and , provided efficiency be not sacrificed , they should be of an inexpensive nature .
After practical trials , and also from theoretical considerations , the Committee are of opinion that the simplest efficient test is the wool-test of Holmgren , applied either in the form which Holmgren himself recommends , or iu that of Jeaffreson , which is based on precisely the same principlPs .
A full description of Holmgren 's test , and of the proper methods of applying it , extracted from Holrngren 's work on the , subject , is given in Appendix III , page 375 .
It is most important that the standard test-colours should be of a proper character both as to hue and also as to dilution with white , the efficiency of the test depending almost entirely on a proper selection .
The Committee recommend that sealed pattems of all three test-colours should be kept by some central authority -such as the Board of Trade ; and that every set of teRt-wools should be officially _passed as fulfilling the necessary conditions as to these standard colours , and also as to the sufficieucy and variety of confusion colours .
The standar\lt ; l teRt-colours which have been approved by ~rofessor Holmgren have been referred to the spectrum .
The first ~taudard is a light green colour , which can be matched with a green m the spectrum ( ; \ 5660 ) , when 40 per cent. of white is added Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colon1\#183 ; - Vision .
299 The second standard skein is light purple or pink , and its complementary col~ur is a green iu the spectru~ ; \ , 51 ?
0 .
" :he colom is diluted with about 40 per cent. of wh1te .
'Ihe tbtrd tet:it-skein bas a colour corresponding with a red of the spectrum ( \ 6330 ) diluted with 18 per cent. of white .
Should an accident happen at any time to the standard sealed pattern skeius , the exact hues can be reproduced from the spectrum bra reference to the : ; e numbers .
The Committee cannot conceal from themselves the fact that the wools are apt to deteriorate with use , both by the constant handling and also , to some extent , by light .
In the test as carried ont by Holmgren there is but little doubt that almost as much information is conveyed to the examiner hy the way in which the different skeins are picked up to match the test-skein as by the absolute matching itself ; and this procedure involves handling them and also exposure to light .
The iu , sortment of wools which iR used in practical testing should therefore be renewed from time to time .
In Jeaffreso11 's form of this test , which is given in Appendix IV , , TPaffreson 's page 3U2 , the handling of the t:olours is avoided , the match being tc !
st\#183 ; made as there described .
The hesitation evinced by the colourLlind in matchiug the test-colour is , in this instrument , also , of great utility to the examiner ; moreover , it has beeu found practically that a " many , or even more persons cau be examined i11 a given tillle by it than Ly the original plan .
The Committee are therefore of opinion that this modification may be admitted if desired by the examiner .
These wool-tests will detect reel- , green- , and violet-blindness , and all other forms of congenital defective colour-vision .
The makbes of colour ; : ; will indicate to the examiner the character and ext-011t of the defect .
In caRes of appeal the examina1ionR should take a wider range .
Examination '.the test with the spectroscope is tlecisive , and iu .Appendix V. on appeal .
1s dc::wrihed a mothocl of applying it which the Committee think lllay lie convenient and satisfactory .
All tc : : ; ts in which the wools are suspencied from a bar , even 'l'ests to bP though the test-skeins may be of proper colour and tone , should avoided .
lie aYoided , since the order of arrangement might be ascertained by some means or another by those who are te\amp ; ted .
It is quite trne _that the order might he changed ; but in an examination of tlns character , where large numbers may be under trial , any frerpient cha11ging of the order would be impracLicable , and henc:c th~re would be no security that the test was efficient .
The same .
olJJection applies to all diagrams of colours which the exam1_nePs are rer1uired to match with standard colours .
Ooachiug here is ~ven more easily carried out than with the snspended Wools , s111cu tlw diagrams are in the market , and the tints cannot b(i chang-( ; \lt ; l in position . .
Th:'r'.i are some other efficient tests that are le1 : ; s adapted for Other tests .
exam111u1g\#183 ; large bodies of men than the wool-test'\gt ; , but which tuay Ii !
: well applied to demomitrate the presence of colour300 Report cf the Committee on Colour- Vision .
blindness in individual cases .
Those of Dr. Grossmann are a good example of this class o ! .
t_est .
An opinion _has been expre , ; sed , and with some plaus1b1hty , ~~at the only f~tr tests by which to prove that a man 's col~ur-vis10n renders him mifit to distinguish coloured lights or signals ar_e the coloured lights themselves when seen under the same circumstances as those under :which they would ha".e t~ be observed._ It has already been shown that , with practice , 1t may be possible for a coluurblind person to distinguish between colours by their different luminosities and dilution with white , but it has also been pointed out that such recognition would be rendered uncertain by differing states of the atmosphere and by other conditions .
lf it were possiple to eliminate the chances of correct guessing , which would be very large when using such tests , it would be uecessary that the examination should be a prolonged one , being repeated many times with differing conditions of weather .
If it were not carried to this extent , it might equally well be conducted in a testing room , where the apparent size of the signals to tLe eye could be imitated with great exactness .
But the uncertainty of this method , even when the variable factor of weather is absent , is exemplified by the results of the examination of railway employes at Swindon , conducted by the Committee .
They found , as already stated ( see Appendix VII ) , that several passed the lamp-test who had failed to pass the wool-test , and that snme passed one lamp-test , but failed to pass another similar one on the same occasion .
Had the examination of these men been to ascertain their fitness for certain employments requiring normal colour-vision , and been conducted by the lamp-test only , sume would have been admitted into the service , and have lieen a source of danger to the public .
Uolour-ignor- The Committee have had to consider whether what ha : : ; Leen ance .
called colour-ignorance , that is , ignorance as to the names of colours , is as objectionable as colour-blinduess for certain employments .
The possibility of the existence of real colourignorance , such as would lead to a non-recognition of the true colour of a signal , appeared to them very doubtful uu1il ~hey had taken the evidence of Staff-Surgeon Preston , RN .
; for 1t was hard to conceive of ignorance which would lead to confusion in naming a red , a green , and a white signal .
his .
eYiclence , hnwever , was conclusive of its existence at certain recruitingeentres , and more especially in a certain class of recruit .
It may be mentioned that in the actual testing of large bodies of men by the Committee , in no case was there a trace of colour\#183 ; ignorance exhibited by those possessing normal vision , unless in regard to nondescript colours .
Red , green , blue , and white were always correctly named , except where the person examined was proved to be colour-deficient .
There is one type of colour-ignorance which of course may uften be encountered ; a foreigner on board an Enn-lish-com\#183 ; manded vessel , would be , practically speaking , colour-ignorant if Report of the Committee on Colom\#183 ; - Vision .
301 he were unable to name the colours in English .
It is in evidence before us that in navigation it is often requisite that the look-out man shonld , without a moment 's delay , pass to the officer in charge the name of the colour of a light , and that hesitation , whether caused by true colour-ign , )rance or from want of knowledge of English terms , might involve disaster .
Thi , - being the case , the Uommittee are : : , trongly of opinion that for the marine services the examination for colour-vision should exclude not only men who are colour-blind within the limits Ignoran"e of already indicated , but also those who are colour-ignorant , whether the names of from defective educatiou or from want of knowledge of the signal coloms English !
HtllleS .
No man should be accepted as a look-out unless ~bould bl ' r he were found capable of naming the signal colours correctly n~ ; n~ emp oyand intelligibly , and without hesitation .
\#183 ; The testti which the Uommittee recommend for the detection Tests for of colour-ignorance are very simple .
After the tests for colour- ?
olourh !
indness have been satisfactorily passed it would suffice to ignorance .
ask the examinees to name the reds and greens of the wool-tests , and if any hesitation was evinced to test them with .
a lanterntest , such as that propo1 ; ecl by l\Ir .
Galton .
Men rejected for colour-ignorance of either type should not be considered permanently ineligible , but only until e ; uch time as tlrnir education in the snuject was perfected , for it must be recollected that , unlike colour-blindness , colour-ignorance is curable .
In the marine service , it appears tb at ou each stage of promotion RP-testinz in an officer is tested as to his coiour-vision .
On some railways also , the m9:rine on promotion , an employe 's eyesight is re-tested .
It does uot and _railway appear that such tests are uurlertaken with the idea that colour- :rnrvici-s .
blindness of the congenital type may have become more pro- 11'.Jtmced , or m:iy have induced it by disease , but rather with the \HJW thnt those who have been previously tested may have been pa ; ;serl improperly .
No doubt these re-examinations are a : ; afc~rnard ; bnt if the tes1 s already passed had been such as to rr~rnle !
\#183 ; _detection a certainty , there would ue no necessity for repetition except for the detection of such colour- blindness as may be due to disease , injury , or over-use of tobacco .
Colour-blindness due to these last causes is at first very seldom appreciated by the snff~rer , and is usually only discovered upon bis consulting a medical man for impaired form-s0nse .
This raises the question as_ to whether defective colour-sense other than congenital nught not , in some cases , be found in those on whom the lives of pas.1 , mn~ers and others depend .
Special fost , ; for colour-blindness induced by disease will very Tests for iar'..ly he neceRsary if , as should alwnys be the case , every exami- eolour- 11ation for ( \#183 ; .r , lour-visiun is preceded by one for form .
These latter ?
1rnclness tef'tS arp r-o wPll known , that the Committee do not think it neccs- ~ocluced by ary to Pnumerale the111 .
Tf a candidate is found to have defective isease .
~orm Yisior ! ?
f a pronounced type he certainly should be ineligible tor th\lt ; ; pos1t10ns of responsibility from which colour-blind persons \gt ; iliou !
,1 l\gt ; e exduded .
and tho test for form-vision would as a rule 302 Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
therefore exclude the colour-blind of this type ( see Appendix VJ ) It should be remarked that it is quit~ possi ?
le that the llolm : gren wool-test might be pas~ed sat1sfactonly by colour-blind people of this type , more part1cul_arly when _ the _diseased area is confined to a small central spot m the retm3 : ; m fact , this has happened twice in the presence of the Committee.* The Committee would therefore rely rat~ier .
o~ the form-test heing string~ntly carried out , than on 1~stitutmg another colour-test for this particular class of colour-blmdness .
Persons to be The qualification to be required from the examiners has received e 11trusted the careful consideration of the Committee .
An examiner both 1 ; ith examina- in the railway and in the marine services would be called upon t10n f 1 . .
b 1 \#183 ; to carry out not only the tests or co our-v1s10n ut a so those Periodic for form , and the Committee are of opinion that he shoulJ be required to obtain a certificate of competency from some duly constituted authority .
Testing , such as we have rPcommended , requires careful training , and is not to be learnt except by practice , for it requires not only a registration of absolute mistakes , but also a ready observation of the manner iu which the candidate acts whilst under examination .
The Committee would not insist upon the examiner being a medical prae1 itioner , but it is probable that a medical training would be of advantage .
They are further of opinion that there should be a periodic inspection of the different testing stations by duly qualified ophthalmic surgeons , who should report upon the condition of the testing appliances and upon the mode in which the tests are carried out ; and who might be the authorities to whom an appeal from a rejected candidate should be referred .
In no case should any test be allowed in subRtitution of those recommended , though supplementary tests might be tried if desired .
The passing or rejection of the candidates should always be based on the tests which have been laid down .
As colour-blindness of the congenital character is never e:rnmiuation .
acquired , it is unnecessary that any one who has already been examined for colour-vision by efficient tests should be re-examined .
But as tobacco-blindness is not uncommon , the form-sense of those men whose failure in 'lision would be dangerous to the safety of the public should be tested periorli- Persons to be exa111ined .
call_y , say , once every three years .
The Committee are not prepared to give a list of thor-:e posts from which the colour-blind should be excluded .
Pilots , look-oat men and officers on board ship ; engine-drivers , firemen and * Captain Abney prepared for the Committee pellets of baked clny of about \#190 ; inch diameter , coated with pigments in distemper of the same hurs ns those o~ the wools in the Hol_mgren test .
The images of these small pellets fill such a mrnute area of the retrna that those colour-blind persons were unnble to pick out from a small trayful of them correct matches to any of tho standard test colours , though they were perfectly able to pick out nil those col~ured with any shade of blue with ease .
As stated above , they pnss , \#183 ; d tho ordmary wool-test , the colours being readily distinguished outside the diseased central retinal area .
Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
303 sig\#183 ; nal-men on railways , evidently require sight unaffect~~ by defects in colour or form , and there may be other pos1t10ns , both in the marine service and in that of railways , which should also be included .
Some central authority should make a schedule of such positions .
and should take measures to enforce the exclusion of colour-blind persons from them .
~OTE ( a ) .
the cause of the different sensations which are conveyed to Cases of the braiu is a matter which is still in doubt .
It is difficult to 11bnormal conceirn that matter whicl1 is so comparatively gross as the rods colourand cones , which are situated on the retina can be affected by the blmclnes~ .
u ; erely mechanical action of the vibrations of ligl , t. The little wo know about the actual nature of sensations leads us rather to believe that the nervous processes which are the foundation of seusations are , like other nervous processes , the outcome of chemical changes in nervous substances .
And it has been suggested that vision originates in the chemical changes of a certain substance ( or substances ) in the retina , that the chemical condition of tliis subs.tance , which has been called visual substance , is especially affected by the incidence of light , and that the changes so induced determine the beginnings of visual impulses and thus of visual seusations .
" \iV e know that light can decompose a substance by acting on its molecules , and thns induce a chemical change in it .
Iu photographic processes , for instance , we know that the rnnlecules of the sellsitive substance are split up by white light , a1Jtl further , that when these comparatively simple substances n:e exposed to the spectrum , although it is found that a cons1dcrable extent of it produces chemical chang\#183 ; es , there is one particular part which acts more strongly than the rest of it .
'l he curve of sensitiveness exhibits the same characteristics afl !
l10Re of the colour sensations in the Young-Helmholtz theory .
~f it hP .
_conceded that the retinal substance acted upon by light 15 a_ nnxture of three analogous compouuds , each having a maxmaim sensitiveness at a different point of the spectrum , we '.:au account for the three fuutlamental sensation curves shown Ht the diagram at page 286 .
NOTE ( b ) .
Any r , omplete theory of colour-vision must account noL only fur normal visiou and cong-onital colour-blinduess , but also for those :\#183 ; a~c\#183 ; s of defective colour-s0n8e which are due to disease or uqury_ .
nnd wl , ich differ 80 widely in character from each other .
l ft 1 !
-J 80111\lt ; \gt ; what \lt ; lillicult to see how tho Young'-Helmholtz Difficulties of t ieory aceuuuts for the last species of colour-blind1JOSS .
Accord .
oceountiug 304 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
for colour- ing to this theory , the :mixe~ sen~atio ?
, S of red , g ; een , and ?
lindness violet produce the sens~t10n of ~bite hght ; bu~ endently in mducPd by the caseR where colour rn absent 1~ every part of the_ spectrum d ; sease bHy 1 1 , he except in the blue the rest bemg seen as wlute-some Young- em- \#183 ; \#183 ; \#183 ; d O \#183 ; " f \#183 ; holtz theory .
different explanat10n 1s reqm~e . .
r agam , 1 we take into Hcring\#183 ; s theory and colour-blinducss induced hy diAcase .
Shift of the neutral poin1 in tho spec1 nnn cn , i.1sed by difforcn t qualities of \#183 ; white light .
aceount the fact that at a certam d_1stance from the_centre of thp retin~ all sen~ation of colour , _ var~rng _aucordmg to 1t~ luminokity and its hue , 1s lost , though hg~t !
s sL1ll seen , the ordmary appli .
cation of the theory cannot be ms1sted upon .
It may seem that Hering 's theory is fully capable of explaining most of these phenomena , but there are facts against its acceptance which are very weighty .
For instance , according to this theory , the senRations of red and green , and of yellow and blue , oug\#183 ; ht always to be present together , but in some case~ of colour-blindness caused by over-use of tobacco , and atrophy of the optic nerve , the blne is the only colour sensation felt , the yellow being absent from that part of the .
spectrum in which it should be present .
Again , whf:ln the intensity of the light producing the spectrum is reduced the sensation of red disappears long before that of green , which shows that the two sensaiions are not always co-existent .
The shortened spectrum of what are called the red-blind is also opposed to the theory , for the luminosity of the green is proportionally much greater to them than the red than it is to the green-blind .
NOTE ( c ) .
The neutral point of the spectrum will vary in all c:1.0e~ of colour-blindness according to the whiteness of the light with which the Rpectrum is compared .
Even to the uormal eye there is a ray near the yellow which can match rnry closely indeed the light of a gas lamp or candle , though there is llone which matches the whiteness of ordinary day- or sull-light .
Now a match made by the normal eye of :1 coloured light with some ray of the spectrum will be equally a match to the colour-blind of either type , since in both the colour and its match in the spectrum the same one sensation will be absent .
It therefore follows that their neutral point , with a candle or oil lamp as a standard of whiteness , mmit be thP sa ?
ie yellow ray , but to the red-blind th.is ray would appear grcen,1sh if compared with the white of day-light , and to the grecn-blrnd reddish .
If the mental picture of white light were that of day-light , then evidently the green signal light would han , to be much bluer to the colour-blind than to the normal eye , to prnvent a confusion betweeu it and their neutral colour than would have to be the case when lamp-lia-ht is the mental image of white light .
In teRting a large nui1ber of men by lamplight it was invariably found that its light was always cail~1 !
yellow or orange by the normal-eyed , and we mn.y therefoie suppose that the general idea of whiteness is deriYcd frOn1 RPport of the Committee on ColoU ?
\#183 ; - Vision .
305 day-light .
As this is the case with the normal-~yed , it may be assumed that the same mental standard of whiteness would he adopted by the colour-blind .
NOTE ( d ) .
In discussing the most suitable colour of signals , the question Kffe~ t of fo ~ of the po:ssible alteration of hue by the interposition of fog c.n t , ,e colo m\#183 ; between them and the observer must be taken into account .
of , ignals .
There are w bite fogs and yellow fogs , the difference between the two being chiefly in the size of thP- particles of water , dust , or ~oot which are to be found in them .
In a white fog away from larg\lt ; ' towns the particles are chiefly water , but whilst t.be great majority must be large compared with the length of a wave of light , yet : : ; ome will be present which are very much smaller .
In a yellow fog\#183 ; the fine particleH are much more largely present , and the yellowness is largely due to this fact , for when particles , whose sizes are comparable to a wave-length of light , are present between thf1 source of light and the observer , the law of scattering requires that the blue part of the spectrum of the light reaching the latter should be much more enfeebled than the green , the green than the yellow , and the yellow than the red .
A blue-green signal glass \\ill therefore appear rather ltss blue in a white fog , and even yellowish-green in a yellow fog , and it may happen that the loss of what are blue and green to the normal eye will shift the colour of th e , ; ignal to the red side of the neutral point in the\#183 ; spectrum of each type of a colour-blind person , and then both red and green signals will appear of the same tint to him , though the latter will appear more diluted with the 11eutral coloul ' .
It follows therefore that in a fog the liability of tho colour-blind to mis-read ; ;ignals is very mnch greater tb:i.n in ordinary clear weather .
306 RPport of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
EVIDENCE TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE .
Evidence of Mr. IlANBURY , of the Metropolitan Railway .
In the engine department , the men are examined as to perception of colour before they c~n qualify for drivers , but i think not for porters .
If there is any doubt , we exnmine those engaged in traffic matters again , but not unless .
We examine with the wool test , which I have here .
" ~e place this ( a horizontal bar , from which were suspended skein 8 of wool about fifteen inches in length , and all bright colour~ ) on the table in front of the man to be examined , and ali : ; o a few skeins of wool , as an independent test .
\Ve a'lk the man what he understands by a danger signal ; he says " red , " naturally ; then I ask him what colour represents a caution Rignal ; he says " green .
" I say , can you find the colour representing the danger signal .
He looks , and perhaps picks out red ; if he hesitates at all in his first choice , we ask him if he is quite sure it represents the danger sigual .
He perhaps 1::1ays it does .
Then we ask as to the caution signal ; also test him with regard to the skeins of wool , and request him to pair or match the CL.lonr with a similar one on the frame ; and if them is any doubt .
" \#183 ; p ask him as to brown or blue .
Suppose he were to take this ( mauve ) , we should test him again .
I have not found many snd1 cases on the Metropolitan Railway .
Men sometimes mis-name the colours .
\Ve do not ask him the names of colours , but a.~k him to match them .
We also ask him to pick out the\#183 ; ' daug-er " or " caution " signal colour , and we sometimes ask for the best red .
We allow the man examined to make a minute exarniuation 11etween the colours .
I cannot tell exactly how many men we have personally examined in this way , but I started my t'Xami1t::.tio11s in 1869 , and have perhaps met with three cases of colonrblindness .
I cannot give an estimate as to the number examined .
the wool test is the first test which my Chief undertakee : , but when going on the footplate ( on the engine ) I examine them again myself .
Agricultural labourers as a rule answer the questions as to the colour of the signals correctly .
l ucwr heard of the engine drivers rejectiug the firemen , nor the ca~e of a man going colour-blind subsequently .
Question.-Do you have a certain proportion of men orer\#183 ; running the danger signal in a way which cannot be accouuttid for ?
-I know of the case of a man at King 's Cross passing ; the danger signal-an aged man-but I found his colour-sight good .
The positions of the coloured wools on the bar are not shifted .
the firemen are only tested once or twice as to colour , a_ud afterwards if promoted to be drivers .
We do not test , with la ; 11ps , nor as to alteration of colour by fogs .
W,.e test '.hern with regard to other colours than red and green if there 1:- an RepoTt of the Committee on Colou1'- Vision .
307 evidence of the necessity .
" \Ve explain that the red signal is a tlaiwer si()'nal , but we very seldom find a man ignorant of this , thiy gen~rally know something of the work .
There is no test with lamp , .
; , becans~ the glas~ which gives the g:e~n light is blue by day-light .
It 1s not a signal green glass , 1t 1s a blue glass L the o\#183 ; lass is peacock blue ] .
We test by day-light .
If we have 0green glass with the lamp we find it an indifferent light .
The glass we nsc with gas is of a very definite green .
ln caRe of hesitation , would you ask the man for some further examination , such as to pick out wool which was not far from a given colour ?
-vVe should not pass them if there w\#183 ; as any doubt .
If a man chose the wrong colour I should not think of passing him .
It rests with the examiner and not with :1 doctor to pass a man .
Oases have occurred where men have not be0n able to pasR the examiner 's sight test and have been ia ; ent to the doctor , who has given a certificate .
We have a sight test ; the test is with the single eye-one being covered ; also with both eyes uncovered .
W e do not test our men at nig\#183 ; ht as well as by day-lig-ht , further than already explained .
If accidents only happen at night , should they not be tested in that respect ?
-No , I think not .
" \Ve take it for granted if a man can tell red in day he can at night .
The OnAunIAN : Suppose that there were wools here , none of which matched that ( red ) exactly , but some nearly ; if you were to ask a man to pick out a near match , and he showed hesitation , would you regard him as suspicious ?
-If he picked out the neareRt , I .shonld consider he had answered correctly .
The picking out of an exact match does not prove that a man is uot colour-blind .
I have seen a man pick out brown , and eall it red .
Red represents the danger Rigual , green represents caution .
On the :Metropolitan Railway our siguals are so arranged that in the event of any breakage of the glass the white light is treatell as a clang\#183 ; er signal .
[ l\Ir .
Rix was hero called , and the witness applied the different tests to him , the questions being answered to the safo .
, faction of .Mr .
Hanbury , who remarked that :Mr .
Rix .
had goorl sight .
Ile waA , however , informed that that gentleman was co]our-hlincl .
Mr. Hanbury stated that they would pass hin1 on the Metropolitan Railway .
Mr. Rix was recalled , and his co]onr-blill(llless proved by Dr. Grossmann 's test .
] The CirAHL\IAN : Do you ever use Ilolmgren 's test ?
-I have never seen it .
l\lr .
Bm DENELL CARTER : If Mr. Rix were confronted with a fl\ngle ~ight he would not be able to tell which was green .
Ilis dehberat1011 shows he cannot do it in a moment ?
- I must admit that , \Ir !
{ ix being colour-blind is an eye-opener .
'\Ve haYe ahont f , OO 1nen engaged in machine work , or on the engines . !
\Ir .
l:1um1c'l !
is1.1 , UARTER : Could you let me test them at Romr~ t1111e by arrangcmcmt ; it , won]d not take long ?
-YeR , 1 sl~oul\lt ; l h11 very pleased to .
I do not think painters paintiug vanous colonl 's 011 the carriages and other things make mistakes 308 Repo1\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Visio1i .
e i1t colour .
If they did , it would be discovered during their apprenticeship .
( By Dr. PoLE ) : I do not know of any other railway usin blue instead of green glass .
I do know whether they use pur~ o-reen .
I have remarked that some glasses are bluer than others We call them a better green .
They are blue in daylight , but not by night .
( The Witness then withdrew .
) Evidence of Mr. 1lVADDEN , of the London and South Westen 1 Railway .
The men entering the service of om Company are testr1d when they first enter , and again when they are promoted to be firemen , and every second year after that ; and if dnri11 , .
one of these biennial periods a man is promoted to driver , h~ is specially tested then .
In the traffic department , every man is tested upon entering the service .
They are tested in this way .
I have brought the material in actual use for the purpose .
The ; e wools [ the wools consisted of browns , drabs , sombre greens , onr brighter green , and nondescript colours of very lowtoue J are placed upon a horizontal rod promiscuously , and the man asked to pick out three or four reds , blues , or greens , and if he makes au error in one of these , he is tested again with other colours .
~ , \ man may have a good notion of colours , and not know what to call them .
\Ve do not find they mistake red for green .
In ttddition to this test for the traffic department , in the locomotive department therr .
is a night test .
The room is darkened , and a box is fitted " \#183 ; ith a lamp at the back , and various coloured glasses are put in front , commencing with a small disc , perhaps the size of a pin 's head , and gradually increasing till we get to one the size of a sixpence , the mn , n being asked what colour he thinks is being shown to him .
He is ten or twelve feet from the lantern .
The smnlle , t disc is the size of a pin 's head , about one-eighth of an inch , or hardly as much , perhaps .
'lve find the men are not so ready with the night test : they are more accustomed to colours by daylight , and find it easier in daylight to distinguish the colour~ than at night .
These colours ( wools ) were provided by _our storekeeper .
I am not prepared to say uJ1der whose instru~t1011 .
Mr. BRUDENELL CARTER : Among these there is 11ot n s111gle red .
I should say they were selected by a colour-blintl person !
Capt. ABNEY : I am not colour-blind , but I should not know what to call some of these .
The WITNESS : Our locomotive foreman says many men foil iu green who do not in red .
I am told some men looked nt that ( green ) and called it red .
A further test is sometimes tried liy sending men to the Ophthalmic llospi1.al , where there is a tloubt , and I have been told that the hospital authorities confirmed onr examiuation .
This wool test is what we call the daylight test , Rcj\gt ; ort of the Cu1n1nittu on Culow\#183 ; - F ?
'.sion .
309 and the night test is with the 3:bsolute colours ?
f s)gnals .
V{ c give some puzzling colours at mght , one of which 1s an_ orange lio\#183 ; ht .
The tints are graduated , we only use 4 glasses , white , red , o\#183 ; ~een , and orange .
All the glasses are of the same intensity .
" \Ve do not try to imitate fogs , we simply have the lamp at the back of tho O'laRs , and the man in front ; the room being darkened .
I find lar~\#183 ; er lights are more easy to distinguish than smaller ones the Jirrht behind the coloured glass is 10 or 12 candle power .
It is not ~ISed with a bull 's eye ; it is a perfectly plain glass .
Our signals are with bull's-eyes , with plain glass in front for colours .
The plain glass is certainly a more severe test than with a bull'seyc , for l myself can see the flame through the colours .
Q , uestion.-If you look at the blue glasses in a lamp outside a chemist'i , : : ; hop , you often see the flame is red .
Might not a rni8takc he made somewhat in this way ?
-I think it might confuse men not accw::itome\lt ; l to artificial lights .
I think our test a Vflry :-evere one , and a large number of men fail to pass .
I could hardly Ray what percentage .
The diameter of the lights used on the lines i : ; about 6 inches .
The man can see these lights a mile away .
At 300 yartls with a 6-inch light across he could see to stop a train well .
I am speaking approximately , of course .
The test at 3 yards with the disc as large as a sixpence is about equal to the G-iucl1 light at the distance of 24 yards .
The rnau is wanted to see the latter at 300 yards , but we have the smaller light , which is perhaps only frth of an inch .
[ Mr. Rix , who is colour-blind , was here called and tested by the witness , who stated that be had passed to his satisfaction .
] " \Vitness explained that with the traffic men the question is not of such importance as with drivers and fireme11 , who are in charge of the train and mind the brakes ; the Hight of the traffic men is not tested so severely as the drivers and firemen .
[ Vlitness exhibited the specimens of the glasses actually in use in the signals and in the lamps ; also samples of the c\#183 ; oloured signal flags .
] l\Ir .
PmESTLEY S11uTH 's evideuce was to the following effect:-. .
.Ac !
J_uired Galow\#183 ; Blindness differs in one important respect from c:rnguntal Colour Blindness the congenital defect is often associated with a normal form-sense , while the acquired defect is r !
lways , or altnm , t always , associated with more or less loss of the !
Orm-sense ; that is to say , a man who has once had a normal col , mr-:- ; cnse canuot lo ; ;e it without losing more or loss of his l , n_-m-xmise .
( Leber has collected several snppo : ; od exceptions to 1lns ml~ , hut they arc not conclusive , and are doubted e , en by Leber l1unsclf .
'Graofe-Saemisch Hanel-Book , ' vol. v , p. 1037 .
) " Ill [ , ,,1 : , ting\#183 ; the visual function it is important to distinguiHh ~1'.'l WOPH the , \#183 ; entral and the more peripheral parts of the field .
I lit- :\#183 ; .-ntre of the retiiia- the 111:wnla lntea-is the part used iu l , ; tJlrnih\#183 ; nceurntely at a11y olljP.ct .
Tho ohjed i , ; seen with much 310 Repo1\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
greater precision when picture~ on th~s area !
h_an when pictured on any other part of the retma .
Colour-v1s1on becomes pro .
g-ressively less and less acute from the centre to the periphery of the retina .
" IIence , i11 considering defects of vision , it is important to dis .
tino\#183 ; uish between those which affect the centre of the field and tho~e which affect the more periphernl parts .
A defect i11volving the centre implies an impairment of colour-sense and of form .
sense at the point where they are most acute .
" The form-sen1\lt ; e at the macula lutea is tested by ascertaininrr what is the smallest type which can be mad at a given di ; tance-according to the principle laid down by Prof. Snellen .
( Snellen 's Test-types .
) \#183 ; " The colour sense at the rnacula is tested by holding a small colomed object on the end of a black wire or rod at a convenient distance in front of the patient , and moving it in such a way that its image moves across his retina from the periphery to the centre .
If there is a defect at the macula the colour , inste : Hl of appearing most intense at that part , appears less intern , e , or is lost altogether .
I commonly employ a circular piece of red sealing wax on the end of a wire .
I make the patient stand with his back to a window , cover one eye with his hand , and look straight at my forehead with the other .
Watching that he does not move his eye , I hold the red object before him at 30 or 40 degrees to one side of his line of vision .
I ask him the colour .
He says ' red .
' I try again at the other side , and abow , aml below the line of vision , with the same result .
I then move the object into his line of vision , and repeat the question .
lf his vision is impaired at the macula he says 'it looks l\gt ; rown , ' or 'dull , ' or ' dirty , ' or ' I ca n't see it at all .
' He has a ' central scotoma ' ; a central area of defective n : : ; wnan ' absolute scotoma ' if vision is entirely lost in this area ; a 'colour scotoma ' if the object is still perceived , but not its colour .
A saturated colour gives the clearest indications ; a pale colour is a more delicate test for slight defects , but rec1uiies better power of observation on the part of the patient .
Red is practically the most effective test .
" \Vhen red is lost , green is lost also .
Green is said to be lost before red .
I cannot : , ; \#181 ; rak positively of this from my own observation .
In order to test tlii~ point it would be necessary to choose a green and a red of preciselv equal intensity-i.e .
, of equal white-value . .
" Centntl Scotoma is caused by various affections of tho optic nerve , the choroid , and the retina .
I exhibit charts talwu from three cases of the kind , which show the position and extent of the affected area .
" Central Colour Scotoma due to excessive use of Tobacco , is oue of the commonest forms .
I hand in some statistics which , -how that this condition- known as tobacco amblyopia-coustit1~tes rathe~\#183 ; more that 1 per cent. of eye disorders in my own lwsp_1tal practice ; rather less that 1 per cent. in my pri:vate pract1ct\gt ; .
Report of the Committee on Colour- rision .
311 The scotoma has usually an oval shape , tho long axis being horizontal ; it includes the macula and extends as far as the optic disc .
" Persons who suffer in this way are usually what would be called heavy smokers , and they usually use st.rong tobacco .
In a large proportion of cases there has been some mental shock or depression as an additional cause .
The patient may have been a heaYy smoker for many years without apparent injury ; then his wife or child dies , or he loses money or employment ; sleep and appetite fail ?
his strength is reduced , and within a few weeks the tobaceo begms to take effect .
" Entire disuse of tobacco usually effects a great improvement of vision in a month or two , or even sooner ; complete recovery is not uncommon .
I do not know that tobacco amblyopia is commoner in seaport towns than in Birmingham .
Many sailors , smoke heavily , but their out-door life would probably ren_der them less liable than the less robust inhabitants of manufacturing towns .
" In relation to the present enquiry , tobacco amblyopia is probably the most important form of acquired colour defect , for it comes on insidiously , without known cause , without pain , and without other sign of illness ; it affects both eyes , and it does 11ot prevent tho man .
from doing rough labouring work .
The patients who come to us are often still occupied in rough work ; a clerk affected in like manner is quite unable to follow his occupation .
" 'fobacco amblyopia would prevent a man from recognising the colour of n , distant lamp .
Possibly he might recognise it by viewing it inuirectly , that is eccentrically , but as a matter of fact ~ think that such a man would always look directly at the lamp , :f he could still sec it at all , and would therefore fail to recognise its colour .
On the other hand he would recognise the colours of large surfaces , for the retinal pictures of these would extend ucy~md tho scotoma .
I think he would recognise the colours of 1 ; ke1us of wool , such as are used in testing the colour sense . .
" Persons suffering from tobacco amblyopia complain of bad ~1ght ; they never complain of being unable to see colours properly ; they are seldom aware that they have lost the power of seeing the colour of small objects , until the fact is pointed out to them .
" Peripheral and Eccentric Defects of Colour-sense are common .
They are prc : , ; eilt whenever the field of vision is contracted .
They may co-exist with normal vision for form and colonr at the cen11:e of tho retina , but in many cases central vision is impaired alsc .
Whereyer the defect be situated tho colour-sense and the formRense are impaired simultaneously , but the sense of colour is lost befor~ the sense of form .
Green is said to be lost first of all ; certamly green and red are lost before yellow and blue . .
" .Nc1 ' .
1\#183 ; 11sthc11ic Amblyopia is one of the conditions in which tlw vu , mal !
1eld coulracts , and the colour-sense is impaired or lost .
It o~ciu\#183 ; 1:1 Ill Jieri-ons suffering from nerve-exhaustion , hysteria , reflex \lt ; listurlia11ces , shock , \amp ; c. VOL. LI .
y 312 Report of the Committee on Colaw\#183 ; - Vision .
" The function is lowered throughout the whole of the field f viswn .
, .
'['he fields for white and the several co.lours ar:e contractid or abonshed. .
As regards area , th~ least active reg\#183 ; ~on , viz. , the periphery , fails first ; the most active , the centre , fails last .
\ .
, ~ regards colour-perception , the feeblest , viz. , that for green : is said to fail first ; the strongest , that for blue , last .
I have not tested the precise order in which the different colours are lo$t but I , have ascertained in some cases that blue and yellow ar~ still recognised when red and green are no longer recognised .
" These cases are characterised by undue proneness to fati !
!Ue of the visual function .
The field contracts while the eye is u1~er examination .
The test is made with the registering perimeter , The limit of the field is determined in each meridian in succession and on going round the field a second time , we find a furthei ' .
contraction in each meridian , and obtain a spiral line as seen iu the chart exhibited .
A blue glass placed before the eyes often enlarges the field and raises the acuteness of vision , presumably by cutting off the more exhausting rays .
( See ' Ophthalmic Review , ' May , 1884 .
) " The practical outcome of the foregoing appears to be that a man who has once been found to have normal form-sense and normal colour-sense , need not be re-tested for colour so long a~ his form-sense remains normal ; that is to say , if at any future time he can still read the normal line of Suellen 's types , he is certainly not suffering from any acquired defect of colour-sense at the centre of the retina .
Year .
l880 EYE DEP ARTMENT.-QUEEN'S HOSPl1.'AL , Statistics of Tobacco Amblyopia .
Out Patients .
Tobacco .A.mblyopia .
Percentage .
\#183 ; .
293 4 1\#183 ; 70 357 4 1\#183 ; 12 43 !
) 5 l\#183 ; U 574 2 \#183 ; 35 6'4'0 6 \#183 ; 89 1,037 13 1\#183 ; 25 1,581 14 \#183 ; 88 1,72~ !
29 l\#183 ; GS 1,770 17 \#183 ; 96 2,004 29 1 \#183 ; 44 2,197 29 1\#183 ; 36 -- 12,644 152 - 1\#183 ; 20'/ o Last 1,500 Private Patients .
1,520 13 \#183 ; 85'/ .
Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colow\#183 ; - Esion .
313 Evidence of 1\Ir .
BAllIBRIDGE , Senior Examiner of the Midland Railway .
Every applicant for employment , and every servant of the Company on promotion , is examined as to their eyesight .
the apparatus used is that which I show .
The tests employed are Dr. \\ ' .
Thompson 's tests , consisting of a series of skeins suspended over a bar , and numbered with numbers which have reference to the rolour .
Three test skein8 are used as standard skeins , the fir : : , i a blue-green , the second a rose colour , and the third an ordinary scarlet .
A candidate i8 required to match with the first test skein the skeins on the suspended bar , which comprise greens , greys , drabs , pinks , slate colour , and other colours corresponding to Holmgren 's colours .
( The tests were practically carried out after the Ilolmgren method .
) The tm ; ts are carried out .
by daylight , though gaslight tests are sometimes employed .
Doubtful cases are re-tested by Ilolmgren 's plan .
This method of testing has been in force for eight or nine years ; before that the Army test was employed .
The witness belie , ed that the method now employed was very perfect .
Should a signalman fall ill he is always tested Lefore he is allowed to rejoin his post with the ordinary signals .
In reference to colour-blindness produced by disease , he never saw a man who passed once fail on a further examination .
\#183 ; It is quite possible that a man may fail in the wool test who rightly reads signals .
The gaslight test takes place in a covered corriclor with green and red lights ; but , in addition to this test of 8ignalmen , the wool test must also be passed .
The position of tho skeius of wool on the bar is not altered , and in case of doubt as to collusion tho Holmgren test is adopted .
About 2\#188 ; per cent. of the whole who are examined fail .
Sometimes a man my be allowed a second chance of examination if it appears that be fails through ignorance , but he never found that practice enabled a really colour-blind person to pass in a second PXalllinatio11 .
A man is always examineJ .
for colour-blindness after an ausenGo due to an accident in case any alteration in his colour-vi:oion should have occurred .
As before said , a man is te : ; tec.l at every Htago of promotion , and every applicant has to cume to D\lt ; ffl\gt ; y for this purpose .
, Vith the aid of assistants , but under the witness 's personal supervision , between 1,500 and 1,000 candidates for employment arc examined each year , and in all : !
,500 if old hands are included .
Candidates are also examined for form , as in the Army test .
The method i : ; by means of dots separa_ted l , y intervals equal to their diameters .
A ~h ; ;ta11t .
signal is often three-quarters of a mile away from !
ho s1g-nal hux , and the signalman has to eeo if the arm works llt t_he \lt ; lat tillle , or if the proper light is shown at night .
Au e_ni.nne \lt ; lrivr-r must see a sign,11 abouL half-a-mile off in order 1 not he may stop his train if necessary .
, \Titness never heard of a \lt ; \#183 ; asr ; ''.f au \lt ; '11g\#183 ; i11e driver reporting a fireman for want of colour I~n\#183 ; qlL !
011 .
Casc\gt ; s have been heard of in which the colour of light , has liP\lt ; .n 111istaken , and in such cases tho man would be at y 2 314 Repo1\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Fi8ion .
once suspended until he we1:e re-tested .
A~ter a candidate has been tested at the office , he 1s sent to a medical man , and it has occurred that he has rejected a man who bas passed the test In such a case the man is tested for colour at the offi ce again .
and if he again passes , which he always does , he is not rejectel !
for colour defect .
All testing is done ~nder the\#183 ; immediate supervision cf the witness .
Should a candidate show a slowness in selecting colours to match the test skeins , he would be reported as hesitating , and though the defect in vision might be triflincr he would be considered as unsuitable for an engine driver or r ; i a signal man .
Of the two tests , the witness preferred the heap ( Holmgren'R ) test as the better , but it took longer to carry out than the bar ( Thompson 's ) test , the latter only occupying a couple of minutes for each candidate .
The witness examined Mr. Rix , who is colom-hlin\lt ; l , for l1is colour perceptions , and said he Rhould not have passed l1im .
Il e gave the following table of statistics to the Committee : Statistics respecting Colour-Blind Pers ons .
Number Number found half-year ending of Candidates to have Imper- Percentag e feet Colour Examined .
Perception .
June , 188-t 722 20 2\#183 ; 77 Dec. , , , 1,01 !
) 39 3\#183 ; 82 Jm1e , 1885 551 17 3\#183 ; 08 Dec. , .
, 922 37 4\#183 ; 01 , Tune .
1886 557 8 1 \#183 ; .rn Dec. , , .
521 12 2\#183 ; 30 June , 1887 642 10 1 \#183 ; 5 ; .
Dec. , " 520 12 2 \#183 ; :3o June , 1888 625 2 0 \#183 ; 32 Dec. , . .
726 13 1\#183 ; 7 !
1 June , 1889 637 6 o\#183 ; ul Dec. , , , 1 ,035 19 1\#183 ; 8:l Average per annum . .
1,413 32\#183 ; 5 2\#183 ; 18 Evidence of Mr. T. H. BICKERTON , of Liverpool .
I do not know that I have got mueh more to say than I ha\'C are ady said in my pamphlets , although a few new facts hare \'.Orne under my observation .
The ma~n point I have bad in writing these pamphlets ha~ been .
t~ pomt out to the Board of Trade in particular , and to tlir .
public m ge1.1eral , the great dangers incurred by the ernplo):i~1ent of colour-blmd n::en , and of defective-sighted men , in po:-1t10u~ Report of the Committee on Coloiw- " Jl7sion .
315 where the correct interpretation of coloured lights is essential to the safe navigation of vessels .
I have shown , and I think conclusively , the great difficulty there has been in the past in getting the Board of Trade to reco\lt ; rnise these dangers , and that when at last they did recognise the 0dangers , they instituted methods of testing for colourhlindness which are not efficient , this being shown by the facts that these said methods , while they in very many cases allow colour-blind men to pass , in some cases cause the rejection of rnf 'll as colour-blind who have a perfect colour sense .
I have also shown that while the methods of testing are inefficient for the purpose intended , viz. , the detection of colour-blindness , the regulations dealing with these colour-blind men when so detected are thoroughly bad .
Colour-blind officers are granted the higher certificate , which is simply endorsed " This officer has failed in colours ; " and the fact that he is colour-blind is no bar to his continuing in a responsible position .
In the case of men applying for a Second Mate\#183 ; s Certificate , it is true he does not now receive his certificate , but he is at liberty to continue his profession .
So far as the Board of Trade regulations go , colour-blind }Jilots , colour-blind " look-outs , " colour-blind A.B. 's , :md colour-blind apprentices are quite competent to assist in the navigation of ships , \#183 ; and may remain sailors to the encl of their days .
I believe that no regulations , however elaborate , with the object of preventing collisions at sea , and of preventing loss of life at sea , can be successful so long as men who have not g-ood distant sight , and men who are colour-blind , are tolerated in the Mercantile Marine .
.Again , improvement in the methods of tt\gt ; sting alone will not remedy the evils nor do away with the great hardships entailed on colour-blind men .
At the present time a compulsory colour-test is only applied to those men wishing to advance themselves , and thus it is only after years of labour that their defect is discovered .
To remedy the evils and the hardships , it is essential that a colour test be employed at the very commencement , and those who are colour-blind should he stopped before they begin the sea life .
At the present time then .
is no test , and of a total of 956 boys who were being t , roug\#183 ; ht up for the sea life on traiuing ships , I found thirty-tour who :vere colour-blind .
These were boys who were going to be s:ulors , and every sailor has responsibilities with regard to . .
lo , ik-out " lights , and I have proof that the large majority ( )I tl1\lt ; \gt ; se boys went to sea .
I am told that the captains of reformatory training ships are compelled to accept boys even Hue ; ?gh they know them to be colour-blind .
Ilic CnAumAN : Your first point is , that all these boys should 1 , e preventrnl frmn goin , , .
to sea ?
'l'I O .
1e \Yrnrnss : Yes .
The Board of Trade cannot settle this \lt ; pwstion by improving their tests unless they at the same time J\gt ; reveu~ colonr-Llind boys entering the Service \lt ; ' .
It seems to me the actwn of thu Board of Trade all through has been inexplicable 316 Repo1\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
At first they wonld not believe in the exi~tence of colour .
blindness ; then when the dangers of colour:blmdness could not be denied , they said the number of colour-blmd cases were very small ; and now they say j , he nui:nber o_f cases ar~ so niimerous that it would cause great hardship to nd th~ Ser:11ce of them all .
At the present moment no care whatever 1s talrnn to pre , ent colour-blind boys from being brought up to the sea life .
~ome three cir four years ago I examine~ the boys of t_he train !
ng 1ships Conivay , Akbar , Clarence , Indefatigable , an~ Clio , the first fo11 r ships being in the lliver Mersey , the latter m the }Ienai ~traitil .
On the Conway , out of 154 boys 2 were colour-blind .
One , aged 14 , had been on board two years ; the other , aged 13\#189 ; , had been there eighteen months .
Both were fond of the sea ; both were unaware of their defect ; and both , on their friendH l\gt ; eiuginformed of the matter , were removed from the ship .
Un the Akbar there were 4 colour-blind out of 148 boys ; ou the Indefatigable , 12 out of 238 ; on the Clarence , 7 out of 158 ; a1td on the Clio , 9 were colour-blind out of 258 on board .
On these five vessels , therefore , there were at the timP of my examination a total of thirty-four colour-blind boys being specially trained to a profession which they were physically and morally unfitted to enter .
In addition to these , of 200 boys in the Seamen 's Orphanage eight were colour-blind , antl it is purely a matter of chance whether the boys have gone to sea or not .
Question.-Do you know if there is any examination in the ca~e of the boys on the Britannia ?
The WITNESS : I do not , but I should think there i8 .
There is a careful examination as to form-vision , and they reject all boys who have not perfect vi : ; ion of both eyes .
Since the two colour-blind boys were disco .
, ,\#183 ; ered on the Conway , till ' Committee of that vessel have , I understand , iu , -isted that every boy joining the ship shall bring a certificate stating that he is not colour-blind .
I do not know if they are particular as to who gives the certificate .
Question.-Can you make any numerical statement as to persons on the seas whom you regard as unfit for their duties ?
The WITNESS : I am aware of ( a ) ele.en colour-blind meu who were bound apprentices , and who at the time I was cou : ; ulted had been at sea for periods varying\#183 ; from four and a half to right years ; ( b ) of four colour-blind able seamen whose ye:m , of service were respectively thirty-five years , twenty-one ye~r~ , t:velve years , fourth unknown ; ( c ) of seven ofiicern huld_mghlgh and responsible positions , the length of whose : : ; ernces were respectively twenty-six years , eleven years , six ye~rs , ten years , twenty years , twenty years , thirty years , makrng a total of twenty-two colour-blind sailors .
( In addition to these act~al_ sailors , tbere are the thirty-four colour-blind boys .
th_o maJonty of whom are now at sea unless they are deacl or le(t the service .
) Some were obliged ~ompulsorily to givo up then\#183 ; Report f !
f the Committee on Colour- Vision .
317 positions as officers owing to their being discharged by the owners .
, whether they have gone to sea in the employ of less particular companies , I cannot say .
I can only state positively that four of the twenty-two have not gone to sea .
One of these four is the case of Captain John Smith , whose case has been brought prominently before the notice of Sir Baden Powell , who wrote to Sir G. G. Stokes about the poor fellow .
The letter written by Capt. Smith , and published in the Shipping and Jfe1\#183 ; cantile Gazette and Lloyd 's List , dated 13th Augu~t , 1889 , explains itself:- " On the 19th of June you were good enough to in'lert in your Yaluable paper a letter written by me on colourblindness , and I am pleased to find that my letter and your article commenting on same has attracted considerable interest , notably by the Board of Trade .
My object in again troubling you is to impress upon the Board of .rrade the necessity for a more perfect means of testing sight .
I have lo , c:it my position as chief officer in the employ of one of the best and most influential firms in this port , in whose service I had been for a period of six and a half years , and with a near prospect of command , through not being able to conform to owners ' rule and produce a colour test certificate from their examiner , who , on the contrary , styled me colour-blind .
I , however , doubted the accuracy of the report , and pre : : ; ented myself to an oculist , but found , alas !
the Company 's examiner 's report too true .
Now , I call this a Yery painful case , after being thrice passed by the Board of Trade for Second , First , and Master 's Certificates .
If the Board of Trade examination on any of these occasions had been true , I would have directed my energies towards another way other than the sea to obtain my livelihood .
I may say that the defect in my vision has been , in the oculist 's opinion , there from birth .
I am now , morally and conscientiously , incapable of performing the duties of an officer on board ship at sea , though my Uertificate bears no endorsement of any kind by the Board of Trade .
.Many owners I know do not require their officers to pass the colour-blind test , being satisfied with the Board of Trade \lt ; 'ertificate .
But I should think my case ought to be a warning to shipowners not to place reliance on the present Board of Trade test .
My colour-blindness has destroyed my means of livelihood , i~uu I _fearlessly say that the Government test of sight is to blame for this .
[ am informed that I cannot claim compensation from the Board of Trade , because they have not interfered with my Cer~i~icate ; but , mppose l follow my avocation and get into colh~ion through my defect , what then ?
and who would be to blame ?
I am a young man of thirty-three , and I have a wife and fa_mily depending upon me , and my position at present is very chstl'es , ; inir .
The be : : ; t part of my life ( Capt. Smith has been at 8 P~ fur twenty years ) has been passed in useless toil .
My energ1m ; 3ncl prospects for the fuLure have been unrewarded and !
1lig-hted through no fault of my own , but through the lax and 11111Jerfcct way in which I was examined and passed in sight by 318 Report of t !
te Committee on Colour- Vision .
the test that was adopted by the Board of Trade throughout the wl1ole of my examinations .
" When I first saw this gentleman on May 11th , 1889 , a \\lore hearty man than he appeared could not be .
Ile had been getting \#163 ; 9 a month , and a bonus of \#163 ; 1 from his Company .
The Com. pany , on dismissing him from his ship , behaved very kiudly , giving him ~horo emplo } ' .
" meant at_ about \#163 ; 5 a month .
Bnt the loss of his\#183 ; situat10n , the bavmg to give up the sea , and the destruc .
tion of his hopes so preyed upon his mind and body , that in 11ay last he became the victim of acute phthisis , and died .
Up to the day of his dismissal he had not had a day 's illness , nor had be had occasion to consult a medical man .
The Board of Trade were well aware of the case , for on June 19th , after bis letter had appeared in the press , he was sent for by the Liverpool Board of Trade , and asked if he was the writer of the letter , and his object in writing it ; and , when be said it was in order to get .employment , he was t0ld to the effect that , as the Board of Trade had not interfered with his certificate , he had no claim upon them , and that if shipowners chose to make laws for themselYes .
it had nothing to do with them , and did not prevent him going again to sea , as he could go to other companies .
It must not L( .
thought tl1is is an isolated case .
It is now no uncommon thing in Liverpool to bear of officers being dismissed for colour .
blindness , : who have held , in some cases for years , lucrative and responsible appointments on board ship .
Everyone will atlmit the justice of these dismissals , for upon the correct colour.vision of the officer on watch depends the safety of the i : ; hip , and , in many cases , the lives of hundreds of helpless passengers1 and property to the extent of hundreds of thousands of pounds , but everyone will at the same time admit the hardship-nay more , the injustice-done these men by the use of bad GoYernment tests and regulations .
This brings me to another point , that many of the shipowners of Liverpool will not take a Board of " L'rade certificate now .
Up to the time I wrote my second pamphlet the Liverpool shipowners believed that the Board of 'l'rade certificate was a positive proof that an oflicer was not colourblind .
Now many of them refuse to take it .
They do not test the men themselves .
Many of them send their officers to metlical men or to opticians , or ask them to again go to the Board of Trade , and I may here mention that sailors have a con , c ; iderable objection to being tested by opticians ; and I have been told of a case where a sailor , on being rejected by a suro-eon attached to an Atlantic liner , remarked , he " did n't see why lie should not p ; o to sea , because a common ship 's doctor said he was colour\#183 ; blind .
" These men have the Board of Trade certificates already , but since I pointed out the defects in the Board of Trade Jests , many of the owners of the large Atlantic passeno\#183 ; er steamers insist on a re_-examinat~on of their officers ' colour-sight and form-sight .
I thmk there should be an efficient examination in tlrn first J[lstauce .
No improvement in the mode of testing can bo ; ;atisReport of the Committee on Colom\#183 ; - Vision .
319 factory unless it is applied at the threshold of the sailor 's career , and not as at present , when about to obtain the reward of his years of labour .
Before an apprentice or man be allowed to put his foot on board ship as a sailor , he should be compelled to produce to the Captain or Shipping O~erk a certificate of good colour-sio\#183 ; ht .
The matter enta !
ls no difficulty .
At the present time a s~lor is obliged to keep by him his various certificates of discharge , it would be no hardship for him to keep a colour certificate also .
The CnAIR~IAN : Ilow can we give a numerical yi ; , lue to your observations ?
You know of soYeral cases of officers who arc colour-blind , and are sailing the seas , to what extent can you gfre percentages ?
The \YrTNESS : It is difficult to do this , but we may presume that the percentage of congenital colour-blindness among sailors is the same as that among any other community of males , and by taking the average of the percentages given by three reliable authorities :Holmgren examined 32,165 men-1,019 colour-blind , 3\#183 ; 168 per cenL , Toy Jeffries , , 10,387 , , 431 4\#183 ; 149 , , London Com. , , 14,846 , , 617 4\#183 ; 156 , , this is found to be 3\#183 ; 824 .
By the census of 1881 , the number of 1- ; ailors in the Mercantile Marine Service in\#183 ; England was 95,093 ; in Scotland , 14,143 , and in Ireland , 10,886 ; making a total of 120,122 ; and this does not include such men as pilots , canal or lighter men .
Calculating 3\#183 ; 824 per cent. of this number to be colour-blind , we l1ave a total of 4,5~3 men holding at the present time positions in which the corre ct interpretation of coloured lights is essential .
I am not making allowanee for those rejected .
But I might call attention to the great variations in the Board of 'l'rade percentai- ; e ; :i of rejections , which render their report unreliable .
In tbP official report , published in February , 1885 , it is stated 123 men were colour-blind out of 21,720 examined , this g\#183 ; iving the percentage of \#183 ; 586 , and a careful study of this report will show that thirty-one out of eighty-five colour-blind men eventualiy WPre granted unendonmd licenses .
But the public attention ?
ailed to this question has raised the percentage , for we are told , Ill the report of 1888 , that between the months of January and ]\fay , 110 fewer than 320 sailors were examined by the Superintendent of the Mercantile :Marine , at Tilbury Docks , and among them sixteen , or five per cent. were found unable to discriminate reel a11d green in the degree requisite for safe ua , igation .
This l !
Crcentag\#183 ; e one may positively state is as ridiculously high as the tor1Uer rp~oted is ridiculously low .
Something therefore must be ''T ?
ug , either with the te ; :its themselves , or with the way iu wluch they :u-e apJJlied .
All who ham consulted me have done so on account of their colour-1 , liJHlness .
A very considerable number of these came to me Leeause they dicl not belieYe they were colour-blind .
Tho defect 320 Report of the Committee on Colow\#183 ; - Fiswn .
had been found out accidently , or owing to t~eir _being compelled by their employers to und~r9o a re-exam1~a~1on , as to their colour-vision by the Board of Trade _or by opticians .
I examined them for colour-blindness by all ordmary tests .
I use a good many , but Holmgren 's is the one that I trust fully I have not kept records of those who were not colour-blind .
but they were very few , for there could be no reason for a ma~ who was not colour-blind coming to see me .
I can , however remember two cases , and one of them whose case is full ) ' .
quoted in Pamphlet No. 2 , l ?
age 7 , shows cl_early that by the present Board of Trade testmg- a man who 1s not colour-blind may be , by their tests , rejected as colour-blind .
The OuAIRi\IAN : Taking an7 one_ company , can you fo1:111 any idea as to how many officers m their employ are colour-blmd ?
The \V IT : NESS : No , because I do not examine for any company .
but Dr. Hodgson , of Bootle , who examines for the Cunard Com : pany , told me he rejected five out of 120 officers in the employ of the Cunard Company for diseases of the eyes .
This company , long before the Board of Trade took up this matter of tho sailors ' eye-sight , recognised the grave responsibility restiug with them in the selection of men ( look-outs and officers ) for a dnty which they considered of paramount importance .
For this they deserve every credit , and it is no doubt oue reason of the freedom this company has had from disaster ( vide Pamphlet 3 , page 12 ) .
The CuA1m1AN : Have you details of the diseases of the .rejected men ?
The vVrrNESS : No , but the same doctor quoted the case of an officer who could not tell the colour of his ship 's funnels , and did not know that the fluid issuing from his nose on one occa~ion was blood , until told by the bystanders .
The CuAIIUIAN : The point you want to bring before 1 be Committee is that a test for colour-vision should be instituted at tho commencement ?
The \V ITNESS : Yes , at the very commencement , and those wh0 have not perfect colour sight , and also good distant sight , should not be allowed legally to enter the service at all .
The 0HAIR~1AN : You wish further to point out that thr methods of testing by the Board of Trade are wholly im ; ufiicieut ?
11he \V ITNESS : Yes .
The OnArnllIAN : And that although you are not able to make :i .
numerical statement , you are convinced there are many per:-uus now in the Mercantile Service who are colour-blind ?
The w ITNESS : yes .
The CrrAmMAN : There are a number of training institutions for the poor where destitnte boys are sent , I believe ?
The \\#165 ; 1TNESS : Yes ; the Indefatigable , Akbar , Clio , Clarence .
To the three latter vessels boys brought before mag\#183 ; istrate~ for _va\amp ; 'ran0y are sent with ?
ut any reference being made a~ to their litness for the sea life .
Everybody to be employed as Report of t !
te Committee on Colaw\#183 ; - Vision .
321 sailors , : : hold be examined as to their colour-vision .
I do not include firemen and stokers .
At the present time individual shipowners ham the men in their employ tested ; but this is of little arnil unless all men in every company are tested , for it takes two ships to make a collision .
The OnAIRJIIAN : Ilave you ever thought whether it is feasible by alteriHg the coloured signals , say by snl\gt ; stituting a flashing light a~ in the army , the dilliculty might l\gt ; e got over ?
The " rnNE$S : Yes , I lm , c thought of it , but I believe it to be impractical\gt ; le .
The shipping men themselves say so .
In this question of coloured light there is one eminent gentleman wlto hat:i , in my opinion , done much ltarm .
Admiral Colomb has been a great power in preYenting this subject of colour-blindness receiving the attention it deserves .
I haYc in Pamphlet 2 , page 11 , ghreu my reasons for believing\#183 ; the means recommended by " Select Committees for the Prevention of Loss of Life at Sea " are and must remain futile so long as the very essential of safety , uamely , perfect eyeE\lt ; ight on the part of officers and men , is ignored .
.ru.lmiral Colomb thinks differently , but , as I believe , wrongly , and I wonld have no hesitation in taking the popular vote on the point between us .
In the course of an able paper delivered by him on the subject of the ..W -ashington :Maritime Conference , at the Soc\#183 ; iety of Arts , and reported in 1'/ te Times of 1Iarch 28th , 1890 , he made the following remark : " As to the qualifications for officers and seamen , the Conference ( Washington ) dealt wholly with the question of colour-blindness on account of its clanger \#183 ; with reference to the red and green side lights .
Ile never knew himself a case of collision where colour-blindness was in question .
Tho statements were generally l ; Orfoctly clear that wrong helm was given deliberately in the lace of the colour seen , and as 110 authoritative teaching had existed to :c ; how that it mattered what colour was seen so long as danger was denoted , he had neYer been al\gt ; le to lay stress on the colour-blind question .
" \#183 ; Mr. Baden Powell , R.N.R. , who followed in debate declared " that in all ca1 : , es of collision at sea there was no default of the ~-~Je of the _road at sea , but they generally arose from negligence .
:lite ~ule of the road at sea was perfectly well underntood by u:telhgent men , and it was the 'lubbers ' and the careless who did not. .
act according to it .
" :'l.d)mral 110 Horsey considered " collisions at sea were caused prmc1pally by three faults-a bad look-out i0 \#183 ; norance of the rules , and rn~g\#183 ; lect of the rules .
' ' ' 0 I~1 .
hit ; i-eply Admiral Colomb " expressed his opinion that colhs10ns at_ night Of'curred through the helm being ported to the green light , and starboarded to the red ; and he could not agrer , that , tho collisions occurred wholly through negligence , f~r ho thoug\#183 ; ht that they largely occurred Locause onr seamen " Pm iwt , _taught what they should do , and the collisions occurred througl1 1g\#183 ; 11orauce .
' ' 322 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
Now I say that there are a nur:i , ber of well authenticated case where disaster due to colour-blmdness and to ~ef~ctive sigh~ actually occurred , or was narrowly averted ; and 1t 1s surprising Admiral Colomb does not know of then ; \#183 ; I would also ask whether Admiral Colomb knows of a smgle case out of the thousands that have occurred where , after collision , the colour sight of the officers and men was tested by a:i , expert .
Would it not \#183 ; be as well if Admiral Colomb were to eliminate this cause before denouncing it ?
One might have thought that , as in most shipping enquiries , the evidence as to the colour of the lights and as to the distance at which they were first seen , is bewildering in its contrariness , the first step towards a solution would be to examine on the spot the far sight and colour sirrht of the witness ; but those who adjudicate at these enqni~ies think differently , and take it for granted that the witnesses coming before them have perfect far sight and perfect colour sight .
It is my opinion that if the eyesight of sailors on colliding vessels were tested in Uourt , we should find that the cause was in many cases neither ignorance nor negligence , nor due to " lubbers , " but that it would be found in the colour-blindness or defective sight of the officers and men on watch .
Capt. ABNEY thought Admiral Colomb must have reali , ied the fact that there are mistakes as to the colours , and was a man very much open to conviction , and ready to adopt improvements , He could not think he was antagonistic to anything in the way of advance .
The WITNESS : In opposition to the opinion of these eminent gentlemen , I will quote the opinion , in which I fully agree , expressed by a gentleman who wrote to the Live1'pool Dail !
/ Post in the following terms : " Is it reasonable to believe that steady married seamen with families depending on them , and who have had years of experience , suddenly lose all judgment and common sense , and steer their ves_sels on clear nights , sometimes in broad daylight , so as .
to deliberately ram each other , thereby losing their lives and slups , and the lives of the passengers ?
Surely not .
In none of ~he other professions or callings can we find anything approachmg a parallel case ; therefore in some cases their eyesight must be defective .
" ' If Admiral Colomb would only take the trouble to exa~in personally a colour-blind officer , I feel sure that this :- ; u !
JJect would have in him a distinguished convert and an ahle and powerful advocate .
1:he CnAIRl1AN : IIave you any special evidence to give as to accidents ?
The WITNESS : Yes , in Pamphlets 1 2 and 3 I has related rn~n , v cases of accidents due both to colo~r-blindness and to defcctirl ' sight on the part of those in charge of the vessels .
'l'be Lircr\#183 ; pool Board of Trade use the ordinary Board of Trade tests .
Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
323 The CnAIRUAN : \#183 ; what authority has the Liverpool Board of Trade ?
Is it simply limited to Liverpool ?
The \YITNESS : Yes , the powers of the Central Board of Trade are given over to the Liverpool Board for Liverpool .
Question.-\ Will you give us your practical experience with regard to different methods of testing ?
The WITNESS : I have very little hesitation in saying that all tests recruiring a man to name colours are d~feC ; tive .
_Practically , that brings them down to Ilolmgren 's , wluch 1s the simplest , and , for i()"norant men , the best one .
I consider that test perfectly trust : orthy , and it has one great advantage-it can be applied irrespective of nationality .
The CnAIRi\IAN : As a matter of practical experience , about what time do you find it takes in using Holmgren 's test ?
The \VITNESS : I calculate about 40 boys an hour , or 100 girls in the same time .
The time taken depends a great deal npon the social standing of the children .
At Eton or Harrow it would be very different to that at reformatory schools , where perhaps only thirty boys could be examined in an hour , as they are so ignorant that a test has to be explained to them o , \#183 ; er and over again in order that ignorance may not be mistaken for colour-blindness .
I am acquainted with Professor Grossman 's test , and I think it a test for experimental purposes , but not for vractical use .
Captain Smith , of whom I have already spoken , pa. , sed it without difficulty .
He was examined by the Board of Trade card test and lanterns .
He was then asked by Sir George Powell to see Dr. Grossman , and Captain Smith told me he named the letters rightly .
I tested him on two or three occasions with Dr. Gro8sman 's test , and he never made a mistake .
Question .
-Did Dr. Grossman supply the test you used ?
The WuxEss : I got it from the optician from whom he said it might be obtained .
In many cases it would be difficult to reject with tl.tiR test , al1hough feeling sure the candidate was defective . .
\.n educated colour-blind man would get through .
There is also the disadrnntagc that it takes considerable time to apply .
The CuAml\lAN : \Vhat was the nature of Captain Smith 's colour-blindness ?
The \YITNES8 : I do not for the moment remember .
I do not fi~d the great distinction which is laid down between the different kmds of colour-blindness .
The one class appears to mu into the other .
I think different classes do exist , and in great number .
I hay n\lt ; ;it examined cases with regard to the shortening or non- : : ; hortenmg of the spectrum .
The CnAIICIIAN : You have no suggestion to make with regard to tests ?
The \~1TNESS : None , excepL that I pin my faith to IIolmgren 's test applrn , d !
1y an e ?
'pert examiner , and carried out according to 1 lolmgreu : : , mstructious .
324 Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
In connection with this test I should like to hand in a let which I received lately from lY~r .
Clem~nt E. Stret~ ?
n , C.E. , of th~ Associated Society of Locomotive Engmeers and l !
iremen : " 40 , Saxe-Coburg Street , " Leicester " December 2l ; t , 1889 .
" DEAR ~m , -I am ah:"ays_ glad to read a lett~r on the eye .
sight question , a~ I trust 1t will all lead to ~ometh1 ?
g being done to avoid that which may soon turn to 3 : st~1ke ~gaurnt ' dots and wool .
' In order to save the men their s1tuat10ns tho Railway Societies are having the men taught in wool shops with fir~t-ratii results .
' The present tests are useless for railway men , and very unfairly ap]Jlied when required to get rid of the men .
" The l , fechanicat ~Vorld and Invention of to-day each hay in1portant information upon the subject .
" I would strongly advise you to apply to Mr. Ilarfon1 , Hailway Smvants ' Society , 55 , Colebrooke Row , London , :X .
, for tho practical side of the question .
" Yours truly , " CLElVIENT E. STRETTO ) ; .
" The complaint which Mr. Stretton makes as to tho unfair way in which railway men are treated is no doubt grounded unjust cause , but he is in error \#183 ; when he attacks , as lie has ou many occasions done , IIolmgren 's test , which has with reaHon been accepted as a reliable one by those more competent to judge .
Tho " dot and wool " test of the Railway Companie- ; is not the wool test of Holmgren , and the fact , as stated by Mr. f-\trctton , viz. , that the railway men can be educated to pass the tesL is .
if any were required , positive proof that the test applied to tlwm is not Holmgren 's .
It would , howe , er , appear that there is cause to believe that the men are badly treated , as the following lettl !
l ' will show ; and until IIolmgren 's test becomes the oOicial te~t , and is applied hy those who understand its use , and who are 1_11 an independent position , the friction which is at preSl'Ht foll 1s likely to continue : " Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants , " Head Offices , 38G , City Road , London , " , l.farch , ISSi .
" DEAR Sm , -At the last Meeting- of tho Executive Comn !
ittt'e the testing of the eyesight of drivers , firemen , guard ; ; , s1gualmen , and other servants of the various Rail , yay Companies wa , considered , and from the facts submitted it was felt that the usual tes'ts were often most unfairly applied , more especially in the case of the older servants , and that , in consequence , mon wen : being reduced or removed from the service under the plea_ ot defective sight .
From this there being no appeal , the Exccutire Committee considered that the tests were beino- used EO 11~ lii C , Report of t !
te Committee on Colom\#183 ; - Vision .
325 give a pretext for getting rid of men , ~ , ho have gr ?
wn grey ~n the service , and whose lengthened experience and faithful servitude should entitle them to some consideration .
" In order , then , that men so tested may have the opinion of their fellow members as to whether their sight is defective , I am instructed to enclose you a card used for testing sight with which members may test each other , and in the event of the unfair tests beiiw used by the Companies ' officials , a reliable protest can then be 1~adc , backed up by the verdict of the branch , which would , of course , imbmit a11y member said to hay defective sig\#183 ; ht to the usual tests in order to satisfy itself , before expressing an opinion .
" Tt may also be found advantageous to fret7uently use it when no such cases require to be decided , so that members may be familiar with itR use , and so be prepared to undergo the examination wheneYer called upon .
" Printed instructions for using the card will be found on its back .
" I am , dear Sir , " Yours faithfully .
ED"\Y ARD HARFORD , " General Secretar.1J .
" To the Branch Secretary .
" The CnArn::1u:x : Ha Ye you any knowledge as to what the test was that was isimed \#183 ; with this circular ?
The \VrrNRSS : Yes , the ordinary railway test card , having printed on it tho small square dots and spaces , and the colours red , green , yellow , and blue ; and this t est is an absolutely useless oue .
Tho CnAIR::IIAN : You think it impossible to get a colour-blind through llolmgren 's test ?
The \Y ITNicSti : A congenital colour-blind .
Yes , impossible .
The CIIAIRJIIAN : Have you any special evidence to give as to accidents ?
The WITNESS : I have given cases in my pamphlets .
The first case is to be found in the Annual Report of the Supervising\#183 ; Int : ipector-General of Steam-boats , to the Secretary of the Treasury , dated \V ashiugton , 1880 , and reads as follows:- " On the the nig\#183 ; ht of the 5th July , 1875 , there was a collision nea , r Norfolk , Virginia , between the steam-tug\#183 ; Lumberman , anrl the steam-ship Isaac Bell , the former vessel bound to , and the lat~cr from , Norfolk .
The acciuent occurred about 9 p.m. on an or\lt ; lmary clear night under circumstances which , until recently , serm_ecl m_ore or less mysterious .
The master of the steamer and all 111s officers made oath that at the time signals were made to the tug , thn latter was from one to two points on the steamel"s starbu_a:cl Low , and consequently the steamer 's green light only was v1s1ble tu the a)_Jproaehing vessel .
Yet the master of the tu~ , whose statement was unsupported hy any other testimony , asserted that the steamer 's red light was exhibited and signalled 326 RPport of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
accordingly .
The discrepancy in the statement was so gre t that many persons uncharitably charged ~he master of the t : with being intoxicated , although no evidence was offered i~ support of the charge .
B ; y tb_is accide !
1t ten persons lost their Jives .
Upon a visual exammatwn_ of tb1~ offi_cer under the rules during the past sun~mer , and dnrmg which time the:e had been 110 question as to sight by the Sergeant o !
the Manne Ho~pital at Norfolk , he was found to be colour-blmd , two examinations having been accorded him , with an interval of ten days bct\\'een them .
" A second case is mentioued in the Shipping and .ilfercantile Gazette and Lloyd 's List , dated 29th June , 1881 : " The pilot of the City of Austin , which was lost in the harbour of Fernandia , Florida , last April , is proved to be colour .
blind .
In this way it would appear he mistook the buoys , and bis mistake cost the owners 200,000 dollars ( \#163 ; 40,000 ) .
.\n examination showed that at a distance of more than six feet he could not distinguish one colour from another .
The physicians attribute the defect to an excessive use of tobacco .
The sen-ices of the marine surgeons were tendered to the local authorities without fee two years ago , but were declined .
" A third case is recounted in a letter from Messrs. Macintyre \amp ; Co. , Liverpool , shipowners : " Our ship Carbet Castle collided in the South Channel , bound from Dundee to Cardiff , in 1879 , with the T. H. Ramien , due .
as far as we can make out , to the colour-blindness , or short-sightedness of the chief officer .
" The following account is written by Captain Coburn , who was for many years in the employ of Messrs. Leach , Harrison a11J Forwood , of Liverpool , and is to be found in the Jferca11tifo .1.lfarine R eporter , vol. xiv , No. 162 : " The steamer Neera was on a voyage from Liverpool to Alexandria .
One night , shortly after passing Gibraltar , at about 10.30 p.m. , I went on the bridge , which was then in charge of the third officer , a man of about 45 years of age , and who up to that time I had supposed to be a trustworthy officer , and compo\#183 ; tent in every way .
I walked up and down the bridge until about 11 p.m. , when the third officer almost simultaneously saw a lig\#183 ; ht about two points on the starboard bow .
I at once saw it , was a green light , and knew that no action was called for .
'l'o my surprise , the third officer called out to the man at the wlwel 'port , ' which he was about to do , when I countermanded the order , and told him to steady his helm , which he did , and we pa~~Prl the other steamer safely about half a mile apart .
I at oncfl asked the third officer why be had ported his helm to a green light on the starboard bow , but he insisted it was a red light .
which be had first s_ even .
I tried him repeatedly after this , and althoug(1 he sometimes gave a correct description of the colour of the light , he was as often incorrect , and it was evidently all guess , york .
On my return , I applied to have him removed from the slup , as Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
327 be was in my opinion , quite unfit to have charge of the deck at night , ~nd this application was granted .
After this ~ccurrence I always , when ~aking a. strange _officer to sea , rem_amed .
\lt ; ?n the bridge with him at mght u~t1l !
had te_sted his ability to distino-uish colours .
I cannot 1magme anythmg more dangerous , or mo~e likely to lead to fatal accidents than a colour-blind man on a steamer 's bridge .
" A similar experieuce is tlms related by Captain Heasley , of Li , erpool : " After passing through the Straits of Gibraltar , the second officer , who had charge of the deck , gave the order to ' port , ' much to my astonishment , for the lights to be seen about a point ou the starboard bow were a masthead and green light , but he maintained that it was a masthead and red , and not until both i-hips were nearly abreast , would he acknowledge his mistake .
I may add that during the rest of the voyage I never saw him making the same mistake .
.As a practical seaman , I consider a great many accidents arise from colour-blindness " In the collision which occurred in February , 1889 , between the i-teamship Nereid and the sailing-vessel Killochan , the vessels had had each other in sight for at least two miles , and it was a perfectly clear night .
The Times , in commenting on this disaster , remarlrn , February 5th ; 1889 , that " all inquiries respecting the \lt ; 'ause of disaster lead to the same conclusion , that it was due to one of those astounding errors of judgment on the part of one or other of the navigators , which seemed to deprive all attempts at reasonable excuse .
Each blames the other .
" As we know that there are many colour-blind men holding officer 's certificates , it will not be surprising if it were found that the oflicer in charge of the steamship Nereid was colour-blind .
The explanation of the accident would be similar to that first ( 1uoted , namely , that be mistook the green light for a red one , and ported in order to go , as he erroneously would think , astern of the Killocltan .
So long as colour-blind men are tolerated in the Mercantile Service , these accidents will occur .
Question.-But could not many of the people on board have HPen how these accidents occurred ? .
, Yes , and the evidence in these cases is always conflicting .
J\lt ; ;\\#183 ; erybody will remember the loss of the Oregon .
It was said t~ ba , -e been run into by a coal boat .
The evidence was contrarhctory , the light seen being described as white , red , and green .
But the idea of examining the men 's colour-sight was never tl:ought of .
In the following case the steamer Toronto on the 111gl~t _of .
January 18th , 1888 , ran down the Norwegian barque Frezdis m the Irish Channel ; oi1 which occasion thirteen Jives were lus~ .
the evidence given at the Board of Trade enquiry as ~o th~ lightA secu may be briefly summed up are follows :-'.]'he .aptam , the male , a11d the quartermaster saw first a red light nnd then a gi : even one .
The look-out man saw uo red li.rht only 0 ' c. , VOL. LT .
z 328 Report of the Committee on ColoU ?
'- Vision , the oTeen light .
Asked if he was colour-blind , ho replied th he w~s not and that he bad never made a mistake in report\#183 ; at the colour 'of a light ; and , in answer t_o _the question as to wh11 in his opinion was the cause of the colhs10n , he had no hesitati a in stating that it was owing to bis own captain porting h'~ b~lm .
In a l~tt~r published and commented upon in the leadin ; Liverpool ~hrppmg paper , the Journal of C~rmnerc~ , referring to this .case , 1t 1s remarke~ that " the negatrv_e evidence of the look-out man ~h_at he .
did not see the 1:ed light cannot weigh against the positive ev1de1 ; 1ce of ~he ca12tam , two officers , and the quartermaster that they did see 1t , and it has yet to be ascertained why it was not seen by him .
" But the Court chose to tako the look-out man 's statement as against that of the officers .
Tll( .
officers of a ship being consi~ered the responsible men navigatinga ship are therefore tested for colour-blmdness by the Board of Trade , but the Board of Trade do not admit that the look-out men are responsible .
They argue in this way : It is not for the look-out men to say what the colour oflights are they see .
They merely have to report that there is a Jio-ht and it is left to the officers to say what that light is ; but 'li1cr ; collision cases come into Court the Judges invariably ask the ' 1 look-out " as to the colour of the light seen , and as often as not take the word of the irresponsible " look-out " against that of the responsible officer , who is supposed to do the best for hi~ Company , and who is also on his trial .
Mr. Bickerton ::mbsequently communicated the following\#183 ; m , ult~ of an examination for colour-blindness that he held : " I examined again on Monday and Tuesday last the hoys oi the Seamen 's Orphanage in order to obtain some cases for a lecture .
The results of the two days ' examination were mosl curious- First day-91 boys examined Second day-44 , , , , or 6 colour-blind in 135 .
1 colour-Llind .
5 typical blind .
Total number of boys 225 ; but I had no time to examine the remainder .
On examining the same institution five years ag11 there were 8 colour-blind out of 200 .
All the children an ' , as the name of the Institution implies , the sons of sailors .
That fact , in chief , is of interest when the hereditary quality i~ takl'n into consideration .
" Evidence of Mr. E. NETTLESIIIP .
Prof. FosTER : You have kindly consented to put the information you possess concerning Colour-vision at the disposal pf the Committee , and we must leave it to you to decide the point ; , upon which you will give evidence ; but there is one class of cases , ie should particularly like to know something about , namely , thosr 9f scotoma from diseases of the optic nerve ?
Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
329 The " \"V1TNESS : It generally affects both eyes , an\lt ; l causes a lowel'ing , but seldom complete loss , of the functions of the central part of the visual field .
Except in very severe cases perception of black and white remains , but there is , I believe , always a disproportionate lowerin_g of pei:cep~ion of colours over that area .
I believe the usual form It takes IS blmdness to the complementary colours-red and green .
For detecting the presei:ce , and roughly estimating the size and density , of the defective area ( scotoma ) , it is enough to use a small piece of coloured paper on the end of a stick or a pen ; the coloured piece should vary in diameter from 5 mm. or less , up to 25 mm. or more , according to the severity of the case ; the more the sensibility to red , e.g. , is lowered the larger must the retinal image be , i.e. , the greater the number of units excited , in order that the sensation of red may be produced ; also the greater the defect the brighter must the colour be .
For accurately mapping the scotoma of course the perimeter must be ur \lt ; l. As the loss of colour perception on the greater part of the defective iRland , and often over the whole of it , is only partial , the size of the scotoma and its exact outline , like the size and exact outline of the normal field for any colour , vary according to the size and quality of the colour used , and also to some extent with practice arid attention on the patient 's part .
I rnsually take red first , because any defect in that is most easily apparent ; it is not so easy to get a pure green , and many people arc uncertain between blue and green , or do not know the names .
In very slight cases , however , we sometimes nse a pale green in preference .
The green I use is as pure a light green as I can get .
" Emerald green " conveys to me the id0a of a bluish-green , Lut perhaps erroneously .
Light-green baize woulJ be the colour , I should think .
Question-Could you describe the green you mean in waveleugth ?
-I have no knowledge of colour expressed in terms of w:i.ve-leng'th .
The detection of the scotoma depends in a certain degree on the luminosity of the 1 est-colour employed ; ccet .
pm\#183 ; .
, the lower the saturation of the coloured spot , and the smaller the diameter of the coloured spot , the more easily is the defect perceived ( see answer to a previous question ) .
I cl_ ?
not test with mixed colours : for instance , purple I found unsatisfactory , except in slight cases of tobacco amblyopia , where yon must either take an extremely small spot of pure colour or a larger spot of carefully mixed colour .
Such patients will sometimes i , my mauvo is reel .
Something depends on the patient 's training and intelligence .
I had a case of central scotoma from tobacco 81 ; 1'kinp ; in a man who harl been accustomed to deal in artist 's pig-~ents_ ; ho recog\#183 ; 11isecl every colour , pure and mixed , in spots of van ?
us sizes , till I tried a dark sort of mauve , which appeared to bun IJ !
nP or liluish in the centre of the field .
Ile said that the only conuuercial colour with which he had had any difficulty was z2 330 Repo1\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colom\#183 ; - Vision .
" smalt .
" [ The witness here handed_ in a number of charts illuslra .
tive of cases of .
tobac~o amblyoprn , and atrophy of the optic nerves , and explamed with reference to them .
J Question-They ~o not lose the_ sense of form , only the colour ?
-The test 1s used_ only fo !
its colour .
The form of the spot is not spoken of , and 1s of no 1mporta~c~1 .
Question-Is not the defect of Colour-v1s1on generally accom .
panied by defect of Form-vision ?
-Yes , always .
I have neYei\#183 ; seen a case in which the loss has been entirely a colour los~ The form loss ( loss of acuteness of vision at the centre of th~ field ) is always recorded first .
Speaking broadly , the loss u[ form-sense , as it is commonly tested , i.e. , by black letters on a white ground , is about proportionate to the loss of colour-sense at the centre of the field .
One commonly records the form-sense howeYer , only at the exact centre of the field , whilst in th~ cases of central ( or approximately central ) scotoma , one tests the Joss of colour-perception over an area extending several degrPrs from the centre i11 every direction .
If the scotoma area be represented as a cloud , we shall have to say that in different cases the total area of the cloud varies , as well as its aYerag\#183 ; e densit } , and that its nucleus or densest spot , though always very near to the exact centre of the field , seldom coincides precisely with that point , being usually 2 or 3 degrees to its outer ( temporal ) side , sometimes inclined upwards , sometimes downwards .
The cloud usually forms an oval , extending further into the outer than the inner part of the field , and frequently including the blind spot .
If the cloud be very large it may be co-extensiYe with the field for green or for red , and then those colours will not be recognised anywhere ; but in the ordinary tobacco cases the cloud is smaller than the red field , if not smaller than the green field , so that a red-perceiving zone is left of greater or less width and perfection .
( Several of the charts illustrate these various points .
) In the cases to which I have referred the patient has come for a\lt ; l , ic~ on account of tlefect of Form-vision , and has seldom Raid anything about Colour-vision .
One of the first complaints made is often of a mistiness that prevents the patient from recognising the feature~ of a person at a distance ( the scotoma when smc , ll covering t~e person 's face at a distance ) , and at the same time of difficulty m reading , which is not removed by spectacles .
Occasionally they will say that pe~ple 's faces look unnaturally pale .
I ha , :e knowi ' .
two cases m wl11ch sportsmen found out the defect whilst Y~rJ slight ~y t_h~ir bad ~hooting : they could see the birds ri ; ; ( eccentric v1s10n ) but Just when they aimed the bird " was lost .
Question- , Vhen you have had a man who could uot see red .
and h~ve sho~n him a _red object , say a bit of sealing wax , what does 1t look like to him ?
In accordance with what bas been aii:eady said this will depend largely upon ( 1 ) the size and ( 2 ) th~ ):mghtness ( saturation ) of the test object .
If it be three or folll rnches long\#183 ; , \#183 ; and an inch or so wide , he will ( unless wry h~d !
usually recognise the colour , either because some part of its Report of the Committee on Colow\#183 ; - Vision .
331 retinal image falls on the undamaged part of the red-perceiving field , or becamie , though the image falls on none but damaged percipient_ elements , it occu1~ies so many of them that a correct sensation IS the result .
But If the red test be of from 5 to 20 mm. diameter , the patient will call it variously " no colour , " or " brown , " or " black , " or later on , perhaps , " white ; " finally , after lrnsing recognised it correctly in the eccentric parts of the field , he may continue to recognise it correctly , though as a , , paler " a " duller " red , even at the centre .
If a light-green ~pot Le used as the test , it will commonly be called " white , " sometimes " grey , " on the defective area .
I think they never call pure rc\lt ; l yellow ; certainly not often .
They more often call it 1.Jruwn .
Question-\Vith reference to tobacco amblyopia , is there any particular kind of tobacco you have found to cause it more than others ?
-All strong tobaccos , especially " shag , " carnndish , and strong cigars .
Question-Are cases sometimes caused by alcohol , or by tobacco only ?
-There is a great difference of opinion as to whether alcohol alone can produce this form of amblyopia , or any form at all commonly .
Some think it often causes central amlilyopia , though I have never seen a case where alcohol alone had do11e so .
There is abundant evidence that tobacco alone can cause it in cases of teetotalers .
\Ve also know tobacco cases occur in women smokers . .
.A large number of carefully recorded facts by various observers , bearing on the influence of alcohol and lllauy other poiuLs in relation to this so-called " toxic ' ' amulyopia will be found in the " Trammctions of the Ophthalmological Society uf the lTnited Kiugdom , " vol. vii , p. 36 ( 1887 ) .
Q11eetion In cases of persons who ara heavy smokers of strong tobacco who get amblyopia , is it not usually some mental depresHion such as would he caused by tho loss of a wife or child that causes the tobacco to take effect ?
-Yes ; I have for many years insisted strongly on the frequency with which the OHsct of failme of sig"ht in smokers has been preceded by :--mething which , directly or indirectly , has caused a lowering of p ; en\lt ; 'ral vigour .
It is comparatively seldom that when tobacco aml1lyopia comes un the subject is in his usual vigour and health .
Question--Do you thi11k these cases of scotoma in railway s ?
rvants and others are uot common enough to be worth cont\lt ; Icleration ?
-ThPy are not at all so rare as to be unimportant from the point of \#183 ; Yiew of signal readiug , hut the safeguard is that i.l1ey ahvays suffer from defects of form-sense , a11d that causes 1.lwm i- , n 11rnch i11co11Yc11icnce that they take achicc for it .
'~houg-h th(0 y might uow and then manao-e to carry ou their signalliHg clnties fo1\#183 ; tt time , snch an event w~uld be rare . .
Q11cMw , i-:-Do _yon fiud that people engaged in the open air suffer J , ,ss Ill tlns respect than those employed indoors , such as clerk , i ?
-I do not know that it affects any class particularly , a1iart frrnn depresi : ; ing or exhausting causes .
332 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
Question-You think it would be advisable after a raihv accident to test the driver and guard for centra~ amblyopia ?
~ yes .
I think it would be well to do so some little time afte the ; ccident , since shock is one ~f t~e causes .
of the lower~ vig\#183 ; our which so .
often .
precedes t:tns failure of s1 " , \#183 ; ht .
I had the following case m pomt :-A railway servant Jumped off the foot-board of a train moving at about 10 miles an honr .
he was badly shaken , and his general symptoms were for a time suspected to _indicate gra_ve degener~tion of the brain arnl spinal cord .
IIis sight also failed , and tlns was also thought to point in the same direction , until it was found , on careful examination that be had the scotoma of tobacco amblyopia , and that h~ smoketl .
His sight returned perfectly when be left off smoking ; he also gradually recovered from the symptoms of shock .
Question-Your opinion is that , contrary to the ordinary so-called colour-blind persons , these people with central scotonia have a sufficient defect of form-sense to warn them ?
-It is always great enough to be a safeguard .
It is the same with other diseases of the optic nerve , but the clinical features of cases of atrophy of the optic nerve , from whatever cause , are , generally speaking , less uniform than those of the axial neuritis that occurs commonly from tobacco smoking , and perhaps occasionally from other toxic influences , and as a .
substantive disease .
The axial neuritis group presents tolerably uniform symptoms , because only certain bundles of fiLres of the optic nerve are diseased , viz. , those which supply the centn , l area of the retina , the disease very seldom spreading to the other bundles .
The symptoms in other forms of optic nerve disease aru less constant , because the malady does not show any such conRtant selective affinity for certain strands of fibres , but may affect some or all , and with various degrees of severity and of permanence , according to the seat and nature of the originating cau ; ;e .
lu one very important group of cases , the group known generally as " progressive atrophy " of the optic nerve , it is the rule to find that the field of vision in the earlier staO'es is curtailed at it~ circumference , either all round ( " concer~ric contraction ) , " or m ?
re commonly by the loss of sector-shaped pieces .
'l'ogethrr with such total loss of portions of the field there iR u : , ; ually a lowering of sensibility over the area that remains , so that ' ' acute\#183 ; nes : : ; .
of vision " is damaged also ; but sometimes the C ?
~u\#183 ; u re~ams very ~ood in spite of great loss of peripheral :1s'.on .
T_his " pro~re~s1 ve atroph~ " is most commonly a part of a :-11n1 !
ar ~isease affectmg the spmal cord ( and sometimes the brnm ) m tho form of tabcs dorsalis or locomotor ataxy .
::\larked colour~blindness is the rule in progressive optic atrophy , lmt : accordmg to my own rather rough clinical notes , the_ Joi ; , of c ?
lour .
perception does not stand in a perfectly m !
1fon~ relatwn with loss of ( central ) acuteness or with lo , -s of held~ * I h11ve not collected 11ny observations on this point since publi~hinf , such 11s I then had , in 1883 , in vol. iii of the " Trans. of Opht.h .
Soeiet , J , p. 256 .
Rrp01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
333 nevertheless , in by far the majority of cases of this sort , as in central ambl_yopia from tobacco , \amp ; c. , acuteness of vision is so much lowered as to be for the patient the most important symptom .
I remember only one case in which the patient , a sailor , who had been accustomed to steer and to look out , discovered his inability to distinguish the colour of ships ' lights , whilst his acuteness of sight still remained good enough for ordinary purposes about the ship .
( \Ym .
B. " T.O.P. , " iii , 33 .
) How the loss of colour-vision stam.ls in relation to loss of light perception in cases of optic nerve diseai : ; e , I cannot say .
People suffering from disease of the optic nerves often come saying they want g-lasses for failing sight , and naturally think the defect can be remedied by glasses .
Glasses do not help the matter , though they of conrse may remedy the form so far as the defect is due to the images not being properly focussed .
Question-H has been alleged on behalf of railway workers that the i : ; ense of colour-vision becomes impaired after long\#183 ; hours of work and want of rest ?
-I have no evidence on that suuject ; hut I should not have thought it likely to be true .
Question-Ilave you had any experience of hysterical colourblindness ?
-Yes , but I have not put together my facts about it .
Contraction of field and lowering of acutenest'l of form-perception are nearly constant ; but the state of colour-perception , according to my experience , varies greatly .
The fields sometimes show spiral contractions , but not always .
The spiral contraction is , as a rule , put down to exhaustion .
Auout congenital colour-blindness I have not much to say , except that it is common in men and very rare in women .
I have one splendid case of a colour-blind woman the only one I hn.ve ever seen of the kind .
It is not ; common green-blindness ; I think it must be blue-blindneRs .
She never makes mistakes about green , and is always wrong about other colours .
I use Ilolmgren't:i test .
Question-You have had some experience with the use of a ~n.mp ?
Can you make any statement about that ?
-The results w1_th tl_w _lamp vary very much .
I cannot quote statistics ; but I tl~mk it 1s true that as a rule people congeuitally colour-blind will make fewer mistakes with such a test than those whose colour-deft.ct has come on with disease of the optic nerve , e.g. , tobacco c \Ses .
But both classes are liable to make mistakes if tnk~m off their guard by varying the colour of the glass , the size of tho aperture , or the brightness of illumination .
A further cuu1- , e of variation lies in the interest or attention that tho examineo shows ; he may make mistakes at first , but learn to correr.t tlwm if the tests are repeated .
I should not n:yself , a~ at present advised , rely upon a lantern-test alone , eit~ier as a s c-ientific test of colour defect , or as a truetworthy Knul0 .
for thP detection of those whose colour-defect is dangerous .
ho wucil-lusl i~ much less open to these ohjections , because tlic 1111ml , er of t mts and shades is so much larger , and possibly 334 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
also for some optical reas_ons .
In .
my testing la ?
tern I ha\'e a diaphragm with hol_es of d1ff~rent sizes , representmg the regular railway lights at different d1st~nces , w1~h red_ ?
-nd green glass impplied by one of the Compames , and m add1t10n a numLer of bits of smoked glass .
I often , but not always , succeeded in getting the pers_ons te~ted to confus~ red a~d green , and also \#183 ; white smoked light with coloured lights .
'Ihe persons tested should , stand at a distance of 12 feet , and I vary the size of the hole so as to represent a railwaY : signal at different distances .
Some time ago my colleague , Mr. Lawford , examined an engine driver from the South Western Railway , who came to St. Thomas 's Hospital because he had been rejected that morning on account of colour-blindness , although he had been two years previously tested and passed .
His eyes were perfect but colour .
blind .
\#183 ; with Holmgren 's first series he matched green and red ; and with the next series he confused greens and greys .
Ile was tried with the lamp , and then confused red and green in Loth large and small dots , making more mistakes with green than with red glass .
Such a man , if he were very much on the watch , might go on for many years with safety .
He ~aid he never experienced any difficulty in telling the colours of the signals because the red ' ' glistened .
' ' I had a somewhat similar case with a medical student who had been at sea .
In trying him with one of Stilling 's tests , consisting of coloured letters on a black ground , I found he could not see green 011 hlack .
I asked him if he could tell lights at sea , and he ~aid , " Yes , \#183 ; quite easily ; there is the red light and the black light .
" I lately saw a man who had been a stoker on the Great Ea~tem Railway for a number of years and now wanted to pass as a driver ; but on being tested was rejected as colour-blind .
Ile did not believe himself to be so , and came to Moorfiel\lt ; ls IIo~pital for a certificate that hfr~ colour-vision was perfect .
Ile prond , however , to be an ordinary red-green blind .
On the other hand , w~ have had men appealing to us there because they had Leen reJected who really saw colours quite well .
Question-That probably occurred through using the naming tests ?
-Yes , I suppo1se so .
Question-Does night-blindness throw any light on the \lt ; 1ucstion of colour vision ?
-I do not think rn .
Patients who have nightblindness are certainly not colour-blind .
In such cases l think all colom:\#183 ; s disappear equally , together with form , but 1 can~ot speak with any authority on this point .
A very night-blmd p~rson w~uld be deficient in the day also .
Temporary nigh~blmdness 1s due to some want of nutrition of the retina , and is often associated with scurvy .
It is now a rare disease in this country .
The ordinary varieties of night-blindness are due t , i disease of the retina .
Questi ?
n-Does this failure ( the permanent night-blindness due to disease ) come on in middle life ?
-It varies\#183 ; rnme are born with the disease which causes it , and with otb~rs the disease Repo1\#183 ; t of the C01nmittee on Colom\#183 ; - Vision .
335 comes on later .
In most cases it gets worse .
It is not due to the pupil not dilating , though a fixed small pupil does cause a slight degree of the symptom .
'J.'here is a group of cases of colour-blindness ahrnys associated with defective acuteness of vision , the peculiarity of which is that , the affected persons see best by dull light , and cannot see nearly so well in bright light- " day-blindness with colomblindness .
" The condition is due to disease occurring very early in l:fe , and is stationary .
It generally affects several members of a family , and the females as much aB the males .
Usually the colour-blindness is complete , and often totril .
Probably some of these cases have from time to time been taken for examples of ordinary congenital colour-blindness .
Evidence of Captain MACNAB , of the Local Marine Board at Liverpool .
I am Chief Exarniner and Secretary to the Local Marine Board at LiYerpool , established under the Merchant Shipping Act .
I superYise tlrn colour-testing , and frequently conduct it myself ; in fact , I examine more than anyone else .
\Ve have a dark room in which we take the candidates , and have the usual lanterns supplied by the Board of Trade , with the uniform slides .
vVe place the man 18 ft. away from the light , and ask him the usual r1uestions .
'\Vo also ask him to name colours ; if he succeeds in passing all these tests we give him a certificate , and , if not , we reject him .
Question .-\Vhat are the usual questions ?
-\Ye use the usual shades , and ask the man to name them .
They are the same coloms as the Boan1 of Trade use .
Both officers and men are examined Ly me .
They are examined on first entering , and afterwards .
The officer , ; generally come from schools , and are of tho apprentice class ; we also g et a great number of men from large steamships-common sailors .
Questi011.-},.re either the officers or mou allowed to enter the : : ; ?nice uf tho Companies without passing the prescribed examina !
1on for r.olour-vision ?
--Yes , anybody can go to sea without passmg tho colour examination .
The last come because largo steamsh ) vs fiud it wise to have them tested .
They come direct from the ships .
As a general rule , some official from the docks , who has to_ look after the gathering of the crews , comes and brings a batch ?
f ~non-quartermasters and sailors-with him .
A quartermaster 1s snnply a man who steers , and keeps the gangway .
He wears the Company 's uniform .
Ile would often have to take the look-out duty .
On an emergency , say , if a lai\#183 ; ge numLer of the crew were clown with fever or dysentery , they might take a lower cla : : ; s of men , who had not Leen examined for steering and look-out duty .
\\1he11 I was at sea it was customary to take " look-outs " frrnu aJJywhere .
The examination for colour-blindness had not then lie(m instituted .
It is usual now to submit men to be tested 336 Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colom\#183 ; - Vision .
for colour-vision in the best Companies , such as the White Star Cunard , Guion , National , a1 ; 1d Inman-all the large Atlanti~ Companies .
They get no higher P'.1Y o~ accouut of having a certificate .
They would not be admitted_ m the larg~ Companies if rejected by me .
Every officer who apphes for a certificate of the coasting Companies is tested in colours .
There are two diffe1ent ways of applying to be examined ; _one , when a man applies to become an officer , and another , by which any one can come , without formality , by paying ls .
to be tested , and , if passed , certificated on the spot .
If a man fails , he can come up again .
We had .
one who came up four times .
I have had cases where they have failed once , and afterwards succeeded , but this happens very seldom .
I have seen a fair number of failures .
From May 1 , 1877 until December 31 , 1889 , in my own port , 12,272 persons wer~ examined for certificates as officers ; 90 failed , which gives 1 in 136 , or \#183 ; 73 per cent. for that class .
I cannot tell in what proportion those men \#183 ; who had already passed were to those examined for the first time .
In the figures I gave the same man is not counted twice ; they are individuals , and I can say , speaking from memory , that I do not believe there were two people who had been failed at other ports and passed at ours .
Prior to 1885 there was great diversity in the mode of conducting the examination , the appliances being different ; Liverpool , before that date , was , I belieYe , the only port that had a dark chamber and a decent lamp ; after that , the Board of Trade issned uniform lamps and glasses .
With reference to the failures , there is another class showing a higher percentage than the officers , viz. , those paying the shilling fee , principally quartermasters and forecastle hands .
Since May , 1880 , when the ls .
fee system began , wo hare examined 942 ; out of these , 34 failed .
During the four years 1887-1890 , when the records were kept more accurately , 22 out of 777 failed-a percentage of 2\#183 ; 83 Most of the applicants were rough seamen , with some few of the officer class who had failed before .
Question-Have you any explanation to give why a ruan su~ceeds after once failing ?
-Perhaps by getting the colours and bemg coached up .
His colour sense might be improved , uut I think not .
Ques tion-Do you find many people ignorant of the namrs of colours ?
-That is one of the great difficulties I haYe never tried to solve ; it is a scientific question .
I have never tried with two lights at the same time , and asked the candidate to name them .
I always ~ ?
nduct_ the ex ?
-mination exactly in accordance wit\#189 ; ~he Board of lrade mstructions .
Men do appeal from my dec1s1~n and go to an oculist ; in fact , if over I do fail a man , and ~10 !
6 y oung and poss~hly curable , I ad vise him to go to an ocuh~t Ill order to ascertam whether he is colour blind and incurnlik , or colour ignorant and curable .
I sometimes find in testing a man coming up for a higher certificate , that he fails the Recoml time , although he has once passed .
I do not trace this to any Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colozw- Vision .
337 peculiarity of vision , but I believe , in most cases , the first passing was a fluke .
Question-I suppose that if it is possible to pass by a flukl:l , the method of examination is not satisfactory ?
-I am not prepared to say that I tbi11k tho colour test , as conducted at present , _is unsatisfactory , if properly applied .
If I have any doubt I always make a man repeat the na1ues of the colours in his own language .
Question-I think you said something about crammcrs .
If they cannot develop colour sense , how do they help the candidates r Is it by showing them the lamps , or using the apparatus ?
-I believe they provide themselves with a set of colours as 11carly like ours as \#181 ; ossible , or the same .
I know one case of a teacher with a similar set .
He would show a colour to the man who would say , perhaps , " it is red , " and tell him that whenever he saw that which appeared to him to be " red " be was to call it " green .
" I am not quite satisfied as to the proper names to be given to all the coloured glasses we use .
There are some you might perhaps be in doubt about if you had not been told the names .
These are the confusion tints .
Questio11-Do you think there is anything beyond colour , any kind of perception , which would enal\gt ; le a man to distinguish colour ?
-Ko , I think not .
I sometimes use the wool test , which consists of different coloured wools with a number attached to each .
I give him a test skein , and tell him " to toss over all of this sort of co1onr .
" I apply this test to perhaps three cases in a year .
I think tho ignorance in naming\#183 ; colours is gettiug less .
I believe many of the first failures were recorded because a man did not know the names of colours .
I think it of supreme importance in our busines8 to ask candidates the names of colourn , and it is better than asking them to match colours , Lecanse tho m:m must transmit the name of the light ho sees to the officer of the watch , and if he gives the wrong name it might mean disaster . .
( l , uestinn-Y our impression is that colour knowledge is as practically important as colour vision ?
-Precisely ; only that the one can be acc1uired , but not the other .
Something ought to be done as to vision ; we have no authority to test for that .
Question-Do you take a man with weak eyes ?
--'\Ve cannot st ?
p such 3 : man going to sea , though he would not see in a heavy , ,md or ram .
Q 11 e8tio11-Do you think fog interferes with the lio\#183 ; bts ?
{ : Pitainly ; it takes from the carrying power , and turns ~ green hg-l1t to white . .
_Q_iu'slir , n-lfave you any means of explaining as to this to men .10111n1g tho service ?
-No , it is not within our scope .
_ \lt ; l , 11 estion-\lt ; Jonld you make any sug-gestion a : .
, to what should lw '.1~ 1l as a 1 P~t for acuteness of vi8ion and power of seeing at n 1li 8 tnncn ?
-~ot .
_beyond standing by the man , and ascertaining how he can i , ; ec thmgs at a distance .
It would not be sufficient 338 Report of the .
Committee on Colour- Vision .
for him to pass such a test once ; he should be re-tested ever 11.T t .
y ten years at least .
.1.~ot many men come o me wearmg glasse:i They consider it rather !
" rifra dig .
, .
and glasses wou_lcl intel'fer~ with the discharge of their duty , bemg affected by ram , \amp ; c. Question-What is your opinion on the practical importance of the question of colour-_sight in the Navy and Merc3:ntile Marine , and as to any facts whrch have come under your notice , that tencl to show : it is an occasional cause of disaster ?
-I have no statistics or cases on record , but it seems to go without saying that if a man cannot describe colours , it may lead to disaster , and there may have been many disasters that could be traced altogether to it , although we cannot prove it .
The importance of the question cannot be over-estimated .
I know of no instanceR of collision or shipwreck where the colour-vision of the persons psssibly in fault has been tested in legal or other enquiries , but I know an instance of a man whu was chief officer of a steamship and had been in the Company many years , and was promoted to the command of a large vessel , and then asked to get hi~ certificate for colours .
Ile tried at London and Liverpool and failed at boLh , and then realized the fact that he was hopeles~ly colour-blind .
If tho Company had not asked as to his colonrvision he would probably be at sea at the present time .
That man had passed the Board of Trade examination in navigation and seamanship , but not for colour-vision .
Another man I know of , who has failed in colours six or seven times , I have seen in command of a vessel with the Board of Trade highest certificate as an extra master , but he is unable to distinguish colours .
He passed his examip.ation for navigation , but his certificate is endorsed " colour-blind .
" The Board of Trade cannot forbid the employment of such a man .
It is very unsatisfactory that a man who has failed to pass the colour test should command a ycssel .
and I should recommend legislation to alter this , as that is the only way it can be stopped .
I think that beyond being able to distinguish reel and green lights when they are together , a man should know the green , even if he could not see the reel light .
and many of these colour-blind people would be able to uistinguish between reel and green if thAy saw both together , especially if crammed up beforehand .
The diruinution of the inability to recognise green becomes of great importance .
There are 01111 two roads to go , and you must be either right or wrong .
I sometnnes find candidates call our grnen lio-ht white .
Ques~ion:-Sul ?
posing th_ey could distingui~h on board ~hip a green light , by its appearmg to them white , and the other red , would that be sufficient ?
-No , because they might mistakl~ a steamer for a fishing boat .
It is essential to be able to distingm~h green as accurately as possible , and at as great a distance as possible , and if this power is diminished to a certain exh'nt , danger may be apprehended .
Question-There is often no time for deliberation in forming _a judgment ?
-No .
Often the light cam10t be seen until tho yessel i. , ; Report of the Committee on Coloitr- Vision .
339 close and one false moYe precipitates calamity .
Stormy weather is at ti1~es the clearest , but often the condition of weather is such that a man , upon seeing the lights , is close upon the other vessel , and has very little time to make up his mind .
That is , in fact , the normal condition of affairs round the British and American coasts .
'l.'he man who can see green thoroughly and easily will have a larger margin for action .
In the case of a man whose Yision is imperfect , he would waste his time in making up his mind as to the colour , and pride would not allow him to call anyLody to his aid .
Question-You have had large experience at sea ?
-Yes .
Question-Do you think red and green are the best lights ?
The best up to the present , but we want a better green ; it is too weak .
It is apt to turn white in a fog .
It does occasionally happen in enquiries that there is a difference in the evidence about the lig\#183 ; ht shown , but I cannot answer from my own experience .
I have neYer given evidence before the Admiralty Court .
Question-"\Vould you recommend , in cases of collision , that an examination should bo made as to the colour-vision of the officer in charge of the vessel ?
--Yes , whenever there was reason to doubt about it .
Q11Pstion have yciu any knowledge of training ships ?
-I examine Loys from the " Conway " and " Indefatigable , " as officers , in one case , and sailors in the other .
The examinations are systematic .
If I reject them , it is a check against their further going to sea .
Sometimes a boy does not want to go to sea after putting his parents to trouble and expense , and finds colourblindness a good way to get out of it .
I had one case in which n Loy called every colour by its wrong name , avoiding the right name all round .
I failed him , and told his people I did not think his colour-blindness was genuine .
Question-'l'bP.n after receiving all tho advantages of the training he might be rejected ?
-Yes , and he might be made a junior oflicer before he appears for the examination , and perhaps 1e in charge of the ship in fine weather .
The authorities are very careful with regard to colour-vision , and reject a good many .
I examine 40 to 60 of the " Conway " lads in a year .
Question-\Yith regard to the " Indefatigable , " supposing a boy was found to be colour-blind , would the authorities of the ship di~miss him ?
-N"o ; he would be quite free to complete his education .
question-Are yon quite satisfied with the tests you use ?
-I believe_ they answer the purpose , though they will not tell whether a man rn colour-blind or colour-ignorant .
I think there is a very bn._d chance , practically , of a man passing the test who is colourlilmd .
340 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
Evidence of Staff-Surgeon PRESTO~ , RN .
I have had three years ' experience " '.'ith _the testing for Colour .
vision in the Navy , that is , the exammation of recruits for the Marines , domestics , stokers , and boys 'j also of every class of ofiicer entering the Service , at the Admiralty .
In 1888 , for which year I only examined a proportion of the cases , the total number examined was 2,935 , in 1889 3,856 , and in 1890 3,961 .
With reo\#183 ; ard to the Service , it is a matter of great importance that we t\gt ; h~uld not have any persons either with defective vision or iiupcrfect perception of colours , and \#183 ; with a view to that end a printed form is always forwarded to tl.ie parents or guardians of any young gentlemen coming up for naval cad8tsbips , or assistant clerkships , recommending that previously to their educational examination for these posts by the Civil Service Commissioner , they should be medically examined by their own private pr:wti~ tioner , and special stress is laid upon the fact that the candidate would be unfit for tho Service if affected with blindne , ; ~ , or defective vision , or imperfect perception of colours .
[ The Witue~ , , here handed in a copy of the form referred to , calling s1iecial attention to paragraph 4 .
] The larger number of those entering the Service , principally Line-jackets , stokers , and Marines , have nothing of that sort submitted to them , but they are subjected to a preliminary examination by a couple of Sergeants , before being passed on to me as medical examiner .
The preliminary , or rough test , consists of the ordinary asking of guestion13 as to bright colours on card-board .
I may remark that 1 see about 3,000 1uen and Loys a year at the .Rendezvous , but there are nearly ti.tree times that number who come in the building applying to cnt0r the Se rvice , or raised by the Recruiting Sergeants ; only one-tl1inl , howeve r , come to m e , the rest being rejected for some canse or other .
with regard to the men-stokers , Marines , servant:- ; .
am !
dockyard appreutices-I simply use the ordinary colour test .
[ Test board handed in .
] Each person in succession has to conr one eye , and then a colour is pointed out , and he is asked , vbt colour it i s .
If there is the slightest hesitation in repl_yiug\#183 ; , Ilolmgren 's wools are used .
That is the system which has been used for many years with men and boys , and I have found , :is n rule , defective colour perception is hardly to be foun\lt ; l among- that class of people , doubtful cases being in nearly every instance duo to colour ignorance , and appears to be con.fined to men and boys raised in the country recruiting centres of England and Scotland .
In many instances these persons will confuso th brighter colours , yellows and blues ; they understand grpen , ~ , ut frequent !
y , especially with boys raised in the Eastern Conntws , where they are recruited from agricultural labourers , they ca111 1ot detect some of the test greens , although they will a , t , ouce recognise grass-green with Holmgren 's wools .
I am :- ; pea~ing of boys from the country as contrasted with those rabrnl Jl1 London or twenty miles ronnd , of whom a large number como lo us every day .
Repo1\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colou1'- Vision .
341 In the ordinary examination the candidate would be told to point ont all the colours on the board .
We find it necessary to state to the candidates that there are four simple colours-no crimsons , oranges , or violets .
1n case a caudidate fails to name correctly the colours on the board , we satisfy ourselves further by using the wool test .
The men who are going to be examined have no access whatever to the test board , and to vary the positions of the colours we turn the board round .
" '\Ve carry our tests much farther in the case of officers , particularly naval cadets and engineer students , who are required to ha Ye absolute normal vision and colour vision , each being examined separately by Suellen 's test , supplemented by flags and wools .
They stand at a distance of 16 feet , and are shown each of the flag\#183 ; 1o separn , tely , and have to name them in quick succession , tested " \#183 ; ith either eye .
That is the first test , and the next is ::\Ir .
St. Clair Buxton 's marine telechrome .
[ The Witness exhibited this apparatus , and explained its use .
] The glasses in this lantern are used at the same distance as the flags ( 16 feet ) , with red , blue , violet , green , and white lights in quick succession , and with the fogging apparatus , which is simply a piece of glass fogged on one side ) with no lens whatever .
~upposing a candidate mistakes uetween reel and green , we take a further test .
The candidate is allowed to wait while the rest of the examination is proceecfod with , and is then re-examined on the doul .
Jtful point , as it is aLsolutely necesf:ary that an executive officer should discern at once every coloured flag , either of our own or foreign nations .
In se , eral cases the Medical Director-General has allowed a young gentleman to come up a second time for examination one or two days later , but I have looked through the records and find they are never successful when once defective colour perception has l.Jeen detected .
The figure1o giving the proportiou of candidates rejected are as follows : In 1888 there were 214 examined for Naval Cadetships , and of those , one was rejected for inability to distinguish greens from l.Jrowns , and another was found ignorant of the names of colours .
It appears , however , in the records that upon being\#183 ; l !
Xaminod subsequently tho same day he was passed .
In 1889 , out of 2U3 examined , there , vere 1\#183 ; 02 rejections for defective colour perception .
Of these one was rejected for confusing greens :mcl br_owus ; one was absolutely colour-blind ; and one in the 1mmedmte p0rception of colours was uncertain .
In 1890 , 305 n:wal carlets were examined , the perce1)tage of rejections being\#183 ; l \#183 ; 31 .
Of these one was rejected for inability to distiug-uish lJetween greens , reds , and browns ; and three were rejected for l.Jeing n11al , lc to dii , tingui !
\gt ; h green from red .
These were boys whose ~arents Imel received the warning as to defective 1oight ; bL1t , as a rnle . .
par\lt ; \gt ; nts do not en.re to go to the expense or trouble of a merl1cal examination l1eforehand by their own doctor .
Although_l lmve laid great stress upon promptness in replying to tlic qtwstions in examination , we do not reject candidates for 342 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
want of promptness .
If there is the slightest doubt we re-exam:n always testing such cases with Holmgr~n 's wools before fin ; I]~ rejecting them .
Naval cadets .
and engineer students have foii\#183 ; examinations in colour-percept10n before they are declared uufitt The conclusion in the case I referred to as totally colour-blind must have been arrived at in the ordinary way by Ilolm"'ren'~ wools , the flags and huntings .
I may mention that if boys/ 'whe ; : sent to the training-ships from our Rendezvous , are suspected with regard to their colour-perception , it is reported , and they are w~en on ~he ship , tested by ni9ht as well ~ day , by day with the telescope up to , say , the distance of a mile , and at ni , ,httime with the coloured lights at the full length of the ship .
[ 1.'h , , Witness here exhibited a specimen of the Admiralty green glass as used in the lights , and explained with reference to it .
] ' We never find anybody who can distinguish the .Admiralty green who cannot distinguish a greener green .
Where candidates persistently confuse red and green in the lantern , lmt sort the wools correctly in using Holmgren 's test , it is the fault of the lantern not being sufficiently green .
Speaking of colourblindness which is not .
congenital , \#183 ; I should say that all the narnl cadets to which I have referred were , as far as our regi , ; ters show , rejected for colour-blindness which was congenital , but I should have difficulty in getting further information upon that point .
We have no records uf men with normal vision among whom colour-blindness has been brought on by disease .
Naval officers are never examined after their appointment , and , therefore , they might be suffering from tobacco amlilyopia ; but naval cadets and engineer students are not allowed to smoke until they are eighteen years of age , and on the Bi\#183 ; itannia they are , of course , constantly being examineJ with colours .
When they have once been passed into the Service they would not be examined again systematically ; but if there was any suspicion as to colour perception , they would be examined by the medical officer of their own ship : : ; , and invalided , and if found to have defective colour-vision , be removed from the Service .
There have been a few cases of blue-jackets who , upon offm:ingtbemselves for rating as signalmen , were rejected as colour-hlmd .
but upon closer examination it has been found to be due to defect , of the accommodation of the eye .
This would be brought out in the following way :-Ppon a man being examined for signalman he would be required to rc~d hoists of 20 or 30 flags at once , and upon being asked by In~ exam.m er w h at a fl ag was would answer " w " instead of , , c1 , " and upon reference it would be found he mistook red for gre~n .
This might be due to defective vision rather than defectirr colour perception , but this would come ont in examination at the shorter ranges .
All men are examined , as every man is a look-out man mor~ or less .
All pass a course of musketry and gunnery instrnctwn , Repm\#183 ; t of the Cornrnittee on Colou1"- Vision .
343 and before this are medically examined to test their power of yjsion , because if this were not absolutely normal the training wonlcl be time thrown away .
They are examined by the officers of their own ships by the method laid down in the Queen 's Regulations : coloured flags supplemented by Ilolmgren 's wools .
I do not know of any case of an officer becoming colour-blind through disease .
The defects that are found are generally those of accommodation , and occur primarily with officers about 45 years of age who are presbyopic .
To the best of my belief , there is no officer in the Service at the present moment at all defective in colour-vision ; that , I l , elieve , is so with regard to the executive branch , and engineers who are in cliarge of the machinery of torpedo toats .
I do not think that there are any Marine or medical officers defective in colour-vision .
I kuow of no easer : ; of collision , where there has been a courtmartial on the loss of a ship , in which any doubt has arisen as to whether it occurred through inability to read the signals , except that of the Iron Duke and the Vanguard , where the look-out man was said to have been myopic .
In such a case the question would undoubtedly be thoroughly gone into , because it would be the sole defence of the\#183 ; man .
The look-out men are put through the card test as boys , and are for five years after undergoing a constant test by tl1eir instructors , with flags and bunting , from a few yards to a mile , and with the telescope as well .
If a man was wrong in his signals , he would be detected , and examined by the medical officer , and tht : Jn sent to hospital for further observation .
With reference to the statistics as to recruits in the Marines , I have looked back for six or seven years , and find none rejected as far as the Medical Officer was concerned , but they have been pre , iously sifted by the Staff-sergeants , who examine for colourand form-perception , using Holmgren 's decided colours .
I only see one-third of those who come up , the Staff-sergeants having probably rnjected the rest .
No recruits wl10 have passed the wool test are found to be inefficieut :-mhr : ; equently among Marines , domestics , and artificers ; hut a Hmall percentage , and with bovs but an infinitesimal immher , failed fmhse\lt ; ]_uently .
It often happens that a boy who l !
asRes om test in London , and finding a life on board ship pertect lie 1_1ew to him , gets discontented , is told by somebody that by f !
aymg he does not know what certain colours are he may lJc sont to howital , and invalided out of the Service ; but they are exami111.)d at the hospital , and in all cases returned to their ve~sels .
YOL .
LI .
2 A. 344 Repo1\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
Evidence of Dr. GEORGE LINDSAY JOHNSON .
The OHAIR : IIA~ : .
You _are .
aware , perhaps , Dr._ Johnson , that this Committee is mvestigatmg the gen~ral subJect of colourblindness .
We gather that you have _given y_our attention to the subject , and should be glad o~ any mformati\lt ; ;m you can giYe the Committee as to your experienct : of practical testing by various methods ?
-I am acquamted with most methods .
I hay~ used the spectroscope , and recently a simple form of Captain Abney 's method .
I have also had a little experience with Donders ' method .
Some of my testing has been with the spectroscope with a graduated circle , in which you read off the point where the spectrum appears to the patient to encl .
It i~ only with red-blind and green-blind cases I have had much practical acquaintance ; although I have had one violet-blind .
In using the spectroscope , I ask the patient to fix the point where the spectrum appears to end , and read it off on the scale , to ~eo if I can get an improvement benefiting the patients who are red-blind , and in order to practically measure the improvement under special treatment .
I may say with coloured wools or ordinary reflected colours I do not think it is so easy to asrc.rtain whether patients make a definite improvement as by 'll.easuring with a Vernier 's scale , with which the exact limit to which the red end extends can be made out .
Some patients find a difficulty in fixing the exact limit to which the red extends ; but , as a rule , with intelligent patients , they can fix it pretty definitely .
The source of light I have hitherto employed has been a candle at Moorfields Hospital , and a paraffin lamp at home .
I find there is a variation according to the light used , and to prevent error on this account I have always used with the silile patient the same source of light .
Sky-light gives different results to candle-light , and also with regard to the fields of vision .
In taking fields of vision I generally use Dr. Priestley Smith ' , perimeter , which I have modified somewhat myself .
I am not quite satisfied with the dead or pigment colours , but ada]Jt to tlw perimeter an instrument for taking fields of vision , which I haw had constructed for use with a 2-caudle power incaudPscent electric-light .
[ The Witness handed in a diagram illustrating the ap\#181 ; aratn~ referred to , and explained with reference to its use .
] Question.-Does your experience go to prove that the spectrum colours all disappear at the same an\lt ; Yle as Landholt holdt : !
, or do you find a difference iu the disai'1)earance according tn_ the mtensity of the light employed ?
-Yes .
I am certain tlw cltffer\#183 ; ence is in accordance with the intensity of the lio\#183 ; ht .
1 !
Jaye not got figures at p~esent with regard to the exact 0point when )\#183 ; c t_he colours stop with the spectrum , and do not think mr I1f\'ll1 , CS would be of much use , unless interpreted by Fraunhofer s Ime1:1 .
Repo1't of the Committee on ColoU1\#183 ; - Vision .
345 With receard to results obtained in increasing the sensibility of the eye to ~ed in red colour-blind cases I have had a patient who came to me originally at Moorfields , who had been rejected by the Board of Trade because he could not see bluish-green or red li..hts on board ship .
Ile was extremely colour-blind with regard tt red the red colour being shortened nearly up to the orange , so it ocr~rred to me that acting on the supposition that in his case the trnnble was probably central and not peripheral-for I could find no change whatever in the disc-I got him a pair of goggles so as to completely exclude all daylight except what filtered through the best red photographic glass with which they were fitted .
I told him to wear these goggles the whole day long uutil he went to bed at night , not taking them off until the lights were out .
Ile followed my instructions , and I tested him every consecutive month with Holmgren 's wools , and noted on a lis t the colours in which he made mistakes .
At the end of a month I found a considerable improvement , and at the end of three months bis colour-vision was nearly perfect , being wrong in only three out of forty , whereas at first ho was wrong in thirty out of forty .
I sent him again to the Board of Trade for re-examination , and they found he was so much better than before that they told him still more , he might come to them again and they would grant his certificate .
He went up again and passed completely in the red and green glass test with the lantern , but failed on the card test in the light pink and light blue .
The last time I heard he had got the post of mate of a vessel trading\#183 ; between London and the Netherlands .
llc wore these coloured glasses up to the time he passed .
He : ; aid it was a great trouble seeing everything red , but insisted on keepiug to them , notwithstanding the inconvenience ; and upon testing him with the spectroscope-which is the only absolute test we posses , ; -there certainly was an improvement in his vision as far as the extent of light towards the red end was concerned .
I asked him to define red , but from what I could gather he had always had congenital colour-blindness , and it was very difficult to say whether his sensation of red was the same as ours .
It is my firm conviction that the continual stimulation of some part of the conducting fibres or sensorium-whether peripheral or centml-of red , awoke a faculty of perceiving something which may be called red .
I did not try whether bis colour-blindness was central , nor whether he relapsed after leaving off his glass _s , but will make enquiries .
I tneu with two other similar cases , which got a little better , but afterwards they gave up the goggles , saying they could no~ sec well enough to go about with the glasses .
I do not ~hmk the case I have mentioued was clue to tobaceo , as the man / ~rdly ~ver smoked , and his vision was very acute , being -g-ths , \gt ; I 0 11_e line below normal , in either eye . . .
With regaru to detecting colour-blindness by the ophthalmo : ; cope I may say that I have strong reasons for believing there 346 Report of the Committee on Colou1'- Vision .
are two forms of colour-bl_indness , vi~ .
, central or .
cere)Jral ; and peripheral , or connec !
ed _with the optic ner~e , as m retro-bulbar neuritis or in the retma itself , or the chor01d .
In those cases ii which ~olour-blindness is congenit:3-l I can detect absolute ] ; nothing with the ophthalmoscope wh1ch would lead me to suppose that the patient was colour-blind .
I can , on the other hand exhibit a number of diagrams showing marked changes iu pathn : logical colour- blind cases .
The portion of the disc affected is more extended , and there is that wedge-shaped triangle on the outer side of the disc which is so characteristic of tobacco and other narcotic amblyopias , only in these cases it is generally more extended .
[ The Witness here banded in a number of charts illustrating cases of colour-blindness , and called special attention to a pale spot on the retina which was characteristic of such cases .
] I have brought with me a patient who has perfect colourvision with one eye , while in the other she has no colour whatever .
She describes the appearance of the spectrum as being like a grey smear .
I cannot find that she has any perception of violet .
Question-I think you said you had another point to bring before the Committee ?
-Yes .
I have i ; , ome information , the result of two or three years ' study , which I am not sure exactly regard~ this Committee , but 1 have made some experiments showing that if you place glass in front of the eye so as to wholly exdudr daylight as far as possible , and have glasses made so that only the blue-violet end of the spectrum passes through , cutting off oraoge and part of the yellow , the field of vision for white , ii contracted , will after a week become enlarged to normal , and that holds good with some cases of detachment of the retina .
I was induced to make a large number of experiments with rabbits to ascertain the reason .
They were kept in a hutch-like phot()graphic chamber so that no other light than that through the red or blue glass could reach their eyes .
After a certain time thi : Y were killed and put in a black bag , their eyes being fixed m osmic or nitric acid .
I found a distinct anatomical differenco hetween the retinas of the animals under the different glasses ; and these differences come under four heads:~'irstly , in the animals kept in the blue light the rods o~ the retma adhere much more closely to the little processes nf the hexagonal prism , so that the retina cannot be easily detached aft~r death .
S~condly , the pig1 ?
ent under blue glass is incr~ased .
Thirdly , the retmas take up flmd more easily than thoy do Ill the opposite colour ; and lastly , not only do they stain much better ~n the staining fiui_ds , but are also more developed , and seern to me:rease and multiply more than in the red glass .
These_ fou~ pomts hold good for all rabbits .
It seems to me that a111 !
lla)~ kept under a constant source of blue wave-lengths hay certam changes effected in the retina differing from those under the rE\gt ; d end of the spectrum , and that possibly may acconut for t br Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
34 7 reason that I find the field of vision incn~ased in almost all cases of patients whose field of vision has been contracted beforehand , if kept for a length of time wearing the goggles I have referred to .
I am not prepared to say whether if the rabbits are exposed to ordinary light the retinas would return to their former conditiou .
Question-It is said that photographers suffer from working coustaully in a red light ; do you think that is so ?
-No ; but I think they suffer from bad ventilation , as a rule .
Question-\#165 ; ou say that after death there is more difficulty in the detachment of retina after keeping the animals in a particular light ; would that have any application to colour-blind cases , or point to any cure ?
-I cannot positively state an instance of a detached retina going back , but in almost all cases of slight detachment of the retina , where the field of vision has been cut off over a certain area , that area has been considerably increased after wearing blue glasses , except when separated by effusion and forms of umbrella detachment , when the retina becomes , as it were , bleached .
Question have you had any experience with progressive atrophy , as to whether persons suffering from it have a lack of colour-sensation ?
-I find their field of vision , both for white and for colouni , iR extremely contracted , and that nothing I have ever tried for them has done the slightest good .
I have taken the field of vision for a great many atrophies , and find Llue is the last colour to disappear , as well as the most extended .
I hay never found a patient with a blue field and no other , but I have fouud blue extends further than any other .
According to IIerriug , the blue and yellow field ought to be co-terminous , but l do not find that to be the case .
Evidence of Dr. EDRIDGE GREEN . .
'l'be CnAIRllfAN : I believe you have paid a good deal of attention to tho question of colour-vision , and perhaps you will be so ~ood as to deHcribe to the Committee the methods you have used lll your colour tests , and the general character of the results obtai~1ed ?
-[Witness handed in a diagram illustrative of psychophysical colour-perceptioo , and explained as follows]:- .
_The theory is that the perception of colour is a perception of di_fference ; colours are confused by the colour--blind , not because ut any loss of substance , but because the individual cannot perceive ~ny difference between the rays of light included 111 a. port10n of the spectrum which appears monochromatic to hnn .
The size of the monochromatic band varies with the indi virlnal .
A lJerson who has very defective colour-perception has_ a m011ochromatic band so wide as to include several coloms wlnch are easily distinguisheu .
by a normal sighted person .
348 Rep01't of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
In some cases seven colours are seen , and then the seventh colour appears at the point where it should appear by theory In the first degree of c ?
lour-blindness on !
y five colours , or point~ of difference , are seen m the spectrum ; m the next degree four .
in the next , thr~e ; ~hen two . .
T~en a neut:al ?
an~ appears at the blue-green Jtmct10n , an~ this n~creases m size Ill different cases until total colour-blmdness 1s reached .
Therefore the vision \#183 ; of the normal-sighted being hexachromic , the visi~n ( If the colour-blind iR pentachromic , tetrachromic , trichromic or dichromic .
It will be noticed that the great \amp ; t difference is to be found between the 3-unit and the 2-unit cases of colour .
blindness , the primary colours for each being quite cliffereut .
The two primary colours for the 2-unit are yellow and blue , and they each represent half of the spectrum .
In the case of the 3-unit the three primary colours are red , green , and violet .
Red combined with green forms yellow ; violet combii , Pd with green forms blue ; so it is evident that these colours occupy the positions which I theoretically allotted to them .
The above refers to the number of approximate psychophysical colour units .
An approximate psychophysical colo11r unit is a portion of a physical series which contains physical uuits that are not easily distinguished from each other , a11d are so much alike as to be called by the same name .
An absolute psychophysical colour unit is a portion of a physical series which contains physical units that cannot be distinguishro from each other even under the most favourable circumstances .
It will be seen that an approximate unit contains several absolute units , but in each case the similarity between them is greater than the dissimilarity ; for instance , there arc many hues of red , but the character of redness enables them to be cla~sed together .
The other chief cause of colour-blindness is shortening of one or both ends of the spectrum .
This is probably due to : , mme retinal defect , as neither light nor colour are perceived at the shortened end .
It is distinct and separate from diminished psychophysical perception , which is due to defective size of the colour-perceiving centre in the brain .
Question-How would you establish the six or any other number of colours with the person you were examining ?
-A person who sees six will at once i-ay so .
I test with a spectroscope provided with two shutters in the eye-piece , showing the examinee in the first instance red , orange , yellow , and yellow-green , because these are of nearly equal luminosity .
I make him indicate the junctions of the colours ; any colou~s can be cut off with the shutters , so that the person examined 13 not able from one colour to guess the others .
I use au orcli !
iary spectroscope ( one prism ) , provided with shutters , as explame ?
\#183 ; The actual procedure in using\#183 ; this test is as follows :-I ascertam where the spectrum commences , where it terminates , what colours are seen , and where the junctions of the colours are , the Report of the Committee on Colou1\#183 ; - Vision .
349 patient using the simtt_~rs until he is satisfied that he has obtained the correct Junct1_on .
Question-If you had say five points of difference , would they always come exactly in the same place ?
-Yes ; such a case would not see orange as a definite colour .
( Jue~tion-'\V old a patient recognise no orange , supposing a , -.ingle colour was suitably chosen and distributed over a sensible field , and beginning from the sodium line ?
-A 5-unit case usually objects to the term orange ; he would probably call it reddishyellow .
I have not come across any 1-unit cases ; that is the only one on the diagram that is not drawn from my own experience .
I should explain that the diagrams are all drawn the same lengths , to demonstrate the psychophysical diminution of colour-pereeption and not the shortening of the spectrum , in which case another effect is produced , viz. , the junctions of all l'olours are altered ; a 2-unit , with shortening of the red end , if the spectrum , puts the junction of his two colours nearer .
the time than a 2-unit with an unshortened spectrum .
Diagram No. 6 shows a transition from red to violet ; in such cases there is no neutral band in any part of the spectrum .
The one colour passes into the other without any definite intermediate point .
\#183 ; In examining for scientific purposes the spectrum would be the\#183 ; first test , afterwards wools , pigments , or lights , in accordance with the spectrum examination .
Questio , i-\Vould it not be easy to coach a person for this ?
::,.[ o , becanse he would never he aLle to hit off the exact junctions 1Jf tho i ; olourn .
Question-\Vhich class of the colour-blind would you consider a , ; representing dangerous cases for signalling purposes ?
-I .
'l'hose who possess a psychophysical colour-perception with three or less units .
II .
Those who , whilst being able to perceive a g-reater nnmber of units than three , have the red end of the spcctrurn sliortenPcl to a degree incompatible with their recogniflOH of a reel light aL a distance of two miles .
III .
Those who are affectNl with central scotoma for red or green .
The 3-unit would be unsafe , for though he would always recognise red awl green , eYen to the lowest degree of luminosity , he would confuse yeUowR , especially dark yellows , with reels and greens , and gcne1:ally call them reddish-greens ; in fact , yellow has been tlescnhed by such a patient as being of the same colour as a red clover field in fnll blossom .
The 2-unit cases and below are ,1hsolutoly clangorous .
The 5-unit and 4--unit are safe . .
[ The Witness here handed in his Pocket 'l'est , and explained it !
, use , Captain Abney being asked to pick out all the shades of orange .
] fl 11estion-\V_ old you describe a person as not having distinct orango percopt1on , who could not mark out the definite regionR on he spectrum bounded on one side by yellow and on tho 350 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
0 there by red , _Yes ; I should describe such a case as not seeing orange .
Question-I understand Dr. Brown 's test comes out under your patronage ; may we therefore tal~e it that y~u approve of that method ?
-Not at all .
A medical man might roughly test with it .
Question-Do you_ test ?
Y uome11 ; clature or matching ?
-By nomenclature , combmed with matchmg .
Many normal sighted persons fail with Holmgren 's test .
because they think a shade is a colour , paymg as much attention to the one as the other\#183 ; if you say " I want you to pick out all the greens , " you give the~ something tangible to go upon .
If a person in picking 0111 twenty or thirty greens also pic1':e1 ] out h~lf-a-Clozen reds , it would be certain he was colour-blmd ; but 1f he has to match a green wool he might pick out with the greens a light brown , and not be colour-blind at all , and the error could be rectified by explaining to him tl1at the colour he selected was greeuishhrown , reddish-brown , or yellow-brown , as the case might he .
'\-Vith Holmgren 's test , under the : ; , am circumstances , he would have failed .
This might be confirmed by asking\#183 ; him to classify the whole 150 colours .
Question-Do I understand you that a normal sighted person might pick out brown instead of pale green ?
-Yes , because he might pay more attention to shade than to colour .
In testiul.( practically I should first use the Classification Test .
I ; ; hold not begin with the spectrum with a practical test ; it woul1l not be convenient , and persons would object to it .
[ At this point the witness was asked to applytheClaR : .
; ification Test to Mr. Rix .
Mr. Rix was first requested to pick out all the shades of orange he could see , and in so doing he selected two skeins of wool of a decided light green .
Dark blue and Yiolet were matched as being of the same colour .
In matching\#183 ; reds , a reddish-brown was picked out , but described as baviug more l\gt ; lue in it , and blue-green was sorted with the drabs , and referred to as being brighter .
] .
Wr.rNEss.-The Classification Test is used in order that mexperienced examiners might not have to depend npOH the Lantern Test-in which not more than twenty answer : , arc required .
I do not use the Board of Trade colours with that test , but my own .
The person examined should be alile to distinguish ~etween the red , green , and white lights , either alone or modified with the neutral glasses .
Question:-Why do you think it necessary to have a preliu1inary test to this ?
In order that an inexperienced examiner may feel certain that the mistakes made with the Lantern Test arc uot due to colour ignorance .
Question-Have your investigations been with pathological or congenital colour-blind cases ?
-With both .
The principles upon which I examine are as follows :-The first principle which guided me in the selection of colours may he Report of the Committee on Colow\#183 ; - 1 " ision .
351 illustrated in the following way :-Let us take an ordinary 2-unit colour-blind , and , having given him the set of wools belonging to the Classification Test , ask him to pick out all the reds .
On examining the pile of wools selected as red , it will be found that the majority are red , but in addition there will be some browns , and yellow-greens .
If he be then told to pick out the whole of the grnens , the greater number of those selected will be greens , lmt there will be also greys , browns , and reds .
In each case it will Lo soeu that the majority of wools are of the desired colour .
If another 2-unit colour-blind be examined in the same way it will be found that , though he may not make exactly the same mistakes , ho will in all probability pick out the same greens to put with the reds , and the same reds to put with the greens .
The : ; am result will be obtained if the colour-blind pernons be asked to name a large number of colours .
They will in most cases name the colour con'ectly .
It will be noticed that the gTeens which were put with the reds when classifying the coloun , , will be called red in naming them .
It is evident that the same idea has guided the colour-blind in each case .
This shows that , though a person may be red-green blind , he i ; i not absolutely red-green blind in the souse of being totally uuable to distinguish between the two colours .
This is what we should expect , as the red and green are included in an approximate , not in an absolute psychophysical unit .
The fact that they are actually judging by colour may be demonstrated by giving them coloured materials of different kinds , or by asking them to name a large number of coloured objects .
To a person with a ~pectrum of normal length and no neutral baud in the blue-green , it is necessary that the colours , to be considered as identical , must be included iu au absolute psychophysical unit .
One of the most definite signs that persons with a neutral band in the bluegrc.:en have a more defective colour-perception than the ordinary : : !
-unit , is that they will put together as identical a red and green w~1ich arc distinguished by the ordinary 2-unit .
In addition to this , they will mistake the reds and gTceus which have been confui- ; ccl hy the ordinary 2-unit .
It , will be i- ; even that if we take a 2-unit and ask him to name a u~mLer of red and gl'eeu wools , in the majority of instances he will name them correctly .
But as , almost invariably , the same wooh , are chosen , for all practical purposes ihe same result would h~ obtained by asking a person to name a few of these wools .
\\ hat more tlociderl and brio\#183 ; hter greens could we have than r '"li 1 ' " os .
' m~c !
J4 of my Pocket Test ?
yet these are two of the green : , ':wh1ch are called rod : : ; by the 2-unii .
\Ve should have aecornplt:- ; head as much by asking a colour-blind person to name T ?
" \#183 ; 7li a11d !
J,1 as if we had asked him to name a large number of green : : ; .
The colours in a test should , therefore , lie those which 1 !
1 ' C( 1lu1_1r-hlllld are particularly liable to miscall .
At the same ton , 'll1t11\#183 ; uature should be unmistakable to the normal sighted .
My Bef'llllll principle is that a colour-blind person will name 352 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
colours in accordance with his psychophysical colour-perceptio and thus show distinctly to which class he belongs .
n , The third principle is that colours may be changed to colour .
blind persons whilst leaving them unaltered to the normal sighted .
Fourthly , the phenomena of simultaneous contrast are much more marked with colour-blind than with no:mal sighted persons , Two colours not changed to the normal sighted , on being contrasted , apparently alter considerably to the colour-blind .
These tests are described in full in my book on Colour-Llindne~s and Colour-perception in the International Scientific SerieR .
Question-How would you proceed , supposing you were asked by a railway company to test 500 men ?
What arrangementH would you make , and how long a time would the exammation be likely to occupy ?
-I should examine each separately , taking care that the others did not look on .
I should first examine with the Classification Test , and then put them through the Lantern Test , taking twenty answers in each case .
The process would only take about five minutes for each man , with even one examiner , because one man could be going on with the classification whilst another was being examined with the lantern , I allow ten minutes for each man , because I think that it is a great mistake to hurry , or be in any doubt about a case .
Question-At that rate it would require 80 or 90 hours to examine the 500 men ?
-It would mean a considerable expcuditure of time .
Yon want to know if a man can distinguish betwern red , green , and white at a distance of two miles .
You might commit yourself to the Lantern Test alone ; but if one man was sorting the wools while another was being tested with the lantern , it would take little or no longer to employ both tests , and in rejecting a man the double test would be conclusive .
I regard both tests as desirable , and the Lanter11 Test as essential , for that would detect scotoma , whereas the Classification Test , rould not .
( J , uestion-Y ou said you tried a progressive atrophy case .
and that he was a 2-unit man , and his junction at about the E linP ?
I cannot say without referring to my note-book , but he saw ?
no part of the spectrum as whitish and th~ other blue , only socmg those two colours .
[ Capt. Abney said:-\iVhen I tried him the junction of the white was at ; \ , 4\#183 ; 733 between .F and G , and nearer to F , there being a sudden com~encement of blue at thi~ point .
At 26\#183 ; 5 of my scale he saw a little blue , and at 26\#183 ; 75 no colour .
] .
Th~ essential part of _my theory is that psychophysioal perc~ption 1s due to the bram and not to the retina .
The theory I have formed is that the visual purple is liberated from the rod~ by light , and forms a photograph at the back of the retina !
~nrl that the cones only act as transferring organs of the porc1pwur fibr_es , transferring the impression of the photograph to the bram .
Report of the Committee on Galow\#183 ; - ~ ~ision .
353 Question-Is not that something like Kiihne 's theory ?
-No ; he took a different view , the objection to which was that there are 110 rods in the yellow spot ; but according\#183 ; to the theory I have adrnnced it would be essential that there should be no rods at the yellow spot .
Evidence of Capt. ANGOVE .
The CHAIIUIAN .
You are , I believe , the Captain Snperintendent of the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company ?
Yes , the Marine Superintondeut .
You are probably aware that this Committee is investigating the question of colour-blindness , and the precautions taken by steam-shipping eompanies and railway companies against accident from this cause ; we are therefore anxious to hoar what is the practice of your company with regard to examining officers ?
One of ihe Mauaging Directors and myself first examine applicants with regard to objects at different distances from the windows , then the Company 's Medical Adviser examines them with coloured wools and for distance sight .
They havf to arrange and name the different colours .
The vision for distance is tested by placing tho camlidato at the regulation distance from ophthalmic large tei : ; t types , and the near vision by corresponding small type .
It is required that both eyes should be equal to the average of good sight .
\Ve find , I am sorry to say , a great number who are not up to the sta11dard , and often have to reject candidates in conser1uence .
Qul'stion-That is the procedure for candidates for the posts of officers ?
-Yes , but there is also a Board of Trade examination liefore coming to us which they have to pass in getting their cortifirates for various grades of officers . .
Question-Do you take pupils in your Company ?
-No , not now ; m former years we had two training ships , but they have been discontinued , so that every officer must now hold the Board of Trade eertificate , which includes colour-vision .
Wo often find c !
lndidates deficient , and reject a great number for defective ::ng-ht .
-~uestiu11-The11 that points to the Board of Trade examination bemg u11sati1 , factory ?
-Yes , l , do not think their examination is snffici1mtly rig\#183 ; id. Q11estiun-\\ Told you in your examinations reject candidates both :or colour-vision and form ?
-Yes ; and we give equal a~teutiou to weakness of sigl1t with regard to seeing- at long d1stauces .
quf , ~tion-Do you give rejected candidates a second opporturnty r-No , but some go to an oculist 's on their own account , and we got a F1pecial report from him .
The weakness may be only of a t 1illiporary nature .
I attribute a g:reat number of cases to over- , _moking with young men .
We have traced several 354 Report of t/ 1 , e Committee on Colour- Vision .
instances to t~at cause_ , and where the smoking has been dis .
continued the sight has unproved .
Question-You said , I think , that in deciding ; for colours candidates have to arrange coloured wools ?
-Yes , they have to arrange greens , reds , \amp ; c. ; they are all mixed up , and the candi .
dates have to pick them out , compare them , and sort those of the same colour .
It is really the Holmgren test .
Question-After a candidate has been passed and admitted into the service , are there any tests subsequently applied ?
-Not unless he is reported by his commander .
We have fount1 some men colour-blind after being some years at sea and in possession of Board of Trade certificates .
There was one instance of an officer who was found to be quite colour-blind , and was conse .
quently tranferred to a clerkship in the office .
He had been passed by the Board of Trade , but not by us , as at that time we accepted Board of Trade certificates , and did not have our own examinations for sight .
Since we have found these various cases , we have realized the necessity of having our own examination , and have called the notice of the Board of Trade to the fact .
I have with me copies of correspondence which passed between Mr. Barnes and Sir Those .
Gray pointing out the fact to him that we have to reject so many young officers for defecti.e sight .
The Board of Trade admit the test should be more severe .
Question-Have yon never heard of cases in which the failure of the eyesight of officers has led to accidents ?
-I cannot say that I have .
The case of the gentleman I have mentioned who was colour-blind was discovered , I suppose , simply from his being on the bridge of the vessel with another commander .
He rose to be a chief officer before it was discovered .
His weakness might have led to accidents .
Question-Have you any statistics drawn up with regard to these cases ?
-Not beyond these facts that we are rejecting young officers .
In a letter dated the 9th April , 1889 , to Sir 'l ' .
Gray , Mr. Barnes referred to the many painful interviews with candidates who have wasted six or seven years learning thrir profession with the expectation of entering our service , and who , when the height of their ambition is about to be realised , find we are compelled to reject them on account of defective vision .
In one case a young fellow , with a new Board of 'l'rade certificate , who seemed a desirable man , could not read leth'rs 2 to 15 inches long 20 yards from the window .
In the last two years a considerable percentage of the candidates passed by us , a~ in other respects satisfactory , have failed in the sight test for colour or distance vision ; mostly tho latter .
Question-Do you find any improvement in the Board of Trade examiuations since you have written to them upon the ; , ubject of colour-vision ?
- I think they are getting more particular , from what I can learn from young officers .
Question-Another branch of our enquiry is as to what precautions are taken as to the vision of seamen ?
-\VA accept Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colow\#183 ; - Vision .
355 the Board of Trade certificate which they have to obtain .
Without that we do not admit them .
vVe have no test for Lascars .
Some 0 f our ships are manned by them ; but the look-out me11 are al , rnys Europeans .
' Question-That leads to the question of what are the responsibilities of look-out men ?
-It is a very important position , as they have to report everything seen by .
them to the officer in charge of tLe bridge ; though often he sees objects before the look-out man .
because he is iu a higher position .
It would be a bad thing if a look-out man was colour-blind .
Question-Does he ouly have to report " light ahead ?
" -Yes , or on one how or the other ; but he usually gives the signal with a gong , striking onee if the light is right ahead , twice if it is on the port bow , and three times if on the starboard bow .
Ile would very likely sing\#183 ; out , " green light , " or whatever it might be , after striking the gong .
Question-Do you think the question of colour for the seaman important ?
-Not so important as for the officer .
Question-Supposing a vessel suddenly emerged from a fog , and a green light was seen on the port side and a red one somewhere else , would it be necessary for the look-out man in that case to say where the green and red light was ?
-Yes , it would be of great importa11ce if he could .
Question-Supposing you had a foreigner , say a Welshman , who only knew \ Welsh , if he sang out the Welsh for red , which I believe is very like green , would it not be nearly as bad as if he were colour-bliud ?
-Quite .
Question-And then take the case of a German seaman , for instauce ?
-They all understand the colours .
vVe should not ship him unless he had sufficient experience to know port from starboard and red from green , and was familiar with the English exprcssious for them .
Question-If you rejected hi.m he could probably be shipped somewhere else ; I presume you think the company or vessel :night be at a disadvantage by shipping a man who was colourignorant although not colour-blind ?
-Yes .
Question-There seemed to be some doubt as to whether it was uecessary for the look-out man to have perfect vision for eok1\1r '.1nd form ?
-It is most necessary ( especially when in close proxnmty to a light , and the vessel perhaps altering her course ) .
The look-out man should sing out immediately red or green light , :~s ~e may see it before the officer on the bridge , should a sail , lor mstauce , happen to hide it from him .
Question-Do you know of any accidents that have been traced to au8cnce of colour-vision ?
-I cannot say we have traced one actually to it , but we have had suspicions about it , and they natnrnlly lia:e led to special enquiry .
In aclrlition to the case l have ruei1t1011ed there was another officer a , second officer , who 1 .
' ' upon imng questioned , was found to have his sight affected .
Iu all Emch cases we insist upon their leaving .
356 Repo1't of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
Question-With regard to shipping Lascars , :you say they do not take look-out dut , v ?
-:-They are a sort of ass1s~ant look-outs ; they have no respons1b1hty , as that always rests with a E ; 1ropean .
There are generally two on the look_-out together , ~me European and one Lascar .
As a rule they pie~ up a certam quantity of English , and they h~-:-e very good eyesight , though I do not know as to their colour-v1s10n ; they do not go through any exaruiua .
tion .
, Between th~ two , that is to _ say the_ European who ha~ picked up a certam aill:ount of ~mdustam , and ~he Lascar a certain amount of English .
, there 1s an understandmg between them .
Question-Do you think the precautions taken by the Board of Trade with regard to seamen are sufficient ?
-I would not say they are\#183 ; stringent enough .
Thay examine by means of coloured lights in a narrow passage , and the man has to call the colours .
The naming of colours I consider to be a right test , a8 well as matching colours , on account of cases of colour-ignorance .
Seameu might not know the names of all colours possibly ; but as long as they name red and green without mistakes , that would be sufficient .
Question-Ila , e you ever met anybody who called a light a black light ?
-No .
Question-Do you consider that the coaching for the Board of Trade certificate , which is known to be practised , might he the cause of the comparative ease with which defective colourvision men get the certificate ?
-I do not think the coaching is sufficient to account for it .
Question-Does your examination include coloured lig !
Jt~ ?
No. coloured wools only ; the Board of Trade use the colouretl lights .
Question-"\i\T e may take it that you examine all the officers , and you accept the Board of Trade shilling certificate for the men ?
-Yes , we always insist upon that .
All oflicers , from the first to the fifth , go through our tests .
Question-Have you any suggestions you would like to make with regard to the tests ?
-I think not , except that the Board of Trade cannot be too severe with their examinations , and a little st_rong : pressure might be brought to bear upon them in th1 , dll'ect1on .
vVe should be glad to have the examinations madr sufficiently reliable to relieve us of the necessity of doiug " \#183 ; hat they ought to do .
Repo1\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
357 LETTERS RECEIVED BY THE COMMITTEE BEARING ON 'l'I-IE ENQUIRY .
7680 " Pall Mall , " No. 1602 " 27tli Mag , 1890 .
" Srn , -I am directed by the Secretary of State for " Tar to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 20th instant , and to acquaint you in reply , that tests for Colour Vision are invariably u , :ed in the case of all candidates presenting themselrns for CommisRions in Her Majesty 's Service .
" Hohngren 's wools being the most convenient , are employed in a systematic manner to detect any defect .
" The plan consists in making the candidate match certain test colours from the heap of wools .
\#183 ; .
I am to add that recruits are not tested for Colour Vision .
" I have the honour to be , Sir , " Your obedient Servant , " RALPH THOMPSON .
\#183 ; .
The Secretary to the Committee , " So .
7G80 " Science and Art Department , " South Kensington .
" " Pall Mall , " 5tli June , 1890 .
" Sir , -I am directed by the Secretary of State for War to ackuowledgo your letter of 2nd instant , and in reply to acquaint you that there are no statistics regarding Colour Blindness compile\lt ; l in this Department .
" I have the honour to be , Sir , " Your obedient Servant , " The Pecrotary to the Committee , " The Royal Society , " RALPH THOllIPSON .
' ' Burlington House , w .
" 358 Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
" Description and Instructions .
~ GRtEN ~~ -~"~- RED === YELLOW " ( Modified after the Regulations issued from the Horse Guard~ , by Prof. Longmore , in 1868 .
) " Each test dot on this card is one-fifth c , f an inch square , and corresponds , at a distance of 15 feet , with the bull's-eye , 2 feet square , at 600 yards , required by order to be distinctly seen by every acceptable recruit .
" Men.-With perfectly acute vision these test dots ought to be clearly visible in full daylight at HJ yards .
" 1 .
Expose the card in full daylight at a distance of 15 fed from the candidate .
" 2 .
Examine each eye separately , taking care that the unused eye be merely covered , not pressed upon or closed .
" 3 .
Vary the number and position of the dots by coYeriHg " !
' ; Orne of them and moving the card .
" 4 .
Test each eye as to recognition of colour .
" " Civil Service Commission , " Westminster , " 28th i1Ia ; 11 , 1890 .
" 8rn , In reply to your letter of the 20th instant , T an : directed by the Civil Service Commissioners to inform yon that in the medical examinations conducted by them no tests of Colour Vision are employed , except in the case of the examination for the India Civil Service .
where the tests used are of the simple~t character .
, Rep01.t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
359 " Under the circumstances the Commissioners regret that they are not in a position to assist your Committee .
" I have the honour to be , Sir , " Your obedient Servant , " J. E. LOCKHART .
" Capt. Abney , R.E. " " M. 4624 .
" India Office , " Whitehall , S.W. , " 29th May , 1890 .
" Sm , -I am directed by the Secretary of State for India in Council to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 20th May , and to acquaint you in reply that the tests for Colour Blindness used by the Medical Board at this Office , in the examination of candidates for the Indian Service , are Holmgren 's coloured wools .
First a pale grass-green skein of wool is selected , and the candidate is requested to pick out from the heap of coloured wools others of the same type of colour , irrespective of shade ; if he readily selects the greens he is considered to be free from Colour Blindness , though the further tests are usually applied ; if he picks out any of the confusion coloured greens , drabs , pinks , yellows , \amp ; c. , he is Colour Blind .
" The second test used is a light purple or rose colour ; if he matches this with blues or violets he is pronounced red blind , if with greens or greys he is pronounced green blind ; if he passes the second but fails in the first test his colour sense is weak .
" The third and confirmatory test is a bright red ; if he is red blind he chooses dark greens and dark browns ; if green blind , bright greens and bright browns .
" I am , Sir , " Your ouedient Servant , " 0 .
N. N EWMARCH .
" lfaj.-Gen .
, ' " Capt. W. Abney , R.E. , " Science and Art Department , " South Kensington .
" " Military Secretary .
" Admiralty , " 27tli May , 1890 . .
" 1h Lo1m , -"\Yitb reference to letter of the 16th inst .
, requestmg , ?
n ~ehalf of a Committee appointed by the Royal Society to ( mqmre mto 1 hri subject of Colom Vif-ion , information as to the method .
, employed hy the Admiralty for testing Colour Blindness , I am C\lt ; J11~111anded by my Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to ncquamt you that candidates wLo are examined for entry into VOL , LI , 2 B 360 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vi8ion .
the Na val Service are required to recognise without hesitatio the primary colours , as well as green , the tests em~loyed bein n those of coloured flags or coloured cards held at varymg distance~ from the candidate .
" Cases of hesitation , or suspected defective colour-perception are tested by Holmgren 's wools and samples of coloured buntinir~ used in Her Majesty 's Navy .
tJ " A- special form of ~pparatus , in the ~hape of .
a lamp with coloured 1 , lides , for testmg colour-percept10n at mght , is unuer trial .
" I am , my Lord , " Your obedient Servant , " The Lord Rayleigh , " Ev AN MAcG1mGoR .
" Hoyal Society , " Burlington House , W. " " London , Brighton , and South Coast Railway , " Secretary and General Manager 's Office , " London Bridge , " Jiine 26th , 18 !
l0 .
" TESTS FOR COLOUR VISION .
" Srn , -Referring to your letter of the 16th instant , relaiiYe to the tests used on this Rail way for Colour Vision , I have the pleasure to hand you herewith some small samples of the different coloured glasses used for signals , and also a couple of pieces of red and green bunting , which are portions of flag\#183 ; s nsed for hand signals by our Guards and Permanent-way men .
The white bunting is made of the same material .
" The memorandum overleaf describes the pigments u:- ; etl for signal colours , and the labels on the glasses enclosed describe the colours and the uses the glasses are put to .
" With regard to the tests employed , I may state that the Company 's Medical Officer examines , on their appointment to the service , the men in the Traffic Department , and for tbiH pmpose skeins of coloured wools are used , as well as coloured discs .
" In the Locomotive Department the Drivers and Firemen fir8t commence as Engine Cleaners , when their eyesight is tested by the Inspectors , the colours shown being red , green , m1d white , at short distances .
On being promoted to Firemen it is again te ; ;ti 'd at a distance of about 420 yards with red , green , and .'"hik ~oard~ , of about half the size of semaphore signals , and tlu~ test rn agam repeated when they are promoted to Drivers .
" In addition to this , the Foremen examine them at di , ; tauce~ varying from 400 to 700 yards , both by night and day , the Surgeon of the district finally giving a certificate .
" I am , Sir , " Your obedient Servant , " A. SARLE , , .
" Secretm\#183 ; y and General J , fa11ager .
Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
361 " London and North Western Railway , " Secretary 's Office , Euston Station , " London , N.W. , " June 27th , 1890 .
" Sm , -I beg to acknowledge the re_ceipt o !
your letter ?
f the 16th cnrrent , and in reply to your enqmry am mstructed to mform you that the Company purchase the coloured glasses used for signal lamps from .
Messrs. Chance Brothers \amp ; Co. , Glass Works , Birmingham .
, , Defries \amp ; Sons , 147 , Houndsditch , E.U. , , Gammon \amp ; Co. , Belmont Glass Works , Birmingham .
And that they obtain the material for signal flags from Messrs. W. Bancroft \amp ; Sons , Halifax .
" I am , Sir , " Faithfully yours , " F. HARLEY , " Secretm\#183 ; y. " Capt. W. de W. Abney , C.B. , " The Royal Society , Burlington House , Piccadilly , W. " " Metropolitan Railway , " General Manager 's Office , " 32 , Westbourne Terrace , London , W. , " June 28th , 1890 .
" COLOUR VISION .
" Sm .
In response to your letter of the 16th inst .
, I may advise you that we have no appointed examiner to test the Colour Vision of our men , nor do we adopt the principle of colour glasseR .
' Our test is that known as the wool test , adopted by several of the Railway Companies , and it is made either by our Locomoti v~ Superintendent personally , or by his immediate representative .
" In compliance with your request , I have pleasure in sending the following samples : " 1 red flag .
" 1 green flag .
" 1 piece each of red anrl green glass .
'\#183 ; 1 small bottle containing vermilion enamel , with which we paint the Sig\#183 ; nal Arms .
" I am , Sir , " Your obedient Servant , " Uaptain Abney , RE .
, C.B. " " J. BELL .
2B2 - - - - ~--~-~~--,..,..-- ~---~-----362 Repm't of the Cornrnittee on Colour- Vision .
" South Eastern Railway , " General Manager 's Office , " London Bridge Station , S.E. , " June 27th , 1890 .
" COLOUR BLINDNESS , " Srn , -With reference to your circular of the 16th instant 011 this subject , I beg to state , so far as conc~rns the practice of thii .
Company in this matter , in connection with those entering their service , it is as follows :-Candidates for employment as Portors \amp ; c. , are required to match colours from a collection of coloured objects or wools of various tints , and the medical man also use , the tests known as Suellen 's tests .
" Applicants for employment ~s Engine Drivers enter the service as Engine Cleaners , and as a preliminary , a collection of coloured wools is placed before the candidate , and he is requested to pick out , arious colours as directed , and unless he is able to distinguish the colours readily and correctly , he is not considered eligible .
" In time an Engine Cleaner is promoted to a Fireman , and 011 this taking place , the colour test is again applied , supplemented with tests with hand flags at various distances .
" I am , Sir , " Your obedient Servant , " M. FENTON , " W. de W. Abney , Esq. , " Gene1\#183 ; al l , J ana[lt'1 ' .
" The Royal Society , Burlington Honse , \V .
" " The Great Northern Railway , " General Manager 's Office , " King 's Cross Station , " London , N. , " J11l,11 15th , 1890 .
" DEAR Srn , In reply to yourletter of the 16th ult .
, addro~Hed to the Secretary , Oil the subject of the tests applied to nw11 admitted to the Great Northern service for Colour Blindnes~ , l have the pleasure to enclose for your information a copy of a Report which I have called for from the Medical Officer , gi\\#183 ; iugfull particulars of the tests for the traffic staff .
" I also enclose copy of a Report from the Locomotive Super\#183 ; intendent , with referenl'e to the tests applied to Enginenwn .
" I can only add to the information contained in the~l\ the statement that I do not know of any cases where an accident has resulted from Colour Blindness on the part of any uf the Company 's servants .
" The test applied to the Enginemen is a practical one , not ouly for colour but for distance , which is a very necessary element , .
" Yours truly , " W. , v. Abney , " II .
OAKLBY .
' ' The Royal SociAty , S. W. " Repo1\#183 ; t of t !
te Committee on ColoU ?
\#183 ; - v'ision .
360 ENCLOSURE .
" The Great Northern Railway , " Locomotive Department , " Engineer 's Office , Doncaster , " February , 4th , 1890 .
" DEAR Srn , -Drivers ' eyesight .
Yours of the 13th ult .
, and Mr. Clement E. Stretton 's inquiry .
" \Vhen Enginemen are first appointed they are subjected to a rigid test , both with respect to distance and colours .
" For distance , the ordinary signals in the yards are used , and to a1:icertain their faculty for distinguishing colours a painted board is mostly employed .
" Men are again examined when age , infirmity , or any other cause leads us to suspect that their eyesight is in any way defective .
" I may tell you that in my long experience and that of my oldest assistant , no single case of Colour Blindness has occurred , and it should also be borne in mind that there are always two pairs of eyes on the footplate .
" H. Oakley , Esq. , " King 's Cross .
" " Yours truly , ( Signed ) " P. STIRLING .
" Belvedere House , " Barnet " Ju~e 28th , 1890 .
" DEAR Srn , In reply to your letter of the 25th inst .
, requesting me to inform you as to the mode of testing the sight of the men .
Each man is placed with his back to the light at a distance of 15 feet , and made to count the dots on a test dot card , first with both eyes and then with each separately .
I also made them read the names of stations which are printed on cards at the same distance .
If satisfied with the examination on this point , I then test for Colour Blindness by the use of Hohngreu 's coloured wools .
They consist of a collection of small skeins of coloured Berlin wool , each of which is loosely twisted up .
In this bundle is included wools of red , orange , yellow , yellowgreen , pure green , blue-green , blue , violet-purple , pink , brown , grey , several shades of each colour .
These worsteds being pla~ed in a pile on the table , I lay aside a skein of a special colour desired for the examination , I then require the man to select from the wools other skeins which most closely resemble the c , ?
lour_of the sample , and to place them by its side .
The Colour Sight 1s dedded by the manner in which he performs his task .
I hold lllJ the different colours to him at a distance of 15 feet .
'l'est 3 is a _confirmatory test , and specially useful in examining the Uolour Sight of those employed in reading signals .
Seleet a 364 Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision , viyid red skei~ , like the red flag used for sig !
1als o_n railways , a bright yellowish-red , a scarlet .
The red ~lmd will match the sample with a dark green or dark brown with shades which to the normal eye are darker than scarlet .
The green blind will select light green or light brown to match the scarlet shades which are lighter than the sample .
" Yours faithfully , " W. Latta , Esq. " ( Signed ) " W. J. HARNETT .
" Metropolitan District Railway , " Manager 's Office , " Parliament Mansions , Victoria Street , " London , S.W. , " July 17th , 1890 .
" Srn , -Y our letter of the 16th ultimo , addressed to the Secretary , respecting the various tests for Colour Vision , has been handed to me , and I beg to reply to your several questions as follows : " The tests are applied by the Company 's Medical Officer , Dr. R. Bligh YVall , of 72 , Bishop 's Road , Bayswater .
His test is by means of coloured wools , the person under examination ha\\#183 ; ing to name a given colour , and in some cases he is required to match colours .
" Any application to attend one of your meetings to explain the methods in detail , if addressed to Dr. Wall , will , I have uo doubt , receive his best attention .
" I send herewith samples of the different coloured glass in use for the different signals , viz. , red and green , as well as sample pieces of bunting used for hand signals .
With respect to the fixed day signals , in the case of those known as ground discs which depend on colour , the pigment used is known as Rennett 's Enamel White Paint , and Bennett 's Vermilion Fluid Enamel , two specimens of which I enclose .
' 1 I am , Sir , " Your obedient Servant , " ALFRED POWELL , " Capt. W. de W. Abney , " jJJanager .
" The Royal Society .
" " f , ondon , Chatham and Dover Railway , " Secretary 's Oflice , " Victoria Station , Pimlico , S.\V .
, July 14th , 1890 .
" Srn , In reply to your letter of the 16th ult .
as to the steps taken in this Company to test the Colour Vision of the employeS , I beg to inform you that the test used in our Locomotive Department is the same as that in the Army .
It is a test in colours autl dots on a card .
I enclose a copy of the card , as well as th8 Repo1't of the Committee on Colou1\#183 ; - Vision .
365 description and instructions printed a~ the back .
The card was obtained at the Horse Guards some time ago .
As regards the test adopted in the Superintendent 's Department for Signalmen and others under the control of the Traffic Superintendent , I cannot do better than send you a copy of a report from our Medical Officer with reference to the means which he adopts to test the Colour Vision of the men in that Department .
" Yours faithfully , " JOIIN MORGAN , " The Secretary , Colour Vision Committee , " Seci\#183 ; etary .
" Royal Society , Piccadilly , W. " " The .A.venue , " Brixton Hill " Jitly 9 , 1890 .
" DEAR Sm , In accordance with your instructions of , T uly 5th to report on the means employed to test the railway servants on L.C. \amp ; D.R. as to theil " ability to detect colours , the following apparatus is in use .
" It consists of a hollow tuhe about 12 inches square and 22 inches long .
At one end of it is a revolving disc having let into it as near as posi , ible the seven\#183 ; primary colours , great care being taken that the red , green , and purple are of the same hue as the actual signals:- " The disc is illuminated at the l\gt ; ack , thus giving the colours much the appearance they have on the signals .
" '.l'hi , ; appliance meets with all necessary requirements , and is a fair test as to the men 's capabilities of detecting colour .
" On examination they are instructed to look down the tube , and ?
Y means of a handle any one of the colours can be shown at .
will , so that .
no two men coming up need have the same series of colours .
This is very important , as when a number of candi366 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
dates come up together , they immediately communicate to the other what has taken place .
" The actual cases of Colour Blindness are very scarce , but it is not at all an unfrequent occurr~nc~ to fin_d men coming up , more particularly from the rural d1stncts , qmte unable to name the colours correctly , purely from want of education .
These men are always rejected .
" Yours faithfully , ( Signed ) " J. H. PARKER WILSON , F.R.C.S , " To the Superintendent L.C. \amp ; D.R. " " The Cunard Steam-ship Company , Limited , " Secretary 's Office , " Liverpool , 9th July , 1891 .
" Srn , -Referring to your letter of the 23rd ult .
, 1 beg to annex particulars of the tests required to be passed by seamen before they are admitted to the Cunard service .
" I enclose also skeins of wool similar to those used ou each occasion .
" The officers undergo a special examination for colour by the Board of Trade in passing each grade .
" The Cunard Company had the whole of their officers examined some two or three years ago by a qualified medical man , which examination is to be repeated this year , and every three years in future .
A special examination by a medical man is also to ue made in respect of each new officer entering the service , " As a representative of the Company , if he were to atteml a meeting of the Committee , could only repeat the particulars here given , my Directors think that you will probably consider such attendance unnecessary .
" I am , Sir , " Your obedient Servant .
A. W. MONII .
OUSE , " Captain W. de W. Abney , O.B. , R.E. , " Science and Art Department , " South Kensington , London , S. W. ' ' UOLOUR BLINDNESS .
Tests .
" Secretary .
First.-A lamp fitted with slides in which a. red , white , or green glass can be placed .
When the crew are about to sign articles the lamp is lighted , and if a sailor unknown to tho ?
fficers wishes to ship , if his qualifications are Ratisfactory , he is told to name the colour of the light aR the different coloured glasses are put in the slides and shown to him .
Se_cond.-Several skeins of coloured wool are placed on a ta~le , and if a stranger to the officers wishes to ship , he is told to pwk Rr , port of the Committee 011 Colour- Vision._ 367 ont a colour named to him .
Afterwards the surgeon or au offieer takes up one skein after another , and asks the man to name the colour .
If the llla11 's answers to either of the above are satisfactory , he is entered .
" Peninsular and Oriental Steam N avigati , on Company , " Offices , 122 , Leadenhall Street , " London , E.C. , " July 6 , 1891 .
" Sm , -We regret we have not been able to reply earlier to your letter of the 23rd ult .
, which was duly received , but we arc~ pleased now to give you the information you desire .
" Every navigating officer who enters our service bas his sight speciaily tested , and he is not accepted unless he possesses good normal vision in both eyes .
" The method by which the vision is tested is as follows : One of Pickard and Curry 's ( of Great Portland Street ) large sheets of test types is enclosed in a fra.me and hung on the wall of a room .
The prescribed distance has been measured and marked , and the candidate is placed with his toes to this line .
First one eye is covered up and he is asked to read all the lines , beginning with the very large type at the bottom line .
If the eye first exami11ed proves satisfactory , it is covered up and the other eye is examined in a similar way .
Should the candidate prove to have good long sight in both Pyes , his short sight is tested by his being asked to read a list of proper names printed in small type , the sheet on which the names are printed being gradually l\gt ; ronght closer to his eyes until the words cease to be distinct .
This distance is noted , and if shown to be the normal distance , hi .
, Right is considered good .
vV e attach importance to good Rhort Hight as well as good long sight on account of the neceRsity of reading , marking on charts , \amp ; c. " The candidate having shown himself to possess good long and good short sight , is tested as to colour-sight by being asked to name the colour : , ; of an assortment of the usual coloured wools , obtained for the purpose from Pickard and Curry . .
'\#183 ; P1:eliminary to this examination , the candidate 's power of long sigh~ 1s usually roughly tested by his being asked to read letters on sign-hoards , \amp ; c. at various distances in the street , but it is on the accurate tests above described , which are never omitted , that we plac_e .
reliance , and on the results which they give we base o~u- \lt ; !e~1s10n reganling the acceptance of the candidate so far as hu , vision is concerned .
All seamen have to produce Board of Trn , rle Colour Certificates before being shipped by this Company 's ves.iels .
" \Ve are , dear Sir , " Yours faithfully , " J. D. JAMES , " For the Managing Directors .
' ' Captai11 \Y .
do \V .
.A.buoy , C.B. , R.E. , " Science and Art Department .
" ' 368 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
APP EN DICES .
APPENDIX l. Statistics of Colour-blindness .
The following schools and institutions were examined by the Committee of the Oplitbalmological Society of London : W.est~inster School .
Jews ' School , Greek Stre\lt ; ;t , Eton .
Soho .
King 's College School .
Duke of York 's School .
University College School .
Foundling Hospital .
Christ 's Hospital ( Blue Coat Ilaverstock Orphan ARylum .
School ) .
Hanwell Lunatic Asylum .
Merchant 'raylors ' School .
Fulbourne Lunatic .1.lsylum .
Friends ' School , Saffron , Val den .
Deaf and Dumb Schools , Kent , , , , Scarborough .
Road .
, , , , York .
Metropolitan Police .
, , , , Ackworth .
Royal Na val School , Greenwich , .
, , Didcot .
St. Thomas 's Ilospital 1Iedical Ley 's School , Cambridge .
School .
Royal Medical Benevolent Col- Coldstream Guards .
lege , Epsom .
Beddington Orphan Asyluw .
City of London School .
Various Schools in Dublin .
Jews ' School , Bell Lane .
It will be observed that some of the foregoing institutions would supply subjects derived from Rpecial classes of per~on~ , such as Jews and deaf-mutes ; while others would be fairly representative of the whole community .
The examinations were conducted by Holmgren 's method , supplemented , in some instances , by the use of coloured lights , and the examiners , sixteen in number , were all of them surgeont:1 engag-ed iu ophthalmic practice .
The Committee introduced their Report Ly the following prefatory observations : " Your Committee becomes more and more convinced that a competent examiner is not made in a day , or even in a wonth , and that , even with large experience , much judgnlC'Ht a11d capacity are needful to interpret rightly the acts of the examined ?
'his necessity is perhaps most strongly exhibited in the case of mtelligent persons who an'l incompletely colour-bliud .
~uel : persons , though they may have a much feebler appreriation ~t the difference between red and green , for example , than is normal , may , after accurate observation and comparison , Reparate the red skeins of wool from the green .
When tested , hnwerer .
at .
v:=i , rious distances with coloured lights , their defects an : stnkmgly apparent , and it becomes clear that they are totally unfitted for responsible posts in which rapid appreciation of colour at a distance is required . . . .
: Colour-bli~clness is here taken as implying a defec~i , \#183 ; e rocogf\#183 ; mt , on of the difference between colours .
No account ui taken ' Report of the Committee on Colour- Visivn .
36H incapacity to dis_ting_u~sh bet\:7e~n di_fferent shades of oue colour , or even of an mab1hty to d1stmgmsh between such colours aR blue and violet or blue and green , when these are the sole defect : ; .
It is perfectly and clearly distinguished from a defective naming of colours , and from deficient acuteness of vision .
" The actual results of examination are stated as follows : " The total number of persons examined was 18,088 , of whom Hl,431 were males and 1,657 females .
.\#183 ; The examination of certain classes of persons was undertaken in the expectation of some peculiarities , which the result amply justified .
'"Deducting these , we have 14,8,16 males , of whom 617 were colour-blind , gi viug an average percentage of 4\#183 ; 16 .
Making similar deductions in the case of the females , we have 48\1 persons , with 0\#183 ; 4 per cent. And even this Slllall percentage is entirely made up of persons with very slight individual defects .
' ' Taking the exceptional groups of females , we find thm ; e of , Jewish extractio11 , the members of the Society of Friends , and the inmates of deaf and dumb asylums , to be more defecti\'e aR regardR colour than the average .
Thus , among the first ( 730 ) examined as high a percentage as 3\#183 ; 1 was touched , though the cases were almoi : ; t entirely of slight , character .
Among the members of the second\#183 ; group who happened to be the subjects of examination ( 21G in all ) the percentage was even somewhat higher ( 5\#183 ; 5 ) , though the cases were clearly evell slighter still .
Amm1g the deaf and duml , females ( 122 exa , mined ) there was a somewhat high percentage ( 2\#183 ; 4 ) of slight cases .
' ' Colour defects exceeded the average in the male members also of the same classes .
It is possible to draw more exact comparisons between the normal and colour-blind males than of females , because the former show much more pronounced caseH .
Tims , the slight individual differences of examiners will cease to l , e a source of error for males , for no examiners , however low the standard they exact , could omit to detect and record as colour-blind those penmns who matched red , or the full shades of brown or grey , with green .
" Enumerating in this manner , we have " Among males generally ( 14,846 examined ) 3\#183 ; 5 per cent. of pronounced cases .
" Among male Jews ( 949 examined ) 4\#183 ; 9 ditto , ditto .
" Amoug male Friends ( 491 examined ) 5\#183 ; 9 ditto , ditto .
, " Among male deaf and dumb ( 145 examiued ) 13\#183 ; 7 ditto , ditto .
\#183 ; It rnm ; t be noted , however , that the Jews were , on the 1n\#183 ; eru_ge , in a poorer condition of life thau any other class exarnmed. .
The deaf-mutes were mostly poor .
The Friends were mostly of the middle class ; their mistakes were chiefly C~1tfine~ to the pal\lt ; \gt ; r shades , and were therefore , in general , slig"ht 11 1 dPgn.e , especially as compared with the Jews , whose ~efectE\lt ; , though less numerically , were usually well pronounced ui character .
The wealthier Friends are much les8 liable to 370 Report of the Committee on Colour- \#189 ; sion .
colour-defects than their poor ; but even among them the males exceed the average .
" There are naturally difficulties attending the examination of the deaf-mutes .
But after repeated examinations had maue the process perfectly clear to them , it was apparent , from the nature of their mistakes , that there was am~ng t ?
em ~ very hil- !
'h average of colour-defects .
Those exammed mhab1t schools in London , and naturally live in a condition of considerable isolation from the surrounding world .
" It is worthy of note that , when in any class of persons colour-defects exceed the average in number and intensity there is often an unduly high proportion of red-blind as com~ pared with green-blind .
This is especially marked among the , Jews , for among them the pronounced cases of red-blindness were 3\#183 ; 6 per cent. of the whole number examined , against 1 \#183 ; 3 per cent. of green-blindness ; whereas among males generally the red-blind were 2 per cent. , and the green-blind 1\#183 ; 5 per cent. ' 1 A large number of male children ( 2,859 ) were examined in Dublin by Mr. Swanzy .
Their average is somewhat higher than that found in England , being 4\#183 ; 2 per cent. of pronounced cases .
But as the examinations were necessarily made by different hands , and as the boys examined in Dublin were , on the average , of poorer class than those furnishing the corresponding statistics in this country , we must be cautious in inferring a greater average percentage of colour-defects in Ireland than in England .
" Interesting results are derived from a comparison of the percentages in the different groups examined , especially with regard to their different positions in the social scale , by which is implied presumably a corresponding difference in education .
" Thus , in England , among the police ( 4,932 examined ) , and in schools of about the same social rank ( 1,729 examined ) , the pronounced cases form 3\#183 ; 7 per cent. In middle-class schools the same form 3\#183 ; 5 per cent. In the professional class , as represented by medical students and sons of medical men ( 435 examined ) , tho same form 2\#183 ; 5 per cent. Among the boys at Eton the same forw 2\#183 ; 46 per cent. " And even more striking instances are recorded in Ireland , !
Jy Swanzy , who finds the percentage among the sons of artisans and labourers ( 2,486 examined ) , to be nearly twice as great as among the sons of the professional and wealthier classes .
" Nor can any observer fail to be struck by the much greater certainty and rapidity with which the children of the upper classes pick out the various shades of the same colour .
.Aud thtJ momentary confusion of blue and green , which is not uncommon among the poorer classes , independently of any defect of colour\#183 ; vision , is very rarely seen among the others .
" The following report regarding the tests of a Japanese regiment was communicated by Mr. Brudenell Carter :Table of the Results of Investigations on Colour-blindness , RPport of the Committee on Colou1\#183 ; - \#183 ; vision .
371 First experiment made on the 20th ( clear-weather ) September , the 17th year of Meiji ( 1884 ) , from 9.5 a.m. to 5 p.m. Number of pei\#183 ; sons examined600 soldiers of the First Regiment of Infantry of the Tokio garrison .
Place of experimentA room in the Hospital of the First Regiment of Infantry .
Examinei-- 1\Iedical Officer of a Swedish man-of-war .
Assistants- Taniguchi Ken , 2nd-class Surgeon of the Imperial Army ; Ume Kiunojo , in the service of the Tokio University .
Jl ode of experimentTrials with woollen yarns .
Rf'.sults .
Red colour-blind Green , , Incomplete , , Weak colour-vision Total . .
= Second experiment made on the 22nd ( clear weather ) September , the 17th year of Meiji ( 1884 ) from 8.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Number of pe1\#183 ; s011s e.ramincd600 soldiers of the Third Regiment of Infantry of the Tokio garrison .
Place of expei\#183 ; imentA room of the Hospital of the Third Regiment of Infantry .
Examiners and mode of expei\#183 ; imentThe same as in the previous experiment .
Results .
Red colour-blind Green , , Iucomplete , , \Veak colour-vision Total 372 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
APPESDIX II .
BOARD OF TRADE TESTS .
The , following is the Circular : of _t~e Board of Trad\lt ; ' : relating to their colour tests .
The lummos1t1es and the dommant wa , u lengths have been shown in italics opposite the colours n~ed which will give an idea to the Committee of the utility of th~ colours employed , recollecting that the neutral point in the spectrum for the green colour-blind is about A5020 , and fur the red about .\4960 :- " ExAMJNATION IN COLOURS .
" Herewith are " ( a. ) A lanthorn having in it a lamp in which kerosine is to be burnt .
" ( b. ) A slide having ground glass in it .
" ( c. ) Nine slides , each having a coloured glass in it .
The colours are as follow :1 .
Red ( Standard ) 2 .
Pink or salmon 3 .
Green ( Standard or No. 1 ) . .
4 .
Green ( Bottle or No. 2 ) . .
5 .
Green* ( Pale or No. 3 ) G. Yellow 7 .
Neutral* 8 .
Blue ( Standard ) 9 .
Blue* ( Pale ) . .
Ground flues used " ( d. ) Cards , five of each , as follows:1 .
White 2 .
Black . .
3 .
Red . .
4 .
Pink* 5 .
Green 6 .
Drab* 7 .
Blue . .
K Yellow Luminosity Dominant in gasli"ht wave white :f.oo ' .
leni:th .
11 \#183 ; 2 42"5 10\#183 ; 0 5\#183 ; 7 20\#183 ; 0 so\#183 ; o 7 \#183 ; .5 2\#183 ; 5 7\#183 ; 5 58\#183 ; 0 16\#183 ; 5 7.5 8\#183 ; 0 6,200 5.190 5,720 4,650 6,150 6,630 5 , :JiO 5,770 4,750 5 , / j20 Report of the Committee on ColoU1\#183 ; - Vision .
373 " EXA !
IIINATION BY DAYLIGIIT ( CARDS ) . . .
In conducting the examination by daylight the examiner should do it in three ways : " 1 .
The cards should be mixed up .
The examiner should then hold up each card separately , and ask the candidate to name the colour ; and if the candidate does so without hesitation , he is to be regarded as having passed the daylight test .
" 2 .
If the candidate hesitates in any of his answers so as to raise a doubt in the mind of the examiner as to his ability to readily distinguish colours , the examiner should put all the cards on the taule and require the candidate to select all cards of a colour or colours named by the examiner .
" 3 .
Having done that , they should all be mixed up again , and the candidate should be required to sort the cards into eight heaps , putting all of one colour into each heap .
" 4 .
The result of the examination should be noted and recorded in each case .
" ExAllIINATION BY AnTIFICTAL LIGHT .
" The room should be dark .
" The lamp lighted and placed in the lanthorn .
" The applicant should be seated or should stand so as to be opposite to the opening of the lanthorn ; and , at least , 15 feet from the front of the lanthorn .
" Ile 1 : , hold fin , t of all see the light in the lanthorn without the interposition of any glass , and be asked if it appears to him to have any colour , and if so what colour ?
' ' The slide with the ground glass should then be put into the opeuing at the front of the lanthorn which is nearest to the light , and the applicant asked the same question .
" The Rlide with the ground glass is to be left in , and the slides with the coloured glasses placed one by one , and separately , in front of it , and the candidate asked in each case to name .
the colour or tint .
" The rn1:mlt of the examination should of course be voted and recorded in each case .
" GENERAL .
" The cards and glasses against \#183 ; which a star is placed in the li ; ;t are what may be called confusion tints .
The candidate is Hut to he rPgarded as having 'failed ' if he miscalls thes1 : tints , provided that he names all the others correctly .
Hut if , having named all the others correctly , he miscalls tlu:se so far as to name the drab card , No. 6 , as red , pink , 37 4 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
salmon , \amp ; c. ; or to name card No. 7 as red , green yellow ; or glas~ No. 2 as green , blue , or ye~ow ; or gla~~ No. 5 as red , pmk , salmon , \amp ; c. ; or glass No. 7 as bright red or bright green ; or the plain ground glass any colour the case should be .
repor~ed for .
record .
In ~hort , if th~ candidate 's perception or 1mpress1on of these tints does not agree with the perception of the examiner , the case should be reported on the Form Exn .
17B .
The only reasons for which a candidate is to be reported as having failed are inability to distinguish red from green or either from black , by daylight ; a !
1d _red_ from green , 0 ; either from the ground glass , by artificial light .
" If a .candidate fails in the colour test when the ground glass is in the lantborn ( as it is always to be when the coloured glasses are shown ) , he may also be tried over again with the coloured glasses without the intervention of the ground glass , and the result noted and recorded .
" The regulations under which candidates are admitted for examination are detailed in another circular ( a slightly altered revision of that previously in force ) issued in January , 1886 .
lt runs as follows : " COLOUR TESTS .
" The Board of Trade have made the following arrangements for the examination of persons as to their ability to distinguish colours : " 1 .
Examinations in colour are open to any person serving or about to serve in the Mercantile Marine .
" 2 .
Any person , including the holders of certificates of competency , or persons about to apply for certificates of competency , if desirous of being examined in colours onZlf , mm , 't make application to a Superintendent of a Mercantile :Marine Office on Form Exn .
2 " , and pay a fee of ls .
" 3 .
Ile must on the appointed day attend for examination at the examiner 's office ; and if be passes be will receiYe a certificate to that effect .
" 4 .
If he fails it will be open to him to be examined ag\#183 ; ain in colours as often as he pleases on payment of the fee of Is .
at each fresh attempt .
" 5 .
The application of a candidate who is presenting hi111se((fo1 .
examination for a master 's or mate 's ce1\#183 ; tijicate must lie made on Form Exn .
2 .
Such examination will commence with the colour test ; and if the candidate does not at the time of making application hold a certificate of competency of any grade , and should fail to distinguish correctly any one of the colours used in the test , be will not be allowed to proceed with the examination in navigation and seamanship .
Report of the Committee on Colour- V'ision .
375 , , 6 .
The fee he bas paid for examination for a certificate of competency will include the fee for the colour test , and , with the exception of ls .
, will in such event be returned to him .
" 7 .
A candidate for examination for a certificate of competency who at the time of making application does not possess a certificate , and who fails to pass the colour test , may not he re-examined until after the lapse of three months from the date of his first failure .
If he fails a second time he will be allowed a third trial at the expiration of another three months from the date of his second failure .
A fresh fee must be paid at each succeeding examination .
" 8 .
It is therefore obviously to the advantage of candidates for certificates of competency to apply in the first instance to be examined in colours only on .Form 2a .
" ti .
A candidate who holds a certificate of competency , and who on presenting himself for examination for a certificate of a higher grade is unable to pass the colour test , will notwithstanding be permitted to proceed with the examination in navigation and seamanship for the certificate of the higher grade .
H 10 .
f : hold he pass this examination , the following statement will be written on the face of the higher certificate which may be granted to him , viz. : ' This officer has failed to pass the examination in colours .
' " 11 .
Should he fail to pass the examination in navigation and seamanship , a like statement , relating to his being colourblind , will be made on his inferior certificate before it is returned to him .
" 12 .
Ilolders of c , ertificates which bear the statement of their having failed to pass in colours , and who may desire to have the statement removed from their certificates , must outain the special permission of the Board of Trade .
' ' APPENDIX III .
II01.r.rnu1\lt ; ;N 's METHOD 01\lt ; \#183 ; TESTING FOR Cor , oun .
The method of testing consists in asking the candidate to \#183 ; elect from variously coloured objects those which appear of the 11ame colonr as one which the examiner selects .
The most suitable objectR anrl at the same time the most readily obtainable are .
skeinR of wool , which cau be procured of almost every les~rerl hue and tona .
Another advantage of skeius of wool , 1es1des po1t.auility , is that , owing to their want of gloss , they ' PP~r of approximately the Harne tone from whichever side they are view , L Tho colours of the Hkeins to be selected include rerlR , oranges , ) cllows , yellowis~-greeLJs , pure greens , blue-greens , HII . .
1,1 , 2 C :376 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
blues violets , purples , pinks , browns , and greys .
Seve 1 shad~s of eaeh colour , with at least five grad~tions of each ti : shoul\lt ; ;l be P !
'o~ured , f~om the deepe8t t ?
the lightest gr~ns and greys .
V aneties of pmks , blues , and v10lets , and of light gre together with shades of brow~\ yellow , red !
and _Pink , must \amp ; ; espec~ally well represented .
I he test skems wit~ which the exammees are to compare the c_olours shoul~ be three m wnuber : a light green , a pa~e purp~e ~r pmk , and a_bnght red .
TheHe thre~ colours will su~ ce to mdi_cate appr~ximately ~he amount awl kind of colour-blmdness which may exist .
The light green ~keiu which is a tolerably pure green mixed_ with a large proportir,1 ; of white , is chosen as the colour which closely matches the spectrum colour which the rEJd- and green-blind distingui~h a , white or grey .
It is chosen of a pale tint , as it then beconw~ puzzling to the colour-blind to distinguish its colour hy itR luminosity .
A light grey or drab skein will present the same brightness to him that this pale colour does , and although he may be trained to distinguish bright colours by their relative luminosities , in the case of these pale varieties he will be unaLle to do so .
The light purple or pink is chosen for similar rea~ous , and in fact it is nearly a complementary colour to the gree11 .
the purple is , according to the Young-Helmholtz theory , a mixture of two fundamental colours , the blue and the red , and ris in the green-blind it excites hoth the blue and red sensations it may be confused with grey , or with a green .
In the red colourblind it excites iu excess the blue sensation mixed with what tliev call white .
.A .
blue or violet may therefore be matched with it : The method of examination is as follows : " ~Method of Exwnination and Diagnosis .
" The Berlin wools are placed in a heap on a large table .
covered by a white cloth , and in broad daylight .
A skein of the test-colour is taken from the pile , and laid far enough away from the others not to be confounded with them during tbr examination .
The person examined is requested to select other skeins from the pile most nearly resembling it in colour , awl to place them by the side of the sample .
At the outset , it is necessary that he should thoroughly understand that he is required to search the heap for the skeins which make an impression oil his chromatic sense , iind quite independeutly of any nawe !
1e may give the colour , similar to that made by the test-sktmi , The examiner should explain that resemblance in every respect is not necessary ; that there are no two specimens exactly alike ; that the only question is the resemblance of the colour ; and that , consei]uently , he must e11deavour to find something similar in tshadc , something lighter and darker of the same colour , \amp ; c. If the person examined cannot succeed i.r1 nuder\#183 ; standing this by a verbal explanation , resort must be hal~ to action .
The examiner should himself pick out the i_ ; keius , thereby showing in a practical manner what is meaut by a ~ !
iade , Proc R0 , Snr Vr , Z , 51.PZ : J. I. Color Blindness .
Ila .
G 7 8 9 Red B !
z"ndness .
Green Blindness .
Ilb .
Red Blinducss .
Green Blz"ndness .
W .
GRIGGS , LITI- ' R.111ort of tlw Committee on Cvlou1\#183 ; - Vision .
377 and thtn re , - ; tore the whole to the pile , except the sample-skein .
As it would require too much time to examine every individual iu this way , it is advisable , when examining large numbers , tu instrud thPm all at once , all(l to ask them to attentively observe the examination of those preceding them , so as to becoml:l more familiar themselves with the process .
This saves tin1e and there is no loss of Recurity , for uo one with a defecti , \#183 ; e chromatic sern , e will be able to finJ the correct skeins in the \#181 ; ile the more easily frm~ haYing a momeut_ before seen others looking for and arrangmg them .
He will make the same eharar , teristic mistakes ; but the normal observer , on the other ltand , will gt'nerally accomplish his task much better and more 11uickly after ha vi11g- seen how it bas to be done .
.\#183 ; The coloured plate ( see Plate II ) is for the purpose of a ; ;sisting the examiner in the choice of his colours , and to help him to drcide the character of the colour-blindness from the mistake~ ma\lt ; le .
The colours in the plates are of two characters:- . .
1st .
The colours for samples ( test-colo1trs ) ; that is , those which the examiner pre:- ; euts to the persons examine\lt ; l ; and \#183 ; .
2nd .
The 'co1ifusio1i colours ; ' that is to say , those which the colour-blind will select as matches with the : : ; ample .
'\#183 ; The first are shown on the plate as horizontal bands , and are distiugni : : ; head by Roman numerals ; the second as vertical bands , nuder the tmit-colnu_rs , ai1d are distinguished by Arabic figures .
" The coloured table is not intendP-d to be uRed as a test ; it is ; ;imply to assist the examiner in his choice of correct test-colours , and to help him to diagnose the special form of colour-blindness .
" As to the similarity between the confusion-colours of the plate , and the wool ; ; which the colour-blind take from the lieap , reliauce must be vlaced simply on the hue , and not on tlwir brightuess or degree of colour saturation .
In all cases where we have to vary from this rule we must hold to the relative rather than the absolute saturation .
The confusioncolours sl1ow11 iu the plato are only to illustrate the mistakes wliieh the colom-bliud will make , and for this purpose they serve perfectly .
Ilavi11g- made this explanation , we can pass directly !
o the test itself .
The following arn the directions for conclm:trng it , and for \#183 ; 111aki11g a diagno:sis frum the resnlts : .
, TEsT I.-The green test-skein is prese11ted .
This sample 8hould he the palest shade ( the lightest ) of very pure grnen , which is ueitl1er a yellow-green nor a blue-green to the normal eye , but fairly intermediate between the two , or at least not verging upon yellowish-gn"ell .
\#183 ; .
/ tufr.-Tlw exu111inatio11 must .
eo11tinue until the examinee lia-i pla\lt ; \#183 ; pJ near the test-skeiu all the other skeins of the same t\#183 ; ol1Jur , or ebe , with these or :- ; eparately , oue or more skeins of the ehu1 : : ; of ' confusion colnHnl ' ( 1- 5 ) , or until he has sufficiently .
prnve_J by hit ; mannn th , tt he can easily a11d unerringly db- 11.n~uush ~be conl"usiu11 colours , or given umnistakable proof of a d11\1c11lty Ill u , :cumpli~hing\#183 ; it .
:1 C 2 ~78 Report of the Committee on CuloU ?
\#183 ; - Vision .
" Diagnosis.-An examinee who places with the test-skei , confusion colours : ( 1-5)-that is to_ say . ?
finds t~at it re~enible : the , test-colour ' -1s colour-blind , w h1lst 1f he evmres a manifest disposition to do s ?
, though he does not absolutely do so , he has a feeble chromatic sense .
" Remarlc.-W e might have taken mm\#183 ; e than five colours for , confusion ; ' but we.must remem1 ?
er that we are not taking int-0 consideration evei\#183 ; y kmd of defective colour-sense , but only those which are important in connection with railways .
" As to No. 1 , which represenis a grey , we would remark that too much stress must not be laid on its luminosity , or on any slight difference in its hue from the grey skeins which the examinee puts with the sample .
" If it is only required to determine whether a perwm is colourblind or not , 1 .
0 further test is necessary , but if we want to know the kind arnl degree of his colour-blindness , then we must proceed with the next test .
" TEST IL-A pnrple skein is shown to the examinee .
The colour should be midway between .
the lightest and darke~t .
It will only approach that given in II of Plate 11 , as the colour of the wool is mueh more brilliant and saturated , and bluer .
" Rule.--The trial must be continued nntil the examinee !
Ja.q placed all or the greater part of the skeins of the same ~bade JJear the sample , or else , simultaneously or separately , on ' or more skeins of the confusion-colours ' ( 6-9 ) .
If bP eonfirnes the colours he will select either the light or deep shade\gt ; ' of hluc and violet , especially the deep ( 6 and 7 ) , or the light or dt\#183 ; t:\gt ; p shade , of one kind of green or grey inclining to blue ( 8 arnl '.I ) .
" Diagnosis.- ! .
A person who is proved colour-hliud by tlu : first test , and who , in the second test , selects only purple skPi11~ .
is incompletely coloui\#183 ; -blind .
" 2 .
If , in the second test , he selects with the purples blue and violet , or one of them , he is completely red-blind .
'\#183 ; 3 .
If , in the second test , he selects with purplP only green and grey , or one of them , he is completely green blind .
" Remarlc.-The red-l1liud never selects the colours taken hy the green-blind , and vice versa .
The green-blind will oft1111 plaC'e ~ violet or blue skein by thP side of the green , but it will then only be the brightest shades of these colours .
This does not affect the diagnosis . .
" the fact that , in this test , many green-blind select .
hesH !
es \#183 ; grey and green or one of these colours , also bright blne , ha11 led ro rnisundPrst:rnding .
Senne Jmve concluded from this that nid and green blindneHF- may exi : : ; t tog-ether in the same individual ; others have thought that these two kinds of colour-blindness are _e not readily distingui , d1ed by this method .
The first conclusion 1s ?
0t correct .
The two kinds of colour-blindness have o-reat similarity , but differ in innn111erable slight variations .
11iey are to be considered nc ; two sharply defined classes . .
" The se \#183 ; und conclusion can only arise from not un\lt ; lerstauding Repoi\#183 ; l of the Committee on Colour- Vi8ion .
37U and not Ul'ling the method correctly .
The especial purpose of this method must be kept constantly in view , viz. , to fiu\lt ; l the characteristics of the defects in colour-perception of those examined .
The characteristic of green-blindness is the confusion of pur\#181 ; le with grey or green , or both .
This confusion is the point to be determiued : everything else may be neglected .
A. complete colour-blind , who confuses purple with grey or green ( bluishgreen ) , or with both , is green-blind , do what else he may .
This is the rule , and the carefol and ubservaut examiner who understands tho application of the test , will at once distingllish it .
It is , i11deed , often possible , ill marked eases of incomplete colourblindness , to \lt ; lecide to which class it belongs to by the way the examiued acts with his hauds .
vVe do not mean by this that the diagnosis is always very easy .
Pi-adice and knowledge are necessary .
As there is a long series of degrees of incomplete colour-blindne , ; s between nurmal viRion ou the one hand , and cmnplete colour-blindneRs ou the other , there must naturally be a border line where differeuces of the two kinds of colourlJlinduess cease to be reeognised .
" The examination may eud with this test , and the diagnosis be considered as perfectly settled .
It is not even n1ccessary , practil\#183 ; ally , to decide whether the culour-blinduess iR red or green .
But to more thoroughly convince railway employs and others , who are uot s1:wcialists , of the reality of the colour-ulind1less , the examination 111 .
tie be completed by one more test .
It is uot neces , ; ary to the diagnrn , is , and only 1::1erves as a confirmation .
' ' TEST : !
.IL-The reel skein is presented LO the exami11ee .
It is necessary to have a vivid re\lt ; l colour , like the red flag used as signals 011 railways .
\#183 ; 1 he colour should be that of Ilb of the plate , rather towards yellowish-red .
" Hule.-Tliis test , which is apply d only to those completely colonr-bli11cl , should be co11tin11ect until the person examined has placed lie ; ; id the test skein all the skeins belonging to this hue or the greater part , or else one or more 'confusion colours ' ( I 0-13 ) .
The red-blind chuuses , besideR the red , green and shades of brown , which ( 10-11 ) , to the normal sense , : , eem darker thau n~d .
On the other hand , the green-blind selects i-hacles of these colouni , which appear lighter than red ( 1 : : !
-13 ) .
" Nrmarl:.-Evcry case of c\#183 ; om1 , a.ratively complete colonr-blindllt'Ss _\lt ; loes not always make the precise mistakes \#183 ; we have just lllentwned .
These exceptious are either instances of pen ; urn ; w~1n are not quite completely culour-Lli11d , or of completely colourLlmd persons who have Leen practised in the colours of signals , a , ul who endeavour 110( to Le diseuvereu .
They usually coni'ouncl at least gTePll and l1rown ; but even this does not always ha~ , pen .
" ,1fo , w - chro1,1atic Vi .
, io11.-The absence of all except 011e c , luur H~_m , m.tion , will be recognise , !
hy the eonfu !
:liOLL of every hue havmg tho same intensity of lio\#183 ; ht .
' ' Viotet-blinrluess will be recogni ; ed by a gem1ine confusion of purJJle , red , and orange in the 8econ\lt ; l test .
The diagnosis 8hou1d 380 Report of the Committee on Colom\#183 ; - l"i : , sion .
he made with discrim1 ina ; io~r1.1 .
The fin , !
test oft:en flhows blue to be a ' confusion co our .
11s may , m certam ca , ; es be th sign of violet-bliodnes~ , but not always._ \ " , ~ e have not thougt~ it advisable to recognmc defects of ~his km~ ; and only the marked cases , that other tests establish as YJOlet colour-blind nesR , should be reckoJ1ed in the statistics .
' ' \#183 ; Di : .
, Toy , Jeffries , in , bis b~ok ~n c_olour-blindne8s , giYes R transl_atio_n of Ilolmgreu 8 ; ; ; pecial direct10ns for conducting the exammations : " Special Direction.~ for Conducting the Test .
" The method , as we have s:iid , plays an importaut part in an examination of this kind , not only I rom the principln ; u\#181 ; on which it rests .
but al ; ; ; o from the manner in which it is used .
The i:x:Ht plan for directing how to proceed is by oral im , tructiuns and de risu ; but here we are obliged to accomplish this by\lt ; lescriptio1 .
Now , this is always defective in some respects , PSp !
:'cially 1i ,1 . .
wish to be brief .
What has been said would evirle11tly snffite for an intelligent and experie11ced physician ; but it .
may Hot ] , p imperfluous to enter still further into detail to provide Ul{ai~ , t any possible difficulties and loss of time .
The object of the examination is to discover the nature of a person 's clirurnat c sense .
Now , as the fate of the 011e to be examined and that of otherR depend upon the correctness of the judgme11t prono1111ced " ky the Pxaminer , and that this judgment should be based uprn the manner in whi"h the one examined stands the trial , it is t , f importance that this trial should be truly what it ought to hc , -a trial of the nature of the chromatic sense , and nothing- el , e , -an end that will be gained if our clin:'ctions are strictly followed .
lt is not only necesRary that the examiner Rhould carefully ohscrrn them-which does not seem tons difficult-but that he al , .
; o slinnld take care that the indivirlual examined does thoroughly what is required of him .
Thi , .
; iR not always as easy as one 111iglt suppmie .
If it were only required to examine intelligent p\lt ; 'opll\#183 ; , familiar with practical occupations and especially with eolonr , ' .
and with no other intereRt connected with the issue tJf tJ , .
, examination than to know whether they are colour-blind or.no : , the examination would lw uniform a11d mechanical ; bnt it 1~ required to examine people uf various degrees of culture .
all of whom , besides , have a personal interest in the iRsne of till ' examination .
Different people act very differently d11ri11g tlir examination for many reasons .
Some submit to it without the least suspicion of their defect ; others are convinced that the.\ ' pmisess a normal sense .
A few only have a consciousucA~ , or at l1 ; last some suspicion , of their defect .
These last can often be recognised before exa.mi1rntion .
They will keep bellinJ t~e others , an~ att~n.tively foll\lt ; ?w the progress of the t~ia.l ; and .
; ' allowed , will w1llmgly remam to the last .
Some are qmck ; other , : slow .
The former approach unconcernedly and hnltllY ; !
bt latter , with over-anxiety and a certain dread .
Sorne ha , \#183 ; e been Report of the CommittPe on Colow\#183 ; - Vision .
381 perhapR already teRted , and practised themselveR in preparation for the trial ; others have never Leen familiar with colours .
Among those already tested Rome may be colour-blind .
Some of these latter are uncertain about their mistakes , and act with great care ; whilst others again , having been practised in disti11guii , hing- signals , conclude that their colonr-sense is perfect .
They make the trial quickly and without thought ; of course regularly making the mistakes characteristic of their special form of colour-blindness .
" The majority , however , desire to perform their task as well as poFIRible ; that is , to do what the normal-eyed does .
This of course assist " in testing them .
provided it does not lead to too great care , as then the testing the colour-blind is more difficult ; the trouble being that much time is thus wasted .
Only a very , ; mall part have a contrary desire ; namely , to pass for colourblind , though normal-eyed .
\i\T e will speak of these later , and now only concern ourselves with those who stand the test in good faitli with the desire to appear normal , though perhaps they are colour-blind .
'\#183 ; The trial generally goes on rapidly and regularly .
We will only 111eution those hindrances and peculiarities which most frequently occur .
The examiner must watch that no mistake is made from not 11nderstaudi11g .
The names of the colqur need no , er he ui-ed , except to ascertain if the name learned hides the :-nbjective colour-sensation , or to find the relation between the nanie the colour-blind employs and his colour-perception .
" The person examined who thinks more of 11ames than the test it , - ; elf ( this bein~ gi~nerally a sign of school-learning ) selects not ouly the wools of the Rame shades-that is , those of the :- ; a.1110 colour to hiR eye-but all which generally have the na.me of thiR colour : for instance , in the first test I , not only the green like the sample , but all that are green ; and with the l'\lt ; econd test , not only the purple ( and what are generally called red ) , but all which luok reddish , scarlet , cinnabar , or sealing-wax red .
This is of no importance ; for those who only do this have scarcely such defective chromatic sense as that with which we are cow\#183 ; erned .
11 o is either normal-eyed or violet-blind .
Simply a:- ; a ~est of violct-tlindness in the interest of science , we can go ou w1lh the examination , and aRcertain how far the grouping of the two colours was due to a confusion of names or to defective colour-perception .
Otherwise this examination does not concern the praetic-al point we aim at . .
" lTnder any circumstance it iR bPtter to correct the mistakes Jtrnt mentioned , when ::i.rising from misu11derstanding , and it is evPn 11 ~('ess:try , _ in reference to the mistakes we explained might occur with _the first test .
It might lw Raid that it was sufficient if the PXam !
n " ?
c , mfonncled the test-colour \#183 ; with green only ; that it ':a.i_ 1mhf~P1cut whether hP distinguishes carefully between the '~nous k111\lt ; !:- of grem1 .
But , in fact , this is not so unimportant .
\\ e must give full weight as to whether the infraction of the 382 Report of the Committee on Colour-Vi:sion .
rules arises from misuuderstanding , or lack of practice wit } colours , or , finally , from a true chromatic defect .
To ui ' .
elude all that is green :woul~ render the test tedious and nnpractical .
In fact , no J1ttle JUdgmeut has been exercised iu the selection of the v:er ) ' .
hghtes~ shade of the green proposed a.R a test-colour ; for 1t 1s exactly what the colour-blind most readily confounds with the colours ( 1-5 ) of the plate .
If the ex. aminee\#183 ; were allowed to depart from the narrow limits established by the trial , it would include every shade of green ; the re8u1t of which would be that he would prefer to select all the , \#183 ; ivid shades , and thus avoid the dangerous ground where his defoct would certainly be di~co_vered . .
'l'h~s !
S why it .
is n~cessary tu oblige him to keep w1thm certam limits , confirnng Lun to pure , o-reen specimens , and , for greater security , to recommend liim to select especially the lightest shades ; for , if he keeps to the darker shades , as many try to do , he readily passes to other tones , and loses himself on foreign ground , to the great loss of time and of certainty of the test .
what we have just said of green applies also , of course , to 1-JUrple .
" The principle of our method is to force tho examinee to reveal , by an act of his own , the nature of his chromatic seut ; e. Now , as this act must be kept within certain limits , it is evident that the examiner must direct him to some extent .
This may present , in certain cases , some difficulty , as he will 11ot always , i be guided , and does either too much or too little .
In both cases the examiner should use his influence , in order to save time and gain certainty ; and this is usually very easily done .
This interventiou is of course intended to put the examinee in the true path , and is accomplished in many ways , according to the case in point .
" We will here mention some of the expedients we have fonll(l useful:- " ( A ) Interfering when thtJ Examined select too many Colours .
" It is not always easy to confine the one Axamiued within the limits of the method .
He easily slips amongst the :-orted colours for the first test , for example , a yellow-green or blut'-QTeen i : ; ktiu among tho others , and , as soon as there is one , ( )t her:-i follow usually ; and it thus happens that iu a few moment : , ; he lia~ a whole handful of yellow-green , a second of blue-green , a third of both these shades at the same time .
Our procedure has tu ; i--isted us in more than one case of this kind .
" ( a ) When the person examined has beo-un to select shades of one or several other colours than those of the sample , his ardour is are \amp ; ted by taking from him the handful of skeins hcl h_ll8 collected , and aski11g him whether his eye does not tell buu there are one or several which do not match the others , 1H which case he is solicited to restore them to the pile .
He thei , generally remarks that there is some obscuration and prm\#183 ; eed , in one of the following manners:- ' " 1 .
He rejects , one after the other , the foreign shades , 60 Aeport of the Committee on Colow\#183 ; - Vision .
383 that the correct remain , which is often only the sample-skeiu .
He is shown what mistake he has made .
Name : ; ; are used to remind him that one class of green may be yellow-green ; and another .
blue-green ; and , to iuduce h im to avoid them , he is advised only to select skeins of the same shade as the 8pedmen , although they be lighter or darker , and have neitLer more yellow nor blue rhan that .
If his first error arose only from a misconception or , vant of practice in handling colours , he begins geuerally to understand whaL he has to du , and to do properly what is req nired of him .
' ' 2 .
Or else he selects and rejects immediately the skein of the sample itself .
This proves that he sees the difference of colour .
Ile is then shown the skeiu as the only ( 'Orreet one , and asked to repeat the trial in a more correct mauuer .
He is again put on the right track as just before ; and the trial proceeds rig\#183 ; htly , unless the error arose from a defect in the chromatic sense .
Many seem , however , to experience a natural difficulty in distiuguishing between yellow-green and blue-green , or the dnll shades of green and blue .
This difficulty is , however , more apparent than real , and is corrected usually by direct comparison .
If the method requiriug the name of the colour to be given i. , ; used , a number of mistakes may be the result .
If a skein of light green and light blue alone are presented to Lim , asking him to name them , he will often call blue green , and green blue .
But if , in the first case , a blue skein i , - ; immediately shown him , he corrects hi : ; mistake by saying 'this is blue , ' and ' that green .
' In the laot ca:- , e it happens so 11wtatis 11 , utanclis .
This is not the place for au explanation .
H must suffice to say thaL the error is corrected by a \lt ; lirect comparison between the two colour : ; ; .
" There is , according to the theory , one class of the colourblindviolet-blind-who , in consequence of the nature of their chromatic sense , and , therefore , notwithstanding the comparison , cannot , li--ting-uish blue and green .
But out\#183 ; method has nothing to do with this r\#183 ; la::Js of the colour-blind , because sud.1 are Lvt dangerous on railwayi : ; .
" ( b ) Another Pro ; ess.-If the one oxamined place hy the side of the immplfl a shade , for in\lt ; :ta11ce .
of yellow green , the e.xawiuer places near ihis anolher shade , in which there is more yellow , or even a !
'Ure yellow , remarking , at the same time , that , if the fir ?
t snit , the hst must abio .
The other usually dissents from tlu::1._ Ile is ihen shown , by selecting and classing the inter111~\#183 ; rhate shadeR , that there is a g-ra\lt ; lation , which will diverge widely _if lngicall , v c:nrie\lt ; l out as he has begun .
The same course IH followed with colours of th\\ blue shades , if the bluef .
, ' Tl !
Cll W\lt ; !re fir , - ; t selected .
He sees the successive gradatious . !
lnd g'tJOs throug-h with this test p\lt ; irfectly if his chromatic sem ; e 1s 1\#183 ; 01rect .
" To a~\lt ; \#183 ; .\#183 ; rtain further whethPr he notices these addition:- , or the tints of yellow and blue in the gre\lt ; 0 n , we can ourselves take the yellow-g-wcn and blue-green to a : , ; k him if he finds thi : , ; to be 384 Report of tli.e Committee on Colour- Vision .
so .
vVe can judge by )1is answ~r .
of hi~ Re_11se_ with regard to these shades , and the obJ~ct of th1R mvest1gat10n 1s accomplished .
" It resultR from all this that many who are fiually considere l to have a normol chromat~c sense may occasionally caus~ embarrassment .
In the mam , the normal observer of this kind causes greater loss of time than the colour-blind .
It j , aRt ?
njshing to see wi~h :what rapi_dity the ~ol ?
ur-blind hetra ; their defect .
At least 1t 1s found , m the maJonty of the ca~e~ examined by us , that the first skein of wool selected from the pile by the colour-blind ia the first test was one of the 'colours of confusion .
' " ( B ) Inte1fe1\#183 ; ing when the Examined select too few Wonts .
" Those who evince too great slowness al ; , o require the inlnferences of the examiner in another manner .
We can lay asidii here those cases in which , at the sight of the complex colours oftlrn heap of wool , the examined finds it difficult to select a Rkeiu resembling the sample in a collection where all the particular colours seem to differ from each other , and in consequence dedan,6 immediately that he can find none resembling the specimen .
It is replied that au absolute resemblance is not demanded , arni that no one asks impossibilities ; that time is limited , many ai " waiting , \amp ; c. But there are people who-from natural slowne , , , from being unaccustomed to such bm , iness , from fear of making mistakes , especially if they have been previously examined nml been suspected of colour-blindness , or frum many other mllves-\#183 ; proceed with the greatest caution .
They do not ernn wii ; h to touch the wool ; or they search , Relect , and replace with tl.r greatest care all the possible skeins without finding one t\#183 ; o1responding with the sample , or that they wish to place be !
-ide it .
Here , then , are two cases : on one hand , too m11ch action with the fingers , without re , ,ult ; on the other , too little effort .
The examiner is forced to interfere in both cases .
" ( a ) At the time of a too great manual action , without corresponding practical result , the examiner must be raretnl that the eye and hand act simultaneously for the accompfo1hment of the desired end .
" Some people forget that the hands should be subservie11t lo the eye ill this trial , and not act independently .
Thus they arP often seen to fix their eyes on oue side while their hands ar~ engaged on the other .
This shonld be corrected , so l\'1 to t~vt\#183 ; time and avoid further labour .
When , frolll the maunal actlnty of the one examined , or b_y the unobserved aid of the exaunnt\gt ; i\#183 ; \#183 ; all the correct skeins , or only a portion , are found in the pile : 11 i~ wise to stop , and invite the former to croRs his hands brh_uid hui back , to step back a pace , and quietly consider all the skrrn~ , and , as Roon as his eye bas met one c , f those for which l_w is looking- , to extend his hand and take it .
The best plan 1s to advise him to look first at the sample , and then at the pile .
~nd to repeat this manreuvre imtil his eyes fi 11d what he is luokwg\#183 ; for .
Repo1\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
385 " This stratagem generally succeed , : when nervousness from oYer-anxiety causes his hands to trenible ; but it is not alway-4 easy to induce him to keep his hanrl8 behind hi8 back until tlw moment for taking the skein in question .
" ( b ) In cases of great caution , the trial is hastened , if the examiner come to the assistance of the other , by holding aboYe the pile one skein after the oth\lt ; ~r , and requesting him to sll.y whether it resembles the colour of tho sample or not .
It will be advisable first to select the skeins that a colour-blind person would approrn .
If he is so .
he will approve of the selection , and the question is settled ; if not , he rejects them , not without a characteristic smile , or with an expres : ; ion of wounded dignity .
This also enlightens us as tu his chromatic sense .
But even the colour-blind may , in such a case , refuse what is prtlsented , especially if his caution is premeditated , and he suspects that a snare is intended .
It is found quite frequently that he reject8 the correct shades likewise pnisented with the others .
This is not the case when one , having a uormal chromatic sense , is slow and deliberat i \'e when suujecfed to the tci , ; t u1Jcler this form .
He has an eye alive to the correct colours .
' ' Uno process , in caf-les of tliis last kind , is to select false samples , which are .placed clos0 to the correct one , by the side , above , or l\gt ; elow , to attract the atteution of the examined from the right side .
It is necessary so to proceed that the true sample be di:-iplaced when the others are drawn out , so that the person examined may see it , move .
It does not , however , always happen to catch his eye .
The best means is then to make him examine tlw whole , with his hatH.ls behind his IJack , and invite him to freely make his choice .
Hut , whatever the process , it if-l necessary , in every case where one has been assisted in selecting :i certain number of skeins which he has found analogous to the sample-colour , to make a rule not to conclude the trial without examiuing into the effect of the aid accorded .
It is necessary to hold in ihf ' band the approved package , and ask if he ii ; satisfied , o : if he_ w_ old de~ire any change .
If he approve the choice , the d1agnos1s 1s establtshed .
The same course must be pursued with the defective chromatic sense , that the trial may be made with or with01 !
t asi ; istance .
To be thorough , the name given by the colour-blind to the colours i11 quef-ltion may be likewise asked .
" I _n cases where any one Ruspected .o f colour-blindness haf-l 11:mamed some time to see the trial of others , and where \#183 ; e , as olte~ H1ppe11s , he has remarked the samples belonging to a re_q111re\lt ; l g-reen shade , he may of course profit by it in his own tnal .
But this can be prevented by furtively concealing one or 1.wo of those , :arnples .
If he Reem to be disposed to cn11found greL\#183 ; 11 and grey , it will be very easy to entrap him .
If we do uot sncce\lt ; 'd : even wl1en assisting- him , iu entrapping him in this .mare , the hHlden snmples may be put back into their places , to ho co11v111c1- , d that the trial is correct .
' ' From the above , it is seen that many artifices may l \#183 ; e 386 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
necessary in our examination .
It may be regarded as lln advantage of our method that it bas at comm3:ud a great variety of ret , ; ources .
We have by_ no m~an~ me~ t10ned all ; and yet mally who have only read th1s descnpt10n will probably reproach ut , ; with having devoted ourselves too much to details whil:h seem to them puerile .
But we believe that those who have examined the chromatic sense of a great number of persons , and ac\lt ; 1uired thereby considerable experience , will thiuk differently .
\#183 ; \#183 ; vVe are couvinced that time i , 'l saved by such artifices , a1J\lt ; l 11 more certaiu resuh obtained ; whilst a practised snrgPon , who has become to a certain degree a virtuoso , will accomplish his object quicker and surer by such artifices than one who neglect8 them .
Recent experience fully confirms this .
All those who have famifoirised themseh\#183 ; es with my method , and have hart experi@ce with colour-blindness , and of whose competence three can be no doubt , report , without exception , that it is to Le fully depe !
!ded on the most practical a11d the best .
' ' An advantage of the method was shown to be that those who were to be examined could be present and see each i11diYitlnal tested , without this interfering in the least with the certai11ty 01 the resnlt .
The individual test is even hastened thereby .
Thu colour-blind , and ove11 the normal-eyed who are not familiar wit I : colours , are generally.rather shy about being tested , in whaten , way it is done .
.:b the method , however , is carried out , they Im'"~ more coufidence .
The majority are even amused .
The old adagt .
holds true here , that it is eaBier to find fault than to do it your.self .
The surgeon , who watches not only the examined .
but !
tlso those aronud , can often see from their faces how cli , srly the latter obsene the person being tested when he takes out th~ wroDg colours , as also when he neglects the rig\#183 ; ht 0lles nlldPr his eye .
'l'hiB gives those looking on confidence and as ; iurarwe , till their tum comes , when they appear as uncertain as befure they were confident .
There is something attractive iu tl , e _process , stimulu.ting the interest , and hence is not without l\gt ; endit .
" From this we see that our judgment of a persu11 's coloursense is made , not only by the material result of the examinatio11the character of the wools selected-but often also by the way the examined acts during the test .
\Ve should mention a \ t'f , \ common manner of persons on trial which in many cases , i~ of great value in diagnosis .
Often , in ~earchi~g for the right col\lt ; nn .
they s1:1ddenly seize a skein to lay it with the sample ; but !
\1e 11 ~Dt1ce it does not correspond , and put it back in the heap . .
I h.~ is very characteristic ; and , if au examiner has often seen 1t .
lw can readily recoguise and be assured that it is an exprc:-sit(ll of difficulty in distinguishing the differences in the coloms .
\\ e frequently see this i11 the first test , with shade.- ; of greeniHh-lil_u ' and bluish-green .
Here it means nothing important ; but it i1:\gt ; qwte the reyerse , however , when it concerns the grey or one of the confus1on-colours ( 1-i'i ) .
Uncertainty and besitatiou as to t !
telW colours , which the colom-blind do not distinrruish from the trHt b Rcp01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colom\#183 ; - l ~ision .
087 colonr even when directly comparing them , is positive proof of mistake , implying defective chromatic vision of_ the compl~te c-0lonr-blind type .
No doubt the form of chromatic defect which we have called incomplete colour-blindness exists in several kinds and degrees .
This is not the place to further discuss our experience on this point ; and , for the practical P'.1rpose we have in view , it is not n\lt ; \gt ; cessary .
As we have explamed , there are , among this class , forms gradually approaching normal colour8ense .
How they are distiJJguished has been described .
We designated them as possessing jef'ble colow\#183 ; -sen.se .
" lt is , perhapR , not easy to detect this special form by any other mchod , or even Lie our own ; we therefore give the following\#183 ; as a means of so doing .
The only way of getting at it is by determining at what distance the examined can tlistiuguish a small coloured surface .
\Ve have to do , in fact , with a feeble colour-sense , which does not prevent the colours from being distinguislwd , but only renders it difficult .
We may suppose , in comparison to the normal- that the feeble colour-sense is due either to a weaker resprmse to the stimulation of the colour-perceptive orgam ; of the retina , or else to a stimulation of a relatively Rmaller numlJer of these orgarn , .
fo either case this method would give us the same result , jndging from our experience in testing the eccentric portions of the field of vision with the perimeter .
" The method we here RpPak of Rhows us also the effect of habit and practice on the colour-perception , and it is worth while to dwell on this point .
It not unfrequently happens that a person who by test No. I has been noted 'incomplete colour-blind , ' after they know of their mistake and have practised themselveR in disliugnishing colours , will so comport themselves at a second 1rial that we have to simply mark them as of 'feel\gt ; le colonrtem , e. ' This fact might support Dr. Favre 's idPa that defecti'rn chromatic vision may be improved .
This possibility , however , does not militate againRt our hypotheRis from the theory , are to tho nature of feeLle colour-sense .
It does not change our Rtandpoint in the rpiestion .
The same will sometimes happen with test No. II , a1Hl it is explainable by what we have saiil ; namely , that , Let.ween the complete lack of chromatic sense al1(1 th,1 iucomplete , there is a series of gradations , and that in such cai , ; es practice woukl affect the result of examinations .
" All the examples given prove that many seeming trifles and stratagems are of valne in making the examination-amongst others the keeping th0 sample a little way off from the heap of worst_eds , :u , also the removal of everything which can canRe tlw \#171 ; 'xm11111ed doabt mid uncertainty .
We must not , therefore , let t ht\gt ; m rlo what many want to do ; namely , hold a unmber of the wor , ; ted ; ; i11 the hall(l at once .
We mrn , t make the person being exa111i11ecl place each skein , are he takes it up , either with the Rample or l'lf\lt ; f !
hack 011 the heap .
Many who are not clear whetllf.r the RkPin is like the sample or not , inRtinctively put the 1\gt ; l1U.dHs most resernhling- the test Rample at the side of the ; :~x8 Report of the Co1111nittee on Colou1\#183 ; - Vision .
heiip towards it , and thus gr_actually form a littl : hridge .
hut which for correctuess they will nnt voueh for .
~o such hal[ .
measure : : ; must , however , be allowed .
" Deciding whether the Examined are fitted f01\#183 ; thei1\#183 ; Duty .
" The method of scrutiny here de~cribed is able to detect , M we have seen , not 01~ly complete or mcor1 ; plete colour-l\gt ; lindness , but a feeble chromatic sen~e .
Moreover , 1t has be~n P:\#183 ; overl that there is a perfect gradat10n , from c ?
mplete C ?
lour-blmdne88 on the one side to the normal chromatic percept10n on the other The question then naturally arises , from our practical poiut of view whether it is possible to draw a dividing line between the kind~ and degrees of defe\lt ; ..:ti ve col~ur- visio1 ; which would excl\#183 ; pt those who could not cause any mconvemence to the raihrHy i.ervice , and , in case of an afiirmati ve answer , where such limit [ s to be found .
" It must first be remembered that , in the existing , state of things , these questions neither can nor ought to be settled in 1 he same manner in every case , since the examination i , ; intended for individuals of two different classes-1st , the aspirants for rail way employment ; and , 2nd , the employes , or those already in service .
" It will be readily understood how great is the difference oi the cases , in deciding what may be the result of the examinatiou .
vVe have already giveu our views on this poi11t .
Justice here ealls for an e- .
; sential distinction , supposing- that the test has been always made with sutiicieut accuracy .
Hence we rnu ; ;t pay e , ; pecial atteution to both of the above classes when \lt ; leci1liug whether an employe is fitted for his duty .
" ( A ) Those who ai\#183 ; e Applicants for Railroad Sen\#183 ; ice .
" We must bear in mintl that in Sweden , according\#183 ; to the regulation in force there for the management of state raillrnys ( followed al : : ; o , as far as we know , on the private lines ) , it is required that , in order to be admitted , each applicant must \#183 ; pnwe by a certifieate from a physician that he is exempt from any kind of infirmity , disease , or defect of conformation that could lie prejudieial to the exercise of his fuuctions ; ' and also , rhat among these defects of conformation , in connection with 1 , iguals , are reckoned the defects of the chromatic sense to which the 111anagers have especially directed the attention ~f the me1lii\#183 ; al men attached to the Jines .
\#183 ; ' According tu the principles bid down , the greatest severity should be observed ; or , in other words , the least defect in the sense of colours should be a \amp ; uflicient ground for rejection . .
" We must seek , therefore , to adapt the method of testing- to ~htci law .
The object of a test is to prevent any oue from workmg as a railroad employe who does not have a perfectly nornial colour-_[Jereeption .
\Ve have already sufficiently explained the evils arising from contrary action in case of admist:1ion to Report of the Committee on Colow\#183 ; - Vision .
389 railroad work .
The border between nrJrmal and abnormal colour-sense , like that between the 110rmal and abnormal in all analogous fields , is purely conventional , and can never be sharply defined .
In this caRe , however , i~ is n~cessari ' , and our experience , ; hows , that , so long as the questwn of unprovmg colourblindness is an open one , we must consider as over the border the slig\#183 ; htest chromatic defect that our method can detect , or the sJio\#183 ; htest degree of incomplete colour-blindness ; that is , feeble cokmr-verception .
Com , idering the swallness of the defect the rule seems hard ; and yet we think that it is llOt too severe .
Ou the contrary , it is quite possible that hereafter still stricter rules may become neces : : ; ary .
" Our practical work is greatly silllplified by drawing this boundary-line .
\Ve hold as fixed that the surgeon is not to l\gt ; e asked to decide whether a man is fit for the service or not , but simply to state the kind a11d degree of the coiour-blindness of the employe referred to him .
The decision of an intelligent verson is then immediate and decisive , whether he giYes the examined a certificate , including the state of colour-vision , or refuses the laLter .
The : : ; tatement of the slightest colourblindness in the first case , as also the refusal to give a certificat e in the latter , are both eq nal to refusal . . .
( 13 ) Employes ,1li\#183 ; eacly in Service .
'\Ve must here ask ounielves if we must not modify the limit we have just traced , in order to carry out the principle we Htated before ; namely .
that it is necessary to adopt less severe rules as to the elimination from the service of those who are already employed .
We here encounter great difficulties ; and it will be seen that it is uot po:- ; , ,ible to settle the question 1mmmarily ; that is , that a sharply defined limit cannot be traced .
In _such cases the physi\lt ; :ian sliould always , when he discovers a '.letect in the chromatic sense , give a certificate which will indicate its nature .
These indications include , as we have already said , ~he diag\#183 ; noses cvmplete red-blindness , complete green-blindness , 111co111plete colom\#183 ; -blindness , or a feeble chromatic sense .
\#183 ; " Our method adheres strictly to the theory ; but , on account of the transition-forms , the diagnosis cannot always meet the very exact demands of the theory .
If we class with complete colour-blindness only those cases in which one of the three elements of the visual apparatus is wholly wauting or comP , letely paralyzed , and with incomplete colour-bliuduess only t~iose cases iu which uone of the three are wholly wanting , but snuply the susceptibility of one is very much reduced , we shall have to group many cases of the latter class with the first .
On t.lu~ other hand , we shall often have to consider the lower grades uf meo111plete colour-blindne : , ; s with feeble chromatic sense .
We rnui , t , h\lt ; \gt ; wever , recall ua ; ;es of a per , ; on-e8pecially if be have subi , ; e,1ueutly practiseJ him ; ;eli-being at the fil'st examination iua.rked a ; , completely colour-bliud , whibl on a second time they 390 Report of the Committee on Colour-Vision .
have appeared as only incompletely colour-blind ; and othe " \#183 ; here a person was at one tir:ie incompletely colour-bliud int~ fullest sense of the word , whilst at another only feeble colour .
sense could be shown .
In such cases the record should stat iu addition , in~omplete colour-blin ?
ness , ' appro_aching\#183 ; comple~ ; red or green , or mcomplete colour- blmdness of slight degree , \amp ; c " The same strict rule should be applied to those alrearly em : ployed a'l to those seeking service , a~d all sh ?
uld be discharged who show any lack of colour-percept10n .
This would certainly most fully protect the railroad se1\#183 ; vice from danger .
Such 'a general law , however , has its difficulties , especially as we mu~t recognise , in rGspect to the danger of confounding the signals .
8 great difference between complete colour-blindne:-.s and a fePble colour-perception .
The different cases of incomplete colourblindne ; : ; s vary also ; n \lt ; legree .
To draw a line here , and Hay beforehand who shall be di , - , rnis'led and who retaine1 , will he as easy in regard to the first as difficult in reference to the latter\#183 ; ; for we are convinced that every case of complete colour-hlindness of both kinds , as well as every case of incomplete of thi , higlwr degrees , sh011ld be immediately dismissed .
But , as regards those who may be retained , it is clear that tho first question concerns those who , at the time of the trial , were regarded in the diagnosis only as ha , \#183 ; ing- a feeble chromatic sense , and then those who in the first test mArely confound gre_r with the sample-colour .
But we do not wn1 ure to lay this 00\111 as a principle ; for , if it should be prover ] 1 hat the~e individual~ can generally distinguic , h the light of coloured lanterns wit 1 sufiicient accuracy , this does not prove that it is so iu erP1 } case .
and especially not at every distance such as are required i11 the service .
This is why we know nothing better to adYise tlrnn to refer all such cases to competent specialists , as l011g as the transition period of which we have spoken lasts .
'\#183 ; It may be asked .
How will the specialists them~elve~ proceed ?
To answer this , however , would require a much more extended scientific discuQsion of the various methodH than we l1ave proposed here to make .
We would only give some hi11t8 .
A specialist who is familiar with tliis subject haA all k11ow11 methods at his disposition ; and , if these fail , he need but i11_vc:nt ?
thers .
As .
however .
] have been in the position of the ilp\lt ; \#183 ; cud1~t m reference to the reform on the railroads of Sweden , l will here say how I have proceeded .
" In the examination of doubtful cases submit \lt ; l to my judgment , I determim\#183 ; ll according to several of the methods mentioned in one of the 11recediug chapters .
In general , tht\gt ; se personi , ; were all : , uhjecterl to a trial according to the method~ of Seebeck and Maxwell .
a1Jd an examination by meam ; vl the visual perimeter and of coloured shadows , as well a~ the lanterns of my invention and coloured glasses .
These last melJ : 11 .
have C"1pacity eSJ-lP\lt ; \#183 ; ially in Yiew : and they are very suitalilt- l\lt ; ~r the object , " \#183 ; lieu it is desired to investigate those who ha , Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colom\#183 ; - Vision .
391 been already discovered , by my method of Berlin worsteds , as having a defective chromatic sense .
, , The light of coloured lanterns and illuminated surfaces generally , conveniently arranged and methodically used , may serve especially in such cases to enlighten us as to the faculty of the person examined for appreciating coloured signals .
Our experiences of this kind have shown us that the majority of colour-blind railway employs , however much practice they have had , are utterly incapable of recognising and distinguishing head regulation colours of lanterns , especially when they are employte in the shades which are not most commonly in use in the service .
'l'hi ; ; ; applies not only to the completely red- and green-blind , but also to the incompletely blind .
These last require the most circumstantial investigation , and it is not to be assumed that the lower degrees can stand the trial .
They may often , it is true , distinguish the signal-lights at a short distance with sufficient accuracy ; but they do not succeed at a comparatively greater distance .
As the places where the trials are usually made do not command snch distances as railways for observing signals , signal-lights cannot of course be used for these trials .
They are replaced by small illuminated surfaces , which , seen from a suitable distance , produce exactly the same effect as lanterns at a great distance .
Such surfaces are made by placing a screen , with a suitable opening covered with a coloured glass , before the flame of a lamp .
" " \Ye have , however , said enough in reference to means to be employed in Ruch cases .
\Ve had no wish to enter into further details , and doubt whether this would on the whole be adYisable .
" VOL. LI .
2D 392 Repo1\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
APPENDIX IV .
DR. JEA : FFRESON 's TEST Disc .
Dr. Jeaffreson 's t~st ~pparatus consist~ of a 1:otating celluloid disc , about a foot m diameter , upon which skems of wool~ are arranged radially at the outer edge ( see Fig. I ) .
All of thr FIG. I. Jisc except a small aperture , as shown in Fig II , is conned .
By means of a button attached to its centre , the di1 , c t\#183 ; n11 be turned until any colour is brought .
opposite to that standard t ?
, r colour which is seen in the upper aperture .
The test skem~ are the three Ilolmgren test colours , and a yellow , blue , and purple .
The apparatus is mounted in a frame , so that it can be hung upon the wall .
In using the test the usual course is to point out to the per~on under examination the pale green wool in the upper aperture , ttutl Rep01't of the Committee on Col011r- Vision .
393 Fm .
IL l'P\lt ; 1u0Rt him to tum tho button until he brings several skeins of what appear to hirn to be the same colour on the disc opposite to the one be has to match .
when tho examination with this colour is completed , the pink skein is proueeded with in the same maimer , and this is followed by the other test colours , if com , idered necessary , following it , if desired , with from one to twenty confusion colours .
The colours on the disc which are chosen can he registered uy numbers for future reference , or for comparison with tho results of a second examination , where , in case of disputes , it is called for .
APPENDIX V. TEST WlTII TUE SPECTROSCOPE .
The test with the spectroscope requires an apparatus somewhat complicated in construction , and therefore expensive , but it should he applied wbcu an appeal from the verdict of tho examiner is made .
2D2 394 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
In any examination it is essential that both the ex~minor and the examinee should see the test colours at the same time , or at least that the former shoul~ by some .
m~ans .
k~ow e_xactly what is being shown .
For a simultaneous view it IS ad_v1sable that the spectrum sho_uld 1:\gt ; e formed _by a source of hght at lea~t as bright as the hme-hght , when It has to be thrown upon some white reflecting surface .
If the apparatus be so made that a patch of monochromatic light from any part of the spectrum ran be thrown upon some one spot of the white receiving Rnrface the examination will become easy , more particularly if a patch uf white light can also be thrown separately or together with the monochromatic light on the same spot , as this enables any dilution of the pure spectrum coloqr to be effected , and gives a means uf detecting imposition .
As already pointed out , every decidedly coluur-blind person sees some one part of the spectrum as-what he calls-white .
If the spectrum colours alone were thrown on the screen , it is quite possible that the examinee might he taught that when a colour which formed the patch appeai\#183 ; ed white to him he ought to call it green or bluish-green , and thus detection of the imposture would be difficult .
But if tho mode of testing be arranged as follows , the difficnltv would be overcome :- .
A patch of any coloured light should be thrown on the screen , and the candidate asked to indicate if it was white .
The colotir might then be diluted with white , and the question again asked .
A pure white patch might then be put on the screen and the question repeated .
The colours should be gradually changed nntil his neutral point was approached .
At this place the colour Henn a~ white would be mistaken for white , as the changes would h11 made by dilution or by omitting the colour altogether .
Thi~ test involves no naming of a colour , but only a knowledge nf white .
The discovery of a neutral point would infallibly indicate that the candidate was colour-blind .
Another simple test is to mix three spectrum colours to form white , one of the rays being situated near the neutral point of the red-green blind .
The w bite would be the same to the colour-blind as to the normal eye , and it would still remain white to the colour-blind whether the colour at the neutral point were increased or diminished .
No amount of coaching woulLI enable the examinee to make constantly correct answers .
By placing a bull's-eye of a lantern in this patch , and by arranging that the three colours , the blue-green of the neutral point , a green closer to the red , and a red , and also the white should all have about the same luminosity , a further te , ~t in imitation of signal lights could be carried out .
The question as to the character of the colour-blindnesR need not be investigated ; but if a patch of light from the extreme red of the spectrum were thrown on the screen , and diluted slightly with white light , the green-blind would see it coloured red or yellow , whilst the red-blind would see only tho white .
Rep01\#183 ; t of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
395 .An instrument based on the principle of Clerk-Maxwell 's colour-box could also be used in much the same way as indicated above , but in this case the examiner would uot see the patch of light , and could only examine the case nfter the positions of the different colours had been accurately determined beforehand .
APPENDIX VI .
FORM TEST .
.AJI tests of form-vision depend upon the principle that the magnitude of the image formed upon the retina , by any object , depends partly upon the magnitude of the object itself , and partly upon its distance from the observer ; or , in other words , upon the maguitude of the visual angle which it subteuds , while the retinal image must itself attain a certain magnitude before the ol\gt ; ject from which it is derived can be clearly seen .
The precise character of the test object is not important , and perhaps the l\gt ; est is furnished by groups of equal circular dots , each one separated from its neighbours by an interval equal to its own diameter .
For all practical purposes , however , printed letters are sufficient , and it is found by experience that capital letters , in block type , are easily distinguished by the majority of mankind when they are placed at such a distance that each limb or part of a letter is seen under a visual angle of one minute , and each letter as a whole under a visual angle of five minutes .
Sets of " test-types " were first made on this principle by Dr. Snellen , of Utrecht , and are commonly called by his name .
They consi8t of lines of letten , of different sizes , each size marked by a number , which corres\#181 ; onds with the number of feet or metres of distance at which it will subtend the visual angles mentioned above , and a !
which it should therefore l\gt ; e clearly legible .
The acuteness of v~sion is expressed by a fraction , of which the numerator is the distance of the observer from the tests , while the denommator is the mnnl\gt ; er of the smallest letters which he can read at that diRtance .
Tl.ms if at 20 metres he can read No. 20 , he is said to have ~\#163 ; , or normal vision ; but if at 20 feet he can only read ~o .
40 , or if , in order to read No. 20 , he finds it necessary to ap\#181 ; roach within 10 feet , he would , in the former case , be said to h~".c -Ht , and in the latter ~\#163 ; - , of normal vision , iu either his , \#183 ; rnion being equal to -~ .
The test is rapidly ap_\#181 ; lied in practice by h_anging up a sheet of properly constructed letters in good d:tyhght , by placing the person to be tested at a measured distmwe from them , and by de8iring him to rearl the 8mallest he can._ The letters may be procured from any optician , and , in test111g _ large numbern of people , it is desirable to have some mediamca_l coutrivance for concealing part of each line , so that the ' ; lxammer may not be deceived by the lines having been \#181 ; 1\#183 ; ( :v10u , ily learnt by heart by the examinees .
396 Report of the Committee on Colour- Vision .
APPENDIX VII .
SuMMARY Ol !
' COLOUR-BLIND O~sEs det~cted at the examination of about 300 Railway Employs at Swrndon on 22nd June , 1891 .
Explanation.-The names at the _he3:d ~f the columns are th ?
se of the Examiners .
G = Green , R = Red , mdwatmg the colour-perception which was deficient or entirely absent .
The mark - shows that the Examinee was passed by the Examiners , , " - WOOL TEST .
LANTERN TEST .
Examinee 's ( b. ) Capt. Number .
( a. ) ' Mr.llfellish .
Abney .
( c. ) I ( d- } I ( e. ) 1~1-- 0~ Capt. Dr. Edridge Mr. Galton .
Mr ... ~Ir .
B. Thompson .
Green .
Nettlesh1p .
, Carter .
\#183 ; -\#183 ; lJ8 I ?
G 122 G GR * 1~9 ?
G 641 - t 642 ?
G Payne RG RG RG Hext R RG RG RG - Total I I 8 Number 138 88 101 8 66 78 I Examined I ( a ) This column includes those examined by J\Ir .
Brudenell Carter and Dr. Frost , who ~~~~~- m ( b ) The cases given in this column were detected by Dr .
.Jeaffreson 's wool test apparat \#183 ; ( c ) Capt. Thompson used the Board of Trade tests-lamp and glasses .
IO ( d ) Dr. Edridge Green 's lamp did not arrive at Swindon early enough to enable hlDl examine more than eight men . .
al .
( e ) Mr. Gaitan used a very convenient lamp of his own design .
After the proceedIDf !
s. " Swmdon , Mr. Gal ton wrote , " The wool test is surer than the lantern test and moreconve/ !a181'11 ( f ) 111r .
Nettleship in transmitting t , he result .
of his examination states that tM baff test as he used it " is evidently quite untrustworthy as a first test , though it may pei bapeiDed . .
Talue as a ~est of practical efficiency when the real colour state has already been det~":'aaiel'II ( g ) Tius column gives a few cases tested by lllr .
Carter with bis own patrelll after he had finished with the wool test .
* Called Yellow , red .
.Rejected .
t Called Green , blue ; and White , red .
Rejected .

