Experiments on the Resilition of Bodies in Common Air , in Vacuo and in Air Condensed , made at a meeting of the Royal Society at Gresham College .
By Mr Francis Hauksbee .
HAving provided a tall Glass Recipient , in whose upper part I had a contrivance to lodge 4 Marbles , and from thence successively could drop them on a Plane at pleasure ; by which means , opportunity was given to make the more deliberate observations .
But before I proceed to relate the Experiments themselves , I think it will be necessary first to take notice , that the distance of the descent of each Marble on the plane was about 131/ 2 inches .
The weight of two Marbles 59 Grains , the other two 63 Grains ; being all of the sort generally sold at Toy-shops .
The Plane whereon they dropped was a round flat piece of solid Glass , about an inch thick , and 3 1/ 2 over ; whose up-per surface was well Ground and Polished .
It was fixed in a Tin frame , contrived on purpose to keep its lower surface from being contiguous to the Plate or Leather , on which the Recipient was placed ; ( which I mention purposely , lest any Gentlemen , who may have the curiosity to repeat these Experiments , should fall into an error I very narrowly escaped ) for when first I made these Experiments I used a Stone Plane laid carelessly on the Leather that covered the Plate , over which the Recipient being placed , and the Air exhausted , the descending Marbles would not rebound so high by an inch , as when the Experiment came to be made on the same Plane in common Air ; which unexpected Phenomenon gave great umbrage that it might proceed from some unheeded cause , and several reasons were alleged against the candour of the Experiment ; the principal of which was , that the swelling of the Leather in vacuo raised the incumbent Plane , causing it to lye more hollow and soft than it did in the open Air .
In order therefore to set the Experiments in a true light , I procured the prementioned Glass Plane , on which , when I came ( as before ) to drop the Marbles , their Resilition then was something more in Vacuo than in common Air ( which put it past all doubt , that the Error proceeded from the cause suggested .
) Those dropped in common Air had likewise some small advantage in their rebound , above those let fall in Air condensed .
The Condensation being but one Asmosphere , not daring to venture more , the breaking of the Recipient being very hazardous .
The Resilition of the Marbles from the Plane in Vacuo was about 10 1/ 2 inches , which was something more than 3/ 4 of their descent .
In Condensed Air their rebound was about 10 inches .
Accordingly we must account their Resilition in Common Air to be the medium of the other two , it being difficult to judge to a nicety in so sudden a motion ; but there was a sensible difference betwixt the rebound of those dropped in Vacuo , and those in Air condensed .
I could not observe that the small difference in the weight of the Marbles made any discernable alteration in their Resilitions .

