1895 .
] The Formation and Structure of Dental Enamel .
181 paper , that quaternion methods may be regarded practically as a particular case of octonion methods .
When the motion of the rigid body is always in tbc neighbourhood of an absolutely stable position we get the theory of " Screws .
" The more general theorems in connection with this are given in a somewhat different form from Sir Robert Ball 's .
Thus , for instance , we have a " generalised force motor , " which in a particular case becomes the " reduced wrench .
" It is pointed out that the latter is not always intelligible .
Some form of the former is always intelligible , as also is a particular form of it called the " virtual force motor .
" The corresponding " virtual impulse motor " is the impulse motor due to the external impulses and the reactions of the constraints , but a similar statement does not hold for the virtual force motor IV .
" On the Formation and Structure of Dental Enamel .
" By J. Leon Williams , D.D.S. , L.D.S. Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The special points in the formation and structure of enamel which 1 have attempted to elucidate in this paper may be summarised as follows\#151 ; 1st .
The existence of a very thin membrane , or a structure of membrane-like appearance , lying between the ameloblasts and the forming enamel , and also between these cells and those of the stratum intermedium .
I have also , in many specimens , seen a similar membrane covering the odontoblasts .
2nd .
The formation of enamel by deposit and not by cell calcification .
This deposit probably consists of two distinct cell products\#151 ; a granular plasm and spherules of calcoglobulin .
3rd .
The relation of the cells of the stratum intermedium to true secreting tissue ; this relation being especially marked in the enamel organs of the rat and mouse .
4th .
An intricate vascular network in the stratum intermedium .
I should also mention that I have seen a free distribution of blood vessels in the odontoblastic layer of cells in the mouse , rat , and calf , as well as in human embryos , thus conclusively proving that these cells are not calcified .
5th .
The fibrous character of enamel in many of the lower animals , and the change of these fibres into more or less regularly arranged granules in the monkey and in man .
6th .
That the varicosities of the enamel rods are not caused by acids ( although often rendered more clear to view by acid treatment ) 182 The Healing of Incisions in Vegetable Tissues .
[ Dec. 12 , but represent a true structural peculiarity of this tissue .
That these varicosities , which often continue in an uninterrupted lice across large fields of view , correspond with the course of set of fibres .
The varicosities may , therefore , be caused by the presence of this set of cross fibres .
The only alternative explanation which has occurred to me is that there may be a rhythmic , simultaneous action of all the ameloblasts concerned in the deposit of the material for enamel building .
The last theory seems to be less reasonable than the first.* 7th .
The Retzius bands are often as distinctly marked in forming as in mature teeth , and in teeth which have been kept constantly moist as they are in dried specimens .
The enamel rods are often seen to pass without break a , cross several of these bands .
The bands are principally due to a deposit of pigment , and not to imprisoned air or gas as claimed by von Ebner .
V. " The Healing of Incisions in Vegetable Tissues .
" By Samuel G. Shattock .
Communicated by Sir James Paget , Bart. , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The five methods of wound repair in man and the higher animals :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Immediate union .
( 2 ) Primary adhesion .
( 3 ) Granulation .
( 4 ) Secondary adhesion .
( 5 ) Beneath a scab .
The third and fifth concern the healing of open wounds , and are referred to only incidentally .
Immediate Union , i.e. , union of the cells actually divided.\#151 ; Never observed .
Experiments made on the planule of Faba vulgaris .
Primary Adhesion.\#151 ; All growing parenchyma readily heals after incision .
Mode of experiment .
( a ) Healing by primary adhesion without separation of surfaces .
( 1 ) Without sclerosis of the , scar-tissue .
In the shoots of Aucuba .
Stages : Cell division on either side of the incision ; absence of suberisation ; interruption of the line of the adpressed remains of the opened cells by the interpolation of new .
The absence of cork formation not due to inability to form it .
( 2 ) With sclerosis of the scar-tissue .
In kohl-rabi .
The line of scar-tissue broken by the growth of indifferent parenchyma .
* Since the above was written , I have demonstrated that there is a simultaneous deposit of the spherical bodies over the entire surface of forming enamel.\#151 ; J. L. W.

