A paper was read , " On the Anatomy and Physiology of the Mi ?
nute and Capillary Vessels .
" By Marshall Hall , M.D. The author , considering the minute blood-vessels as arteries or veins , as long as their subdivisions or junctions are attended with a change in their dimensions , denominates them capillaries when no such change occurs .
With the aid of an achromatic microscope of Dollond 's , he endeavoured to ascertain what differences existed between the systemic and pulmonary circulations , as far as regards these vessels .
Dr. Edwards had observed that the batrachian reptiles are speedily killed by immersion in hot water : and the author found that although by plunging any of the animals of that order into water at 120 ?
of Fahrenheit they are speedily deprived of all power of sensation and of motion , yet the action of the heart con ?
tinues for a very long time , thus affording an opportunity of leisurely observing the phenomena of the circulation , without the infliction of pain , and without any disturbance from the struggles of the animal .
In the fins and tail of the stickleback , the number of the capillary vessels is small , and their distribution simple : the artery runs along the border of each ray till it reaches the extremity , when it is re ?
flected , and becoming a vein , pursues a retrograde course by the side of the artery .
This simplicity in the mode of its distribution corresponds with the simple nature of the function of the part , which is merely an instrument for swimming .
In the web of the frog 's foot , which is adapted to a greater variety of mechanical purposes , the system of blood-vessels is somewhat more complex ; the capillaries are more abundant ; the arteries , which are nearly equal in number to the veins , pursue a more direct course ; and the veins are larger and more tortuous .
No pulsatory movement can be perceived in the blood while moving in the capillaries or veins , as long as the circulation is unimpeded and in the natural state .
The author was unable to detect any anastomoses between the minute arteries , although they are frequent among the veins , where they give rise to occasional oscillations in the currents of blood flowing through them : neither could he discover any instance , in the web of the frog , of the immediate termination of an artery in a vein .
The velocity of the blood is retarded immediately in its passage from the arteries into the capillaries , because the united capacity of the branches is greater than that of the trunk which divides to form them .
In the mesentery of the toad , the distribu ?
tion of the vessels is simple , like that of the fins and tail of a fish .
But in the pulmonary organs , where the purpose to be answered is that of diffusing the blood over the greatest possible extent of surface , the arteries and the veins correspond to each other in all their ramifications , and their adjacent branches generally pursue courses parallel to each other .
Their transition into capillaries is effected with fewer subdivisions than in the case of other arteries .
No disposition exists among these arteries to form anastomoses with each other , or with the veins ; but the intervening spaces are uniformly occupied by a close network of capillary vessels .
The lung of the salamander is simply vesicular ; that of the frog is cellular , as well as vesicular , and consequently presents greater difficulty in following with the microscope the course of the vessels as they traverse membranes situated in different planes .
In the lungs of the frog , the larger vessels pass chiefly on the external surface ; but in the toad they follow the course of the internal margins of the vertical meshes .
The author concludes from his observations , that the ca ?
pillaries , properly so called , have no power to contribute to the motion of the blood , and that the capillary circulation depends altogether upon the action of the heart and arteries .
In cases of im ?
peded circulation , he observes , the pulsatory movement of the blood may be seen , not only in the arteries , but also in the capillary ves ?
sels , and even in the veins .
At nine o'clock , pursuant to the Notice sent to the Fellows according to the Statutes , a ballot was taken for filling three vacancies in the Council occasioned by the resignation of Viscount Melville , K.T. , Sir George Murray , G.C.B. , and Sir Robert Peel , Bart. Dr. Goodenough and Sir Robert Inglis were appointed scrutators .
After examining the Balloting Lists , they reported that John Frederick Daniell , George Dollond , and Charles Konig , Esqrs .
, were elected Members of the Council .
A Letter from Sir James South to the Treasurer was read , stating , that the Dome of the Building intended for his large Equatorial was nearly completed , and that he would be happy to show it to the Mem ?
bers of the Society any day of the week , between the hours of one and five .
Printed by Richard Taylor , Red Lion Court , Fleet Street .

