VIII .
An Account of the quantity of Resin in the Cortex Eleutheriae .
By Mr. John Brown , Chymist , F. R. S. DR. Douglas having lately delivered in a Paper to be read before this Society , giving an account ( from the History of the Royal Academy at Paris ) of the Cortex Eleutheriae ; and among other things having said of it , that Monsieur Boulduc had from one Ounce of the Bark , by means of Spirit of Wine , gotten 5 Drachms of Resinous Extract , there remaining 3 Drachms of Faeces ; and that Gentleman 's account of some of the Properties of this Bark being founded on the quantity of Resin supposed to be contained in it : I proposed to Dr. Douglas and some other Gentlemen of the Society , ( who agreed with me in believing , that scarcely any part of any Plant whatsoever would yield that quantity of Resinous Extract ) to try the Experiment , which was performed after the following manner .
I took two Ounces of picked Bark , and digested it in rectified Spirit of Wine , which was often decanted and fresh Spirit put on , until the Bark would yield no more Tincture .
The impregnated Spirit being evaporated by a very gentle heat ; there was left two Drachms of Resinous Extract ; the remains of the Bark dried , weighed one Ounce , two Drachms and a half ; the loss this way is three Drachms and an half .
I boiled these remains in several Waters , until they would no longer tinge the Water , which being evaporated yielded one Drachm and an half of extract ; the remains of this dried weighed one Ounce and half a Drachm ; the loss by this Method is half a Drachm .
I took two Ounces more of picked Bark , and boiled it in several Waters , 'till the Bark gave no more Colour ; and then upon an Evaporation of the Water , had two Drachms of Extract .
The remains being dried weighed one Ounce six Drachms ; here the loss was not any thing , except so much as might answer in weight to the quantity of the Menstruum left in the Extract , which Allowance must likewise be made in the other Extracts .
I digested the remains in rectified Spirits of Wine , until they no longer ting 'd the Spirit , and by a very gentle Evaporation , I found remaining one Drachm of Resinous extract .
What was left , when dried , weighed one Ounce , two Drachms , and an half ; in this the loss was two Drachms and an half .
The Difference in the quantity of Extract obtained by these two different Methods , is but half a Drachm , and the Medium between them , upon putting together the several Extracts made with Spirit of Wine and Water , is in the whole but three Drachms and a quarter .
But the Extract made with Spirit of Wine alone , is no more than two Drachms from two Ounces of the Cortex , instead of ten Drachms , which it ought to have yielded according to Monsieur Boulduc .

