478 On Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
Ninth Note.\#151 ; Successive Spinal Induction .
By C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. ( Received January 31 , \#151 ; Read February 15 , 1906 .
) ( Physiology Laboratory , University of Liverpool .
) It was previously* pointed out that in various reflex reactions inhibition is succeeded by marked exaltation of activity in the arcs inhibited .
This aftereffect may be figured as a sort of rebound from inhibition .
An example is the following .
When a dog in which the spinal cord has been transected in the thoracic region is , the period of shock having passed , supported so that its spine is vertical and its hind limbs hang freely , these latter begin to perform a rhythmic stepping movement .
This is the reflex , termed by Goltz the mark-time reflex .
The tempo of this stepping differs , in my experience , in different dogs and at different times in the same dog .
It may be as frequent at 22 steps of each leg per 10 seconds or as slow as seven steps in that period .
It will persist in some animals for 20 minutes at a time .
After some minutes ' duration its amplitude usually becomes less and the movement on the whole less regular .
For the first minutes of duration it is however regular and shows little variation .
The stimulus which excites this reflex has not been traced with exactitude .
It persists after severance of the sciatic trunk not including the hamstring nerve .
Freusbergf inclined to attribute it to afferents belonging to the " muscular sense , " and especially to those connected with parts put under strain in the passive attitude given to the limb under its own weight .
It is closely similar to the stepping reflex studied by PhilippsonJ in the dog supported with spine horizontal .
That it is initiated by the stretch of some tissue above the knee and especially on the flexor aspect of the hip may be argued from its immediate cessation when the dependent limb is supported from drooping by lifting the lower end of the thigh slightly from underneath by a prop placed just above the knee .
Such support , in my experience , usually causes cessation of the reflex in the unsupported ( fig. 1 ) as well as in the supported limb and it does not matter which of the two limbs is supported .
The main stimulus , therefore , seems bilateral in origin , and to lie above the * 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 76 , p. 160 .
t 4 Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 8 .
X Heger 's 4 Travaux de Laboratoire , ' Bruxelles .
On Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
knee on the flexor aspect of the hip .
The attachment of small weights to the foot has not , in my experience , increased the reflex .
In the stepping reflex obtained when the animal is supported vertically ( the " mark-time " reflex ) the movement is more pronounced at hip than at knee and ankle .
A very similar stepping reflex occurs also when the animal is nearly supine .
In this latter the movement is more marked at ankle and knee than at hip .
In this posture of the animal passive dorsi-flexion of one ankle often excites dorsi-flexion of the opposite ankle , followed by extension at that knee and then by plantar-flexion at that ankle .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; " Mark-time " reflex of spinal dog .
The up strokes correspond with flexions of the limb , the down strokes with extensions .
For the period between the two marks on the signal line the reflex was interrupted by taking the limb 's weight oflf the fellow limb to that yielding the record , namely by supporting it under the knee .
On return of the reflex , when the limb was again allowed to hang under its own weight , the reflex shows no increase beyond its previous activity .
The small undulations during the period of rest are due to slight swaying of the animal ; the reflex ceased completely .
Time is registered above in seconds .
There is also a stepping reflex elicitable from the spinal dog when lying on its side and without any marked mechanical strain either of flexion or extension ; this is obtained by faradisation of the skin of the opposite hind foot.* * Sherrington , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 33 .
480 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Jan. 31 , Here the tempo of the stepping is also about 20 steps per 10 seconds , but the stepping is strictly unilateral .
These points argue that several sources of excitation probably co-operate in the production of the stepping reflex .
An important item in the execution of the movement of the reflex in all its forms is flexion at the hip and knee .
Suppose the " mark-time " reflex is in regular progress and is being recorded from one knee , e.g. , right by a thread passing thence to a pulley and light lever , if then the other thigh ( left ) be gently supported from behind the knee the record shows that the stepping reflex usually at once ceases in the right limb ( fig. 1 .
The reflex ceases entirely : the small undulations on the trace in the interval during the cessation are due to swaying of the body , partly respiratory , in the suspended attitude ) .
The limb during the cessation of the reflex hangs somewhat extended .
On removing the slight support from under the left knee the " mark-time " reflex at once recommences , with flexion in the right knee .
The reflex , on recommencing after this pause , continues as it ceased , that is , its tempo and amplitude are practically the same as before the interruption ( fig. 1 ) .
This result contrasts with the following .
Goltz and Freusberg* showed that the " mark-time " reflex can be cut short by a strong squeeze of the tail .
In my experience this stimulus is best applied near the root of the tail .
A light touch on the hair of the tail often increases the stepping reflex , and the stronger the mechanical stimulus to the tail the quicker and more powerful as a rule is the inhibition of the stepping .
But the stimulus to the tail need not be very strong in order to cause inhibition .
I judge that the intensity of the mechanical stimulus which , applied to the tail , inhibits the reflex stepping is such that , were the condition of the animal not spinal , would constitute a dolorous ( pathic ) stimulus .
The tail stimulus which inhibits may , therefore , be considered adequate for a nociceptive reaction.f The application of this stimulus to the tail does not in any way interfere mechanically with the stepping movement .
Suppose the " mark-time " reflex to be in regular progress and recorded as before , if then the tail stimulus be applied the stepping reflex is almost immediately arrested , and in both limbs .
The reflex remains in abeyance while the tail stimulus is continued .
On the cessation of the latter the reflex returns , and on its return soon shows indubitable increase in activity as compared with its activity before the inhibitory arrest ( fig. 2 ) .
The increase is chiefly seen in the amplitude of the movement , but there is also often marked quickening of the tempo of the rhythm .
I have seen the rhythm on some occasions qxiickened by * ' Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 8 .
t 1 Journ. of .
Physiol. , ' vol. 30 , p. 39 , 1903 .
1906 .
} On Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
481 30 per cent. The after-increase of the reflex : may persist in evidence for many seconds .
Its decline is gradual .
top.\#151 ; " Mark-time " reflex as before ; but the reflex is here interrupted by stimulation of the tail .
This arrest due to inhibition , is followed , after cessation of the inhibitory stimulus , by increase in amplitude and i| slightly in frequence of the reflex .
The signal registers period of application of inhibitory stimulus .
Time registered in seconds .
The arrest of the stepping reflex by tail inhibition cannot be prolonged indefinitely .
The reflex tends to return in spite of the inhibitory stimulation when the latter is long persisted in .
It is different when the stepping reflex is arrested by lifting one knee ; the reflex does not then tend to break through the arrest , however long the latter be continued .
In this form of arrest of the reflex the arrest seems referable simply to cessation of the stimulus which excites the reflex .
In the case of arrest by tail inhibition the arrest seems referable to a central inhibition , the peripheral stimulus , E , 482 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Jan. 31 , excitatory of the reflex remaining in action all the time , though unable to produce the reflex owing to the intervening inhibition .
The after-increase which ensues , in the second form of arrest , but not in the first , might be explicable in either of two ways .
It might be due to the continuance of the exciting stimulus , E , during the period of arrest .
That stimulus might , though unable to evoke discharge of the motor neurone during the inhibition , yet be charging a relay apparatus in the reflex arc , and so lead to increased discharge after the inhibition was past .
Or the after-increase might proceed as a direct result from the inhibition itself , the depressed activity of inhibition being followed by a rebound to superactivity , and altogether apart from the continuance of any excitatory stimulus during the inhibitory period .
To decide between these possibilities the effect of strongly stimulating the tail when at the same time both hind limbs were supported from below was tried .
The stimulus for the stepping reflex was thus held in abeyance at the time of and during the whole period of the intercurrent inhibition .
The result was found to be an after-increase of the stepping reflex not less marked than in the previous cases .
It is not at first obvious what relation a stimulus to the tail bears to the reflex of the limb .
But it is often noticeable that in the " mark-time " reflex the tail itself is alternately deflected to right and left , keeping time with the stepping reflex .
When the right limb begins to draw up in flexion , and the left limb to straighten out in extension , the tail begins to move from the right to the left .
The tail does really therefore participate in the locomotor reflex , of which the stepping movement is also a part .
Nocuous stimuli to the side of the tail , e.g. , by unipolar faradisation , evoke reflex abduction of the tail from the side stimulated , and the organ is then usually kept abducted for a time , just as the hind paw is drawn up and kept so for a time when excited by similar stimulation .
Moreover , such stimulation of the tail excites reflex movement not only of the tail but of the hind limb , and the limb 's movement is usually extension at hip and knee .
The result of this is , that the tail stimulus can inhibit a flexion-reflex of the hind limb .
If the flexion-reflex be induced by inserting a hedgehog spine into the planta , and if while that prolonged reflex is in progress and the limb is remaining thoroughly flexed at hip and knee , a caudal skin-point is faradised , the limb at once drops into the extended attitude under gravity .
This occurs when the nerves to the extensors to the hip and knee have been severed .
The tail stimulus therefore inhibits the flexors of knee and hip .
The particular mode in which the tail-stimulus comes to inhibit the stepping reflex seems to be that it inhibits the rhythmic flexion of the hip , 1906 .
] On Innervation of Antagonistic 483 which is so prominent a part of the mark-time reflex .
The after-increase of the latter reflex following on its inhibition by the tail-stimulus seems , as shown above , a pure effect of rebound from inhibition .
On the above view it should show itself therefore chiefly in an after-increase of the flexion of hip movement , and the graphic records of the effect show this to be the case ( fig. 2 ) , the movement of flexion being the upward movement in the tracing .
This inhibition of the " mark-time " reflex exemplifies therefore the principle of the common path* The reflex arc whose reaction is inhibited and the reflex arc which inhibits are both found when separately examined to use the same final common path , but to different effect .
The common path in this case is the flexor neurone of the hip , and one arc uses it in a steady depressor manner and the other in a rhythmic pressor manner .
The conflict in this case , as so often , is between a nociceptive reaction and a purely locomotor reaction ; and the former prevails as is usual.f The after-increase consequent upon inhibition is evidently a form of " bahnungfX In order to distinguish it from those forms of " which ensue without previous inhibition and are therefore immediate , it may be conveniently termed " successive spinal induction " the more so as that term draws attention to the likeness between the spinal process and certain visual phenomena commonly designated " induction .
" Another instance of " successive spinal induction " is the following : In the spinal animal ( cat , dog ) lying supine , the knee-jerk is elicited at regular interval by tapping the patellar tendon .
If , then , the central end of the previously severed hamstring nerve is faradised , the knee-jerks become much less ample or quite inelicitable .
The tonus of the knee-jerk muscle ( vasto-crureus ) is at the same time depressed .
On discontinuing the stimulation of the hamstring nerve , the knee-jerk quickly becomes again elicitable , and soon is more brisk and ample than prior to the intercurrent inhibitionS ( fig. 3 ) .
The tonus also returns and in some cases becomes clearly greater than prior to the inhibition .
This after-increase of the knee-jerk takes place when , during the whole period of inhibition , the leg is by mechanical support prevented from drooping , and thus the passive stretch of the vasto-crureus is avoided during the inhibition .
The after-increase also occurs when the elicitation of the knee-jerk is completely remitted during the whole period of the inhibition .
The after-increase is not therefore due to any continuance * Sherrington , 'Brit .
Assoc. Reports , ' 1904 , Address to Section I. t Ibid. f Exner , ' Pfluger 's Archiv , ' vol. 28 .
S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 76 , p. 161 .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Jan. 31 , of the action of exciting stimuli during the period of inhibition .
It is a " successive spinal induction " following upon inhibition , just as in the instance previously given .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Knee-jerks .
The knee-jerks were elicited by taps of equal intensity delivered at intervals signalled by a metronome .
During the time marked by the signal the afferent nerve of a flexor muscle of the knee was weakly faradised .
This inhibitory stimulus depressed the knee-jerk .
After the inhibitory stimulus was discontinued the jerks increased to beyond their amplitude prior to the inhibition ; this increase is accompanied by a tonic after-action following each jerk .
Time registered above in seconds .
In the " scratch-reflex , " after its inhibition by the crossed extension-reflex , or the homonymous flexion-reflex , a similar after-exaltation is sometimes seen .
Fig. 4 exemplifies such an occurrence .
But the time of interruption of the reflex has usually in my records been too short to allow much scope for the development of successive spinal induction , and the quick tiring of the scratch-reflex under electric excitation is unfavourable to examining it there .
1906 .
] On Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
485 Fig. 4.\#151 ; Scratch-reflex of spinal dog .
The reflex was evoked from the skin of the shoulder by unipolar faradisation applied for a period marked by the signal line A. The reflex soon after its commencement was inhibited by stimulating ( unipolar faradisation ) the skin of the planta of the foot engaged in the scratching-re flex .
The time of the inhibitory stimulus is registered by signal line B. After cessation of the inhibitory stimulus the scratch-reflex\#151 ; its stimulus being continued throughout\#151 ; returned , and on return was more ample than before the inhibition .
Time registered above in fifths of second .
486 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Jan. 31 , It is easy to evoke reflex-extension of the hind limb by stimulation of the skin of the opposite hind limb .
With the spinal dog laid on its side left ) and a thread attaching the knee of the slightly flexed right limb to a recording lever , the delivery of a certain stimulus ( e.g. , 15 break-shock at 30 per second ) by unipolar faradisation through a gilt needle at a skin-point of the left foot , evokes reflex-extension at right hip and knee .
If this stimulus , at moderate and unchanged intensity , be given at regular interval ( e.g. , once per minute ) a series of extension reflexes of regular height and duration are obtained .
If in the course of such a series the right limb is , during one of the 60-second intervals , thrown into strong reflex flexion ( e.g. , by faradisation of the skin of its own foot and the reflex flexion be maintained for some time , e.g. , 40 seconds ) the next extension-reflex following on the intercurrent flexion differs from those prior to it in being more ample and more prolonged ( figs. 5 and 6 ) .
Its after-discharge is greatly increased and its latency is sometimes diminished .
If the test stimulus for the extension-reflex be adjusted at just subliminal value , the intercurrent flexion-reflex will make it supraliminal .
The exaltation of the extension-reflex may remain perceptible for five minutes ; in the example furnished in fig. 5 it is quite recognisable for four minutes .
The mode of production of this exaltation seems the same as that traced above in the knee-extensor , with the knee-jerk as test-sign , and in the stepping reflex after interruption by tail inhibition .
It has been shown that central inhibition of the extensor of the knee is part and parcel of the homonymous flexion-reflex of the leg .
In the present case , therefore , during the intercurrent flexion-reflex , the reflex arc of extension was under inhibitory depression .
After discontinuance of that inhibition the extensor reflex is found exalted to a degree of activity beyond that which it showed prior to the inhibition .
A similar successive spinal induction is evident in the following .
The spinal animal ( cat ) being supine , the nerves of one hind limb are severed save for the nerve to vasto-crureus .
The limb is supported with femur .
vertical and anticrus therefore fairly flexed at knee .
The central end of the hamstring nerve is faradised ; this causes the usual reflex inhibition of vasto-crureus , an inhibition which , if there be little or no tonus in that muscle at the time , is difficult to detect by mere inspection , though easily revealed by abolition of the knee-jerk .
If the faradisation of the central end of the hamstring nerve be continued for some seconds , e.g. , three , on its cessation there often ensues a marked reflex extension of the knee .
This is no mere return to previously existent slight tonus ; it is a fairly intense contraction of the vasto-crureus , often sufficient to extend the knee fully On Innervation of Antagonistic .
1906 .
] and passing off again in three or four seconds ' time .
It sets in , in my experience , not at the very moment of withdrawal of the inhibitory stimulus , but in the course usually of the first three seconds following that withdrawal .
A tap given to the patellar tendon appears sometimes to elicit it when otherwise it would not ensue spontaneously .
Eelated to this phenomenon seems the following .
When a flexion reflex of the hind limb is by appropriate stimulation continued for a long time in the spinal dog , the flexion tends to be broken through* from time to time by short-lasting explosive extensions of the limb , much resembling the " extensor-thrust .
" In all these cases the extensor arc during the flexion-reflex has been under prolonged inhibition , and the superactivity which it shows under a test stimulus , the " spontaneous " discharge which it exhibits on relief from the inhibition , and the explosive outbreak which it gives when the inhibitory reflex is getting fatigued , all seem to be evidences of " successive spinal induction " supervening as a rebound after inhibition .
The effect upon the direct flexion-reflex of an intercurrent extension reflex is , in my experience , much less marked than the converse just described .
This may be due in part to my having used the crossed extension-reflex and not a direct extension-reflex as the intercurrent reflex .
The crossed reflex is less potent and powerful than the uncrossed reflex.f But the only homonymous extension-reflex of the limb available is the " extensor-thrust , " and that is so unmanageable , and especially is so little capable of prolongation , that it was unsuited to this purpose .
However , an influence can be traced , and in other ways than by intercurrent extension in a series of reflex flexions .
Thus , with the spinal animal vertical , the hind limbs are taken and kept fully extended at hip , knee , and ankle ; then usually , in a short time , a strong flexion-reflex at hip and knee supervenes .
Again , if similarly one hind limb be strongly passively flexed at hip but strongly extended at knee and kept in that posture for a short time , it is usual for any attempt to passively extend the hip to elicit at once strong reflex contraction of the flexors of the hip , preventing passive extension .
Nevertheless , the greater inductive effect of flexion upon extension than of extension upon flexion as examined at the knee-joint , seems , in my experience , marked .
In regard to it one remembers that though electrical stimulation of the afferent nerve-fibres from the flexor muscles has been shown to inhibit the reflex contraction of the extensor , it has not been * ' Journ. of Physiol.,5 vol. 34 , p. 34 , fig. 21 , phase 3 .
+ Sherrington , ' Brit. Assoc. Reports,5 ibid. X ' Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 vol. 52 , p. 556 .
VOL. LXXVII.\#151 ; B. 2 N Fig. 5.\#151 ; Crossed extension-reflex in the spinal dog .
The reflex was evoked at one-minute intervals by equal series of break induced-currents applied unipolarly to the skin of a digit of the fellow limb to that yielding the record .
The reflex was of low intensity , the induced currents being weak , and only 10 being delivered , so that the stimulus , at the rate chosen for the succession of the currents , lasted less than a half-second .
Between stimulations A and B a strong flexion-reflex of the limb , namely of that limb entering into extension in the crossed extension-reflex , was provoked and maintained for 35 seconds .
The extension reflex B following next after the intercalated flexion-reflex shows increase in amplitude and duration , especially in after-discharge .
This increase subsides gradually , but is obvious in the three following reflexes C , 1 ) , and E , also elicited ' at one-minute intervals .
In reflex F , evoked in the fifth minute after the intercalated flexion-reflex , the augmentation is not present , and the reflex intensity is about equal to that obtaining in the series , of which A is an example , elicited before the intercalation of the flexion-reflex .
The signal above registers the series of break-shocks forming each stimulus .
Time is signalled below in seconds .
The intensity of the stimulus and the point of its application remained unaltered throughout the series of records .
488 * Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Jan. 31 , 1906 .
] On Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Crossed extension-reflex .
The reflex was being elicited regularly by short series of break-shocks , the series being equal in intensity and duration .
( In 26 nine shocks were delivered instead of eight in the other stimulations , owing to a defect in the rotating key .
) Reflex No. 1 is the last of a series of equal reflexes thus provoked ; both stimulus and reflex were of low intensity .
After reflex No. 1 in the one-minute interval between it and 2a , a strong flexion-reflex of the limb was excited and maintained for 40 seconds .
The next following reflex 2a exhibits augmentation , and this augmentation is obvious also in reflex 26 .
Reflex 2d was elicited two minutes after 26 , and shows no augmentation .
It is somewhat less than the reflex evoked just prior to the intercalated flexion-reflex .
The signal above registers the time , etc. , of the break-shocks used as stimuli .
Time is marked below in seconds .
The intensity of the stimulus and the place of its application remained unaltered throughout the series of observations .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Jan. 31 , shown conversely that similar stimulation of the afferent fibres of the extensor muscle ( vasto-crureus ) inhibits contraction of the flexor muscle .
To examine this latter point is not altogether easy , since the nerve severance of the vasto-crureus nerve , in order to stimulate its central end , of necessity renders impossible the maintenance , let alone the examination , of any reflex status of that muscle .
I have , however , succeeded in splitting the nerve , and if that is done without too much damage to either half of it , one division can be severed and dissected back into the psoas , and the other remain preserving the knee-jerk and , more important , a fair extensor tonus at the knee .
The central end of the severed division can then be stimulated , and its effect on the rest of the extensor muscle itself be thus observed .
To employ electrical stimulation with as little risk of escape of current as possible it is necessary to cut the divided nerve as low as possible , and dissect it up into psoas as high as possible ; in this way I have obtained sometimes 5 cm .
length of free nerve .
I have further exsected the internal saphenous nerve right up into the psoas , and also the external division of the muscular division of the anterior crural nerve , hoping thus to minimise current escape from the stimulated branch of vasto-crureus nerve to those other branches of the anterior crural .
In a previous communication I discarded effects of electrical stimulation of the nerve of the extensor muscle as too open to error by escape of current.* Further examination with the above precautions makes me , however , regard the following as reliable reflex effects obtainable by stimulation of the central end of the vasto-crureus nerve itself : inhibition of the tonus of vasto-crureus itself , the tonus returning to some extent immediately on cessation of the stimulus if the stimulus be weak and brief ; inhibition of the knee-jerk , contraction of rectus femoris , especially of its upper part , and tensor vaginae femoris and psoas , dorso-flexion of ankle , some slight contraction of the hamstring muscles , especially deep inner hamstring , and extension of opposite knee with inhibition of its hamstring muscles .
These effects obtained by faradic excitation are also obtainable , but in slighter measure , by drawing a ligature tight upon the central end of the nerve ( mechanical stimulation ) .
The total effect is flexion of the homonymous and extension of the opposite limb .
There is thus no evidence that the afferent nerve-fibres from this extensor muscle when excited in these ways inhibit contraction of the flexors , although the afferent fibres from the knee-flexor when similarly excited do inhibit contraction of this extensor .
Reciprocal innervation is evident in the reflex effect obtained from the afferents of each muscle , for those of * ' Eoy .
Soc. Proc./ B , vol. 76 , p. 283 .
1906 .
] On Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
491 each inhibit one set of muscles and excite the muscles antagonistic to the inhibited group .
But in each case the reciprocal innervation has the same direction , namely , excitation of the flexors and inhibition of the extensors .
This relation would obviously tend to make it more facile for flexion of the limb to successively induce extension than for extension to induce flexion .
And another consideration has to he borne in mind .
The measure to which the intercurrent flexion-reflex exalts the following crossed extension-reflex can be estimated in terms of the relation existing in the crossed extension-reflex between intensity of exciting stimulus and intensity of reflex response .
A somewhat widely-expressed opinion is found in the literature dealing with reflex action to the effect that intensity of reflex response is relatively little determined by increase of intensity of exciting stimulus ( Wundt* Hallsten , + Biedermann , $ BaglioniS ) .
Observations by Merzbacher|| in the intact limb of the frog , and by ParilF in the isolated gastrocnemius , by myself** in the scratch-reflex , and by Langendorffft in the flexion-reflex of the tortoise , show that in some spinal reflexes at least there can be obtained marked grading of intensity of reflex response in conformity with grading of intensity of stimulus .
In the extension-reflex of the hind limb as obtained by stimulation of the opposite hind foot the amplitude of the movement and its duration increase with increase of intensity of the exciting stimulus .
The relation between the intensity of the stimulus and that of the response in this reflex is , in my experience , somewhat different from that which obtains in several other reflexes , e.g. , in the direct flexion-reflex and in the scratch-reflex .
The successive increments of intensity of stimulus cause increase of the extension-reflex by fairly gradual and regular degrees up to a certain point .
Beyond that point relatively larger increments of reflex response result from increase in intensity of stimulation ( fig. 7 ) .
This character of the ratio in this reflex between increment of stimulus and increase of response is especially evident with the after-discharge of the latter .
In regard to the successive spinal induction exemplified by the reflex , it is clear that if the intensity of stimulus chosen for testing the crossed extension-reflex be near below that value at which * ' Untersuch .
z. Mechanik d. Nerven u. Nervencentren .
' + ' Archiv f. Physiol. , ' 1885\#151 ; 1888 .
J ' Pfluger 's Archiv , ' vol. 80 .
S ' Verworn 's Zeitschrift .
' || ' Pfluger 's Archiv .
' IF ' Archives Italiennes de Biol. ' ** ' Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' March , 1904 .
+t ' Sitzungsb .
d. Naturforsch .
Aersam .
, ' 1905 .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Crossed extension reflex .
Grading of intensity reflex corresponding with grading of intensity of stimulus .
The time and duration of the stimulus are shown in the top line by the electro-magnet signal , in the primary circuit of the stimulating apparatus .
For the elicitation of each reflex 12 break-shocks , at the rate of 25 per second , were delivered by a needle kathode to the skin of a digit of the opposite foot ; the anode was diffuse and applied headward of the spinal transection .
An interval of two minutes elapsed between each stimulation and the one next following it .
Intensity of stimulus .
Measure of reflex .
Reflex 1 .
475 35 2 .
560 5 3 .
690 7 4 .
890 9 5 .
1100 355 6 .
1400 459 7 .
560 45 he intensity of stimulus is given iu units of the Kronecker inductorium scale ; measure of reflex in units of area of the records registered in the tracing .
Time below in seconds .
The record is from the same animal as that yielding fig. 8 .
492 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Jan. 31 , 1906 .
] On Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
further increment produces great increase of response , the exaltation induced by an intercurrent flexion-reflex need not be very extreme to give , nevertheless , a very apparent and great increase in the response .
A not very extreme superactivity induced in the internal condition of the arc might suffice to give the external stimulus a value equivalent to a stimulus that would produce a very much greater reflex response .
In the homonymous flexion-reflex the increments of reflex response ensuing from increments of intensity of stimulus follow , in my experience , a more regular progressive increase ( fig. 8 ) than in the crossed extension-reflex .
There is therefore with this flexion-reflex less chance of successive spinal induction effecting an augmentation apparently so large as with the extension-reflex .
This also has to be remembered , therefore , in contrasting the smaller effect observed in the induction of flexion by extension than of extension by flexion in the hind limb .
The linking together of the simpler reflexes which compose a usual reflex cycle doubtless involves several processes ; it has attracted the attention of observers from several points of view .
Loeb* has illustrated how in regard to segmental reflexes the effect of the reflex in one segment may be to transfer the external stimulus to another segment where it in turn excites the reflex of that segment , and so on further .
In this way the reflex sequences , which he terms " Ketten-reflexe , " can be- compounded .
Another interesting connecting process welding simpler reflexes into more composite is that discovered by v. Uexkiill.t He has shown that a piece of musculature , under static conditions which make it of greater length , is more prone to excitation through the nervous arcs than it is under conditions in which its length is less .
Thus , if we suppose a pair of muscles , A and B , which under equal activity retain the lever on which they antagonistically operate in such a position that A is equal in length to B , and if we suppose that a new position be given to the lever such that A is longer than B , the neuro-muscular condition becomes altered so that A is more prone to be excited through .the nervous arcs than is B. If I represent rightly in this way the principle arrived at by v. Uexkiill , it will be seen that in some of the experiments mentioned in this Note and in my previous ones , the conditions resemble those in which v. Uexkiill finds his principle at work .
A third process , qualified to play a part in linking together simpler reflexes so as to form from them reflex cycles of action , seems successive spinal induction .
It appears especially fitted to combine the successive * ' Vergleicliende Gehirnphysiologie , ' Leipzig , 1899 , p. 96 .
t ' Zeitschrift f. Biologie , ' vol. 44 .
Fig. 8 .
Flexion-reflex .
Spinal dog .
Grading of intensity of reflex with grading of intensity of stimulus .
The stimulus for each reflex was 72 break induction-currents at the rate of 40 per second .
This stimulus is registered above by an electro-magnet in the primary circuit of the stimulating apparatus .
Abscissae on the myograph curves show the moment of delivery and of cessation of stimulus in relation to those curves .
The reflexes I , II , III , IY , Y , VI , and yil were obtained in the order written at two-minute intervals .
Intensity of Measure of Measure of Intensity of stimulus .
Measure of Measure of Reflex I ... stimulus .
reflex .
after-discharge .
reflex .
after-discharge .
94 51 Reflex V ... 1900 1272 964 II ... 200 119 VI ... 1765 1452 Ill . .
666 509 VII ... 350 62 34 IV .
913 692 The clonus of the after-discharge is well seen in Curve V , which is here reproduced directly from the actual record , the other curves are transparency-tracings from the actual records obtained in the consecutive series of which y was the fifth member , and superposed on original tracing V for comparison and condensation of the record .
Time below in seconds .
From the same animal which yielded fig. 7 .
494 Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Jan. 31 , 1906 .
] On Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
495 opposite phases of such cyclic reflexes as I have termed " alternating , " * and shown to he particularly characteristic of the locomotor activity of the mammalian spinal cord .
If a reflex , A , not only temporarily inhibits the action of an antagonistic reflex , B , hut also as an immediately subsequent result induces in arc of B a phase of superactivity , the central organ is in that way predisposed for a second reflex opposite to A to occur in immediate succession to A itself .
Such an effect seems proved by the observations in this and a preceding communication .
A difficulty in applying it to the case of an ordinary alternating reflex , the stepping reflex of the spinal dog , lies in the intensity and long duration of the reactions which I have employed in order to produce it experimentally . .
Such intensity and duration certainly do not occur in the course of the alternating reflexes as ordinarily observed .
This , I think , does not exclude the likelihood that successive spinal induction is a factor which does contribute to the mechanism of alternating reflexes , although operating in smaller degree than as exemplified in the intenser examples obtained under experimental conditions and mentioned in this Note .
Addendum , March 14 , 1906 .
Since concluding the above I have met with marked successive induction and rebound contraction following stimulation of the proximal end of one-half of the split vasto-crureusnerve when the stimulus has been quite brief and weak , i.e. , has not been detectible to the tongue-tip , and has lasted only from 1 to 2 seconds .
Starting with the knee in semi-flexion , the stimulus has caused immediate relaxation of the vasto-crureus ( inhibition ) , followed , on discontinuing the stimulus , by a rebound contraction , that has thrown the knee into full extension .
This result has been obtained with mechanical , as well as electrical stimulation , of the nerve .
It has also been obtained by stimulation of the central end of the whole vasto-crureus nerve after total severance of that nerve ; the extension then obtained is due to extensors at hip and ankle , and guarantees that , in the rebound reflex , these latter extensors , as well as the extensors of the knee , are thrown into contraction .
The difficulty expressed in the concluding sentence above , of applying successive induction and rebound contraction to explain natural " alternating " reflexes , because of the lengthy and intense stimuli required to obtain them experimentally , is therefore greatly lessened .
An instance of distinct rebound , induced by quite brief inhibition , is furnished in a figure illustrating the notef on innervation of antagonistic muscles next preceding * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 184 , 1898 .
t 'Boy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' vol. B , 76 , p. 277 , April 17 , 1905 , 8tlx note , fig. 3 .
Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Jan. 31 , Fig. 9.\#151 ; Myograph record of reflex contraction of extensor of knee interrupted by a reflex inhibition ( relaxation ) .
The reflex contraction was induced by stimulation ( unipolar faradisation ) of the skin of the opposite foot : this stimulation was applied during the time marked by the lower signal ; its movements of commencement and ending are marked by abscissae on the myogram .
Towards the height of the reflex contraction a brief stimulation ( unipolar faradisation ) was applied to the skin of the foot homonymous with the knee extensor yielding the myogram : the duration of this inhibiting stimulus is marked by the upper signal .
The knee extensor at outset was in some tonic contraction due to " decerebrate rigidity .
" The reflex inhibition relaxes this in addition to inhibiting the current reflex from the crossed foot .
On return of the reflex subsequent to its inhibition there is distinct increase in the height of the reflex contraction as compared with the height of contraction immediately prior to the inhibition .
Time is marked below in fifths of second .
1906 .
] On Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
the present .
There an inhibition lasting only a fraction of a second is seen to induce a rebound of extensor contraction , which adds itself to a reflex concurrently in progress .
Attention was not drawn to this feature in describing the tracing at the time , because I did not then appreciate it .
The figure is here reproduced as fig. 9 .
The rebound is slight but distinct .
The successive induction , and its rebound contraction , are obtained after severance of the hamstring nerve .
They are therefore not referable , as might , perhaps , be thought , to centripetal impulses generated in the hamstring muscles when contracting reflexly in response to stimulation of the afferent nerve of the extensor .
The successive induction appears , therefore , directly , not indirectly , related to the stimulation of the afferent nerve of the extensor .

