]\gt ; Series Lines in the Spectrum of gnesium .
Until other examples of spark series have been discovered , it is evident that no definite conclusion can be drawn .
An alternatiye view would be to suppose that the new series , both in magnesium and hydrogen , are series of a uew type , having no necessarily simple relation to other series in the respective spectra .
In that case the two series attributed to might equally be supposed to belong to helium , the presence of which is necessary for their production in the laboratory ; it is difficult to believe , however , that the close agreement of one of the series with the Principal series calculated for hydrogen by Rydberg is merely accidental .
Additional Triplets and other Series Lines in the Spectrum of By A. FOWLER , F.B.S. , Assistant Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science and , South Kensington , and W. H. BEYNOLDS , B.Sc. , , Research Student .
( Received June 12 , \mdash ; Bead June 26 , 1913 .
) [ PLATE 7 .
] Recent of the spectrum of the rnesium arc in vacuo , taken primarily for the investigation of enhanced lines , *have revealed several additional members of the triplet and single line series .
For some of the previously known lines it has also been possible to obtain improved wavelengths on account of their greater sharpness under these conditions .
It is believed that the results will form a useful contribution to the general study of series lines , and they have accordingly been brought together in the present communication .
For the representation of the series , the formula , as modified by and Hicks , been employed , namely ' * See Fowler , this vol. , p. 133 .
' Roy .
Acad. Amsterdam Proc 1906 , vol. 9 , p. 434 .
'Phil .
Trans. ' 1910 , , vol. 210 , p. 57 .
Messrs. Fowler and Reynolds .
Additional Triplets where gives the oscillation frequencies of successive lines corresponding to integer values of is the convergence frequency , or limit , of the series ; 109,675 is the general series constant derived from the Balmer sel.ies of hydrogen lines ; and are constants to be determined for each senes .
In some cases , it has been necessary to introduce an additional term in the denominator , as found by Hicks , in order to represent the lines with greater accuracy .
The spectrum of the manesium arc vacuo , in the visible region , has already been described by Fowler and Pain .
* Photographs including the ultra-violet are reproduced in Plate 7 .
They show the bands attributed to ynesium hydride , together with the lines which are characteristic of the arc , spark , and flame .
In the spectrum the Rydberg series of single lines is well developed , while in the ultra-violet the triplets and spark lines are striking features .
Observations have shown that the spark lines are best developed on the ative pole , while the aro lines are especially conspicuous in the green flame .
In the tables which follow , the wave-lengths are on 's scale , and oscillation frequencies have been reduced to vacuum .
Diffuse ( Suborclinate ) Series of Details relating to the Diffuse series of triplets are given in Table I , Kayser and e 's values included for comparison so far as they go .
The formula calculated for the less refrangible components of the triplets , from the first two and last of the obse1ved members of the series , is The observed computed values of the frequencies ( 0-C ) are given in Column 8 and it will be seen that this formula does not represent the se1ies quite within the estimated limits of error , nearly so .
A more accurate representation of the lines is giyen by a term namely As shown in Column 9 the lines are very closely represented by equation . .
Soc. Proc 1903 , vol. 72 , p. 253 .
and other Series Lines the ) Table I.\mdash ; The Diffuse } of Triplets .
VOL. LXXXIX .
Messrs. Fowler and Reynolds .
Additional bordinate)of Details of the Sharp series of are given in Table IT .
The formula calculated for the less ible components from the first three and the last line is Following Hicks , a term has been introduced for the better represent of , and Ilas been taken reater than unity .
I will be seen that the lines are represented almost perfectly by equation givon ) the limit of the series only differs by lies of Triplets .
Remarks .
for the calculation of constants .
The in Column 4 for triplet { roltl the .
The triplet falls in a group of five relatively strong lines , { its components to be masked by lines for which wave-lengths are , 277 two neigl1bouring lines are 2779.94 , and Series Lines in of .
14 ] .
from the liDlit for the series th is introduced .
As regards the agreement of the observed and calculated values , an almost equally result is obtained by less than unity , that is 2 for .
Using the same lines as before the tion then becomes The limit is scalcely changed , and the differences O-C are respectively ( ?
) , .
Applying 's law tlris equation would lead us to expect ultra-violet series , the ] imit o obtained by would be at S5540 , and the first line of the triplet at 45780 .
ations include the region which would be occupied by this triplet , but the lines ve not been observed .
Hence , the first equation is probably correct , as indicates a principal series of triplets in the -red with its .
This series has apparently been obseryc by Paschen , the limit calculated from the actual lines observed is iven by hinl as From the data given the mean interval between the hrst and second members of the r , riplets in the Diffuse and Sharp sel.ies is , and between the second third .
The formula the seconlil and third components may bc deduced by and from the first of the equations 1 the first of the triplets given above .
As roduced in the in lines of the of lines are very diffne , especially on their less ) sidcs , for the first few lines the ths have not previously been with any great of accuracy .
) arc in ives them quite shal.ply , and has been taken of this to better values for the wave-lengths .
In Table IIT the lirst line is from 1aschen ; the next are from 's solar tables ; the next four determined from a photograph of the arc taken with a 10-foot concave , and the last three from photographs with a prismatic spectroscope .
This series has long been recognised as one which cannot be accurately by a formula , and the reyised -lengths a further 'Aun .
Phyb ( 4 ) , vol. ) essrs .
, er and Reynolds .
Additionat Priplets test .
The Hicks equation calculated from the first three and last lines of the observed spectrum is The differences , " " observed - computed\ldquo ; frequencies , are shown in Column S. able I of ingle Lines .
* Used in the calculation of constants .
It will be observed that even a four-constant formula does not represent all the observed within the limits of error , and that extrapolation to the infra-red member of the series is very defective .
Further , the negative value obtained by ) is , and this is far from being in agreement with the infra-red line of which chen regards as connected with the series .
If the infra-red line and the three following lines are used for calculation , the formula becomes giving .
The ative value obtained by ) utting is now , in place of the closer approximation to , which might have been expected from the lines eIIll ) loyed f calculation .
It is evident that the formulae given above do not well represent the Rydberg series as a whole .
The limit of the series , however , is not likely to be far from the value given by the first formula , namely , other Sei les Lines in the Spectrum of gnesium .
143 [ Notc.\mdash ; An result , which follows from the revision of the wave-lengths of the lines of the series , is the identification of four additional solar lines with lines of magnesium .
The details are as follows , including the three lines ) reviously identified by vland : It will be seen that the in the sun are consistently than the in the arc , but this may perhaps be accounted for by the unsymmetrical character of the arc lines , which are shaded towards the red , and would produce a displacement to the side of longer -lengths in the arc measurements .
There can be no doubt that the four important solar lines in question should be assigned to magnesium .
The lines of the series cannot be traced with tainty in the solar , on account of their ) on iron lines .
] Series ) Lincs .
There are two tJlher magnesium tlrc lines which ) pear to ) elated to the ydberg series , though no connection has hitherto been ised .
heir wave-lengths , as given by Kayser and Bunge , are and .
Assuming that the two lines are successive members of a series , a simple ydberg formula gives the limit of the series as , which is very nearly that of the ydberg series .
If the limit then be assumed to be identical with that of the Rydberg series , a Hicks formula indicates a third line about .
This line has not reviously been recorded , but it is readily seen in photographs of the ordinary magnesium arc taken with adequate ) osure and dispersion ; its waye-length is .
The three lines are all of the same character as those of the ydberg series , but much weaker , and their intensities diminish in Messrs. Fowler and Reynolds .
Additional iplets to the violet in the manner characteristic of series lines .
The first line is identified by Bowland with the solar line ; the second is doubtless identical with the solar line , though it is llot assigned to magnesium by Bowland ; and the third is probably identical with the solar line .
Adopting the solar wave-lengths as the best approximation to the true wave-leng6hs of the lines , the Hicks formula is Details as to the lines are given in Table The equation for this series that it is of the Sharp or second subordinate type , while the series is the associated Diffuse or first subordinate series .
If this be so , the variable part of the equation when be expected to approximate to the lillit of the , if such a series exists .
The variable ) is actually , and the line of the series would be ) eoted at .
at 3882 .
is , \ldquo ; no line 1leal ' this ) osition .
In anothel ) it is ested that Principal series may be the newly nised ) series finninUc at , but this is far reeing with the foregoing calculation .
It is not inll ) ossible that the first member of the ) series sought for may be the arc 35056 , but the discordance would then be even greater than for the spark series .
for1nula capable of more eneral application in the representation of series reatly to be desired .
For completeness , it should be recalled that there is a feebly leveloped series of lines which is also associated with the series. .
The waveFowler , .
cit. Fowler , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1903 , vol. 71 , p. 420 . . . .
other Series Lines in the of ) .
145 of heHe lines are about ) ) .
A Hicks , calculated from the first three lines , ives the limit of the ; as , while if the term be introduced by nsing all four lines the calculated limit is .
These are as near to the limit of the .
series as can be expected from the approximate which can alone be obtained .
The series may be arded as a third subordinate one .
1 .
triplets have been measured in the spectrtlll of the arc ) of which belong the ) iffnsP and two to the Sharp series .
For some of the preyionsly } lines illproved wavehaye also ) ined .
2 .
Four additional members of the of single lines been raphed .
a not ately represent this Heries . .
Four strong lines of previously ) been identified with lines of the , namely , 4 .
A unrecorded line at ) be united in a series with known lines and having th( linlit its the ) series .
This series probahly of the ) or seco R ) DESCRIPTION OF The photographs show the spectrunn of the magnesium.arc , between wavelengths and , and indicate the various in which ) lines have been classified .
The lettelH at the bide have the following :\mdash ; , Rydberg series of single lines .
, Probable second subordinate to ) series .
, Diffuse ( ltit sub .
) series of triplets .
, Sharp ( 2nd sub .
) series of triplets .
Series of spark lines .
In addition to lines of magnesium , the photographs show the magnesium hydride bands in the neighbourhood of 560 , , and 480 , and background of faint lines due to the same substance .
There are also a few lines due to impurities of calcium , iron , and manganese , the most prominent being those of calcium at 3934 , 4227 .

