246 Prof. Karl Pearson and Miss Alice Lee .
" On the Vibrations in the Field round a Theoretical Hertzian Oscillator .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. , and Alice Lee , B.A. , B.Sc. , University College , London .
Received January 2 , \#151 ; Read January 19 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) ( 1 ) The object of this paper is to investigate the types of wave motion in the neighbourhood of a theoretical Hertzian oscillator .
By a theoretical Hertzian oscillator the writers understand a Maxwellian " double point " of initial maximum moment \#177 ; EZ .
But as the actual oscillator has been shown by Bjerknes and others to give a damped wave train , we take the maximum moment to run down with the time , and to oscillate between the limits \#177 ; E le~^t .
This gives a wave train corresponding to that observed by Bjerknes and represented at a given distance by Ce~Pif sin ( p2t + y ) .
The investigation for a " double point " with a steady wave train was originally made by Hertz himself , and has found its way into most of the current text-books of electro-magnetism .
The theory thus given , is insufficient for two reasons , both of which were recognised by Hertz himself , namely , because ( i ) the actual oscillator has sensible extension , and ( ii ) the wave train it gives forth is not steady .
The present paper only attempts to remove the latter objection to Hertz 's original theory ; like that theory it becomes less accurate as we approach nearer to an actual oscillator .
Still the range within which the damping produces a very sensible divergence from Hertz 's theory , seems sufficiently large to allow of experiment being made at a considerable distance from the oscillator ; certainly the chief divergences between the present and Hertz 's original theory actually fall in the portion of the field , wherein his chief interference experiments were made .
Besides therefore the difficulties arising from the phenomena of " multiple resonance , " it seems necessary to measure the influence of damping in modifying the mathematical results for a steady wave train , which results are what Hertz made use of in interpreting his interference experiments .
The four sources of divergence between theory and experiment in Hertz 's case , : ( i ) the damping of the wave train , ( ii ) the size of the oscillator , ( iii ) multiple resonance , ( iv ) defect of electro-magnetic theory , may one or all be effective , but the object of the present papei is confined entirely to a theoretical investigation of the first .
Vibrations in Field round a Theoretical Hertzian Oscillator .
247 ( 2 ) After the writers had investigated the general theory of a double point with damped intensity , an attempt was made to replace the well-known Hertzian diagrams of the field by a more complete series , representing the field for seven complete oscillations , and showing how the field for some twelve metres round the oscillator chosen , gradually falls to nearly TV of its maximum initial strength .
These diagrams are entirely due to Miss Alice Lee , and involved a large expenditure of labour and time , which would , perhaps , not have been justified were any other graphic representation of a damped wave motion available.* These diagrams were originally intended for kinematograph representation , but that method of reproduction has not yet been found feasible .
( 3 .
) The writers next deal with the type of waves propagated , their velocities and their phases .
The following general conclusions are reached:\#151 ; ( i ) Three waves of electro-magnetic force may be considered as sent out from the oscillator , and not merely two as supposed by Hertz .
These are:\#151 ; ( a ) A wave of purely transverse electric force .
( b ) A wave of electric force parallel to the axis , briefly termed the wave of axial electric force .
( c- )A wave of magnetic force .
The waves of axial electric and of magnetic force move outwards with the same velocity , which is , however , a function of the distance from the centre of the oscillator .
The intensity of both forces for points on the same sphere varies as the cosine of the latitude , the polar axis being the axis of the oscillator .
The wave of transverse electric force is propagated with the same velocity at all equal distances from the centre of the oscillator , but this velocity differs from that of the two previous waves , the amplitude is independent of the latitude , being constant over any sphere .
The velocity after the wave has reached a certain distance from the double point is always greater than that of the waves of magnetic and axial electric force .
Its excess over the velocity of light tends to become three times the excess of the velocity of the magnetic wave over the velocity of light ; both the excesses decreasing asymptotically .
( ii ) The velocities of these waves undergo remarkable changes in the neighbourhood of the oscillator , but these changes extend to distances which are greater than those within which a great proportion of Hertz 's interference experiments were made .
( iii ) The point of zero phase for both transverse and axial electric waves does not coincide with the centre of the oscillator , so that these waves appear to start from spheres of small but finite radius round * It must be remembered that a damped wave motion does not denote merely a factor e-Vi* in the wave intensity , but a factor wliicli sensibly alters the shape of the lines of force propagated .
248 Proceedings and List of Papers read .
the oscillator .
A fourth wave dealt with by Hertz , namely , the wave of magnetic induction , does not , as he supposes , start with zero phase from the origin , but with a finite phase .
The wave in the equatorial plane , largely relied upon by Hertz for his interference experiments " of the first kind , " is a compound of the waves of transverse and axial electric force , and has a much more complex series of velocity changes than Hertz appears to have realised .
( iv ) The existence of the two electric force waves and the singular points or surfaces for the wave motion in the neighbourhood of the oscillator very possibly throw light on the difficulties which arise in Hertz 's experiments .
It would seem that such experiments should be made at distances greater than 6 to 7 ( A/ 2 ?
r ) from the centre of the oscillator , or , roughly , about a wave-length from the oscillator .
In Hertz 's case this amounts to about 10 metres\#151 ; a distance at which Hertz rather terminated than started his interference experiments .
Only at such a distance are the phase curves sensibly linear .
The authors are not unaware of the physical difficulties of experiment at great distances , and wish , therefore , to emphasise again the fact that they are dealing with a theoretical oscillator .
It is , however , this type for which Hertz himself endeavoured to provide a mathematical investigation , and it is that investigation which , in the first instance , they have attempted to expand and modify .
January 26 , 1899 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. G. J. Shaw-Lefevre , a member of Her Majesty 's Most Honourable Privy Council , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Contributions to the Theory of Simultaneous Partial Differential Equations .
" By Dr. A. C. Dixon .
Communicated by Professor G. J. Allman , F.R.S. II .
" On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Rocks .
III .
On Medullosa a new Representative of the Cycadofilices .
" By Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S.

