]\gt ; Mr. F. W. Aston .
The Distribution of [ Nov. 22 , about the time of transit , the aspect of the head and nucleus of the comet was rapidly changing from day to day .
Before the transit the part of the head the sum was principally visible ; near the transit another parb of the comet 's head was visible from the earth ; while after transit the hotter side of the coma would again radually come into view .
It is quite conceivable that this presentation of such diHerent portions of the comet might exhibit notable differences of spectrum .
From a series of preliminary experiments it has been found at very remarkable changes of intensity of these carbon bands may be brought about by simple variations of the conditions of volatilisation ; so much so , that this would probably serve as the more satisfactory reason for differences between various of the comet 's spectrum , provided , of course , that any known instrumental or atmospheric differences are duly considered .
I am indebted to Mr. J. P. H. Wilkie , photographer to the Observatory , for help in the preparation of the illustrations to this report .
The Distribution of Electric Force in the Crookes Dark Space .
By F. W. ASTON , B.Sc. , A.I.C. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S.\mdash ; Received November 22 , 1910 , \mdash ; Read January 12 , 1911 .
) The electric force in the Crookes dark space and the negative glow has been the subject of a considerable number of ations .
The first determination was made by Schuster , *whose results indicate the presence of a positive charge of electricity , whose density decreases in geometrical progression as the distance from the cathode increases in arithmetical progression .
Grahamt found a curious drop in potential near the cathode , but Wehnalt , repeating these experiments , was unable to find this drop of potential , and ascribes it to the fact that the exploring points were not in the direct line of the current .
SkinnerS came to the conclusion that all the fall of potential occurs at the surface of the cathode .
Becently , has made a careful series of observations with cathodes of different metals * .
Soc. Proc 1890 , vol. 47 , p. 526 .
Wied .
Ann 1898 , vol. 64 , p. 49 .
'Ann . .
Phys 1903 , ( 4 ) , vol. 10 , p. 642 .
S 'Phil .
Mag , ' 1902 , 6 , vol. 2 , p. 616 .
Verhand . .
Deutsch .
Phys. Ges , vol. 12 .
1910 .
] Elec Force in the Dark Space .
in several gases , using a single exploring point , in which he finds a definite fall of potential\mdash ; e.g. about 80 volts for Al in \mdash ; at the surface of the cathode , the electric force a few millimetres away appearing from his curves nearly uniform .
Now all these measurements were made by introducing sounds , i.e. metallic wires or points , into the discharge , the observers trusting to these up the potential of the gas by which they were surrounded .
The danger of such assumption has been pointed out by Sir J. J. Thomson , * and for ents made inside the dark space it seems entirely unwarranted .
Fortunately , however , there is an alternative method , which involves no doubtful assumptions , and does not introduce substantial obstacles into the discharge .
Its simplicity and elegance cannot fail to appeal to anyone investigating this field of research .
This method was suggested by Sir J. J. Thomson , and used by him recently in determining the potential distribution in the striated discharge it consists in a beam of cathode transversely through the discharge , the deflection of these being taken as a measure of the electric force at that point .
It appeared to the author that this method might be used with advantage to determine the distribution of potential near the cathode under the conditions used by him in obtaining measurements of the length of the dark spaceJ these conditions being briefly:\mdash ; Electrodes in the form of circular discs filling the discharge tube , the latter being very much wider than the maximum length of the dark space , so that the effect will be comparatively small .
Current density greater than that necessary to cover the with glow , and to cause the positive column to disappear .
It was to be expected , from the numbers obtained in the above research , that the electric forces to be snred would rise as voloe per centimetre .
Now it can be easily shown that , for an electron to attain suflicient velocity to cross a tube 10 cm .
wide under such a force with a small deflection , it is necessary for it to fall a potential of about 20,000 volts .
The principal problem to solve , crefore , was the design of a secondary tube , which , working at a pressure necessary to give a dark space of 2 to 3 cm .
in the main tube , wonld deliver a homogeneous beam of cathode rays under a working polential responding to a centimetrc spark in air .
' ' Conduction of Electricity through Gases 2nd ed. , p. 531 .
'Phil .
Mag Oct. , 1909 , vol. 18 , pp. 441\mdash ; 4Cl . .
W. Aston , Roy .
Soc. Proc 1907 , , vol. 79 .
Mr. F. W. Aston .
The Distribution of [ Nov. 22 , It only after a tedious and dispiriting investigation , in which a large number of forms of secondary tube were tried\mdash ; the whole apparatus having to be completely re-evacuated after each variation\mdash ; that the conditions were arrived at , when the rest of the research became comparatively easy .
The arrangement of the apparatus is indicated in fig. 1 .
The main tube is a cylindrical bottle 12 cm .
wide , with windows cut in the sides , which the exploring ray is to pass .
, and are three aluminium discs , just filling the tube , and kept at fixed distances apart by a framework of thin glass rods ( not shown in the figure ) .
A and are cm .
apart , and form respectively the anode and cathode of the main , which is maintained by a large battery of storage cells and controlled by a water resistance .
and form a system of parallel plates cm .
apart , to which a known potential could be applied through the flexible leads and , to determine the deflection of the rays in a known uniform field .
As it is almost impossible to maintain a steady current with aluminium electrodes in the presence of mercury vapour , the old method of moving the ctrodes up and down with a float supported on mercury was abandoned in favour of the device indicated in the figure .
Into the neck of the bottle is fitted a vertical tube , to the side of which is attached a ground-glass joint ( a good stop-cock does very well ) .
The plug of this is elongated as a rod , over which is wound a flexible conducting cable made of a few strands of the hree discs Tixing toint oupportfinest brass wpparatus tovedl 9Electric F of the system , and also of supplying the anode lead , will be easily seen from the figure , the cable runmng under a tension through the copper wire fork This simple arrangement prove quite faultless in , the plates being set at any required point with the eatest ease and accuracy .
At the one vindow of the main discharge tube was fixed a glass tube cm .
long , carrying a screen of powdered willemite , at the the secondary discharge tube .
This in its final form is practically an -ray bulb on a minute scale .
The bulb is 1 cm .
in diameter , the cathode is a piece of aluminium wire nlll .
thick , the end is ground off perfectly flat and just from the thick-walled tube into the bulb .
The anode is a brass tube 10 cm .
long , 5 mm. wide , plugged at both ends .
The the end nearest the cathode is of brass drilled with a mm. hole , at the other is of lead sheet pierced at the centre with the finest possible pinhole .
The position of both electrodes must be adjusted with great nicety in order to get rays of sufficient hardness the required pressure .
The of the secondary set exactly parallel to the plane of the cathode .
The secondary discharge was nlaintained 1 a small mot-d.ivenlVimshurst , the anode being earthed .
At first the was intermittent , and the rays far from , a difficulty instlperal)le nntil it was accidentally found .
by touching the bulb with the , that an earthed conductor allowed to " " blush\ldquo ; off on to the bulb lendered the quite continuous if its ( Iistance adjusted to suit atmospheric conditions .
When the ) aratus working well the of the } ) appeared on the screen over 40 cm .
as a sharp and almost perfectly steady circular spot , which could be read after a little practice to bont mm. range of pressure over which suitable thode rays were produced was exceedingly ited , and corresponded to a dark space in the main tube of about 3 of the .
By of the dimensions of the secondary tube another be obtained , but the above was used as being most isfactory .
The pressure was not actually measured , but could be deduced from the length of the dark space ; it from about mm. in hydrogen to mm. in the other gases .
potential between A and read on a Westou , and by means of a double switch the same instrument used for the tion of the standard field between and C. Mr. F. W. Aston .
The Distribution of [ Nov. 22 Procedurc .
The apparatus was well washed with the gas to be used , and the pressure adjusted by an oil pump and a " " charcoal liquid air\ldquo ; tube until the dark space was of suitable length and showed no ] tendency alter , and the secondary discharge was also steady .
The system of electrodes was then wound up until the pencil of cathode rays passed between and C. When these two were both connected to earth a zero was obtained .
A known potential was then put on between and , when a deflection of the spot was observed and measured on a scale attached to the screen .
The plates were now lowered until the pencil passed through the dark space and the deflections taken corresponding to different distances from the cathode until the negative glow was reached .
The plates were now raised and the observations checked on the return journey .
Results .
A typical set of readings obtained in this way is shown in the accompanying curve , in which detlections of the spot are plotted for different 5 .5 Negattve G Crookes Dark Space positions in the dark space and ative glow .
In the latter the deflection was always found to be zero , hence the electric force here is negligibly small ] compared with that in the dark space , a result reeing with that fougd by the author in a previous paper .
cit " " that the position of the anode , so long as it is in the glow , has no appreciable effect on the discharge Measurable deflections commence at the boundary of the dark space , 1910 .
] Electric Force in the Crookes Dark and within that the deflection is proportional to the distance from the negative glow , the points practically on a straight line as indicated .
( A critical examination of many sets of results shows a tendency for the curve to be a little steeper towards the ends than in middle .
) This remarkably simple empirical result was obtained with hydrogen , air , oxygen , and , so that for these , and probably for all , gases under the conditions of these expe1iments the electric force the dark space is in limjar proportion to th distance from edgj of glow .
Since the total fall of potential across the dark space will be given by integrating the electric forces , it is clear that if we convert the deflections into electric forces this fall of potential will be the area of the curve bounded by the cathode and the edge of the negative glow , i.e. half electric force at surface of cathode multiplied by length of dark space .
Before being able to obtain accurate measurements of this potential it will be necessary to find the correction for the curvature of the path of the exploring cathode beam .
Assuming the distribution found above , let electric force at unit distance from the negative glow , then , if the length of the dark space is the equation of motion of an electron at distance from the cathode is .
If is the diameter of the tube , the velocity of the particles in the athode stream , entering at a point from the cathode and leaving at solving the above equation , we get whence This is the actual displacement in the tube ; to obtain the total deflection at the screen at distance from the tube , we mubt add tiznes the value of at the point of emergence , which is Putting in the values of sinc and , we .
obtain the total ction part in square brackets the correcting factor required . .
, 532 Mr. F. W. Aston .
The Distribution of [ Nov. 22 , Under a uniform field X , the total deflection is , in the same way , Let be the actual deflection when , i.e. for a ray grazing the cathode , and the uniform electric force necessary to give unit deflection , then , putting in the numerical values of and actually used in the experiment , .
: But the total fall of potential is , putting in approximate value of .
The value of is obtained by plotting the deflections as described above , and finding where the straight line drawn through them cuts the cathode .
In the accompanying table are }iven the deflections observed , the fall of potential in the dark space calculated by the above formula , and the voltage actually observed between the electrodes .
It will be seen that , although the voltage ( and with it the current in the tube ) was varied over a wide range , .
: 1910 .
] Electric in the Crookes Spa ce .
the calculated fall of potential , though more often less than oo.reater , never differs from the observed by more than experimental error .
From this the author arrives at the conclusion that , under the conditions of the experiment , practically the whole of the potential fall takes place in the Crookes dark space , and is distributed within it in the form of a continuous parabolic field .
The so-called " " sprung It will be seen that , considering the close agreement of the fallof potential in the dark space with that between the electrodes , it is difficult to find room for the fall of the order of 20 volts close to the surface of the anode observed by Skinner , and quite impossible to do so for one of 80 volts at the surface of the cathode recently measured an exploring wire by Westphal ( ioc .
cit One is therefore driven to the conclusion that the sound does not take up the correct potential when used near the cathode .
e ; areful consideration of the conditions under which the experiments performed suggests the following possible explanation .
There is little doubt that at the surface of the cathode , when steady ldischarge is taking place , streams of positive ions\mdash ; " " Canalstrahlen represented in the by heavy lines\mdash ; are falling upon the surface of the cathode , and by their impact liberating streams of negative ions\mdash ; cathode .
rays , represented in the figure by light lines travelling in the opposite direction .
Let be a small material obstacle introduced into such a system , and let it for an instant be at the same potential as the cathode .
Such an obstacle , if sufficiently small compared with the of the space , will interfere inappreciably with the supply of ions , the bulk of which are almost certainly generated near or in the negative glow , bnt it will absolutely prevent bombardment of that part , ) of the cathode immediately beneath it , which part will at once cease to liberate \mdash ; ions .
is now being bombarbed with ions of only one sign , and its potential must inevitably rise .
As this happens it will defiect the passing VOL. LXXXIV.\mdash ; A. 2 .
W. Aston .
The Distribution of [ Nov. 22 , close to it out of their normal path , making the " " shadow\ldquo ; or inactive part still larger ( fig. 3 ) , until finally its potential will rise so high that it is able to deflect to itself the \mdash ; ions generated at the boundaries of in sufficient numbers to exactly balance the supply of ions in whose direct path it still lies , when equilibrium potential will be established .
Since the equilibrium potential between the obstacle and the cathode is .
only concerned with the relative intensity of the supplies of \mdash ; ions , it will be practically independent of the gas pressure and the current density , and , in fact , be expected to behave very much as does Westphal 's " " Kathodensprung which seems in all probability non-existent in a normal unobstructed Theoretical Aspects of the Results .
A detailed enquiry into the theoretical considerations involved in the somewhat remarkable result of this ation is beyond the scope of the present paper , but a few of the more salient points may be referred to .
with Since the rate of change of electric force in the dark space is uniform , the latter must be a region in which the free electrification has a uniform excess positive density , such that if is the potential fall across the dark space and its length , The author has shown ( ioc .
cit. ) that if is constant varies very nearly universely as the pressure ; hence for a constant voltage varies directly as the square of the pressure .
It , however , bears no simple relation to the voltage or the current density at constant pressure .
The assumption made for simplicity by the author in the above paper that the density of the free negative electrification in the dark space be neglected is clearly incorrect , since the excess of positive ions must carry more current in the stronger parts of the field than they do in the weaker ones , so that in the latter ions of both signs must be present to maintain the flow .
It appears , indeed , that the actual number of ions of both sigIJs per cubic centimetre increases as we move away from the cathode , their algebraic sum being the constant , which becomes zero with surprising suddenness at the of the negative glow .
If we suppose that at the surface of the cathode a constant fraction of the total current is carried by this excess of positive ions , and that their velocity is proportional to the field at .
that point , we obtain a value of the mobility , which is the same expression ( with different constants ) as that obtained on other premises in the above paper , and shown to be notably constant for a given gas .
1910 .
] Electric Force in the Croohes Space .
5 35 The fall of potential across the new dark space discovered by the author in helium and hydrogen , *must , from the results of this investigation , be taken as instead of , which works out at 20 volts for hydrogen , 40 volts for helium , but the considerations involved in theory suggested for this phenomenon are not affected .
Sn of Results .
( 1 ) The electric force in the negative oolow is ibly small compared with that in the dark space .
( 2 ) The electric force in the dark space very nearly lineal relation to the distance from the negative glow ; and , hence , ( 3 ) The dark space is a of miform positive electrification with great suddenness in the ative glow .
( 4 ) The total fall of potential inside the dark space , calculated from the results obtained , rees within the of experiment ) that obsel'ved across the electrodes .
( 5 ) The method of exploring points is inapplicable to the space , the large falls of potential at the surface of the cathode , observed ) its use , are probably non-existent unobstructed In conclusion , the author wishes to express his indebtedness to Prof. J. J. Thomson , both for the method employed and for his kind hclp and ement during the ation .
F. W. Aston , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1907 , , vol. 80 .

