1882 .
] Electric Discharge with Chloride of Silver Battery .
437 Alphabetical List of Reference Letters .
All .
Allantois .
JB.v .
Blastodermic vesicle .
c.v. Cellular layer derived from placental pole of blastodermic vesicle .
ep .
Epiblast .
fa .
False amnion cavity , hy .
Hypoblast .
La. Interamniotie space .
m. Mesoblast .
N.a. Neur-amniotic cavity .
p.p. Placental pole of blastodermic vesicle .
VII .
" On the Electric Discharge with the Chloride of Silver Battery .
" By Warren De La Rue , M.A. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , and Hugo Muller , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received December 21 , 1882 .
In anticipation of a paper to he shortly communicated to the Society , we wish to state that we have found that the pressure of least resistance for a given gas is not a constant , but that it varies with the diameter , shape , and dimensions of the vessel employed .
Moreover , that the dark space near the negative in electric discharges in vacuum tubes is dark only by comparison ; for we have obtained a photographic image of the dark discharge in a tube in which the strata remained steady during forty-five minutes .
The time of exposure was fifteen and thirty-five minutes ; a comparison of the latter result with a photograph obtained of the strata in two and a half seconds shows that the dark space is 840 times less bright than a stratum .
Lastly , a tube with palladium terminals , which we made several years ago , containing hydrogen gas , shows in a remarkable manner the power of terminals to occlude gas and to give it off again .
On passing an electric discharge through this tube for a few seconds , it becomes blackened , especially near the negative , by the deposit of a mirror-like film ; on leaving the tube for few days ' rest , this mirror disappears entirely , and is reproduced by passing a fresh current .
It is most probably a volatile hydrogen alloy of palladium .
The effects described have been reproduced very many times during eight years .
The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 11th , 1883 .
2 a VOL. xxxiv .

