1876 .
] On the Residual Charge of the Leyden Jar .
407 Transposing , squaring , and adding , and putting for the radius of curvature , we obtain C2B2 sin2 i=r2 : p2 , or p\#151 ; r : CE sin i , which is constant .
The curve is therefore a helix .
Also the radius of curvature of the projection of the curve on a plane perpendicular to the axis will be p sin3 i , viz.=r sin i : CR .
" The value of r depends doubtless on the nature and pressure of the gas , and perhaps also on the current ; but it must be the same for equal values of C of opposite signs .
Hence the handedness of the helix will be reversed by reversing either the current or the magnetic polarity .
If the left-hand magnetic pole be north ( .
e. austral , or north-pointing ) , and the left-hand terminal positive , the helix will be right-handed .
" The general nature of the phenomenon may therefore now be described as follows:\#151 ; " First , we have the bright spark of no sensible duration which strikes nearly in a straight line between the terminals .
This opens a path for a continuous discharge , which being nearly in a condition of equilibrium , though an unstable one , remains a short time without much change of place .
Then it moves rapidly to its position of equilibrium , the surface which is its locus forming the sheet .
Then it remains iu its position of equilibrium during the greater part of the discharge , approaching the axis again as the discharge falls , so that its equilibrium position is not so far from the axis .
Thus we see two bright curves corresponding to the two positions of approximate rest united by a less bright sheet , the first curve being nearly a straight line , and the second nearly a helix traced on a cylinder of which the former line is a generating line .
" It was noticed that the sheet projected a little beyond the helix .
This may be explained by considering that at first the discharge is more powerful than can be maintained , so that the curve reaches a little beyond the distance that can be maintained .
" The appearance of the .
discharge when viewed in a revolving mirror ( except the projection beyond the sheet , the illumination of which was too feeble to be observed ) confirmed the above remarks .
II .
u The Besidual Charge of the Leyden Jar .
" By J. Hopkinson , M.A. , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. ( Abstract .
) 1 .
If it be assumed that a dielectric under electric induction has every element of volume of its substance in an electropolar state , and also that dielectrics have a property analogous to coercive force in magnetism whereby time is requisite for the development or decay of this electro-polar state , an explanation of the residual charge of the Leyden jar 408 On the Residual Charge of the Leyden Jar .
[ Mar. 30 , easily follows .
Adding the hypothesis , which at first sight appears most probable to connect the induction and polarization with the time by two differential equations , it follows that the potential E of a Leyden jar when insulated may he expressed in the form E=(A + Be\#151 ; e\#151 ; H where X and y are constants for the material , and A and B depend on the previous states of the dielectric .
2 .
Observations made with the quadrant electrometer , the condenser being a Florence flask containing sulphuric acid , show that E cannot be so expressed .
Glass is a mixture of different silicates , and it may be supposed that each substance is capable of independently being electro-polar ; there will thus be E and more than one polarity to be connected with the time by more than two differential equations .
Making a similar obvious hypothesis regarding these relations , E must be expressed in the form 2 Are e If this be so , it would probably be possible to 0 charge a Leyden jar in such a way that the sign of the return charge after discharge and insulation should change once or more . .
3 .
This anticipation was verified by charging the flask alternately positively and negatively for successively decreasing periods .
The author learned after making this verification that Sir William Thomson had tried similar experiments before , but had never formally published them .
4 .
The analogy between coercive force in magnetism and the electro-coercive force suggested that , as mechanical agitation shakes out the magnetism from a magnet , so it might shake down the electropolar state of a dielectric and unmask residual charge more rapidly than is the case in quiescence .
This was found to be the case ; a residual charge manifests itself in the flask more rapidly when the flask is tapped than when it i 's quiet .
It was also found that that portion of the return charge which comes out last is more accelerated by vibration than that which comes out first , and that , after tapping , the flask was less susceptible to the effect of tapping than it was before it was touched .
5 .
Experiment shows that , after a return charge has attained a maximum and is decreasing by conduction through the glass , the loss per cent , per unit of time does not continuously increase from zero at the point of maximum potential but may presently decrease .
6 .
Sir William Thomson explained specific inductive capacity by supposing every part of the dielectric to be electropolar under induction ; by introducing time into that explanation , it is made to cover both specific inductive capacity and that on which residual charge depends as respectively rapid and slow cases of similar phenomena .

