310 Miss F. M. Durham .
On Presence of [ Jfov .
10 " On the Presence of Tyrosinases in the Skins of some Pigmented ; Vertebrates.\#151 ; Preliminary Note .
" By Florence M. Durham Communicated by W. Bateson , F.R.S. Received November 10 , \#151 ; Read December 1 , 1904 .
( From the Balfour Laboratory , Cambridge .
) In the course of an investigation of the " heredity of coat-colour in mice , " the necessity for further knowledge , concerning the formation of pigment , became evident .
In the hairs of these animals , there are apparently three pigments ( probably different forms of melanins ) , yellow , chocolate , and black .
The characteristic colour of each mouse is due to the presence of one or more of these pigments .
Thus , the yellow or " fawn " mouse has only yellow pigment in its hairs , the chocolate mouse has only the chocolate pigment , a black mouse has both chocolate and black pigments , while the house mouse or " agouti " mouse has all three pigments in its hairs ( 1 ) .
The differences in the nature of these pigments have not been worked out as .
yet .
Much work , however , has been done upon the origin of melanins and on their relationships to the aromatic decomposition products of proteids .
In 1901 , v. Fiirth and Schneider ( 2 ) showed that a tyrosinase could be obtained from the blood of certain insects .
This tyrosinase acted upon a chromogen present in the blood , and converted it into a melanin-like substance .
When a solution of tyrosin in water was treated with the ferment , a melanin-like body was also obtained .
According to the observations of Przibram ( which are published with those of v. Ftirth and Schneider ) , a tyrosinase can be extracted from the ink-sac of Sepia officinalis .
This ferment , acting in a like manner upon a watery solution of tyrosin , yields a black pigment , probably a melanin .
Ducceschi ( 3 ) has shown that a similar ferment can be obtained from the blood of Bornbyx m Arguing from these facts , Cudnot ( 4 ) , in a paper on the " Heredity of Coat-Colour in Mice , " suggests that the formation of pigment in these animals is due to the presence , either of different chromogens and one ferment , or of two different ferments and one chromogen .
The results of the action of the ferment on the chromogen would be to produce the characteristic colour of the mouse .
The alteration of colour would be due either to the presence of a different chromogen , or * to the presence of a different ferment .
It seemed worth while , therefore , to determine whether a ferment j could be extracted from animals , which , like the mouse , are deeply : pigmented in their coats ; and to test whether , if such a ferment could \#187 ; 1904 .
] Tyrosinases in the Skins of Pigmented Vertebrates .
311 I |)e obtained front the sk|us of these animals , pigmented substances torresponding in colour to those of the animals taken , could be formed |\gt ; y the action of the ferment upon tyrosin or allied bodies .
I chose , for this purpose , the skins of young or foetal animals , because these are in a condition of active pigment-formation .
The study of adult forms shows that the older animals moult gradually , and that they would , therefore , in all probability , yield less material .
As young mice are very small , I preferred to use new-born rabbits and rats ( of black or agouti origin ) and foetal guinea-pigs ( about 8 weeks ) .
In the case of the guinea-pigs , the skins of the mothers were also used for comparison .
The skins , having been removed from the animals , were chopped in a sausage-machine , and ground in an agate mortar with kieselguhr and distilled water .
The use of this mortar was kindly permitted to me by Professor Sims Woodhead .
The ground-up skins were then pressed out as completely as possible .
The expressed juice was red , and opaque in appearance .
A portion of it was placed in a test-tube with solid tyrosin , and a milligram of ferrous sulphate was added as an activator .
Toluol was then added as an antiseptic , and the tube was closed with cotton-wool , and placed in an incubator at 37 ' C. For comparison , a series of tubes were prepared , in order to control the experiment .
In the first tube boiled juice was placed , to which tyrosin and ferrous sulphate were added .
In the second tube juice only was placed .
The third tube contained juice , to which tyrosin was added .
The fourth tube contained the juice , with a milligram of ferrous sulphate .
The fifth tube contained no juice , but tyrosin in distilled water , with ferrous sulphate .
These tubes were all placed in the incubator .
A similar series of tubes was also prepared , and kept at the ordinary temperature of the laboratory .
A tube containing juice , tyrosin , and ferrous sulphate was also prepared , and kept at the laboratory temperature .
In every case , toluol was used as an antiseptic .
Cottonwool was used to close the tubes , on account of the action .
of iron upon cork , which might introduce an error into the result .
In 24 hours , the contents of the tube , which was incubated , containing the juice , tyrosin , and ferrous sulphate showed a change in appearance .
The fluid had darkened and a black substance was deposited ; the amount of this substance increased as time went on .
In no case did any of the other tubes arranged to control the experiment show any such change .
In one case , when considerable juice had been obtained from a number of young black rabbits , about 2 days old , a certain quantity of the juice was kept , in order to test the effect of time upon it .
After it had been tested , it was kept standing for two days and fresh tubes 312 Miss F. M. Durham .
On the Presence of [ Nov. 10 were prepared from it .
The blackening and formation of black substaneai occurred as before , but 48 hours in the incubator were required before the action commenced .
The same juice was found to have lost its I activity when kept for a week .
Experiments were then made with extracts of skins , which had been kept in alcohol ( 95 per cent. ) .
The skins were chopped and ground with kieselguhr and distilled water , and pressed out as before .
The resulting extract was colourless and cloudy in appearance .
When 1 treated with tyrosin and ferrous sulphate , and incubated , the same results were obtained , viz. , darkening of the fluid and the formation j of a black deposit .
The time of action was delayed , so that about 10 days were necessary for the change of colour to appear .
I also tried the skins of black unhatched chickens , which had been kept in 95 per cent , alcohol , and obtained like results from them .
The extract from the skins of the chickens was clear and colourless .
After the darkening had commenced , I filtered the solution and added more tyrosin , and in this way , I was able to get a further deposit of black substance .
Solutions were prepared in another way .
Juice , which had been obtained from the skins of fresh animals was saturated with ammonium sulphate .
The resulting precipitate was filtered off , and was then washed with a solution of saturated ammonium sulphate , dissolved in distilled water and re-precipitated by saturation with ammonium sulphate .
On re-dissolving this precipitate in distilled water , a certain portion of it was found , to be insoluble .
This was filtered off and the filtrate was dialysed against distilled water .
When free from sulphate ( as shown by testing with lead acetate solution ) , the clear , colourless fluid was treated with tyrosin and ferrous sulphate and incubated .
As before , pigment was formed , and as in the case of the skins preserved in alcohol , the action was delayed .
About 10 days were required .
Amongst other animals tested in this way , I used self-coloured " red " guinea-pigs .
I used the foetal young and also the mother for comparison .
The hair of this kind of guinea-pig contains only one pigment , deep yellow or orange in colour .
In the case of the young guinea-pigs , the solution became yellow and an orange-coloured deposit was formed .
I filtered this off , and on the addition of more tyrosin , a fresh orange deposit was obtained .
The extract made from the skin of the mother also changed in colour and yielded a yellow deposit , but less in amount than in the ease of the young animals .
Hitherto , material from white or albino animals has yielded no results , but the animals obtained were too few for final conclusions to be formed in regard to them .
Up to the present , only minute quantities \#169 ; f the coloured substances have been obtained , insufficient for complete analysis .
They resemble melanins in being soluble in alkalis and 1904 .
] Tyrosinases in the Skins of Pigmented Vertebrates .
313 Insoluble in mineral acids .
JFjirther experiments are in progression a larger scale , to endeavour to produce enough for a thorough analysis .
Summary .
I An extract can be made from the skins of certain pigmented animals ( rabbits , rats , guinea-pigs and chickens ) , which will act upon jtyrosin and produce a pigmented substance .
This action suggests the presence of a tyrosinase in the skins of these animals , j The action of the tyrosinase is destroyed by boiling , does not take place in the cold , is delayed by time , requires a temperature of about 37 ' C. , and also the presence of an activating substance such as ferrous sulphate to start it .
j The coloured substances produced are in accordance with the colour jjof the animals used .
Black substances are obtained , when animals with black pigment in their skins are used , and yellow substance , when the skin contains the orange pigment .
The coloured substances are soluble in alkalis , but insoluble in acids .
In conclusion , I take this opportunity to express my gratitude to Ur .
Hopkins , to whom I am indebted for help and advice in the foregoing experiments .
LITERATURE .
( 1 ) Bateson .
' Proceedings of the Zoological Society , ' 1903 .
( 2 ) v. Eurth u. Schneider .
' Beitr .
z. Chem. , Phys. , u. Path .
, ' Bd .
1 .
( *0 Duccesehi .
* Rendiconti della R. Accad .
dei Lincei , ' vol. 2 .
* Archivio di Fisiologia/ vol. 1 .
if .
( 4\gt ; ) Cuenot .
' Arch. d. Zool. Exp6r\#187 ; et Q-en .
, Notes et Revue , ' vol. i.

