A Brief Narrative of the Shot of Dr. Robert Fielding with a Musket-Bullet , and its strange manner of coming out of his Head , where it had lam near Thirty Years .
Written by Himself .
AT the first Newberry Fight , in the Time of the late Civil Wars , the Doctor was shot by the Right Eye on the Os Petrosum , by the Orbit of the Eye to the Skull , which was likewise broke , with great Effusion of Blood from the Wound Mouth and Nostrils .
The Surgeon carefully probing the Wound for the discovery of the Bullet , but failing of his intention , on the third day after the Shot , placed him Horizontal to the Sun ; by which means depressing the broken Skull with the Probe , he could see the Palpitation of the Brain , but could not discover the Bullet .
When the Doctor began to grow cold , his Mouth closed up , and so continued for the space of half a Year , till many Fractures of Bones were come out of the Wound , Mouth and Nostrils ; and afterwards whenever a Scale of Bone was to come out , his Mouth would close , insomuch that several Years after he Prognosticated to some Friends , that a Bone was then coming out , which continued so for 6 or 7 Weeks ; at which time finding an itching in the Orifice of the Wound , with his Finger he felt a Bone , upon which he made known to some Friends then present , that they should see him open his Mouth , and taking out a Bone no bigger than a Pins Head , he immediately opened his Mouth .
At the second Newberry Fight it healed up , no Art could keep it open .
After this , for the space of Ten Years , or more , a Flux of Sanious Matter issued out of the right Nostril , and then ceasing there , it flowed from the lest Nostril for some Years : At length , for the space of two Years or thereabouts , upon riding , the Doctor would sometimes find a pain on the left side about the Almonds of the Ear , which he attributed to Cold , but more especially after riding in a cold dark Night , which occasioned a kind of Deafness too ; and having stopped his Ear with Wool to recover his Hearing , one Day , either Writing or Reading , suddenly an Huff came in the Ear , which made him start , and the manner not to be expressed , unless you can imagine a Vacuum ; this happened about March or April 70 .
Upon this all that side of the Cheek hung loose as tho ' Paralytick , and under the Ear might be felt a hard Knob .
After this , Tumour upon Tumour appeared on that side under the Jaw-Bone , which occasion d his consulting some Physicians , two at one time , one of which suspected the Bullet , which , considering the Shot , they thought not credible .
At length the Tumours coming to the Throat , if he held up his Head a little , it seemed as if one with a Hook did pull down the Jaw-bone , and if any thing touched the Throat , it was as painful as if pricked with a handful of Needles ; being at last persuaded to make some Applications , a small hole appeared , ed , after that another , and a third near the Pomum Adami ; by these the Bullet was discovered , and cut out in August 1672 .

