374 Messrs. W. E. Dunstan and T. A. Henry .
oblique annulus , and by the small output of bilateral spores .
The sporangia of the same sorus are not developed simultaneously .
Anatomy.\#151 ; The horizontal creeping rhizome , which is .thickly covered with stiff ramental scales , contains a tubular steal limited both internally and externally by a definite endodermis .
The xylem is mesarch in structure ; the protoxylem groups of spiral tracheids occur in association with a few parenchymatous cells at regular intervals in a median position .
At the point of origin of each leaf the tubular steal opens , and becomes U-shaped in section , the detached portion passes into the petiole as a horseshoe-shaped meristele of endarch structure .
The meristele alters its form a short distance below the origin of the lamina , and becomes constricted into two slightly unequal portions ; from the lower end of one of these a small vascular strand is gradually detached , and at a higher level a similar strand passes off from the other half of the steal .
During their passage into the main ribs of the lamina the vascular strands , which are at first simply curved , become annular , and assume the form characteristic of Marsilia .
The slender and branched roots are traversed by a triarch steal .
Geological History.\#151 ; The genus Dipteris represents a type which had descended from the Mesozoic ' period with but little modification .
The genera Didyophyllum and Protorhipis are regarded as members of the Dipteridinse , which were widely distributed in Europe during the Eh\#171 ; etic and Jurassic periods .
Eecords of these fossil forms have been obtained from England , Germany , France , Belgium , Austria , Switzerland , Bornholm , Greenland , and Poland j also from North America , Persia , and the Far East .
The genus Matonia , especially M. ( K. Br .
) , possesses certain features in common with Dipteris , and this resemblance extends to the fossil types of the Matoninese and Dipteri-dinse .
Matonia pedinata and Dipteris conjugata , growing side by side on the slopes of Mount Ophir in the Malay Peninsula , survive as remnants from a bygone age when closely allied ferns played a prominent part in the vegetation of northern regions .
" The Nature and Origin of the Poison of Lotus arabicnsP By Wyndham E. Dunstan , M.A. , F.E.S. , Director of the Scientific and Technical Department of the Imperial Institute , and T. A. Henry , B.Sc. , Salters ' Company 's Eesearch Fellow in the Laboratories of the Imperial Institute .
Deceived May 30 , \#151 ; Eead June 20,1901 .
( Abstract .
) The authors have already given a preliminary account* of this investigation and have shown that the poisonous property of this # ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' yoI .
67 , p. 224 , 1900 .
The Nature and Origin of the Poison of Lotus arabicus .
375 Egyptian vetch is due to the prussic acid which is formed when the plant is crushed with water , owing to the hydrolytic action of an enzyme , lotase , -on a glucoside , lotusin , which is broken up into hydrocyanic acid , dextrose , and lotoflavin , a yellow colouring matter .
The authors have continued the investigation with the object of ascertaining the properties and chemical constitution of lotoflavin and of lotusin , and also of studying the properties of lotase in relation to those of other hydrolytic enzymes .
Lotusin .
Lotusin can be separated from an alcoholic extract of the plant by a tedious process giving a very small yield , about 0025 per cent. Lotusin is a yellow crystalline glucoside , more soluble in alcohol than in water .
When heated it gradually decomposes without exhibiting any fixed melting point .
Combustions of specially purified material gave numbers agreeing with those deduced from the formula c28h31no16 .
In the preliminary notice the formula C22H19NO10 was provisionally assigned to lotusin on the assumption that one molecule of dextrose is formed by its hydrolysis .
The formula given above , as the result of ultimate analysis , is confirmed by the observation that two molecules of dextrose are produced by acid hydrolysis , which is therefore represented by the equation\#151 ; C28H3iN016 + 2H20 = 2C8H1206 + HCN + C15H10O6 .
Lotusin .
Dextrose .
Prussic Lotoflavin .
acid .
When a solution of lotusin is warmed with dilute hydrochloric acid , hydrolysis readily occurs .
The liquid acquires a strong odour of hydrocyanic acid and a yellow crystalline precipitate of lotoflavin is thrown down , whilst the solution strongly reduces Fehling 's solution .
Dilute sulphuric acid only very slowly effects the hydrolysis of lotusin .
When warmed with aqueous alkalis , lotusin is gradually decomposed , ammonia being evolved and an acid formed to which the name acid has been given .
C28H3i016 + 2H20 = C28H3201s + NH3 .
Lotusinic acid is a monobasic acid furnishing yellow crystalline salts .
It is readily hydrolysed by dilute acids forming lotoflavin , dextrose and heptogluconic acid ( dextrose-carboxylic acid ) : C28H32018 + 2H20 = C15H10O0 + CoHi2Oo + CrHijOs .
Lotusinic Lotoflayin .
Dextrose .
Hej)togluconic acid .
acid .
VOL. LXVIII .
2 D Messrs. W. E. Dunstan and T. A. Henry .
With the exception of amygdalin , lotusin is the only glucoside definitely known which furnishes prussic acid as a decomposition product .
Lotoflavin .
Lotoflavin is a yellow crystalline colouring matter readily dissolved by alcohol or by hot glacial acetic acid , and also by aqueous alkalis forming bright yellow solutions .
It is always present to some extent in the plants , especially in old plants .
Ultimate analysis leads to the formula C15H10O6 .
It is therefore isomeric with luteolin , the yellow colouring matter of Reseda luteola , and with fisetin , the yellow colouring from young fustic , Rhus cotinus .
Morin , from Morus tindoria , appears to be hydroxylotoflavin .
Lotoflavin does not form compounds with mineral acids .
It furnishes a tetracetyl derivative and two isomeric mutually convertible trimethyl ethers which are capable of forming one and the same acetyl-trimethyl-lotoflavin .
By the action of fused potash lotoflavin is converted into phloroglucin and / 3-resorcylic acid .
Dextrose .
The sugar resulting from hydrolysis has been found to correspond in all properties with ordinary dextrose .
Hydrocyanic acid .
The amount of prussic acid given by plants at different stages of growth has been ascertained .
Mature plants bearing seed-pods have furnished 0*345 per cent , of this acid , calculated on the air-dried material which corresponds with 5*23 per cent , of lotusin .
Younger plants bearing flower buds gave 0*25 iper cent. , whilst still smaller quantities were furnished by , very young plants and hardly any by quite old plants from which the seeds had fallen .
The formation of the poison , therefore , seems to reach its maximum at about the seeding period , and after this period to diminish rapidly .
The Arabs are aware that the plant is safe to use as a fodder when the seeds are quite ripe , but not before .
We have found that it is the lotusin which disappears during the ripening of the seeds .
Old plants contain some lotase and lotoflavin , but little or no lotusin .
Lotase .
In its general properties lotase resembles other hydrolytic enzymes , from which , however , it differs in several important respects .
It may be compared with emulsin , the enzyme of bitter almonds .
Emulsin , however , only attacks lotusin very slowly , whilst lotase has but a feeble The Nature and Origin of the Poison of Lotus arabicus .
377 action on amygdalin , the glucoside of bitter almonds .
Lotase is much more readily injured and deprived of its hydrolytic power than emulsin .
On this account it is difficult to isolate in the solid state .
Its power is not only rapidly abolished by heat , but is also gradually destroyed by contact with alcohol or glycerine .
Besides lotase , the plant contains an amylolytic and a proteolytic enzyme .
Constitution of Lotqflavin and Lotusin .
Having regard to its reactions and especially to the production , by the action of fused alkali , of / 3-resorcylic acid and phloroglucin , the authors conclude that lotoflavin should be represented by the formula : O OH ^oh OH CO which is that of a compound belonging to the same class , of phenylated pheno-y-pyrones , as its isomerides luteolin and fisetin .
The peculiarity shown by lotoflavin of containing four hydroxyl groups , but furnishing only a dimethyl ether , is accounted for by one of the hydroxyl groups being in the ortho position to a carbonyl group .
The reactions of lotusin are best represented by the formula : O OH CuH21O10\#151 ; CH\#151 ; 'S OH 6n | N\#151 ; x \/ \/ OH CO which is that of a lotoflavin ether of maltose-cyanhydrin .
This formula satisfactorily accounts for the partial hydrolysis of the glucoside by alkalis giving lotusinic acid and ammonia , and for the decomposition of the substance by acids giving lotoflavin and maltose-carboxylic acid which is immediately decomposed into dextrose and heptogluconic acid .
It also accounts for the hydrolysis of lotusin , by acids , into lotoflavin and maltose , which is further changed to dextrose .
In order to definitely localise the position of the cyanogen group in lotusin , the behaviour of several cyanhydrins of known constitution have been examined with reference to the question as to whether they would furnish hydrocyanic acid when acted on by dilute hydrochloric acid .
It was found that mandelic nitrile , lsevulose cyanhydrin and pentacetyl gluconitrile , in which the cyanogen group is known to occupy a position similar to that assumed for it in the formula sug Prof. J. T. Cash and Mr. W. R. Dunstan .
gested for lotusin , are , like lotusin , easily decomposed by dilute hydrochloric acid , forming prussic acid and the corresponding aldehyde or ketone .
The authors wish again to express their obligations to Mr. Ernest A. Floyer , of Cairo , Member of the Egyptian Institute , who has spared neither trouble nor expense in collecting in Egypt , and despatching to this country , the material required for this investigation .
" The Pharmacology of Pseudaconitine and Japaconitine considered in relation to that of Aconitine .
" By J. Theodore Cash , M.D. , F.R.S. , Regius Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Aberdeen , and Wyndham R. Dunstan , M.A. , F.R.S. , Director of the Scientific Department of the Imperial Institute .
Received June 11\#151 ; Read June 20 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous paper on the Pharmacology of Aconitine and some of its principal derivatives* we have given an account of the physiological action of this , the highly toxic alkaloid of Monkshood Napellus ) , and of its principal derivatives , and we have also discussed the ascertained physiological effects of these substances in relation to their chemical constitution .
The results of this investigation have proved to be of much practical importance in connection with the pharmaceutical and medical employment of aconite , especially m demonstrating the partial antagonism to aconitine of benzacomne , and in a greater degree of aconine , both of which derivatives accompany the parent alkaloid in the plant and in the pharmaceutical preparations made from it , which have been hitherto used medicinally .
Although it seems likely that these separate alkaloids , and especially aconine , may be useful as therapeutic agents , it is now clear that for the purpose for which aconite is employed , the pure alkaloid , aconitine , should be usee in the place of the indefinite mixture of physiologically antagonistic alkaloids contained in pharmaceutical preparations made from the P In a series of papers communicated to the Chemical Society , and published in the 'Journal of the Chemical Society ' ( 1891-99 ) , one o us , in conjunction with his pupils , has described the chemical properties of the toxic alkaloid contained in two other species of alkaloid , viz. , Aconitum feroxor Indian or Nepaul Aconite , and Aconitum Fischen Japanese Aconite .
The medicinal employment of these potent cn0 * ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , 1898 , toI .
190 , p. 239 .

