The Chemical Touch-Stone of Mr John Kuncle , Gentleman of the Bed-Chamber to the Elector of Brandenburg , De Acido , &amp; Urinoso Sale Calido &amp; Frigido , contra Doctor : Voights spirit : Vini vindicatum .
Submitted to the Royal Society of London &amp; c , as to the high Judges of this matter .
Berlin the 6th .
of July 1684 .
THis book , having been sent the R. S. by the favour of that most Potent Prince , and great incourager of Learning , the Elector of Brandenburg , may for that reason , deserve a large account to be given of it , as also for the merit of the persons therein concerned , who dispute , like Philosophers , with Experiments in their hands ; partly also because the book is written in High Dutch , a language which few of us understand sufficiently .
The Author begins with an Epistle Dedicatory to the Royal Society ; appealing to them , as to impartial judges : he says , that in his book , he offers at the nature of heat , and cold ; in which , or any other thing , in case he has committed errors , he shall be made very happy , to receive better Instructions .
In the next place , he makes an Epistle to the Reader , which is only an Apology , against some calumnies thrown upon him .
After this , follows a short Epistle of Mr. Kunkels Antagonist Dr. Voight to Dr. Martin Weisen , which is a short address made to him , as judge of the controversy .
Mr. Kunkel begins to lay down , his Opponents Depositions ; which are three .
1 .
That there is no Acid under the Sun , that of it self gives either heat or flame : for he says , that there is no Acid , of either the Vegetable , mineral , or Animal Kingdom , which affords it .
He instances in the Acidum Ventriculi , &amp; succi Pancreatici , whereas on the contrary , the Gall , which contains no Acid , but affords Oil , gives also flame , and heat .
2 .
He endeavours to prove spirit of Wine , to be an Oil .
3 .
He obviates some Objections .
Mr. Kunkel in answer to the first Proposition ; says , he never declared it his opinion , that any body should produce heat , without the Accession of a Frigidum : ( which in other places he calls Urinosum , ) as also , that spirit of Wine was a pure Acid ; but a spiritus duplicatus : but that there is more Acid in it , then of the frigidum , he is sure , cannot be denied .
He agrees with his Opponent , that no pure Acidumis inflammable , but that Urinosum and terra must be added .
He denies that there is a pure Acidum in the World : for he says , where there is such a pure Acidum , there must be a pure salt ; but there is no such thing in the Animal , or Vegetable World .
He examines 18 Ounces of the Gall of an Ox , from which he obtains 16 Ounces of clear water by Distillation , of a stinking Oil , and half an ounce of a salt Earth , in which he says there is a Sal Acidum : so that he would ascribe Inflammability to belong rather to the Acidum then Oleosum .
He examines blood also , from whence his Antagonist may argue , namely that the Oil in the blood , gives the natural heat to the body ; but he will ascribe more to the salt : for he says , that in case blood be gently evaporated ad siccitatem , and then exposed to the Air , a certain salt , of a Nitrous Nature , will grow upon it : by this you may see the salt to predominate , in case you edulcorate this dried blood by frequent ablutions with water , and then distill the mentioned exsiccatK 2 ed ed Mass , you shall have much less Oil : from whence we may learn , that Oils are the most subtle parts of bodies ; and may also conclude , that nothing is to be found without salt ; or that bodies are set together , and compounded with salt .
He seems to deny , that Salia Acida ( such as his Antagonist calls Succus Citri , Berberum , spiritus Nitri , ) are cooling , or do so well perform any Cures , as Salia Urinosa .
He examines the Succus Citri , and Berberis , by distillation , the latter of which , he says , affords only a quantity of water , some oil , and some earth , mixed with a salt he calls Alkali ; which makes him demand , what is become of his Acidum .
Mr. Kunkel proceeds , and gives a further account of Dr. Voights opposite sentence ; who instances in his common distillation of Wine , namely , that after the spirit of Wine Per Balneum Mariae is separated from the Wine , that which remains in the Vessel , becomes sower , and will not burn , tho ' perhaps somewhat of a subjugated oil , may be mixed with it : but in case you separate any oil from the Acid , it then burns per se .
Mr. Kunkel in the beginning of his answer , seems to run out against the Doctors opinion , mentioned in another chapter ; and endeavouring to prove spiritus Vini to be no oil ; because oil will not intoxicate a man ; and because Acids , tho ' of differing families , do all unite and mix , and so do oils too , but if you mix that oil drawn from Wine , with the spirit of Wine , it will not by shaking unite together , unless you first satiate the spirit with its salt , and by that means you may cause a union of some little quantity .
He now comes to overthrow the Doctors assertion , that Acids do not burn : he instances in oil of Vitriol , as one of the purest Acids , which produces great heat , which destroys and shatters many things .
Judge of the contrary by the greatest cold .
Take spirit of Wine highly rectified , pour the coldest water upon as much , as you can hold in your hand , and it will grow pretty warm .
Whence it undoubtedly follows , that it agrees with oil of Vitriol in point of Acidum .
He concludes , charging his adversary that he says , Vegetables yield no Acidum ; but gives an experiment to prove the contrary .
viz. that the Sal Alkali , and Sal Urinosum of Plants , by a well proportioned quantity , may be brought to a Sal Nitrum .
Item ex sale Tartari , or Absinthii by a mere addition of sand , a Spiritus Salis may be distilled .
Dr. Voight Mr. Kunkels opponent , proceeds to the Regnum Minerale and absolutely denys any heat , flame , or light , to be properly inherent in any Acid , but that some central oils not easily separated from mineral Acids , do produce those incalescent effects .
He instances in Oleum Vitrioli , &amp; Tartari per Deliquium : as also in Spritus Nitri &amp; Vitrioli , which derive much heat by mixture , from a latent oil , and not from the apparent external Acidum .
He gives an experiment , how , Oleum Sulphuris may be made inflammable , viz. by distilling a high tincture of Oleum Terebinthinae made with common brimstone , for you may by distillation recover your Oleum Terebinthinae , and leave in the bottom of the Retort , an inflammable oil of Sulphur .
Rain water , he says , affords oil , and volatile salt , but no inflammable Acid .
He says all Acida tho ' never so pure , if evaporated or distilled off , will always leave in the bottom of the Retort , or other Vessel a Materia pinguis &amp; unctuosa , out of which an inflammable oil may be brought .
He concludes saying , that it suffices to prove , that Acidity does in no wise dispose a body to inflammability , because Olea expressa &amp; distillata do burn and flame more readily , when they are purged of all mixture of Acidity : as Oleum Lini , Terebinthinae , Anisi , Faeniculi , when distilled per Cineres , and other Alcalia that detain the Acida .
Mr , Kunkel in his answer denys , that in these MineK 3 ral ral Acids , particularly oil of Vitriol , any oil is contained ; he challenges him to give Demonstration .
He demands further , since he declares all heat to depend on bodies , upon the score of their being oily , that he will show him an experiment , how to produce heat , with the mixture of any oil and water ; as Mr. Kunkel has often done with Acids and water .
Mr. Kunkel refutes at large , his experiment about the oil of Sulphur ; urging that he did not perform his operation truly , but left his oil of Turpentine at the bottom of the Retort , which is mistaken for the oil of Sulphur , as he may easily discover by drawing off more of the remaining oil , by which means , he leaves a kind of black Earth , and such as gives no oil , and may have his former weight of Sulphur again .
The adversary Dr. Voight , proceeds to lay down several Positions .
1 .
That oil of Vitriol is the most fixed Acid , and gives more heat , then spirit of Wine whilst flaming .
2 .
That fixed bodies are only respectively so .
3 .
That Acids , may by repeated distillations , be brought to such a degree of subtlety ( I suppose he means volatility , ) as spirit of Wine .
4 .
Any surmise about an Acidum Occultum signifiesnothing , for even that may be easily parted .
5 .
All Acida are volatile , because they yield a strong scent , which comes from their Volatile salt .
Now since we can find no inflammable Acid in the World , we may properly infer , spirit of Wine to be no Acid , because it burns , and takes fire .
He concludes with a definition of Acidum .
Quod Acidum sit Sal fluore potitum , Vim habens astringendi &amp; coagulandi .
Mr. Kunkel in his answer grants the first Position .
To the second he gives a check , blaming his not distinguishing betwixt the Acida Regni Mineralis &amp; Vegetabilis .
The next Position he denies absolutely .
The fourth Position he answers thus , that any Acidum may be concentrated in a body , and is there stronger , or have its parts extended and diffused , and so weaker , so that magis &amp; minus do much vary the case .
To the last , which says all Acida are Volatilia , because of an odor or sent that rises from them : he denys that all do give an odor , and instances in Oleum Vitrioli , that gives none ; and by consequence no Acida pura afford it , but such as are mixed with an Urinose salt .
He pretends to know a method how to reduce spirit of Wine , to water , by separating its salt , with the help of salt of Tartar .
As also to part the salt from oil of Vitriol , and bring it to water : but none of these salts are reducible to oil , tho they may be made to heat and burn .
In the end he seems to dislike his definition of an Acidum : because he says he does not distinguish betwixt Acida pura &amp; mixta , such as succus Berberum &amp; Oleum Vitrioli .
Dr. Voight goes on to prove from his definition of salt , that spirit of Wine is no Acidum , namely because it has no Vim attenuandi &amp; resolvendi ; he means properly and in its own nature , which consists in its inflammability , so that Spiritus Vini , when it acts the part of a Menstruum to dissolve bodies , does it upon the account of some Salia Volatilia , that are mixed with it : for the more you impregnate it with salt , the stronger Menstruum you shall have .
Item if you separate the inherent salt in oil of Turpentine , you will destroy its power of working upon Rosins , so as to dissolve them .
Hence he infers , Non dantur Menstrua Sulphurea Oleosa .
2 .
He says Spiritus Vini is so far from agreeing with his definition of Acids , in having Vim coagulandi , that it rather hinders it .
e. g. Acids coagulate Milk : spirit of Wine keeps it in a body together , and hinders thatCoagulation .
3 .
Spirit of Wine corrects Acida , by dulcifying spirit of salt and Nitre , when mixed with them ; which are great Corroders of themselves .
4 .
Spirit 4 .
Spirit of Wine keeps bodies from degenerating into Acids , thus it perserves Beer from souring .
Item it hinders the fermentation of Vinum Mustum , and the working of Beers .
5 .
Acida give a red tincture to syrup of Violets , spirit of Wine dos not change it .
Thus sar Dr. Voight .
To the first proposition Mr. Kunkel replies , that since Spiritus Vini , according to his Concession , abounds with salt , and is upon that score a Menstruum , and can be sooner reduced to salt then oil , that for his own reasons , it may better derive its properties from salt , then from his imaginary oil .
He gives us an experiment viz. That Spiritus Vini dissolves the Crystals of Silver which it could not do , he says , unless it consisted of an Acidum &amp; Urinosum ; for no Oleosa whatsoever , must pretend to this effect .
He challenges him to separate the salt from the oil of Turpentine , which he thinks cannot be done ; unless you destroy the nature of the oil .
To his second proposition , that Spiritus Vini hinders coagulation , and to his Instance in common Milk , he says the contrary ; viz. That spirit of Wine and Milk in equal proportions , will coagulate as Vinegar and Milk doe .
To the 3d , which is only an instance , that spirit of Wine dulcifies Acids , he denies it to be dulcis , but yet very corrosive , and that it is diluted only as water will yet more effectually take off the pungency of the Acid .
To the 4th , where spirit of Wine preserves bodies from turning to Vinegar , and stum liquors , Mr. Kunkel , says , that this is a plain proof of its being an Acidum ; for the sower vapour of accended Brimstone produces the same effect : only with this difference , that the like Acidum in spirit of Wine is less copious , and for that reason you must use a much greater proportion of spirit .
So that the induction is false , that there is no Acid in spirit of Wine , since Acids do generally , if not always hinder the fermenting of bodies .
To the 5th , he answers , that spirit of Wine digested with Syrup of Violets , will change the colour .
Dr. Voight having thus far been upon the Negative , by declaring what spirit of Wine is not , ; he now asserts it to be an oil , which is ardent or inflammable , by no means upon the score of its Volatile salt , for then salt of urine must burn ; nor upon the account of any Acid , which has been already refuted ; much less upon the account of its water and Earth , for that were absurd : ergo ratione Olei .
He gives an Instance how spirit of Wine may be reduced to a true oil , for as it is a spirit , he says it has only lost the outward form and consistence of oil , being made more fine and subtle , yet notwithstanding , he proposes a way to bring it to oil again .
Take a quantity of high spirit of Wine , put it into a Cucurbit , which is not very well closed , let it stand for 3 months , then endeavour to rectify it in a gentle Balneo , you will find little spirit that will rise , but a good quantity of inflammable oil will remain at the bottom .
Mr. Kunkels answer does principally consist in denying the experiment , of reducing spirit of Wine to oil , by the way and method proposed , or by any other : unless he perhaps first united some oil with his spirit , and then the Air having sublimed the spirit , which was lighter then the oil or water , by this means perhaps , he obtained some little oil .
Dr. Voight examines an Epistle of Mr. Kunkels , sent to him for that purpose .
The first Praesupposition of the Author of the Epistle is , that all Vegetables contain an Acidum &amp; Urinosum .
The 2d .
that all Fermentations produce Acids , which are separable by Art .
In answer to the first , Dr. Voight complains of his having omitted Oleum , which is more certain , and constant in all Vegetables , then Acidum .
For pepper , Ginger , Camphire , Nutmeg , &amp;c. have no Acidum .
Thus we see oil in abundance in Seminibus Lini , Citri , &amp;c. and Flax affords this oil before and after many Variations , into cloath , Paper , &amp;c. which upon burning gives volatile salts andoyls , but no Acids .
Mr. Kunkel will not allow his instances in Pepper , &amp;c. to be just , but on the contrary , that they contain a Sal Volatile &amp; fixum , or an Alcali salt ; In like manner does flax , and Paper , consist of much the same principles .
Dr. Voight goes to the second supposition , of the Author of the Letter , that all Fermentations produce Acids , which are separable by distillation .
This he refutes , as contrary to experience , since mead , and Canary Wines , and even their Berlin Beer it self , will ferment very high , without any Acidity , but rather continue very pleasant , and sweet .
He owns that there are Wines , both French , &amp; Rhenish , that after fermentation , do taste a little sowrish or sharp , but that he says , follows fermentation ex accidenti ratione materiae , for these Wines contain before fermentation , Parts salinas in that quantity , that they exceed the Oleosas .
and so by fermentation , are brought into a fluor , or state of Acidity .
In Spanish or sweet Wines , if you suffer their salts , by a considerable addition of water , or otherwise , to break the Vinculum Unionis , so that they are brought to be sower , this is not properly a Vinum Fermentatum , but corruptum .
However , tho ' this were true in Wine , it will not make it good in spirit of Wine .
Mr. Kunkel replies here , that he has not fairly prosecuted the work of Fermentation , which if he had done , out of all Vegetables , an Acid might be made .
In reference to other Wines , he confesses , they have a sower Ingredient in them , which he can easier produce , then a true oil .
He dislikes his too subtle distinction into Vinum corruptum &amp; Fermentatum , both being sower , and effects of fermentation , may properly be called Acetum or Vinegar .
Dr. Voight proceeds ; in the Epistle , he animadverts upon Mr. Kunkels Notion , viz. That salts by Virtue of their Acidity , do preserve bodies from corruption .
This he says , is against reason and experience : for salts are endowed with a power Solvendi , incidendi , corrodendi , disuniendi dividendi : the most corrosive Menstruums , as Aquafortis , Regis , &amp;c. do justify it .
As also the constitution of Vegetables , and Animals , both which do soon corrupt and dissolve , upon the account of their abounding with this saline principle .
Nay salt it self , cannot resist the moisture of the Air , being soon resolved in it .
He instances yet farther , in the common way of powdering or pickling flesh , declaring against the ill quality of salt , for depriving flesh of its proper and genuine taste , bringing it to an Acorem , and corrupting instead of conserving it ; by making it unfit for nourishment , in producing diseases , &amp;c. After this manner does Vinegar , in stead of conserving a body , deprive it of its good Juice and relish : on the contrary he knows , how to make a Balsam of sugar , which is an oily body , that will easily preserve bodies ; and it is well known , that oy 's of Turpentine , of Myrrh , and spirit of Wine , do best conserve Cadavera .
Moreover , he 's so far from allowing this effect to his Acidum , that he will much rather yield it to his Urinosum .
Mr. Kunkel in his reply , refers himself to the good housewifry , and common custom , and universal experience , which justifies his salt , tho ' an Acid , to be a true preserver of bodies from corruption : he then dislikes his conceit , that flesh abounding with salt , should therefore corrupt ; but on the contrary , being sweet , and wanting salt , does therefore the sooner putrify .
This he proves by an instance , that a whole Ox has very little salt in it ( I suppose he means of fixed salt , ) he thinks a Pickled herring , or powderd beef , very unjustly termed corrupted Fish and Flesh .
He wonders at his choice in preferring Salia Urinosa , for the preservation of bodies , before his Acida ; these destroying the taste , and scent of bodies .
Dr. Voight takes up the Author of the Epistle , for urging an experiment , which he calls , against reason and experience : namely that a pound of rotten Wood , contains more Acidum or Alkali , then five pound of green Wood : he pronounces the quite contrary for truth , proceeding from one degree of Putrefaction , to what he calls a Central Corruption , or rottenness of Wood , where he found , that Wood no ways tainted , afforded the most salt , and that in every degree of greater putrefaction , or the more the Wood inclined to rottenness , the less salt it afforded , until he came to that , which was quite rotten , this afforded none at all .
Mr. Kunkel answers as positively in his own behalf , that he is certain of the contrary , and could make it good .
Dr. Voight complains of the Authors Epistle , that he confounds Salia Alkalia &amp; Acida ~ for they must needs differ in their natures , which make so great an effervescence in their mixture , as Sal Tartari , &amp; Spiritus Vitrioli do .
He demands an experiment how to make an Acidum ex Sale Alkali .
Mr. Kunkel answers , that while these salts are in their gross form ( as he stiles , it ) they are very differing : but in a Book he calls his Annotations , he shows a way how to reduce Alkalia to Acida , &amp; Vice Versa : and that only by depriving one of its Terrestreity , and giving it to the other .
He instances in Sal Ab sinthii , out of which a spirit may be drawn to dissolve Gold .
He animadverts farther upon the Epistle , where he finds this assertion ; [ no body can deny , where you have heat and light , you must needs have two contrarys , namely lie heat and cold , or an Acidum and a Urinosum .
] This the animadvertor says , is contra rationem : for two contrarys , non possunt immediate eundem effectum producere .
He says Acidum &amp; Urinosum may perhaps be external or chance causes of heat , by promoting a sudden motion , and conflict in some bodies , but must not be confounded with the matter , that is inflammable .
Thus water , and oils of Vitriol mixed together , produce a much greater heat , then if you should put into the oil of Vitriol , a quantity of Urinous salt : but it is plain , that in the water there is an Urinosum .
Thus if you pour water upon Calx Viva ( which is an Alkali , and has nothing to do with Acidity , ) you will produce a great heat , yet we want here one of the two Principles of heat , viz. the Acidum .
Mr. Kunkel thinks he has made it clear , that these two Principles were demonstrated very plainly : he to elucidate the matter , gives us some effects of Spiritus Acidi ( as for instance Aquafortis , ) and Urinosi ( as Spiritus U. rinae it self , ) these two in conjunction dissolve Gold , make Aurum Fuiminans , produce heat , flame , and even lightning .
As to the experiment of water , and oil of Vitriol , he answers , that tho ' he should still continue to deny , that water holds no Urinosum , yet he must allow it to be a frigidum , which yet afforded this warming effect .
As to the experiment of Calx Viva , he will not allow it to be without an Acidum .
He would confirm his opinion , by an Instance of the great Phosphorus , ( called in England the solid , ) which he says hath nothing either Oleaginous or Resinous , but holds Salia Acida &amp; Urinosa : and yet performs so many Luminous effects .
Dr. Voight makes further search into the Letter , and observes , that the Author gives the reason , why spirit of Nitre , and spirit of Wine , make so great an Ebullition , but spirit of Wine , and oil of Vitriol none at all : viz. because Nitre is not so pure an Acid as Vitriol , for that reason , they may stand the quieter , and without AlteraL ~ tion tion together .
To this reason the Doctor gives no credit , for he says , spirit of Nitre is as pure as that of Vitriol , and that with spirit of Wine , they doe make an alteration : and the higher they are , the more they heat , but if very highly rectified , they will produce flame upon their mixture .
Mr. Kunkel seems to be in no wise of his judgment , that the mentioned Acid spirits , are of an equal purity ; he thinks , in that of Nitre , there is some thing of an Urinosum ; in the oil of Vitriol , none at all .
As to the experiment of flame , produced by oil of Vitriol , and spirit of Wine , he tells him , that he read it out of an Author , but it never succeeded .
Since spirit of Wine is an oily body , the Author of the Letter , makes a question , how it comes to pass , that it makes no ebullition , and gives no colour to any spirit , except that of Nitre ?
to which Dr. Voight answers , because it causes no more ebullitions , for that reason , it approaches the nature of oils ; for Acidum &amp; Urinosum , does only excite those ebullitions .
He answers further , that it does indeed make ebullitions , both with spirit of Nitre , and of salt , but that it does so , by reason of an Urinous salt , it contains .
To this Mr. Kunkel thinks , he has copiously answered , and therefore supersedes .
In the Epistle , Dr. Voight answers , to this objection , that if spirit of Wine were an Oleosum , why it would not mix with oil : he answers it , by proving the contrary , that if you put into high rectified spirit of Wine , oil of Fennel , or Anniseeds , it will dissolve .
Mr. Kunkel replies , that it retains some few drops of this oil , by reason of that small quantity of Acidum in the spirit ; but if you impregnate it with more salts , it will take up , and dissolve more oil .
Also that it easily parts with this imbibed oil again : but true oils do all equally and thoroughly mix .
The Author of the Letter , having put another Query , about the Causam Ebrietatis , namely , whether it depended on a body , as Oleaginous , or as sweet , Urinous Alkalisate , answers propter Acidum ?
To which , Dr. Voight demands of him to show an Acidum inflammable taken out of spirit of Wine .
He proceeds then himself , to give an account of drunkenness : that Wine affects the Animal spirits , not as an Acidum Volatile , for that does rather fix and coagulate the spirits , then excite them ; that the Salia Coagulata will not operate , when Resoluta they only do perform quick actions ; so that ratione Olei , rather then Salis Acidi Ebriety may be accounted for .
The Author of the Letter , will not allow it to produce drunkenness as an oil : He quite devests oils of that quality , having never heard of any that got fudled by drinking oils : but that oils have been taken into the body , as Preservatives against drunkenness .
Mr. Kunkel concludes with his address to the R. S. excusing himself upon this consideration of the great necessity of knowing the true nature of things : particularly of heat and cold : and that without a true account of the nature of salts , the harvest of Chemistry will be very poor .
He complains of the great mistakes of Chymists , who for want of a thorough examining the parts of bodies , have mightily deceived themselves , and others : and also of the little agreement amongst the Analizers of bodies Chimice , even in matter of fact .
For which reason being resolved to bring things to an exact examen , he says , I began first to work upon salts , and because those of Vegetables were the easiest , I chose them .
I observed that since the Animalia lived on Vegetabilia , that there was an Assimilation in their salts .
In like manner I observed a very great affinity in the nature or constitution of Metals , excepting Gold , which required some extraordinary preparation to deal with it .
This made me at length conclude , clude , that there were two differing natures , both in salt and metals .
This lead me to the consideration of heat , and cold , of the properties of Light , and of the Sun .
But nothing has more taken up my thoughts , and engaged my contemplation , then that of light : of this I may perhaps , some time speak at large .
The nature of water I find to be cold ; and as there is an Universal cold , so there must be an Universal warmth : by virtue of these two , all things are generated ; the Sperm of the Earth it self , is in the water .
There is nothing comes nearer the nature of water , then salt , because that is first generated in it , and does easiest dissolve again there .
I have also found , that because under ground there is a constant degree of heat , therefore those salts that are there generated , do maintain a greater degree of natural heat , then such salts have , which had their Original aboue ground .
Also because I found a remarkable difference in the separation of salts , and in the solution of Metalls , I sought after the purest salt ; which I found to be in Vitriol , or Sulphur , having both the same Minera : but since in this , I found a hot and fiery temper or quality , in some other salt , I expected its contrary .
Having often perceived Salia Volatilia , &amp; Urinosa , to produce degrees of cold , without any Corrosive disposition ; it made me search , and enquire after , an Universal frigidum , which I found in Water : but moreover , as soon as a Salt was generated there , I perceived it also to be warm , or of a mixed Nature , holding both heat and Cold together .
In so much , that I could find no pure Salt , of one simple nature : But discerned , by reason of an ascending heat , and a descending cold , we had always a Praecipitat , which was for the most part , a salt , or the Materia Salis , which first of all seemed to become a very subtle Earth , which in time , as it happened to be situated , became a more gross and conspicuous salt .
If this water happen to fall upon a sandy ground , it cannot sink and rest there , but by a constant Circulation , is driven and born upwards , wherefore such places prove barren .
On the other hand , those places which do embrace water like a spunge , as the marsh lands do , these grow warm , and make almost an inseparable union , with the salt contained in the water , which makes that land very fruitful .
So that I cannot but believe , that there must be two contrary salts in Regno Vegetabili &amp; Animali , that contrarys are necessarily found in bodies soluble , and combustible , which overthrows the Maxim : Contraria in uno Corpore non , &amp;c. Again , in some measure tis true , contraria inter se pugnare , when by Motion , they are brought to a disproportion : but , when by nature , or Art , they are brought to contain true proportions , this proverb hath an end .
Thus heat and cold , when one much prevails over the other , produce Thunder , and Lightning .
But of this notion , I hope another time , to give a farther explication .
I shall only speak a word , to the opinion of those , that think Thunder , &amp; Lightning , proceeds from Sulphur , because they have found it to rain Brimstone ; which is nothing else , but the yellow dust , to be found in the blossoms of the Fir Tree , and of the Pine Tree , and also of the Hazel , blown off , and carried by the Winds into the Air , which is again thrown down upon the ground , by Violent storms of rain : upon the examination of this powder , they may soon find it no Brimstone .
Others are carried into this error , that heat , and flame , must needs proceed from oil : but we must leave them in their meaning , because these imagine , they have hit upon some new thing .
All new matters , if they have but a foundation of truth , are good , or bad , as they are made use of .
That I may not in an affair , wherein perhaps , you have made much better Observations , too long detain you , I shall only select an Observation , or two , wherein I have particularly observed , that a Calidum &amp; Frigidum , are to be found in a Fulminating , and combustible body .
I shall also be glad to be informed of the contrary by any Chymist in Europe , if he can find out any body , that by a fair Chemical examen , does not contain Calidum &amp; frigidum , except the true oil of Vitriol , which ( as we have already said , )has only so much frigidum , as it contains Humidum or common water , which is so far overbalanced by the Acidum , that we can discern no Frigidum at all .
In this Menstruum all metals can be dissolved , excepting gold , which requires a frigidum , to be joined with aCalidum .
These terms of Acidum , Urinosum , and Alkali , have so much confounded all men , that it has moved me , to write particularly , and copiously of them , in Laboratorio meo Experim entali .
But in short , I find all Acida , excepting Oleum Vitrioli , to consist of Salia composita , mixed with a Sal Frigidum .
Alkali salts , are all much the same , if clean and pure , and nothing else but Salia Acida cum frigidis , and are much a kin to common sea salt , when that is dispirited .
The Acids , if you fix them by a mixture of Earth , become Alkali salts .
But in case you join pure oil of Vitriol with such an Earth , as Cornu Cervi calcinatum , which carry 's in it no more of an Acidum , or of an Urinosum , this will not yet agree with other Alkalys , unless you give it a supply of an Urinosum .
Salia frigida if pure , are all homogeneous , let them be made of what Vegetables , or Animals soever : from whence I infer , that nature only makes use of these two principal parts : which since I came to understand it , has excused me from many a troublesome work or operation , and would also much lessen the processes of many , and lighten their labours , did they but know the true property of those bodies they work upon .
Since now I suppose my self , to have laid this firm Foundation , I will only hint at two or three well known materials , out of which heat , and Lightning may be brought , in which no Oleum can be demonstrated to have been contained .
This I needed not to have done , because , you have made more Experiments your selves of this nature : I only do it with regard to the Oleisti , who would fain introduce some new thing , even against experience ; &amp; who would yet farther confound , the confused World , through their opiniated Philosophical Arguments , whereas they had more need be lead out of mistakes .
I shall begin with Aurum Fulminans ; to prepare this , is so well known , that I need not describe the way .
The Gold cannot be dissolved without a frigidum , but when it is once dissolved by it , it must be precipitated by the same again , e. g. with spirit of Urine ; by this means , you get a powder , that gives a great report , a very clear light , and burns .
If you cannot see the Lightning , for it is very transient , you may put out the Candle , and you will easily discern it .
Here is nothing but an Acidum and Urinosum joined by an Earth ; from whence this Thundring noise proceeds , of which in some Manuscripts , that I have yet by me , I have more copiously treated .
Perhaps it may be said , that if I precipitated the matter , with salt of Tartar , it would be one and the same thing : why dos this make it heat as well , as if it were precipitated with an Urinosum or frigidum .
I answer in few words : that there is already in the solution , as much of the Urinosum as is necessary , so that a farther affusion of an Urinosum , will not well agree .
Therefore it happens , that when the Gold is precipitated by this Alkali , so called , the Urinosum may be so suppressed , as not to make an explosion ( the reason of which is also well known to me , ) now in case the precipitate should be dried , and imbibed sometimes with a spirit of urine , it will then recover its fulminating power again .
So that we see , where heat and flame is , there must be two contrary Principles .
In the next place , If I take a good spirit of Nitre , and drop upon it guttatim , spirit of Wine , until it ceases to make an ebullition , the Urinosum is then in a balance with the Acidum .
Only put this salt in a heated crucible , and it will go off with an explosion ; only you have here no report , but heat and light : but if you join it with an Earth ( as Aurum Fulminans is , ) you shall then have a reM 2 pert .
port .
This spirit of Nitre , and calcined coral will doe , if they are ~ , or brought to be dry .
If ~ necessary , I could instance in that burning mixture ex Oleo Vitrioli , spiritu urinae , &amp; Jove : in all these we have a Catidum &amp; frigidum , which is brought into motion by warmth , and may give you heat , Thunder , and Lightning as you please to manage it .
Salt of Tartar , Sulphur , and Nitre , make a fulminating powder , he will err here , that will ascribe the effect to Sulphur , as if it produced it , by virtue of its oil , it is very plain , that it proceeds from the two contrary salts .
The Acidum alone produces heat , but no flame , unless the frigidum be added .
Just as a red hot Iron , may burn , or scorch a thing , that it cannot bring to flame , unless the frigidum should meet it .
Oil of Vitriol burns wood , which it could not do , unless it met its contrary there .
I will pass by the terrible heat , excited in the solution of Jupiter &amp; Mars , altho ' many such might be appealed to , which are well known to the experienced .
I shall only mention the wood coal ; take it &amp; let it be thoroughly kindled , and then go out of it self : kindle it thoroughly once more , and let it quench , or go out in a crucible or some place where the cold Air , may not too much annoy it : this may be done ten , or twenty times successively , and it will continue to give heat , and light : if this came from oil , sure it must needs be a veryfixt oil , and tis impossible it should perform such a work : but a Sal duplicatum , which by virtue of its terrestreity , is called an Alkali , is to be found here .
But least I detain you too long , I shall conclude with my desires , you will not ill resent this my Address , but at your leisure hours , set down your determination in a Page , whether I have treated things contrary to truth and experience , whatever it be , I shall willingly embrace it , and be glad to be better informed , &amp;c. FINIS .
Printed at the Theatre in Oxford , for Hen .
Clements Book seller in Oxford .

