1 .
" On the Embryogeny of Comatula Rosacea ( Linck ) .
" By WYVILLE THOMSON , Esq. , Professor of Geology in Queen 's College , Belfast .
Communicated by Dr. CARPENTER .
Received December 7 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The author briefly described the male and female reproductive organs of Comatula .
When the ova are mature , and before impregnation , they are protruded and remain hanging from the ovarian orifice , entangled in the areolar tissue of the everted ovary .
In this position impregnation appears usually to take place .
After segmentation of the yelk , a solid nucleus is formed in the centre of the mulberry yelk-mass .
This nucleus becomes invested in a special membrane , and into this embryonic mass the remainder of the yelk is gradually absorbed .
Ciliary motion is observed at various points on the surface of the enclosed embryo , which finally assumes its characteristic form .
The young larva , on escaping from the egg , consists of a homogeneous mass of pale-yellow granular matter , with scattered nuclei , cells , and oil-globules .
It is barrelshaped , and girded at intervals with about five broad ciliated bands .
As development proceeds , one of these belts becomes depressed at a certain point ; and within the loop thus formed , an inversion of the integument indicates the position of the rudimentary mouth .
A distinct oesophagus and stomach are rapidly differentiated , and a short intestine , ending in a large anal orifice , near the posterior extremity of the animalThe larva at the same time becomes lengthened and vermiform ; the girding ciliated bands resolve themselves into a single transverse band , encircling the body near the anterior extremity , and a band passing below the mouth and longitudinally down either side to the tail .
Large lobulated masses of fine granular tissue occupy the cavity of the body on either side of the alimentary canal .
The echinoderm-zooid originates , apparently , beneath the integulent of the larva , but perhaps in an inversion of that integument , in the form of a rosette of cells encysted near the upper extremity of the intestine .
The rosette is at first single , but shortly takes the appearance of a double ring , the rings being united by a curved tube .
These rings seem to represent the rudiments of the ambulacral vascular system of the echinoderm , and the curved tube the origin of the alimentary canal .
A dense coating of granular areolar tissue is formed round the young crinoid , obscuring the further development of the internal organs .
The mode of its disengagement from the larva was not observed .
Free from the locomotive larva , the echinoderm in its earliest stage is a motionless , white , egg-like body , covered externally with a thick transparent layer , which is traversed vertically by scattered fusiform oil-cells .
Beneath this layer are seen rapidly-forming patches of the calcified areolar tissue so characteristic of the class .
The body becomes club-shaped ; the narrow end attaches itself by cement-matter to some foreign substance , and a head and stem are distinguished .
Two corresponding rows of five plates each ( the basalia , and the first row of the interradialia ) form a calcareous chalice round the base of the head .
Rudimentary arms now first make their appearance , and the development of the attached pentacrinal form proceeds steadily .
From his observations of several broods during the spring of 1858 , the author was led to believe that , under circumstances favourable to the production of the pentacrinal stage , the development of the larva may be arrested in any of its earlier stages , and before the complete differentiation of its internal organs .
It is hoped that the observations of another season may solve this and other questions which still remain somewhat obscure .

