1876 .
] Dr. E. Frankland o Organo-boron Compounds .
XVIII .
" On Organo-boron Compounds .
" By E. Frankland , D.C.L. , F.B.S. Received June 14 , 1876 .
In a former communication to the Royal Society* I described the action of zincethyl and zincmethyl upon boric ethylate , and showed that these organo-metallic bodies displace the ethoxyl ( Eto=C2II50 ) of the ethylate by the organic radical which they contain .
Thus the action of zinc-methyl upon boric ethylate is expressed by the following equation:\#151 ; BEto3 + 3ZnMe2 = BMe3 + 3ZnMeEto .
Boric ethylate .
Zincmethyl .
Boric methide .
Zincic methoethylate .
It was also shown that spontaneously inflammable boric ethide ( BEt ) , when cautiously exposed to a slow current , first of air and then of oxygen , combines with two atoms of oxygen forming boric ethodiethylate ( BEtEto2)\#151 ; a liquid boiling with partial decomposition between 95 ' and 125 ' C. , but capable of being distilled without change in vacuo .
By contact with water , this compound was instantly transformed into boric ethodihydrate , thus:\#151 ; BEtEto2 + OII2 = BEtHo2 + 2EtHo .
Boric ethodiethylate .
Water .
Boric ethodihydrate .
Alcohol .
I have recently resumed the investigation of these compounds , and have obtained results of which the following is a preliminary description .
Boric Etliicle .
Instead of using boric ethylate and zincethyl for the preparation of this compound , it may be obtained by passing a current of the vapour of boric chloride through zincethyl .
The reaction appears to take place according to the following equation:\#151 ; BC13 + 3ZnEt2 = BEt3 + 3ZnEtCl .
Boric chloride .
Zincethyl .
Boric ethide .
Zincic ethochloride .
Diboric EthopentetTiylate .
When equal molecules of boric ethylate and zincethyl are digested at about 100 ' C. for four or five hours , and then submitted to distillation , there is obtained a liquid distillate , which yields , on rectification , a considerable fraction boiling at 110 ' to 113 ' C. , whilst zincic ethoethylate is left in the retort .
On analysis this liquid was found to consist of equal molecules of boric ethylate and boric ethodiethylate .
The following equation explains the reaction :\#151 ; 2BEto3 + ZnEt2 = BEtEto2 , BEto3 + ZnEtEto .
Boric ethylate .
Zincethyl .
Diboric ethopentethylate .
Zincic ethoethylate .
The new compound is a colourless mobile liquid boiling at about 112 C. , and condensing again unchanged .
It possesses a slight ethereal odour and a sweetish taste .
The specific gravity of its vapour , taken at 114 and 120 ' C. , is 69 ( H=l ) , which agrees exactly with the calculated * Phil. Trans , vol. clii .
p. 167 .
166 Dr. E. Frankland on Organo-boron Compounds .
[ June 15 , density , on the assumption that , in passing from the liquid to the gaseous condition , the compound is broken up into its two constituent molecules\#151 ; boric ethodiethylate and boric ethylate .
On volatilization , therefore , it behaves exactly like ammonia boric methide ( NH8 , BMes ) described in my former paper ; and this deportment suggests the possibility of a pentadic condition of the boron atom corresponding to that of nitrogen , phosphorus , and arsenic .
On this supposition the compounds just mentioned would have the following constitutional formulae : H Me Ammonia boric methide H\#151 ; N=B\#151 ; Me k hie Et Et Diboric ethopentethylate Et\#151 ; B = B\#151 ; O\#151 ; Et 0 O 1 I Et Et Brought into contact with water , diboric ethopentethylate is instantly decomposed , forming boric acid and boric ethodihydrate:\#151 ; BEtEtoa , BEto3 + 5\#169 ; H2 = BEtllo , + BHo3 + 5EtHo .
Diboric ethopentethylate .
Water .
Boric ethoclihydrate .
Boric acid .
Alcohol .
If the quantity of water used for this decomposition be small , the boric acid separates , almost completely , in minute crystals , whilst the boric ethodihydrate remains in solution , and may be obtained in the crystalline form by simple evaporation over sulphuric acid vacuo .
Boric Diethethylate .
Intermediate between boric ethide and boric ethodiethylate , theory indicates the existence of a compound containing an atom of boron combined with two semimolecules of ethyl and one of ethoxyl , BEt2Eto .
I find that this body is produced in large quantity when boiling boric ethylate is digested for several hours with twice as much zincethyl as that which was employed to form diboric ethopentethylate :\#151 ; BEtOg + 2ZnEta = BEt2Eto + 2ZnEtEto .
Boric ethylate .
Zincethyl .
Boric diethethylate .
Zincic ethethylate .
After rectification in an atmosphere of carbonic anhydride , the product boiled at 102 ' to 104 ' C. ; but analysis showed that it persistently retained a small quantity of boric ethylate , or diboric ethopentethylate , from which it could not be freed by repeated rectification .
When , however , diboric ethopentethylate was treated with the necessary amount of zinc1876 .
] Dr. E. Frankland on Ory Compounds .
ethyl , there was obtained , by distillation in an atmosphere of carbonic anhydride , a liquid product , which , on rectification , yielded a considerable fraction boiling between 102 ' and 103 ' C. This fraction gave , on analysis , numbers for carbon , hydrogen , and boron closely corresponding to those required by the above formula .
Boric diethethylate is produced from diboric ethopentethylate by the following reaction :\#151 ; BEtEto2 , BEto3 + 3ZnEt2 = 2BEt2Eto + 3ZnEtEto .
Boric ethopentethylate .
Zincethyl .
Boric diethethylate .
Zincic ethethylate .
Boric diethethylate is a colourless , transparent , mobile , and neutral liquid , of ethereal odour and pungent taste .
It boils at 102 ' C. , and distils unchanged .
Its vapour-density , taken at 135'-5 C. , is 56-5 , the theoretical specific gravity for a two-volume vapour of the above formula being 57 ( H=l ) .
In air , boric diethethylate is spontaneously inflammable , burning with a green and slightly luminous flame .
Exposed to a slow current , first of dry air and then of oxygen , it is converted into boric ethodiethylate:\#151 ; BEt2Eto 0 = BEtEto .
, .
Boric diethethylate .
Boric ethodiethylate .
Boric Diethohyclrate .
When boric diethethylate is shaken up with water and then allowed to stand , a spontaneously inflammable ethereal liquid , similar in appearance to boric ethide , rises to the surface of the water .
This liquid cannot be distilled without decomposition ; but on being submitted to analysis , after drying over calcic chloride , it gave numbers for carbon , hydrogen , and boron closely approximating to those required by the formula BEt2Ho .
Boric diethohydrate has an ethereal odour and a pungent taste , very unlike the intense sweetness of boric ethodihydrate .
It is produced by the substitution of one semimolecule of hydroxyl for one of ethoxyl , according to the following equation:\#151 ; BEt2Eto + OH2 = BEt2Ho + EtHo .
Boric diethethylate .
Water .
Boric diethohydrate .
Alcohol .
Boric Ethethylate-Tiydrate .
Submitted to a slow current of dry air , boric diethohydrate absorbs oxygen ; and if the vessel in which the reaction is conducted be kept cool , colourless crystals gradually make their appearance .
These crystals are soluble in the diethohydrate ; but when the oxidation of the latter is completed , the entire liquid solidifies at a temperature slightly below 8 C. , but immediately liquefies again when that temperature is exceeded .
Submitted to analysis , the new body gave numbers for carbon , hydrogen , and boron , closely agreeing with the formula BEtEtoHo .
Sir C. Shadwell on Terrestrial Magnetism .
[ June 15 , This compound is therefore obviously produced by the following reactionBEt2Ho + 0 = BEtEtoHo .
Boric diethohydrate .
Boric ethethylate-hydrate .
Boric ethethylate-hydrate is a transparent and mobile liquid at ordinary temperatures , but below 8 ' C. it is a white crystalline solid , which has an odour like that of boric ethide and a strong pungent taste .
It is neutral to test-papers , and is rapidly decomposed by water , exchanging its semimolecule of ethoxyl for hydroxyl , and forming boric ethodi-hydrate and alcohol ; thus , \#151 ; BEtEtoHo + OH2 = BEtHo2 + EtHo .
Boric ethethylate-hydrate .
Water .
Boric ethodihydrate .
Alcohol .
Unlike boric diethethylate and boric diethohydrate , this body is not spontaneously inflammable ; but , like the latter , it cannot be distilled at the ordinary atmospheric pressure without undergoing decomposition .
X am now engaged in submitting the organo-boron compounds and their derivatives to a thorough investigation , and hope shortly to have the honour of laying before the 'Royal Society further details respecting this family of organic compounds .
In conclusion I have much pleasure in expressing my thanks to my assistant , Mr. J. M. Cameron , for the efficient aid which he has afforded me in this work .
XIX .
" A Contribution to Terrestrial Magnetism .
" By Vice-Admiral Sir Charles Shadwell , K.C.B. , F.B.S. Received June 15 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author records the results of a series of observations for the " Magnetic Dip " taken during the voyages of H.M.S. 'Iron Duke ' in the eastern seas , visiting China , Japan , and adjacent places , in the years 1871-75 .
The dip-circle employed was furnished with two needles , and the concluded dip recorded is the mean result of the observations by both needles .
The observations are sixty-six in number , taken at forty-two places , opportunities having been frequently afforded of repeating them on suc-C3Ssive visits to the same station .
In some instances the observations were repeated after an interval of from twelve to fourteen years , at stations formerly visited by the author on a previous visit to China and Japan ( 1857-59 ) , thus affording data for the deduction of the approximate values of the secular change of this element .
Moreover some of the observations having been taken at off-lying stations to the eastward of the coast-line of the Asiatic continent , data have been obtained for

