II .
" On the Spectrum of Comet 1 , 1866 .
" By WILLIAM HUGGINS , F.R.S. Received January 11 , 1866 .
The successful application of prismatic analysis to the light of the nebulae showed the great importance of subjecting the light of comets to a similar examination , especially as we possess no certain knowledge of the intimate nature of those singular and enigmatical bodies , or of the cosmical relations which they sustain to our system .
The importance of a prismatic analysis of cometary light is enhanced by the consideration of the general resemblance which some of the nebule present to the nearly round vaporous masses of which some comets , in some positions at least in their orbits , appear to consist , -a resemblance which suggests the possible existence of a close relation between nebulous and cometary matter .
I made several unsuccessful attempts to obtain a prismatic , observation of Comet 1 , 1864 .
The position of the comet and the weather were unfavourable .
M. Donati succeeded in making an examination of the spectrum of this comet .
" It resembles , " says M1 .
Donati , " the spectra of the metals ; in fact the dark portions are broader than those which are more luminous , and we may say these spectra are composed of three bright lines"* .
Yesterday evening , January 9 , 1866 , I observed the spectrum of Comet 1 , 1866 .
The telescope and spectrum-apparatus which I employed are described in my paper " On the Spectra of some of the Nebule " * .
The appearance of this comet in the telescope was that of an oval nebulous mass surrounding a very minute and not very bright nucleus .
The length of the slit of the spectrum-apparatus was greater than the diameter of the telescopic image of the comet .
The appearance presented in the instrument when the centre of the comet was brought nearly upon the middle of the slit , was that of a broad continuous spectrum fiading away gradually at both edges .
These fainter parts of the spectrum corresponded to the more diffused marginal portions of the comet .
Nearly in the middle of this broad and faint spectrum , and in a position in the spectrum about midway between b and F of the solar spectrum , a bright point was seen .
The absence of breadth of this bright point in a direction at right angles to that of the dispersion showed that this monochromatic light was emitted from an object possessing no sensible magnitude in the telescope .
This observation gives to us the information that the light of the coma of this comet is different from that of the minute nucleus .
The nucleus is self-luminous , and the matter of which it consists is in the state of ignited gas .
As we cannot suppose the coma to consist of incandescent solid matter , the continuous spectrum of its light probably indicates that it shines by reflected solar light .
Since the spectrum of the light of the coma is unlike that which characterizes the light emitted by the nucleus , it is evident that the nucleus is not the source of the light by which the coma is rendered visible to us .
It does not seem probable that matter in the state of extreme tenuity and diffusion in which we know the material of the comm and tails of comets to be , could retain the degree of heat necessary for the incandescence of solid or liquid matter within them .
We must conclude , therefore , that the coma of this comet reflects light received from without ; and the only available foreign source of light is the sunt .
If a very bright comet were to visit our system , it might be possible to observe whether the spectra of the coma and the tail contain the dark lines which distinguish solar light .
If the continuous spectrum of the coma of Comet 1 , 1866 , be interpreted to indicate that it shines by reflecting solar light , then the prism gives no information of the state of the matter which forms the coma , whether it be solid , liquid , or gaseous .
Terrestrial phenomena would suggest that the parts of a comet which are bright by reflecting the sun 's light , are probably in the condition of fog or cloud .
We know , from observation , that the comae and tails of comets are formed from the matter contained in the nucleus .
The usual order of the phenomena which attend the formation of a tail appears to be that , as the comet approaches the sun , material is thrown off , at intervals , from the nucleus in the direction towards the sun .
This material is not at once driven into the tail , but usually forms in front of the nucleus a dense luminous cloud , into which for a time the bright matter of the nucleus continues to stream .
In this way a succession of envelopes may be formed , the material of which afterwards is dissipated in a direction opposite to the sun , and forms the tail .
Between these envelopes dark spaces are usually seen .
If the matter of the nucleus is capable of forming by condensation a cloud-like mass , there must be an intermediate state in which the matter ceases to be self-luminous , but yet retains its gaseous state , and reflects but little light .
Such a non-luminous and transparent condition of the cometary matter may possibly be represented by some at least of the dark spaces which , in some comets , separate the cloud-like envelopes from the nucleus and from each other .
Several of the nebulae which I have examined give a spectrum of one line only , corresponding in refrangibility with the bright line of the nucleus of the comet referred to in this paper .
Other nebulae give one and two fainter lines besides this bright line .
Whether either or both of these were also present in the spectrum of this comet I was unable to determine .
The light of the comet was feeble , and the presence of the continuous spectrum made the detection of these lines more difficult .
I suspected the existence of the brighter of these lines .
I employed different eyepieces , and also gave breadth to the bright point by the use of the cylindrical lens , but I was not able to obtain satisfactory evidence of more lines than the bright one already described .
In my paper " On the Spectra of the Nebhlue , " I showed that this bright line corresponds in refrangibility with the brightest of the lines of nitrogen .
This line may perhaps be interpreted as an indication that cometary matter consists chiefly of nitrogen , or of a more elementary substance existing in nitrogen .
The great varieties of structure which may exist among comets , as well as the remarkable changes which the same comet undergoes at different epochs , will cause all those who are interested in the advance of our knowledge of the cosmical relations of these bodies , and of the gaseous nebulae , to wait with some impatience the visit of a comet of sufficient splendour to permit a satisfactory prismatic examination of the physical state of cometary matter during the various changes which are dependent upon the perihelion passage of the comet .

