161 On the Weight of Precipitum obtainable in Precipitin Interactions ivith Small Weights of Homologous Protein .
By Professor D. A. Welsh and Dr. H. Gr .
Chapman .
( Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received December 17 , 1907 , \#151 ; Read February 6 , 1908 .
) ( From the Physiological and Pathological Laboratories of the University of Sydney .
) In a previous communication* on precipitin reactions , we brought forward observations which led to the conclusion that the precipitum is derived mainly from the antiserum and not from the homologous protein .
In a recent reviewf of our paper the suggestion was made that gravimetric evidence might be more conclusive .
Acting on this suggestion , we have carried out experiments in which a considerable amount of antiserum was allowed to interact with a known small amount of homologous protein .
As soon as the interaction was completed , the deposits were collected , washed , and weighed .
In every case the amount of dried precipitum exceeded the amount of dried homologous protein .
The smallest precipitum obtained weighed more than twice , the largest more than 25 times , the homologous protein employed in the interaction .
Former observations^ had revealed that antisera require very different amounts of protein to ensure the formation of maximal deposits .
It was , therefore , to be expected that considerable variations would be obtained in the weight of deposits produced by small amounts of protein in different antisera .
Method of Experiment .
The antiserum was obtained from rabbits which were bled on the day of the experiment .
One milligramme or 2*5 milligrammes dried egg-white or blood serum was dissolved in 10 c.c. salt solution and added to the homologous antiserum , together with about 90 c.c. salt solution .
The whole of the available clear antiserum , with the exception of less than 1 c.c. reserved for control observations , was employed .
The dried protein was prepared under aseptic conditions , and every precaution was taken to exclude micro-organismsS * Welsh and Chapman , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 78 , p. 297 , 1906 .
t Mouton , ' Bulletin de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' 1907 .
+ Welsh and Chapman , ' Journ. of Hygiene , ' vol. 6 , p. 263 , 1906 .
S We are unable to confirm Friedberger , ' Centralb .
f. Bakt .
, Orig .
, ' vol. 43 , pp. 490\#151 ; 494 , March 5 , 1907 , in his statements regarding the prevention of bacterial growth by precipitin antisera , as our tubes tend to become infected in about 7 days .
Prof. D. A. Welsh and Dr. H. G. Chapman .
[ Dec. 17 , during the experiment .
After 48 hours the clear superfluids were removed , and were usually subjected to further experiment , either by addition of more homologous protein , or by addition of fresh antiserum from another immunised animal .
Since it had been shown* that different homologous antisera might interact to yield a precipitate , appropriate controls were carried out which showed that no trace of deposit occurred as the result of the interactions with one another of the antisera used in these experiments .
The deposits from the interactions were shaken up three times with 50 c.c. saline solution , and separated by the centrifuge .
They were then washed five times with 50 c.c. distilled water , whereupon the superfluid yielded no trace of soluble protein .
After three washings with absolute ethyl alcohol , they were finally treated with ether free from water .
On removal of the excess of ether with a pipette , the deposits were placed in an oven at 50 ' C. for 24 hours , and dried to constant weight in a desiccator over calcium chloride .
The weighings were made in small glass test-tubes of about 7 grammes tare , in which the final washings with alcohol and with ether had been carried out .
Amount of Precipitum obtainable from Large Quantities of Antiserum with Small Amounts of Homologous Protein .
Five experiments were undertaken , and the results are summarised in Table I. Table I. No. of experi- ment .
Weight of homologous protein ( dried ) .
Amount of antiserum ( fresh ) .
Weight of precipi- tum ( dried ) .
1 2 3(a ) 3 ( \#187 ; ) 4 ( a ) 4(5 ) 5 ( a ) 5(5 ) 5(c ) 2*5 milligrammes hen egg-white 2*5 milligrammes hen egg-white 1*0 milligramme horse serum Superfluid of 3 ( a ) 1*0 milligramme ostrich egg-white ... 4*0 milligrammes ostrich egg-white r0 milligramme hen egg-white Superfluid of 5 ( a ) Superfluid of 5 ( b ) 19 c.c. hen egg antiserum ( No. 40 ) ... 20 c.c. hen egg antiserum ( No. 41 ) ... 19 c.c. horse antiserum ( No. 43 ) 13 c.c. horse antiserum ( No. 42 ) 20 c.c. ostrich egg antiserum ( No. 44 ) Superfluid of 4 ( a ) 18 c.c. hen egg antiserum ( No. 47 ) ... 16 c.c. hen egg antiserum ( No. 46 ) ... 18 c.c. hen egg antiserum ( No. 48 ) ... milligrammes .
18 *0 18 *0 2 2 o-O 5 *0 11 *0 13 -0 8*5 4-4 In experiment ( 1 ) 2'5 milligrammes dried hen egg-white interacted once with 19 c.c. fresh hen egg antiserum ( No. 40 ) and caused the formation of a deposit * Nuttall , Hopkins , and Strangeways , quoted by Nuttall , ' Blood Immunity and Blood Relationship , ' p. 129 , Cambridge , 1904 .
1907 .
] Precipitum obtainable in Precipitin Interactions , 163 weighing 18 milligrammes , or more than seven times the weight of the homologous protein concerned .
In experiment ( 2 ) also 2-5 milligrammes dried hen egg-white interacted once with 20 c.c. fresh hen egg antiserum ( No. 41 ) , and yielded a precipitum of 18 milligrammes .
In experiment ( 3 ) 1 milligramme dried horse blood serum , interacting ( a ) with 19 c.c. fresh horse antiserum ( No. 43 ) produced a deposit of 2'2 milligrammes , or more than twice the weight of the homologous protein .
The residual homologous protein in the clear superfluid , interacting with 13 c.c. of a second fresh horse antiserum ( No. 42 ) , yielded a further deposit of 5 milligrammes , making 7'2 milligrammes in all , or more than seven times the amount of the original homologous protein .
In experiment ( 4 ) ( a ) 1 milligramme dried ostrich egg-white , interacting with 20 c.c. fresh ostrich egg antiserum ( No. 44 ) , led to a deposit of 5 milligrammes , and ( b ) the subsequent addition of 4 milligrammes dried ostrich egg-white to the clear superiluid led to a further deposit of 11 milligrammes .
In experiment ( 5 ) 1 milligramme dried hen egg-white , interacting ( a ) with 18 c.c. fresh hen egg antiserum ( No. 47 ) , brought down a deposit of 13 milligrammes .
The residual protein in the clear superfluid , interacting ( ) with 16 c.c. of a second fresh hen egg antiserum ( No. 46 ) , gave a further deposit of 8'5 milligrammes .
The resulting superfluid , again interacting ( c ) with 18 c.c. of a third hen egg antiserum ( No. 48 ) , gave a third deposit of 4'4 milligrammes .
Thus , by allowing 1 milligramme of the homologous protein to interact successively with three antisera ( which did not mutually interact ) , ^ total deposit of 25-9 milligrammes was attained .
The progressively diminishing weights of precipitum obtained from the successive antisera in experiment ( 5 ) ( a ) , ( 5 ) , and ( c ) , do not necessarily indicate that the homologous protein is being appreciably used up in the interactions .
A difference in weight of deposit may be an indication merely of a difference in precipitability of antiserum , a circumstance to which we have already referred .
This interpretation is consistent with the control observations made with each of these antisera and fresh homologous protein , and also consistent wdth the progressively increasing weights of deposit obtained in similar circumstances in experiment ( 3 ) ( )and ( b ) and its corresponding controls .
Ihus in the control observations in experiment ( 5 ) , when 0*1 c.c. of \#166 ; each of the three antisera concerned was tested separately with 0'00005 gramme homologous protein , it was found that the largest deposit was given by ( a ) antiserum No. 47 , and the smallest by ( ) antiserum No. 48 .
VOL. lxxx.\#151 ; B. o 164 Precipitum obtainable in Precipitin Interactions , etc. Conclusions .
These observations reinforce our previous conclusions* regarding certain phenomena of precipitin reactions by showing :\#151 ; ( 1 ) That the homologous protein is capable of throwing out of solution many times its weight of precipitum , and ( 2 ) That , in the interaction of minute quantities of homologous protein with large amounts of antiserum , the protein is not completely removed from the superfluid , but that sufficient remains to produce a second , and also to produce a third interaction with similar large amounts of fresh antiserum .
It is apparent , therefore , that the serum ( antiserum ) of a rabbit , immunised with egg-white or with blood serum , acquires the capacity , not so much of precipitating , as of being precipitated by the homologous protein ; in other words , that the antiserum , and not the homologous protein , is the main source of " precipitable " substance .
We desire to acknowledge the courtesy of Professor Anderson Stuart in placing his laboratory at our disposal .
* Welsh and Chapman , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 78 , p. 312 , 1906 .

