Report on the Solar Eclipse Expedition to Ghoglee .
21 Effect of the Eclipse on Temperature as shown by Five-Minute Readings\#151 ; continued .
Time of day .
Dry bulb .
Wet bulb .
hrs .
mins .
1 0 -1*3 -0*8 1 5 -1-9 -0-8 1 10 -2-0 -1-3 1 15 -2*2 -1-4 1 20 -2-8 -1-9 1 25 -3-4 -1-9 1 30 -4-0 -2-5 1 35 -4-0 -2-5 1 1 Totality 45 \#151 ; 5T -7-2 -35 -35 1 50 -7-7 -3-5 1 55 -8-3 -3-6 2 0 -8-9 -3-6 2 5 -8-5 \#151 ; 31 2 10 -7-6 -2-6 2 15 -6-7 -2-2 2 20 -5-7 -1-9 2 25 \#151 ; 5T -1-7 2 30 \#151 ; 4-4 -1-7 2 35 -3-4 -1-5 2 40 -3-7 -1-4 2 45 -3-5 -1-2 2 50 -3-5 \#151 ; 12 2 55 \#151 ; 3T -0-6 3 0 Last contact -31 -0*6 3 30 -2*6 -0-3 4 0 -2-5 -0-2 " Total Solar Eclipse of January 22 , 1898 .
Preliminary Report on lObservations made at Ghoglee , Central Provinces .
" By Professor Ralph Copeland , Astronomer Royal for Scotland .
Received May 10 , 1898 .
In the month of August , 1897 , I was invited by the Joint Perma-nentaEclipse Committee to take part in observing the total solar eclipse which occurred in India on 22nd January ot the present year .
The preparation of the equipment , which will be described further on , was at once proceeded with , and by the sanction of the University authorities and the Secretary for Scotland I was granted the 22 Prof. R. Copeland .
necessary leave of absence from the University and the Royal Obser-yatory .
Having shared in the general disappointment of the Russian eclipse of 1887 , and the no less unfortunate visit to Vadso in 1896 I resolved on this occasion to occupy a separate station at some distance from any large group of observers .
My only companion was our observatory engineer ( James McPherson ) , who on the two previous occasions had shown his skill and energy in setting up and handling the instruments .
A grant of \#163 ; 180 was made to me by the Committee .
This would have been amply sufficient had I dispensed with the services of Engineer McPherson , but without his aid I could not have carried out my plan of occupying an independent station and using several instruments .
Our equipment consisted of\#151 ; ( 1 ) A hoiizontal telescope of 38 feet focus and 4 inches aperture to be used with a fixed mirror , the image being received on 18-inch plates moved by clockwork .
This instrument was provided with a direct vision prism mounted on a slide in front of the object-glass , which , when drawn into position by an attendant , transformed the telescope into a prismatic camera .
( 2 ) A small prismatic camera designed for the investigation of the ultra-violet rays of the solar appendages .
To this end the object-glass was of quartz and Iceland spar , the prism being of the latter material .
( 3 ) A slit spectroscope by Grubb , with one compound prism .
( 2 ) and ( 3 ) were carried by a 4-inch equatorial mounting , and served to balance each other , ( 4 ) A 4-inch camera with a doublet lens , by Dallmeyer , of 33-inch focus , mounted on a 3-inch equatorial stand .
Both the equatorial mountings were fitted with driving clocks .
In place of a hut we were provided with a supply of laths , boards , and brown paper , plain as well as waterproof and blackened , for building the camera of the 40-foot , which had also to serve as a dark room .
The hut built with these materials served the intended purpose satisfactorily .
It was ventilated by a tin chimney like that of a magic lantern .
The instruments were despatched on the 20th November , Leith and London , to Bombay .
Engineer McPherson left Edinburgh on the 2nd December to embark in London on board the P. and O. s.s. " Britannia , " while I , leaving on the 8fch , was able to catch the same steamer at Brindisi on the 12th December .
Bombay was reached on the 26th December , and Nagpur , in the Central Provinces , two days later .
Here we were most hospitably received by Colonel Henry J. Lugard ( Madras Staff Corps ) , and with his help Report on the Solar Eclipse Expedition to 23 and that of his son , Mr. Edward Lugard , Executive Engineer , Bhun-dara , a station was finally selected on the last day of the year , close to the village of Ghoglee , 16 miles north-west of Nagpur , and about 2 statute miles south-east of the line of central eclipse .
On New Year 's Day I observed the sun for latitude , time and azimuth , and on the 2nd January we began our camp life , having lived meanwhile at Kalmeshwar , in a bungalow belonging to the Department of YY orks , three miles distant , on the way to Nagpur .
We found the large double tent provided by the Government most comfortable .
It was pitched beside a grove of mango trees , under which was a large well with a plentiful supply of water .
On the 4tli January concrete foundations were begun for the fixed mirror and lens , for the plate-carrier of the long-focus telescope , and for each of the two equa-torials .
The latter were placed in line with the dark room of the horizontal tube , so as to bring the observers within earshot of the metronome which was used to regulate the lengths of the exposures .
It is needless to give particulars respecting the adjustments of the equatorials , which were considered sufficiently accurate when within two minutes of arc of the truth .
The method pursued with the horizontal telescope was as follows With the theodolite placed on the proposed centre line of the tube , the azimuth of a distant tree was found from observations of the sun , and also of the pole star .
Two sets of footholes for the theodolite were made in blocks of cement at different levels , but referred to a common centre .
By this means the theodolite could be used either as a collimator looking through the lens of the long telescope , or as a directing telescope to bring the tube , lens , and plateholder exactly into the required line .
The fixed mirror was roughly adjusted as regards azimuth with the theodolite and a reflecting eyepiece , and as to inclination by means of a gauge and spirit level .
The final adjustment was given by slightly turning the slow motion screws of the mirror until the sun 's image ran along a paiallel of declination drawn on the cover of the piate-holder , and also crossed one or other of a set of vertical lines at a given computed time .
Ihe tube being set exactly horizontal , the plate-holder was " squared ou " by viewing the image of the object glass in a mirror held against the plate-holder in reversed positions .
The long-focus object glass was " squared on " with the help of one of the little centering telescopes originally designed by Fraunhofer .
The inclination of the slide on which the plate-holder ran was found from the computed altitude and azimuth of the sun 's centre two minutes before and two minutes after mid-totality .
The same data also ga\e the speed at which the plate had to move\#151 ; in our case 1 b/ 2 inch per minute .
No provision was made to counteract the very slight effect of the rotation of the sun 's image during the period of exposure .
The Prof. R. Copeland .
sliding frame was drawn forward by a wire cord and weight , the rate of motion being regulated by the speed at which the driving clock payed out the cord .
A tendency to advance by jerks was altogether removed by thoroughly strengthening the clock seat-board and its attachment to the fixed frame .
The clock , kindly lent by Lord McLaren , was made by Sir Howard Grubb .
We utilised the slide motion to obtain a chronographic record of the exposures .
Three pencils , m holders hinged to the standing part and moved by strings , marked the time on a slip of paper pasted on the back of the moveable frame .
The distance of the plate-holder from the cell of the lens had been found in Edinburgh to be 455'27 inches .
This interval was set otf in India with light wooden rods , which were compared with a Chesterman steel foot-rule .
The photographic focus of the Dall-meyer 4-mch had been found to agree exactly with the visual focus .
Ilie instrument was focussed in India with the help of a focussing glass , both in the day-time on an object at a distance of 440 yards ' and on stars at night , in the former case making allowance for the divergence of the rays by means of the well-known formula for conjugate foci .
The two results were practically identical , but diftered considerably from the scale reading used at home , owino- to the shrinking of the wooden tube , in which the grain runs crosswise .
e tube of the Iceland spar camera , being made of well-seasoned teak was found unchanged in length , as proved by the linear spectra of Sirius and 7 Argus .
The greatest difficulty was experienced in filling the plate-holders o the long-focus telescope .
It was only after many hours spent in paring and rasping the twisted frames that the plates were adjusted and ready for exposure .
Two plates were broken in the process .
ur Programme was as follows:\#151 ; Eight plates , 18 inches square , o e exposed by Engineer McPherson standing in the dark room , w eie he had control of the cord for opening the spring shutter , were provided for the horizontal telescope , each carried in a separate holder .
The prism was to be pulled into position by our native butler , Vardhya , at a signal from McPherson .
Mr. Meehan , Assistant Engineer of the Public Works Department , had kindly volunteered to work the ' Dallmeyer camera .
He was provided with nine quarter plates , mounted in three long slides .
The s utter was of the ordinary pneumatic kind .
I took charge of the ultra-violet prismatic camera , with six plates m t ree reversible holders .
I had also one plate ( Cadett ) in the nu 1 spectroscope , which was to be exposed by simply drawing mc t e slide .
Cadett plates were used for the horizontal telescope an t e 4-inch , while partly Lumiere and partly Cadett plates were to be tried in the prismatic camera .
Report on the Solar Eclipse Expedition to Mr Meehan came in good time on the morning of the 22nd in order to have a final opportunity of practising the management of the 4-inch .
Everything being prepared to the best of our ability , I anxiously watched with the finder of the prismatic camera for the first contact .
The first indentation in the sun 's limb was not perceived until 11 secs , after the computed time , but as the telescope only magnified thirteen time3 , and there was a chance that the prediction might be slightly wrong , this agreement was considered satisfactory .
Ten minutes before the beginning of totality the observers took their assigned stations , and a little later the metronome was set going 2 mins .
14*6 secs , before the computed total phase , McPherson saw the following edge of the diminishing sun 's image exactly on the line which had been previously marked on the sliding frame .
20 secs , later he started the clock in accordance with a signal given by me , and after about a quarter of a minute had elapsed each observti made a mark on the chronograph slip in response to the measured " one , two , three , " called out by me in time with the beats of the chronometer .
From this moment , which was 40'8 secs , before the computed disappearance of the sun , I watched the shortening line of light with the finder .
It seemed a long time in disappearing , but the sunshade was so dark that I felt sure that nothing but the photosphere could be seen through it .
I therefore refrained from giving any signal until the last trace of light had disappeared .
I then called out " totality , " as previously arranged , and had the satisfaction of hearing the shutter of the 38-foot ( which made a rather loud noise ) closing at the end of McPherson 's first exposure .
The whole of the eight plates were successfully exposed in the horizontal telescope .
No. 1 ... .
Exposure .
... .
1*4 secs .
Object .
Corona .
2 ... .
... .
6-7 " Corona .
3 ... .
... .
3-8 " Spectrum .
4 ... .
... .
6-7 " Spectrum .
5 ... .
... .
9-5 " Corona .
6 ... .
... .
13-2 " Corona .
7 Corona .
8 ... .
... .
1*0 sec. Spectrum .
The five photographs of the corona are much disfigured by an .exhalation thrown oil by the bass wood of which the plate-holdeis are made , which has caused the grain of the wood to print itselt in broad streaks on the pictures .
By combining the various negatives in one drawing , however , there is reason to believe that the details of the brighter parts of the corona can be satisfactorily worked out .
Plates 3 and 4 show very distinct spectral images 26 Report on the Solar Eclipse Expedition to of the prominences corresponding to a number of lines in the violet region of the spectrum .
On the last plate , which was exposed very shortly after the end of totality , there is a broad spectral band full of bright and dark lines of varying intensities , corresponding to irregularities in the sun 's limb and the presence or absence of prominences .
Many of the bright lines run out into the cusps .
The scale of this photograph is such that H and K are 10 mm.* apart .
By an oversight the prism was not used with Plates 1 and 2 as was originally intended .
Mr. Meehan also exposed the whole of the nine plates allotted to him .
Three of these show the coronal rays during totality .
The fourth has the coronal streamers quite distinct , although the sun is already reappearing with a trace of Baily 's heads .
The fifth plate , taken several seconds later , shows the solar crescent still further disclosed , but with the whole of the moon 's disc distinctly outlined against the background of corona .
In the last plate there is nothing to be made out beyond the over-exposed solar crescent ; the remaining three plates are blank .
I am under great obligation to Mr. Meehan for his valuable assistance with this instrument , as well as for help in other directions .
In the small prismatic camera four plates proved to be as many as I could dispose of .
The actual exposures attempted were 2-5 secs. .
47 secs .
, 19-6 secs .
, and 14*0 secs , respectively .
The resulting negatives show numerous rings and lines ranging from 1474 K to about W.L. 3000 .
The lines are sharpest in the first plate , while the 1474 K ring comes out more fully in the second and fourth negatives .
The third plate is unfortunately blank .
The plate in the integrating spectroscope , which was used without a condensing lens , shows a spectrum of three strong bright lines with a number of feebler ones between them .
With an exposure of about a minute , terminating just before the end of totality , the plate is decidedly under-exposed .
The makeshift chronograph , while working well for the other two observers , failed to record Mr. Meehan 's signals distinctly , owing probably to the greater length of the cord required to reach his telescope .
On Wednesday , 26th January , we broke up our camp at Ghoglee and sailed from Bombay on the 29th , reaching Edinburgh on the 21st February .
I wish here to record my indebtedness to all the officials and private individuals , British and native , by whose kind aid the object of the expedition was so much furthered and our visit to Central India made so pleasant as well as scientifically interesting .

