VII .
A Letter from Mr. Edward Naish , Surgeon in York , to Claudius Amyand , Esq ; Serjeant Surgeon to his Majesty , and F. R. S. Concerning an Ossification of the Crural Artery .
York , Sept. 11 .
1721 .
MR. Consett , of Cleveland in Yorkshire , a Gentleman of Sixty seven Years of Age , who all his Life before had enjoyed a perfect good State of Health , sent for me on account of a Mortification , which began ~a Month before on one of his Toes , and by gradual Advances in that Time had reached half way his Leg ; and this without any manifest Cause .
This was the State I found him in ; viz. a perfect Mortification , or Sphacelus of his Foot , and half his Leg .
In such a Case , what was to be done ?
The Gentleman saw himself dying daily by Piecemeal ; but Heart-whole , as he expressed it , and had a pretty good Pulse .
I proposed Amputation , as the only Remedy , which ( I told him ) would give him some Chance for his Life ; tho ' the Odds was against him .
This he readily consented to ; and as soon as I could get my Dressings ready , I went about the Operation ; assisted by Mr. Mitford , a Surgeon of Northallerton , and Mr. Moon of Stockton , who before had attended the Gentleman .
The Leg being taken off at the usual Place , ( which was four Inches above the Mortification ) about two or three Ounces of Blood issued out from the Muscular Part ; but upon slackening the Turniket , in order to look for , and tie the Artery , not one Drop of Blood flowed out ; to my no small Surprise .
And upon feeling the Extremity of the Artery , I found it hard and callous ; however , I secured it by a Ligature , as usual , and dressed the Stump .
The Patient ( who had born the Operation with the greatest Resolution ) being put to Bed , I was desirous to examine the Leg ; and having dissected the Artery , with its two considerable Branches as far as the Tarsus , I found them for the most part ossified ; that is to say , the Trunk , where it was amputated , was ossified about two thirds of its Circumference .
About a Quarter of an Inch lower , the whole was bony , leaving so small an Orifice , that it would only admit of a Hog 's Bristle ; not a very fine Probe , that I endeavoured to introduce .
A little lower , it was on one side bony , on t ' other membranous ; then again an entire Case of Bone .
Here and there , for the Breadth of a Barly-Corn , there would be no Bone at all .
I opened about two Inches of the internal Branch immediately above the Malleolus , it appearing blacker than the rest .
After it had been washed , I found in it about two or three Drops of coagulated Blood ; and now it is expanded and dried , it is one entire Lamina of Bone , as thick as the Shell of a Pigeon 's Egg , and of an unequal Surface .
I dissected three Ramifications of this internal Branch into the Foot ; only one of them had a very small Bit of Bone in it , about half an Inch from the Trunk .
The other great Branch , that runs on the Ligament that ties the Fociles together , was not so much ossified as that which I have described .
This Ossification ( which is the completest of any I have yet heard of ) was , no doubt , the Cause of the Mortification , and of the Death of my Patient , which follow 'd four Days after the Amputation , as Mr. Mitford informed me , being obliged to leave him the next Morning ; though I should have been curious , had I been present , to have seen how high the Ossi fication reached .
I must observe to you , That this bony Shell , or Lamina , was contained within the Tunicles , or Coats of the Artery .
I do n't doubt , but these Cases are more common than we imagine .
For when we see Mortifications seize the Extremities of Aged People , which we commonly attribute to a Decay of Nature , or an Extinction of the Vital Warmth ; this , I believe , is often the Cause .
And I am the more inclined to think so , from two or three parallel Cases I have been concerned in , since I came into Yorkshire .
I am , &amp;c. Edward Naish .

