Enquiries concerning Agriculture .
Whereas the Royal Society , in prosecuting the Improvements of Natural knowledge , have it in design , to collect Histories of Nature and Arts , and for that purpose have already , according to the several Inclinations and Studies of their Members , divided themselves into divers Committees , to execute the said design : Those Gentlemen , which do constitute the Committee for considering of Agriculture , and the History and Improvement thereof , have begun their work with drawing up certain Heads of Enquiries , to be distributed to persons Experienced in Husbandry all over England , Scotland , and Ireland , for the procuring a faithful and solid information of the knowledge and practice already obtained and used in these Kingdoms ; whereby , besides the aid which by this means will be given to the general End of collecting the aforementioned History , every place will be advantaged by the helps , that are found in any , and occasion ministred to consider , what improvements may be further made in this whole matter .
Now to the End , that those Enquiries may be the more universally known , and those who are skilful in Husbandry , publicly invited to impart their knowledge herein , for the common benefit of their Country , it hath been thought fit to publish the effect of them in Print , and withal to desire , that what such persons shall think good from their own Knowledge and Experience to communicate hereupon , they would be pleased to send it to the Printers of the Royal Society , to be delivered to either of the Secretaries of the same .
The Enquiries follow .
1 .
For Arable .
1 .
The several kinds of the soils of England , being supposed to be , either Sandy , Gravelly , Stony , Clayie , Chalky , Light-mould , Heathy , Marish , Boggy , Fenny , or Cold weeping Ground ; information is desired , what kind of soils your Country doth most abound with , and how each of them is prepared , when employed for Arable ?
2 .
What peculiar preparations are made use of to these Soils for each kind of Grain ; with what kind of Manure they are prepareds when how , &amp; in what quantity the Manure is laid on ?
3 .
At what seasons and how often they are ploughed ; what kind of Ploughs are used for several sorts of Ground ?
4 .
How long the several Grounds are let lie fallow ?
5 How , and for what productions , Heathy Grounds may be improved ?
And who they are(if there be any in your Country ) that have reduced Heaths into profitable Lands ?
6 .
What ground Marle hath over head ?
How deep generally it lies from the surface ?
What is the depth of the Marle it self ?
What the colour of it ?
Upon what grounds it is used ?
What time of the year it is to be laid on ?
How many loads to an Acre ?
What Grains Marled Land will bear , and how many years together ?
How such Marled Land is to be used afterwards , &amp; c ?
7 .
The kinds of Grain or Seed , usual in England , being supposed to be either Wheat , Miscelane , Rye , Barley , Oats , Peas , Beans , Fitches , Buck-wheat , Hemp , Flax , Rape ; We desire to know , what sorts of Grains are sown in your Country , and how each of these is prepared for Sowing ?
Whether by steeping , and in what kind of Liquor ?
Or by mixing it , and with what ?
8 .
There being many sorts of Wheat , as the White or Red Lammas , the bearded Kentish Wheat , the gray Wheat , the red or gray Pollard , the Ducks-bill Wheat , the red-earedbearded Wheat , &amp;c. And so of Oats , as the common Black , Blue , Naked , Bearded in North-males : and the like of Barley , Peas , Beans , &amp;c. The Enquiry is , which of these grow in your Country , and in what Soil ; and which of them thrive best there ; and whether each of them require a peculiar Tillage ; and how they differ in goodness ?
9 .
What are the chief particulars observable in the choice of Seed corn , and all kinds of Grain ; and what kinds of Grain are most proper to succeed one another ?
10 .
What Quantity of each kind is sown upon the StatuteAcre ?
And in what season of the Moon and year it is sowed ?
11 .
With what it struments they do Harrow , Clod and Roll , and at what seasons ?
12.How much an Acre of goodCorn , well ordered , generally uses to yield , in very good , in less good , and in the worst years ?
13 .
Some of the common Accidents and Diseases befalling Corn in the growth of it , being Meldew , Blasting , Smut ; what are conceived to be the Causes thereof , &amp; what the Remedies ?
14 .
There being other Annoyances , the growing Corn is exposed to , as Weeds , Worms , Flies , Birds , Mice , Moles , &amp;c. how they are remedied ?
15 .
Upon what occasions they use to cut the young Corn in the Blade , or to feed it ; and what are the benefits thereof ?
16 .
What are the seasons and ways of Reaping and Ordering each sort of Grain , before it be carried off the 17 .
What are the several ways of preserving Grain in the Straw , within and without doors , from all kind of Annoyance , as Mice , Heating , Rain , &amp; c ?
18 .
What are the ways of separating the several sorts of Grain from the Straw , and of dressing them ?
19 .
What are the ways of preserving any stores of separated Grain , from the Annoyances they are obnoxious to ?
2 .
For Meadows .
1 .
How the above-mentioned sorts of Soil are prepared , when they are used for Pasture or Meadow ?
2 .
The common Annoyances of these Pasture or Meadow Grounds being supposed to be , either Weeds , Moss , Sourgrass , Heath , Fern , Bushes , Briars , Brambles , Broom , Rushes , Sedges , Gorse or Furzes ; what are the Remedies thereof ?
3 .
What are the best ways of Drayning Marshes , Boggs , Fenns , &amp; c ?
4 .
What are the several kinds of Grass , and which are counted the best ?
5 .
What are the chief circumstances observable in the Cutting of Grass ; and what in the making and preserving of Hay ?
6 .
What kind of Grass is fittest to be preserved for winter-feeding ?
And what Grass is best for Sheep , for Cows , Oxen , Horses , Goats , &amp;c.

