Address delivered by the PresidenSir William Huggins , K.C.B. , O.M. , F.P.S. , at the Anniversary Meeting on November 30 , 1905 .
Since the last Anniversary the Society has lost by death twelve Fellows and four Foreign Members .
The deceased Fellows are:\#151 ; Dr. W. T. Blanford , C.I.E. , born Oct. 7 , 1832 , died June 23 , 1905 .
Sir Lowthian Bell , horn Feb. 15 , 1816 , died Dec. 20 , 1904 , aged 88 .
G. B. Buckton , born May 24 , 1818 , died Sept. 25 , 1905 , aged 88 .
Professor G. B. Howes , born Sept. 7 , 1853 , died Feb. 4 , 1905 , aged 51 .
Capt. F. W. Hutton , born Nov. 16 , 1836 , died Oct. 27 , 1905 , aged 68 .
James Mansergh , born April , 1834 , died June 15 , 1905 , aged 71 .
H. B. Medlicott , born Aug. 3 , 1829 , died April 6 , 1905 , aged 76 .
Sir Erasmus Ommanney , born May 22 , 1814 , died Dec. 21 , 1904 , aged 90 .
Sir B. Samuelson , born Nov. 22 , 1820 , died May 10 , 1905 , aged 84 .
Sir John Burdon Sanderson , Bart. , born Dec. , 1828 , died Nov. 23 , 1905 , aged 77 .
Sir William Wharton , born March 2 , 1843 , died Sept. 29 , 1905 .
Sir Charles Wilson , born March 14 , 1836 , died Oct. 25 , 1905 .
The Foreign Members are:\#151 ; O. W. von Struve .
P. Tacchini .
Baron von Eichthofen .
Albert von Kolliker .
Memorial Notices of the Fellows and Foreign Members who have been taken from us by death during the past year will appear in due course in the Obituary Notices .
Of some of them only , on this occasion , will time permit me to give expression on your behalf , to a few words of appreciation of their work , and of deep sorrow at their loss .
Not among the Fellows only , or alone in this country , but throughout the scientific world , the news of the unexpected death of our Fellow , and recent Vice-President , Dr. William Thomas Blanford , was received with deep regret and sorrow .
Not only had a distinguished worker in science fallen out , there was lost to us a gentle , kindly friend , who had gained the affectionate regard of all those who had the privilege of having been personally acquainted with him .
Only a few weeks before his death , he had been asked by the Council to write an Obituary Notice of our late Fellow , Mr. Medlicott , his Anniversary Address by William Huggins .
101 old friend and colleague , and collaborator with him in the classic work , ' The Manual of the Geology of India/ published in 1879 .
Before the printer 's proofs reached him , Dr. Blanford himself had passed from the ranks of the living .
Dr. Blanford was distinguished as a zoologist as well as a geologist .
From the time of his appointment to the Geological Survey of India in 1855 , on the completion of a very successful course of study at the Royal School of Mines , and at the Mining Academy at Freiberg , to his retirement in 1882 , by the publication of a series of works , and by untiring original observations , he greatly enriched our knowledge of the geology and zoology of that country .
Besides his published works on the geology and fauna of India , he has contributed important papers and addresses , which are distinguished by great scientific insight and a , masterly grasp of the subjects to which he had devoted his life .
His high and kindly qualities were fully recognised .
He received the distinction of the Companionship of the Order of the Indian Empire , and was awarded medals by the Royal Society and the Geological Society .
He was elected into our Society in 1874 , and was for many years Treasurer of the Geological Society .
To Mr. Medlicott belongs the honour of having largely contributed to the laying of the foundations of our knowledge of the geology of India .
Born at Loughrea , county Galway , after taking his degree at Trinity College , Dublin he entered the Geological Survey , first of Ireland , and then of England .
After holding for some ten years the Professorship of Geology in the Roorkee College of Engineering , he joined the Geological Survey of India .
In 1876 he became Superintendent ( a title subsequently changed to Director ) of the Survey .
A man of great activity , high courage , and of most liberal policy in regard to his subordinates , his appointment to the head of the Survey gave a powerful impulse to active work in all its departments .
He contributed a large part of The Manual of the Geology of India/ written , as already mentioned , in collaboration with Dr. Blanford , and published by the Government of India in 1879 .
Elected into our Society in 1877 , he received the Wollaston Medal of the Geological Society in 1888 .
He was a Fellow of the Calcutta University , and for three years President of the Asiatic Society of Bengal .
For his distinguished courage in saving the lives of a family at the time of the Indian Mutiny he was awarded a military medal .
Mourned by a very wide circle of friends , the distinguished and veteran ironmaster and metallurgist , Sir Isaac Lowthian Bell , passed from us at the ripe age of 88 .
After a course of successful study in physical science in Edinburgh , and then at Paris , he entered the Walker Ironworks near Newcastle .
About ten years later he became connected with the chemical works 102 Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
[ Nov. 30 , at Washington , in North Durham .
Under his management the works were greatly enlarged , and the manufacture of oxy-chloride of lead was introduced to take the place of white lead .
Bell will be chiefly remembered in connection with the development of the Cleveland iron industry , in which , by the establishment of works at Port Clarence , on the north bank of the Tees , he played a very important part .
Especially the firm was active in prosecuting the technical experiments by which the processes have been devised enabling Cleveland ores to compete as raw material for the production of iron and steel .
In 1865 , Bell contributed to the British Association a paper on the manufacture of iron in connection with the Northumberland and Durham coal-fields .
He was the author of numerous papers on the chemistry of iron and steel , which were collected and published in a thick volume with the title ' The Chemical Phenomena of Iron Smelting .
' He was also the author of a work on the ' Principles of the Mauufacture of Iron and Steel .
' He was one of the founders of the Iron and Steel Institute , of which he filled the office of President in 1873 to 1875 .
He was elected into our Society in 1874 , and received honorary distinctions in America and on the Continent .
In 1876 he was awarded the Albert medal by the Society of Arts , and in 1885 the honour of a baronetcy was conferred upon him , and later , in 1893 , the degree of LL. D. by the University of Edinburgh .
It is with deep sorrow that I put on record the death of a member of the present Council , a Fellow widely known and respected and beloved by every one who knew him .
Rear-Admiral Sir William Wharton may be said to have fallen a martyr to science , having contracted pneumonia and enteric fever on his visit to the Cape , to preside over the Geographical Section of the British Association .
He entered the Navy in 1857 , and on passing his examination five years later , gained the Beaufort prize for distinction in mathematics , astronomy and navigation .
In 1872 , he became Commander , and was appointed to the surveying ship " Shearwater , " for service in the Mediterranean and the East Coast of Africa .
In this work he distinguished himself by his investigation of the surface and undercurrents of the Bosphorus , setting at rest the controversies respecting the constant flow of water from the Black Sea to the Sea of Marmora .
The following year he commenced , in the " Fawn , " the survey of the Bed Sea and the East Coast of Africa , finishing with the Sea of Marmora .
On his return , he published his book , 'Hydrographical Surveying .
' He was promoted to the rank of Captain in 1880 , and after surveying work in the Eiver Plata and the Straits of Magellan , he succeeded Sir Frederick Evans as Hydrographer to the Admiralty , a post which he held for 20 years with distinction to himself , and with great 1905 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
103 advantage to the navies of the world .
Last year failing health determined him to resign his position as Hydrographer .
Sir William Wharton was a man of sound judgment , wide scientific attainments , and great capacity for work .
He was elected a Fellow of our Society in 1886 , and his official work was recognised by the distinction of K.C.B. conferred upon him at Queen Victoria 's Diamond Jubilee .
He was an active Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society , and of the Royal Geographical Society .
To the deep grief of a large circle of friends , George Bowdler Buckton passed away at the age of 88 , leaving behind him a noble example of unwearied devotion to the successful prosecution of scientific work , notwithstanding great physical infirmity due to an accident in his fifth year .
In early life his attention was given chiefly to physical science ; he was assistant to Professor Hofmann at the Royal College of Chemistry , and during the 20 years between 1845 and 1865 he published several important papers on chemical subjects , in connection with which he was elected a Fellow of our Society in 1857 .
His life work , however , was done in Natural Science , when , returning to the early love of his boyhood , he devoted himself to original research in Entomology , relating chiefly to the order Homotera .
From 1876 to the present year he published a series of important entomological monographs .
The numerous plates , many of them coloured , by which the monographs were illustrated , were drawn , and the pattern plates coloured , by his own hands ; some plates were even lithographed by himself .
Mr. Buckton was a man of wide culture , a musician as well as an artist , taking an unflagging interest in every question affecting mankind , and an active part in local affairs .
He was a member of many scientific societies at home and abroad .
It is with much regret that I have to record the death of Admiral Sir Erasmus Ommanney , a man full of years , who was personally known to many of the Fellows , and was a frequent attendant at our meetings .
Born in 1814 , he early entered the Navy , in which he rendered distinguished services to his country .
He was present as a midshipman at the battle of Navarino in 1827 .
As lieutenant he was appointed to a small frigate , which , under the command of Sir James Clark Ross , proceeded to the dangerous expedition of rescuing a number of whalers reported to be caught in the ice in Baffin 's Bay .
In 1850-51 he commanded the " Assistance " in the Arctic Search Expedition , and was the actual discoverer of the first traces of Sir John Franklin .
He directed an extensive system of sledge journeys , by which the coast of Prince of Wales Land was laid down .
Sir Erasmus Ommanney was elected into the Society in 1868 , was knighted in 1877 , and received the further honour in 1902 , of K.C.B. In 1890 he received from the King of Greece , the Cross of Grand Commander of the Order of the Saviour .
104 Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
[ Nov. 30 , The death of Mr. James Mansergh , elected into the Society so lately as 1901 , deprives the world of an engineer of very high authority on the questions of water supply and the disposal of sewage .
After his majority in 1851 he carried through very successfully the Don Pedro .II Railway , connecting Rio de Janeiro with the interior , 200 miles of which had to be constructed mostly through the virgin forest .
He returned after three and a-half years , leaving two of liis comrades in their graves and a third invalided home .
After his return , he laid out the first sewage farm in England , and afterwards was entrusted with the heavy and difficult main sewerage contract at West Ham .
Mr. Mansergh 's advice and assistance were sought not only for many great works in this country , including the gigantic water scheme for Birmingham , but also on the Continent of Europe , in America , and in Australia , where he advised as to the great work for the sewerage of the district of Melbourne .
Owing to his wide experience and his mature judgment , Mansergh was frequently called upon to take the responsible post of arbitrator or umpire in connection with water and gas undertakings .
He was elected to the office of President of the Institution of Civil Engineers in 1900 .
Professor Howes , who passed away prematurely at the age of 51 , to the great sorrow of his many friends , showed , even as a schoolboy , his innate love of science by his preparation during his spare time of microscopical slides and dissections .
He received an appointment at South Kensington , and made , under Huxley 's direction , large , coloured , anatomical drawings of various animals for the Biological Laboratory .
Subsequently he was appointed Assistant Demonstrator , and , a little later , Chief Demonstrator , and , when Huxley partially retired in 1885 , Assistant Professor .
Ten years later , when the Chair of Biology was subdivided , Howes became Professor of Zoology .
His scientific publications are numerous , consisting of papers and addresses ; among the latter should be mentioned his address as President of the Zoological Section of the British Association at its meeting at Belfast in 1902 .
His ' Atlas/ of which two editions have appeared , is well known , and he brought out revised and extended editions of Huxley and Martin 's * Elementary Biology .
' His original work deals mainly with vertebrate comparative anatomy .
Howes ' power of work was remarkable , and his knowledge and memory of detail and of current biological literature almost unique , though in his lectures and his writings he always kept before him the main issues , and was always clear and stimulating .
Generous and unselfish in all he did , his loss is deeply felt by a wide circle of friends .
He was himself a remarkable example of his own belief that " higher ambition than that of adding to the sum of knowledge no man can have : wealth , 1905 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
influence , position , all fade before it ; but we must die for it if our work is to live after us .
" The oldest in date of election of our Foreign Members , Professor Albert von Kolliker , has passed away , at the age of 88 .
In him we mourn one of the founders of modern systematic histology , and one of the most distinguished investigators and teachers in the departments of embryology and comparative anatomy .
His memoirs and writings are too numerous to mention here .
In 1847 , Albert von Kolliker was appointed to the Chairs of Physiology and Comparative Anatomy in the University of Wurzburg , and shortly afterwards joined Siebold in founding the ' Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie .
' He is the author of many important works on microscopic and comparative anatomy , and on embryology , all of which have contributed largely to the advancement of those sciences , and of which most have passed through several editions .
In 1896 , as a recognition of his brilliant scientific services , he was nominated Knight of the Order pour le ru\amp ; rite .
The Koyal Society , in 1897 , awarded him the Copley Medal , the highest honour which it has to bestow .
At the last Anniversary I occupied a few minutes in bringing to your remembrance some of the more important occasions on which the Society in the past had initiated , supported , or given advice about scientific questions in connection with the State ; and , at the same time , I called attention to the large number of responsible public duties which to-day rest permanently upon it , and by which , either through departments of the State or through other public bodies , the Society makes its influence felt strongly for the good of the country .
To-day I wish to speak of the profound influence which the discoveries of science , in great part the work of Fellows of this Society , have had upon the general life and thought of the world , especially during the last fifty years .
The untold material benefits which science has conferred upon civilised mankind are too familiar to need mention ; they are always with us , from the world 's news upon our breakfast table to our sun-bright evenings .
There are , however , other benefits more subtle and less obvious , but not less real and certainly not of less price\#151 ; the wider range of thought and the greater intellectual freedom which have followed upon modern scientific discovery .
I am justified , surely , in saying that the average way of thinking on all subjects has been as much altered and elevated by the researches and writings of men of science as have been the common conditions of living .
The contrast in what and how we think to-day , as compared with the day 106 Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
[ Nov. 30 , on which the Society received its Charter , is as great as it is in how we live and travel .
The changes which have taken place in the scope and mode of national thought , especially during the last fifty years , have been brought about mainly in two ways : by a breaking down of inherited prejudices and of traditional opinions through the results of scientific discovery ; and , secondly , by the freer and more direct methods of thinking which have followed from the experimental study of nature .
The Eoyal Society was itself a chief practical outcome of a new spirit , which , during the generation preceding its foundation , had arisen at Oxford and elsewhere , and was stirring into life the dry bones of a rigid and antiquated philosophy .
Scholasticism , already in decay , was slowly losing its hold upon the more active minds who refused to accept any longer as final the traditional hypotheses and syllogistic methods of the schools in the interpretation of natural phenomena .
There was growing slowly a conviction of the necessity in the study of nature , of an appeal to Nature herself by means of direct experiment .
Of the great minds which had come into this state of mental unrest , the most original and creative was Francis Bacon , who , by the unequalled power and eloquence with which he summed up and put into a connected system , the new ideas which were in the air , gave so great an impulse to the newer mode of thinking , as rightly to have received the name of the " Father of experimental philosophy .
" His immediate success was due , however , in no small part , to the circumstance that the time was ripe for the great changes in the way of studying nature , which , in his writings , he so powerfully expounded and enforced .
I must pause for a moment to say how very unfortunate in this respect was the lot of his great , if not greater , namesake , Roger Bacon , the " Doctor Mirabilis , " as he was properly named , who , born out of due time , exerted but little influence on contemporary thought .
Let us not forget that it was Roger Bacon , who , 300 years before the time of " large browed Verulam , " saw clearly that the study of nature could only be successfully prosecuted and advanced by means of experimental research , and so gave it the highest place as Domina omnium scientiarum .
The reasons which he gave for his exaltation of experiment , might have been written yesterday , so modern is his standpoint .
" Experimental science " he says , " has three great prerogatives over all other sciences : it verifies their conclusions by direct experiment ; it discovers truths which they could never reach ; and it investigates the secrets of nature , and opens to us a knowledge of the past and of the future .
" 1905 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
To return to Francis Bacon : his philosophy was summed up in the words , imperiumhominis , the great destiny of man as the ruler of nature ; and he saw that man 's rightful sovereignty over nature could only be attained through the slow and laborious acquirement of a true understanding of nature .
Bacon looked upon nature as an overwhelmingly complex congeries of phenomena , and as a filum labyrinthi by which man might slowly find his way through its mysteries to all knowledge , he put forward and expounded in the ' Novum Organum ' his new method , spes est una in indudione vera .
It must not be forgotten that Bacon 's induction is something more than the traditional induction of the logicians , and practically became a new method , since it includes the elimination of the non-essential .
It is no disparagement of the great and revolutionary work of Bacon , to acknowledge that the discoveries of science during the last two centuries and a-half have not been won by an exclusive following of his method .
For example , he assigns no proper place to the use of the trained imagination in scientific experiment , though , indeed , he speaks of the procedure from one experiment to another as an art , or a learned sagacity .
Further , there is in his system no sufficient appreciation of the deductive method of reasoning .
On these grounds questionings have made themselves heard , and in some quarters , rather loudly , whether Francis Bacon has a right to the high position usually accorded to him in the history of experimental science .
We shall probably not go far wrong if we allow ourselves to be guided by the views of Bacon taken by his immediate intellectual successors , the great men , Boyle , Evelyn , and others , who had the chief part in founding the Royal Society .
We find them reflected in the Ode to the Royal Society , composed , at the instance of Evelyn , by the contemporary poet Cowley .
He likens Bacon to a modern Moses who led the chosen people to the promised land of knowledge of nature , though he himself did not enter , and only viewed it imperfectly from afar .
The fine engraving by Hollar which forms the frontispiece to the large paper edition of ' Spratt 's History of the Royal Society , ' published in 1667 , the design of which was furnished by Evelyn , contains two principal figures : the first President of the Society , Lord Brouncker , is on one side of the bust of the Royal Founder , and on the other is Bacon , with the title of ArtiumInstaurator .
If the methods and discoveries of science can exert the large influence on general thought which I have claimed for them , some explanation may be needed of the great slowness of any incoming , to an appreciable extent , of a wider and freer spirit during the first centuries of the Royal Society 's existence .
Two hundred years went slowly by , without any very marked 108 Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
[ Nov. 30 , change in this respect showing itself in the intellectual attitude of the people .
The public mind , on all questions which have to do with man 's position in relation to nature , still slumbered on under the narcotic influence of traditions which were regarded as too sacred to be open to discussion .
Still , during these 200 years , the leaven of the open mind of scientific research was silently at work , for each true student of nature became , among those about him , the source of a new and living influence .
The fact was that , during all that time , there was no real mental contact , no true understanding , between the man of science and the average man of education .
The mind trained to receive without questioning the teaching of traditional authority , and the mind eager to find out new truth in the spirit of the Society 's motto , Nulliusin verba , had little in common ; they were even often mutually repellant .
It could hardly be otherwise ; there was no popular scientific Press , and in the halls of the Schools the drone of monotonous repetitions from memory of knowledge sanctioned by authority was never broken in upon by the jubilant eurekas of experiments , however simple , or of individual observation of nature .
What in the intellectual world would correspond to a thunderbolt or an earthquake was needed to awaken and transform the slumbering age\#151 ; and it came .
In the early years of Queen Victoria 's reign the accumulated tension of scientific progress burst upon the mind , not only of the nation , but of the whole intelligent world , with a suddenness and an overwhelming force , for which the strongest material metaphors are poor and inadequate .
Twice the bolt fell , and twice , in a way to which history furnishes no parallel , the opinions of mankind may be said to have been changed in a day .
Changed , not on some minor points standing alone , but each time on a fundamental position which , like a key-stone , brought down with it an arch of connected beliefs resting on long-cherished ideas and prejudices .
What took place was not merely the acceptance by mankind of new opinions , but complete inversions of former beliefs , involving the rejection of views which had grown sacred by long inheritance .
I need scarcely say that I am speaking of two scientific discoveries , following each other at no great interval of time , about the middle of the last century , and both due mainly to the work of Fellows of the Society .
The first discovery was the evidence from geology for the great antiquity of the earth , as opposed to the all but universal belief of the time , and then evidence for the great age of man .
The second discovery , of a not less revolutionary import , was the doctrine of organic evolution by the principle of natural selection , which brought about a complete change of opinion as to the position of man himself in relation to nature .
1905 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
If I speak strongly it is because I lived through that period , and my recollections are still vivid of the fierce fury of the storm of opposition with which both these innovations of thought were at first assailed .
It seems to me that these signal victories of .
new knowledge gained by experimental methods of research over views in which for generations men 's minds had been fast riveted by tradition and authority , placed natural science , for the first time , in its true position , as within its own sphere the absolute authority to which all must bow .
Up to that time , science had been on sufferance ; welcomed , indeed , when it contributed to the supply of man 's material needs , as by the steam-engine and the railroad ; dallied with and sometimes smiled at , when her conclusions did not clash with what men had been taught to regard as unassailable truth ; but rejected with scorn , and her prophets vilified with epithets borrowed from the darkest times of mediaeval persecution , whenever , in the spirit of the Society 's motto , she dared to utter words which were not in agreement with inherited beliefs .
Then , to some extent , the true position of natural science was acknowledged , and she came into her own\#151 ; the crown and sceptre of authority , which are her right\#151 ; as , to repeat Eoger Bacon 's words , Domina omnium scientiarum .
Ever since that time , notwithstanding cavillings here and there , of which the echoes are still audible , natural science has taken a truer place in relation to the general thought of the age .
Her position of supreme authority has been recognised , and each year strengthened by the unbroken series of brilliant discoveries which have distinguished the last half-century , and which have impressed themselves so much the more deeply on the public mind , because they have been lavishly accompanied by practical applications and inventions , which have increased , to an extent almost beyond words , the power , richness , and happiness of human life .
This is not the place to discuss in full how fruitful have been in all directions of human thought , and so , for the progress of mankind , the two great revolutions of opinion of which I have been speaking , especially the one that came a little later , and that will for all time be associated with the name of Charles Darwin , of which the innate vitality is so great that it has already grown into a great tree of knowledge bearing all manner of fruit .
It is , indeed , true that before Darwin the idea of a continuous development , alike in the physical and biological worlds , had formed the basis of speculations in many quarters ; but this conception , being contrary to current belief , had left no impression on the general mind .
It was not until Darwin 's works appeared that the new evidence was perceived to be overwhelming in favour of the view that man is not an independent being standing alone , but is the outcome of a general and orderly evolution. .
It follows from this view 110 Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
[ Nov. 30 , that the principle of evolution must henceforth take a guiding place in the consideration of all problems relating to man , to the history of his fundamental convictions and opinions , as well as to all social and economic questions of the present and of the future .
To the open eye all the world is indeed a stage , the boards themselves having been laid by an earlier evolution , on which , through ages , the Drama of the orderly evolution of living things has been going on .
Through the revelations of palaeontology we can , in imagination , become spectators of the Scenes of the earlier Acts of the slow progress of events leading up to the entrance upon the stage of man himself .
Then in archaeology and history , as in magic mirrors , we can see re-acted the early Scenes of the final Act ( which is still in progress ) , in which man plays the principal part .
The strident brass was softened when nature 's orchestra modulated into the melodic and more joyous leit-motiv heralding the coming on of man .
In the later Scenes , Intelligence has come on to take the leading part hitherto played by Brute Force , and man has brought wuth him into the Drama the new characters of Pity , Mercy , and Charity .
Henceforth the dominant power in the world is brain , controlled by the emotions of the heart ; and the highly-trained intelligence the chief factor of success in all departments of individual and national enterprise .
One of the most important and fruitful results of the intellectual upheaval which followed upon the two great discoveries of science , of which we have been speaking , is the almost unlimited freedom of personal belief which we enjoy to-day .
The older Fellows , who , like myself , lived through that eventful time , will not have forgotten the narrow and bigoted spirit which then prevailed .
Though without the name , and unsupported by the terrors of rack and stake , in fact and in deed , an inquisition was still in power .
The reproach of heresy was freely used , and those who dared to think for themselves , and , exercising their private judgment , to swerve from the current opinions sanctioned by antiquity , were made to feel how heavy could be the social penalties enforced by the spirit of persecution .
Experimental science came as the liberator of men 's minds , setting free from the prison house of conventional beliefs the spirits which had been lying for generations in the bonds of the dogmas of past ages .
Slowly men came to acknowledge that the arbitrary authority of names , and of systems of belief , however greatly venerated , must give way when science speaks with the reasonable authority of experiment and observation .
This new form of authority , to which men were coming to yield an unquestioning obedience , unlike the dogmatic teachers at whose feet they had sat , does not claim finality for its opinions .
It is the distinctive glory of experimental science Ill 1905 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
that it is for ever seeking further truth in all directions , and is always ready to change its opinions into agreement with the newest knowledge , whithersoever it may lead , which it is able to wrest from nature by experiment .
There are many striking recent examples , of which I will mention only the unexpected phenomena of radio-activity , and the acute earnestness of the biologist of to-day in his quest after the fundamental nature and scope of living things .
In this way , during the last half-century , under the freer conditions of general thought introduced by natural science , men gradually became accustomed to wide differences of personal opinion , and so no longer feared them ; there arose slowly the spirit of modern toleration and the recognition of the right of every man to judge for himself on all matters of opinion , that is , to allow himself to be guided by his reason , which demands sufficient evidence for belief .
Already a remarkable change in the way of looking at things in all departments of thought has been brought about .
To an extent before unknown each man now thinks for himself , and is no longer content to accept sluggishly the current beliefs of his time , but seeks to bring all things to the touchstone of experiment and experience .
Perhaps I am speaking a little prematurely , and painting the present under the illumination of the golden radiance of the dawn of a still freer future , for even to-day we are reminded in the Press , from time to time , that the spirit of persecution is not yet dead .
Another direction in which , during the last half-century , the public mind has been powerfully influenced by the discoveries and the methods of science , is in a change of attitude , in all matters of opinion , towards truth , by putting Truth for her own sake in the first place as its main quest .
I do not for a moment suggest that consciously the desire for truth does not take the first place in all honest hearts .
All the other great departments of human interests , however , as politics , economics , theology and philosophy , are broken up into sharply divided schools of thought , of which the differences of opinion are accentuated by the jealousies and the intolerance of party feeling .
In the great majority of cases , men find themselves , by the lot of birth and early education , among the adherents of one or other party , and nearly always come unconsciously to identify the issues of that particular party with truth itself .
With the most honest intentions on the part of the speakers , the reasoning which is heard in Parliament , or from public platforms , is almost always one-sided , from the warping influence of party ties and issues .
In direct opposition to this narrowness of thought , which views all subjects through the distorting mirage of party prejudice , stands the absolute freedom 112 Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
[ Nov. 30 , of mind of the man of science , who knows , or ought to know , nothing of party , and stands with open arms to welcome Truth in however strange or unexpected guise she may present herself .
In his writings , the man of science has no lower aim than the diffusion of truth so far as it is known , and no desire to make converts to any opinion or party .
As opposed to the finality of party opinions , he proclaims that truth is but very partially attained by man on any subject , for we can see Truth only imperfectly , as she appears altered by the perspective of our own standpoint .
The scientific attitude of mind is no less than antipodal to that of the ordinary party man , wrangling for his own particular shibboleth .
Following upon greater freedom of private opinion , and the desire for truth rather than for party success , has grown up the greater fearlessness in suggestion , and in the acceptance of new views , which is undoubtedly characteristic of the present age , and stands in strong contrast to the conventional timidity of half a century ago .
This fearlessness has been won chiefly through the widening of human thought by natural knowledge , by which the prejudices inherent in human nature , or which have come down by inheritance , have been greatly weakened , if not yet overcome .
The fearless courage of change of opinion required by experimental science is safeguarded by the demand which she makes in all cases , for sufficient evidence from observation or experience .
To sum up , the influence of science during the last fifty years has been in the direction of bringing out and developing the powers and freedom of the individual , under the stimulation of great ideas .
To become all that we can become as individuals is our most glorious birthright , and only as we realise it do we become , at the same time , of great price to the community .
From individual minds are born all great discoveries and revolutions of thought .
New ideas may be in the air and more or less present in many minds , but it is always an individual who at the last takes the creative step and enriches mankind with the living germ-thought of a new era of opinion .
All influences , therefore , and especially all laws and institutions which tend to lose the individual in the crowd , and bring down the exceptional to the level of the average , are contrary to the irresistible order of nature , and can lead only to disaster in the individual and in the State .
I should not omit to mention the marvellous secondary effects of scientific discoveries upon the mental progress of the civilised world which are being wrought by their practical applications to the cheapening of paper , and to improvements of the automatic printing-press , which , combined with the linking together of all parts of the earth by a network of telegraphic 1905 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
communications , put it in the power of even the poor of the realm to read daily the news of the world , and for a few shillings to provide themselves with a library of classical works .
Of scarcely less educational influence upon the public mind are the new methods of photography and mechanical reproduction , by which pictures of current events and the portraits of those who are making contemporary history , and also copies of the world 's masterpieces of painting and of sculpture , are widely disseminated with the cheap newspapers and magazines among the mass of the people .
I have not spoken of the influence of science upon its own students , nor of the place it should take in general education .
My purpose has been to point out the profound changes which science has wrought upon the habits of thinking of the general public , who themselves have no personal knowledge of science methods , changes which have revolutionised every activity of the human mind .
Golden will be the days when , through a reform of our higher education , every man going up to the Universities will have been from his earliest years under the stimulating power of a personal training in practical elementary science ; all his natural powers being brought to a state of high efficiency , and his mind actively proving all things under the vivifying influence of freedom of opinion .
Throughout life he will be on the best terms with Nature , living a longer and a fuller life under her protecting care , and through the further disclosures of herself , rising successively to higher levels of being and of knowledge .
As a corollary to what I have said , the place that science should take in general education , very briefly considered , will suitably occupy the few minutes which remain .
I do not wish to speak of science as a specialised subject of advanced study , nor of technical education , which is obviously of supreme importance to all who look forward to finding their life-work in manufacturing and industrial pursuits , or of entering such professions as architecture and civil and electrical engineering .
The importance to every man of a practical acquaintance with elementary science is obvious .
Would it be thought possible that any nation could act so absurdly as to teach its children other languages , and leave them in complete ignorance of the tongue of the land in which they would have to pass their lives ?
Would it not then be incredible , if it had not become a too familiar fact , that the public schools have , until recently , excluded all teaching of the science of nature from their scheme of studies , though man 's relation to nature is more intimate than to his ftdlow countryman ?
We live , move , and have our being in nature ; we cannot emigrate from it , for we are part of it .
Yet our higher education leaves men , who in other directions are 114 Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
[ Nov. 30 , well informed , much as deaf-mutes in the presence of Nature .
They do not hear her most imperative warnings , and can only get on haltingly in their everyday intercourse with the natural forces to which their lives are subjected , by means of the arbitrary signs of empirical custom .
The recent introduction of some amount of science-teaching in our higher schools is quite inadequate , alike in kind and in degree .
It can be only through a reform of the scheme of their examinations by the Universities , that we can hope to see Science take the equal part with the humanities in general education to which she is entitled .
The place of science in general education may be considered under two different aspects : the intrinsic value of the teaching of science as a means of enlarging the powers of the mind ; and secondly , its relative value and place as compared with the teaching of the classics .
The elements of the science of nature , when properly taught , have a claim to a very high place in early general education , since Nature is always close about us as a living intelligence and power , which responds to the questions put to her by experiment .
The young mind finds itself no longer in the realms of the dead , deciphering from the inscriptions on their tombstones the history and opinions of past generations , invaluable as is such knowledge in its proper place , but in the open of light and life , where Nature holds her school , taking all things , great and small , as the object-lessons of her teaching .
Two faculties of the mind which it is of the highest importance , especially in early youth , to enlarge and develop by exercise , are wonder and imagination .
Under the ordinary premature language-teaching of the Grammar Schools , even the wonder and imagination natural to young minds become so stunted in their growth , as to remain more or less dormant throughout life .
On the other hand , natural science brings them into full activity and greatly stimulates their development .
Nature 's fairy tales , as read through the microscope , the telescope , and the spectroscope , or spelt out to us from the blue by waves of ether , are among the most powerful of the exciting causes of wonder in its noblest form ; when free from terror it becomes the minister of delight and of mental stimulation .
And surely the master-creations of poetry , music , sculpture and painting , alike in mystery and grandeur cannot surpass the natural epics and scenes of the heavens above and of the earth beneath , in their power of firing the imagination , which indeed has taken its most daring and enduring flights under the earlier and simpler conditions of human life when men lived in closer contact with nature , and in greater quiet , free from the deadening rush of modern society .
Of supreme value is the exercise of the imagination , 1905 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
115 that lofty faculty of creating and weaving imagery in the mind , and of giving subjective reality to its own creations , which is the source of the initial impulses to human progress and development , to all inspiration in the Arts , and to discovery in science .
Further , elementary science , taught practically with the aid of experiment during a boy 's early years , cannot fail to develop the faculty of observation .
However keen in vision , the \lt ; eyes see little without training in observation by the subtle exercise of the mind behind them .
From the humblest weed to the stars in their courses , all nature is a great object-lesson for the acquirement of the power of rapid and accurate noting of minute and quickly-changing aspects .
Such an early training in the simpler methods of scientific observation , confers upon a man for life the possession of an inexhaustible source of interest and delight , and no mean advantage in the keen competitions of the intellectual activities of the present day .
Training in the use of the eyes develops , at the same time , alertness of the intelligence , and suppleness of the mind in dealing with new problems , which , in after-life , will be of great value in facing unforeseen difficulties of all kinds , which are constantly arising .
Science , practically taught , does more , for , under the constant control of his inferential conclusions by the unbending facts of direct experiment , the pupil gradually acquires the habit of reasoning correctly from the observations he makes .
In particular , he learns the most precious lesson of great caution in forming his opinions , for he finds how often reasoning , which appeared to him to be flawless , was not really so , for it led him to wrong conclusions .
Further , from the constant study of nature , the student comes so to look at things as almost unconsciously to discriminate between those which are essential and those which are only accidental , and so , gradually , to acquire the faculty of classing the facts of experience , and of putting them in their proper places in a consistent system or theory .
Are there any other studies , it may be asked , by which , in the same time , a young mind could develop an equally enlarged capacity for correct reasoning , and acquire so wide an outlook ?
Yet , notwithstanding the immense intrinsic value of its teaching , science is but one of the studies which are necessary for a wide and liberal education .
Intellectual culture , or , in other words , the whole mind working at its best , requires , besides the training of all its powers harmoniously by the study of nature , an acquaintance with many other kinds of knowledge , especially of human history and the development of human thought , and of the human arts .
Humanistic studies and experimental science are equally essential , and , indeed , complement each other .
Either alone leaves the mind unequally developed , and its whole attitude one-sided , VOL. LXXVII.\#151 ; A. K 116 Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
[ Nov. 30 , and so produces a narrow type of mind , which is incapable of taking a wide view even of its own side of thought , and has but little sympathy with any subject outside it .
In the scheme of a liberal education , literature and languages , which include the habit of clear thinking in suitable words , should have a large place .
It must , I think , be conceded that the languages of ancient Greece and Rome , which are highly developed for the conveyance of delicate shades of thought , still stand unsurpassed as means of training in thinking in association with correct expression , while , at the same time , they feed the mind with the great ideas , and the heroic deeds of the past .
In the methods of study of these languages , as actually carried out in the public schools , surely great reforms are possible .
The complaint of the classicist , John Milton , who had been himself a schoolmaster , in his ' Tractate on Education/ written about twenty years before the foundation of the Royal Society , is urgently true to-day .
He wrote : " We do amiss to spend seven or eight years merely in scraping together so much miserable Latin and Greek as might be learned otherwise easily and delightfully in one year .
" Later on Evelyn made a similar complaint .
" At most schools , " he wrote , " there is a casting away of six or seven years in the learning of words only , and that , too , very imperfectly .
" Quite recently , the number of years usually given to Latin and Greek in the public schools has been shown by a striking experiment to be greatly excessive .
Last March , the Minister of Education gave an account in the Prussian Chamber of the so-called " reform schools , " in which the study of the classics is begun for Latin at twelve , and for Greek not until the age of fourteen , with the encouraging result that , of 125 pupils who presented themselves for the leaving examination , only four failed to pass , and , of these four , three succeeded three months later .
Experience showed that , as the result of beginning Latin and Greek at a later age , the interest of the pupils in their work was much keener , and their progress much more rapid .
Improved methods of teaching the classical languages which would permit of the beginning of the study of them at a later age , would leave ample time for an early training in experimental science , which must soon come to be recognised as an essential part of all education .
In future , no Grammar or Higher School should be considered as properly provided for unless furnished with the necessary apparatus for teaching experimentally the fundamental principles of mechanics , * physics , and biology .
The pupils should have the use of a small astronomical telescope , and of microscopes for biological work .
Such apparatus and instruments can now be purchased at a very small cost .
1905 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
Clearly , it is only by such a widening of the general education common to all who go up to the Universities , before specialisation is allowed , that the present " gap between scientific students careless of literary form , and classical students ignorant of scientific method " can be filled up , and the young men who will in the future take an active part in public affairs , as statesmen and leaders of thought , can be suitably prepared to introduce and encourage in the country that fuller knowledge and appreciation of science which are needed for the complete change of the national attitude on all science questions , which is absolutely necessary if we are to maintain our high position and fulfil our destiny , as a great nation .
I now proceed to the award of the Medals .
Copley Medal .
The Copley Medal is awarded to Professor Dmitri Ivanovitch Mendeleeff , For .
Mem. R.S. , for his contributions to chemical and physical science .
Professor Mendeleeff , born at Tobolsk , in Siberia , in 1834 , stands high among the great philosophical chemists of the last century .
As early as 1856 he published his own conclusion that paramagnetic elements have , in general , smaller molecular volumes than diamagnetic elements , and confirmed Avogadro 's view that electro-positive elements have larger molecular volumes than electro-negative ones : both of them results specially interesting in connection with modern views of molecular structure .
At that time he had already assimilated and utilised the views of Laurent , Gerhardt , and Williamson on molecular constitution , which made such slow progress in general .
Since then , in the words of Dr. Thorpe ( 'Nature , ' June 27 , 1889 ) : " There is , in fact , no section of chemical science which he has not enriched by his contributions " \#151 ; mineralogy , chemical geology , organic chemistry , the nature and industrial importance of petroleum , but , above all , physical chemistry and chemical philosophy .
Quoting again from Dr. Thorpe : " His ' Principles of Chemistry , ' published in 1889 , and repeatedly reprinted , is a veritable treasure-house of ideas , from which investigators have constantly borrowed suggestions for new lines of research .
This book is one of the classics of chemistry ; its place in the history of science is as well assured as the ever-memorable work of Dalton .
" In the course of its preparation he developed the great generalisation known as the Periodic Law of the Elements , with which his name will ever remain most closely associated , especially as a weapon for predicting new elements , and for which he has received the Davy Medal of this Society , as also have Newlands and Lothar Meyer for their independent advances in the same direction .
118 Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
[ Nov. 30 , This law has changed the face of chemistry , by imparting to the study of its numerous independent elements that close inter-connection which is a characteristic of advanced physical theories .
Royal Medals .
A Royal Medal is awarded to Professor John Henry Poynting , F.R.S. , on account of his researches in physical science , especially in connection with the law of gravitation and the theories of electro-dynamics and radiation .
Professor Poynting is distinguished both in theoretical and experimental physics .
His memoir , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1884 , " On the Transfer of Energy in the Electro-magnetic Field , " contains the fundamental proposition which is now universally known as Poynting 's Theorem .
It was followed in 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1885 , by a paper " On the Connection between Electric Current and the Electric and Magnetic Inductions in the Surrounding Field , " which works out the current circuit on the supposition of motion of what are now called Faraday Tubes .
These papers served greatly to elucidate Maxwell 's theory , and give a representation of the physical nature of the electric field which is now widely utilised .
His long-continued experimental and theoretical researches on the Constant of Gravitation and on the Mean Density of the Earth are reported in a paper in the ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1892 , and in the Adams ' Prize Essay for 1893 .
Closely related to this subject is an experiment in search- of a directive action of one quartz crystal on another , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1899 , which , though leading to a negative result , is a model of the application of refined methods to a physical research of great delicacy .
His recent paper , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1903 , " On Radiation in the Solar System , its Effect on Temperature , and its Pressure on Small Bodies , " is of great interest and significance in cosmical physics .
He is the author of various theoretical papers on physico-chemical subjects , such as change of state and osmotic pressure , which are conspicuous for originality of conception and clearness of exposition .
The other Royal Medal is awarded to Professor Charles Scott Sherrington , F.R.S. , for his work on the Central Nervous System , especially in relation to Reflex Action .
Professor Sherrington has published a series of important papers upon the structure and function of the brain and spinal cord .
In the earlier of these he chiefly investigated the course of the several groups of nerve fibres by means of the degeneration method .
Passing from the study of structure to that of function , he discovered that removal of the fore brain causes a widespread rigidity of certain muscles , which he called decerebrate rigidity .
In 1905 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
the state of decerebrate rigidity , the ordinarily observed reflexes of the body become profoundly altered , and a study of the normal and abnormal reflexes led him to the observation that contraction of one muscle is commonly associated with inhibition of its antagonist .
Upon this he formulated the law of the Eeciprocal Action of Antagonistic Muscles , which is now accepted as of fundamental importance in the co-ordination of muscular movement .
A further study of reflex actions led him to lay down certain general principles with regard to them .
One principle deserves especial mention , namely , that hurtful stimuli applied to the skin produce a different form of reflex from that given by stimuli which are not hurtful .
This has served as a basis for further investigation on the character of the nerve impulses conveyed by different nerve-endings , on the course taken by the impulses , and on their central connections .
In recent years a considerable amount of work has been done in mapping out the areas of the skin supplied by each of the cranial and spinal nerves .
This work , essential both to physiology and to clinical medicine , received its chief impetus and most weighty contribution from the careful and detailed observations of Professor Sherrington .
The researches of Professor Sherrington and Dr. Griinbaum , on the localisation of the excitable areas in the cortex of the cerebral hemispheres in the higher apes , having resulted in placing the " motor area " in this animal entirely in front of the central sulcus .
The result is now generally accepted as true also for the brain of man\#151 ; a point of great importance in the surgery of the brain .
Professor Sherrington 's researches have dealt with a number of subjects cognate with that of the central nervous system .
He has shed light on questions connected with the afferent nerves of skeletal muscle , the efferent nerves of the arrectores pilorum and of the cranial blood-vessels , the innervation of various viscera , the trophic centre of the fibres of the roots of the spinal nerves , the knee jerk , and with the physiology of vision .
Davy Medal .
The Davy Medal is awarded to Professor Albert Ladenburg , on account of his researches in organic chemistry , especially in connection with the synthesis of natural alkaloids .
Thirty years ago , when the validity of Kekule 's famous formula for benzene was the subject of much discussion , Ladenburg was the first to prove , by laborious research , the important proposition that the six hydrogen atoms in the hydrocarbon are similarly situated and discharge the same functions , and hence that three and only three ^-substitution derivatives can exist .
120 Anniversary Address by Sir William Huggins .
[ Nov. 30 , He has also devoted many years to the study of the natural alkaloids .
This pioneer work , attended by many experimental difficulties , was rewarded by success in the synthesis , for the first time , in 1886 , of an optically active compound identical with the alkaloid coniine existing in the hemlock plant .
Since that time he has largely added to our knowledge of the chemistry of hyoscyamine , atropine , and other alkaloids of the mydriatic class .
Hughes Medal .
The Hughes Medal is awarded to Professor Augusto Righi , for his experimental researches in electrical science , including electric vibrations .
Professor Righi has been for many years a prominent and active worker in the sciences of light , electricity , and magnetism .
Among the subjects which have engaged his attention are the Hall effect , and the change of electric conductivity of bismuth in a magnetic field .
At an early period he carried out an elaborate investigation on the reflection of light at the surface of a magnetised body , repeating and extending Kerr 's observations with more powerful apparatus ; in particular , he showed how the amount of the rotation of the plane of polarisation depends upon the wave-length of the light .
A valuable series of papers related to phenomena produced by the ultraviolet rays , including the first discovery of the discharge of negative electricity from a freshly polished not previously electrified zinc surface under their influence .
He has also investigated the potential in the neighbourhood of the cathode in a Crookes ' tube , and made many experiments on the spark discharge in gases , and the action of the Rontgen rays .
His work on electric radiation has been collected in a book , ' L'Ottica delle oscillazioni elettriche , ' Bologna , 1897 .
He rendered fundamental service to exact experiment on this subject by simplifying the practical conditions of the problem ; and he applied his improved apparatus to numerous investigations on the behaviour of electro-magnetic waves , of short and therefore manageable wave-length , under very varied conditions , on their absorption , polarisation , reflection and refraction , and on the behaviour of dielectrics in the field of radiation .
This work entitles him to a high place among those who developed the lines of experimental investigation opened up by the great discoveries of Hertz .
More recently he has contributed substantially to the study of the phenomena of radio-activity and the related ionisations .
As I address you now for the last time , I wish to say how fully I have 1905 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir Huggins .
appreciated the honour\#151 ; the crowning honour\#151 ; which can fall to the lot of but few Fellows , which I have received at your hands .
Most deeply have I felt the great responsibility associated with this honour , and during a not uneventful period , it has been my most earnest endeavour to uphold , as far as it lay in my power , the high traditions of our great and ancient Society .
In bidding you farewell , I desire to express to the entire body of the Fellows my gratitude for their invariable consideration and courtesy , and in particular to the Officers who have served with me , my warm thanks for their efficient support and assistance , and for the thoughtful and prevenient attention by which they have sought to lighten the duties of my office .
I rejoice that in the hands of my probable successor , a man of world-wide eminence in science , the interests and the reputation of the Society are eminently safe .
Farewell !
Floreat Regcilis Societas Lo !

