Experiments to ascertain the State in which Spirit exists in fermented Liquors : with a Table exhibiting the relative Proportion of pure Alcohol contained in several Kinds of Wine and some other Liquors .
By William Thomas Brand , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 13 , 1811 .
[ :Phil .
Trans. 1811 , p. 337 .
] An opinion having been entertained by many persons , that alcohol which has been distilled from wine does not exist ready formed in the liquor , but is generated during the process of distillation , Mr. Brand undertookl a repetition of Fabroni 's experiment , on which this opinion is principally founded ; but when he added four ounces of dry subearbonate of potash to eight fluid ounces of port , no alcohol w ; vas separated , although some of the same wine had previously been ascertained to yield one fifth part of alcohol by distillation .
When the same experiment was repeated on the same wine , to which one seventh part of alcohol had been previously added , still none was separated by subcarbonate of potash : but when so much as one third part had been added , then a very small proportion was found to float upon the surface after it had stood twenty-four hours .
When madeira or sherry were employed instead of port , the results were nearly the same .
Since the method of Fabroni failed of detecting the presence of alcohol , unless the quantity was very considerable , it became necessary to have recourse to some other method of proving or disproving the presence of it as a product of fermentation ; and Mr. Brand conceived , that if it were formed by the heat applied in distillation , the quantity should in that case be different when the same liquor was distilled at different temperatures .
In the first of four processes of distillation , port wine was made to acquire the heat of 200 ?
by addition of muriate of lime , and one half was quickly distilled over ; and in the last , an equal quantity of port was kept for five days at the temperature of 180 ?
, till half the quantity had passed over into the receiver ; but in all these experiments the specific gravities of the products were so nearly the same , that there did not appear to be any difference in the quantity of alcohol obtained .
Mr. Brand also attempted to separate alcohol from different kinds of wine by freezing ; but the cake of ice produced was spongy , and would not allow any portion of alcohol to separate from it .
The author having thus , to his satisfaction , proved the existence of alcohol ready formed in fermented liquors , undertook , in the next place , to ascertain the relative strength of different kinds of wine ; and he concludes the present communication with a Table , in which is expressed the proportion per cent. of alcohol contained in a given measure of the several liquors that he has examined .
In this table the alcohol obtained from Port varies from 21 to nearly 26 per cent. ; Madeira 19 to 24 ; Sherry not so much as 20 per cent. ; Claret from 13 to 16 ; Lisbon 19 ; M/ Iarsala nearly 26 ; Champagne from 11 to 13 ; Burgundy 12 to 14 ; Hock 9 to 14 ; Raisin wine 25k ; Currant wine 20 !
; Cider and Perry nearly 10 ; Ale nearly 9 per cent. ; good rum and brandy containing 53 per cent. of alcohol at the same standard of *825 specific gravity .

