Tab. I. Trans. No. 75 .
AE A Fig. I. G ABEF b BF B AF C C BE c T Tangent SC X. DC A MG N Parabola .
Numb. 75 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
Septemb .
18 .
1671 .
The CONTENTS .
A Supplement to what was publish't N. 73 .
of the Compression of Air under Water .
An Answer to Four Papers of Mr. Hobs , lately publish't .
New Observations of Spots in the Sun .
An Account touching Vegetable Excrescencies .
A Description of some Books : I. &amp; II .
Lectiones OPTICAE &amp; GEOMETRICAE , Auth. Isaaco Barrow ; together with a Mantissa of the same Author to some of those Lectures .
III .
A Continuation of the MEMORIES of M. Bernier concerning the Empire of the G. Mogol .
IV .
Historia &amp; Meteorologia INCENDII AETNAEI .
A.1669 .
Auth. Joh. Alph .
Borello .
Advertisement touching the Latin Version of part of these Transactions .
A Supplement to what was publish't N. 73 .
of the Compression of Air under Water .
AT the desire of a particular Friend , the Scheme in Tab. I. Fig. I. was drawn , and is now permitted to be made public at the request of another , by way of Supplement to what was said in the Philosophical Transactions N. 73 .
of the Compression of Air under Water : In which Figure ED is made to represent the Tube , =x .
AB the distance of the upper part of the Tube from the surface of the water above or under it , =b .
FC the depth of the water from its surface to the bottom of the Air within the Tube , =a .
BC that part of it which remains filled with Air within the Water .
CD the rest thereof which is full of water .
And any two of the three first , x , b , and a , being given , the other is known , and consequently the rest also .
For , if by the incumbent weight of 33 feet depth in water , the Air in the tube is comprest into half the space it filled before ; then the said 33 feet depth of Water equals the weight or pressure of the incumbent Air on the surface of the Water .
Now , as the weight or pressure of the Air on the surface of the Water , is to the Depth of the Water from the surface thereof to the bottom of the Air within the Tube ; so is the Length of the Tube filled with Air , to the length thereof filled with Water : That is , according to the said Experiments , putting z for 33 , or whatever , at other times or places , shall be found to be the weight or pressure of the incumbent Air on the surface of the Water , ( for it is not always the same exactly ; ) z. a : : a~ b. a2+ ab / z= CD .
And therefore a 2~ ab + za ~ zb / z= x. Wherefore z/ z+axa= b. And ~ : b2~2zb+z2+4z x : ~bz/ z= a. And therefore a and b being given , x is known to be the first aequation ; And a and x being given , b is known by the second ; And b and x being given , a is known by the third .
The Horizontal line BFBAF is substituted for GABEFb , when the Close end of the Tube is not even with the surface of the Water , to avoid the breach cC = bB =1/ 4z b2 in the length of the Tube .
Note , That the Perpendicular immersion of the Tube or Cylinder , spoken of in the said Transactions N. 73 .
is not to be understood of the Depth of the bottom or open end in the water , but of the Depth of the Air within the Tube or Cylinder from the surface of the water , viz. FC , not FD .

