An Appendix to a Paper on the Effects of the Colchicum autumnale on Gout .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read April 25 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 262 .
] In the paper on this subject , lately read to the Society , the author hoped to establish two facts which seemed to him of primary importance ; first , that this medicine can be received into the circulation without permanent mischief ; and secondly , that its beneficial effects upon gout are produced through that medium ; and hence the sudden relief it gives can , he thinks , be readily explained .
The criterion by which he judges of the influence of the medicine is the pulse , which he has found to be invariably diminished ten or twenty beats in about twelve hours after it is taken ; and since this effect is also produced when the same medicine is injected into a vein , he was satisfied that in the former instance the lowering of the pulse depends upon its arrival into the circulation , and not upon the state of the stomach .
The author has since been induced to try whether the effects of a larger quantity injected into the veins would also correspond with those produced by an overdose taken into the stomach .
One hundred and sixty drops of the infusion of colchicum before employed , were now injected into the circulation of a dog .
He instantly lost all power of motion ; the breathing became slow , the pulse hardly to be felt .
In ten minutes it was 84 ; in twenty minutes at 60 ; in an hour at 115 , with the respiration so quick as scarcely to be counted .
In two hours the pulse was 150 , and very weak .
In the mean time the animal was purged ; and he vomited , first a bilious fluid , and then bloody mucus ; and after lingering in an extremely languid state five hours , expired .
On dissection , the internal coat of the stomach and intestines were found inflamed in a , greater or lesser degree universally .
The facts here adduced , says the author , go as far as it is possible to prove that the action of Colchicum autumnale on the different parts of the body is through the medium of the circulation , and not in consequence of its immediate effects on the stomach .

