*XX .
Experiments for ascertaining the Point of Mercurial Congelation .
By Mr. Thomas Hutchins , Governor of Albany Fort , in Hudson 's Bay ~ .
Read April 10 , 1783 .
THE following experiments , to determine the freezing point of quicksilver , were made by the direction of the Royal Society , at Albany Fort in Hudson 's Bay , situated in the latitude of 52~ 14~ North and 82~ West longitude from Greenwich .
The instruments used in these experiments were simply thermometers , except the apparatus F and G , furnished by Mr. CAVENDISH , and of these a more satisfactory idea will be formed from the annexed drawing than could be conveyed by words alone ; I have , therefore , only specified a few particulars , so that each instrument may be distinguished from another .
I have compared the instruments with each other for several weeks in the various temperatures , to adjust , with the greater precision , the relative degrees on the scales ; which was the more necessary as they differed very much .
The five first experiments were made exactly according to the directions sent to me by the Society , in order to obtain the point of congelation .
The two succeeding ones are also made in the manner they directed , to endeavour to ascertain the greatest degree of contraction mercury is capable of ; then follow two ~ This paper having been for some time mislaid , could not be printed in its turn .
This accounts for the double paging and signatures .
experiments made in a different manner by my own suggestion ; and , lastly , an account of mercury frozen in the open air without the aid of any artificial cold , which will be found to corroborate the preceding experiments , and determine the exact point of congelation to be at 40~ below the cipher .
I have been careful to mark down every circumstance attending the experiments , and have added a few observations to each of them , to elucidate any uncommon phenomenon that occurred .
If these experiments should be agreeable to the Royal Society , the merit must be attributed to the excellent instructions they transmitted to me , which left me nothing to do but to follow them ; yet I cannot avoid doing justice to the ingenious Dr. BLACK , Professor of Chemistry at Edinburgh , who favoured me with some remarks on the experiments I made in 1775 to freeze quicksilver , and first suggested this method of ascertaining the point of congelation , which I had the honour of communicating to the Royal Society by the means of SAMUEL WEGG , esq .
whose attention to promote the views of the Society can only be equalled by that liberality of sentiment and great goodness of heart which makes him encourage even the most feeble attempt than can in the least tend to the improvement of knowledge .
THOMAS HUTCHINS .
Dr. BLACK'S Letter referred to above .
DEARSI R , Edinburgh , 5th Oct. 1779 .
I HAVE read with great pleasure the experiments made at Hudson 's Bay , upon the congelation of mercury , and observe that the author has succeeded perfectly in effecting it ; but could not determine with precision what degree of cold was necessary to produce it .
This , however , does not surprise me , as I have always thought it evident , from Professor BRAUN'S experiments , that this degree of cold cannot be discovered conveniently by congealing the mercury of the thermometer itself .
I shall not here give my reasons for this opinion ; they would lengthen out this letter too much ; I shall only propose what appears to me the proper manner of making the experiment , which is as follows : provide a few wide and short tubes of thin glass , sealed at one end and open at the other ; the wideness of these tubes may be from half to three-quarters of an inch , and the length of them about three inches .
Put an inch or an inch and an half depth of mercury into one of these tubes , and plunging the bulb of the thermometer into the mercury , set the tube with the mercury and the thermometer in it into a freezing mixture , which should be made for this purpose in a common tumbler or water-glass ; and , N. B. in making a freezing mixture with snow and spirit of nitre , the quantity of the acid should never be so great as to dissolve the whole of the snow , but only enough to reduce it to the consistence of Panada .
When the mercury in the wide tube is thus set in the freezing mixture , it ( the mercury ) must be stirred gently and frequently with the bulb of the thermometer ; and if the cold be sufficiently strong , it will begin to congeal by coming thick and broasy like an amalgam .
As soon as this is observed , the thermometer should be examined without lifting it out of the congealing mercury ; and I have no doubt , that in every experiment , thus made , with the same mercury , the instrument will always point to the same degree , provided it has been made and graduated with accuracy .
I am , DEAR SIR , Your faithful humble servant , JOSEPH BLACK .
To Mr. ANDREW GRAHAM , Edinburgh .
Thermometers described , A. Represents a mercurial thermometer , with an air-bulb at the top , graduated 628 degrees below the cipher , and marked at every second degree .
Makers NAIRNE and BLOUNT ; the scale box-wood .
B. Another mercurial thermometer graduated to 526~ below the cipher , each line representing 2~ , made by NAIRNE and BLOUNT ; the scale box-wood .
C. Is a fine mercurial thermometer , with an air-bulb at the top graduated 2300~ below the cipher , each division containing 5~ ; the scale made of box , by THROUGHTON .
D. A small spirit thermometer on a box scale , made by THROUGHTON , and divided to every single degree down to 160~ below the cipher .
E. Another spirit thermometer , by the same maker ( THROUGHTON ) graduated 90~ below the cipher ; the scale box .
F. A small mercurial thermometer , on an ivory scale , divided at every 5~ between 220~ above and 250~ below~ the cipher ; made by NAIRNE and BLOUNT .
G. Another mercurial thermometer , every way like the last mentioned , except only reaching from 215~ above to 250~ below the cipher ; by NAIRNE and BLOUNT .
H. A spirit thermometer , made by NAIRNE and BLOUNT , with which I have made meteorological observations from the year 1774 .
Experiment I. made December 15 , 1781 .
Time per Thermom. ApparaSpirit Watch .
below 0 .
tus .
Thermom. Remarks and Occurrences .
h. ~~ 10 44 15 244 40 Removed the instruments back to the 3d mixture .
10 44 35 246 40 10 45 0 248 40 10 46 0 247 40 10 47 0 247 40 10 48 0 2461/ 2 40 10 49 0 246 40 10 50 0 246 40 10 51 0 2451/ 2 40 10 52 0 2451/ 2 40 10 53 0 244 40 10 55 0 244 40 10 55 20 244 40 Went away , to warm myself .
11 40 114 38 Returned .
11 90 54 37 11 9 50 48 37 11 11 0 40 36 11 12 0 39 351/ 2 Put in the spirit thermometer ( D ) .
11 13 0 24 11 13 40 38 351/ 2 Took out the apparatus ; the quicksilver was 11 14 0 38 261/ 2 perfectly fluid , and the enclosed thermometer ( F ) was easily withdrawn .
Remarks and observations on the first experiment .
Finding the thermometer on Thursday evening , the 14th of December , was 18~ below the cipher , I concluded the morning would afford me an opportunity to make an attempt to fix the point at which quicksilver begins to freeze ; I therefore put a bottle of spirit .
nitri fortis upon the top of the house in open air , that it might be of the same temperature when it was to be used .
The thermometer had been hung up before , three weeks , in the open air , to compare their scales .
At 7 o'clock in the morning of the 15th , the thermometers were about 23~ below nought ; I therefore made preparations for the experiments , getting the quicksilver out into the air , providing glass tumblers for mixing the nitrous acid with the snow , &amp;c. I put as much quicksilver into a glass cylinder as ( when the thermometer ( F ) was introduced ) just filled the bulbous part of the cylinder ; the scale of the thermometer did not reach the length of the tube by about three inches ; and the bare part of the tube was wound round with red worsted in two places , to a thickness sufficient to fill the upper part of the orifice of the cylinder in order to exclude the external air : now , as the quicksilver only filled the bulb , there was a space of near half an inch left empty between the quicksilver and the nearest piece of worsted , so that , by inclining the apparatus , the quicksilver readily ran out of the bulb into the other part of the cylinder .
This was done with an intention to discover the more easily when the quicksilver ceased to be fluid ; for , by taking the instrument out of the freezing mixture , and elevating the lower end , the quicksilver , if not frozen , would run into the void space .
The experiment was made in the open air , on the top of the Fort , with only a few deer-skins sewed together , placed to windward for a shelter : there was plenty of snow ( eighteen inches deep ) upon the works , and the thermometers were close at hand .
In thrusting the thermometer ( F ) into the quicksilver , the instrument rose to the cipher , but soon began to descend again ; but being unwilling to lose time , I struck the apparatus into the snow , the sooner to bring it to the temperature of the air .
The table will fully explain the process .
I was in hopes , by shifting the instruments into three fresh mixtures , I should have been able to have produced a greater degree of cold than by one only ; yet it did not .
I added more spirit of nitre , but without effect .
At 10 h. 3~ 35~ I took out the apparatus , and raised the bulbous end to make the quicksilver run , but found it was frozen , so that it did not alter its figure in the least .
I then placed it in the mixture , where it contined till 10 h. 11~ , when I made another trial as before , but without perceiving any alteration : however , to be more certain of its being frozen , I proposed to take out the thermometer ; but all the strength in my fingers could not move it in the least , so that myself and officers , who stood by , were convinced it was frozen fast .
I then made another mixture in hopes to augment the cold , and make the enclosed thermometer ( F ) descend ; however , seeing no alteration , I went into the house to warm myself , and on my return found it had fallen 3~ .
I tried the coldness of the mixture by different spirit thermometers , and afterwards shifted the instruments into the mixture from whence I had taken them ; but this diminished the cold by the thermometer , so that I re-placed them again in the third mixture , and the quicksilver in the thermometer descended again to its former point 448~ .
I continued observing it some minutes , when the cold obliged me a second time to retire , and on my return found both the thermometer and apparatus rising : on dipping a spirit thermometer into the mixture , I found it had a considerable degree of coldness , and both the apparatus and mercurial thermometers were nearly equal .
I then took them out , and the quicksilver in the cylinder was as fluid as when it was first poured in .
I should have observed , that during the time I was pouring in the spirit of nitre at the beginning of the operation , I was so engaged in mixing it with the snow , that I did not see the thermometer in the apparatus sink to 40~ , which must have been very sudden , because I was but one minute before I observed it I could observe no alteration in the quicksilver in the cylinder when it was frozen , and intending to make more experiments , I was unwilling at this time to break the glass .
The time was taken by a good watch which shows seconds , and ( which however I apprehend can be of little consequence ) about 5~ 10~ too fast by apparent time .
I had two assistants ; one to repeat audibly every second , and the other to write down the time and the observations as fast as I made them .
The observations were taken down with a pencil , but copied fair with ink into my note book : they were compared the same day the experiment had been made , to avoid mistakes ; and these remarks were written at the same time , whilst the remembrance of them was yet strong on the mind .
The thermometers used on this occasion were those marked A and F. Experiment II .
made December 16 , 1782 .
Time per Thermom. ApparaSpirit Watch .
below 0 .
tus .
Thermom. Remarks and Occurrences .
h. ~~ 11 7 40 37 47 11 80 37 38 11 8 20 37 38 11 8 40 37 38 231/ 2 11 9 15 37 371/ 2 Examined apparatus , quicksilver in the cylinder 11 9 30 37 37 perfectly fluid .
11 15 0 36 35 23 This experiment was made with the same instruments as the preceding , and the quicksilver which was left yesterday in the cylinder was the same now employed .
I was rather unfortunate in making too small a quantity of the freezing mixture at the beginning , which obliged me to make repeated additions to it : by this means the operation was not only retarded , but sometimes it even undid what had been done ; for in pouring in the nitrous acid it was unavoidable but part of it should come in contact with the bulbs of the instruments before it was mixed with snow .
In this case it never failed making the thermometers rise suddenly much higher than where they stood before the spirit was added ; and at length it only descended to 206~ , which is not half so low as on the preceding day , though the temperature of the air was ten degrees colder ( viz. 34~ ) : yet it is remarkable , that though the thermometer was so much higher , the apparatus was sunk more than twice as low as the day before ; for after having been long stationary at 40~ , it sunk to 95~ .
I then made a fresh mixture , but it had no effect any way during three quarters of an hour I attended to it afterwards .
During this idle interval I made the third experiment .
Finding no alteration , I went down to breakfast , and on my return was surprised to find the quicksilver in the apparatus thermometer had subsided into the bulb , and the standard thermometer had been very low ( how low I cannot tell ) , and was rising briskly .
The spirit thermometer also showed the mixture had a less degree of cold than before .
To be certain that the quicksilver in the apparatus thermometer was in the bulb , I took the apparatus out of the mixture , and examined it minutely for half a minute , till I was quite certain of it ; and also that the quicksilver in the cylinder was frozen , and it is remarkable , it did not liquify in all that time .
The observations were made with the greatest attention , and ( on every particular occasion ) noted down as quick as possible .
the time by the watch , and was the effect of chance ; for the first freezing mixture , which had been used in the second experiment , standing in the glass close to me ( and the other instruments being long stationary , did not require particular attention ) , I took down the thermometer ( G ) and charged its cylinder with quicksilver , as in the other examples , and suspended it in the old mixture , together with the mercurial thermometer ( B ) and a spirit thermometer ; the mixture seemed to have lost much of its coldness , as appeared by the thermometers .
It seemed very extraordinary to me , that the apparatus , after having been so long stationary at 43~ , should yet contain fluid quicksilver ; but both myself and assistant thought it was thicker than ordinary , as it did not run freely , but seemingly in pieces ( not globules ) : however we put it back again into the mixture , and set it by as of no further use ; but returning after breakfast , we found it was firmly frozen , so as to give no appearance of fluidity though the included thermometer was only at 40~ , which I look upon to be the exact freezing point of quicksilver ; and then the congelation was in fact begun before , and effected by only a longer continuance in the same degree of cold .
It may be necessary to mention , that the space between the bottom of the ivory scale to the bulb of the thermometer ( F ) which made part of the apparatus used in the second experiment , was two inches nine-tenths ; and when taken with a pair of compasses ( dividers ) with one foot placed at the cipher 0 on the graduated scale , the other extended to 148~ if measured upwards , and to 165~ if measured downwards , for the divisions were unequal .
Experiment IV .
made January 7 , 1782 .
Time per Thermom. ApparaSpirit Watch .
below 0 .
tus .
Thermom. Remarks and Occurrences .
h. ' ' ' 11 52 30 53 38 27 11 53 0 46 38 27 Found the quicksilver wholly thawed in the cylinder 11 53 30 42 37 27 11 54 0 40 37 261/ 2 11 54 30 39 37 261/ 2 11 55 0 39 37 261/ 2 11 55 30 39 37 261/ 2 11 56 0 39 37 261/ 2 11 56 30 38 36 26 This experiment was made with the mercurial thermometer ( A ) and the apparatus ( F ) as in the first and second experiments .
The day was clear , with little wind at W. by S. or W. S. W. which I have observed to be generally the case in this country in the coldest weather .
The thermometers at 8 o'clock were as follows , according to the rotation of the letters from ( A ) to ( G ) , 39~1/ 2 , 36~1/ 2 , 35~ , 25~ , 25~ , 34~1/ 2 , 34~ below the cipher .
The apparatus thermometer ( F ) , after standing at 42~ and 41~1/ 2 for a considerable time , sunk at once to 77~ , not gradually or by jumps , but suddenly , as a weight falls .
The great descent of the quicksilver in the index thermometer ( A ) to 440~ in the first freezing mixture I impute to the coldness of the weather , but was surprised to find it did not sink more than 10~ lower in the second mixture ; and in the third it did not reach so low as in the preceding , which , indeed , might be accounted for by the air growing warmer as the sun approached the meridian .
At 10 h. 6~1/ 2 I poured some of the first mixture into the tumbler where the instruments were immersed in the second , but found it weakened it ; I therefore mixed a fresh one at 10 h. 16~ .
It is however remarkable , that after pouring in the first mixture on the second , the apparatus , which had risen a little before , sunk suddenly into the bulb .
I have marked its progress as fast as I could catch it .
Another extraordinary circumstance in this experiment is , that the mercurial thermometer ( A ) should not subside lower in the third than in the second mixture ; whereas the spirit thermometer showed an equal degree of cold , while the quicksilver in the apparatus thermometer was in the bulb .
At 11 h. 21~ I took the apparatus out to examine it , and , by shaking it in my hand , all of a sudden some of the quicksilver in the cylinder liquified ; the concussion perhaps dissolved its solidity , for it was not above a minute out of the mixture .
Wondering much at this unexpected phenomenon , as the quicksilver in the thermometer did not rise , I put it into the mixture again immediately ; but finding the enclosed thermometer showed no alteration , my curiosity determined me to examine it again ; therefore , about four minutes after , I took it out a second time , and found the surface of the quicksilver in the cylinder was liquified about one-eighth of the whole quantity , as near as I could guess ; the rest formed a solid ball , including the bulb of the thermometer , which easily accounts for the quicksilver in that instrument remaining stationary .
Wishing to observe the whole process , and the cold being too severe for the same persons to stand in the open air for so long a time , I desired one os my officers , with an assistant , to mark down the observations at the times I went to warm myself , but by no means to make any alterations in my absence ; by this means the observations were continued regularly for near four hours .
At the end of the experiments the thermometers ( B ) , ( C ) , ( D ) , and ( G ) , stood as follows , 18~1/ 2 , 15~ , 9~1/ 2 , 15 , which shows the alteration in the temperature of the air from the beginning .
The thermometers ( A ) , ( D ) , and ( F ) , were used in the experiment .
ing point of quicksilver ; but the arrival of a gentleman , who wished to see it , induced me to repeat it again .
The weather was clear and serene , the wind about S.S.W. , and the several thermometers stood as follows , A 82~ , B 66~ , D 34~ , E 34~ , F 42~ , G 42~ , H 46~ , at seven o'clock in the morning ; and at eight o'clock they were A 78~ , B 114~ , D 29~1/ 2 , E 29~1/ 2 , F 29~1/ 2 , G 40~ , H 43~ ; yet it is remarkable , that quicksilver which was constantly exposed to the air in a saucer was not froze .
I impute the small descent of the quicksilver in the thermometers to the great degree of the cold in the atmosphere as in the sixth experiment , for there the effect was similar .
The most remarkable circumstance in this day 's operation was the sudden descent of the quicksilver in the apparatus thermometer , and the length of time it continued at 79~ before the quicksilver in the cylinder became solid .
The freezing mixture retaining an equal degree of cold for so long a time ( as appeared by the spirit thermometer ) , and the consequent stationary situation of all the instruments , I apprehend , proceeded from the continual cold in the circum-ambient air ; for at one o'clock the thermometers were risen but very little , being as follows , A 35~ , B 32~ , D 21~ , E 22~ , F 30~ , G 30~ , H 34~ , the wind blowing brisk from N. W. Experiment VI .
made January 11 , 1782 .
Time per Standard therm. C. Spirit Mercurial Watch .
spirit H. Mercurial therm. D. therm. B. Remarks and Occurrences .
h. ' ' ' 2 13 0 38 80 26 282 2 14 0 38 55 26 276 2 15 0 38 37 26 270 2 16 0 38 45 26 262 2 17 0 38 35 26 252 2 18 0 38 35 26 250 2 19 0 371/ 2 34 26 244 Took out all the instruments .
This singular experiment , though it did not answer the intention for which it was principally desigued , yet afforded many striking phenomenon which I shall mention in the course of these remarks .
After a cold night , the quicksilver in the thermometer was at 44~ below o at seven o'clock in the morning : thinking this great degree of cold was the most favourable opportunity of observing how low it was possible to make the quicksilver descend in the tube of the thermometers , I resolved to embrace it , and at the same time to observe the concurrent degrees with a spirit thermometer ; but as those sent out to me in 1781 ( D and E ) differed so much from the thermometers of quicksilver , I resolved to make use of another spirit thermometer made by NAIRNE and BLOUNT , and which was also furnished me by the Royal Society in 1774 .
With this instrument , which I call the standard , and marked with the letter H , I have made observations eight years , and found it agree very well with others made of quicksilver ; and the more readily to discover the variation of ( D ) , I employed it also in the same experiment ; but before I began the following observations were taken , the instruments all exposed to the open air , where they are continually kept .
The thermometers are marked from ( A ) to ( H ) , and the observations are regularly in that order .
h. ~ABCDEFGH 7 45 441/ 2 45 41 28 29 40 40 46 7 50 46 64 124 30 32 42 41 46 7 55 60 7 57 44 It is observable , that neither the quicksilver which was in the cylinders affixed to ( F ) and ( G ) , nor the other quicksilver which I constantly kept in the same place , some in a saucer , some in a gallipot , and some in a phial , showed the least appearance of congelation .
Being engaged in preparing for the ensuing experiment , I did not remark either the great descent or ascent of the quicksilver in ( C ) , which must have been very sudden , as my remarks are only five minutes asunder .
It may be necessary to mention , that the thermometer ( H ) was mounted on a scale the whole length ( as usual for meteorological observations ) , and ( C ) was armed with elastic gum from the bulb to about half or three-quarters of an inch above the surface of the freezing mixture .
The small descent of the quicksilver in ( C ) , and the little effect produced by moving it into a second mixture , made me at first apprehend the instrument was damaged ; I did not , however , take it out , but took another thermometer ( A ) , and put it also in the mixture ; but I find it was stationary at a higher degree than ( C ) : I therefore exchanged ( A ) for the mercurial thermometer ( B ) , which to my great surprise was stationary at 86~ , nor could it be got lower until the cold of the mixture diminishing it fell at once to 434~ , and a few minutes afterwards ( C ) fell to 360~ .
Imagining that a new mixture would now bring it very low , I made another , but in the mean time the instruments had risen greatly , and after standing in the fresh mixture ( C ) sunk to 374~ , and ( B ) to 438~ .
I should have mentioned , that these mixtures were double in quantity to those used in the former experiments ; instead of glass tumblers , they were made in pint basons .
I observed also , that the mixtures seemed to grow thin sooner than common ; for I always made them of the consistence of pap .
I added snow at times , to thicken it , but found it had very little effect , but rather decreased the cold .
It is with great diffidence I offer it as my opinion , that the temperature of the air was too cold , and that the quicksilver being nearly in a state of congelation before plunged into the mixture , was instantly frozen on putting the instruments into them ; and as the quicksilver in the tubes must have been of the same temperature with that in the bulbs of the thermometers before the experiment , I should imagine , that when the quicksilver in the bulb was frozen solid , it communicated an addition of cold to that in the tube , and froze it also , which prevented its subsiding as usual ; for in other cases , the contraction of the quicksilver , when solid in the bulb , was the cause of the quicksilver subsiding in the tube ; but then the latter was fluid , for the circumambient air was warmer than the degree at which quicksilver freezes , and the increased cold was applied only to the bulb .
The observations made before the experiment began , as related in the beginning of these remarks , show the quicksilver in the thermometer was congealing , and that ( A ) and ( C ) were actually frozen .
When I removed the thermometer ( A ) out of the mixture at 9 h. 5~ , I hung it up in the air , and have noted down , in a separate column on the right-hand side of the page , its appearances corresponding to the times put down on the other side of the page .
It is remarkable , that ( A ) and ( C ) have each an air-bubble blown at the top ; but the thermometer ( B ) had none .
Whilst the instruments were stationary in the foregoing experiment , I put the apparatus ( F ) and ( G ) severally into the mixture with the others ; the consequence was , that in two minutes the quicksilver in the cylinder was frozen solid ; but as there was a difference in the effect I shall be more particular .
At 9 h. 48~ put in apparatus ( F ) , when it stood in the air at 40~ or 41~ below 0 ; and at 9 h. 50~ took it out frozen solid , and the enclosed thermometer pointing still at 40~ or 41~ .
I then hung it up in the open air , and looked at it only now and then .
At 10 h. 47~ ( after being exposed to the air near an hour ) , I found only a small quantity of the surface of the quicksilver was fluid , the rest was a frozen globe resembling a ball of polished silver ; the thermometer enclosed was still at 40~ .
At 11 h. 4~ I observed a segment of a globe of solid quicksilver ; in the inside was a concavity made , I supposed , by the bulb of the thermometer .
The thermometer was still at 40~ , which undoubtedly is the freezing point of quicksilver , as in this instance part of it was frozen , and part solid .
I withdrew the thermometer , poured out the fluid quicksilver , and returned the thermometer into the cylinder , shortly after which it was at 37~ , and the frozen segment was then fluid .
The apparatus ( G ) was hanging in the open air at 40~ , and put into the same freezing mixture at 9 h. 51~ , on which it sunk instantly to 210~ , at which degree it was stationary at 9 h. 53~ , when it was taken out of the mixture perfectly solid .
At 10 h~ 6~ I saw it had subsided into the bulb ( I mean the quicksilver in the enclosed thermometer ) which was the last time I particularly noticed it .
It may be necessary to mention , that finding the quicksilver in the enclosed thermometer sink instantaneously as soon as the apparatus was put into the freezing mixture , I took it out immediately , to view it , and replaced it in a few seconds of time .
I found the quicksilver was not yet solid , but was in frozen pieces of irregular shapes , resembling ice that had been broken to pieces by concussion in a pail of water , but with this remarkable difference , that as ice swims on the water , the frozen quicksilver subsided in fluid quicksilver , and the segment of ice , mentioned a little before to be found in the thermometer ( F ) was also at the bottom of the cylinder , and remained there after decanting the liquid quicksilver from it .
Hence we may conclude , that cold increases the gravity of quicksilver , as indeed must be the case , since it is certain it occupies less space in a solid than in a fluid state .
perest time for ascertaining in this manner to what degree quicksilver will contract by the application of cold .
With this view this seventh experiment was made : the several thermometers from A to H were as follows , before I began , A 38 , B 36 , C 33 , D 24 , E 241/ 2 , F 33 , G 33 , H 37 .
Those used in the experiment were C , D and H. The first was to show the descent of the quicksilver ; and the two last , which were spirit thermometers , were employed to show the corresponding contractions of the two substances , quicksilver and alcohol .
After above an hour 's attendance on them , I was highly pleased to see the quicksilver fall to 1367~ below the cipher , especially as I supposed , by changing the mixture for a fresh one , I should get it much lower still .
I made another accordingly , and removed the instruments into it .
The quicksilver rose , as was common in changing the mixtures ; but after waiting a considerable time , without its descending again , I recollected Professor BRAUN mentioning that his thermometers were always broken when below 600~ .
This made me examine mine , and I found the bulb was broken and fallen off ; and on a diligent search in the mixture , I could not find either quicksilver or the pieces of glass ; I therefore conclude it had dropped off into the other mixture , which unluckily I had thrown away the moment before , having occasion to use the bason in decanting the present mixture : I have no doubt but it broke at the time the quicksilver fell so rapidly .
During the course of this experiment I put the apparatus ( G ) into the freezing mixture ; in a minute 's time the quicksilver in the enclosed thermometer had subsided into the bulb , and remained so during the time it continued immersed in the freezing mixture , which was about three quarters of an hour ; but though the thermometer , which made part of the apparatus , showed so great a degree of cold , wood for lightness , which I found would remain in the gelatinous freezing mixture at any depth I chose ; but when inserted into the quicksilver contained in the gallipot , the great disproportion of gravity made it rebound upwards , and by the touch I could easily perceive , by the resistance it met with , whether it proceeded from quicksilver in a fluid or congealed state .
The event did not answer my wishes , for I could not find that the quicksilver was frozen in the least during the trial .
Indeed the temperature of the air was not favourable , being under 20~ below the cipher .
The large quantity too of the quicksilver in the gallipot , as well as the thickness of that vessel , might both of them contribute to render the operation unsuccessful ; yet , as the apparatus thermometer showed the same degree ( 40 ) as when quicksilver froze in the glass cylinder , I am of opinion it would congeal by this simple method in very cold weather , and a long continued application of a proper degree of cold by the mixtures .
Experiment IX .
made February 22 , 1782 .
Whilst I was attending on the preceding experiment ( the 5th ) and had removed the instruments into a second mixture , the former one by this means being unemployed , I put into it a gallipot ( the same I used in the eighth experiment ) with about three quarters of a pound of quicksilver , and let it remain immersed in the mixture a considerable time ( I suppose near half an hour ) , and finding , by touching with a quill , that part of it was congealed , I drew the gallipot out , it being previously slung with a string , and decanted off the super incumbent mixture and fluid quicksilver ; the remainder , about two-thirds of the whole quantity , remained solid in the galli pot ; pot ; the internal surface remained every where very rough and white , shining like an old silver spoon long in use and having lost its polish .
Part of it became fluid in a few minutes ; and imagining it afforded a fine opportunity of confirming what had before appeared to be the freezing point of quicksilver , I put a mercurial thermometer ( F ) which then stood at 34~ , into the part of the quicksilver in the gallipot , which was just thawed , and it subsided directly to 40~ , and became stationary .
I repeated the same with another instrument , and the consequence was the same .
I then tried the spirit thermometer ( D ) which became stationary at 28~1/ 2 ; and another spirit thermometer ( E ) which I took out of the freezing mixture , where it was at 35~ , and it rose to 30~ ; and by comparing the spirit thermometers with mercurial ones , and also with another spirit thermometer ( H ) it appears , that 29~ on the former is about equal to 40~ on the scale of both the latter .
By the time these observations were taken , the frozen lump was loosened in the gallipot : I turned it out , and beat it with an hammer ; it yielded a dead sound and flattened , but its cohesion was very weak ; for , instead of expanding into a thin plate , as in other instances when frozen in the bulb of a thermometer , it crumbled to pieces , and had not that polish , which I had before constantly observed .
I attributed these circumstances to the effect of the spirit of nitre on the quicksilver .
It thawed very soon after its parts were disjoined by the stroke of the hammer .
Experiment X. made January 26 , 1782 .
Quicksilver frozen by the natural cold in Hudson 's Bay .
The subject of this curious phenomenon was quicksilver put into a common two-ounce phial , and corked .
The phial was about a third part full , and had been constantly standing by the thermometer for a month past .
At eight o'clock this morning I observed it was frozen rather more than a quarter of an inch thick round the sides and bottom of the phial , the middle part continuing fluid .
As this was a certain method to find the point of congelation , I introduced the mercurial thermometer ( F ) and the spirit thermometer ( D ) into the fluid part , after breaking off the top of the phial , and they rose directly and became stationary ; the former at 40~ or 40~1/ 2 , the latter at 29~3/ 4 , both below the cipher .
Having taken these out , I put in two others , ( G ) and ( E ) ; the former became stationary at 40~ , the latter at 30~ .
I then decanted the fluid quicksilver , to examine the internal surface of the frozen quicksilver , which proved very uneven , with many radii going across ; some of these resembled pins with heads .
Urgent business called me away an hour .
On my return I found a small portion only had liquified in my absence .
I then broke the phial entirely , and with a hammer repeatedly struck the quicksilver .
It beat out flat , yielded a deadish sound , and became fluid in less than a minute afterwards .
I should have mentioned , that I brought the thermometer ( F ) into a room , where it rose to 55~ above the cipher , and then let it cool again in the open air , before I put it into the frozen quicksilver .
My reason was , for fear the quicksilver in the thermometer should be frozen so as to render the observation uncertain ; but I did not observe it differed any thing of consequence from ( G ) which was not taken in , but put directly into the phial .
By the comparative observations of the several thermometers it appears , that 30~ on the scale of the spirit thermometers ( D ) and ( E ) is about equal to 40~ or 41~ on my standard spirit thermometer ( H ) .
The following was the state of the instruments that morning , A. B. D. E. F. G. H. At eight 103 80 33 1/ 2 33 42 1/ 2 42 46 At nine 323 444 29 -29 1/ 2 40 40 44 At noon 34 32 21 21 1/ 2 30 29 1/ 2 34 It may be worth remarking , that the quicksilver in the thermometer ( B ) which had been very near 500~ , and was then at 444~ , very readily run up and down the tube by elevating either end of the instrument .

