]\gt ; Eflect of gnetic Force on Motion of ) Ions .
357 increases .
The values obtained , of course , depend on the degree of so that observations for any one curve must be made on the same day .
possible explanation of the diminution of with X is that , in a which has been imperfectly dried , the number of ions which attain and continue in the electronic state increases more rapidly with the force than when the gas is perfectly dry .
Thus , with the larger values of , the ative ions move as electrons in the gas even when some water vapour is present .
I wish , in conclusion , to express my thanks to Prof. Townsend , to whom I am greatly indebted for advice and assistance houb .
Effect of a Magnetic Force on the Motion of ) Ions in Gas .
By J. S. TOWNSEND , F.B.S. , M.A. , Wykeham Professor of Physics , Oxford , and H. T. TIZARD , M.A. , Fellow of Oriel , Oxford .
( Received June 26 , \mdash ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) 1 .
When the velocity of a charged particle in a is proportional to the electric force and inversely proportional to the pressure , the size of the particle is unaltered either by chances in the pressure or in the force .
For a large range of pressures and forces the mass of an ion is thus shown to be constant , since the velocity is proportional to the ratio At low pressures when the ratio exceeds a certain value the velocity of the negative ions undergoes large changes when small variations are made in the force or in the pressure .
The increase in the mobility may be explained on the hypothesis that the mass associated with the negative ion diminishes .
Thus in dry air at a pressure of 29 mm. the velocity of the negative ions is 926 cm .
per second , under a force of volts per centimetre , *whereas if the ion travelled with the same mass that it has at atmospheric pressure the velocity would be about 114 cm .
per second .
Also under these conditions it may be shown that the velocity of a molecule of air with an atomic would be of the order 370 cm . .
second .
It thus appears that at low pressures the mass associated with the rative ions has an average value less than that of a molecule , so that some of its free paths between collisions with molecules the ion moves as an electron .
It is of interest to make further gations at lower pressures and to find to what extent the electronic state prevails as the pressure is reduced .
* R. T. Lattey , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1910 , , vol. 84 , p. 173 .
Prof. Townsend and Mr. Tizard .
Effect of [ June 26 , As it seemed impracticable to measure velocities greater than about 3000 cm .
per second ) the method used by Lattey , experiments were made to measure the netic deflection of a stream of ions moving with a constant velocity under a small electric force in air at FIG. 2 .
each half a millimetre wide , and were parallel to the slit in the plate B. The stream of ions , after coming through the slit in the metal plate , opens out considerably , so that all the ions are not received by the central electrode .
This lateral diffusion increases as the pressure is diminished when the electric force is constant , as is indicated by the following ratios of the charges , received by the three electrodes when the electric force is volts per centimetre .
The ratios of the charges were 1 : 4 : 1 for a pressure of 10 mm. , and were 1 : for the pressure mm. This abnormal increase in the rate of lsion of the negative ions was previously investigated for pressures between and 16 mm. of air when the negative ions were enerated by Rontgen rays .
* J. S. Townsend , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1908 , , vol. 81 , p. 464 .
1912 .
] gnetic Force on the )of Negative Ions .
Recently , a further investigation has been made with lower by Mr. Haselfoot , being produced by the action of ultra-violet light on a metal plate .
The lateral diffusion continued to increase as the pressure was diminished , so that at mm. pressure it was estimated that in these expeliments 15 to 20 per cent. of the ions received by the electrodes may come within a centinletre of the circular edge of the electrodes when a force of volts per centimetre is used .
The pressure to which the air may be reduced is limited by this effect , and , with the forces that were used , it was considered that the experiments would not be accurate if the pressure were reduced below 3 mm. , as some ions might be deflected off the electrodes when the magnetic field is } ) plied .
At first sight , it might appear that this effect would almost certainly produce inaccuracies at 3 mm. , but a point to be noticed is that the netic field diminishes the lateral diffusion , so that , as the deflection increases , the ions do not spread out so much from the centre of the stream , the chance of being deflected off the electrodes is diminished .
The effect of a magnetic field on the rate of diffusion of the ions is at present being ated experimentally , and it is not yet possible to say the exact extent to which it would diminish the lateral diffusion , but theory shows that the effect is probably quite large .
The netic field was produced by a current in two circular coils 33 cm .
diameter , the direction of the force parallel to the slits between the electrodes .
The whole stream of ions was deflected , and , for a particular value of , the centre of the stream fell on the slit between and .
In a series of experiments at arious pressures , the electrodes and were joined , and the charge they received , , was compared with the charge received by , by means of a sensitive electrostatic induction balance .
Variations were made in the intensity of the magnetic field , and the corresponding ratios were observed .
3 .
The results of the experiments shown by the curves for the different pressures when a constant electric was used .
The defiection was practically the same when electric forces from 1 to 3 yolts per centimetre were used .
When the netic force is zero the centre of the stream of ions falls on the centre of lihe electrode , which is 9 mm. wide and is 7 cm .
from the aperture in B. For a particular value of the magnetic force the charge is equal to and the centre of the stream is then deflected to the centre of the air space between the electrodes and and the tangent of the angle of deflection is If the ratio of the charge to the mass of an ion is the same all its * See preceding paper .
Prof Townsend and Mr. Tizard .
Effect of [ June 26 , free paths , then , according to the theory , the deflection is proportional to the netic force when the deflection is small .
In all these experiments small deflections were used but it was only at the lower pressures that the deflection was found to increase continuously with the force .
At the higher pressures , 8 to 10 mm. , the ratio diminished at first as the magnetic force was increased , and for a certain of the charge became equal , indicating that a deflection of had been attained .
When further increases were made in the magnetic force the ratio attained a minimum value and then increased , as is shown by the curve ( FIG. 3 .
corresponding to the pressure of 10 mm. When air at pressures was used , it was found impossible to deflect the stream through the angle with magnetic forces of the order of 100 electromagnetic units .
The curves represent the effects obtained in air that had been thoroughly dried ; when traces of moisture are present the deflections are very much smaller .
4 .
It will be seen from the following investigations that the deflections observed even at the higher pressures are so that the electrons cannot be associated with molecules continuously while they pass from the aperture in to the electrodes .
1912 .
] Magnetic Force on the Motion egatvve Ions .
It has been shown that when an ion moves through a gas under an electric force X in a netic field in which the direction of the magnetic force is perpendicular to the electric force , the direction of motion of the particle will make angle with the direction of the electric force , where He being the charge of the particle in electrostatic units , its mass , the mean interval between collisions with molecules .
In the same notation the velocity in the direction of the electric force is , so that when is small the velocity due to the electric force is approximately X The deflections that would be produced in air at a pressure of one hundredth of an atmosphere by a magnetic force of 100 neCic units , when the mass associated with the moving atomic charge is equal to the mass of a molecule of air , may be found from the above formula .
In this case the mean interval between collisions is obtained from the mean free path and the velocity of agitation of a molecule of air .
The ordinary formula for the viscosity of a in terms of the mean free path of a molecule , is , but it is subject to small corrections .
It has been shown by Jeans that the principal error arises from neglecting the persistence of the velocities of the molecules after collisions , and when corrected for this effect the formula becomes .
The mean free path of a molecule in air at 760 mm. pressure and C. obtained from this formula is cm .
The velocity of agitation being cm .
per sec. , the interval between collisions in air at mm. pressure is sec. When is the mass of a molecule of air and is 100 electromagnetic units the value of is , so that .
Thislt deflection is very small compared with the deflections that have been observed , so that it would be impossible to explain any of the experiments on the hypothesis that the negative ions are pelmanently connected with molecules of the gas while they move from the plate to the electrodes C. It appears , therefore , that the ative ion must still be in the electronic state when traversing some of the free paths between collisions , after passing through the 6 cm .
of air between the plates A and , even when the pressure is as high mm. 5 .
At the lower pressures where the deflections increase continuously with the magnetic force , the formula given above for the deflection of a stream of ions may be applied to the results of the experiments in order to find the average mass of the ion .
It is necessary to assume that the average size of Jeans , Dynamical Theory oases , Proc. Prof Townsend and Mr. Tizard .
Effect of [ June 26 , the ion is small compared with a molecule , and the mean free path of the ion may be deduced from the mean free path of a molecule of air .
The mean free path of the ion is , the multiplier 4 accounting for the fact that the dimensions of the ion are small as compared with those of a molecule of the gas , and the additional factor represents the increase of the free paths of the ion from its high velocity of itation , in comparison with the molecules may be supposed to be at rest .
The mean value of in terms of quantities that have been determined is then given by the formula for the deflection in which is substituted for , the interval between collisions .
Thus ' being the number of molecules of a gas at atmosphelic pressure , and the velocity of agitation of the ions .
Undel ordinary conditions when the ions are in thermal equilibrium with the quantity is three times the pressure of an atmosphere , but when the ions move electrons the kinetic energy of translation is greater than that of the surrounding molecules by factol depends on the pressure and electric force .
In dry air at mm. pressure under a force of volts per centimetre the factor is , and rises to 8 when the force is 3 volts per .
Thus for being the value of atmospheric pressure in dynes per square centimetre .
When the pressure is mm. , for a tYnetic force of 14 netic units , as ieen froul the ) eriments , and the expression for then gives This shows that the ion must be in the electroqic state while many of the free patbs between collisions with molecules since the value of for an electron is ap , and the value of when is a molecule of air is The electronic state prevails to a greater extent the electric force increases since the same deflection is obtained with the magnetic force of 14 electrolnagnetic units when the electric force is increased from to 3 volts per centimetre .
The value of .
increases from to 8 , so that at a pressure of mm. and a force of 2 volts per centimetre the mean value of becomes Further investigations are made with an apparatus suitable for measuring the effects at lower pressures and higher electric forces as it is of interest to see how the ratio as obtained by this method compares with the value , that has been obtained for cathode rays when the 1912 .
] Magnetic Force on the Motion of Negative Ions .
motion of the particle is not controlled by collisions with molecules of the gas .
When is small the velocity in the direction of the electric force is not affected by the magnetic field , and The above experiments thus a value of the velocity due to an electric force which for 1 volt per centimetre is cm .
per second in air at mm. pressure .
These investigationls at low pressures , therefore , lead to the conclusion that with small electric forces of the order of two volts per centimetre the mass associated with the ative ion varies the motion .
Its ayerage value in air diminishes as the pressure is reduced from 30 mm. to 3 mm. and approaches the mass of an electron at the lower pressures .
6 .
It is possible on this hypothesis to explain the effects observed at the pressures above 8 mm. when the nlagnetic deflection attained a maximum value and then diminished as the force was increased .
If the electrons move freely along some of their paths between collisions and if the other paths they are associated with a molecule or a roup of molecules of the , it is necessary to find correct expressions for the velocity due to an electric force and for the magnetic deflection of a stream , as the ordinary formulae do not apply accurately when the mass associated with the atomic charge variations .
Let be the velocity of a free electron in the electric field when the magnetic force is zero , and the velocity when the electron is associated with a molecule or boroup of molecules of the gas .
Let , where is the netic force , the charge and the of an electron , and the mean interval between two consecutive collisions of an electron with molecules of the gas .
Also let the sum of the intervals which the electron moves freely be , and the sum of the intervals when the electron is associated a comparatively large mass .
When the magnetic force is acting the velocity in the direction of the electric force is during the time , and time the velocity is , since magnetic force has practically no effect on the motion of the mass .
The distance traversed in the direction of the electric force in the time is therefore The velocity in a direction perpendicular to the electric force is for the time , and } the time the magnetic deflection is inappreciable .
Hence the distance that the charge travels in this direction in the time is .
Prof. Townsend and Mr. Tizard .
Effect of [ June 26 , The angle of deflection of the stream is therefore given by the equation If it be assumed for simplicity that the ratio is not affected by the netic f , then is the only quantity in the expression for that involves , and the angle has a maximum value when vanishes .
Thus the equation or gives the value of for which is a maximum , and , the maximum value of , is given by the equation As the pressure is increased groups of molecules are formed more fiequenGly round the ions so that increases and the maximum deflection diminishes , which rees with the observations .
The maximum value of may also be expressed in terms of as follows:\mdash ; , or so that when the maximum value of is small the netic force required to produce the maximum deflection is given approximately by the equation or , At 10 mm. pressure the mean free path of an electron is of the order cm .
, and the velocity of agitation is cm .
per second .
The quantity represents the abnormal inclease of the partial pressure , and depends on the electric force .
In this case , X one volt per centimetre , so that the velocity of agitation i cm .
per second .
The value of may thus be estimated and , if the value of for the electron be taken as , the value of that Qives the maximum deflection is 270 netic units .
The value obtained experimentally was about 100 netic units .
A closer agreement between the theory and the observations callnot be expected owing to the uncertainty of the effect of the magnetic field on the ratio , and also , perhaps , on the value of 7 .
It should be pointed out in connection with this theory that the velocity of an ion due to an electric force as obtained by a direct method is not in general ths same as the velocity deduced from the netic deflection .
They represent average velocities taken in different ways , and are accurately the same only when the mass of the ion does not undergo ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1908 , , vol. 81 , p. 464 .
1912 .
] lllagnetic Force on Motion of Negative Ions .
variations during its motion from one point to another in the gas .
If the variations in the mass were small , the two velocities would be approximately equal , but , when the mass may change from that of an electron to that of a molecule of the gas , they may be widely different .
The distance traversed by the charge when is zero is , in the time , and the velocity of the ions , as determined by a direct method , is The velocity as deduced from the magnetic deflection is , where , and Hence , If the value of be very small , so that the ratio will be the same in the two cases , then , neglecting , the value of becomes When and are of the sanoe order , is much greater than , but they become equal when , that is , when the ions are in the electronic state throughout the motion .
VOL. LXXXVIL\mdash ; A.

