]\gt ; 1878 .
] On the Transformation of Elliptic Functions .
of of and the same side .
percentage of times of difference of occurrencc of superiority of temperature teml)erature of one district over another on both sides taken . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
\mdash ; C. .
to above figures , superiority of temperature of it given side of the hcad over the other , is a little less frequent of occurrence than superiority of temperature of a glven tier or district of one and the same side over another tier or district .
The sides of head are rarely equal in temperature , but the balance of superiority shifts so frequently one side to the other , that the of superiority for either side , in a given number of ations , is comparatively small .
III .
Addition to .
on the Transformation of ctions.\ldquo ; By A. , F.R.S. , Profcssor ) Pure hematics i the Ulliversity of , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) I ve recently succeeded in .
a theory considered ltly ' ' Memoir on the Transformation of iptic lions , " " Phil. ( 1874 ) , pp. , that of the septic transformation , have here a solution of ' here ; and the ratios , and cquation are detcrmined by the cquations , ; is the same first ion m ) replaced by ) ' and then , , o incro , the three $ 178 On the ansformation of Elhptic Functions .
[ Mar. 7 , equations determine the modular equation .
If instead of / 3 we introduce , by means of the reIation , that is then the last equation gives ; and having these values , we have the dual two equations , , , each of these is a quadric equation in ; hence eliminating we have the modular equation ; amd also ( linearly ) the value of and thence the values in terms of 21 , Before going further it is proper to remark that , writing as above , then if , we have , , and the equalion of the transformation becomes , this belongs to the cubic transformation .
The value of ( 3 in the cubic transformation was taken to be , but for the present purpose it is necessary to pay attention to an omitted double sign , and write ; this being so , , and giving to the value will have its foregoing value .
And from the theory of the cubic cquation , according as or , the modular ttion must bc , or thus see , and it is cas to verif verify , that the equations of the septic transformation are satistied the values , and ; : thd it honce follows that in ining the modular for the septic nsformation , we shall mcet with the factors .
Writing for , these factors , the factor for the proper modular equation is ?
, where .
G. H. Darwin on Geological , the equation is ] , and the modular equation as by the elimination from the two quadric equations in fact presents itself in the furm JIarch ] 4 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read : I. " " On Professor Haughton 's Estimate of Time By GEORGE H. DARWIN , M.A. , Fellow of College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , F.R.S. Received February 19 , 1878 .
In a paper recently read before the Boyal Society , *Professor Haughton has endeavoured by an ingenious line of argument to give an estimate of the time which may have elapsed in the history of the earth .
The results attained by him are , if generally accepted , of the very greatest interest to geologists , and on that account his method merits a rigorous examination .
The object , therefore , of the present note is to criticise the applicability of his results to the case of the earth ; and I conceive my criticism is either rect , and will meet its just fate of refutation , or else is destructive of the estimate of geological time .
Professor ument m be summarised as follows : \mdash ; The impulve elevation of a continent would produce a suddcn placemcnb of the earth 's axis of greatest moment of inertia .
Immediately after the earchquake , the axis of rotation no longer coincidelltvith the principal axis , will , according to dynamical principles , begin describing a cone round the incipal { , and the completc circle of the cone will be described about days .
the ocean not being rigidly connected with tho nucleus , tide will be cstablished , which by its with tend * ' ' Notes on .
No. III .
On ) of finding to the Dnration of Pcriods " " .
Ro Soc vol. xxvi , ) December .

