238 Mr. R. Dunstan and Miss L. E. Boole .
[ June 20 , existed a focus , excitation of which resulted in adduction of the vocal cords , and another near to this , stimulation of which resulted in abduction of the cords .
While in the cat it was possible to differentiate these movements without any preliminary measures being adopted , it was otherwise in the dog , for it was only after the adductor fibres of one recurrent laryngeal nerve had been divided transversely that it first became possible to evoke abduction of the vocal cords on excitation of the cortex , though in subsequent experiments it was sometimes possible to evoke this movement on excitation of the cortex of the dog without adopting this preliminary measure .
The other effect on the cords , which it was as a rule found most difficult to differentiate from that of abduction , was acceleration of their movements .
In further exploring the cortex it was found that on the anterior composite gyrus , below the abdnctor centre , there existed a focus , excitation of which resulted in what is described as a clonic adductor effect on the cowls , in which the cords were first brought into a position of moderate adduction , and then there was added rapid short to-and-fro excursions .
On passing within the confines of Spencer 's area for arrest of respiration , it was found that in the peripheral parts of this area there existed three foci , excitation of which affected the cords in different ways .
The most anterior of these foci was responsible for arrest of the cords in adduction , i.e. , in the expiratory stage of their excursions ; excitation of the focus behind this , and corresponding , probably , to Horsley and Semon 's abductor centre in the cat , was followed by arrest of the cords in abduction , i.e. , their inspiratory position ; while the most posterior focus , which is situated at about the junction of the anterior composite and anterior sylvian convolutions , resulted in intensification combined with acceleration of the movements of the cords when stimulated .
Excitation of Spencer 's chief focus for arrest of respiration on the olfactory lobe , resulted in arrest of the cords in the position they occupy during expiration in dogs , and in the position they occupy during inspiration in cats .
VI .
" An Enquiry into the Nature of the Vesicating Constituent of Croton Oil .
" By Wyndham R. Dunstan , M.A. , F.R.S. , and Miss L. E. Boole , F.I.C. , Lecturer on Chemistry in the London School of Medicine for Women .
Received June 5 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The vesicating constituent , or more strictly , the pustule-producing constituent of croton oil , has been the subject of investigation by 1895.1 Nature of the Vesicating Constituent of Croton Oil .
239 numerous chemists and pharmacologists during the past forty years .
According to the researches of Buchheim , and more recently of Kobert and Hirscheydt , the vesicating action is due to an acid closely allied to oleic acid , which has been given the name of crotonoleic acid .
This substance is now prepared on a large scale in Germany for medical use , being extracted from croton oil by the method devised by Kobert and Hirscheydt .
This consists in saponifying with barium hydroxide that part of croton oil which readily dissolves in strong alcohol .
The resulting barium salts are washed with water , then dried , , and repeatedly extracted with ether , which dissolves the barium salts of oleic and crotonoleic acids .
These salts are separated by means of ether , which dissolves only the barium crotonoleate , and this , when decomposed with dilute sulphuric acid and extracted with ether , furnishes the crotonoleic acid as a viscid oil .
Since very little is known about this acid , even its composition being undetermined , the authors prepared it with the object of studying its properties and , if possible , of determining the constitution , since no fatty acid of known constitution exhibits the property of vesicating .
Starting with the crotonoleic acid prepared as described above , the lead salt was obtained and submitted to a process of fractional precipitation by adding successive quantities of water to its solution in alcohol .
By this means crotonoleic acid was proved to be a mixture composed for the most part of inactive oily acids , the lead salts of which are precipitated first , whilst the true vesicating constituent ( or its lead salt ) is principally contained in the last fractions , and represents but a small proportion of the original material .
It was observed that the conversion of the crotonoleic acid into a lead salt did appreciably affect its vesicating power .
The supposed active constituent of croton oil , crotonoleic acid , ' having thus been shown to be a mixture , the authors proceeded to attempt to isolate the vesicating constituent from croton oil direct .
By saponifying that part of croton oil which is soluble in strong alcohol with a mixture of lead oxide and water , and repeatedly fractionating an alcoholic solution of the lead salts with water , the later fractions , which possessed the greatest vesicating power , ultimately furnished , when submitted to a series of fractionations , a resinous substance having extraordinary power as a vesicant .
This substance could not be further resolved by repeating the process of fractional precipitation of the alcoholic solution with water .
The same substance was isolated from the so-called " crotonoleic acid , " and the authors propose to name it " croton-resin .
" To its presence the vesicating property of croton oil is due .
The composition of croton-resin is expressed by the empirical formula 0i3H1804 .
So far all attempts to crystallise it , or to obtain crystalline derivatives from it , VOL. lviii .
s 240 Prof. Karl Pearson .
Note on Regression and [ June 20 , have been unsuccessful .
It is a hard , pale yellow , brittle resin , nearly insoluble in water , light petroleum , and benzene , but readily dissolved by alcohol , ether , and chloroform .
When heated it gradually softens , and is quite fluid at 90 ' C. Croton-resin has neither basic nor acidic properties ; it may be boiled with a mixture of lead oxide and water without being appreciably affected .
Ebullition with aqueous potash or soda gradually decomposes it , destroying its vesicating power .
The products of this action are several acids , some of which are members of the acetic series .
By oxidation of the resin with nitric acid a mixture of acids is obtained .
The constitution of croton-resin is therefore complicated , and its molecular formula would appear to be at least ( Ci3H1804)2 or C26H3608 .
Since it is not saponified by a mixture of lead oxide and water , and as no glycerol could be detected among the products of its decomposition by alkalis , it is not a glyceride , and as it does not react with hydroxylamine or phenylhydrazine or sodium bisulphite , it is probably neither a ketone nor an aldehyde .
The evidence so far obtained points to the conclusion that the constitution of the vesicating constituent of croton oil is that of a lactone or anhydride of complicated structure .
VII .
\lt ; e Note on Regression and Inheritance in the Case of Two Parents .
" By Karl Pearson , University College , London .
Communicated by Francis Galton , F.R.S. Received June 5 , 1895 .
Consider a population in which sexual selection and natural selection may or may not be taking place .
Assume only that the deviations from the mean in the case of any organ of any generation follow exactly or closely the normal law of frequency , then the following expressions may be shown to give the law of inheritance of the population .
Let H2 = deviation of the father from mean of the total population of fathers , and |let \lt ; r2 = the standard deviation of the total population of fathers .
Let H3 and \lt ; r3 be the corresponding quantities for the mother for the same ( or any other ) organ .
Let Hi be the mean deviation of the offspring ( fraternity ) due to fathers H2 and mothers H3 with regard to the same ( or any other ) organ , and let \lt ; rx be the standard deviation of the whole offspring population .
If we are dealing with offspring , of one sex , both the mean and the standard deviation of the offspring may differ , owing to natural selection , by any amount from those of .
parents of the same sex .

