384 Mr. H. C. Sorby on some Optical [ June 2 ] with facility\#151 ; simply because the large space covered by related nob cannot be , in the general case , brought within reach of the hand .
Bi any system can be demonstrated in this manner .
Keyboard of the Second Order .
The keyboard of the second order furnishes results of some interes It can be easily arranged according to the foregoing rules .
The peer liarity in the result is , that performance on a complete system of tl second order and first class , by means of it , is nearly as easy as perforn ance on systems of the first order by means of the keyboard former ] constructed .
The problem of representation and performance is thisolved both for the Hindoo system of and for the system of 34 , tl interest of which has been already indicated .
Diagram II .
( p. 382 ) represents a portion of the keyboard of the secou order .
c\#151 ; \e\#151 ; g is a major triad ; whence the major thirds are better situate for the finger than on the first-order keyboard with positive systems ; bi the presence of continuous rows of keys in all twelve divisions is some what less advantageous than in that arrangement .
c\#151 ; /e\}\#151 ; g is the minor triad .
In the general transformation of the rth order , transformation wit regard to colour ( white or black ) is not generally practicable .
Fc the most general purposes it would be necessary to have a sufficier supply of keys of both colours for every pattern ; for any particular cas the requirements are more limited .
June 21 , 1877 ( continued ) .
IX .
" On some hitherto Undescribed Optical Properties of Doublj Refracting Crystals."\#151 ; Preliminary Notice .
By H. C Sorby , F.R.S. , President of the Royal Microscopical and ol the Mineralogical Societies .
Received June 20 , 1877 .
In the Proceedings of the Royal Society ( vol. xxiv .
p. 393 ) Dr Royston-Pigott described a new refractometer to determine the indej of refraction of liquids and other substances by means of the displace meant of the focal point of an object seen through them with a lov magnifying-power .
Another paper on the subject was communicated by him to the Royal Microscopical Society , and subsequently published 877 .
] Properties of Doubly Refracting Crystals .
i its Journal* .
After the reading of this paper I said that it appeared ) me probable that the same principle might be applied with advantage ) the determination of the index of refraction of minerals .
The chief uestion was how to make the requisite measurements by means of such a addition to an ordinary microscope as would not in any way interfere rith its general use for other purposes .
This I accomplished by fixing graduated scale to the body of the microscope and a vernier to the ipporting arm , so that the position of the focal point can be read off to dthin about tsov an ^nc^- I described this arrangement and ointed out its value in connexion with mineralogy at a meeting of the lineralogical Society last March , and an account of it was published in le Journal of the Societyt .
I have since learned that a very similar ddition was made to a microscope in Professor Clifton 's laboratory at )xford some eight years ago , and used for the measurement of the index f refraction of glass , but no account of it was ever published .
When I came to study the index of refraction of doubly refracting ainerals I was very soon struck with the fact that , instead of seeing at no focus the two systems of lines at right angles to each other , they rear sometimes quite invisible , or one set was seen at one focus , and the there at a very different , as though they had been ruled on the two oppo-ite sides of a piece of glass .
These curious phenomena were exhibited it the soiree of the Eoyal Society on the 25th of April last , and Pro-essor Stokes immediately examined the question theoretically , and found hat they could be explained by , and might have been predicted from , he known laws of double refraction , though apparently no one had ever tudied them , either theoretically or practically .
We therefore deeded to investigate the problem independently . !
I was to make the iractical observations , and he to give the theoretical explanations , the .esults being kept separate , but communicated conjointly to the Eoyal Society .
There was no difficulty whatever in proving that the general phenomena agreed with the results of theory ; but when I came to compare -he numerical results of observation and calculation I found that many unexpected difficulties had to be contended with .
The sections of minerals , originally made for an entirely different purpose , were in many eases not cut with sufficient accuracy , or were too full of flaws .
It was some time before I could obtain suitable specimens of some minerals , and it was necessary to recut nearly all my original preparations .
I also found that there were several unforeseen sources of error , and^that it was requisite to repeat nearly all my measurements .
Much to my regret , I therefore found it necessary to publish along with Professor Stokes s paper , either a large number of indices known to be inaccurate and not suitable for comparison with theory , or to publish this present pre- * 1876 , vol. xv i. p. 294 .
t 1877 , vol. i. p. 97 .
2d 2 386 Prof. G. G. Stokes on the Foci of Lines [ June 2 ] liminary notice , and defer to a subsequent occasion a detailed account c the whole subject , as known from observation .
In that paper I purpos to show how the indices can be accurately determined in minerals c different structure , to point out how closely observation agrees wit theory , and to describe a number of anomalies met with in particula specimens .
X. " On the Foci of Lines seen through a Crystalline Plate .
By G. G. Stokes , , M.A. , Sec. R.S. Received June 21 , 1877 .
At the Soiree oS : the Royal Society on the 25th of April Mr. Sorb showed me the method he had recently devised for discriminating betwee : minerals by focusing a microscope over a delicate image of cross lines which image was viewed , first directly , and then through a crystallin plate , having previously been adjusted to be at the distance of the lowe surface of the plate .
With glass and singly refracting substances th alteration of the focus produced by the interposition of the plate afford a measure of its refractive index .
But with a plate cut from a doubl ; refracting crystal , not only is there more than one focal distance , but fo one at least of the pencils there is ( except in special cases ) no true focus , but the foci of the two systems of cross lines are found at two dif ferent depths , or else there is no sharply defined image at all , according to the orientation of the lines relatively to lines fixed in the crystallint plate .
Moreover the result obtained on applying the formula which , fo : a singly refracting plate , gives the refractive index from the measure( displacement of the focus is often widely different from what is knowi to .
be the refractive index of the crystal , for the pencil under examina tion , in a direction perpendicular to the plate .
The phenomena will be described in detail by Mr. Sorby in his owr paper .
My object is to show how they flow from the known laws o : double refraction , as consequences of which they will necessarily comt under review * .
* [ It seemed pretty certain that some of the phenomena must have been noticec before , though I am not aware that- they have been described , or their theory workec out in any detail .
I find that Prof. Clifton has been in the habit of using an instru meant somewhat similar to Mr. Sorby 's , which was procured several years ago for tin Museum of the University of Oxford , and that he was familiar with such things as th\lt ; low apparent index of calcite for the extraordinary pencil nearly in the direction o : the axis , and the astigmatism in general of a pencil refracted across a plate otherwise than by ordinary refraction ; and , further , that he utilized these phenomena for the instruction of students as to the general form of the wave-surface .
No one , however so far as 1 know , before Mr. Sorby , had applied the phenomena to the practical discrimination of minerals , or had worked them out quantitatively and in detail ; and it is my desire to complete the subject , by supplying the mathematical theory , that must be my excuse for offering to the Society an investigation which in itself consists merelj in easy deductions from well-known principles .
It is perhaps hardly necessary to refer to a paper by Dr. Quincke in Poggendorff8

