t ]87i ] , Mr. W. Huggins on the Spectrum of Encke 's Comet .
45 ^ 0f Watcr and filtered into two flasks .
When cold , one of these was put it out at 8.35 .
At 10.30 the temperature was 35 ' , and next morning at I 8am 31 ' .
The flask was now brought in and left on the mantle-shelf , | where it remained some days exposed to dust , and it crystallized from loss ^ of water by evaporation .
P.S. August 17 , 1871.\#151 ; I may mention that the suggestion made \#187 ; above , that in an open space far from houses the results would be still | more perfect , has been realized by exposing in such a space supersaturated i solutions of sodic sulphate and of alum in small shallow vessels , quite full , 5 to the action of a strong wind under a cloudy sky , and they did not ciys-i tallize during half an hour 's exposure ; but the moment they were touched I with the finger they became solid .
Similar solutions were exposed in small open beakers in an open space during many hours , and at a tempe-I rature of about 40 ' F. , without crystallizing .
VII , " Note on the Spectrum of Encke 's Comet .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , V.P.R.S. Received November 16 , 1871 .
I give the following observations of Encke 's comet , and of the spectrum of its light , in the order of the dates of the evenings on which they were made .
Oct 17 .
The comet presented the appearance of a nearly circular faint nebulosity , in which no condensation could be certainly distinguished .
Nov. 7 .
By this time an important change had taken place in the appearance of the comet .
There was now a strong condensation of light towards the east .
The more condensed part of the comet , which was fan-shaped , was bounded on the eastern side by a tolerably defined contour , which approached in form to a parabolic curve .
Surrounding this brighter portion of the comet was a much fainter nebulosity , of which the boundary on the eastern side appeared to form a line at right angles to the axis of the comet .
I suspected a very minute stellar nucleus just within the eastern extremity of the brighter condensed part , and to a small extent north of the comet 's axis .
Nov. 8 .
The description given yesterday is applicable to the comet tonight .
The brighter part appears more defined and in stronger contrast to the fainter outlying nebulosity .
The nucleus is now visible with certainty .
On the western preceding side of the comet , the side towards the sun , the cometary light becomes gradually fainter and more extended until it is lost to view .
On this evening the light of the comet was examined by the spectroscope .
The larger part of the light was resolved by the prism into a bright band in the green part of the spectrum .
The band was defined at 46 Mr , W. Huggins on the Spectrum of Encke 's Comet .
[ Nov. 23 its less refrangible limit , and gradually faded towards the blue .
The micrometer gave 5160 millionths of a millimetre as the wave-length of the less refrangible boundary of the band .
' Two other bright bands were occasionally suspected ; one of them appeared to be about two thirds of the distance from the bright band towards D , the other a little distance beyond F. No continuous spectrum could be detected .
The nucleus was 1 \#166 ; JF 1 | 1 1 \#163 ; E 1 S 1 1 A 1 1 1 1 | 15 ! .
i , i S 1 l i 1 1 1 l 1 1 l 1 1 T 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 $ 1 1 T 1 ! ! .
1 1 1 1 T 111 II till* * till $ 1 I l 1 1 | i m it IH probably much too minute and faint to give a continuous spectrum that could be seen .
No difference in the spectrum was seen when the slit was moved over the comet in different directions , as far as its feeble light permitted .
The spectrum of a hydrocarbon , giving the bands which appear to be due to carbon , was then reflected into the instrument , and observed simultaneously with that of the comet .
The band in the green was found to be identical in position with the brightest of the bands of carbon , and to be similar in gradation of brightness from its less refrangible limit .
Nov. 9 .
The observations of yesterday were confirmed .
The second more refrangible band , which was then caught only by glimpses , was found to be coincident with the third band in the carbon spectrum .
The wavelength of the less refrangible limit was about 473bmm .
The least refrangible of the three cometary bands could be seen only occasionally .
Nov. 12 .
The observations on this evening contain no new facts .
Nov. 13 .
To-night the nucleus appears as a minute , well-defined stellar point .
In the spectroscope the three hands are distinctly seen .
The position in the spectrum of the least refrangible band corresponds with the first band of the carbon spectrum ; it commences from the red , with a wavelength of about 5632mm .
Attempts were made with a double-image prism , a Nicol 's prism , and a Nicol 's prism combined with a Savart 's system of plates to detect polarized light in the comet , but without success .
Nov. 14 .
The form of the comet remains nearly the same .
The outlying nebulosity is now chiefly on the south of the axis of the comet .
The nucleus appears to be precisely at the extreme eastern limit of the brighter , more condensed part of the comet .
The same spectrum was seen , but fog coming on interrupted the observations .
On this evening an attempt was made again to detect polarized light .
A i ^871 .
] Anniversary 47 1 double-image prism was placed between the eyepiece and the eye .
The i prism was brought into four different positions 90 ' apart .
At each posi-\ tion of the prism an attempt was made to estimate the relative brightness | of the two images .
The power of the prism was just sufficient to give two d images of the comet without their overlapping .
The difference in bright-d ness of the images was exceedingly small ; I could not be certain that any appreciable difference really existed .
However , I attempted in each case || to select one of the two images as the brighter one .
Afterwards I deterii mined the position of the prism at the four different estimations , and I !
j then found that three of the estimations were in accordance with a portion j of the comet 's light being polarized in a plane passing through the sun , | and One in opposition to that supposition .
I hesitate to attach any positive value to these observations ; but they may perhaps he taken as showing that no considerable part of the comet 's light is polarized .
J The foregoing observations appear to show that the spectrum of this i comet is identical with that of Comet II .
1868 , a description of which I i had the honour to present to the Royal Society* .
It is worthy of notice that the cometary matter appears drawn out and I diffused towards the sun , and that it has not yet come under the influence of the force , or been subjected to the conditions , whatever they may be , by which in most cases cometary matter appears to be powerfully repelled from the sun .
The observations were made with the telescope belonging to the Royal Society , of 15 inches aperture .
The spectroscope contained one prism with a refracting angle of 60 , and the small observing telescope magnified six times .
November 30 , 1871 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Dr. Blakiston , for the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society , reported that the total receipts during the past year , including a balance of 36127 9$ .
3 d.carried from the preceding year , and 36706 17s .
2 d.balance of the Oliveira bequest , amount to \#163 ; 5095 15 j and that the total expenditure in the same period , including ^518 2s .
10 from the Society 's funds to complete the payment for the Equatorial Telescope , amounts to 365169 13$ .
2d .
, leaving a balance of ^28 2s .
2d .
in the hands of the Treasurer , and of .\#163 ; 101 19$ .
9 due to the Bankers .
The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .
* Phil. Trans. 1868 , p. 555 and plate xxxiii .

