392 MM .
Wolf and Fritz on Sun-spots .
[ Mar. 23 , both of the solar spots near the minimum , and of the mean temperature also , are taken into account , such discrepancies might perhaps fairly be expected , even if there be a physical connexion between the two phenomena as results of some common cause .
If there be a sensible inequality in the mean temperature with a period of about ten years , then the mean temperature resulting from the observations in the temporary Observatory , which were made near a maximum , will be too high .
The corresponding ordinates , therefore , will be depressed too much relatively to those corresponding to observations made in the other two observatories .
In the curve 2,1 have imperfectly corrected the mean of the results for the temporary observatory on the supposition of such an inequality existing .
The only result of such a correction is to modify the curve at the points of junction of the observations made in different positions .
The general form is unaltered .
It should be mentioned that the point about which the curves appear to differ most is near or at the change of exposure from the original observatory to the temporary shed , about 1852 .
I may mention that I had not the slightest expectation , on first laying down the curves , of any sensible agreement resulting , but that I now consider the agreement too close to be a matter of chance .
I should , however , rather lean to the opinion that the connexion between the variation of mean temperature and the appearance of solar spots is indirect rather than direct , that each results from some general change of solar energy .
I have forwarded these curves to you , knowing the great interest you have ever taken in such inquiries , and on account of your being the chief promoter of the establishment of a Meteorological Observatory here .
The problems of meteorology appear to be presented here in a simpler form than in England ; and probably systematic photographic self-registering observations extended over a few years might lead to important results .
I have the honour to be , Sir , Yours obediently , E. J. Stone .
Sir Edward Sabine , K.C.B. , P.R.S. , fyc .
III .
Resume of two Papers on Sun-spots :\#151 ; On the Form of the Sun-spot Curve , " by Prof. Wolf ; and " On the Connexion of Sun-spots with Planetary Configuration , " by M. Fritz .
By B. Loewy .
Communicated by Warren De La Hue , F.R.S. , and B. Stewart , F.R.S. Of these two series of investigations , one is by Professor Wolf , the other by M. Fritz , communicated to Wolf .
In the first , Prof. Wolf has proposed to himself to find the mean character of the curve of sun-spots , i.e. its real form from one minimum to another .
He investigates the form only for 2| years before , and 2i years 1871 .
] Mr. F. Gal ton 's Experiments Pangenesis .
after each minimum , and concludes by a simple proportion of the re-r mainder .
He finds that the curve ascends more rapidly than it descends\#151 ; * the ascent taking in the mean 3*7 years , the descent lasting 7*4 years : We have established these data far more reliably in our last paper ; and our curve gives 3*52 years for the ascent , 7'54 years for the descent ( average of the three periods ) .
Professor Wolf also thinks that although a single period may differ essentially in its character and form from the mean , still ; on the whole , if the descent is retarded , the ascent in the same period is also retarded ; if the former is accelerated , the latter is also accelerated ' .
This is not quite borne out by our curve .
He also overlooks the secondary maximum , which may lead to great conclusions if more investigated together with other matters .
M. Fritz comes to the following conclusions \#151 ; , 1 .
The connexion between sun-spots and auroral and magnetic disturbances indicates an external cause , to be sought in planetary configurations . .
2 .
The relative influence of the planets must be exerted in the following order:\#151 ; Jupiter ( greatest ) , Venus , Mercury , Earth , Saturn .
- 3 .
This influence cannot entirely depend on the time of rotation ; but changes in the magnetic axes of these planets may have the most determining effect .
4 .
Investigating the comparative influences of them singly and together ( as far as possible ) , at the times of conjunction and quadrature , he finds the greatest coincidence of maxima of sun-spots with the time when Jupiter and Saturn are in quadrature ; and the greatest coincidence of minima when these planets are in conjunction .
5 .
There is also ( a minor ) coincidence of maxima when Jupiter and Venus are in quadrature .
There is also an extension of the paper for finding the connexions with auroras , and a statement that every 27'7 days there seems to be a monthly maximum , which may probably be explained ( according to Fritz ) by the tendency of a particular solar meridian to spot-formations , depending upon the presence of an intra-Mercurial planet . . .
1 March 30 , 1871 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair. .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; .* 5 I. " Experiments in Pangenesis , by Breeding from Rabbits of a pure variety , into whose circulation blood taken from other varieties had previously been largely transfused .
" By Francis Galton\gt ; F.R.S. Received March 23 , 1871 .
Darwin 's provisional theory of Pangenesis claims our belief on the ground that it is the only theory which explains , by a Bingle law , the numerous

