280 Prof. E. A. Schafer .
O Minute Structure of the The effect of the faint fog in increasing the value of [ V ] ~ , is plainly seen in the morning observations .
The effect also of a very few faint fleecy clouds is seen in the increase of [ V ] an(j ^ [ U ] for the observations at lh 0m and lh 30m , before which no clouds had been visible .
The air was saturated the whole day .
The candles which I used in all these observations , were the " Belmont Sperm , " supplied to me so as to burn 100 grs. in 47 , minutes .
" On the Minute Structure of the Muscle-Columns or Sarco-styles which form the Wing-Muscles of Insects .
Preliminary Note .
" By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received December 15 , 1890 , \#151 ; Read January 8 , 1891 .
[ Plates 4 \amp ; 5 .
] The fibres of the wing-muscles of most insects are made up of readily separable longitudinal elements , which are often called the " wing-fibrils , " although several observers have remarked the existence of an apparently fine fibrillation in them .
To avoid ambiguity , I shall employ the term " muscle-columns " ( , Kolliker ) , or its equivalent " sarcostyles , " * to designate these elements .
They are united together to form the fibres by a not inconsiderable amount of granular interstitial substance ( sarcoplasm , Rollett ) .
This substance has been regarded ( Ramon y Cajal ) as the true contractile material of the muscles , but it is easy , nevertheless , to observe the contraction of the sarcostyles , isolated in white of egg , a fact which has been pointed out by more than one writer on the subject ( Merkel , Kolliker ) .
If an insect of which the wing-muscles are of the character above described is cut open and placed in alcohol of about 90 p.c. for twenty-four hours or more , and is afterwards transferred to glycerine , the sarcostyles of the wing-muscles can be isolated and examined without difficulty ; they exhibit almost every phase of extension and retraction ( or contraction ) , and the usual appearance of alternate dark and light transverse bands , with a fine line traversing each light band .
When stained with dyes , such ae haematoxylin , the dark bands are found to take the staining most intensely ; the fine transverse lines are much less stained , and the clear bands hardly at all .
The various parts of the sarcostyle evidently differ from one another in their behaviour to staining reagents , and the transverse striation is not to be explained by the effect of the varicosities of the sarcostyle upon the light transmitted * 2ap\#163 ; , flesh , arv a column .
Muscle-Columns which form the Wing-Muscles of Insects .
281 through it ( Haycraft ) ; moreover , many of the sarcostyles show no such varicosities .
A more valuable , because more sharply selective , method of staining is that recommended by Rollett ( ' Wien .
Akad .
Denkschr .
, ' vol. 51 ) for alcohol-glycerine muscles .
This consists simply in the after-application of the gold-formic method to the tissue .
In place of treating the fresh muscle with chloride of gold and afterwards with formic acid , the alcohol muscle , which has been afterwards steeped in glycerine , is taken .
If fresh muscles are thus treated , the sarcoplasm alone is stained , the sarcostyles remaining colourless ( or they may be entirely dissolved by the action of the formic acid ) .
In this way , in the* leg-muscles , the often-described appearance of a , network is obtained .
But if the alcohol-glycerine muscle be taken , the reduction of the metal takes place in the sarcostyles , and almost exclusively in their dark bands , so that , while the interstitial sarcoplasm and the clear- bands of the sarcostyles remain clear and colourless , the dark bands of the sarcostyles are deeply coloured of a tint varying- from an intense purple-red to a faint purple-blue. .
Rollett recommends the application of this method to the study of the structure of the- leg-muscles , but it is still better-applicable to\gt ; that of the wing-muscles , since it brings out in them , with a clearness which , renders the application of the photographic method comparatively easy , points of structure which , up to the present , with the usual methods of investigation , have remained obscure .
efore describing the special points which are thus capable of e ncidations , it is necessary to adopt names for the several parts of the sarcostyle .
For the more or less cylindrical disk which forms the , hand I shall retain the name " sarcous element , " without ereby intending to imply that it accurately corresponds to the part \#171 ; 5n that name was originally applied by Bowman ; in a general ^ ^ kelieve that it will be found to do .
so .
The term represents , whole , the Querscheibe of the German , the disque of hrru*5^ aU^0rs ' The fine line which bisects the light band I shall teheibe *lransverse membrane " ( Querm , Krause ; Zwischen- ] .
* , .
01 German authors ; disque mince of French writers ) .
The Iran 8^\gt ; aCe 8eParating the ends of the sarcous elements from the the \#171 ; f86 3X16111 hranes may , for the present , be simply spoken of as 'f a ^ interval ; " it corresponds with the isotropous substance ban 'rS ^ie segment of a sarcostyle comprised between two Membranes may be termed " muscle-segment " or " sarco-The Wushellastchen , Krause ) .
varies .
a^1Ve aTnount of the sarcomere occupied by its several parts the t|g 1 ^3e degree of extension or retraction ( ?
contraction ) of which jg ' retracted condition ( figs. 1 and la ) the sarcostyle , relatively thick and moniliform , appears formed almost 282 Prof. E. A. Schafer .
On Minute Structure of the entirely of the sarcous elements , which are distinctly bulged , and are arranged closely succeeding one another with but narrow clear intervals between them .
In these very narrow cl ear intervals the later-ally-stretched and thinned-out transverse membranes cannot be seen unless the sarcous elements are forcibly dragged somewhat apart in the process of isolating them ; if this is done the .
transverse membranes become visible ( figs. 2 and 2a ) .
In moderately extended sarcostyles ( fig. 5 ) the sarcous elements are more separated from one another , the clear intervals being correspondingly longer and the transverse membranes distinct .
In greatly extended sarcostyles ( figs. 3 and 3a ) the sarcous elements are not only lengthened and much narrowed , but show a tendency to separate in the middle into two halves , leaving a space between them .
The clear intervals are also lengthened , and the transverse membranes are thickened ; the whole sarcostyle being narrowed .
It may be inferred , from the separation of the sarcous element , that it is really constituted of two halves , which in the retracted fibre abut against one another in the middle of the muscle segment , but in the extended fibre are separated from one another .
Indications of this separation can be made out even in the non-extended sarcous element , as in some of those represented in fig. 8 .
Whether or not there is a fine membrane between the two halves , as described by Hensen , my preparations do not enable me to determine .
Nor have I been able to observe in them the further separation , with still further extension , of separate disks ( accessory disks , Nebenscheiben ) from the ends of the sarcous elements , a separation which has been described and figured by several good observers .
In the preceding statements and descriptions there is nothing that is altogether novel or that has not been described with sufficient clearness by previous authors .
But the application of photography leaves no room whatever to doubt the accuracy of those descriptions .
There is , however , one essential point of structure which I have only seen clearly in preparations made by this method , and which is also distinctly shown in the photographs .
Various authors ( Wagener , Krause , Kolliker , van Gehuchten ) , as before said , have described a fibrillation of the sarcostyles of the wing-muscles ; or at least a longitudinal striation of the sarcous elements , with a dotted appearance of the transverse membranes .
This striation is very plain in several of those wing-sarcostyles which are here photographed , and also in all others which are similarly prepared .
It is even plainer under the microscope than in the photographs , because the mass of red-stained substance which forms the sarcous elements allows hardly any actinic light to reach the photographic plate , and the sarcous elements , when well stained , look , therefore , nearly uniformly black on the positive-It is very difficult , however , to trace the longitudinal striationsMuscle-Columns which form the Wing-Muscles of Insects .
283 through the clear intervals under the microscope , and I was at first disposed to believe that it was confined to the sarcous elements .
But the first photograph which was taken showed faintly , hut unmistakably , that it extended also through those intervals .
' This can also be detected at certain parts of those photographs which are here reproduced .
The longitudinal striation , therefore , although by far the most marked in the sarcous elements , extends through the whole length of the sarcostyle .
It might , therefore , be supposed to represent a fibrillation of the sarcostyle , and this is the view which has been taken by all previous authors who have noticed the appearance .
They have supposed the muscle-column to be constituted of a number of juxtaposed fibrils , each of which is composed of successive alternations of the substance composing the sarcostyle , each one , therefore , being composed , in the middle of each segment , of a rod-like portion of the sarcous element ; at either end of this , and continuous with it , of a portion of the substance of the clear interval ; and , lastly , at the ends of the segments , of a portion of the transverse membrane .
The sarcous element is , according to this view , formed by the juxtaposition of a number of rod-like elements , which are stained by haematoxylin and similar methods ( amongst which must be reckoned this alcohol-gold method ) ; the clear intervals being formed of continuations of these rod-like elements , which are , however , of a different chemical nature since they do not take these stains , and exhibit different optical properties ; and the transverse membranes of minute , dotlike elements having , again , different chemical and optical properties from the other parts .
( The accessory disks , since they are inconstant , may , in this brief preliminary communication , be left out of account .
) But the optical sections of the sarcostyles ( figs. 6 , 7a , 8 , and 8a ) , i.e. , more especially of their sarcous elements , which , in teased preparations of muscles prepared by the alcohol-gold method , are frequently set ree m the preparation , and are seen lying , as often as not , upon surface , show conclusively that the above supposition regarding fibrillar constitution of the sarcostyles is entirely erroneous .
The sarcous elements are not made up of a bundle of rods , but are ------ vyj Ml ouiiuio VJ A ~ *---med of a continuous substance ( ) , staining with \#169 ; matoxylin and with gold after hardening in alcohol , which sub-ftce *s pierced by tubular canals which open at each end of the bstcoub element , and in its middle abut against one another at the Hensen 's line .
The optical section of each sarcous element a ^ozen or more of such canals , and the contents of these reut8 are\gt ; appearance , freely continuous with the transpa0llj , \\#174 ; ' omrless substance of the clear intervals ; this can be made Bare*1* ^on8pludinal views .
The longitudinal striation of the ^ ^0US e^enaent is due to this canalisation ; that of the clear interval prolongation of delicate lines ( which may , perhaps , represent 284 Prof. E. A. Schafer .
On Minute Structure of the thin septa ) of the sarcous substance through the clear interval to th transverse membranes .
The whole sarcostyle appears to be enclosed by a membrane of extreme delicacy .
If we assume , as is to all appearance the case , that the substance of the clear interval is of a fluid or semi-fluid nature , the above view of the constitution of the sarcostyle , which is illustrated with unmi takable clearness in the photographs , enables one to form a tolerabl reasonable idea as to the physical change which may occur when th sarcostyle passes from the condition of extension to that of retraction .and vice versed .
Por if the sarcostyle be extended , the sarcous elements being narrowed and laterally compressed by the extending force the fluid which is contained in their canals will become squeezed out , and will pass into the clear intervals , while , at the same time , the process of extension will elongate the sarcous elements and separate them further from the transverse membranes .
With further extension , a separation of the careens element in the middle may also occur , some of the expressed fluid passing into the interval between the two halves.* On the other hand , when the extended sarcostyle becomes retracted ( ?
contracted ) , the sarcous elements swell and the clear intervals become shortened so as eventually almost to disappear .
This can only be effected by the absorption of the homogeneous substance of the clear intervals into the sarcous element , and in all probability it is imbibed into the canals or visible pores of the sarcous substance , The process may , in fact , be roughly compared with that which would occur with a series of pieces of sponge , placed at short intervals , in a thin-walled elastic tube filled with fluid .
If the tube were extended the fluid would be squeezed out of the pores of the sponge , and would go to increase the volume of tfchat in the intervals ; on relaxing the extending force , the fluid would be re-imbibed by the sponge , and the intervals would be diminished .
This comparison is not intended as an explanation of the mechanism of muscular contraction , but merely as an illustration of the physical changes which may reasonably be supposed to accompany the varying conditions of extension of the muscle .
The subject of this preliminary communication is treated of more fully m a detailed account of the structure of muscle which will shortly appear in the ' International Journal of Anatomy and Physio-lo8y* Since , in that account , I shall have occasion to refer at * This separation does not always occur with continued extension , for in the sarcostyle photographed in fig. 4 the sarcous elements of the extended part , oug they show the effect of traction in their elongation and narrowing , are not separated and contracted in the middle , as in the sarcostyle shown in fig. 3 , but are even slightly bulged at the centre .
There appears , howei er , a slight tendency for tLeir ends to separate as ( ?
accessory disks ) .
Muscle-Columns which form the Wing-Muscles of Insects .
285 considerable length to the views and statements of other recent writers on the same subject , and to indicate the bearings of these observations upon the wing-muscles on the more intricate subject of the structure of the leg-muscles of insects , and of the ordinary skeletal muscles of vertebrates , I have omitted such references and indications from the present notice .
I may simply state , however , that for reasons which are given at length in the article above referred to , I regard the structure of the wing-muscles of insects as furnishing the key to the understanding of muscular structure in general , and I believe that it is possible to draw a comparison detail for detail between the two kinds of muscle which shows a complete correspondence in all essential particulars .
Description m the Photographs .
( Plates 4 and 5 .
) All the figures upon these plates are photographs of parts of sarco-I styles of the wing-muscles of the common wasp , which had been prepared and stained by the method mentioned on page 281 .
In ; specimens thus prepared there is a considerable amount of variation in the degree to which the sarcostyles , and even the sarcous elements of the same sarcostyle , are swollen by the dilute formic acid , into which the muscle is placed after having been acted upon by gold j chloride .
This is noticeable in fig. 8 , a part of which is further :ji magnified in 8a , where , in the same sarcostyle , some of the sarcous elements are narrow , and others wide .
The latter do not , I believe , belong to contracted or retracted portions of the sarcostyle , but are merely more swollen by the acid , probably because they happened to be less fixed , i.e. , coagulated by the previous treatment with alcohol and gold .
It is noticeable also that these more swollen a sarcous elements are fainter in the photographs ; this is due to the fact that they are always of a bluish tint ; whereas the iess swollen sarcous elements are deep-red , and hence come out oearly black .
The former , however , show the longitudinal striation , ^e , i canalisation , better than the latter .
It must further be stated v that the extension of the sarcostyles shown in fig. 8 has been produced m teasing the preparation with needles by the demi-desiccation process ; it is quite different from the extension shown in figs. 3 and h which has been brought about in the living tissue prior to the [ i advent of the hardening fluid .
The sarcostyles represented in figs. } and 3 , and the lower part of fig. 4 , have been specially selected to illustrate the characteristic appearances of retraction ( ?
contraction ) ?
aild extension , because they were very distinctly red-stained and .
owed neither distortion from being swollen by acid nor dislocation lom mechanical stretching after hardening ; all the other sarcostyles .
shown in the photograph exhibit such distortion or disloca- 1 m to a greater or less extent .
286 On the Wing-Muscles of Insects .
Plate 4 .
Fig. 1 .
Part of a sarcostyle which has become fixed in n. retracted ( ?
contracted ) condition.\#151 ; Fig. la .
The same m ' magnified .
Fig. 2 .
Part of a retracted sarcostyle , showing a slight mechanical dislocation of some of the sarcons elements , which has been produced after hardening.\#151 ; Fig. 2a .
The same , more magnified Fig. 3 .
Part of an extended sarcostyle.\#151 ; Fig. 3a .
The same more magnified .
Fig. 4 .
Portion of a sarcostyle , which , at one end , is mnch extended , at the other moderately extended , these conditions having probably been present before hardening .
The middle part is somewhat dislocated , probably after hardening \#151 ; Fig.4a The same , more magnified .
Plate 5 .
Fig. 5 .
Parts of three moderately extended sarcostyles , with granules of the sarcoplasm lying between them .
Fig. 6 .
Part of two adjacent sarcostyles , somewhat swollen by the formic acid .
The upper terminal sarpous element of each one is swollen and flattened out , and is lying obliquely , having been probably touched by the needle in teasing the muscle .
These show , especially the right-hand one , the tubular structure of the sarcous elements .
Jig .
7 .
Two sarcous elements lying free : one is represented in profile , the other in optical section .
Fig. 8 .
Photograph of part of a microscopic field , containing a number of more or less broken-up sarcostyles , and showing several of the sarcous elements lying flat , and others in profile .
The tubular or canalised structure is very evident , ( The | globules represented are oil-drops which had accidently got I into the glycerine in which the specimen was mounted .
) Fig. 8a .
Middle part of the above photograph , enlarged ; s , s , sarcous elements in profile view .
Those to which the letters aie adjacent show the line where separation occurs when the sarcostyle is extended ( as in figs. 3 and 3a ) .
Some of the other ( bluer ) acid-swollen elements , which come out less darkly in the photograph , exhibit the canalisation better , s ' , s ' , sarcous elements seen on the flat , i.e. , in optical section ; o , o , acci-dental oil-globules .
Figs. 1 to 8 are photographs taken with Zeiss 's P30 aperture , \#171 ; mm. homogeneous achromatic objective , and with projection ocular .
They are magnified 870 diameters .
Figs , la , 2a , 3a , Ac .
, are enlargements from the same negatives .
They represent the tissue elements magnified 2300 diameters .
ocn\amp ; '\amp ; ' ' u / 1/ U71U/ .
WO .

