Fig. jA Fig. 4 .
zBWCG TS~g ycz L BE Bb Fig. 6D ~M~SRTNn A A GC~ nth NTHo u h Fig. 3 .
p A Fig. 5 .
QO ~kg C ~kGc B d~ mPK ~RrSM f DEe An easy Mechanical Way to divide the Nautical Meridian Line in Mercator 's Projection ; with an Account of the Relation of the same Meridian Line to the Curva Catenaria .
By J. Perks , M. A. THE most useful Projection of the Spheric Surface of Earth and Sea for Navigation , is that commonly called Mercator 's ; tho ' its true Nature and Construction is said to be first demonstrated by our Countryman Mr. Wright , in his Correction of the Errors in Navigation .
In this Projection the Meridians are all parallel Lines , not divided equally , as in the common plain Chart ( which is therefore erroneous , ) but the Minutes and Degrees ( or strictly , the Fluxions of the Meridian , ) at every several Latitude are proportional to their respective Secants .
Or a Degree in the projected Meridian at any Latitude , is to a Degree of Longitude in the Equator , as the Secant of the same Latitude is to Radius .
The Reason of which Enlargement of the Elements of Latitude is , to counterbalance the Enlargement of the Degrees of Longitude .
For in this Projection , the Meridians being all parallel , a Degree of Longitude at ( suppose ) 60 Deg .
Lat. is become equal to a Degree in the Equator , whereas it really is ( on the Globes Surface ) but half as much , the Radius of the Parallel of 60 Deg ( that is its Cosine ) being but half the Radius of the Equator .
Therefore to proportion the Degrees of Latitude to those of Longitude , a Degree ( or Elemental Particle ) in the Meridian , is to be as much greater than a Degree ( or like Particle ) in the Equator , as the Radius of the Equator is greater than the Radius of the Parallel of Latitude , viz. its Cosine .
In Fig. 3 let the Radius CD represent half of the Equator , DM an Arc of the Meridian ; MS its Sine , CE its Secant ; then is CS equal to its Cosine : and C S : C M : : CD ( ~ C M ) : C E , that is , as Cosine : to Radius : : so is Radius : to Secant .
The Cosines being then , in this Projection , supposed all equal to Radius , or ( which comes to the same ) the Parallels of Latitude being all made equal to the Equator , the Radius of the Globe , at every point of Latitude , ( by the precedent Analogy ) is supposed equal to the Secant of Latitude ; and consequently the Elements ( Minutes , &amp;c. ) of the Meridian must be proportional to their respective Secants .
The Way Mr. Wright takes for making his Table of Meridional Parts , is by a continual Addition of Natural Secants , beginning at 1 Minute , and so proceeding to 89 Deg .
Dr. Wallis ( in Phil. Trans. No. 176 .
) finds the Meridional Part belonging to any Latitude by this Series , putting S for its Natural Sine , viz. S+ 1/ 3 S3 + 1/ 5 S5 + 1/ 7 S7 + 1/ 9 S9 &amp;c. which gives the Merid. part required .
How to find the same Mechanically by means of an easily constructed Curve Line , is what I shall now show .
1 .
Prepare a Rular AB ( Fig. 2 .
) of a convenient Length , in which let Bo be equal to the Radius of the intended Projection .
To the Point o as a Center ( on the narrower Edge of the Rular ) fasten a little Plate-Wheel wh tight to the Rular , and of a Diameter a little more than the thickness of the Rular .
Let KR ( Fig. 3~ ) represent another long Rular , to which ARE is a perpendicular Line .
Place the Rular AB upon the Line A R , with the Ceter of the Wheel at A. Then with one Hand holding fast the Rular K R , with the other Hand slide the end B of the Rular AB by the Edge of K R ; so will the little Wheel wh describe on the Paper a Curve Line AC B , to be continued as far as is convenient .
2 .
Having drawn the Curve AC B , draw a straight Line K~R by the Edge of the Rular K R : which Line is the Meridian to be divided , and also an Asymptote to the Curve AC B. 3 .
In this Meridian , ( accounting R to be the Point of its Intersection with the Equator , ) the Point answering to any Degree of Latitude is thus found .
In the perpendicular A R , make RG equal to the Cosine of Latitude ( Radius being A R , ) and from G draw GC parallel to K R , and intersecting the Curve in C. With Center C and Radius CM=A R , strike an Arc cutting the Meridian at M ; so is M the Point desired .
4 .
In the Curve A C , let c be a Point infinitely near to C , and c m , ( = C M , ) a Tangent to the Curve at c , making the little Angle MC m , to which let the Angle RAr be equal : so is Rr=Md ( a Perpendicular from M to c m. ) Draw CD equal and parallel to A R , intersecting KR in S. With Center C and Radius CD draw the Arc D M , and its Tangent DE and Secant C E. 5 .
Because of the like Triangles CD E , Md m ; C D : C E : : M d : M m , that is , as Radius to Secant of the Arc D M , ( whose Cosine is CS=G R , ) : : so is Md ( = Rra Degree or Particle of the Equator : ) to Mm the Fluxion or correspondent Particle of the Meridian Line R M. Whence , and from what is premised concerning the Nature of this Nautical Projection , it is evident that RM is the meridional Part answering to the Latitude whose Cosme is G R. Or thus ; With Center R and Radius ARE describe the Quadrant A~ ~ , in which let the Arc A~ be equal to the given Lat. From ~ draw ~C parallel to K R , and intersecting the Curve in C , so is C~ the Meridional Part desired being equal to R M , as is easy to show .
As to the other Properties of this Curve , tis evident , from its Construction , that itsTangent ( as C M ) is a Constant Line every where equal to A R ; the Curve being generated by the Motion of the Wheel at the End of the Rular which is its Tangent .
And from hence the Curve ACB may , for distinction , be called the Equitangential Curve .
7 .
The Fluxion of the Area ARMC is the little Sector or Triangle MC d , which same is also the Fluxion of the Sector CD M : whence the Areas ARM C , CDM are equal , and the whole Area ACB &amp; c , KMR being infinitely continued , is equal to the Quadrant ARE ~ : 8 .
To find the Radius of Curvature of any Particle , as C c , from C draw an indefinite Line CT perpendicular to C M , ( on the concave side of the Curve ) and from c another Line perpendicular to c m , which Lines , ( because of the Inclination of CM to c m , ) will somewhere meet as at T , making an Angle CTc=MC m. These Angles being equal , their Radii are proportional to their Arcs : therefore , M d : C c : : M C : C ~ .
But Cc=dm ( because of CM=c m ) so that M d : dm ( : : C D : D E ) : : C M : C T. But CD=C M , therefore CT=DE= Tangent of the Arc D M. 9 .
So that supposing ATta Curve Line in which are all the Centers of Curvature of the Particles of AC B , any point as T being found as before , the Length AT ( by the nature of Evolution of Curves , ) is every where equal to the Tangent of its correspondent Circular Arc D M. The Point T is also found by making MT perpendicular to R M , and equal to the Secant C E : for so is the Angle CMT=MC D ; and the Triangle MCT equal to the Triangle CD E. 10 .
Let AHh be an Equilater Hyperbola whose Semiaxis is ARE and Center R. In the Meridian let RP be equal to the Tangent D E. Join A P , and draw PH= APP and parallel to A R. Complete the Parallelogram HNR P , so will the Point H be in the Hyperbola , and its ordinate HN ( = RP=DE=C T ) be equal to the Curve AT t. From whence , and from Prop. 3~ Coroll. 2 .
of Dr. Gregory 's Catenaria ( Phil. Trans. N. 231~ ) it appears that the Curve ATt is that called the Catenaria or Funicularia , viz. the Curve into whose Figure a slack Cord or Chain naturally disposes its self by the Gravity of its Particles .
11 .
Hence we have another Property of the Catenaria not hitherto taken notice of ( that I know of , ) viz. that supposing ARE ( = a , the constant Line in Dr. Gregory ) equal to the Radius of the Nautical Projection , and RN the Secant of a given Latitude , then is NT the Catenaria 's Ordinate at N , equal to RM the Meridional Part answering to the Latitude whose Secant is R N. 12 .
That TA is the Catenaria is also demonstrable from Dr. Gregory 's first Prop. Let Tu be the Fluxion of the Ordinate N T ; and tu ( = N n ) the Fluxion of the Axe A N. Then because of like Triangles TC M , Tu t , C M : CT ( = T A ) : : T u : u t , that is , as CMa constant Line to TA the Curve : : so is the Fluxion of the Ordinate , to that of the Axe ( y : x ) according to Prop. 1 .
Catenariae .
13 .
From the Premises the Construction and several Properties of the Catenaria are easily deducible ; one or two of which I 'll set down .
1 .
The Area ATMR is equal to AOPRa Rectangle contained by Radius ARE and RP the Tangent answering to Secant HP=T M. For because of the like Triangles CM m , CE e ; C M : C E : : M m : E e , that is , putting r , s , t , m for Radius , Secant , Tangent and Meridional part R M. ) r : s : : m : t whence rt=s m , and all the rt= all the s m , that is AOPR=ATM R , which agrees with Dr. Gregory 's Cor. 5 .
of Prop. 7 .
14 .
Supposing the former Construction , let be added the Line R H , including the Hyperbolic Sector ARE H. I say the same Sector is equal to half the Rectangle ARMQ contained by Radius ARE and the Meridional Part R M , ( = 1/ 2 r m ) , For the Sector ARH= Triangle RNH wanting the Semisegment AN H. The Fluxion of the Triangle RNH is st+t s/ 2 .
The Fluxion of ANH is t s. So the Fluxion of the Sector ARH is st+t s/ 2 ts=stt s/ 2~ It is found before ( Sect. 13 .
) that r : s ( s : s s/ r ) : : m : t ; whence st=s s/ r m. And because of the like Triangles CDEEf e , C D : D E : : E f : f e. But Ef=Mm= m , because both Of and Mm are to Md in the same Reason , viz. as s to r ; therefore r : t ( t : t t/ r ) : : m : s : whence ts=t t/ r m , and stt s/ 2 = sst t/ 2 rm=r r/ 2 rm= 1/ 2 r m , = the Fluxion of the Hyperbolic Sector ARE H , whose flowing Quantity is therefore equal to 1/ 2 rm= 1/ 2 ARM Q. Q. E. D. 15 , This shows another Property of the Catenaria , viz. that it squares the Hyperbola ; for RM is equal to NT the Ordinate of the Catenaria .
16 .
In Fig. 4 .
Let ARE be Radius , ACB the Equitangential Curve ; MRN its Asymptote , in which let M , N , be any two Points equally distant from R. Upon M draw ML parallel to ARE and equal to the Difference of the Secant and Tangent of that Latitude whose Meridional Part is RM ( by ~ 3 , 4~ ) Upon N draw NO parallel to A R , and equal to the Sum of the foresaid Secant and Tangent .
Do thus from as many Points in the Asymptote as is convenient , and a Curve drawn equably through the Points LA O , &amp;c. will be a Logarithmic Curve , whose Subtangent ( being constant ) is equal to Radius A R. 17 .
Let no be an Ordinate infinitely near and parallal to N O. Op=Nn the Fluxion of the Asymptote ; OT the Tangent , and TN the Subtangent to the Logarith .
Curve in O. Then o p : p O : : O N : N T. But ON=s+ t ; therefore op=s+ t. pO=m ( the Fluxion of the Meridian or Asymptote .
) So the Analogy is s+ t : m : : s+ t : N T. By Sect. 13 , 14 , s : m : : t : r : also , t : m : : s : r. and thence s+ t : m : : t+ s : r. wherefore is NT ( the Subtangent to LA O ) equal to Radius ARa constant Line , and consequently the Curve LAO is the Logarithmic Curve , and its Subtangent known .
18 .
The same Demonstration serves for L M , ( any Ordinate on the other Side of A R ) only changing the Sine + into - ; and then it agrees with Mr. James Gregory 's Prop. 3 .
page .
17~ , of his Exercitations , viz. That the Nautical Meridian is a Scale of Logarithms of the Differences whereby the Secants of Latitude exceed their respective Tangents , Radius being Unity .
So here RM is the Logarithm of M L , the Difference of the Secant and Tangent of the Latitude whose Meridional part is R M. 19 .
Supposing the precedent Construction , if through any point C of the Curve ACB be drawn a right Line GCW parallel to M R , terminated with the Logarithmic Curve in W and the Radius ARE in G : I say that the same right Line WG is equal to the intercepted part of theCurve Line A C. 20 .
Let wg be a Line infinitely near and parallel to W G , and terminated by the same Lines ; and C S , W ~ , perpendicular to the Meridian ; CS intersecting wg in z , and W~ in y. Let CM be a Tangent to AC in C ; W~a Tangent to AWE in W ; so is CM=~ ~ .
Because of like Triangles Cz c , CS M ; and Wy w , W~ ~ ; C S : C M : : C z : C c : also W ~ : ~ ~ : : W y : y w. But W~=C S ; ~~=C M ; Cz=W y ; therefore is yw the Fluxion of G W , equal to Cc the Fluxion of the Curve A C. Consequently GW=A C. q. e. d. It may be noted that this Equitangential Curve gives the Quadrature of a Figure of Tangents standing perpendicular on their Radius .
In Fig. 3 .
let A~~ be a Curve whose Ordinates as g ~ , G ~ , are equal to the Tangents of their respective intercept Arcs A k , A x. Let ~G be produced to touch the Curve AC in C : then is the Area A~G equal to the Rectangle contained by Radius ARE and GC the produced part of the Ordinate ; or A~G= AR~G C. The Demonstration of which , and of the following Section , I for Brevity omit .
22 .
If we suppose the Figure ACB &amp;c. KR ( Fig. 3 .
) infinitely continued , to be turned about its Asymptote RK as an Axe , the Solid so generated will be equal to rectangled Cone whose Altitude is equal to A R. And its Curve Surface will be equal to half the Surface of a Globe whose Radius is A R. So that if the Curve be continued both ways infinitely ( as its Nature requires ) the whole Surface will be equal to that of a Globe of the same Radius A R. The Description of the Rular and Wheel , Fig. 2 .
is sufficient for the Demonstration of the Properties of the Curve : but in order to an actual Construction for Use , I have added Fig. 5 .
where AB is a brass Rular ; wh the little Wheel , which must be made to move freely and tight upon its Axe ( like a Watch-Wheel ) the Axe being exactly perpendicular to the Edge of the Rular .
s represents a little Screw-pin to set at several Distances for different Radii , and its under End is to slide by the Edge of the other fixed Rular .
p is a Stud for convenient holding the Rular in its Motion .
Note , Most of these Properties of this Curve by the Name of la Tractrice , are to be found in a Memoir of M. Bomie among those of the Royal Academy of Sciences for the Year 1712 .
but not published till 1715 : Whereas this Paper of Mr. Perks was produced before the Royal Society in May 1714 , as appears by their Journal .

