]\gt ; 1895 .
] On the obtained from Uraninite .
113 The law enunciated above may also be stated in the folloving The increment of each unit of chemical due to a rise of temperature val.ies a , s the increment of each unit of absolute tempeThis law is expressed by the formula Chemical Eqnilibriu A cftse of equilibrium between the reactions leads to a discussion of the general equations of chemica ] equilibrium given in an appendix to the paper .
rhese equations are employed to interpret the results of experiments published by Dr. in tho Transactions of the Royal Society ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. rfhey had been iously applied to the case of chemical ( investigated by Professor Dixon in a ) paper published vol. of the Transactions of the Royal Society , the reactions in that case being The .
Papers were also read : \mdash ; .
" " On the from Uraninite .
Note By J. NORIIAN LOCKYER , C.B. , F.R.S. Beceived lfay 8 , 1895 .
Since my communication on the gas obtained from uraninite was sent into the Society , on the 25th uItimo , I have been the method I there referred to in several ections , mong them to determine whether the spectrum of the gas indicates a himple or a complex origin .
I as led to make this special inquiry on account of the difference the frequency of the appearance of and the other lines to which I referred in the previous communication in solar chl'omosphere .
For instance , if we take the lines , 4471 , and 4302 , the frequencies are as follows , according tu :\mdash ; * Sce ' Solar Physics , ' Lockyer , p. 612 .
Prof. J. N. Lockyer .
[ May 9 , 100 ( maximum ) Hence we might be justified in supposing that and 4471 are produced by the same gas , while it was probable that 4302 owed its origin to a different one .
further experiment has given me one case in which shows bright , while 4471 is entirely absent .
I may now add that an equally important line to 4471 , one at , with the dispersion employed , appears in the spectrum of broggerite , and both these lines are wide and fluffy , like the lines of hydrogen , and are apparently reversed .
The line has not en recorded by Young , though , as I have stated , the fi.equency of appearances of represeIts the maximum ; still , while this is so , the intensity of both these in the spectra of the hottest stars is not surpassed even by those of hydrogen .
Hence , opiniori as to their representing the same gas must be suspeIlded .
Further , I have photographed a line at 4388 , apparently coincident another important line in the same stars .
Whether coming from one source or two , in these three lines seen along with in the gas obtained by me from broggerite , we have , it would seem , run home the most important lines in the spectra of stars of Group in which stars aIone we find reversed .
Should these results be coufirmed , the importance of the gas or gases they represent , at a certain stage of the evolution of suns and planets , will be gathered from the photograph of Bellatrix , accompanying the following Note .
Another case is aftorded by a line a ; this is associated with in broggerite and cleveite , but the yellow line has been seen in monazite without .
It is almost certain , then , that these lines represent two gases .
Certainty cannot be arrived at till a larger quantity of gas has been obtained .
Again the red line at 6575 , close to , referred to in my previous communication , is seen both in gummite and , but in one case ( gummite ) it is seen without , and in the other it ; in one case ( broggerite ) without , and in the obher with it .
The above conclusions here also .
This line , possibly coincident with a chromospheric line , has been recorded in gummite and broggerite .
It has been seen with ( iu broggerite ) and without it ( in gnmmite ) .
I have said enough to indicate that the preliminary reconnaissance suggests that the gas obtained from broggerite , by my , is one of complex origin .
1895 .
] On Gas obtained from ll5 I now proceed to show that the same conclusion holds good for the gases obtained by Professors Ramsay and Cleve from cle For this purpose , as the final measures of the lines of the as obtained from cleveite by Professors Ramsay and Cleve have not yet been published , I take those given by Crookes , Cleve , as observed by Thalen .
These are as follows , omitting the yellow line:\mdash ; ookcs .
The Jllost definite and slrikiug resuIt so obtained is in the spectra of the minerals giving yellow line I have so far examined , I lave never once soon the recorded by Crookes and in the blue .
rfhis demonstrates that the gas obtained from certain specimens of cleveitc by chemical methods is vastly different from that by my method from specimens of broggerite , nnd since , from point of view of the blue lines , the spectrum of the from cleveite is more complex than that of broggerite , the gas itself callnot be more simple .
Even the blnlc lines themselves , instead of appearing en bloc , enormously in the sun , the appearances 4922 times .
4713 wice .
These are not the only facts which can be adduced to suggest that the , from cleveite is as complex as that from broggerite , but while , on the one hand , the simple nature of the gases obtained by Professors Ramsay and Cleve , and by myself , must be iven up , reasoning on specfi.oscopic Iines , the observations I have already made on several minerals indicate that the gases the lnixtnres are by no means the only ones we may hope to obtain .
This part of the inquiry will be mol.e specially considered in a subsequent communication .
I may remark in conclusion , that in this preliminary inquiry no * ' Nature , ' vol. 51 , p. 544 .
'Comptes Rendus , ' April 16 , p. S35 .
Prof. J. N. Lockyer .
[ May 9 , attempt has been made to separate the possibly new gases from the known ones which come over with them ; hence , the lines are in some cases very , and the application of high dispersion is impossible .
The wave-lengths therefore , especially in the visible spectrum , are approximations only ; but the view that we are really dealing with gases operative in solar atmosphere , like the helium which prodnces , is strengthened by the fact that of the sixty lines so far recorded as new in the various minerals examined , about half near the wave-lengths assigned to chromospheric lines in Young 's table .
I am aware that most of the chron1ospheric have been recently referred to as due to iron , I believe this sulb does not depend upon direct comparisons , and it is entirely opposed to the conclusions to be drawn from the work of the Italian observers , as well as from my owll .
II .
" " On the new Gas obtained from Uraniuite .
Third Note By J. NORMAN , F.R.S. Received May 9 , 1895 .
In my preliminary note communicated to Royal Society on the 25th , I gave the wave-lengths of the lines which had been observed both at reduced and aatmospheric pressure in the gas ( or gases ) produced by the method to which I then referred of heating the uraninite mineral ( brogge1ite ) vacuo .
As a short tille in future , I shall term this the distillation method .
Since the various photographs obtained have been reduced , and the wave-lengths of the lines in the structure spectrum of hydrogen obsel.ved beyond the region mapped by Hasselberg .
I further observed the spectra of other minerals besides uraninite for the purpose of whether any of tbem gave lines indicating the presence of the gas in uraninite or of other gases .
I now give a table of the lines so far measured in the spectra of eighteen minerals between 3889 and 4580 ( Rowland ) , the region in which , with the plates employed , the photographic action is most intense .
On this table I may remark that of the lines givcn in my paper of Apri125 , final discussion has shown that the following lines are hydrogen structure-lines in the region beyond that mapped by berg , 4479 , 4196 , 4156 , and .
The line 4368 is also from this list as it has not been finally determined whether it coincides with a line of oxygen .
the table , besides the wave-lengths on Angstrom 's and Bowland 's scale , 1 give lines which have been observed in the sun 's ' Astl.onomical S ' Frost 's translation , p. 184 .

