]\gt ; The ofGroups of in , with Application to produced by T. H. HAVELOCK , M.A. , D.Sc .
, ellow of St. 's College , Lecturer in Applied natics , College , Newcastle-on-Tyne .
( Communicated by Prof. J. Larmor , Sec. R. .
Received August 26 , \mdash ; Read November 19 , 1908 .
) CONTENTS .
SECTION PAGE 1 .
Introduction 398 2 .
Definition of Simple Group 399 3 .
The Fourier Integral rega1ded as a Collection Groups 400 Damped nonic W 401 ( b ) InterI U Simple Wave-train 402 4 .
Features or the ralS I 403 5 .
Line Displacement ) ) Water 404 6 .
Initial Displacement of Finite readth 406 7 .
Limited Train of Oscillations 407 8 .
Initial ilse on Deep 410 9 .
Moving Line Impulse on ) Water 411 10 .
Surface WnveH 413 11 .
Water Waves due to Gravity and Capillarity 416 12 .
Surface Waves in Two Dimensions 415 13 .
Point Impulse Travelling over Deep Water 417 ( a ) The TrRnsyerse Svsteln 418 The ) Wave System 420 ( c ) The Line of 421 14 .
Point Impulse for ) 15 .
Impulse Moving on Water of Finite Depth 426 S1 .
nction .
The object of paper is to strate the my features of ) xation i. In the case of surface waves on deep watel renlal k earlier ators c the difficul proble ] of the ] !
of all itrary initial disturl ) ance as expl e a Fourier integral , developed subse ation of a single elelnent of their an train of rnlonic waves .
point of view on ] is consists of a return to ourier i the elenlenr , of disturbance is not a ) harmonic ) , an of siInple } ains c a ivel possible to select from l of Groups of in , etc. 399 he few simple groups that are important , and hence to isolate the chief features , if , in the phenomena .
In certain of the following sections well-known results nppear ; the aim las eeIl to develop these from the present point of view , and so illustrate he dependence of the phenomena npo11 the character of the velocity function .
the other sections it is hoped that ress has been made in theory the ation of an arbitrary initial ( roup of waves , and also of the haracter of the wave pattern from a point ulse t on he surface .
S2 .
of Sintpfc We have to consider the translnission of disturbances in a for which the velocity of ation of eneons simple ] ) wave- , rains is a deiinite fmlction of the .
The kinematically rroup of waves is composed of only two simple trains , of by an infinitesimal amount then with the usual ve have for the ined effect , ( 1 ) where .
( 2 ) The ession ( may be regarded as at any instant a , whose amplitude varies slowly with to the , lirst cosine factor .
Thus it does not lepresent a which oves forward ; but it has a certain periodic , for the at ttny given instant is repeated after equal intel v of time , acedo 1 ) forward equal distances .
The ratio of these quantities , namely , is called the group-velocity .
It has also the , : in the ( hbourhood of an observer travelling with velocity the disturl ) ance continues to be approxi1nately a train of simple waves of The most feneral simple , or elementary , may be defined in the ving manner .
Let the central be a sinlplc harmonic of , and let the other be similar whose a ) litude , length , and velocity differ but slightly fiotl the central ) ' ; then , similar approximation , have Dr. T. H. Havelock .
T'he of [ Aug. 26 The of values of infinitesimal , roup as a whole may written , in the previous case , in ( 4 is a slowly ; and the -velocity is iven by .
The group , to an observer travelling with velocity , appears as consistin of roximately simple of .
The sinrple roup is , in fac ated as an nately homogelleons simple wave-train ; the impo ] tance of t , he yroul)-velocity lies in the fact that any departure fro1 eneity on a nple wave-train , due to local variation of amplitude phase , is ated with ] the velocity U. .
Intcgral ' as a Collcction of An disturbance CftIl , in , be analysed by Fourier 's metho into a collection of simple wave-trains ran over possible values of thus after a time the disturbance ) iven by an expression of the typ , ( 6 where is a given function of The method adopted with is based on Lord treat meant of the case , in -ich the amplitude factol is a constant , so that solution of } is lcted tesent the subseque1l effect of an initial disturbance which is inhnitelv intense , and concentl'ated il a line the origin ; Lord Kelvin 's process boives an approximat suitable times and ) laccs such that is , and argument may be stated in the following llanner:\mdash ; In the dispersive medium the -trains included in each element of the varying } ) ] destructive , except when -hey in the same and so cnlnulativ ' the time under consideration , when the meant of the is stntionary in vadue .
each as regards period , in the integral .
represents a which cept around a point which itsel Now if we this ethod to the more .
W. Tholnson , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc vol. 42 , p. 80 .
1908 .
] Groups of , etc. expression for the total urbance , attending only to its prominent features and , the rest , provided we aSSUUle the of the amplitude factor to be gradual .
On this hypothesis the resulting expression contains ] amplitude of the component trtIins simply as a factor ; and in this way the trains for which it is a maxinlnm show predominantly in the formula , which exhibits the nlain features of the disturbance as they arise from place to place though cunlulation of synchronous component trains .
The ument shows that in some respects the integral ( 6 ) may be more conveniently arded ns a collection of travelling instead of sinple wave-trains ; when ( is a slowly function , the ) will be simple groups of the type ( 3 ) .
The limitations within which this is the case will appear from the subsequent nalysis ; one method of procedure would be boraphical : to take a graph of the fluctuating factor and see that the other factor , which is taken constant , does not vary much within the range that is important for the In the cases we shall examine , the effect is due to a limited initiaI disturbance , and the salient features are due to the circumstance that has well-defined maxima ; thus the prominent part of the effect can be expressed in the form of simple groups belonging to the neighbourhood of the maxima .
Before considel.ing in detail special cases with assigned forms of the velocity function , two illustrations of interest may be mentioned .
( a ) harlit \mdash ; If is a function satisfying the conditions for the Fourier transformation , we have For an even function of this ives , where .
( 7 ) let ) an fun ction of ( / , defined for all values , and such that it is equal to for positive ; ) we find ( 8 ) Consider this function the initial value of a disturbance occurs in a dispelsive lnedium ; then the value of at can be ressed , in eneral , by ( 9 ) .
T. H. Hayelock .
of [ Aug. 26 , are constants which need not be specified further in the connection .
These ] are of type and represent infinite in the ) ( sitive and aCiv ecctions respectively .
We see ( S ) that when is small , the amplitnde factor consists practically of single well-defined ) in the of the value .
Hence , the coefficient is sJllall , -trains in question may considered as in the form of a roup of uIlchanging waves this specified structure .
example serves to illustrate the ) ation of a very train harnlonic }aves s ) .
as they travel to a small danlpi coefficient , and is of interest in connection with Lord ayleigh 's enera proof that -velocity is the vclocit with which energy is A small coefficient is introduced by him , so tha the transmitted is ined b the dissipated ; the argumen which of loses its neaning if is actually , shows that when ifished indefinitely the rate of transmission of approaches as limiting .
SimilarJy , the Fourier transformation is inapplicabl when is aetnally zero , lnfer from the above analysis that when is dJle as a simple group of definite structure .
( b ) cider an disturbanc defined by , .
Then disturbance is prcssio of the form ( 9 ) , in which , so the initial ) ance to an infinite with narrow that t of factor is the to in of the vadue .
We infer from that a } ) is intell.upte i , s kin ) equivalent to a ) of , of lcfillite stluclre valne of the length .
Lord , ' .
lslath .
Soc vol. 9 , p. 24 ( 1908 .
] of in Dispersire , etc. S4 .
's of the The inteoralso we have to consider in such problems are of the type .
( 11 ) All such integrals we can treat in the sa1ne manner , adopting the method employed ) Lord Kelvin for the particular case referred to above ( S.3 ) .
This method consists in supposing that is , so that the cosine factor is a rapidly quantity compared with the first factor ; thus , as in the Fresnel discussion of the diffraction of light waves , Che prominent part of the of the integral is contained within a small of , for which is stationary in value , so that the elements are then cumulative .
In other words , we select from ( 11 ) the roup or roups of terms round values ?
of which make .
( 12 ) In such a roup of terms we may .
Then if we write for , the contribution of the group to the value of ( 11 ) by , ( 13 ) where the limits of the integral may be in eneral extended , as in diffraction theory , , provided does not coincide with either limit of the integral ( 11 ) , and also proyided that is not zero .
Thus we have , from ( 13 ) , / ?
This is the sum of the contributions of the constituents of each around a central value iveu by ( 12 ) , provided the value comes within the of values of in the .
If is ative , corresponding result may written We write down for reference the similar pair of results for a group of terms from the .
( 16 ) Dr. T. H. Havelock .
The gation of [ Aug. 26 , Tf is positive , / ?
; and if is ative , .
( 18 ) The chief form in which such trals occur is , where .
( 19 ) The principal groups are iven by the values such that , or U. ( 20 ) The value of the can written down from one of the previous forms ; if is ative , should .
( 21 ) As an illustrative example we may supposc a disturbance to be iven at time by expression* .
( 22 ) When is , the elementary iven by ( 22 ) reinforce each other ] for the groups beriven by valnes for which the oument of the cosine is stationary , so that .
( 23 ) This equation ( 23 ) defines a velocity such that to an observer from the igin and with velocity complex disttlrbance has the earance of simple waves of 1-ength .
Or , we ma } ' regard ( 23 ) as the predominant value of at any position and tinle in terms of and features of the bance depend on the form ] of the velocity ; we proceed to consider some ) ecial forms .
S 5 .
Iinp ) on cp consider surface waves on lited sleet of water , the only odily forees ) those travity .
, and the bo vertically .
Let be the tion of slllfnce waves of snlall nnplitude with parallel crests and to the -planc .
It be shown that for an initial displace*Lord Kelvin , loc. cit. 1908 .
] Groups of in Disper .
Media , etc. meant iven by without initial velocity , the surface fornl at any subsequent time is iven by where .
( Let be any even function of which can be analysed by Fourier 's integral theorem .
Then , to an initial surface displacement ) , without innitial velocity , there is a surface form given at any subsequent time by where If we suppose the initial elevation to be limited practically to a line through the and assume that , so that , we can use , as an illustration of the procedure , the form We select from these integrals the groups which give the chief ular features at large distances from the original disturbance .
This cumulative group from the first integral is iven for a ooiven position and tinle by the value of for which is stationary , where , so th ; and , similarly , from the second by Thus there groups of waves proceeding in the two directions from the ; for positive we need only consider the first in second redominant } at a point at time is iven by this predominant group by means of ) ression ( , we tain the known result .
At a given position , far from the source for the train to taken Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Propagation of [ Aug. 26 as unliJuited , this indicates oscillations succeeding each other with frequency and amplitude ; if we follow a of waves with value of varies scly as , or inversely as ( root of ) S 6 .
of If 1 is the } } ithin which the placement is ensible , ious results hold ' s1uall ; fn1ther , as Cauchy showed , nlnst ) sDlall if the function of is to be taken as constanl Prof. has ) nate equations for the surface form du to linnited initial ) accnlents not confilled to an 1larrow strip .
From the present point of view , such lesults can be recovere simply by from the integl.flls the nore impol troups of waves .
Lct the initial ) ) given ) , ( 30 where be supposed small .
Then Hence from the surface form is .
( 31 For oints at some distance the in }hich the bance valic3 with the cosine term thus we consider the rals as ) up of sinlple roups .
For ositive we need only considel the The vadue of is thus connected with and by the sam equation ) as ) efore .
Since ater al1lplitudes are associated with the of .
the reatel .
values of , it is clea that , at a ) ticular point , dies its maximunl at up to it .
( the ) resuJts the as .
The call be deduc.ed .
The cosine } aries aled titor s may the llaximum considi the latter alone ; it is easily this occurs whelt , ' Pro Loud .
, , p. ( 1904 ) .
W. , : .
Lond. Math. Soc vol. 20 , 1 ) .
22 ( lb88 ) .
1908 .
] xroups of in Media , etc. Thus the maximum is out with uniform velocity ; and we see that in its hbourhood the predominant is Let the initial displacement have a constant value A oyer of breadth , and be zero at all other points ; then we have Hence the surface elevation is .
( 33 ) With the same umenl as before , we consider the value of at a point as due to the important of a succession of ) groups , one , , for which the ument is so ) } ) oneIlts reinl.orce over a considerab ] oi can down , from the revious results , an expression for this group which and at least in the vicinity of the ) of the ance .
We , ( 34 ) corresponding to 1'urnside 's result in the ) already cited .
Here have a of nlaxima given those of , that is , at times ) CJiven by , where ) ) .
period of the gloup that is thus cumulative is different for different localities , and for ent tiIIles at the saute locality : ) the accumulation is prominent only for tinles and ) lnaximunl value to the amplitude , which has been raphed for the next example in fig. 1 .
The maxima here diminish continually in alue , and are ated each with unil.orm velocity , namely , the roll )-velocity to the predominant wave-lel } in the hbourhood .
S 7 .
Train of Simplc Another interesting example is the case of an illitial displacement of a limited of simple harnlonic oscillations .
If is synlmelical with respect to the o zero except wavewithin which it is A , we have ( 35 ) Hence , , have the surface elevation , of which wo write down Dr. T. H. Havelock .
agation of [ Aug. 26 , only the necessary for in the direction of positive , is , If is very , the main fcattl .
C consists of the component waves round : but in eneral it ; to noticed that a series of ) sidiary ponents a whose effects ] ) .
of fnitnde to be .
But the component are ctlllulalie only of and such ) which is the to ument of the cosine ; thus the linent effect at time , of ] of alncter be ties where the value , or , else , a to one of ) iary naxima .
Th result may be in the manner as before , we find can prominent eferl e to , which this in olves , ) the nlaxilna of the amplitude function .
( 38 ) The ornl of this function is shown by 1 ; it is ) tained 1 ) the Ctlrv is roportional to , and , \ldquo ; to 1 COll.esponds to equal The lepresents the of the disttl.bance at a given point ith the the local ions of last cosine factor in ( 37 ) ; it sh tion ccment C .
complete of } ) of } istu rrlce 1 as sipl ) with V. But his of tions of with in of of in of the the wave-velocity of dis1908 .
] Groups of in Dispersire , etc. turbance if it were unlimited .
the of the roup we have also a series of roups , following each other much more quickly and with their and velocities less separated out than in the front of the roup .
Hence the disturbance in the rear , especially at tances from the origin not reat , may be expected to consist of small , more FIG. 1 .
ular , motion from the superposition of this latter system of roups , thus there will be a more distinctive rear of disturbance with velocity .
These inferences may be compared with some results iven i Lord Kclvin 's later ) from a solution of the equations for an elevation in the form of a single crest , the results were phically so as to show in a series of ures the ation of Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Propagation of [ Aug. 26 , an disturbance five Cl.ests and four hollows of approximately sinusoidal shape ; the ] remarks are made :Immediately aftel the water is left free , the disturbance itself into two groups of waves , seen in directions from the middle line of the d. The pelceptible fronts of two groups extend rightwards and vards from the end of the initial group far beyond the hypothetical onls , ) to tl.avel at ] the wave-velocity , which to the dynamics of ) , in their important and interesting consideration of the work required to feed a uniform procession of waves)vould the actual frollts if the free roups remained uniform .
How is from ealised is illustrated by the diagrams of which show a reat extension in each tlirection far beyond distances travelled at the ' ' there is this reat extension of the fi om the middle , we the two groups , after from tence in middle , their ears 1 ( space ) thel1t of water not ) disturbed , but very minute wavelets in ll1lll)cr following slower and in the of 'roup .
The ) rear avels at a speed closely to the ( half -velocity .
' . . . .
Thus ) perfi ont travels at actually than the -velocity , and this ) ) ) GCOlles 1 inlportant relatively to the whole with th advance uf tinle extract will selve to sis the of definition and ns of wold ( orroup .
A sinlple gloup , of ucture , -ith it a definite elocity d ) only on the wave-length , but not so ttll limited displacement .
In various cases we foumd it convenient to analyse such into roups , each definite velocity ; ill special cas may be equivalent practically to one S8 .
the is , but that } ) lied 1 it .
iven b ical distribution of , suitable ysis , initial elevation , the cl ation at Stlb t is by Lold , ' Phil. , vol. 13 , p. .
1908 .
] Groups of in , etc. If we assume equal to 1 , so that it is confined to an indefinitely narro strip of i1npulse ( cf. S5 ) , we obtain the result corresponding to ( 29 ) for nitial displacement by that expression the value of ; thus we find .
( 41 ) For comparison with the previous results , suppose that Then we find the surface form as of roups , each of them umulative and so prominent only in a ) ited region , iven by ( 42 ) For a given place the maxima are given by , that is , by .
Thus the maximuun moves with velocity , and consists of neal .
lie imple waves of wave-length with the result in S for an initial displacement of the same character , see that the is pro- pagated outwards with slower elocity , the wave-length at maximum being one-half the value in the former case .
S9 .
npnlso on De Suppose that the line impulse of the previous section is over the surface of deep water at angles to its length with unifornl velocity ; started at some infinitely renlote .
Then we may regard the effect at as the summation of the effects due to all the consecutive elements of impulse , and we can obtain an expression by modifying ( 40 ) and integrating with respect to the time .
We measure from a fixed origin which the line i1npulse at zero time ; then we substitute for and for in ( 40 ) , and integrate with respect to for all the time the impulse has ) .
Thus we obtain - Dr. T. H. Havelock .
The of [ Aug. 26 where , and anCe in advance of the present positio : of the nlse .
We proceed to 110W the portant regular features the distllbance ) resented b these lViCh the notation of ( 19 ) thd ) ve the first integral .
, .
Hence ] value of , which corresponds to a stationar is ivcn by Thus the first in ( 43 ) gives ?
We choose the of oscillations by the condition , Now must be positive to conle within of the integral ( 45 ) hence if is positive we no ibution towards a ] disturbance .
If is ative obtain a series of ways which we can from ( 45 ) .
have , when Hence , expression ( 18 ) , we ) the value of the chief roup from ( 45 ) namely , ' hich holds when is the second in ( 43 ) , easily see by the principal ( roup hat must ) ative : must be ative and between ero and ) llumelically .
Thell the group in , we have to lltmerictlly .
Hence is no resulting roup of vaves in th and second integral contributes to the disturbance .
then the result in front of the travellinoopulse is disturbance , whilc in rear there is of ortional to ( 4C ) , with ) to the 1908 .
] Groups of in Disf'ersiue Media , etc. The same method can be used for waves on water of depth , due to a travelling impulse system .
For in the integrals we should have .
( 47 ) The group with respect to would give a term proportional to , ( 48 ) where has the value given by .
( 49 ) We then select the , roup with pect to by .
( 50 ) we find this leads , or .
( 51 ) Since ninishes continually from 1 to as increases from to , there is only a real solution of when is less .
In this case we have regular waves of length suitable to velocity ] in the rear of the impulse ; when is reater than the llaximtll1l wave-velocity there is no wave form .
S10 .
In order to illustrate the of element of the expression as a limited travelling group of undulations , consider another fornl of velocity function .
If waves are ated over the surface of a liquid of density under the action of the surface tension , it can shown that the velocity of simple waves of is .
Hence in this case the group-velocity is ; thus the -velocity is greater than the wave-velocity , and shall see this affects some of the results .
( a ) Initial ) / /tvccn considel the same problem as in S7 we have Phil. .
) .
VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. ) I Dr. T. H. Havelock .
The Propagation of [ Aug. 26 , The predominant value of , for criven place , is given by The roups , with approximately constant amplitude , are iven by .
At a iven place the maxima of ftlnplitude are those of Fig. 2 represents the curve ( 57 ' where is proportional to the time and equal to 1 corresponds to equal to Comparing this with S 7 we draw the inference that in this case the perceptible front of the is ltore clearly lnarked than the rear and advances with the half-wave-velocity onding to , in agreement with simple observation .
lime line i1npulse at rest leads to .
Consequently a moving line impulse will 908 .
] Groups of in Dispersive Media , etc. Then we choose so that , or value ivin a ular wave pattern is the poSitiye root , for positive .
Hence in this case have a ular train of waves of suitable to he velocity in of the .
pressure system , with no regular attern in the rear .
S11 .
Waicr Waves to Gravity and If we take account of ravity and the surface tension , we have the elocity function Hence .
( 60 ) We have not here a simple ratio , independent of .
The velocity a minimum for a certain value , equal to , and for this value I is equal to \mdash ; as in fact follows from the definition of U. For less than ultimately to ; while for is reater than and approaches as a limit If we consider a travelling line impulse , whole problem of the roups is contained in the equations .
( 61 ) Hence ' where the positive sign is taken for positive ( in advance of the impulse ) , the negative sign for ative ( in the rear ) .
Thus there is no wave attern unless is greater than the minimum wave-velocity ; and if so here are regular trains both in advance and in the rear , the smaller engths in advance .
With the ratio large , the results approximate very small waves in front and waves in the rear with equal to S 12 .
Surface Waves in Dimensions .
Suppose that the initial data instead of being symmetrical about a bransverse line are symmetrical around the Cyin .
Let the axes of Dr. T. H. Havelock .
of [ Aug. 26 , \ldquo ; be in the undisturbed surface and axis of vertically upwards ; we write for .
Then , esponding to , the surface elevation !
due to an in itial displacement , set free without initial velocity , giyen by where For an initial point-elevation we may take for simplicity equal ; then we have .
( 64 For deep water separate a real group from the first with respect to , around the valne of by This is replaced by the Considering now the raltge f , we can ( select the ) oscillations from ; it occurs at to zero , so we one-half result iven by the ession ( obtain the known result ( 66 ) , for an initial ) oillt impnlsc have , instead of ( 04 ) , the { si in to the .
( 6S ) 1908 .
] Gronps of , etc. S 13 .
Point Impulse over Let the impulse be .
along Ox with constant velocity ; let P ) be position at time , A at any ) revious time , and suppose the system to lave beeu for an indefinitely time .
We have OA ; OB ; Then in ( 67 ) we have to for for , and raCe with respect to from to ; we obtain .
( 69 ) With , we select the group around the value of by .
( 70 ) By the formula ( 17 ) we find .
( 71 ) from this the chief ronp which occurs near equal to zero , } find Finally we choose the chief groups of terms in from the condition ; ( 73 ) Dr. T. H. Havelock .
The Propc(gation of [ Aug. that is , from or We have then different cases to consider according to the llatule of ives a ition of the moving impulse , tinc eviously , for which the Hent out reinforce each other th at time ( i ) In the where 9 , both roots are thus position is non-existent , and there is no principal in th .
Hence all wave pattern is contained within tw straight lines from the point pulse , each with the line otion an , or approximately ( ii ) When 9 are two different real roots for .
Thus have two chief groups in , corresponding to two regula wave systems super on each other .
At any point within the two bounding radii the disturbance consists two parts : one part sent out from A at time previously , where OA and ; ( 76 and another part sent out from at time before , where OB and .
( 77 We he1l two vave systelIls , which llay be called the nsverse waves and { shall them separately .
( a ) sc er ( ?
the larger value of in ) we find ( 78 ) 1908 .
] Groups of es Dispersive , etc. Further , when is zero , we have .
( 79 ) the formula ( 17 ) we obtain the particular group of erms from the integral ( 72 ) as , ( 80 ) in which the special value of nrust be substituted .
this expression we ) tain .
( 81 ) This represents a systenl of transverse waves ] with the impulse ; the amplitude for a given azimuth diminishes as On the central line , where is zero , this reduces to , ( 82 ) to simple line waves of length suitable to velocity on deep water , but with the amplitude factor Following the crest of a nsverse wave we have ( 83 ) where is a positive .
The crests cut the axis in points given by , ( 84 ) and cut the radial given by ) , in the points .
( 85 ) Considel the variation of anlplitude a crest ; substitute for from ( S3 ) in ( 82 ) and obtain .
( 86 ) This becomes infinite at the outer boundary , when is ) nately ; this is due to failure of the nethod of approximation snd we shall consider it later .
For the present the following table of values and curve show that the proxinlation holds np to angles very near the limit .
Dr. T. H. Havelock .
The Propagation of Table I. relative amplitude , ( the at different azimuths .
1 ( b ) root iven ( 77 ) , we obtaill the systcn of need ] the of ladiclc in order to rite d the corresponding results in this case .
ests of the waves are given by Wllen zcro ; the clcsts the oint of ; .
( 8S ) 1908 .
] Groups of Waves in , etc. The law of amplitude the same crest is given by ( 89 ) In this case , for the same reason as for the transverse , the ression f ' the ) littlde tends to infinite .
at the onter of each crest ; we shall find an in the next ) .
But ( 89 ) becomes infinitely large for small values of .
From ( 88 ) we see that also becolnes snlall , so that the approximation furthcr , we should expect the cxpression to become infinite ' the impulse account of its special character .
sho how the infinity disappeal if we remove this cause .
Consider , as an ) , a finite impulse , of constant intensity over a circular area of radius lotlnd the , and of value outside circle .
Then , as see from ( 63 ) , we shall have the paule expressions as before , a factor iven by ) .
in the final onp for the ( system we Hence the additional factor due to is proportional to ( 90 ) When approaches zero , ) argument of the Bessel 's fullction increases inde fitely and } may use the asymptotic expausion : then is to .
( 91 ) If now we uJultiply ( 89 ) by ) ) we obtain a limiting vaiue of the amplitude of the ( system neftr the axis ; it ) ) to and the infinity neal ' the axis httS disappeared .
( c ) Tha of \mdash ; We shall consider the infinity hich occurs at the outer of the two wave systems , is ) .
At Dr. T. H. Havelock .
The of [ Aug. 26 , the lines of constant ) in the two wave ) atterns cross at an seen to ) ivcn by .
( 92 ) As either ] ) the two waves ultimately have the same direction , they will have the } when they meet ; ( ' norn ) elevation is the outer ries , two systcnls tIlitc in lines of cusps .
As see from , the two points coincide f'or on line of cusl ) ; and it is on ccount this fact ) vious aoxin ations fail for both systems .
in fact a root of the ttion for findiIlg the chief of integral .
Consider the { .
, ( 93 ) is such Following the previous method , we have and rovided f is not small , we rite the value of the ooroup for the ( louble root ils si ( 94 ) Now ot the line of cusps the ecolnes find that : ; / .
we FIcltcc , .
these values , .
( 96 ) 1908 .
] of in We notice first the difference of phase of between this and the expressions for the parate systems where they cut the outer boundaries , this is to the of phase an optical ray in passing a focus .
We saw that the separate transverse and ying crests towards points of equal on the outer boundaries given by but with the result iven in ( 96 ) we see the actual crests on the line of cusps are given by The amplitude of the cusped waves diminishes at a slower rate than the transverse waves , so that their size becomes nor marked the lear of the disturbance .
amplitude of successive crests is iven by ( 96 ) and ( 97 ) as The amplitude of successive crests of the transverse waves where they cut the axi are iven by ( 82 ) and ( 84 ) , and we find Taking the ratio of these two quantities we have an expression for the magnitude of the crests at the cusps compared with the transverse crests on the axis ; approximately ( 100 ) The following table and curve show how the successive crests at the axis and outer line diminish , and exhibit their relative for erent values of On August 3 , 188 Lord Kelviu delivered it " " On Ship Waves \ldquo ; before the Institution of Mechanical Engineels at Edinburgh , in which he to have shown a model to scale of the theoretical wave pattern produced by ship .
Only a diagram of the crest curves has been published ( ' Popular Lectures , ' vol. .3 , p. 482 ) ; form of the crests agrees with that deduced above , except of course near the disturbance or the radial boundaries .
It has , in fact , been verified that on substituting his expreqsions for / ?
in ternls of a parameter in the present equations , the latter are satisfied identically .
The law of amplitude along the waves is not stated by Lord Kelvin Prof. ) conjectures , his result seems to have been obtained by ] ) lication of the idea of gloupvelocity Lamb , mics , .
Dr. T. H. Havelock .
The Propagation of Table II .
85 65 / / Consider a point innpulse with clocity c over the surface of lnediunl for hich respectively the and wave-velocity for a value of Let disturbance fi om ) ) } the 1bourhood of a ( A contbine so as to ) rodtlce at I ' at lnent the inlpulse is at .
Theu of the ) ossible persistent wave1 systelns is contained in the equations ; ( 101 ) is , in wave ) nltent dends npotl the ctcr of the positive roots of these and such valne of defines wave system 1908 .
] Groups of Waves in Dispersive Media , etc. with wave front through at right , to , and each system can be expressed in the with and as functions of and Suppose the lnedium is such that the group-velocity bears a constant ratio to the wave-velocity , that is , suppose where / is independent of Then the equations ( 102 ) and(103 ) Iead to a quadratic for Hence we have the roots We shall examine some special cases .
\mdash ; There are two positive values of , which are real , ed Thus there are two wave systems , transverse and divero i , with a line of cusps corresponding to the double roots , and the whole wave pattern is included within an which increases with The previous section on deep-water waves is the case zero .
( b ) .
This is a critical case , coincidence of wave-velocity with group-velocity , and consequently no dispersion .
( c ) .
This is the case of capillary surface waves .
We see that there is only one positive root of the quadratic , and it is real for all values of the root is .
( 108 ) There is only one vave system , but it extetlds ovel the whole surface ; along the line of motion is zero in the rear , while in advance of the impulse it is of value suitable to simple waves moving with velocity ( d ) .
This holds for flexural waves on a plate ; tlrere is one sysCcnl of waves extending over the surface , to the root The crests , and other lines of equal phase , are iven by the CUl.ves constant .
( e ) relation between and is .
T. H. Havelock .
Propagation of [ Aug. 26 , not constant ratio in this case ; we had in S11 the expressions for the two yelocities as functions of .
It can be shown that in certain cases the equations for cu to four possible roots , yivino .
four wave-branches the point .
S15 .
Point ) moving on Water of Finit With the same problem we now , if the water is of depth .
( 109 ) If we varies between and 1 , being dependent upon the value of .
We use the notation ( 110 ) Then and are monotonic functions of with the following limiting values : ; ?
; ?
; ; The two equations for , and become , ( 111 ) .
( 112 ) these we obtain ; .
( 114 ) the last two we have the values of as , ( 115 ) 01 .
( 116 ) We have cases to consider as or \mdash ; Front ( 114 ) sce the equal values of cn , 1908 .
] Groups of Waves in Dispersire , etc. defining the lines of cusps within which the vave pattern lies , are iven by such values of that .
( 117 ) the value of can only lie between 1 and ; hence can only lie between and or between and .
The smaller value is the for deep water , when is considered zero for all values of We see from and ( 116 ) that the equal values of occur when , or when greatest possible yalue of is 2 ; hence we have the limitation .
Only in this case is there a double vave system a line of cusps .
As decreases to 1 , that is as the velocity approaches the critical value , and at line of cusps both approach their value 1 ; and at the same time the cusp widens out , a angle .
Further , along the axis we have Hence on the axis the transyerse waves are the simple waves travelling with velocity on water of depth .
As decreases to 1 , the wave-length increases indefinitely ; , and consequently , approach unity on the axis .
Now if is 1 , the group-velocity equals the wave-velocity and the medium is non-dispersive .
Thus at the critical velocity , equal to we have a source emitting disturbances and travelling at the rate of propagation of the disturbances ; we see that the whole effect is practicaIly concentrated into a line through the source at right angles to the direction of motion .
This agrees with observations of ship waves when approaching shallow water at the critical velocity .
* ( b ) \mdash ; We may now have the greatest value , unity , of ; it is easily seen that for less values of and the values of given by ( 113 ) become smaller .
At the outer limit we have .
( 118 ) Consequently the wave pattern is contained within two lines making with the axis an which as increases .
* Trans. Inst. Nav .
Arch vol. 47 , p. 353 ( 1905 ) .
also the motion of an electron with the velocity of radiation .
Dr. T. H. Havelock .
The Propagation of [ Aug. 26 , ther , sincu values iven 1 ) we sc hele arc no cusps , for the left-band side cannot be greater than 2 .
values of in ( 115 ) and ( 1 ] b ) correspond to the transverse and ( ( waves respectively .
If we ) ) titnte ( in equations ( 111 ) and ( 112 ) we find ] are satisfied idelltically ; hence there is always a system . .
hand , if we substitute ( 115 ) we find we llllst lave , the ible value of the side unity .
Hence there can be a tranhversc wave } ' steIl only so long as is greater ; when exceeds ransycrsc1 isapl ) At otltel line ivcn by the ) nter ] front of the wave stem .
1Ve that the there }ronts ( lines of equal phase ) are now concave to , instead } ) convcx } tvhcn .
There is no definite iIlllel limit to system ; as is , the tvave fronts become more the , and the , as the is increased , the ninishes , and the tlar are a from the centre of ance .
( Ill ) the culve in fig. 8 show how the the velocity is abed n to and beyond the critical Table III .
, :al .
: ; : ; 0.55 0.7 $0 1$ D8 .
] Groups of in , etc. VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. able I FIG. 9 .
Rev. F. J. Jervis-Smith .
-eneration of [ Sept. 9 With the help of these results , sketches are given in fig. 9 to represen the in the wave pattern , as the critical velocity is approached an passed .
the Generation of a Glow in moving Field , and the Action of agnetic Field on the Glow so ; the Residual being Oxygen , Hydrogen , Air.\mdash ; Part 3 .
By JOHN .
( Oxon ) , Eeceived September 9 , \mdash ; Read November 5 , 1908 .
) ( 1 ) A silica bulb , similar to those employed in the experiments describe at p. 214 , ' .
Soc. Proc , vol. 81 , was rotated four to five revolution second ; degree of exhaustion was similar to that reached in th former experiments , the residual gas being oxygen .
The inductor wa valley , until the bulb bolowed ; then slowly through piece of damped thread , until the entirely died out ; the graduate electroscope the slow establishing th field , the brilliant glow was at once restored .
This phenomeno : could be repeated at any time with celtainty .
In some experiments th south pole was effective , the north pole not so .
This was probably connecte with the that the north pole defiected the glow away from the stem the bulb , which was the axis oi rotation , and thus in contact with outsld ( 2 ) A silica bulb , the residual gas .
air , when reate glowed ; but the netic effect as less mnrked than when was residual ( 3 ) A bulb of glass was next rotated ; the inductor being char as il the former experiment ; the wos much less than when a silica bull was used .
The glow as deflected ) the field , not increased .
Even the inductol ' } charged to 3000 volts the glow feeble .
( 4 ) In order to discover how the residual gas in the exhausted bull alfccted phenomena , I detern ined to contrast the effects il bilica ) ) wheu neon or wcle residual ooases in the ) ) bir Willianl amsay very kindly offered to repare me a bulb , in the residual neon .

