A paper was read , entitled , " An Account of an extraordinary lu ?
minous appearance in the Heavens , seen at Athboy in Ireland , on the 21st of March , 1833 .
" By the Right Honourable the Earl of Darnley .
Communicated by John George Children , Esq. Sec. R.S. The noble author 's house is situated in lat. 53ยง 37 ' N. , long .
6ยง 54f W. On the evening of the 21st of March last , at 9 p.m. , a stream of luminous matter , reaching from the eastern to the western horizon , which it entered to the north of the constellation of Orion , was observed passing about midway between the Great Bear and Arcturus , and directly over the two principal stars of Gemini .
The phenomenon was not accompanied by the usual flashings of an Aurora , but appeared to flow , when attentively observed , in a rapid stream from east to west , and varying in intensity in its course .
His Lordship compares it to the stream from the pipe of an engine played over the head of a person standing under it , about the middle of its course .
The light was most brilliant at the eastern extremity of the arch , where it was about 1 ?
wide , gradually increasing in width and diminishing in intensity as it approached the western extremity , where it may have occupied about 5 ?
or 6 ? .
Stars of the second and third magnitudes were distinctly visible through the arch , at least from the meridian to the western horizon ; and though not apparently at a great elevation , light clouds occasionally seemed to pass between it and the observer , obscuring its light .
During twenty minutes that Lord Darnley observed the phenomenon , it seemed to proceed through its whole extent from north to south , its edges , which , when first observed , extended equally on either side of Castor and Pollux , having in that time entirely left the most northern of those stars .
It had wholly disappeared before ten o'clock .
Lord Darnley did not see the beginning of the phenomenon ; but was informed that it appeared at first like the moon rising , and gra ?
dually extended from the eastern to the opposite horizon .
The re ?
flection thrown on the earth was faint : the degree and colour of the light may be compared to that of a comet 5 of greater brilliancy , however , than any that has appeared in this century .
In a postscript , His Lordship states , that precisely the same appearance was observed at Castlereah , distant sixty miles ; and , according to a Carlisle paper , somewhere in the North of England ; the time of appearance in both cases corresponding very nearly with that of his own observation .

