216 A Preliminary Account of the Meiotic Phenomena in the Pollen Mother-Cells and Tajpetum of Lettuce ( Lactuca sativa ) .
By R. Ruggles Gates , Ph. D. , F.L.S. , Reader in Botany , University of London ( King 's College ) .
( Communicated by Prof. J. B. Farmer , F.R.S. Received March 1 , 1920 .
) On examining some lettuces which Prof. William Bateson , F.R.S. , was growing in his experimental grounds at Merton , I was struck by the differences between a certain Cos lettuce ( Sutton 's " Dwarf Perfection " ) and a rogue from it which showed some resemblances in leaf characters to a cabbage lettuce .
Prof. Bateson kindly permitted me to collect some cytological material of the variety and its rogue , and a subsequent study of the pollen development , particularly in the variety , has developed several points of so much general interest that a preliminary account of certain features was deemed desirable .
So far as the work has progressed no constant difference between the variety and its rogue has yet appeared , the chromosome number being the same in both .
The present account , so far as known , applies equally to the variety and the rogue .
Only the main points of special interest in the meiotic history will be touched upon in this communication .
The material was fixed in various chrom-acetic acid solutions , some of which gave very good fixation , and the sections were chiefly stained with Heidenhain 's iron-alum hsematoxylin .
In the resulting preparations the structural features both of the chromatin and the cytoplasm were beautifully clear , the presence of latex tubes causing no difficulties and requiring no special treatment .
One of the striking features first observed was the variety of conditions in the tapetum , all transitions between pollen mother-cells and tapetal cells being found .
This was all the more unexpected as occurring in a composite , and since the Compositse stand high among flowering plants the condition can scarcely be regarded as a primitive one .
The tapetal cells frequently become greatly elongated and are in some cases very narrow , but they lie almost invariably with their long axes lengthwise of the loculus .
They become binucleate by a mitotic division of the nucleus about the time of synapsis in the pollen mother-cells , and many of them later become tetranucleate by another mitosis .
These tapetal cells vary enormously in size , both in the binucleate and the tetranucleate conditions .
The chromatin of the nuclei , particularly in the binucleate cells , in certain cases shows appearances which are indistinPollen Mother-Cells and Tapetum of Lettuce ( Lactuca sativa ) .
217 guishable from certain synaptic stages of the nucleus .
In all such cases the two nuclei of the cell are in exactly the same condition .
The typical synaptic knot or synizesis has been observed very few times in tapetal nuclei , but in many other binucleate cells the condition of the nuclei very closely resembles the post-synaptic stages in the pollen mother-cells .
It is , therefore , very difficult to say whether certain binucleate cells should be regarded as pollen mother-cells which have become binucleate and yet are continuing the post-synaptic nuclear phenomena of meiosis , or whether they should be regarded as tapetal cells which are peculiar in showing these nuclear conditions .
In any case it is clear that all transitions between pollen mother-cells and tapetal cells occur , and that such intermediate cells will ultimately break down and contribute to the tapetal plasmodium which is formed at a late stage of pollen development .
It should be stated that in binucleate cells whose nuclei are in synizesis , the cytoplasm is well fixed and shows little or no contraction .
The phenomenon of synapsis was first recognised by Moore ( 1895 ) in Elasmobranch spermatogenesis , and its significance was further elaborated in the classical paper of Farmer and Moore ( 1905 ) on Meiosis .
It has since been found as a practically universal preparation stage for the meiotic divisions in plants and animals , and is therefore coextensive with sexuality itself .
This contracted condition of the nucleus was formerly believed to bring about the pairing of maternal and paternal chromosomes or elements .
But since it has been shown that the paired arrangement of the chromosomes frequently occurs already in somatic divisions and probably in many cases comes about at the time of fertilisation , some deeper physiological significance of the contracted phase of the chromatin must be sought .
An indiscriminate interchange of corresponding chromatin elements ( chromomeres ) was also formerly supposed to take place at this time between the delicate parallel threads .
But all direct evidence of such a process has broken down , and the indirect evidence is strongly against its occurrence .
Since the evidence for an interchange of particles has disappeared , writers have frequently spoken of an " influence " exerted upon each other by homologous chromomeres while they are in close approximation .
It is difficult to see in what such an influence can consist .
The more recent studies of synapsis by Wilson ( 1912 ) and others have failed to penetrate more deeply into the meaning of this contracted phase .
Its occurrence in living cells shows that it is in no sense an artefact , but it must be admitted that no adequate explanation of its significance is yet forthcoming .
Its unique occurrence at but one point in the life cycle however , emphasises its importance as a preliminary to meiosis , although a second contraction , after the spireme thread has attained the thickness of the VOL. xoi.\#151 ; B. s 218 Dr. R. R. Gates .
Meiotic Phenomena the Pollen definitive chromosomes , has now been described in many plants and in certain animal forms .
So far as I am aware , the synaptic contraction has never before been observed , except in the spore mother-cells or corresponding structures of plants , and in the , primary spermatocytes and oocytes of animals .
Its occurrence as a rarity in the binucleate tapetal cells of lettuce is probably to be attributed to the fact that this plant shows the unusual condition in which all transitions between tapetal and germinal cells occur .
Its presence here under these circumstances is not surprising , and may perhaps lead to a physiological interpretation of the phenomena of synapsis .
One is tempted to think of it as a plasmolysis of the nucleus , or rather of its contents .
But it is evident that such a simple explanation will not suffice .
In a detailed study of the history of the tapetal nuclei in certain Angio-sperms , Bonnet ( 1912 ) suggested that the two meiotic divisions leading to the tetranucleate condition corresponded to the two meiotic divisions in the pollen mother-cells .
But neither of these divisions in the tapetal cells is ever a reduction division so far as known , nor are they preceded by synapsis of the nucleus .
Moreover , the synapsis which has been observed as an exceptional occurrence in lettuce comes in the binucleate condition of the tapetal cells , after the first mitosis has taken place .
This appears to emphasise its physiological aspects as a reproductive process , and leads one to look upon synapsis ( or more specifically synizesis ) , as a phenomenon of the nucleus which might be directly induced in any diploid cell if it could be placed under the proper conditions .
Another phenomenon which may occur in sativa when the nuclei are in synapsis , is the process of chromatin extrusion which I have elsewhere ( G-ates , 1911 ) called cytomyxis .
It has been found only rarely in lettuce , but when it occurs it has the same characteristic features observed in other plants .
So far as known , it has not been observed in animal spermatocytes , and the structural conditions of the primary spermatocytes are such that it would not be expected to take place .
This extrusion from the pollen mother-cells only takes place when the nucleus of a pollen mother-cell in synizesis becomes so eccentric in position that its membrane comes into contact with the cell wall separating it from the next pollen mother-cell .
If , under these circumstances , the nuclear membrane happens to touch the cell wall at a point where an opening or cytoplasmic connection with the next cell exists , then a portion of the viscous chromatin will flow through into the cytoplasm of the adjacent cell .
Presumably a nucleus which has thus lost a portion of its chromatin will not be able later to complete its normal development .
There is , however , Mother-Cells and Tapetum of Lettuce ( Lactuca sativa ) .
219 no clear evidence that the process is an artefact , though it has often been considered such .
Cytomyxis has now been described in a number of forms , always occurring in the pollen mother-cells during synapsis .
The literature of the subject will be considered when the complete account is published .
Synapsis in the pollen mother-cells in lettuce is followed by the usual spireme stages ending in diakinesis , which will be fully described , with their variations , in the final paper .
There are nine pairs of chromosomes in diakinesis , and in size the definitive chromosomes form a graded series , two or three being of maximum length ( several times their diameter ) , three or four of intermediate length ( about twice their diameter ) , and the remaining three or four nearly isodiametric .
In width there appears to be no constant difference , although there is considerable variation .
The pairing of the chromosomes in diakinesis is exceptionally close for plant material , the members of a pair almost invariably lying parallel , and the pairs giving no evidence of their bivalent nature , except occasionally by a split at one end or a light line down the centre .
There is great variation in the bulk of the chromosomes in different mother-cells , but the size relationships of the chromosomes within a nucleus appear always to be maintained .
In the earlier stages of formation of the diakinetic chromosomes , before they have begun shortening and thickening , their bivalent nature is very clearly apparent .
The two members of a pair lie as long threads of chromatin side by side , or in many cases wrapped round each other in various ways .
They may be looped in the middle to form a figure 8 , or there may be two or even more loops in the length of a pair of chromosomes .
In other cases one chromosome is more nearly straight , while the other is wrapped round it .
In some cases the fusion of the loops at the points where they cross each other , appears so intimate that they are likely to break apart with an interchange of segments .
This course of events , known as chiasmatypy , was described by Janssens ( 1909 ) in Batrachoseps , and has been used by Morgan ( 1915 ) as the probable physical basis of the crossing-over phenomena of heredity which he and his pupils have described with a great wealth of detail in the fruit fly , Drosophila .
So far as I am aware , the phenomenon of chiasmatypy is here described for the first time in plants , although twisted chromosome pairs have been figured in various forms .
Its full description , with figures , is reserved for the final paper .
It is an interesting fact that in these stages , during which the* diakinetic chromosomes are being formed , some pairs may shorten and thicken much more quickly than others , assuming their definitive shape while the others still remain as long and narrow threads .
The same phenomena has been described in Oenothera ( Gates , 1908 ) .
220 Dr. R. R. Gates .
Meiotic Phenomena the Pollen In the study of large numbers of pollen mother-cells in diakinesis , occasional departures from the normal nine pairs are found .
In one such case two of the longest chromosomes had obviously fused together end to end , forming one enormously long chromosome .
The fusion was complete , and there was not the slightest indication of a line of separation between them .
This nucleus , therefore , contained eight separate chromosome bodies , the other seven pairs being unaltered .
In certain other nuclei where only eight bivalent chromosomes were present , there had probably been a fusion of two pairs , but it was not possible to identify with certainty which pairs had amalgamated .
In at least one case it would appear that some other process than fusion may have brought about the diminution in number .
Ten chromosome bodies were found in diakinesis in a limited number of cases .
Whether they have arisen through a transverse segmentation of one of the bivalent chromosomes or by the separation of the members of a pair can perhaps not be determined with certainty , owing to variations in chromosome width .
In any case , however these alterations come about they can be looked upon as temporary or permanent germinal changes according to their later behaviour .
They serve merely to emphasise the remarkable constancy in the history of the chromosomes in the germ-cell cycle .
Probably all organisms will show such occasional alterations when large numbers of their germ cells in the same stage of their development are critically studied and compared .
Another phenomenon of much interest in the meiotic chromosomes of lettuce is the tendency which appears for certain of the bivalent chromosomes to coalesce more or less completely on the equatorial plate of the heterotypic spindle .
At this stage the chromosome pairs become even more condensed than in the late diakinesis , assuming finally an almost globular shape .
They frequently show at this time their point of attachment to the spindle , as a thread-like prolongation from one end of the chromosome .
All indications of their bivalent nature have now completely disappeared .
In counting the chromosomes at this stage , either in polar view or in side view , I was at first able to find only seven bodies .
It was necessary , of course , to assure oneself that such chromosome groups were uncut in sectioning .
Then cases were found where two of the bivalent chromosomes were more or less completely coalesced , and , finally , cases in which all nine could clearly be counted .
The diminution in number at this time is thus found to be due to the temporary coalescence of two bivalent chromosomes , probably end to end , giving eight bodies , or of two more , diminishing the number to seven bodies .
So far as I know , the literature of cytology contains no similar instance of chromosome behaviour , either in plants or animals .
It can hardly , I think , Mother-Cells and Tajpetum of Lettuce ( Lactuca sativa ) .
221 be ascribed to the fixation , for it occurs in varying degrees in cells closely grouped on the same slide , and where there is every indication that the fixation is good .
There are indications that , in some cases at least , the shorter chromosome bivalents are the ones which coalesce on the equatorial plate of the heterotypic spindle , though it is difficult to identify them with certainty at this time owing to their extreme condensation .
Nor is the process by any means a uniform or invariable one .
There is rather a tendency towards the coalescence of one or two pairs .
In many cases the full number nine can be clearly counted in this metaphase stage .
In other cells , particularly when the differentiation of the chromosome stain has gone rather far , the partial coalescence of particular pairs can be clearly determined .
In still others , the coalescence is so complete and intimate that only seven bodies can be counted in the heterotypic metaphase , either in polar view or side view .
There is clear evidence that , in some cases at least , and presumably in all , the coalescence of the bivalent chromosome has been end to end .
Since the maternal and paternal members of each chromosome pair are indistinguishable from each other , it is impossible to know precisely how this longitudinal coalescence takes place .
Whether , for example , the two paternal chromosomes always undergo an end to end fusion with each other ( fig. 1 ) , or whether there is an equal or greater chance of each paternal chromosome lying end to end with a maternal chromosome ( fig. 2 ) .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Assuming , as many lines of evidence go to show , that differences , which are inherited in Mendelian fashion , are determined by the presence of different chromosomes , we evidently have , in this temporary coalescence , the basis for disturbances in the chromosome distribution , and hence in the Mendelian ratios , with the appearance of what is called partial coupling or repulsion between factors .
Such a result would only be absent in case the chances were equal that the end to end coalescence of the pairs would be between a paternal and a maternal chromosome , or between the two paternal and the two maternal chromosomes .
There is no evidence that such coalesced chromosome pairs will pass over bodily to one pole of the spindle .
Eather , they will both split in the usual way , but the manner of their coalescence will determine the nature of their distribution , whether , the paternal halves of each chromosome will go to the same pole or opposite poles of the spindle .
222 Dr. R. R. Gates .
Meiotic Phenomena the Pollen This subject need not be discussed further here , but it evidently furnishes a possible basis for the phenomena of partial coupling or repulsion , apart altogether from the " crossing over " phenomena , which are based on relations between the two members of a pair of chromosomes in their earlier post-synaptic stages .
In any case , the frequency , one might almost say regularity , with which this phenomenon of temporary coalescence of certain pairs of chromosomes takes place , indicates that it must have some special significance .
While the coalescence usually occurs on the heterotypic spindle , it may in rare cases take place earlier , in diakinesis .
But the earlier fusion , when it occurs , presents certain differences , and may represent a separate phenomenon .
Among other phenomena of interest in this study is the method of division of the pollen mother-cells into a tetrad after the meiotic divisions are completed .
So far as observed , this process takes place , at least in the great majority of mother-cells , by invaginations of the cytoplasm developing between the nuclei at four equidistant points on the periphery , and gradually cleaving the cytoplasm into four cells .
In many cases this process begins while the spindle fibres are still present connecting all the nuclei .
But it occurs in spite of the spindles , not with their aid , and it can take place equally well in their absence .
No case has yet been found in which cell walls are laid down on a spindle plate after the usual fashion .
Although such a nuclear plate ( non-functional ) is occasionally seen as a temporary structure on the spindle in the heterotypic telophase , it has never been observed in the homotypic telophase , the cell division taking place only , so far as observed , by a constriction of the cytoplasm , either in the presence of the spindles or after they have disappeared .
As mentioned earlier , a tapetal plasmodium is ultimately formed , a very limited number of pollen grains maturing in the loculus and becoming surrounded by a mass of cytoplasmic detritus from the tapetum , in which cell walls have completely broken down , and the nuclei have almost or quite disappeared .
This , again , is considered an uncommon condition in Angiosperms , although a plasmodial tapetum as a normal occurrence has been described in a number of forms ( Juel , 1915 ) .
In this brief preliminary account of the meiotic phenomena in lettuce , I have only touched upon some of the points which have appeared of more general scientific interest .
A very detailed study , particularly of the history and variations of the chromosomes , lias been made .
It is considered that the study of variations in the behaviour of the chromosomes has been too much neglected , and that any account is incomplete which does not include a record of the conditions rarely or infrequently observed , as Mother-Cells and Tctpetum of Lettuce ( Lactuca sativa ) .
223 well as of those which seem to fall into the usual order of events .
Doubtless , some organisms show much greater variation in these respects than others , and this also is not without its significance for genetics .
In connection with this work , I am greatly indebted to my research assistant , Miss E. M. Rees , B.Sc. , the accuracy of whose drawings has added a great deal to the value of the results .
BIBLIOGRAPHY .
1 .
Bonnet , Jean ( 1912 ) , " Recherches sir Involution des cellules-nourrici\amp ; res du pollen chez les Angiospermes , " ' Arch. f. Zellforsch.,5 vol. 7 , pp. 604-702 , Plates 39-45 , fig. 17 .
2 .
Farmer , J. B. , and Moore , J. E. S. ( 1905 ) , " On the meiotic phase ( reduction divisions ) in animals and plants , " 'Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci. , ' vol. 48 , pp. 489-557 , Plates 34-41 .
3 .
Gates , R. R. ( 1908 ) , " A study of reduction in Oenothera , " ' Bot. Gaz .
, vol. 46 , pp. 1-34 , Plates 1-3 .
4 .
Gates , R. R. ( 1911 ) , " Pollen formation in O ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 25 , pp. 909-940 , Plates 67-70 .
5 .
Janssens , F. A. ( 1909 ) , " La th6orie de la Chiasmatypie , " 'La Cellule , ' vol. 25 , pp. 389-411 , Plates 2 , figs. 27 .
6 .
Juel , H. O. ( 1915 ) , " Untersuchungen fiber die Auflosung der Tapetenzellen in den Pollensaeken der Angiospermen , " ' Jahrb .
Wiss .
Bot. , ' vol. 56 , pp. 337-364 , Plates 4-8 .
7 .
Moore , J. E. S. ( 1895 ) , " On the structural changes in the reproductive cells during spermatogenesis of Elasmobranchs , " ' Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci. , ' vol. 38 , pp. 275-313 , Plates 13-16 , figs. 4 .
8 .
Morgan , T. H. , Sturtevant , A. H. , Muller , H. J. , and Bridges , C. B. ( 1915 ) , ' The Mechanism of Mendelian Heredity , ' New York .
9 .
Wilson , E. B. ( 1912 ) , " Studies on Chromosomes , VIII : Observations on the maturation phenomena in certain Hemiptera and other forms , with considerations on synapsis and reduction , " 'Journ .
Exptl .
Zool. , ' vol. 13 , pp. 345-448 , Plates 9 .
VOL. XCI.\#151 ; B. T

