IV .
" On the Development of Electric Currents by Magnetism and Heat .
" By G. GORE , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1868 .
I have devised the following apparatus for demonstrating a relation of current electricity to magnetism and heat .
AA , fig. 3 , is a wooden base , upon which is supported , by four brass clamps , two , B , B , on each side , a coil of wire , C ; the coil is 6 inches long , 1 inch external diameter , and 3 of an inch internal diameter , lined with a thin glass tube ; it consists of 18 layers , or about 3000 turns of insulated copper wire of 0'415 millirn .
diameter ( or size No. 26 of ordinary wiregauge ) ; D is a permanent bar-magnet held in its place by the screws E , E , and having upon its poles two flat armatures of soft iron , F , F , placed edgewise .
Within the axis of the coil is a straight wire of soft iron , G , one end of which is held fast by the pillar-screw H , and the other by the cylindrical binding-screw I ; the latter screw has a hook , to which is attached a vulcanized india-rubber band , J , which is stretched and held secure by the hooked brass rod K and the pillar-screw L. The screw H is surmounted by a small mercury cup for making connexions with one pole of a voltaic battery , the other pole of the battery being secured to the pillar-screw M , which is also surmounted by a small mercury cup , and is connected with the cylindrical binding-screw I by a copper wire with a middle flattened portion 0 to impart to it flexibility .
The two ends of the fine wire coil are soldered to two small binding-screws at the back ; those screws are but partly shown in the sketch , and are for the purpose of connexion with a suitable galvanometer .
The armatures F , F are grooved on their upper edges , and the iron wire lies in these grooves in contact with them ; and to prevent the electric current passingo through the magnet , a small piece of paper or other thin non-conductor is inserted between the magnet and one of the armatures .
The battery employed consisted of six Grove 's eleinents ( arranged in one series ) , with the immersed portion of platinum plates about 5 inches by 3 inches ; it was suiciently strong to heat an iron wire 1'03 millim. diameter and 20'5 centimus .
long to a low red heat .
By making the contacts of the battery in unison with the movements of the galvanometer-needles , a swing of about 12 degrees of the needles each way was obtained .
The galvanometer was not a very sensitive one ; it contained 192 turns of wire .
Similar results were obtained with a coil 8 inches long and 14 inch diameter containing 16 layers , or about 3776 turns of wire of 0'415 millinm .
diameter ( or No. 26 of ordinary wire-gauge ) , and a permanent magnet 10 inches long .
Less effects were obtained with a 6-inch coil consisting of 40 layers , or about 10,000 turns of wire 0'10 millim. diameter , also with several other coils .
The maximum effect of 12 degrees each way with six Grove 's cells in one series was obtained when the wire became visibly red-hot , and this occurred with an iron wire 1*03 millilm .
diameter ( or No. 19 of ordinary wire-gauge ) ; but when employing ten such cells as a double series of five , the maximum effect was then obtained with an iron wire ( size Nos. 17 and 18 ) 1 '28 to 1*58 millirn .
diameter , the deflection being 16 degrees each way .
By employing a still thicker wire and a battery of greater heating-power still greater effects were obtained .
The galvanometer was placed about 8 ( and in some instances 12 ) feet distant from the coil .
A reversal of the direction of the battery current did not reverse or perceptibly affect the current induced in the coil ; but by reversing the poles of the magnet , the direction of the induced current was reversed .
On disconnecting the battery , and thereby cooling the iron wire , a reversed direction of induced current was produced .
By substituting a wire of pure nickel 24'5 centims. long and 2'1 millims. diameter , induced currents were obtained as with the iron , but they were more feeble .
No induced current occurred by heating the iron wire if the magnet was absent ; nor was any induced current obtained if the magnet was present and ' wires of palladium , platinum , gold , silver , copper , brass , or german-silver were heated to redness instead of iron wire ; nor with a rod of bismuth 3'63 millims. diameter enclosed in a glass tube and heated nearly to fusion ; it is evident , therefore , that the axial wire must be composed of a magnetic metal .
No continuous current ( or only a very feeble one ) was produced in the coil by continuously heating the iron wire .
In several experiments , by employing twelve similar Grove 's elements as a double series of six intensity , an iron wire 1 56 millim. diameter was made bright red-hot ; and by keeping the current continuous until the galvanometer-needles settled nearly at zero , and then suddenly disconnecting the battery , the needles remained nearly stationary during several seconds , and then went rapidly to about 10 : this slow decline of the current during the first few seconds of cooling was probably connected with the " momentary molecular change of iron wire " during cooling which I have described in the preceding paper .
The irregularity of movement of the needles did not occur unless the wire was bright red-hot , a condition which was also necessary for obtaining the molecular change .
The direction of the current induced by heating the iron wire was found by experiment to be the same as that which was produced by removing the magnetfrom the coil ; therefore the heat acted simply by diminishing the magnetism , and the results were in accordance with , and afford a further confirmation of , the general law , that wherever there is increasing or decreasing magnetism , there is a tendency to an electric current in a conductor at right angles to it .

