A Description of the Anatomy of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read December 17 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 67 .
] Two specimens of this curious animal , lately brought from New South Wales , the one male and the other female , and both full grown and perfect , having been submitted to the inspection and close examination of Mr. Home , by Sir Joseph Banks , this gentleman has availed himself of the favourable opportunity to draw up the full account of all that is hitherto known concerning its habits , of its external appearance , and internal structure now before us .
The animal has hitherto been only found in the fresh-water lakes in the interior parts of the above-mentioned country .
It does not swim upon the surface of the water , but comes up occasionally to breathe .
It chiefly inhabits the banks of these lakes , and is supposed to feed in the muddy places which surround them ; but the particular kind of food on which it subsists is not known .
As in its anatomical structure this animal differs in many respects from other quadrupeds , those who interest themselves in inquiries of this nature will be gratified to find in this paper a comparative view of those deviations ; and when they have satisfied themselves in this respect , they will probably allow that it is long since facts so singular and novel have been brought to light respecting the science of comparative anatomy .
Being obliged , as is usual in all descriptive communications of this kind , to refer to the paper itself for an adequate estimate of ts rmerits , we shall dvell briefly upon a few of the most striking peculiarities , from which some idea may be gathered of the importance of this performance .
Besides four grinding teeth , one at each end of the two jaws , the animal has two small pointed horny teeth upon the projecting part of the posterior portion of the tongue , the points of which are directed forwards .
These , it is thought , are intended to prevent the food from being pushed into the fauces during the process of mastication ; and such have as yet been observed in no animal exceptthe flamingo , which has a row of similar small teeth at each side of the tongue .
The fifth pair of nerves , which supplies the muscles of the face , and extend to the membrane that covers the bills , were found uncommonly large ; whence it is inferred that probably the sensibility of the different parts of this bill is very great , and that being capable of nice discrimination in its feeling , it answers in some respects the purposes of a hand .
A striking peculiarity is observed in the structure of the bones of the chest .
The scapulae , which are of an uncommon shape , are not connected with the chest , but with a bone placed above the sternum , the upper part of which answers the purpose of clavicles .
The cartilages also of the ribs are not placed next the sternum but between two portions , and about the middle of each rib : and the false ribs have their cartilages terminated by thin bony scales , which slide on one another in the motions of the chest .
From this singular construction , it appears that the capacity of the chest can undergo a very considerable degree of contraction and dilatation .
On each of the hind legs of the male , at the setting on of the heel , is a crooked , strong , sharp-pointed spur , which is retractile , but may be considerably extended .
Its use is conjectured to be the confining the female in the act of copulation : but in nothing , perhaps , does this animal differ more from the other quadrupeds than in the parts of generation .
Externally there is no appearance of these organs in either sex , the orifice of the anus being a common opening to the rectum and prepuce in the male , and to the rectum and vagina in the female .
The testicles are situated in the cavity of the abdomen , the glans penis is double , one part being directed to the right and the other to the left .
The female has no regularly formed uterus , but towards the end of the vagina are two openings , each leading into a cavity resembling the horn of the uterus in quadrupeds , but terminating in a fallopian tube , which opens into the capsule , of an ovarium .
From various circumstances attending this singular configuration , and from some analogy it bears to the similar organ in birds , our author is inclined to believe that this animal will be found to be oviparous in its mode of generation ,

