70 Mr. 6 .
Gore on Fluoride of Silver .
[ Dec. 7f stances in general ; out of 132 substances only 14 were dissolved , and not a single one exhibited signs of strong chemical action .
III .
" On Fluoride of Silver.\#151 ; Part By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received October 6 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author has finally shown that the action of iodine , under the influence of heat ( including the process described by Kammerer , Phil. Mag. 1863 , vol. xxv .
p. 213 , for the isolation of fluorine ) , does not liberate uncombined fluorine , but produces fluoride of iodine and iodide of silver , a double salt , composed of iodide of silver and fluoride of platinum , being produced at the same time by corrosion of the platinum vessels , if the temperature approaches a red heat .
The fluoride of iodine produced is a highly volatile and colourless liquid , does not corrode mercury or red-hot platinum , corrodes glass at 60 ' Fahr. , and crystals of silicon at a red heat , also platinum in contact with argentic fluoride in a state of fusion ; it instantly turns a deal splint black , fumes powerfully in the air , and is decomposed with violence by water into hydrofluoric and iodic acids , in accordance with the following equation:\#151 ; IF5-f-3H20=5HF+HI03 .
It dissolves iodine , and is absorbed by that substance ; it is also absorbed either by argentic fluoride or iodide when those substances are cooled in its vapour , and may be expelled from them at a red heat .
Its vapour quickly darkens the colour of a deal splint , and very gradually turns paraffin brown .
The platinum vessels in which the reaction with iodine was effected were considerably corroded ( but less so than when bromine or chlorine were employed ) , and many expensive vessels were rendered useless by this cause during the experiments .
No chemical change occurred on heating argentic fluoride to redness with pure carbon .
By heating this fluoride to redness in a current of dried coal-gas , it was wholly reduced to metallic silver , hydrofluoric acid and tetrafluoride of carbon being evolved .
In liquid cyanogen , argentic fluoride neither dissolved nor suffered chemical change ; but at a low red heat , in a current of dry cyanogen gas , it was entirely reduced to metal , either nitrogen and tetrafluoride of carbon , or fluoride of cyanogen being liberated .
An aqueous solution of silver fluoride was precipitated by passing a prolonged current of cyanogen gas through it .
Fluoride of silver was also decomposed by fusion with para-cyanogen .
Argentic fluoride was not dissolved or chemically changed by immersion in anhydrous liquified hydrocyanic acid ; but by passing the dry acid in vapour over the red-hqjt salt , the latter was decomposed and metallic 1871 .
] Mr. G. Gore on Fluoride of Silver .
silver liberated .
Aqueous hydrocyanic acid readily precipitated a solution of argentic fluoride .
Fluoride of silver was not decomposed by heating it to redness in an atmosphere of carbonic oxide or carbonic acid gases ; but by prolonged passage of the mixed gases through an aqueous solution of the salt , a brown precipitate , soluble in aqueous hydrofluoric acid , was produced .
By fusing the fluoride in a current of vaporous terchloride of carbon , it was wholly converted into argentic chloride , the vessels being much corroded , and an insoluble double salt of platinum and silver formed .
Similar results took place on using tetrachloride of carbon .
Silver fluoride was insoluble , and remained unchanged in liquid tetrachloride of carbon at 60 ' Fahr. ; and terchloride or tetrachloride of carbon had no chemical effect upon an aqueous solution of the silver-salt .
A solution of bromine or iodine in tetrachloride of carbon was quickly decolorized by agitation with small particles of argentic fluoride .
Crystals of boron did not decompose fluoride of silver at a low red heat , nor chemically change at 60 ' Fahr. an aqueous solution of the salt containing either free hydrofluoric or nitric acids .
Vitrified boracic acid violently decomposed fluoride of silver in a state of fusion , emitting copious white acid fumes ; but it had no chemical effect upon an aqueous solution of the salt at 60 ' Fahr. By placing crystals of silicon upon argentic fluoride in a state of fusion , they become at once red-hot , undergoing rapid combustion , and evolving fluoride of silicon .
A lump of fused silicon slowly decomposed an aqueous solution of fluoride of silver , setting free metallic silver in crystals .
Crystals of silver behaved similarly , but much more rapidly , and evolved abundance of gas if the solution contained free hydrofluoric acid ; on adding nitric acid to this mixture , bubbles of spontaneously inflammable sili-cide of hydrogen gas were evolved and ignited .
Pure and dry precipitated silica added to fluoride of silver , at a temperature of low redness , evolved much heat , with violent action , and set free metallic silver .
No chemical change took place on passing fluoride of silicon over red-hot fluoride of silver .
Argentic fluoride in a state of fusion is rapidly decomposed by sulphur with evolution of heat ; fluoride of sulphur is at the same time produced , and argentic sulphide formed .
To ascertain whether fluoride of sulphur is a gas or a volatile liquid , an apparatus called a " gas-collector " was devised and employed , and a full description of its construction is given .
By using this apparatus , substances may be heated without contact with the external air , and without subjecting the joints of the apparatus in which they are heated to leakage by expansion or contraction of the gaseous eontents .
Fluoride of sulphur was found to be a heavy colourless vapour , uncondensable at the temperature of melting ice and at the ordinary atmoDr .
J. Stenhouse Chlorine- and [ Dec. 21 , spheric pressure .
It corrodes glass , fumes strongly in the air , and has a characteristic and very powerful dusty odour , not very unlike that of a mixture of chloride of sulphur and sulphurous anhydride .
Sulphur rapidly decomposed an aqueous solution of argentic fluoride .
Sulphurous anhydride passed over fluoride of silver at an incipient red heat , produced little or no decomposition of the silver-salt .
Vaporous fluoride of sulphur also produced no visible effect .
By passing the vapour of liquid chloride of sulphur over the fluoride in a state of fusion , chemical action occurred , a vapour was evolved which corroded glass and possessed a dusty odour , but did not condense to a liquid ; it was probably fluoride of sulphur .
The saline residue consisted of argentic chloride and sulphide .
A solution of argentic fluoride was decomposed by agitation with liquid chloride of sulphur , hydrofluoric acid being evolved , and argentic chloride and sulphide produced .
Argentic fluoride did not dissolve in bisulphide of carbon .
By passing the vapour of the latter substance over the silver-salt at a red heat , a chemical change took place , and a fuming acid vapour was evolved , in accordance with the following'tequation 4AgF+CS2=2Ag2S + CF4 .
A solution of bromine or iodine in bisulphide of carbon was rapidly decolorized by agitation with particles of argentic fluoride , and the liquid acquired the odour of tetrafluoride of carbon .
December 21,1871 .
GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " Contributions to the History of Orcin.\#151 ; No. II .
Chlorine- and Bromine-substitution Compounds of the Orcins .
" By John Stenhouse , LL. D. , P.R.S. , \amp ; c.* * * S Received October 11 , 1871 .
Schunckf , and subsequently the author of this paper* , many years ago studied the action of chlorine upon orcin , and obtained more or less crystalline products , contaminated with a brown resinous matter , from which however , they did not succeed in separating the crystals in a state of purity .
In the year 1864 De Luynes S obtained a crystalline substance by acting on orcin with a mixture of potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid .
De Luynes states it to be trichlororcine , C7 Hs Cl3 Oa , and in Kekule 's * Benzol-derivate5 the melting-point is given at 159 ' .
* A preliminary notice of several of the compounds described in this paper appeared in the Chem. News , vol. xxiii .
p. 230 , and Zeits .
Chem. vol. vii .
p. 229 .
f Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. liv .
p. 271 . .
+ Phil. Trans. 1848 , p. 88 , and Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. lxvii .
p. 97 .
S Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. cxxx .
p. 34 ; KekultTs * Benzolderivate , ' vol. i. p. 388 .

