The Croonian Lecture .
On the Internal Structure of the Human Brain , when examined in the Microscope , as compared with that of Fishes , Insects and Worms .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read November 20 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 1 .
] In this lecture the author pursues his researches respecting the anatomy of the human brain , and compares it with that of fishes , insects , and worms , in the hope of developing the connexion between the action of the nerves and the motion of the muscles .
To obviate the sources of error attendant upon the usual methods of dissecting and examining the brain , a portion of it in a very recent state was submitted to the microscope , after having been immersed in distilled water .
Rows of globules were thus detected passing in straight lines from the circumference of the cortical substance into the medullary portion , the appearance of which is shown by Mr. Bauer in an annexed drawing .
From a representation , also by Mr. Bauer , of the tench , it appears that its relative proportion to the size of the animal is smaller than in the bird , -that it has a central cavity and a nodulated basis .
In insects the brain contains , and its principal portion is connected by , nervous chords , with what is usually called a ganglion , but which , when examined accurately , is found to resemble the brain in texture , and which , from the office of the nerves it sends off , the author considers , as Medulla oblongata .
Below this is a regular line of ganglions united by a double nerve , the details of these structures being illustrated by annexed drawings .
Among insects the bee has the largest proportion of brain relative to the size of its body .
In the moth and caterpillar it is smaller , but similar in structure , as also in the lobster .
In the garden snail the brain is relatively larger than in the bee , but there are no ganglions , although the structure of the Medulla spinalis is the same .
In all animals the minute structure of the brain , as detected by the microscope , appears in a measure similar , consisting of globules , and a more or less fluid and often elastic transparent matter .
The ganglions appear also similarly composed in all the animal tribes of a congeries of nervous fibres .

