1895 .
] Preliminary Statement on the Sorus of Danosa .
141 an interesting intermediate position ; the replacement of the sunken sporangia of Ophioglossum by projecting sporangiophores in thostachys suggests , as already indicated in the preliminary statement ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 50 , p. 265 ) , an interesting analogy with the hypothetical origin of the strobilus of from a body of the nature of a sporogonial head .
The chief object in view in these investigations has not been the mere tracing of homologies of parts among living forms ; but , by developmental study and comparison , the following out of the probable methods of progression in the evolution of the more complex from the simpler types .
It is believed that all the three methods of increase in number of separate sporangia , suggested in the former memoir ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1894 , vol. B , p. 473 ) , have been employed , viz. ( i ) septation , ( ii ) branching or chorisis , ( iii ) a reversion of vegetative parts to the sporogenous condition .
In addition to these , however , there has probably occurred also an eruption of appendicular organs from a previously smooth surface .
This has already been suggested elsewhere ( ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 8 , p. 343 ) ; the sporangiophores of l\#163 ; elminthostachysmay be taken as an interesting example of such eruption .
It will be thus seen that the memoir , of which this is a very brief abstract , touches some of the most fundamental conceptions of the morphology of vascular plants , approaching them , not from the point of view derived from comparison of higher forms , but from the study and comparison of organisms which are believed to be nearer to the border line between Bryopliyta and Vascular plants , viz. , the Homosporous Pteridophyta .
II .
" Preliminary Statement on the Sorus of .
" By F. 0 .
Bower , F.R.S. , Regius Professor of Botany , University of Glasgow .
Received November 29 , 1895 .
The sorus of Dancea , though its structure in the mature state has been repeatedly described , has not yet been studied as regards its development .
The oblong , cake-like sori lie parallel to one another on the lower surface of the leaf , their longer axes following the course of the vascular bundles .
Each sorus consists of two rows of loculi , of approximately equal size , completely sunk in the rather massive tissue of the wall .
Dehiscence is described as being by a pore at the apex of each loculus .
The sporogenous tissue of each loculus is usually referable to the segmentation of a single superficial cell , which gives rise to it , and to the portion of the sporangial wall above it .
There is , however , great variety of bulk , number of cells , and mode of segmentation 142 Preliminary Statement on the Soras of Dansea .
[ Dec. 5 , in adjoining sporangia ; though the sporangia of the same sorus develop simultaneously , such extreme differences of number as between 4 and 16 cells may be seen in the same section .
Moreover , the whole sporogenons group is not always referable to a single parent cell .
These facts stand in marked contrast to the uniformity of size and segmentation so characteristic of the Lepto-sporangiate Ferns .
The dehiscence is by slits , which appear in the sporangial wall above the loculus .
By the drying and contraction of the adjoining cells the slit gapes widely , and appears as a pore ; but the details are very like those of other Marattiaceee , excepting that there is no " annulus " of indurated cells .
This , which is absent in where the loculi are deeply sunk , is present in those Marattiaceae in which the sporangia project as separate papillae .
In the latter case the annulus is mechanically effective in widening the slit ; in the former , the sporangia being closely united , such mechanical effect would be impossible .
Though the loculi of a sorus are frequently of nearly uniform size , examples may often be found where they vary to an extreme degree ; and these have an important bearing upon the theory of septation ; for cases of incomplete septation are often to be recognised in the mature sorus , while the study of earlier stages has revealed almost all imaginable steps between the single loculus and two loculi lying side by side as an obvious pair .
Such pairs of loculi are common ; sometimes the septum between them is of the average thickness ; sometimes thin , but still complete , with firm , permanent tissue continuous across it ; sometimes the permanent tissue is incomplete , and the septum composed in its middle part only of tapetum , which disappears at maturity ; sometimes a large loculus will be seen with only slight encroachments of tapetum upon the sporogenous group , thus indicating the position , though not realising the complete development of a possible septum ; the last step of the series would be simply a loculus larger than the average , and these are common .
An analytical study of the tissues shows that the tissue of these partial septa may have either of two sources of origin : ( 1 ) single cells of the sporogenous group , are liable to development as sterile cells ; this has been seen in sporangia which even approach the normal ; ( 2 ) the surrounding tissue may encroach on the sporogenous group , in the form of tapetal cells , which , when their development is considerable , is followed by cells of permanent tissue of the wall ; in these cases the partial septa will be clearly seen in the mature state .
The similarity between these results and what is known in the case of septate anthers of Angiosperms is of peculiar interest ; in these anthers partial septa are common , and a detailed comparison of them with those of Dancea suggests that the phenomena are closely alike .
1895 .
] On the Weight of a Cubic Decimetre of'Water .
143 But , in the case of the Angiospermic anthers , we conclude , on comparative grounds , that progressive septation has taken place ; this would indirectly support the view that the sorus of Dancea is also a result of progressive septation .
Obviously such a series of stages as that presented by Dancea may be read either way , and it would be possible to urge that in them we have evidence , not of progressive septation , but of fusion of loculi .
This question must be considered on grounds of general probability .
Without at the moment declaring a final opinion ( though I think the probability is largely in favour of a view of progressive septation ) , this point , at least , seems clear : that in Dancea the identity of the sporangium or loculus is not strictly defined .
1 o arrive at this point is , in my opinion , a matter of some importance ; the study of the sporangium in Pteridophyta has long been based upon the examination of the highly specialised and strictly constructed sporangium of the Leptosporangiatse .
The conclusion is , however , becoming obvious that such strictness of construction and regularity of segmentation is exceptional , and that in the Eusporangiatse such strictness is not the rule .
Other Marattiacere , and especially have also been examined , and they are all found to conform to one fundamental type , though differing in detail ; it appears that , as regards the sorus , Dancea is the least specialised , and Angiopteris the most specialised , of the living genera , and that they form a very natural series .
Such a series in plants of so antique a stock deserves the most careful comparative study , and the results should carry unusual weight .
III .
" On the Weight of a Cubic Decimetre of Water at its Maximum Density .
" By D. Mendeleeff , For .
Mem. R.S. Received October 16 , 1895 .
The investigations of Sir George Shuckburgh Evelyn , published in the year 1798 , * after allowing for the new measures made by Captain Kater , f as well as for all corrections according to our present knowledge of the weight of a litre of air and on the expansion of water , give the result that the weight of a cubic decimetre of water at its maximum density ( 4 ' C. ) in vacuo is equal to 1000'56 grams .
+ But in these investigations the separate determinations show differences of * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1798 , p. 133 .
f 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1821 , Part II , p. 316 .
X All these corrections are made in I ) .
MendeleefE 's paper ( in Russian ) in the Vremennik ( Bulletin ) of the Central Chamber of Weights and Measures ( Chambre Centrale des Poids et Mesures ) , Part II , pp. 11\#151 ; 19 .
( 'Journal of the Russian Physico-Chemical Society , ' 1895 .
)

