384 Mr. F. Chambers on Barometric Pressure , fyc .
[ June 19 , Y. " On the Mathematical Expression of Observations of Complex Periodical Phenomena , and on Planetary Influence on the Earth 's Magnetism .
" By Charles Chambers , F.R.S. and F. Chambers .
Received May 26 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The authors propose in this paper to determine , by Bessel 's method , a mathematical expression for a periodical phenomenon from observations which are affected by one or more other periodical phenomena , and to find criteria for judging of the extent to which the expression is affected by these other phenomena : to find also the true period from observations of a single periodical phenomenon of which the period is only approximately known ; or , having found an expression for a period of known approximation to the truth , to find from it the expression for the true period .
In the course of these inquiries , certain ambiguities which affect similarly Bessel 's expression for a single periodic phenomenon and the results here arrived at are remarked upon ; and , finally , the results are applied to determine the nature of periodic planetary phenomena in a particular case .
VI .
" The Diurnal Variations of the Wind and Barometric Pressure at Bombay .
" By F. Chambers .
Communicated by Charles Chambers , F.R.S. , Director of the Colaba Observatory , Bombay .
Received May 26 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to bring to notice a remarkable relation that has been found to exist between the diurnal variations of the wind and the barometer at Bombay .
I The observations made use of are the records of a Robinson 's anemograph during the first three years of its performance , viz. from June 1867 to May 1870 , and the corresponding hourly observations of the barometer and the dry- and wet-bulb thermometer made at the Government Observatory , Bombay .
.* : The mean results for each hour of the day during the whole penod and the mean diurnal variations of each element are tabulated and gr*| phically represented by figures .
The diurnal variation of the wind \#187 ; then investigated , the most influential part of which is attributed to the land- and sea-breezes which blow from E.S.E. and W.N. .
, an ^ shown to follow mainly the same law of progression as the temperature of the air , thus affording confirmatory evidence of the truth of Halley^ theory of the trade-winds as applied to land- and sea-breezes .
Some peculiarities of the curve representing the land- and sea-hreeW* are then pointed out , and these , the writer concludes , are due to the supe 1873.1 Dr. It .
S. Ball 's Researches Dynamics .
385 position of another distinct variation having two maxima and two minima , in the twenty-four hours , like the barometer variation ; and he supports his views by a reference to the variation of the east components of the wind in the months of July and August , when the land- and sea-breezes have almost disappeared .
This is found to exhibit a decided double period .
The north components of the land- and sea-breezes are then approximately eliminated from the north components of the whole variation , and the variation which then remains exhibits a very decided double period in this direction also .
These variations with double periods are regarded as indicative of the existence of a double diurnal variation in the general movements of the atmosphere .
Upon this hypothesis typical diurnal variations of the wind are deduced for north and south low latitudes\#151 ; that for north latitudes exhibiting a double diurnal right-handed rotation , and that for south latitudes a double diurnal left-handed rotation ; and from these the diurnal variation of the barometer is deduced .
The movements of the wind-vane at Bombay are then analyzed ; and the writer concludes that the greater part of the excess of " direct " over " retrograde " rotation of the vane at Bombay is due to the diurnal variation of the wind .
Extracts are given from observations made at St. Helena , Toronto , and Ealmouth , showing the character of the diurnal wind-variations at those places , and their greater or less agreement with the deduced typical curves .
The writer maintains that these variations afford independently a possible , if not a probable , explanation of that movement of the air which Dove had called the " Law of Gyrationand , in conclusion , he points to the extent of their applicability in deducing weathep probabilities , and to the method of discussing storms .
A postscript is added , giving the mean diurnal variation of the wind at Sandwick Manse , Orkney , and pointing out its general conformity with the results deduced from the Bombay wind-observations .
VII .
" Researches in the Dynamics of a Rigid Body by the aid of the Theory of Screws .
" By Robert Stawell Ball , LL. D. Communicated by Professor Cayley .
Received May 29 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains some developments of a theory sketched in the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy , vol. xxv .
p. 157 .
Part I. discusses the quantity of energy necessary to give a body a twist about one screw while acted upon by a wrench about another screw .
The expression virtual coefficient is defined , and application is made of the reciprocal character of the virtual coefficient to solve the problem of resolving a wrench along six given screws .

