Reflex Rhythm Induced by Excitation and Inhibition .
289 bility that could not be overlooked if the phenomenon occurred alone in the decerebrate preparation .
14 .
A possible explanation of the conditioning of rhythmic activity is given in the present paper in a contracted form .
It has already been presented , along with a more detailed account of these experiments , to the University of Edinburgh .
Reflex Rhythm Induced by Concurrent Excitation and Inhibition .
By Alexander Forbes , M.A. , M.D. , Harvard .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received April 11 , \#151 ; Read May 16 , 1912 .
) ( From the Laboratories of Physiology in the Harvard Medical School and in the University of Liverpool .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE .
I. Introduction ... ... ... .
, ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
289 II .
Method ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 290 III .
^Observations ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
290 ( ?
) Oscillations resulting from Two Opposed Stimuli ... . .
291 ( ?
) Oscillations resulting from a Single Stimulus ... ... 294 IV .
Conclusion ... .
, ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 297 I. Introduction .
In a paper on " Antagonism between Reflex Inhibition and Reflex Excitation , " * Sherrington has shown that the combined effects of excitatory and inhibitory stimuli produce a response intermediate between those of the two stimuli acting singly .
Prof. Cannon , of Harvard , called my attention to certain minute oscillations which occur in Sherrington 's myograph line where it represents the response of muscle to the combined effects of the opposed stimuli , f and suggested that these might have an important significance .
They might mean that the nerve impulses in breaking through the opposition imposed by inhibition were subjected to a condition analogous to a stream of air passing out from a tube under water .
J It seemed possible that just as the air bubbles will be larger and more infrequent if the opening of the tube * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 80 , p. 565 .
+ Cf .
also ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 81 , p. 258 .
+ Of .
Rosenthal , ' Die Atembewegungen und ihre Beziehungen zum Nervus Vagus , ' Berlin , 1862 .
Dr. A. Forbes .
Rhythm [ Apr. 11 , be deeply submerged than if near the surface , so the nerve impulses might be rendered more intense and more infrequent in overcoming the opposing influence of inhibition .
On account of the impossibility of recording nerve impulses with the myograph I have planned to investigate the question by electrical methods .
But in the course of another series of experiments I have obtained records whose bearing on the problem renders them of interest .
II .
Method .
In the experiments in which these records were obtained the method was that employed throughout the experiments already reported.* Briefly , it was as follows:\#151 ; The animal ( cat ) was decerebrated under ether ( or chloroform-ether ) anaesthesia .
All or nearly all muscles were paralysed by section of their nerves , except the right vastocrureus ( knee extensor ) .
In some cases the right peroneal nerve was stimulated to produce reflex inhibition and the left popliteal nerve to produce reflex excitation ; in some cases the whole left sciatic nerve was used for excitation , and either the whole right sciatic nerve or the right popliteal or peroneal was used for inhibition .
The femur was fixed , and the apparatus so arranged that contraction of the vastocrureus muscle was shown by a rise in the myograph line .
The afferent nerves were stimulated by faradisation from two induction coils .
The primary current , common to both , was interrupted between 30 and 50 times a second by a circuit breaker run by a motor .
In the later experiments ( at Liverpool ) a commutator was introduced into the secondary circuit used for inhibitory stimuli , so arranged that it delivered to the nerve only break shocks and those alternately in ascending and descending direction .
, Defects which resulted from wear of the commutator after many experiments appeared to have an important effect on the reflex responses which will be discussed later .
The strength of the stimuli was estimated in accordance with Martin 's scale.f In the earlier experiments ( at Harvard ) , coils calibrated by him were employed .
In the later experiments ( at Liverpool ) , an empirical approximation to Martin 's units was used .
III .
Observations .
Two types of observation are dealt with here ; those in which two afferent nerves were simultaneously stimulated , and those in which only one nerve was stimulated .
* " Reflex Inhibition of Skeletal Muscle , " in course of publication in ' Quart .
Journ. Exp. Physiol. ' t ' Amer .
Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 22 , pp. 61 and 116 .
1912 .
] Induced by Concurrent Excitation and Inhibition .
291 ( a ) Oscillations Resulting from two Opposed Stimuli .
In the case of the simultaneous stimulation of the two afferent nerves , excitatory and inhibitory , various relative strengths of the opposed stimuli were employed .
In an early experiment , the inhibitory stimulus being strong enough almost to prevent contraction , slight oscillations were produced by combined stimulation , as is shown in fig. 1.* The figure shows first the contraction from the excitatory stimulus acting alone , then the response resulting from an excitatory stimulus of the same strength Fig. 1.\#151 ; Vastocrureus preparation .
Time-marker below records intervals of I second .
( Harvard .
) opposed by inhibition two minutes later .
The oscillations in this response occur at a rate of about seven a second .
In another animal with marked decerebrate rigidity , the opposed stimuli were carefully adjusted until , when applied simultaneously , no immediate change in the length of the muscle occurred .
Almost immediately , * In this and all subsequent figures , ascent of the myograph line means contraction of the muscle .
The excitatory stimulus is marked by a rite in the upper signal line ( E ) .
The inhibitory stimulus is marked by a fall in the lower signal line ( I ) .
The strength of stimulus in Martin units is indicated by figures on the records .
All read from left to right .
292 Dr. A/ Forbes .
Reflex Rhythm [ Apr. 11 1912.1 Induced by Concurrent Excitation and Inhibition .
293 however , marked irregular oscillations appeared and continued as long as the combined stimulation was maintained .
In a third animal in which decerebrate rigidity was not marked , the inhibitory stimulus was made strong enough to reduce the contraction of the muscle to about half the amount produced by the excitatory stimulus alone .
The oscillations , which were even more marked than in the case described above , are shown in fig. 2 .
The excitatory arc was stimulated with 9 units , the inhibitory arc with 5*5 units .
Here it will be seen that the muscle was in a state of tremor when the excitatory stimulus was first applied , but the resulting contraction was comparatively free from tremor ; then , when the inhibitory stimulus was added , the resulting relaxation was immediately followed by irregular oscillations at a rate of four or five a second .
With continuance of the combined stimulation these became more marked and more regular , and slowed to a rate of about one a second .
In a more recent experiment at Liverpool , similar but less marked oscillations were obtained by simultaneous opposed stimuli ( fig. 3 ) .
Here the inhibitory stimulus was applied to the whole sciatic nerve .
The electrodes had been in contact with the nerve for a long time , and local impairment had occurred .
The strong stimuli indicated in the figure do not , , therefore , represent correspondingly strong central stimuli .
The oscillations occur at a rate of about eight or ten a second .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Time-marker records in seconds .
( Liverpool .
) Dr. A. Forbes .
Reflex Rhythm [ Apr. 11 , ( b ) Oscillations Resulting from a Single Stimulus .
In several eases I have observed oscillations during the application of an inhibitory ( ipsilateral ) stimulus alone .
The significance of these I take to be dependent on the fact reported by Sherrington and Sowton , * that by modifying the character of electrical stimulus applied to an ipsilateral afferent nerve , the usual inhibitory reflex effect in the extensor muscle may be replaced by excitation .
They find that weak or inabrupt stimuli tend to produce the excitatory effect , while stronger and more abrupt stimuli inhibit .
Evidently , the stimulus applied to the ipsilateral nerve exerts both an inhibitory and an excitatory influence on the extensor moto-neurones , and it depends on the character of the stimulus , perhaps also on the condition of the preparation , which influence dominates .
The authors propose an explanation of their findings , on the assumption that there are two sets of afferent nerve fibres responding in different degrees to different kinds of stimuli .
I have already proposed an alternative explanation , f namely , that there is only one set of afferent fibres , but that they branch on reaching the cord , and are connected with two centres of opposite influences .
In support of this is the well-known fact that most afferent fibres do branch on reaching the cord , also the fact that there are known to be two centres of opposite influence upon extensor muscles .
There is a local centre in the spinal cord through which an afferent nerve may inhibit the extensors , and there is a centre in the region between the hind edge of the pons and the corpora quadrigemina which is essential to the maintenance of decerebrate rigidity , and is thus shown to exert an excitatory influence upon the extensor .
Altogether , four possible explanations may be framed for the presence of the opposed influences resulting from the single stimulus , as follows:\#151 ; A. A single set of fibres acts upon a single centre , but exerts a different influence upon that centre under one kind of stimulus from what it does tinder another kind .
B. A single set of fibres branches , and acts on two reflex centres of opposite influences .
C. Two sets of afferent fibres from qualitatively different receptors , and themselves differently sensitive , act with opposite effects upon a single centre .
D. Two sets of fibres , of qualitatively different sensitivity , act on two centres of opposite , influence , and each set of fibres passes to its proper centre .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 83 , p. 435 .
t Loc .
cit. 1912.1 Induced by Concurrent Excitation and Inhibition .
295 Of these four possible explanations , I believe B involves less needless assumptions than any of the others .
On this assumption a reflex view of the knee-jerk would call for a third reflex arc , one of excitatory influence whose centre must be local , since it clearly does not involve the hind-brain directly .
In this connection it is of interest to consider a record obtained from the knee extensor with a series of stimuli of progressively increasing strength delivered to the ipsilateral sciatic nerve ( fig. 4 ) .
The record is in certain respects similar to those shown by Sherrington and Sowton.* It presents one difference : with a stimulus of 18 units three phases occur in response to a single stimulus\#151 ; initial contraction on application of the stimulus , Fig. 4.\#151 ; Time-marker records in seconds .
( Liverpool .
) inhibition during the continuance of the stimulus , and " rebound contraction " on cessation of the stimulus . !
Sherrington and Sowton record the first two phases with weak stimuli and the last two phases with strong stimuli , but in no case more than two phases with any one stimulus .
They have elsewhere* proposed tentatively an explanation of " rebound contraction " as the delayed expression of the excitatory content in the ipsilateral stimulus .
On the same lines it seems to me that the three phases occurring in response to the single stimulus of 18 units ( fig. 4 ) may possibly be explained as the discharges of the three reflex arcs assumed above on the view that the knee-jerk is a true reflex .
The initial * Loc .
tit , + Cf .
Graham Brown , * Quart .
Journ. Exp. Physiol. , ' vol. 4 , p. 366 .
f Unpublished paper on ' Reflex Rebound , ' 1911 .
Dr. A. Forbes .
Reflex Rhythm [ Apr. 11 , contraction would then be due to the arc involved in the knee-jerk with its short latent period .
The inhibition following it , and persisting throughout the application of the stimulus , would be due to the preponderant influence of the spinal inhibitory centre .
The " rebound contraction , " on cessation of the stimulus , would be due to the deferred action of the excitatory centre in the hind-brain or mid-brain .
Such an interpretation is only a tentative conjecture at best , but it is quite clear that there is an excitatory content as well as inhibitory in the ipsilateral stimulus .
I have referred above to the defect in the commutator which appeared to influence reflex response .
I was unable to trace the cause of the defect or to learn its exact nature .
It was most clearly revealed by failure to maintain an even tetanus in the nerve muscle preparation .
The influence which it appeared to have on reflex response was the relative accentuation of the excitatory content of the ipsilateral stimulus .
This effect was inferred from the following facts .
In three consecutive preparations with which the commutator was employed for inhibitory stimuli after months of regular use , the threshold of inhibition was found to be abnormally high .
That is , it required a stimulus so strong that it threw the muscles of the trunk and fore-limbs into marked activity , and several times as strong as is usually needed to produce effective inhibition .
In two of these preparations , after prolonged inhibitory stimulation , the subsequent inhibitory response was improved instead of being impaired as is usually the case.* These facts seem to indicate that the quality of the stimulus delivered by the commutator was such as to favour the excitatory content in the reflex effect , and thus partly mask the inhibitory content .
Possibly the reflex condition of some of these animals favoured the appearance of the excitatory content .
In one of the three preparations just described , a stimulus of 32 units applied to the ipsilateral sciatic nerve only just sufficed to produce inhibition of the extensor .
Stimulation of the sciatic nerve with 42 units produced the oscillatory response shown in fig. 5 a. In a preparation which showed effective inhibition with 7 units applied to the ipsilateral peroneal nerve , a stimulus of 5 units also applied to the peroneal nerve caused similar but less marked oscillations ( fig. 5 b ) .
It seems to me probable that these oscillations occurring upon stimulation of a single ipsilateral nerve are akin to those which result from the stimulation of two afferent nerves whose effects are opposed , and that they are due to the opposition of reflex influences arising from the single stimulus .
At all * Forbes , ' Reflex Inhibition , ' etc. , loc. cit. 1912 .
] Induced by Concurrent Excitation and Inhibition .
297 events , they seem to be most evident when the excitatory content of the ipsilateral stimulus is demonstrable Fig. 5.\#151 ; Time-marker records in seconds .
( Liverpool .
) IY .
Conclusion .
Graham Brown has reported , * in the " de-afferented " low spinal preparation , regular movements of progression alternate contraction and relaxation in both extensors and flexors ) occurring in a transition from a predominantly flexed state to a predominantly extended state .
He regards this as a feature of " neural balance , " and concludesf that rhythmic activity is characteristic of concurrent flexor and extensor influences .
Although , in the cases I have described , the oscillations are usually far more rapid , and never attain the regularity and orderly character of the walking reflex or the scratch reflex studied by Graham Brown , yet the analogy is striking and probably highly significant .
Perhaps all are manifestations of a general tendency of opposed influences in reflex centres , although themselves continuous , to produce rhythmic activity .
If so , it is conceivable that some conditions of intensity or time relations produce the regular movements of progression by enabling the centres to fall into a rhythm natural to them , whereas other conditions entering into my experiments just miss the natural rhythm of the centres and produce a confused rhythm instead .
The general conditions underlying the production of rhythmic activity from a constant stimulus or source of energy are of fundamental interest .
No general law covers all cases , but the following conditions obtain in a number of instances , notably that of the stream of air emerging from a tube under water .
A source of energy tends to produce an increasing force ( A ) opposing a relatively constant force ( B ) which tends to keep the energy pent * ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 84 , p. 308 .
t ' Quart .
Journ. Exp. Physiol. , ' vol. 4 , pp. 393\#151 ; 394 .
VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; B. 771 A ' tr Peroneal X 298 Reflex Rhythm Induced by Excitation and Inhibition .
up or potential ; when ( A ) becomes greater than ( B ) the accumulated energy is released and becomes kinetic .
The force ( B ) need not be constant , but if it increases during the increase of ( A ) , its rate of increase must fall off below the rate of increase of ( A ) before the release can occur .
The crucial point is this : that when once the release of energy begins it proceeds until more energy is released than is represented by the excess of ( A ) over ( B ) .
The condition which determines this may be figured as a sort of momentum of discharge , although it may not involve inertia in any strict sense of the word .
I believe this consideration is important in connection with vital rhythmic activities .
Verworn* has described the series of events which condition intermittent strychnine convulsions .
He states that with a violent discharge there is a fall of irritability to the zero point .
But he does not emphasise the particular condition which makes the tissue discharge intermittently instead of continuously , namely , that the discharge once started does not stop when the excess of tension has been relieved , but proceeds to completion .
To develop rhythm of discharge there must be an approximation to the ?
all or none law " of the heart beat .
A group of " biogen molecules " ( Verworn ) , combining with oxygen and giving off cleavage products in accordance only with the law of mass action , would yield a continuous response to a continuous stimulus .
I believe these considerations have a general bearing on the oscillations shown in the figures .
We may suppose that there is in any given case a degree of activity which would be the resultant of the opposed tendencies if equilibrium ever occurred .
If these tendencies were in stable equilibrium at this neutral point any oscillations occurring at the outset would diminish and disappear as in the case of a pendulum coming to rest .
But the fact that the oscillations generally do not diminish , and sometimes increase , as in fig. 2 , shows that at the imaginary neutral point the tendencies are in unstable equilibrium .
Some property of the discharge carries it past this , neutral point and prevents the establishment of an equilibrium in which the discharge would steadily consume the excitatory tension .
There seems to be in the discharge of reflex impulses , and perhaps in all vital activities , some phenomenon akin to the " all or none law " with its refractory period , which makes for intermittence of response .
* ' Arch , fur Anat .
u. Physiol. , ' 1900 , p. 174 .

