On Boulders and Bock Specimens from Griqualand West .
475 " Additional Notes on Boulders and other Rock Specimens from the Newlands Diamond Mines , Griqualand West .
By LG .
Bonney , D.Sc .
, LL. 1 ) .
, F ILS .
, Professor of Geology , University College , London .
Received November 21 , \#151 ; Read December 13 , 1900 .
The invasion of Griqualand at the beginning of the vai with the Transvaal and Free State , put a stop , for a time , to working the Newlands Diamond Mines , some interesting specimens from which were brought to the notice of the Royal Society , on June 1st , in last year.* But shortly before the hurried departure of the employs , anothei small collection had been despatched to Mr. G. Irubenbach , the Managing Director in London , which he showed to me , early in the present year , most kindly placing the new specimens at my disposal for studv .
Some represented boulders , some the diamantiferous bieccia , popularly called " blue ground , ' in which these occur ; some the " country rock .
" The first , though ( so far as can be seen ) without diamonds , include at least four additional species of rock ; the second throw a little more light on the past history of the matrix .
Moreovei , they come from a new set of workings to the north-east of the former , where a shaft has been sunk , and galleries driven at a depth of about 465 feet .
Apparently two " pipes ' are connected by a narrow fissure filled with breccia.f So I have ventured to communicate the result of my investigations to the Royal Society , including with them a short note on a residue obtained by Sir William Crookes , F.R.S. , after dissolving avray almost the whole of a small fragment of the remarkable diamantiferous eclogite which was described in June , 1899 .
( 1 .
) The ( a. ) Of these one is rudely semi-oval in outline , measuring about inches in greatest length and breadth , and U inch thick , being probably a piece broken from an ellipsoidal pebble , ihe rock is holo-crystalline , composed chiefly of a pyroxene resembling bastite and of olivine , converted on the older-looking surfaces into a pale-gieen serpentinous material .
Examination of a thin slice shows the rock to consist mainly of olivine , which exhibits incipient serpeutinisation along cracks in the usual manner , and of a very pale brownish-green bastite , with one close cleavage ; and possibly one or twro small grains of a monoclinic pyroxene ; spinel , and even original iron oxide , being apparently absent .
Specific gravity , .'LOT4 .
* ' Roy .
So .
1'roc .
, ' vol. 65 , p. 223 .
f The precise depth at which the specimens were obtained cannot be given , as the labels became illegible in the hurried transit .
476 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On Bou and other ( / / .
) Another specimen , apparently about half of a fairly well-worn boulder , is not quite so large .
Under the microscope it is found to he practically identical in composition , but a little more serpent !
nised ; a clear isotropic mineral sometimes forming a border to the enstatite .
The presence of any original grains of iron oxide is doubtful , but one or two of augite can be recognised .
Both specimens , however , may be named Saxonites .
( c. ) Not very much worn , and rather triangular in shape , about 3 inches by 1 inch , and about ( Hi inch thick , consisting apparently of garnet , two pyroxenes and perhaps olivine .
Microscopic examination shows olivine , almost wholly converted into serpentine , enstatite partially changed to another ( the usual ) variety of the same mineral ; chrome diopside , a little colourless augite , with a diallagic habit , and pyrope ( two specimens ) .
As the last-named mineral is not abundant , the rock is more nearly related to the Lherzolites than to the Eulysitcs , and so may be named a granatiferous Lherzolite .
( d. ) A roundish flat slab about 3'5 x 2*5 x 06 inches , containing red garnets , enstatite , and a bright green pyroxene .
Microscopic examination shows olivine , partly converted into a dull yellowish-green serpentine , chrome diopside , some enstatite , now altered to a serpentine , the colour suggesting that it is chromiferous , and pyrope ( not abundant ) .
A little pale brown mica , probably secondary , occurs about the garnets and the diopside , in one case occupying a crack .
The rock belongs to the granatiferous peridotites , and though it contains less enstatite than the last one , may also be regarded as a variety of Lherzolite .
( / ' .
) The next specimen is evidently a fragment , the angles and edges of which have been slightly worn , as if by water .
It measures about 3| by 3 inches , and 1 ] inch in thickness .
The rock in the fresher part consists of pyrope , and two minerals of a dull-green colour , but about half of one surface is affected by decomposition , which has penetrated to a depth of about f inch .
Here one of the pyroxenic minerals appears to be a pale-coloured bastite with the usual metallic lustre ; the other of a brighter green tint .
Examination with the microscope shows the following minerals : -(1 ) Olivine in various stages of conversion into serpentine ; some grains being traversed as usual by very pale-green strings of the latter mineral , others completely changed into it , and of a yellowish or brownish colour ; minute dark-brown needles are sometimes present ( ?
rutile ) .
( 2 ) Bastite with a well-developed pinaeoidal cleavage ; sometimes partially or even wholly converted into a fibrous material , which with transmitted light is a rather rich green colour , the usual small brown negative crystals being developed in some grains .
( 3 ) A very pale sea-green augite , probably a chrome diopside .
( 4 ) Pyrope ; the grains having a kelyphite rim and showing incipient mineral change along the cracks .
from theNetdands Diamond Mines , Griqualand .
477 As one or two grains with a general resemblance to the bastite appear to give an oblique extinction , a third pyroxene may be present in very small quantities .
Mica is wanting as an original constituent , and most of the iron oxide is secondary , but one grain may be primary .
The structure of the rock is granular , no constituent being idio-morphic ; hence the order of consolidation cannot be determined with certainty , but I incline to placing the olivine , which is slightly the most abundant mineral , first , and the garnet , which is slightly the least so , last .
The rock is distinguished from ordinary Eulysite by the presence of a fair amount of an enstatite , but as this does not indicate any important difference in chemical composition , I prefer calling it Enstatite-Eulysite , to burdening petrology with a new name .
( / .
) This specimen has a rude resemblance to an oven bottom loaf , measuring full 16 inches in two directions at right angles on the curved surface ; the flat side being probably the result of a fracture , apparently produced after most of the rounding had been done .
The rock is holociystalline , its principal constituents being dull red garnets and green pyroxenes .
The former have their outer surface worn smooth and flat , the latter a very slightly corroded one .
The rock is macro-scopically identical with the eclogite described in the last paper , and it proves to be composed of pyrope and chrome diopside with occasionally a few fibres of secondary hornblende , no grain either of olivine or iron oxide occurring in the slice .
( \lt ; / .
) This specimen is a rudely trapezoidal block with rounded edges and corners , measuring about 24 inches each way , apparently rather water-worn , consisting of somewhat rounded crystals of greenish pyroxene , over an inch in length , in a matrix of a similar mineral and felspar .
Specific gravity , 3T25 .
On examination with the microscope , the larger grains prove to be generally diallage , a faint sea-green in colour , with a close pinacoidal cleavage , often made more distinct by the deposit of a little opacite or ferrite .
Small brown negative crystals are frequent , one of their longer edges lying parallel with an axis of elasticity .
This mineral is altered locally into a pleoehroic hornblende ( changing from a raw to a burnt umber tint ) .
The diallage is sometimes bordered by , and near its edges occasionally encloses , small grains of a slightly browner and more pleochroic mineral , extinguishing parallel with its principal cleavage , and thus representing a rhombic pyroxene , * but it also throws out root-like prolongations in which a cross ' cleavage is visible .
Where the diallage has been replaced by hornblende , the latter often extends some little distance into the roots , which in a few cases suggest the presence of the rhombic constituent .
These are embedded in felspar , thus affording a pegmatitic structure which varies in different parts of the slices from incipient to well * These locally are seen to pass into a yellowish serpentinous mineral , which with crossing nicols shows a fibrous structure and fairly bright polarisation tints .
478 Prof. T. Gr .
Boriney .
On Boulders and other Bod : Specimens developed ( see figure ) .
Some of the larger diallage crystals also show a curious structure with crossed nicols ; small lamellae of a different tint , arranged in a kind of network with lozenge-shaped meshes , making Pegmatitic association of a pyroxene and felspar ( composite ) , x 21 .
The " rootlets " and most of the mineral round the central grain is pyroxene .
Decomposition shown about a crack.* their appearance .
These possibly may indicate an early stage of the conversion of the diallage into hornblende .
The grains of felspar vary much in size , even when associated with the " rootlets " of pyroxene .
They are generally in good preservation ; exhibit twinning , usually on the albite type , and are shown by the extinction angles to be mostly if not wholly labradorite .
Small grains of iron oxide are present , which are most abundant near the margin of the larger pyroxenic grains .
They are sometimes scattered in the pegmatite , and in one or two cases are slightly root-like in shape .
Cracks traverse the rock and have led to mineral change .
They are often lined with small crystals of a brown mica , similar to that which occurs in some specimens of the " blue ground .
" These are imbedded in a rather earthy-looking granular material , which is , no doubt , a decomposition product from the felspar .
Pegmatitic structures , whether macroscopic or microscopic , are fairly common in granites , where the associated minerals are quartz and felspar , but , so far as my experience goes , are infrequent with other minerals .
* * I am indebted to my friend Mr. Coomara-Swamy for the microphotograph .
from theNewlands Diamond Griqualand West .
479 Professor Kosenbuseh however mentions the occurrence in some syenites ( including those with elseolite ) , in diorite ( very rare ) , and in a hyper-sthene gabhro ( or norite ) from Ekersund , on the west coast of Norway , and St. Paul 's Island , Labrador.* Thus we may be content to call this rock a pegmatitic hornblendic Gabbro .
( h. ) This perhaps represents a pebble rather than a boulder , for it is a fragment only about 1| x H x 1 inches , adhering to a piece of " blue ground , " the surface in contact with the latter being well rounded .
Macroscopically it appears to be a medium-grained diorite ; the microscope shows a holocrystalline granular structure ; the plagioclastic felspar is in fair preservation , and , perhaps , is labradorite ; the hornblende is rather strongly pleochroic , ranging from pale brownish-green to deep brown .
The mineral , however , is not original , but an alteration product from a pale green augite ( omphacite , ?
) .
Grains of iron oxide are also present .
Slight decomposition has taken place in a narrow zone from the surface inwards .
( i. ) The last specimen is a lump of irregular shape .
Presumably it is from the blue ground , but there is nothing to prove this .
In a compact dark brown to slightly purple ground-mass , a number of irregularly-formed greenish-grey patches are scattered so as to suggest flow brecciation .
These , when examined under the microscope , are a very light greyish-brown in colour , exhibiting flow structure , minute devitrification , and some decomposition .
The matrix is darker , sprinkled with opacite and ferrite , minutely devitrified , showing an irregular wavy structure , and occasionally ill-defined crystallites of plagioc-lase felspar .
The rock , now a felsite or porphyrite , was probably once either a sanidine trachyte or more probably an andesite , with flow brecciation .
This specimen possibly may not represent a boulder , b ut a dyke or flow associated with the " blue ground .
" ( 2 .
) Diamantiferous Matrix .
Specimens of the " blue ground " in which the boulders occurred were also sent .
As they came from another part of the mine , and the best preserved exhibited one or two slight differences , I have had a few slices prepared .
To the unaided eye the matrix is more of a purple-brown colour , slightly more compact and hard , but more brittle ; the fragments of magnesian minerals , however , seeming more completely serpentinised .
A few small , rather crumbling , rock fragments , * * ' Element der Gesteinslehre ' ( 1898 ) , p. 221 .
A case where the structure is more like that of the true graphic granite , from the dolerite of Pouk Hill , is described by Mr. Allport , ' Quart .
Journ. Geol .
So .
, ' vol. 30 , p. 549 , and figured by Mr. Teall , ' British Petrography , ' Pl .
XXIII , fig. 2 .
An instance of micrographic intergrowth of quartz and calcite is described by Mr. Coomara-Swamy in the aforenamed journal , vol. 56 , pp. 605 , 606 .
480 Prof. T. Gr .
Bonney .
On Bou and other Rock Specimens of a dull white colour , speckled with green , are present .
Microscopic examination shows that the larger minerals do not call for any special notice , except that a rudely crescentic pyrope has a kelyphite rim on the concave as well as on the convex side , proving the fracture to he an old one .
But the small plates of a brown mica , the occurrence of which has been already noticed , * are very abundant in the matrix .
These plates in some of the specimens are rather irregularly outlined , and rarely exceed 0-001 inch in diameter , but in others they average about double that size , and occasionally a few of them may even exceed 0'004 inch .
Then the outline is more rectangular , and the cleavage more distinct .
The smaller flakes often tend to form a zone around included rock fragments , and scattered granules of iron oxide seem more common in the slices containing the larger flakes.f I have now no doubt that the mineral is a secondary product .
The unusual abundance of a minute brown mica in the ground mass made an analysis desirable .
For that annexed I am indebted to Mr. C. .Tames , who has executed it in the laboratory at University College under the supervision of Professor W. Ramsay .
Silica ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
38-77 Alumina ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
14-62 Ferric oxide ... ... ... ... ... ... .
11 " 36 Calcium oxide ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
4-51 Magnesia ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 12*14 Potash ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
3-63 Soda ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1'90 Loss on heating CCL and IUO ... . .
13-55 99-48 ( The iron was all estimated as Fe,.03 ; one specimen gave a trace of nickel .
) .
If we compare this analysis with one given by Professor C. Lewis , + Si0-\gt ; = 33-00 , FeO ( including A1 , \gt ; 03 ) = 12-00 , MgO = 32-38 , CaO = 0-63 , Na,0 = 0-67 , ' CaCOs = 16-02 , H,0 = 6-0 ( total 101*71 ) , and with those of Kentucky " kimberlites " quoted by Rosenbusch , S and by Lewis , ( | we see them to be poorer in alumina and alkalies , but richer in magnesia .
Serpentine , in fact , forms the dominant silicate in them , a ferro-magnesian mica in this , the other mineral not amounting at most to a quarter of the whole rock .
But we must remember * 'Gfeol .
Mag. , '1897 , p. 431 .
f In all these specimens from Newlands opaque granules ( ?
llmeiute ) seem to take the place of the translucent brownish granules ( in part perofskite ) in the specimens from T)e Beers Mine .
x The Matrix of the Diamond , ' p. 47 .
S ' Element der Oesteinslehre , ' p. 165 .
|| The Matrix of the Diamond , ' p. 04 , \lt ; f. p. 61 .
from the Neiolands Diamond Mines , Griqualand West .
481 that some of the deeper-seated specimens from the De Beers Mine , though belonging to the typical mass of kimberlite , are hardly less rich in the secondary mica than this one from Newlands , so that from the chemical point of view , apart from other considerations , the propriety of classing " kimberlite " with the ( altered ) peridotites is worse than doubtful .
The rock fragments are often about 0'1 inch in diameter , though -pieces nearly half an inch across also occur , sub-angular to rounded in form .
The majority represent varieties of basalt , some apparently retaining traces of a glassy base , others rather minutely holocrystal-line .
They show signs of alteration , but nothing in their structure or composition calls for any detailed description .
It is difficult to determine the exact nature of the light-coloured fragments .
The green mineral is sometimes a granular augite , rather decomposed , sometimes an actinolite ; the lighter ( dominant ) part often effervesces briskly with HC1 , and ealcite is seen under the microscope , associated with a grey decomposition product , which often suggests the former presence of a felspar .
In one case a holocrystalline granular structure is clearly seen , and the replacing mineral has some resemblance to pseudophite .
Hence I consider these fragments to represent a plagioclase-augite rock allied to gabbro , and related to the boulder already described .
Its presence , and the comparative abundance of bits of basaltic rock , seem to be characteristic of the locality .
One specimen , however , calls for a little notice .
Part of it resembles a compact mudstone ; the rest , about an inch across , is rather decomposed blue ground ; the outer side of this suggesting that , as in the case of a specimen described last year , the " blue ground " may occupy a fissure in the " country rock .
" On microscppic examination , however , this proves to be doubtful .
The apparent outer surface is only a vein product , consisting of a fibrous mineral , possibly arragonite , associated with a little actinolite .
The seeming mudstone is more like a very decomposed igneous rock , probably a rather felspathic basalt .
The " blue ground " is also much decomposed , the mineral fragments being converted into a pale greenish-yellow fibrous material , much of which is actinolite .
A fragment of basalt ( not identical with the other ) appears to be altered for a depth of not quite one-tenth of an inch from the exterior , for in this part small distinct flakes of brown mica are scattered about .
The specific gravity of a specimen of " blue ground , " rather harder than the rest , was 2-667 ; two others , representing the most brittle variety , were weighed , but as each crumbled a little when immersed , the results are slightly too low .
One ( the better ) was 2*622 , the other 2-614 .
I tried the former a second time , but as it broke up more readily than before , abandoned the attempt .
I referred last year to a pyrope in which diamonds were embedded .
VOL. LXVII .
2 M 482 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On Bou and other Bode , Specimens Another specimen has now been found .
The pyrope apparently was rounded in form , about a | inch in diameter , and surrounded by a kelypliite rim .
It is broken across , thus disclosing the diamond , an octahedron , only one face of which is completely exposed .
This is slightly stepped , and measures roughly one-tenth of an inch along the edge .
A small piece of the usual purplish breccia adheres to the pyrope , so the case is exactly parallel to the former one .
In each the perfect form of the diamond shows that it crystallised before the garnet , and as the ordinary varieties of the latter mineral seem to be produced at a high temperature , * the association may be significant .
( 3 .
) The Country Bode .
A few specimens of this were also sent , but only two varieties pre sent any feature of interest .
One is a greenish conglomerate with calcareous matrix , and rounded pebbles up to about \ inch diameter ; the other has a pale-grey matrix , speckled with some small angular dark-green fragments and a few sub-angular pebbles up to about an inch in diameter ; one apparently a red felsite , the others diabase .
In the first specimen the microscope shows abundant sub-angular to rounded grains , mostly diabase , of which there are at least half a dozen varieties , a microgranite and two or three rocks more fragmental in aspect ; one perhaps a tuff , another apparently a quartzite , affected by pressure , and a third a sub-crystalline dolomite .
These are cemented by microgranular calcite , containing probably a lithe magnesia ( the crystals often forming a kind of border to the rock fragments ) , the interspaces being filled in with clear dolomite .
In this cement are embedded some angular bits of quartz , a fragment of altered felspar , and one or two , perhaps , chalcedony .
The other specimen shows a fine-grained muddy matrix , in which are scattered angular to sub-angular grains of quartz , with a little decomposed felspar , a little of a green mineral ( ?
replacing pyroxene ) , decomposed iron oxide , and perhaps some small rutiles , with rock fragments , generally rather rounded , representing compact diabase , or possibly sometimes andesite , and one or two of a sub-crystalline limestone .
Both these specimens , as Mr. Trubenbach informs me , represent a rock named " bastard blue " by the miners , and it has been pierced in both shafts , the diamantiferous breccia , or " blue ground , " apparently passing under it in the second shaft .
As , however , there is no real relationship between the two rocks , I regard the association as fortuitous .
* I do not forget the remarkable garnets from the Bastogne , described by Professor Renard ( ' Bull , du Musee Royal do Belgique , ' vol. 1 , p. 9 ) , or that called pyreneite ( also one of the andradite group ) , but both these minerals are very abnormal .
[ The genesis of the former is discussed by Miss C. A. Raisin , D.Sc .
, in a paper which will appear in the ' Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society ' for 1901 .
j from the NeivlandsDiamond M West .
483 ( 4 .
) Residue from the After the reading of my description of the " diamantiferous eclogite , " Sir W. Crookes kindly offered to examine that rock for microscopic diamonds .
Taking one of the fragments , weighing 130'5 grammes , which had keen detached in slicing the specimen , he treated it as follows :\#151 ; " After being very coarsely broken up , the material was put into a very strong sulphuric acid .
The acid was boiled for some time , and , after being allowed to cool , the residue was washed , dried , and then heated for some hours in strong hydrofluoric acid .
After it had been well washed and dried the treatment with hot sulphuric acid was repeated .
The mass , after a few alternations of these acids , became disintegrated , and all , except a few crystalline lumps , were dissolved .
After about ten treatments only a few small crystals remained , and these ( with the exception of a sample ) were reduced by a few more boilings with the acids to a single small one about half a millimetre in diameter .
" This was boiled fourteen times in each acid , and appeared to be slightly reduced in size .
" It sinks in methylene iodide , specific gravity 3'35 .
" This was sent to me with some of the small crystals just mentioned , all being mounted .
The solitary survivor of the whole treatment showed on one side curved crystal faces , but on the other appeared imperfect .
These faces , so far as I could judge , indicated an isometric or possibly a rhombohedral mineral .
Its refractive index is high , the colour a pale smoke-brown , and it apparently produced some effect on polarised light .
That , however , was not conclusive , for diamonds from Newlands , as at Kimberley , are often in such a state of strain as to be anisotropic .
Of the survivors of the first treatment , the more abundant were colourless , rough in outline , but possibly showing one cleavage surface , apparently at right angles to an optic-axis ; polarisation tints bright ; the refractive index high , but inferior to that of a diamond .
It appeared to me not improbably corundum .
The less abundant granules were more rounded in outline , with rather rough , possibly corroded , surfaces , translucent , of a resin-brown colour , apparently producing some effect on polarised light ; on the whole they seemed to bear some resemblance to rutile .
But to come to any conclusion about the first mineral it was necessary to detach it from the mount .
As I have no apparatus for very delicate work , that not coming within my usual line of study , I had recourse to Mr. L. Fletcher , the Keeper of Mineralogy , and Mr. L. , T. Spencer , also of that Department , at the British Museum .
The latter attempted to measure the supposed diamond with the goniometer ; the faces , however , were too curved for the purpose , but both of them regarded the edges as too sharp for the mineral to have suffered appreciably from the acid , as Sir W. Crookes was inclined to think .
They consider it to be really iso ])r .
W. T. Blanford .
of tropic , and a diamond * Mr. Spencer thinks that the colourless birefringent fragments are perhaps optically uniaxial , and that they may very well he corundum . !
The browner grains he suggests are also diamonds .
In favour of this identification is the fact that small diamonds occur at the Newlands Mine ( I have seen some in Mr. Tru-benbach 's hands ) , rather ovoid in shape , with a roughened surface , some a yellowish-brown , some colourless .
But against it we may urge that they appear to have been destroyed during the second treatment .
J Be this as it may , Sir W. Crookes has succeeded in showing that microscopic diamonds do occur in the eclogite , which contains those of larger size .
To conclude : in addition to this residue from the eclogite we have ascertained ( 1 ) the existence , in some quantity and variety , of pre-triassic diabase , S ( 2 ) the abundant development of a microscopic brown mica in the ground mass of the so-called kimberlite ; ( 3 ) the presence in it , as true boulders , of at least four more species of holocrystalline rock .
The last fact acquires an additional importance , because , since the publication of my former paper , the boulders therein described have been claimed as " concretions " in the so-called kimberlite.|| With this matter I have dealt elsewhere , H but the identification of seven species or strongly-marked varieties of holocrystalline rocks , periclotites , eclogites , \amp ; c. , in which the minerals at the surface are worn as if by the action of water , not to mention the general structure of the so-called kimberlite , must , I think , offer insuperable difficulties even to the most enthusiastic advocate of concretionary action .
The Distribution of Vertebrate Animals in India , Ceylon , and Burma .
" By W. T. Blanfokd , LL. D. , F.K.S. Deceived December 3 , \#151 ; Bead December 13 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) Several contributions on the subject of the distribution of Vertebrate , or geographical Zoology , in India and the neighbouring countries * On re-examining the specimen , now that Mr. Spencer has kindly mounted it m a better position , I agree with this determination .
+ On a final examination of the slides , I find among them one if not two small grains which I strongly suspect to be diamonds .
f .
t A final examination and comparison with some bits of " bort given me y Mr. Trubenbach has nor , made me more favourable to my original identification " TThat is , at any rate , older than the time when the Karoo series was deposited .
|| Professor Beck , ' Zeitschrift fur Praktische Geol .
, ' December , 1899 .
.H ' Geol .
Mag. , ' 1900 , p. 246 .

