On the Newtonian Constant of Gravitation .
June 7 , 1894 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Newtonian Constant of Gravitation .
" By C. V. BOYS , F.R.S. , A.R.S.M. , Assistant Professor of Physics , Royal College of Science , South Kensington .
Received May 31 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The Newtonian constant of gravitation G , the force in dynes between 2 grams of matter 1 cm .
apart , has been determined with a very accurately constructed piece of apparatus , designed on the lines which I laid down in my paper on the Cavendish experiment ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. ' , vol. 46 , p. 293 ) .
The important dimensions are approximately\#151 ; Distance between centres of lead balls in plan . .
6 in .
" " .
gold " . .
0*9 in .
Diameter of lead balls ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
in .
" gold " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
0-2 and 025 in .
Difference of level between right and left sides .
6 in .
The lead balls were hung by phosphor bronze wires from pillars m the lid of the apparatus , and the gold balls by qua , rtz fibres from the ends of the " beam mirror .
" The beam mirror was supported by a quartz fibre , 17 in .
from a torsion head .
An elaborate system of screens protected the apparatus from temperature variations .
An " optical compass " of extreme precision was employed in measuring the horizontal distances between the fibres and between the wires , which alone among the geometrical magnitudes need be known with a very high degree of precision .
The scale was 9 ft. long , divided into 50ths of an inch .
It was placed at a distance equal to 14,000 divisions .
It could be read with certainty to 1/ 10 division .
The deflections varied according to the circumstances of each experiment from 351 to 577 divisions , and the squares of the periods from 35,431 to 58,519 secs.2 K 2 132 Mr. S. Bidwell .
On Recurrent [ June 7 , The experiments were carried .
out by permission of Professor Clifton , under the Clarendon Laboratory , at Oxford .
The result is for G , the Newtonian constant of gravitation . . . .
6'657fi X 10"8 A , the mean density of the earth ... ... ... ... 5*5270 .
II .
" On the Recurrent Images following Visual Impressions .
" By Shelford Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. , F.R.S. Received March 27 , 1894 .
The earliest recorded observation which I have been able to find of a certain curious phenomenon associated with optical after-images is that of Professor C. A. Young , who published a note on the subject in the year 1872 , and proposed that the phenomena should be called " recurrent vision."* He noticed that when a powerful Leyden jar discharge took place in a darkened room , any conspicuous object was seen twice at least , with an interval of a little less than a quarter of a second ; often it was seen a third time and sometimes even a fourth .
He thought that the phenomenon suggested the idea of a reflection of the nervous impulse at the nerve extremities , as if the intense impression upon the retina , after being the first time propagated to the brain , was reflected back to the retina and thence again to the brain , thus renewing the sensation of vision .
A few months later an account of two experiments on the same subject was published by Mr. A. S. Davis.t In the first , a piece of charcoal , one end of which was red-hot , was waved about so as to describe an ellipse or circle a few inches in diameter .
A blue image of the burning end was seen following the charcoal at a short distance behind it , the space between the charcoal and its image being absolutely dark .
The interval of time after which the sensation of blue light succeeded the primary sensation was estimated to be about a fifth of a second .
The other experiment was made w'ith a piece of apparatus resembling a photographic instantaneous shutter .
The shutter was interposed between the observer 's eye and the sky and was covered with pieces of coloured glass , through which momentary flashes of light were allowTed to pass .
It was found that each flash was , after a short interval , generally succeeded by a recurrent image , the colour of which was quite different from that of the glass .
The results of Mr. Davis 's observations are summarised below .
Mr. Davis remarks that except as regards the red glass , the recurrent colour does not differ much from the complementary colour , * ' Phil. Mag ; vol. 43 ( 1872 ) , p. 343 .
f Ibid. , vol. 44 ( 1872 ) , p. 526 .

