Nature and Physiological Action of Black-damp .
249 January 24 , 1895 .
Sir JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. Horace , Lord Davey , a member of Her Majesty 's Most Honourable Privy Council , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; 1 .
" Notes of an Enquiry into the Nature and Physiological Action of Black-damp , as met with in Podmore Colliery , Staffordshire , and Lilleshall Colliery , Shropshire .
" By JOHN Haldane , M.A. , M.D. , Lecturer in Physiology , University of Oxford .
Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received December 6 , 1894 .
Black-damp , sometimes also called choke-damp , or " stythe , " is one of the gases frequently found in the workings of coal mines .
It is distinguished from fire-damp by the fact that it is not explosive when mixed with air , but extinguishes flame ; and from after-damp by the fact that it is not the product of an explosion , but collects in the workings under ordinary conditions .
Like after-damp and firedamp , it produces fatal effects when inhaled in sufficient concentration .
A further distinction has been drawn between black-damp and white-damp , which latter is described as capable of supporting combustion , while at the same time acting as a poison when inhaled .
Black-damp usually occurs in old workings and other ill-ventilated parts of coal mines .
It is much more common in some districts than in others .
As to its composition , very little seems to have been hitherto ascertained , and I have not been able to discover any published analysis .
The prevailing opinion , however , is that it consists of carbonic acid , and that its suffocative properties are due to this gas.* fhis opinion appears to be chiefly based on the observation than black-damp frequently lies along the floors of workings with fresh air above it , and must therefore be , like carbonic acid , heavier than air .
See , for instance , minutes of evidence before the " Royal Commission on Accidents in Mines , " Nos. 46 , 768 , 6930 , 11702-3 , 11707-14 .
VOL. LVI1 .
^ Dr. J. Haldane .
-An Enquiry into the [ Jan. 24 In a paper read before the British Association in August of the present year* I expressed the opinion that black-damp ig chiefly nitrogen , and does not contain more than from 10 to 20 per cent. 0f carbonic acid .
One of the grounds for this opinion was the fact that the symptoms and the action on lamps described as produced by diluted black-damp do not correspond with those produced by mixtures of carbonic acid with air .
Throughthekind co-operation of Mr. W. 1ST .
Atkinson , H.M. Inspector of Coal Mines , I have lately had the opportunity of making observa-tions on concentrated black-damp from two pits , the first being iQ a fiery and the second in a non-fiery district .
These two pits were selected by Mr. Atkinson as affording characteristic specimens of black-damp .
In each case the gas was obtained from unused wort , ings through an iron pipe inserted through a stopping .
On turning the tap with which the pipe was provided , the black-damp issued in an abundant stream .
Specimens were collected in the following manner :\#151 ; A short piece of rubber tubing was attached to the tap by means of a cork perforated by glass tubing .
The other end of the rubber tubing was attached to another doubly-tubulated cork , which was fitted into a small glass bottle .
The second tube of this cork was connected by rubber tubing with a small syringe , provided with valves arranged for aspirating through the bottle .
With the help of the syringe , the bottle was washed out with about twenty times its volume of gas from the tap , and then , while held mouth upwards , at once closed perfectly air-tight by forcing into it a cork which had been previously boiled in somewhat soft paraffin wax .
I adopted this method owing to the impossibility of using naked lights in a fiery mine for the purpose of sealing up specimens of gas in glass tubes .
Podmore Colliery , Staffordshire .
An ordinary locked safety-lamp held under the tap was at once extinguished when the black-damp was allowed to issue , as was a Clowes hydrogen lamp .
Two other safety-lamps , which had been put down or hung up a few yards away , were also extinguished while the specimens were being collected .
I was provided with one of the small electric hand-lamps made by the Lithanode Company , which afforded an excellent light , so that the loss of the oil lights caused no inconvenience .
After the specimens had been collected , the tap was arranged so as to enable me to inhale the black-damp as it issued , without dilution .
I inspired from the tap and expired through the nostrils .
The sensation produced at the back of the mouth was identical with that produced by air containing 8 or 10 pel * An abstract o\#163 ; the paper appeared in the " Times " of August 18 , 1894 .
1895 .
] Nature and Physiological Action of Black-damp .
251 cent , of carbonic acid .
There was no smell of sulphuretted hydrogen or any other gas .
Two or three inspirations were sufficient to produce marked increase in the depth and frequency of the respirations .
The hyperpnoea rapidly became more intense and was accompanied by palpitations .
At the same time I was observed to become blue in the face .
Within about thirty Seconds I felt that I was becoming confused , and did not push the observations further .
Two or three seconds after I had ceased to breathe from the pipe the blueness was seen suddenly to disappear from my face and lips , and to be replaced by the natural colour .
The feelings which I experienced after the first fifteen or twenty seconds in breathing the black-damp were distinctly such as are produced by breathing air very poor in oxygen .
Prom previous experiments I had become familiar with the distinction between the feelings produced by excess of carbonic acid and those due to deficiency of oxygen .
The experiment of breathing the black-damp was repeated twice in order to leave no doubt .
An analysis of the black-damp gave the following result:\#151 ; Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... .
82*56 Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1*45 Carbonic acid ... ... ... ... 10*64* Methane ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5*35 Total ... ... ... ... 100*00 I tested part of the mixture for carbonic oxide by shaking with a little very dilute blood .
Neither with the spectroscope nor by the change of tint could I discover any evidence of the presence of carbonic oxide .
The test employed would have detected 0*05 per cent. The oxygen was determined by absorption with alkaline pyro-gallate solution of the composition recommended by Hempel .
The methane was determined by explosion in a Hempel 's explosion pipette , after the addition of oxygen and detonating gas .
All the measurements were made over mercury .
The gas-burette was a modification of that of Petterson .
The calculated specific gravity of this mixture is 1*0106 , or very nearly that of air .
The extra nitrogen and the methane are both considerably lighter than the oxygen which they replace , and thus counterbalance the effect on the specific gravity of the heavier carbonic acid .
( 10*64)8CCOn^ determination of the carbonic acid gave exactly the same result T 2 252 Dr. J. Haldane .
An Enquiry into the [ Jan. 24 Lilleshall Colliery , Shropshire .
The part of the heading nearest the pipe had , at Mr. Atkinson 's request , been bratticed ( curtained ) off , so that a chamber was pro .
vided in which the black-damp could be allowed giadually to accn-mulate .
' The heading was about ft. high .
As the mine is not a fiery one , it was possible to use naked lights .
The gas from the pipe at once extinguished a candle .
On breathing the gas I found that my respirations rapidly became deeper and more frequent , so that after a short time I was panting violently .
The panting , however , did not increase beyond a certain point , and was not distinctly accompanied by the peculiar feelings characteristic of distress from want of oxygen .
After breathing the black-damp for two minutes it seemed to me that the distress was , if anything , diminishing , and that I might have continued to breathe from the pipe for a considerable time without injury .
The panting was accompanied by blueness of the face , which did not , however , seem to Mr. Atkinson to be so marked as it was at the Podmore Pit , although the change of colour when I ceased to breathe from the pipe was quite distinct .
A similar result was obtained when the gas was breathed by Mr. Richard Warren , who had accompanied me .
The effect of the black-damp on a mouse was then observed .
The animal was placed in a piece of wide glass tubing , over one end of which gauze had been tied .
The end of this tubing was then luted with clay to the opening of the pipe ( which was directed upwards ) , and the gas allowed to pass through the gauze , on which the animal sat. It at once began to pant violently , but did not lose power over its limbs , or seem to become otherwise seriously affected , although exposed to the black-damp for eleven minutes .
The panting did not increase after the first few seconds , and ceased at once when the animal was taken out .
It was in no way injured by the experiment .
With Mr. Warren 's help a graphic record was then taken , by meaus of a Marey 's recording stethograph , of the effect of the black-damp on my respirations .
The tracing obtained is reproduced below .
An interval of two or three seconds ( while the pen was being shifted ) elapsed between the end of the upper tracing and the beginning 0 1895 .
] Nature and Physiological Action of Black-damp .
253 the lower .
The time-marker indicates seconds .
It will be seen that the action of the black-damp became apparent after two inspirations and attained its maximum after twenty inspirations , or one minute , and that subsequently the hyperpnoea gradually became somewhat less marked .
After this observation the tap was turned full on and the brattice closed , two of the party remaining outside in case of any accident .
A sample of air* taken at the moment when the last light ( a candle fixed horizontally ) was extinguished , had the following composiOxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
17'05 Carbonic acid ... ... ... .
2*62 Nitrogen , ... ... ... ... . .
80*33 Total ... ... ... . .
100-00 or as compared with air.f Diminution in oxygen percentage ... ... .
3'85 Increase in carbonic acid percentage ... 2*59 " nitrogen " ... . .
1*26 This composition corresponds to what would have been expected from previous observations .
Thus , in experiments by Dr. Lorrain Smith and myself on air vitiated by respiration , ^ ; a match could no longer be lighted when the air contained about 17*7 per cent , of oxygen and 2'5 per cent , of carbonic acid , or 17'4 per cent , of oxygen and 0*4 per cent , of carbonic acid .
About half an hour later , Mr. Warren 's breathing had become somewhat deeper than usual , though my own was not distinctly affected .
A sample of air taken at this point had the following comsition:\#151 ; Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 15'30 Carbonic acid ... ... ... ... . .
3*38 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... . .
81*32 Total ... ... ... ... 100*00 or as compared with air\#151 ; Diminution in oxygen percentage ... ... ... 5*60 Increase in carbonic acid percentage ... . .
3*35 " nitrogen " ... ... 2*25 * The sample was taken close to , and at the level of , the candle , about midway between the floor and the roof .
An upright candle and a safety lamp had already gone out .
T With the same gas-burette , used under the same conditions , pure air gave 20-90 per cent , of oxygen .
| + ' Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology , ' 1892 .
Dr. J. Haldane .
An Enquiry into the [ Jan ^ Neither of ns could detect any loss of power , headache , or any other abnormality , nor did we experience any trace of after-effect on coming out of the mine .
We did not continue these observations further , as the vitiation was now evidently proceeding very slowly , owing to the slight ventilation through the brattice cloth .
" Whet !
this was lifted , the lights of the party outside were suddenly extinguished , so that the electric light alone remained ; and for some time it was impossible to re-light a candle .
The gas from the pipe had the following composition :\#151 ; Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... .
9*60 Carbonic acid ... ... ... ... ... 7*32 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... . .
83*08 Total ... ... ... .
100*00 or as compared with air\#151 ; Diminution in oxygen percentage ... ... 11*30 Increase in carbonic acid percentage ... 7*29 " nitrogen " ... . .
4*01 I could detect no trace of carbonic oxide , or of any gas yielding carbonic acid on exploding the mixture , previously freed from carbonic acid , with detonating gas .
The calculated specific gravity of this mixture is 1*0258 .
A direct determination was also made .
A dry flask was filled directly from the pipe , through drying tubes containing pumice and sulphuric acid .
The weight of the contained mixture at atmospheric pressure and temperature was determined as against the weight of the same volume of dry air at the same pressure and temperature .
A similar flask was used as a counterpoise in both weighings .
The specific gravity as found was 1*0252 .
If we regard methane and air as accidental admixtures , and calculate the air from the oxygen , the composition of the two specimens of black-damp was as follows :\#151 ; No. 1 .
Methane ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
5*35 f oxygen ... ... ... ... ... . .
1*45 Air\lt ; nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... 5*49 Lcarbonic acid .
... ... . .
0*00 Blaok-damp(nit\#153 ; \#171 ; e.n--:'-- 77''7 ^ l carbonic acid . .
10*64 No. 2 .
0*00 9*60 36*33 0*01 46*75 7*31 Total 100*00 100*00 1895 j Nature and Physiological Action of BlacTc^darn/ p. 255 The undiluted black-damp had thus the following composition and specific gravity : No. 1 .
No. 2 .
Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... .
87*87 86*48 Carbonic acid ... ... ... .
12*13 13*52 Total ... ... ... . .
100*00 100*00 Specific gravity ... ... ... 1 0390 1 0468 This composition supports the view that black-damp is the residual gas left on slow oxidation of the carbon and hydrogen of coal by air .
Supposing that the black-damp were produced by the oxidation of the carbon and hydrogen which would , under other conditions , be given off as methane , it would consist of 88*30 per cent , of nitrogen and 11*70 per cent , of carbonic acid .
This composition very closely approximates to that actually found in the first specimen .
The second specimen shows a larger proportion of carbonic acid , and corresponds to the oxidation of material containing about 3 atoms of hydrogen to one of carbon .
It must be borne in mind , however , that the coal may itself supply part of the oxygen required for the formation of carbonic acid and water in the oxidation process .
The physiological action of black-damp such as that examined is due partly to its deficiency in oxygen , and partly to its carbonic acid .
When mixed in increasing proportions with air , its action , as shown above , first becomes sensible when the oxygen is diminished to about 15 per cent , and the carbonic acid increased to about 3*5 per cent. From the observations previously made by Hermans , and by Lorrain Smith and myself , * it follows that the hyperpncea which began to be produced at this point was due to excess of carbonic acid , and not to deficiency of oxygen .
Until the carbonic acid is increased to about 7 per cent , the same inference holds good ; the effect on the respiration is almost the same as that of air or oxygen containing 7 per cent , of carbonic acid ; and the breathing of such air for some time is attended with no immediate risks to normal persons .
When , however , the air is still further vitiated the deficiency in oxygen begins to tell dangerously ; and when the oxygen is reduced to about 7 per cent , there is imminent risk of loss of sensation and power over the limbs .
The danger-point from deficiency of oxygen ( about 7 per ceut .
) is sooner reached in the case of a mixture of black-damp and air than the danger-point from excess of carbonic acid .
The presence of the carbonic acid in black-damp would seem in reality to diminish the risk , since , by causing panting , it gives some warning of the * " The physiological effects of Air vitiated by Respiration , " ' Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology , ' Oct. , 1892 .
256 Nature and Physiological Action of Black-damp .
[ Jan. 24 impending real danger from deficiency of oxygen .
Were there n0 carbonic acid in black-damp the danger would approach much more insidiously , as hyperpnosa , \amp ; c. , are not caused by deficiency of oxygen until real danger is imminent .
Were black-damp ever carbonic acid or chiefly carbonic acid , as commonly supposed , the breathing -would with increasing proportions certainly be markedly affected lou\lt ; \gt ; before the point at which lights are extinguished.* I have not been able to obtain any account of gas met with in coal mines and possessing the property of causing marked panting while at the same time supporting a light .
Panting is not mentioned as one of the symptoms produced by white-damp , nor has white-damp a high specific gravity .
Summary of Conclusions .
1 .
The specimens of black-damp consisted when undiluted of nitrogen containing an admixture of a seventh to an eighth of its volume of carbonic acid .
2 .
Air containing just sufficient black-damp to extinguish a caudle or oil lamp produced no immediately sensible action on a man .
A mixture of about 16 per cent , of the black-damp and 84 per cent , of air extinguished candles and lamps , whereas a mixture of about 60 per cent , of the black damp and 40 per cent , of air would be required to produce immediate danger to life .
3 .
The dangerous physiological action of black-damp is due to deficiency of oxygen , not to excess of carbonic acid .
The effect first appreciable when increasing proportions of black-damp are breathed is , however , due to carbonic acid alone .
In conclusion , I beg to express my hearty thanks to Mr. W. N , Atkinson for his co-operation in this investigation , and to the managers of the Podmore and Lilleshall Collieries for their courtesy in doing everything possible to facilitate the work .
Note .
Added January 7 , 1895 .
Since writing the above I have examined a specimen of black-damp from an ironstone pit ( communicating with a seam of coal ) at Apedale .
A double analysis of the sample gave the following results:\#151 ; No. 1 .
No. 2 .
Oxygen 10*07 10*09 Carbonic acid . .
, 7*64 7*60 Nitrogen 82*29 82*31 Total . .
100*00 ; ioo*oo * An experiment demonstrating this fact is described by Dr. Dorrain Smith ant^ myself .
JLoc .
cit. 1895-3 Mathematical Contributions to Theory of Evolution .
257 Calculated as above the composition of the undiluted black-damp was thus:\#151 ; Nitrogen. . .
... ... ... . .
85'30 Carbonic acid ... ... ... . .
14-70 This result differs little from that given by the other samples .
II .
" Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
II .
Skew Variation in Homogeneous Material .
" By Karl Pearson , University College , London .
Communicated by Professor Henrici , F.R.S. Received December 19 , 1894 , ( Abstract .
) Part I.\#151 ; Theoretical .
In the deduction of the normal curve of frequency from the symmetrical point binomial , three conditions are usually assumed to be true:\#151 ; ( a. ) The chances of any " contributory cause ** giving its unit of deviation in excess or in defect are presumed to be equal .
( 6 .
) The number of " contributory causes " are supposed to be indefinitely great .
( c. ) The " contributory causes " are all supposed to be independent .
( c ) amounts to the assumption of a binomial form ( p + q)n , ( ) to the equality of p and q , ( c ) to the indefinitely great value of n. It is shown in the paper that there is an important geometrical relation between the normal frequency curve z \#151 ; z0e~x*l2 , T* , and the symmetrical point binomial , ( -g # 2 ) " , which is true independently of the magnitude of n. Thus the condition ( 6 ) is not necessary to the very close fitting of symmetrical point binomials to normal curves for even very small values of \#171 ; , such , for example , as 8 or 10 .
This has been long recognised in statistical practice if its source has not been noted .
We can remove the condition ( a ) from our a priori limitations by nding a curve which is related to the skew binomial ( p4*3f ) " in pre-cisely the same manner as the normal curve is related to the .
symmetrical binomial + The equation to this curve is

