On Platina and native Palladium from Brazil .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read March 22 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 189 .
] Until a portion of platina was lately discovered by M. Vauquelin , in some silver ores from Estremadura , the whole of the platina known in Europe was derived from the Spanish possessions in South America , and had very uniformly the same appearance , differing solely in the magnitude of the grains .
A third variety having lately been received from Brazil , the author thought it deserved particular examination , although the quantity which he could obtain was too small for accurate analysis .
The appearance of this mineral is whiter than Peruvian platina ; the grains are rougher and more angular , being evidently fragments of larger masses , very little worn at their surfaces .
When examined by solution and precipitation , the greatest part of the grains appeared to be platina nearly pure , as they are free from iron , which forms a considerable part of the Peruvian ore ; and apparently free from the several metals , which have within these few years been discovered in that mineral ; but they contain , on the contrary , a small quantity of gold , which is not contained in the grains of Peruvian platina .
The author discovered also , among the grains of native platina , a few fragments of native palladium , which he describes as resembling , in the whiteness of their colour , the grains of platina , but differing from them in presenting an appearance of fibres diverging from one extremity .
These grains are readily detected by their solubility , and by the red colour of the solution : that they consisted of palladium , was proved by precipitation with prussiate of mercury , or green sulphate of iron , as well as by their fusibility by assistance of sulphur .
It is remarked , however , that these grains are not absolutely pure , but contain a very small quantity of platina , which , by its redness when precipitated , seems to be contaminated by iridium .

