234 Mr. J. N. Langley .
Variations of [ Nov. 19 , be seen ; for at any rate a plastoid is not present .
A somewhat casual examination was also made of many organs of movement , but in them no plastoid was observed .
In Drosera rotundifolia and other species plastoids occur which resemble those of Drosera , Strong single induction shocks or tetanising currents cause the plastoid to assume the spherical condition , or very frequently to .
break up into a string of small spheres .
A sudden blow on the cover slip also causes the assumption of the ' spherical form .
Moderately strong tetanising shocks cause swelling of the protoplasm , and increase of rapidity of movement and granularity. .
Very strong shocks may cause the contraction of the primordial utricle from the cell-wall at- certain small areas , but immediate death , always ensues , since the stimulus required is abnormally great. .
The normal effect of a regulated stimulus is to induce a swelling of the protoplasm , and a loss of turgidity , and in consequence of the unequal reaction of the various cells to- such a stimulus , movement of the tentacle also occurs .
[ Note.\#151 ; I have decided to name the-body which I have provisionally spoken of as the plhstoid " the rabdoid " ( Gk .
rabdos , a stick or wand ) .
The change in form of the rabdoid appears to be- a consequence of the molecular changes in the protoplasm , differences of turgidity are among the results of these changes.\#151 ; Nov. .
28 , 1885 .
] VI .
" On Variations in the Amount and Distribution , of Fat in the Liver-Cells of the Frog .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A. , F.R.S. , Lecturer on Histology in the University of Cambridge .
Received September 23 , 1.885 .
I have in a previous paper* mentioned some of the changes which occur in certain circumstances in .
the number and arrangement of the fat-globules in the liver-cells of the frog .
Erom .
observations made since that time at different seasons of the year , I have been able to ascertain certain points undetermined in the previous account .
Variations in the Amount and Distribution of Fat with the time of Year.\#151 ; The fat in the liver-cells is at its maximum amount in February and March .
In January it is , , as a rule , somewhat less .
In April it rapidly decreases ; from May until December it is present in comparatively small though varying amount .
It is usually present in minimum amount in September and October .
Generally speaking , the fat-globules form an inner zone in frogs which have hungered more than a week .
In January , February , and March , however , the fat-globules are commonly more numerous in the outer part of the cells , often forming a distinct outer zone .
* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 34 , p. 20 , lgg5 .
] Fat in the Liver-Cells of the Frog .
Sometimes the globules stretch throughout the cells .
In December , the fat-globules may be more numerous in the outer part of the cells , but more commonly they are absent from the outer cell-region and form an inner zone .
At other times of the year also , the fat-globules may be present in the outer portion of the cells , but this is comparatively rare .
From April to November , including those months , the globules may be very few and small .
In December this is , so far as I have observed , very rare .
In January , February , and March , I have always found fat-globules to be present in considerable number .
j Effect of Temperature.\#151 ; In December , when the fat in the liver is increasing in amount , cold increases the amount of fat stored up , and warmth decreases it .
The increase of fdt , consequent on a decrease of temperature , occurs chiefly in the outer part of the cells .
The fat-globules which are formed are fairly large .
The decrease of fat , consequent on increase of temperature , occurs chiefly or wholly at the outer part of the cells ; as a rule , the number of globules in the inner part of the cells is increased .
The decrease in the amount of fat , whilst due in part to a decrease in the number of fat-globules , is due to a still greater degree to their decrease in size .
Although warmth lessens the amount of fat in the liver in winter-frogs , it does not cause the fat to disappear entirely .
The effect varies ; in some frogs which have been kept seven to ten days at 22 ' C. , the liver may still have considerably more fat than is ordinarily present in the liver in summer-frogs .
In summer-frogs , in which the fat-globiiles form an inner zone , and are nearly or entirely absent from the outer cell-region , neither warmth nor cold affects to any great degree the number or position of the fat-globules .
They usually diminish somewhat in number and size with increase of temperature , but this is not necessarily the case .
Variations of temperature have then much greater effect on the amount of fat in the liver in winter than in summer , i.e. , whilst in winter the ratio of fat formed to fat metabolised is greater in the cold than in the warm , in summer this is not necessarily the case .
Although summer-frogs have sometimes very little fat in the liver , it is doubtful whether the smallness of the amount is due either to the warmth of summer or to hunger , for we have seen that warmth does not necessarily cause a disappearance of fat from the liver ; and frogs after long hunger have not infrequently a fair amount of liver-fat left .
Hence the ratio of fat formed to fat metabolised , depends in part upon certain unknown conditions of the body , independent of temperature or of food .
236 Mr. J. N. Langley .
Variations of [ Nov. 19 , Effect of Digestion.\#151 ; When frogs are fed , e.g. , with worms , the fat in the liver at first decreases , after some hours it begins to increase and becomes greater than at the beginning of digestion ; towards the end of digestion it decreases again in amount , so that in one or two days the amount is normal .
Whilst the fat is decreasing in amount , the globules usually decrease in size ; whilst the fat is increasing in amount , the globules usually increase in size , and are found in the outer region of the cells .
Later , as the fat returns to normal , the globules form more and more an inner zone .
The extent of the changes just mentioned as occurring during digestion , as well as the period of digestion at which they occur , varies very considerably at different times of the year , and in different frogs .
Winter-frogs which have before digestion much fat in the liver , show a decrease and subsequent increase of fat during digestion , but the increase is commonly not more than sufficient to bring the fat up to the amount present before food was given .
In some cases in summer-frogs , especially in September and October , the effect of feeding is very slight .
There are also certain differences in the distribution of the fat-globules in different frogs , in the several stages of digestion .
Usually when there are many fat-globules present in the outer part of the cells before digestion , they increase in number during the first stage of digestion in the inner part of the cells ; but this is not always the case , whilst disappearing from all parts of the cell , they may disappear much more rapidly from the inner than from the outer cell-region .
Further , when fat-globules are present in the inner zone only , it may happen that , although they increase somewhat in number in the cells in the later stages of digestion , they do not accumulate in the outer cell-region , but are sparsely scattered in the outer cell-region , and are more numerous in the inner cell-region .
Probably these differences are to be accounted for in the following way .
We have seen that when fat is present in considerable amount , it is present almost without exception in greater quantity in the outer than in the inner part of the cells , and that in most cases , as it is increasing in amount , whether from decrease of temperature , or from digestion , it increases in the outer part of the cells , frequently being found close to the basement membrane .
Hence we may conclude , that fat is formed more rapidly in the outer than in the inner part of the liver-cells .
We have seen that when winter frogs are kept in the warm , it is in the outer portion of the cells that the fat chiefly disappears , and that in summer-frogs , fat is rarely found except in the inner cell-region .
Hence probably the metabolism as well as the formation of fat is more rapid in the outer than in the inner cell-region .
18S5- ] jF*a\#163 ; in the Liver-Cells of the Frog .
237 Further we have seen that in winter-frogs kept in the warm , and in fed winter-frogs , there is commonly an increase in the number of fat-globules in the inner zone although the total amount of fat is much diminished .
Hence probably there is in certain circumstances a transference of fat-globules from the outer to the inner part of the cells .
The amount of fat present in the liver of course depends upon the relative rates of formation and metabolism of fat , and as this varies in different circumstances , so probably the rate of transference of fat from the outer to the inner cell-region varies in different circumstances .
To this the differences spoken of above are probably due .
In summer frogs for example , whilst in the later stages of digestion fat is formed more rapidly in ' the outer'cell-region , an accumulation of fat in this region may not take place , partly on account of the more rapid metabolism of the fat formed , and ' partly on account of its more rapid transference to the inner cell-region .
Some of the fat-globules in the inner zone are no doubt passed out of the cell with the bile secreted , for some small fat-globules are always present in the bile .
One other conclusion we may draw with regard to the fat-globules : since they diminish in size under the influence of warmth , and in the first stage of digestion , it is probable that each separate fat-globule is slowly metabolised in the same way that mesostate granules in secretory glands are metabolised .
The granules of the salivary glands , of the gastric glands , of the pancreas , are not dissolved as a whole during secretion , they are dissolved steadily and gradually .
The Effect of Peptone and of Dextrin.\#151 ; From June to August , peptone or dextrin , when injected into the dorsal lymph-sac of a frog , produces changes like those produced by feeding ; there is at first a decrease in the amount of fat in the liver , then an increase chiefly in the outer part of the cells , and this is succeeded by a decrease to the normal state , during which the fat-globules become shifted from the outer to the inner cell-region .
The increase of fat is usually greater with dextrin than with peptone .
As a rule the increase in the amount of fat takes place three to four hours after peptone has been injected ; in twenty to thirty hours after the injection , the fat-globules are present , as at starting , in the inner cell-region only .
The times at which the various changes take place vary , however , in different frogs .
If frogs are kept in the warm and peptone is injected , the effect on the fat in the liver is much less than when the frogs are at the ordinary temperatures .
In September the effect of peptone appears to be less than from June to August .
In the winter months I have not made a sufficient number of experiments to be certain what changes peptone and dextrin then produce .
Sew all has pointed out that peptone injected into the dorsal sac of a frog , causes , in one to two hours , the stomach to be distended with List of Officers and Council .
[ Nov. 26 , fluid of a neutral or slightly acid reaction .
This distension of the stomach occurs in most but not in all cases .
The fluid is , I find , usually alkaline , sometimes both the mucous fluid in the stomach and the stomach-wall itself are strongly alkaline .
The fluid contains a small amount of pepsin .
Dextrin produces a similar but less distension of the stomach , the mucous fluid in this case is usually acid .
I may mention that digestion in the frog is delayed very greatly by peptone , and slightly by dextrin .
The stimulus set up by the fluid in the stomach may have something to do with the changes in the liver which follow injection of peptone or of dextrin .
But since the changes in the liver occur in the cases in which the injection causes little or no formation of fluid in the stomach , I attribute them in the main to the direct action of the substance injected .
This I am the more inclined to do since I find that both peptone and dextrin cause in a few hours an accumulation of glycogen* in the liver in summer-frogs .
November 26 , 1885 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice was given from the Chair of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the list of Officers and Council nominated for election , was read as follows:\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Professor George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; John Evans , D.C.L. , LL. D. Secretaries.\#151 ; { Professor Michael Foster , M.A. , M.D. The Lord Rayleigh , M.A. , D.C.L. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Professor Alexander William Williamson , LL. D. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Professor Robert B. Clifton , M.A. , Professor James Dewar , M.A. ; Professor William -Henry Flower , LL. D. ; Archibald Geikie , LL. D. ; Sir Joseph D. Hooker , K.C.S.I. ; Professor Thomas Henry Huxley , D.C.L. , LL. D. ; Admiral Sir A. Cooper Key , G.C.B. ; J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.A.S. ; Professor Henry N. Moseley , M.A. ; Professor Bartholomew Price , M.A. ; Reverend Professor Pritchard , D.D. , F.R.A.S. ; William James Russell , Ph. D. ; Professor J. S. Burdon Sanderson , LL. D. ; Professor * Seegen has shown that peptone increases the amount of sugar in the liver .

