1889 .
] 77/ 0 Innervation of the Pulmonary Vessels .
III .
41 The Innervation of the Pulmonary Vessels .
" By J. Rose Bradford , M.B. , D.Se .
, George Henry Lewes Student , and H. Percy Dean , M.B. , B.S. , B.Se .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. ( from the Physiological Laboratory of University College , London ) .
Received February 13 , 1889 .
Although hitherto most physiologists have considered that the pulmonary vessels probably possessed a system of vaso-motor nerves , yet no direct experimental proof of the existence of such a system has been obtained .
Still less has any evidence been adduced to demonstrate the actual anatomical paths by which such nerves , if they exist , reach the lungs .
Hence it seemed that the whole question was one deserving a further attempt for its solution .
When this research was commenced , there were practically only two facts which could be appealed to in support of the existence of these nerves .
Firstly , Lichtheim observed that in asphyxia a rise of blood-pressure may occur in the pulmonary artery unaccompanied by any rise in the aorta .
Secondly , it has been shown that in the frog , irritation of the skin causes a contraction of the pulmonary vessels .
It is clear that this second fact could not be used as an argument in support of the existence of these nerves in the mammal , since the anatomical relations are so different in the two cases .
With , regard to Lichtheim 's observation , it is evident that it affords no very direct proof , since other conditions , such as venous distension , might easily account for the rise of pulmonary pressure .
It was felt by us that the only really reliable method would be to excite one by one the roots of the spinal nerves , and to observe the effects of such stimulation on the aortic and pulmonary blood-I Pressures simultaneously .
The following method was employedA cannula , placed in the carotid artery in the usual manner , was connected with a mercurial manometer .
In a similar manner a second mercurial manometer wras then connected with the branch of the left division of the pulmonary 1 artcry distributed to the lower lobe of the left lung .
This vessel was 1 cached from the back by resecting portions of two or sometimes j three ribs .
In this way a record of the pressure in the left division 1 the main artery was obtained , and also a means of detecting j c^knges of pressure in the main artery .
At the same time , the minimum amount of lung tissue was thrown out of gear .
e upper dorsal nerves were then exposed inside the spinal canal , I were ligatured outside the dura m^ter .
By cutting through the Dr. J. R. Bradford and Mr. H. P. Dean .
|~Feb .
21 nerves between the spinal cord and the ligature , the peripheral ends could be easily arranged for excitation .
In this way the fibres of both anterior and posterior roots are excited , but , as previously shown by one of us , no efferent vaso-naotor fibres can be demonstrated to exist in the posterior roots .
Hence for our purposes this mode of excitation is practically equivalent to exciting the anterior roots alone , and inasmuch as a comparatively long stretch of tough nerve can be obtained , the danger of the exciting current spreading to the spinal cord , and so producing reflex effects , is avoided .
The nerves were excited on the right side , on the same side as the uninjured lung .
The two blood-pressure curves were recorded simultaneously on the same blackened surface , together with a time tracing and a lever marking the duration of the excitation .
The anaesthetics used were chloroform and morphia , and after the nerves had been prepared , a small dose of curare was injected , and artificial respiration maintained before opening the chest to insert the pulmonary cannula .
Before describing the results following excitation of the upper dorsal nerve roots , it will be necessary to describe shortly the relations existing between the systemic and pulmonary blood-pressures , and more especially what effects are produced on the pressure in the pulmonary artery by sudden alterations of the blood-pressure in the systemic vessels .
It is necessary to do this , as otherwise in many cases it might be urged that the effects of a given nerve excitation on the pulmonary pressure were simply due to the reaction of the pulmonary vessels to the accompanying carotid rise .
In some cases this objection has no force whatever , since there is no carotid rise or there may even be a carotid fall .
In other cases , e.g. , in stimulation of the fifth dorsal neive , there is often a rise of blood-pressure in both vessels , and so we see how important it is to get a clear notion as to what effect a given rise of arterial tension has on the pulmonary blood-pressure .
Before describing the results we have obtained in this direction , it will be convenient to consider shortly the actual amount of the pulmonary blood-pressure , and the manner in which it is influenced by artificial inflation of the lungs .
The pressure is found to vary between 16 mm. and 20 mm\gt ; mercury in different dogs , these being the animals we have always used in our experiments .
The pressure in the main artery is a millimetres higher than this .
The pulmonary pressure is very constant in its height , not only | the same animal during the course of an experiment , but also different animals .
In this point it contrasts strongly with the aoi pressure , since the latter is very variable in amount after the necessary 1889 .
] The Innervation of the Pulmonary Vessels .
operative procedure described above .
The aortic pressure must fall very low indeed for the pulmonary pressure to be appreciably diminished in amount .
The following is an instance bearing out the truth of this statement .
Section of spinal cord at level of seventh dorsal nerve caused the aortic pressure to fall from 106 mm. Hg to 52 mm. Hg .
The pulmonary pressure fell from 16 mm. to 14 mm. Hg .
Thus , while the aortic pressure fell to half its previous height , the pulmonary pressure only diminished by one-eighth of its previous amount .
Artificial inflation of the lungs causes a rise of pressure in both systems followed by a fall during the subsequent expulsion of the injected air .
The pulmonary rise is more sudden and marked in character than the aortic rise , but the rise and fall of pressure in the two vessels are , as far as can be determined , quite synchronous .
The effect of artificial inflations is the same , whether the vagi are intact or whether they have been previously divided .
We will now turn our attention to the effects produced on the pulmonary blood-pressure by a sudden increase in the aortic pressure .
It is evident that this rise of pressure in the systemic circulation must be produced in such a way as to avoid stimulating , if possible , the vaso-motor centre reflexly , although , as we shall see later on , the results obtained by reflex excitation are also valuable in'deciding this question .
Three methods have been used by us to produce a large rise of blood-pressure in the systemic circulation , and so to determine the passive effect of this rise on the pulmonary circulation .
They are as follows:\#151 ; I. The excitation of the peripheral end of a divided splanchnic .
II- The excitation of the lower end of the spinal cord divided in the middle of the dorsal region , and care being taken that no spreading of the current to the central end occurs .
HI .
Compression of the thoracic aorta .
I. Results obtained by Excitation of the Peripheral End of a divided Splanchnic .
The rise of systemic blood-pressure is of course considerable , in many cases it is doubled .
The rise of pressure in the pulmonary artery is not , however , very marked .
Thus in one case an excitation lasting seconds produced a rise of aortic pressure amounting to 54 mm. Hg .
6 accompanying rise of pulmonary pressure was only 3 mm. Hg .
j I he aortic pressure was rather more than doubled , having risen r 'm ^0 mm. Hg to 104 mm. Hg , on the other hand , the pulmonary rise ^as from 13 mm. Hg to 16 mm. Hg , the mean rise being , however , " 5 mm. Hg .
hese results are curiously similar to those mentioned above , where Dr. J. R. Bradford and Mr. H. P. Dean .
[ Feb. 21 a fall of aortic pressure from 105 mm. to 52 mm. Hg was accompanied by a pulmonary fall of only 2 mm. Hg , Thus in two different animals sensibly the same effects were pp0 .
duced in the pulmonary pressure in opposite directions by practically equal changes of pressure in opposite directions produced in the aortic pressure .
II .
Results obtained by Excitation of the divided Spinal Cord .
Excitation of the lower end of the divided cord produces an enormous rise of general blood-pres sure , but the accompanying rise of pulmonary pressure is not only always small but it is frequently absent , Thus in one case stimulation for 38 seconds caused a rise of general blood-pressure amounting to 180 mm. Hg , and the simultaneous pul-monary rise was 6 mm. Hg .
This is an extreme case .
In many instances the pulmonary rise was less than this , even when the aortic rise was quite as marked .
In this case the aortic pressure rose from 52 mm. Hg to 232 mm. Hg , and the pulmonary pressure from 20 mm. Hg to 26 mm. Hg , thus although the aortic pressure was quadrupled , the pulmonary pressure was only raised by less than one-third of its previous amount .
III .
Results obtained by Compression of Thoracic Aorta .
\#166 ; When this vessel is compressed about the middle of the dorsal region by the huger introduced through the wound , the aortic pressure measured in the carotid undergoes a great and sudden rise , followed on removing the finger by a transitory fall .
If the compres-sio'n be maintained for only a short time , .
, 10 seconds , then there is no rise of pulmonary pressure , although , of course , the aortic pressure will have been greatly augmented , in this case from 104 mm. to 169 mm. Hg , a rise of 65 mm. Hg .
If , however , the compression be maintained longer , then the pal* monary pressure rises as we see from the following experiment : The aorta was compressed for 30 seconds , and the aortic pressure rose from 71 mm. to 128 mm. Hg , and that in the pulmonary artery from 19 mm. tp 22 mm. Hg .
In all three of the preceding series of experiments the pulmonary rise is very small when compared with the enormous effects produced in the aortic pressure .
In all these cases the pulmonary rise was roughly one-twentieth of the simultaneous rise in the systemic cir culation .
Not only is the rise of pulmonary pressure small when cpmpared to the aortic rise , but the actual pulmonary rise is hut a small fraction of the total pulmonary pressure .
Thus , although some of the above methods may double or even quadruple the aortic pressure , 1889.1 The Innervation of the Pulmonary Vessels .
yet none of them canses anything like a doubling of the pulmonary pressure .
In other words , when a great aortic rise has succeeded in producing a pulmonary rise , the latter is not only small relatively to the aortic rise but also relatively to the pulmonary pressure itself .
We may conclude that not only must a great rise of aortic pressure occur in order to produce any appreciable rise of pulmonary pressure , but also that this rise must be of some duration .
The further discussion of the mode in which a rise of aortic pressure produces a rise of pulmonary pressure will be entered into at the close of this communication .
Having thus described shortly what may be called the mechanical effects of rises of aortic pressure on the pulmonary circulation , we will now consider the results of reflex excitation of such nerves as the sciatic and vagus .
Results of Excitation of the Central End of the divided Sciatic .
It is well known that the rises of aortic pressure produced by the excitation of this and other afferent nerves are frequently very considerable .
This is especially the case with the sciatic nerve .
In one case the stimulation of the central end of this nerve gave an aortic rise of 36 mm. Hg , and the accompanying pulmonary rise was only 2 mm. Hg , i.e , , one-eighteenth of the aortic rise , that is to say , nearly the same ratio as that obtained in the previous experiments described above in the passive reaction of the pulmonary vessels to rises of general arterial tension .
In another instance , with an aortic rise of 30 mm. Hg , there was no simultaneous pulmonary rise .
Results following Excitation of the Central End of divided Vagus .
With this nerve somewhat different results are obtained , Ihus , in one case , the aortic rise was 32 mm. Hg and the pulmonary rise 4 mm. Hg , i.e. , the relative ratio of the two effects being one-eighth .
This result was obtained in the same animal that previously gave with the sciatic a ratio of one-eighteenth .
In the case of the vagus the pulmonary rise was double that observed with the sciatic , although the aortic rises were almost the same in the two cases , i.e. , 36 mm. and 32 mm. Hg .
It is clear* then that , although in this animal the vagus and sciatic gave on stimulation practically equal effects in the systemic vessels , yet the results on the pulmonary vessels were by no means the same in the two cases .
Hence the only conclusion is that excitation of the central end of the divided vagus caused a reflex contraction of the pulmonary vessels and thus caused a heightened pulmonary tension , , h the cat frequently and in the dog occasionally the stimulation of \#169 ; central end of the vagus causes a fall of blood-pressure instead of ri8e\#187 ; in many cases the fall of aortic pressure is considerable .
Thus Dr. J. R. Bradford and Mr. H. P. Dean .
[ Feb. 21 , in one experiment the central end of left vagus was excited fop 28 seconds and the aortic pressure fell from 112 mm. to 66 mm. Hg , i.e. , a fall of 56 mm. Hg .
The pulmonary pressure fell from 17 mm. to 14 mm. Hg , i.e. , a fall of 3 mm. Hg .
This pulmonary fall is rather greater in amount than that previously described as occurring after section of the cord in the dorsal regiou , but it is not too large to be explained on the grounds of a passive effect owing to the large aortic fall .
It is , however , with stimulation of the posterior surface of the spinal cord , that the greatest relative effects are seen .
When this mode of excitation is used the rise of pulmonary pressure is frequently as much as one-tenth of the simultaneous aortic rise , i.e. , the ratio is higher than with any of the previous methods of experimentation .
No doubt part of this effect may be due to the direct excitation of the pulmonary vaso-motor fibres , as will be shown below .
Probably , however , the result is mostly due to reflex effects dependent on the cord stimulation , and this is confirmed by the fact that excitation of the central end of a divided posterior root of the upper nerves will cause a great relative rise of pulmonary pressure .
On the other hand , the excitation of the central end of a divided intercostal nerve causes but slight effects both on the pulmonary and on the aortic blood-pressures .
Occasionally the central end of an intercostal produces depressive effects similar to those just described for the vagus .
Having thus determined the relation existing between a given rise of aortic pressure and the coincident passive pulmonary rise , and also the effects resulting from reflex excitation of the cord , vagus and sciatic , we will now pass on to the question of the existeuce and paths of the vaso-motor fibres .
If the upper part of the medulla oblongata be excited it will , of course , be found that a large rise of aortic and pulmonary pressure will be observed .
If , now , the spinal cord be divided at about tw level of the 7th dorsal nerve and its lower end excited , then just as great or perhaps greater rise of aortic pressure will be observed , but the pulmonary rise will be either very small indeed or else entirely absent .
If the upper part of the medulla be now again excited , the rise o aortic pressure is small owing to the section of the cord , but the pu -monary rise is as great as before .
With stronger excitation this rise of pulmonary pressure becomes greater whilst the accompanying a0 rise is still comparatively small .
Thus , in one case , the excitation the lower end of the divided cord caused an aortic rise of 150 mm. The accompanying pulmonary rise was less than 2 mm. Hg .
On no exciting the medulla in the same animal the aortic pressure i ' 55 mm. only , owing to section of the cord , but the pulmonary pressure 1889 .
] The Innervation of the Pulmonary Vessels .
375 rose from 16 mm. to 22 mm. Hg , i.e. 6 mm. Thus in the latter case the aortic rise was one-third of what it was in the previous experiment , but the pulmonary rise was three times as great .
This experiment then clearly demonstrates that the pulmonary pressure is not dependent on the aortic rise , since the latter can be obtained without the former , and a pulmonary rise , very considerable in amount , can be obtained when the aortic rise is either small or large .
Hence this result points strongly to the conclusion that the vasomotor centre can influence the pulmonary vessels directly .
In the light of Gaskell 's work on the sympathetic , we naturally turn to the roots of the upper dorsal nerves , and we are enabled to map out the paths by which these vaso-motor nerves reach the lung .
When the peripheral end of such a nerve as the 6th or 7th dorsal is excited a rise of pressure in both the pulmonary and aortic system is observed .
The pulmonary rise , although considerable , e.g. , 3 or 4 mm. Hg , is not out of proportion to the aortic rise which , with these nerves , may be as much as 30 or 40 mm. Hg .
On ascending , however , very different results are obtained .
Thus in one case the 6th dorsal gave an aortic rise of 10 mm. Hg only , but the pulmonary rise was 3 mm. Hg .
Clearly the latter was not a passive effect of the former .
In another case the 4th dorsal gave an aortic rise of 20 mm. Hg , and a pulmonary rise of 4 mm. Hg .
\#187 ; Perhaps , however , the most marked and conclusive result is seen with the 3rd dorsal nerve .
This nerve frequently causes no aortic rise , and , indeed , sometimes actually a fall , e.g. , 10 mm. Hg , but in both these cases there is a distinct pulmonary rise of 3 or 4 mm. Hg .
We sometimes get such a fall in the aortic pressure accompanied by a pulmonary rise with the 4th nerve and twice we have seen it with the 5th nerve .
As a rule these effects cannot be obtained when the accelerators produce marked effects , and hence no very definite results have been obtained from stimulation of the 2nd dorsal nerve .
Often , however , the heart is already beating rapidly , so that irritation of the accelerator nerves causes no further increase in rate , and it is under these circumstances that the pulmonary vaso-motor fibres can be most easily demonstrated .
.Thus , as , we pass from the 7th to the 2nd nerve , the effect of their excitation on the aortic pressure diminishes as we pass from below upwards , and the upper nerves may even cause a fall of pressure in systemic circulation .
On the other hand , the effect on the pulmonary pressure seems to increase as we pass from below upwards , ence we may conclude that the vaso-constrictor fibres for the lungs save the spinal cord in the roots of the dorsal nerves from the 2nd 1 to the 7th .
An attempt was made to separate the pulmonary nerves from the 376 The Innervation of the Pulmonary Vessels .
[ Feb. 21 , cardiac nerves in the branches of the ganglion stellatum and in the annnlns Vieussenii .
As yet , however , we have not been able to separate the pulmonary vaso-motor fibres from the accelerator fibres .
The objection will of course be made that the effects are slight , and no doubt they are , but when we consider that enormous changes in the aortic pressure produce such extremely slight effects , it is clear that , small as these effects are , they conclusively show that they are dependent on the contraction of the pulmonary vessels , and not on any passive effect from the slight rises in the aortic pressure .
There seems no doubt that the vaso-constrietor mechanism of the lungs is not very highly developed .
It is impossible to get anything like a doubling of pulmonary blood-pressure by any kind of nerve excitation , although the systemic blood-pressure can easily be doubled or even quadrupled .
The amount of possible contraction of the pulmonary arterioles is probably not nearly so great as that of the systemic vessels , and this view is confirmed by the results of asphyxia on the pulmonary circulation .
Results of Asphyxia on the Pulmonary Circulation .
In asphyxia both the aortic and the pulmonary blood-pressures undergo a considerable rise , but the rise of pressure in the pulmonary vessels lasts longer than that in the systemic , so that when the aortic pressure is falling rapidly , the pulmonary may be at its highest point .
The rise of pressure occurs synchronously in the two sets of vessels , and the general course of the two curves is the same , except that the pulmonary rise is more gradual than the aortic rise .
As a rule , the sudden and great elevations seen on the aortic blood-pressure curve are not well seen on the pulmonary trace , but notwithstanding this , the maximum rise of the pulmonary pressure may be very considerable , e.g. , it may be doubled .
If , however , so large an effect as this is seen , the aortic pressure will have undergone a very much greater relative rise , i.e. , it will have been quadrupled .
The Traube curves , so well marked on the aortic blood-pressure tracing , are but faintly marked in the case of the pulmonai'y artery , and hence it is difficult to say whether the effects are direct or due simply to passive reaction from the systemic circulation .
It is probable , however , that they are direct .
The curious maintenance of the pulmonary pressure at such * height as death approaches , when the aortic pressure has fallen perhaps to half its previous height , is probably due to venous distension as much as to the increased peripheral resistance , but this is a point we wish to investigate further .
Presents .
1889 .
] Conclusions .
The pulmonary vessels of the dog are supplied with vaso-motor fibres leading the cord through the roots of the uppermost dorsal nerves .
Jo efferent vaso-motor fibres have been detected in the vagus nerve .
The pulmonary circulation is comparatively independent of the systemic , and alterations in the blood-pressure of the latter must be of large amount to affect the pulmonary blood-pressure .
It is probable that no rise of aortic pressure can materially influence the pulmonary blood-pressure , Unless it is so great in amount or duration that the heart muscle and valves are unable to cope with it , and so an actual regurgitation is produced .
It is possible that the pulmonary blood-pressure can also be affected hy rises of systemic pressure causing venous distension , and hence an increased supply to the right side of the heart .
Finally , although it is undoubted from the results of this research that the mammalian pulmonary vessels receive vaso-motor nerves , yet it is probable that the vaso-motor mechanism is but poorly developed 'as compared " with that regulating the systemic arteries .
In this respect it may be that the pulmonary system holds an intermediate position between the systemic arteries on the one hand and \#166 ; the veins on the other .
This question we hope to elucidate by a further* research .
We also hope that , shortly , we shall be able to give the results of our researches on the vaso-dilator nerves of the lungs .
Presents , February 21 , 1889 .
Transactions .
Adelaide:\#151 ; Royal Society of South Australia .
Transactions and Proceedings .
Yol .
X ( 1886-7 ) .
8vo .
Adelaide 1888 .
The Society .
Albany :\#151 ; New York State Museum of Natural History .
Bulletin .
Nos. 4-6 .
8vo .
Albany 1888\ Report , 1887 .
8vo .
Albany 1888 .
' The Museum .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars [ Y arious numbers to meet deficiencies ] .
4to .
1879-88 ; Studies ( Historical and Political Science ) .
Seventh Series .
Nos. 1\#151 ; 3 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1889 .
The University , elgrade:\#151 ; Royal Servian Academy .
Bulletin .
Nos. 1\#151 ; 9 .
8vo .
Beograd 1888 ; Annual .
1887 .
8vo .
Beograd 1888 ; Obituary 'f J. Pancid .
8vo .
Beograd 1888 .
[ In the Servian language .
] ^ ' The Academy , ergeu : Museum .
Aarsberetning .
1887 .
8vo .
Bergen 1888 .
The Museum .

