428 Mr. J. N. Lookyer .
On Phenomena [ Mar. 20 , Photographs of the spectra of Sr , Cu , and Mg , showing central thickening .
I. Sr , containing two lines , one Ba showing very little thickening , while the other true Sr line exists only at the centre as abroad , fluffly reversed line .
II .
Cu , all the Cu lines in this photograph have their central portions expanded , and most of them to a greater extent on the less than on the : more refrangible side .
Some of the Fe lines have also their centres expanded , which is not the case with the Ca lines , the Ca lines in the blue being developed at their extremities .
III .
Mg , showing line in the blue-green , with a central expansion on the less refrangible side , giving the line the appearance of a half spindle , b being quite normal .
Spectrum of Sn ; showing lines of Ca and Fe ; the former are expanded at their lower extremities , the Fe lines are not so expanded , but exist at a higher level than the Ca lines .
The photograph shows that the line which is basic to Fe and Ca is carried up with the other Fe lines , and is also expanded at its lower extremity with the other Ca lines .
II .
" Note on some Phenomena attending the Reversal of Lines .
" By J. Norman Lookyer , F.R.S. Received March 5 ; 1879 .
In the " Phil. Trans. " for 1878 , page 253 , I gave an account of an experiment devised by Dr , Prankland and myself , in which the absorption line of sodium was made to vary considerably in thickness , owing to the variation in the quantity of sodium vapour which was produced in a tube when a mass of metallic sodium was heated in an atmosphere of hydrogen .
In the " Phil. Trans. " for 1874 , vol. clxiv , Part II , p. 805 , speak- ; ing of the photographs of arc spectra which I had then commenced to take , I stated , " it not unfrequently happens that a very thick line will reverse itself , a circumstance which greatly facilitates its comparison with confronted lines , since a thin dark line then runs down the centre of the thicker bright one , " and I pointed out in a note that the absorption line does not always occupy the exact centre of the bright band .
I gave examples of this from the spectra of calcium and aluminium , the examples being reproductions of photographs of the arc .
These were published with the paper .
In other subsequent communications , I have referred to these reversals , and I have elsewhere made general statements with regard to them , and drawn attention to the distinction between those substances which give us winged lines in arc spectra and those which do not .
If the method of throwing an image of the arc upon the slit be employed , a method which I suggested and utilised in 1870 , * for * " Phil. Trans.1873 , p. 254 .
1879.1 attending the Reversal of Lines .
terrestrial substances , there is no difficulty in seeing the reversal of winged lines in the case of all spectra in which they exist , and such lines lying in the region between K and G have been photographed and exhibited to the Society on several occasions m connexion with one part or another of my researches .
When a lamp of thirty cells , however , is used , although the various curious phenomena which these reversals present are easily visible , it is very difficult to photograph them . . .
t The longer arc given us by the Siemens ' machine to which I have referred in another communication has enabled me , however , to photograph several of the various aspects put on during the process of reversal ; these photographs I exhibit to the Society ; chief among these phenomena are the various thicknesses of the lines of reversal over the arc and poles , and the appearance of the bright line without reversal in some regions , and the reversal without bright line in others .
# . .
All the phenomena presented by the absorption of the D line to the eye are here in duplicate .
It may be useful , perhaps , to state what phenomena are seen in the case of the D line , when a small image of the arc , carefully focussed for the yellow light , is thrown upon the slit and considerable dispersion is employed .
j\#163 ; arc is observed before the introduction of the sodium on to the poles , with the poles slightly separated , the continuous spectrum of each pole will be bounded by a sharp line , and in the included region the exquisite flutings of the carbon vapour will be seen together with the lines due to any metallic substances present .
The metallic lines will be thickest near one pole , and will overlap its continuous spectrum , while the carbon flutings will overlap the other .
The D lines in the arc should occupy the centre of the field of view .
If now a piece of metallic sodium be placed on the lower pole , the whole of the light will be blotted out , if the field of view be small .
Gradually the two ends of the spectrum of the arc will begin to appear on either side of the field , the sharp boundary lines to which reference has been made having disappeared , as the poles are no longer _ incandescent . . .
The absorption in its retreat to the central region will next take the appearance of a truncated cone , its base resting on that side of the arc formerly occupied by the carbon flutings .
The intense blackness gradually changes into a misty veil through which , as it were , the D lines gradually make their appearance as enormous truncated cones with their bases turned in the opposite direction to that occupied by I the original absorption .
The more refrangible line is twice as thick as the other , and is often contorted while the other is rigid .
Gradually , as the quantity of sodium vapour is reduced , the poles regain their original incandescence , Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On Phenomena [ Mar. 20 , and the one to which the carbon hands attach themselves will become more vividly incandescent than the other .
Then begins a new set of phenomena\#151 ; the absorption of the light of either pole .
Generally on the more incandescent pole the absorption widens for a space , then narrows and finally puts on a trumpet appearance and is lost , as if the molecules to which the absorption is due were then , owing to the reduction of temperature , being reconstructed , thus increasing the quantity of available absorbing material of this particular kind .
Very often on the opposite pole the line is seen merely as a bright one , or again the absorption is reduced to its smallest proportions .
Having thus stated the phenomena with regard to the D line , it will be convenient to make some general statements supported by the various photographs which I now submit to the notice of the Society .
I. We have first a general absorption of the light of the arc over the region to be eventually occupied by the bright line .
II .
Next the disappearance of this indefinite absorption and the formation of a truncated absorption of a symmetrical bright and wider line .
III .
Next the parallelism of the boundaries of the bright and dark lines in the centre of the arc itself .
IV .
Next the various absorption phenomena on the two poles .
V. Finally the extinction of the absorption line in the arc .
The other lines in the sodium spectrum are also good representatives of cases in which the absorption leads to different appearances , or in which absorption phenomena are entirely wanting .
For instance , the double green line of sodium shows scarcely any trace of absorption when the lines are visible ; but before the lines are produced out of a general brightness which fills the whole field the absorption is visible as line absorption , the less refrangible member , being thicker and darker than the other , exactly the opposite to what holds with the D lines .
I have observed no absorption in the case of the blue line , but the radiation phenomena are extremely curious taken in connexion with the other lines .
While the D lines put on the appearance of black truncated cones , while the green lines widen at their bases towards the red and not at all towards the more refrangible side , the blue lines are only widely developed in the centre of the arc , and are least developed in that portion of it where the phenomena of the other lines are seen in their strongest intensity ; thereby affording a striking instance of the irregular absorption and radiation of the molecules of the same element in the same sectional plane of the arc .
The red double line of sodium I have never seen reversed nor irregularly widened .
When a Siemens ' lamp is employed , the absorption phenomena of the flame referred to in another communication merit a most careful 1879 .
] attending the Reversal of Lines .
study .
The lines which reverse themselves most readily in the arc are generally those , the absorption of which is most developed in the flame ; thus the manganese triplet in the violet is magnificently reversed in the flame , and the blue calcium line is thus often seen widened , H and K being not only not absorbed , but entirely invisible .
LIST OF PHOTOGRAPHS EXHIBITED .
Photographs showing passage from truncation to parallelism .
I. Spectrum of Sr , showing two reversed lines ( wave-lengths 4078*5 and 4215*3 ) gradually broadening towards one end .
II .
Spectrum of Ca , showing reversal of the blue line , and of H and K. While the blue line presents the appearance of a cone , through the centre of which is the absorption line bounded by parallel sides , the H and K lines are almost normal in their appearance , showing , however , , a slight widening at one extremity .
III .
Spectrum of Mn , showing blue Ca line tapering to a point at one extremity and enlarging spindle-shape towards the other end ; the reversal of this line does not extend through its whole length , but merely through the bulging portion , tapering gradually to a point .
IY .
Spectrum of Sr , showing the two lines ( 4078*5 and 4215*3 ) which this time present an appearance very similar to the blue Ca line in the last photograph .
In the more refrangible line , however , the reversal retaining its tapering form extends through the whole length of the line .
Two photographs of the spectrum of Ca , in which not only the blue line but also the H and K lines present the appearance of truncated cones* Spectrum of Mn , showing the absorption of its triplet ( at wave-length about 4030 ) without its radiation .
Spectrum of Mn , in which the triplet is again reversed .
Here the triplet , together with its two included bright lines , looks exactly like a group of eight radiation lines , each reversed line giving the appearance of two bright lines .
Photographs showing non-symmetrical lines .
I. Spectrum showing two Ag lines at about wave-lengths 4054*3 and 4210*0 .
Both lines are fluffy and reversed ; the less refrangible line is much more strongly expanded on its more refrangible side , and is carried up to a much greater height as a radiation line than its other side .
The more refrangible line is more symmetrical , but presents the same phenomena to some extent , only in the opposite direction , its less refrangible side being the most developed .
II .
Spectrum of Bb , showing line at wave-length 4202 .
Here the two ends of the line are produced by radiation alone , the central portion showing absorption on its more refrangible side with fluffy shading on its less refrangible side .
Spectra of Sr and Cs , showing the absorption of light due to the poles .
Photographs showing the trumpeting of lines .
I. Spectrum of Ca , in which the reversal is seen to widen as we approach the faint end produced by the cooler external region of the arc , thus showing absorption increasing with reduction of temperature . .
II .
Another spectrum of Ca , showing the same thing again .
III .
Spectrum of Pb , showing that the Pb line at wave-length 4058 also trumpets .
Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
Discussion of \#166 ; [ Mar. 20 , \#166 ; , IY .
Spectrum stowing the Ba line at 4553 4 trumpeting .
Here the line , after proceeding to a considerable distance from the hottest region of the arc as a fine reversed line , gradually expands towards its extremity .
Flame-spectrum of Mn , showing the reversal of the triplet in the arc-flame .
Flame-spectra of Ca , showing the gradual extinction first of K and then of H as the ; 4||r flame recedes farthest from the arc .
III .
Discussion of " Young 's List of Chromospheric Lines .
" | ( Note I. ) By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received I March 5 , 1879 .
[ Plate 9 .
] In my paper read on the 12th December , 1878 , I called attention to the fact that , in the case of the metals discussed in that paper , with 1 the exception of hydrogen , there was a considerable discrepancy be- 1 tween the intensities of the lines seen in onr laboratories and the I number of times the lines had been seen by Young in his careful ' researches on the chromosphere . .
In a preliminary note " On the Substances which produce the Chro- I mospheric Lines " I pointed out that the lines visible in the spectrum 1 of the chromosphere when a metallic prominence is observed are for the I most part basic lines , that is to say , with few exceptions , the longest I and brightest lines visible in the spectra of the so-called elements are 1 conspicuously absent ; instead of them we find fainter lines , which | Thalen has , in many instances , mapped as common to two elements .
Since these papers were communicated to the Society I have con- J tinued this line of inquiry , and I now propose to state what I have 1 thus far done :\#151 ; 1 .
The maps of the spectra of calcium , barium , iron , and manganese , submitted to the Society in an incomplete state when the preliminary note was read , have been completed .
In these the lengths of the lines in the spectra of the metallic elements represent the intensities .
given by Thalen , whose lines and wave-lengths I have followed in all cases , while those of the lines visible in solar storms , represent the number of times each line has been seen in the spectrum of the chromosphere by Professor Young , to whose important work I have drawn special attention in my last two communications .
An inspection of these maps is sufficient to show that there is no connexion whatever beyond that of wave-length between the spectra ; it will be gathered from the maps how the long lines seen in our laboratories are suppressed and the feeble lines exalted in the spectrum of the chromosphere , see Plate 9 .
The Mh map has been omitted on account of its excessive complication .
0 2 .
I have discussed the coincidences recorded in Angstrom 's map and Thalen tables in the sheets of the " Spectre Normal , " comprising

