274 Mr. H. Gr .
Plimmer and Prof. J. Rose Bradford .
" A Preliminary Note on the Morphology and Distribution of the Organism found in the Tsetse Fly Disease .
" By H. Gr .
Plimmer and J. Rose Bradford , F.R.S. , Professor Superintendent of the Brown Institution .
Received June 12 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1S99 .
( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
) These observations are the result of an inquiry entrusted to us by the Tsetse Fly Committee of the Royal Society , at a meeting of the Committee on March 16 , 1899 .
The material for our investigations was obtained in the first place from a dog and a rat , inoculated with the blood of a dog suffering from the disease , by Mr. H. E. Durham , at Cambridge .
The organism found in the Tsetse Fly disease was discovered by Major Bruce , R.A.M.C. , F.R.S. , and was classed by him as a Trypanosoma .
These belong to the order Flagellata , and , according to Butschli , to the sub-group Monadina .
We will , in the first place , describe the adult form of the organism , such as is met with most frequently in the blood of a susceptible animal affected with the disease .
A. Description of the Adult Form of the Trypanosoma .
In freshly drawn blood examined as a hanging drop , or as a very thin layer in a cell , the adult form of the Trypanosoma can be easily studied .
The latter method is the better , as the organism can be better seen and more accurately examined , in the thin , , uniform layer of fluid than in the rounded drop .
The easiest method of examining the blood in this way is to make , with a red-hot platinum loop and a small piece of paraffin , a thin ring of paraffin on an ordinary glass slide ; the drop of blood is placed in the centre of the ring and a cover-glass placed on it , the thin layer of paraffin preventing pressure .
If it be desired to keep the blood for continuous examination , it should be drawn into a graduated Pasteur pipette , and one-tenth part of a 5 per cent , solution of sodium citrate should be drawn up after it , then the blood and citrate solution should be carefully mixed in the bulb j the tube should then be sealed up , and drops can be taken from it as desired .
Under ordinary conditions of illumination the Trypanosoma , as seen in the blood , appears to consist of a uniform , homogeneous mass of protoplasm , of worm-like form , with at one end a thick , stiff extremity , and at the other a long , wavy flagellum .
It is generally in active motion , and this is seen to be caused by the rapid lashing movement of the flagellum , and by the rapid contractions and relaxations of the On the Organism found in the Tsetse Fly Disease .
275 mass of protoplasm forming the body , and by the movements of an undulating membrane which is attached to one surface of the body , and which appears to undulate synchronously with the contractions of the protoplasmic body .
This membrane is , excepting at the free edge , very transparent , and can be seen much better in citrated blood which has been thickened by the addition of a small drop of 1 per cent , gelatine solution , when its contour and attachments can be much better made out , owing to the slower rate of vibration effected by the thickened medium .
The general shape of the Trypanosoma , when rendered quiescent by this means but not killed , is that of a long oval , with one end blunt and the other continued into the flagellum ; the membrane is then seen to be attached to one side of the body ; it begins a little in front of the blunt end of the organism , and is continued at the end into the flagellum .
But with better illumination , such as a very oblique pencil of rays , or , better still , with monochromatic light ( green or blue ) , the protoplasm is seen not to be homogeneous .
The organism appears then as a highly refractive body , and near the middle , or between it and the flagellate end , is seen a large dark body much more refractive than the rest of the protoplasm ; this is the macronucleus .
Near the thick , stiff end of the body a tiny still more refractive body ( with monochromatic light nearly black ) is seen , which is the micronucleus .
The addition of a drop of 5 per cent , acetic acid makes both of these bodies much more distinct .
At the stiff end of the Trypanosoma , in varying relation to the micronucleus , is seen a vacuole .
There is no suggestion of a mouth or of any organs , but the protoplasm with the most careful illumination appears not to be uniform , which suggests an alveolar structure , as described by Biitschli .
With the ordinary simple stains ( hsematoxylin , fuchsin , methylene-blue , thionin ) the differentiation is not much better than can be observed by careful illumination of living unstained organisms , as these stains are with these , and similar organisms , too diffuse to be of any service .
Acting on a method which Ehrlich originated in 1889 , and which Romanowsky modified in 1891 , and which has still been further elaborated by Ziemann in 1898 , we have used a mixture of methylene-blue and erythrosin , which has enabled us to follow the different stages of the Trypanosoma with certainty .
This method depends on the fact that when a basic and an acid stain are mixed together in certain proportions , a third neutral body is formed , which has a specific colour reaction with chromatin .
By the use of this method we have been able to trace the various stages of the organism in the blood and organs of the affected animals , which is not possible with the ordinary stains , these being useless for many of the forms to be presently described .
With this method the macronucleus of the Trypanosoma is stained a clear , transparent , crimMr .
H. G. Plimraer and Prof. J. Eose Bradford .
son lake , the micronucleus a deep red , and the protoplasm a delicate blue ; these reactions are constant throughout all the stages of its life-history .
The protoplasm of the adult Trypanosoma does not stain uniformly , as does that of some of the other forms , but there are parts faintly stained and parts unstained which is again in favour of the alveolar structure mentioned above .
The vacuole is quite distinct as a clear round space , when the organism is stained by this method .
The macronucleus is generally of an oval or elongated shape , and it may be either unform in colour , or in the form of fine threads ; this latter is seen especially in those forms which show other signs of division .
The micronucleus is seen as an intensely stained round dot , or as a short rod , this latter form again being seen in those'forms which show other signs of approaching division .
With the highest powers ( T5 apochro-matic objective and 18 compensating eyepiece of Zeiss ) we have not been able to make out any special structural characters in this body .
The flagellum is not stained by this method , but if the preparation has been well fixed , it is easily visible ; the vibratile membrane also is unstained , and can be generally better studied in specimens stained by simple stains , preferably thionin .
As regards the movements of the organism , in preparations where no pressure is exercised , they can be seen moving either with the flagellum or with the blunt end in front ; but we think that the commoner mode of progression is with the flagellum forward .
The size and length of the body varies very much with the period of the disease at which the blood is examined , and with the kind of animal .
The largest forms we have seen have been in rat 's blood , just after death , and the smallest in rabbit 's blood , early in the disease .
B. Distribution of the Trypanosoma .
1 .
In the body of Normal Animals .
( a)In the Blood.\#151 ; We have found the flagellate form in the greatest numbers in the blood of the mouse , towards the end of the disease .
In the rat also they occur in great numbers , and in both these animals they can be found in the blood on the fourth or fifth day .
In the dog large numbers can be seen in the blood from the sixth day .
In the cat they are fewer in number in the same lapse of time than in any of the animals before mentioned .
The rabbit seems to be the most refractory animal of any we have as yet used , and the Trypanosoma are found in the blood in small numbers only , and at very uncertain intervals .
( b ) In the Lymphatic Glands.\#151 ; In the superficial glands nearest to the point of inoculation the flagellate organism can be found earliest .
In the rat the Trypanosoma can be found in the nearest superficial gland On the Organism found in the Tsetse Fly Disease .
217 in twenty-four hours after inoculation .
We have not found that generalisation of the organism in the lymphatic glands occurs until nearly the end of the disease , when the organism is present in very large numbers in the blood .
In the rabbit , in which the organisms are few or rare in the blood , the glands do not show any marked change , and the Trypanosoma are not readily found in them .
Many other forms are found in the glands , to which reference will be made below .
( c ) In the Spleen.\#151 ; The adult Trypanosoma is found in but small numbers in the spleens of the various animals we ha\ e examined , but other forms are found there which will be described later .
The enlargement of the spleen is post mortem the most obvious fact in the morbid anatomy of the disease ; it may attain even to four or five times the average volume\#151 ; this is especially the case in the rat .
( d ) In the Bone-marrow.\#151 ; We have found either very few flagellate organisms or none at all , in the bone-marrow of the various animals we have worked with .
The marrow is altered in colour and structure , but there does not seem to be a greater number of Trypanosoma than can be accounted for by the blood in the marrow .
In the other organs and parts the number of organisms present depends upon the relative quantity of blood in the part .
2 .
In the Body of Spleenless Animals.\#151 ; A the spleen in the ordinary animals is the organ which is most obviously altered in this disease , we have made a series of inoculations into animals ( dog , cat , and rabbit ) from which the spleen had been removed a year ago .
In the dog , the adult forms of the Trypanosoma are not found so early in the blood of spleenless as in that of ordinary animals ( seventh day as compared with fourth day after inoculation ) .
The glands , after death , are much more generally enlarged , and are reddish in colour , and contain many more organisms than in the normal animal .
Both the blood and glands contain , however , numerous other forms to be described below .
This marked difference in the colour of the glands of spleenless animals is probably due to the removal of the spleen , and the glands consequently taking on some of the splenic functions .
The bone-marrow is much altered , and in it likewise are found a large number of Trypanosoma : both flagellate and what are termed below " amoeboid " forms .
In the cat the conditions of experiment were altered , the blood ( 1 c.c. ) from the infected animal being introduced , with every precaution to avoid contamination of the tissues , direct into the jugular vein .
In this case the organism appeared in the blood in numbers on the fourth day , and the animal died on the twelfth day .
As the Trypanosoma were introduced into the blood stream direct , there was no marked glandular enlargement , but the glands were all reddish in colour , the Mr. H. G- .
Plimmer and Prof. J. Hose Bradford .
change in colour being due to the spleenectomy .
A few adult organisms were found in the glands and in the bone-marrow .
In the spleenless rabbit a few Trypanosoma have been found in the blood on two occasions , but the animal lived nearly two months , and notwithstanding the failure to detect adult flagellate forms in the blood on numerous occasions , the blood was always infective , and contained numerous forms termed " amoeboid " and " plasmodial " below .
C. Infedivity .
( a ) In Ordinary Animals.\#151 ; The blood and organs of an animal dead of the disease lose , before twenty-four hours after death , their infective power .
This is apparently due to the rapidity with which decomposition sets in after death , as we have found living Trypanosoma in film preparations , made as described above , as long as five to six days after removal of the blood from the body ; and we have also found that large quantities ( 200 c.c. ) of blood removed from the body into a sterile vessel and kept in an atmosphere of oxygen , retain their virulence for at least three days , notwithstanding the fact that the flagellate form cannot be demonstrated .
We have found that the blood of the dog is infective at least two days before any adult Trypanosoma can be seen in the blood ; and we have also found that the blood of the spleenless rabbit , in which we have only on two occasions seen any adult forms , is invariably infective .
This of course suggests the idea that the organisms must be present in another form , and we have been able , by the use of the method of staining described above , to demonstrate the presence of other forms in the blood and organs , and have shown , by the experiments just mentioned , that the infectivity of the blood , in cases where there arfe no flagellate forms discoverable , depends in all probability upon the presence of one of the other forms which the Trypanosoma assumes .
Although a differential staining method , such as the one we have used , is necessary for following and demonstrating the various stages of the life-history of the Trypanosoma , still these stages can be seen in unstained living specimens , with very careful illumination .
As a matter of fact , our first observation of them was in unstained preparations .
In the blood of the dog , cat , rabbit , rat , and mouse , besides the adult forms as described above , which , as mentioned , are very various in size , there are adult forms undergoing division , both longitudinal , and transverse , to which reference will be made later .
Also two organisms are sometimes seen with their micronuclei in close apposition , or fused together , with more or less of their bodies also merged together .
Such forms we believe are conjugations .
Again , there are other large forms , with or without a flagellum , in which the chro- On the Organism found in the Tsetse Disease .
279 matin of the macronucleus is broken up into a number of tiny granules , not bigger often than the micronucleus .
Besides these there are other forms , which we call for convenience here " amoeboid " forms , by which term we mean single , small , irregularly shaped forms , with or without a flagellum , but always with a macro- and micro-nucleus .
These nuclear structures are generally surrounded by a very delicate envelope of protoplasm , of greater or lesser extent , but occasionally forms are seen which seem to consist only of chromatin , with or without a flagellum .
Besides these , again , there are other forms which we call , also for convenience , " plasmodial " forms , meaning thereby an aggregation or fusion of two or more amoeboid forms .
In the blood these plasmodia are not generally very large , but may show evidence of from two to eight separate elements .
Signs of division are very common ; but in the blood one does not often meet with a plasmodium dividing up into more than four organisms of the adult shape .
The plasmodial form also retains intact the two nuclear structures\#151 ; the macro- and micronucleus__which we believe divide in the plasmodium , thus increasing its size .
In the spleenless animals the blood may contain no forms but the amoeboid and plasmodial , such as is the case in the rabbit , yet this blood is infective ; moreover , in the dog , before the adult organism appears in it , the blood is infective , and therein , at this period , these plasmodial forms can be demonstrated .
In the glands these plasmodial forms are found , but only in quantity in those animals from which the spleen has been removed .
The spleen is the organ which shows these forms in the greatest abundance .
The whole spleen is crammed in every part with plasmodia , which are wedged in between the splenic cells in every direction : many anoeboid forms , and also immature flagellate forms are also seen , but the most striking thing is the enormous quantity and uniform distribution of the plasmodia .
The great enlargement of the spleen , which we have found constant in all the animals we have used , is caused by this mass of plasmodia , which we have found in the spleen within forty-eight hours from the time of inoculation .
In the marrow these plasmodial forms are only found , so far as our experience goes , in those animals from which the spleen has been removed .
In these cases there are both plasmodial and amoeboid forms in the marrow , the latter the more abundant .
The principal differences in the distribution of the plasmodial forms in animals with and without spleens is this : that in the animals with spleens the organ of choice for the plasmodia is the spleen , but they are also found constantly in the blood , and in less quantity in the glands , whereas in animals from which the spleen has been removed the plasmodial forms are plentiful in the blood , the glands , and the bone-marrow .
Mr. H. Gr .
Plimmer and Prof. -T .
Rose Bradford .
D. Life-History of the Trypanosoma " Brucii .
" Besides the forms mentioned above , we have seen in the blood and in the organs divisions of the adult form , both longitudinal and transverse , the former the more frequent ; but we think that this direct mode of reproduction is far less common than the indirect by means of conjugation ( probably ) , breaking up of chromatin , production of amoeboid forms , with subsequent division of these amoeboid forms , and the formation of plasmodia by the aggregation or fusion of the amoeboid forms , and these finally giving off flagellate forms , at first small , and gradually increasing up to the normal adult form .
So that we should tentatively summarise the life-history of the Trypanosoma found in Tsetse Fly disease , which we think might properly be called " Trypanosoma , Brucii , " in recognition of the work done in connection with it by its discoverer Major Bruce , F.R.S. , as follows 1 .
Reproduction by division , this being of two kinds:\#151 ; { a ) Longitudinal , the commoner .
( b)Transverse , less frequent .
2 .
Conjugation , consisting essentially , so far as our observations go , of fusion of the micronuclei of the conjugating organisms .
( a ) After this we are inclined to place those forms mentioned above , in which the chromatin is broken up , and scattered more or less uniformly through the whole body of the Trypanosoma , since this occurs after conjugation in other organisms not far removed biologically from this one .
The next stage in our opinion is the amoeboid ; we think that the flagellate form becomes amoeboid perhaps after conjugation , but also probably apart from this process .
( b ) Amoeboid forms .
These are found with and without flagella , of various shapes and sizes , but always possessing a macro- and micronucleus .
These forms are constantly seen in the process of division , and sometimes are very irregular in shape , with , in this case , an unequal number of macro- and micro-nuclei , the latter being the more abundant .
The amoeboid forms then fuse , or aggregate , together to form\#151 ; ( c ) The plasmodial forms .
Whether these are true plasmodia , or whether they are only aggregations of amoeboid forms it is not yet possible to say , but as many related organisms form true plasmodia we are inclined to look upon these masses , provisionally , as true plas modia .
In the spleen these plasmodia reach a large size .
From these again are given off\#151 ; ( d ) Flagellate forms , which increase in size , and become the ordinary adult form .
Small flagellate forms are not infrequently seen in process of separation from the margin of these plasmodial masses .
Besides these forms we have observed frequently , especially in rat 's On the Organism found in the Isetse My Disease .
zoi blood after death , the adult forms arranged in clumps .
They appear , upon watching them for a considerable time , to get tangled together to form a large writhing mass ; then the movements become gradually slower in the centre of the mass , and are only seen at the periphery .
At this stao-e , if the specimen be fixed , the mass appears to be mac e up of a quantity of macro- and micro-nuclei , as the protoplasm does not stain , except in the organisms at the periphery , those which have arrived latest .
Eventually these , too , become motionless , and the mass becomes an indistinct collection of granular matter , which is not infective , so that we look upon these tangles as a proof of death .
Since these observations were made , there has been published an important paper on the Eat Trypanosoma , by Lydia Eabmowitsch and Walter Kempner in the ' Zeitschrift fiir Hygiene , ' vol. 30 , Part 2 .
We have been able to confirm many of the observations and statements as to the morphology and reproduction of the Trypanosoma made by these writers .
But there is no mention made of the plasmodial stage , or of any reproductive stage elsewhere than in the blood ; and the writers recognize only three methods of reproduction , namely , longitudinal and transverse division , and division by segmentation .
This segmentation , they consider , arises from one organism , and they state that it may divide up into as many as ten to sixteen elements .
This segmentation form would seem to correspond to our plasmodial stage , but we have seen much larger masses than those mentioned above , and they do not notice the enormous masses of plasmodia which infiltrate the spleen in every direction , and which can be found also in glands , and marrow .
Moreover , their amoeboid stage ( Kugelform ) would precede the segmentation form , and therefore the " Kugelform " should be much larger than the ordinary adult form , but we have observed that as a rule , our amoeboid forms are very much smaller than the adult forms , some not being visible with any but the highest magnifying powers ; so that we have been unable to accept this foim of division by segmentation , except in the form in which we ha\ e described it above , i.e. , our plasmodial stage .
VOL. LXV .
Y

