]\gt ; Condensation .
401 VIII .
" " On the Forces caused by Evaporation from , and Condensation a Surface By Prof. OSBORNE , of Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by B. EWART , F.R.S. Received M$ tie 16 , 1874 .
It has been noticed by several philosophers , and particularly by Mr. that , under certain circumstances , hot bodies appear to repel and ones to other bodies .
It is my object in this paper to point out , and to experiments to prove , that these eRects are the results of evaporation and condensation , and that they are valuable evidence of the truth of the kinetic theory of gas , .
that gas consists of separate molecules moving at great velocities .
The experiments of which the explanation be given were as follows:\mdash ; A light stem of glass , with pith-balls on its ends , was suspsnded by a silk thread in a glass flask , so that the balls were nearly at the same level .
Some water was then put in the flask and boiled until all the air was driven out of the flask , which was then corked and allowed to cool .
When cold there was a partial vacuum in it , the gauge showing from an inch pressure .
It was now found that when the flame of a lamp was brought near the pith-ball which was nearest the ilams was driven away , with a piece of ice the pith was attracted .
Tbis experiment was repeated under a variety of circumstances , in fflerent flasks and with different balances , the stem being sometimes of glase and sometimes of platinum ; the results , however , were the same in all cases , except such variations as I am about to describe .
The pith-balls wsre more sensitive to the heat and ccld when the flask was cold and the tension within it low ; but the eflect was perceptible until the gauge showed about an inch , and even after that the ice would the ball .
The reason why the repulsion from heat was not apparent at greater tensions , was clearly due to the convection-currents which the .
heat gemewithin the flask .
When there was enough vapour , these currents the pith with them ; they were , in fact , then sufficient to come the forces which otherwise moved the pith .
This was shown by the bar was not quite level , so that ball was curoents aftected them in diflerent degraes ; could be produced by raising or lowerin the of the of the pith also perreptibly affected the sensitiveness When a piece of ice was placed against the side of the glass , would be towards the ice , would to ih If avowed to remain in this condition would condense on the ball the ice , 402 Prof. O. Reynolds while the other ball would become dry ( this case , and was also shown , by the tipping of the the ice gradually getting lower ) .
It was then found , when th6 removed , that the dry ball was insensible to the heat , or nearly so , while that ball which had been opposite to the ice was more than ordiharily sensitive .
lf the flask wsre dry and the tension of the vapour redueed with the pump until the gauge showed an inch , then , although purely steam , the vapour was not in a saturated condition , and the pith-balls which were dry were no longer to the lamp , although they would still approach the ice .
From these last two facts it appears as though a certain amount of moisture on the balls was necessary to render them sensitive to the heat .
In order that these results might be obtained , it was necessary that the vapour should be free from air .
If a small quantity of air was present , although not enough to appear in the gauge , the effects rapidly diminished , rticularly that of the ice , until the convection-currents had it all their own way .
This agrees with the fact that the presence of a small quantity of air in steam greatly retards condensation and even evaporation .
With a dry flask and an air-vacuum , neither the lamp nor the ice produced their effects ; the convection-currents reigned supreme even when the gauge was as low as inch .
Under these circumstances the lamp generally attracted the balls and the ice repelled them , .
the currents carried them towards the lamp and froul the ice ; but , byplacing the lamp or ice very low , the reverse ffiects could be obtained , which goes to prove that they were the effects of the currents of air .
These experiments appear to show that evaporation from a surface is attended with a force tending to drive the surface back , and condensation with a force tending to draw the surface forward .
These effects admit of explanation , although not quite as simply as may at first appear .
It seems easy to conceive that when vapour is driven from there must be a certain reaction or recoil on the part of the body ; Hero 's engine acts on this principle .
If a sheet of damp paper be held before the fire , from that side which is opposite to the fire a stream of vapour will be drawn off towards the fire with a perceptible velocity ; and therefore we can readily conceive that there must bea corresponding and that the paper will be forced back.with a foroe equal to urges the vapour forwards .
And , in a similar way , goes on at a surface it Jnust diminish the and thus draw the surface forwards .
It is not , however , wholly , or even chiefly , that aford an explanation of the phenomena Evaporation and .
403 be insensible , except when the heat on the surface was sufficiently intense to drive the vapour offi with considerable velocity .
This , indeed , might be the case if vapour had no particles and was , what it appears to be , a homogeneous elastic medium , and if , in changing from liquid into gas , the expansion took place gradually , so that the only velocity acquired by the vapour was that necessary to its replacing that which it forces before it and giving place to that which follows .
But , although it appears to have escaped notice so far , it follows , as a direct consequence of the kinetic theory of gases , that , whenever ration takes place from the surface of a solid body or a liquid , it must be attended with a reactionary force dent t increase of pressure on the surface , which force is quite independent of the perceptible motion of the vapour .
Also , condensation must be attended a force equivalent to a diminution of the gctseous pressure over the condensing surface , and likewise independent of the visible motion of the vapour .
This may be shown to be the case as follows:\mdash ; According to the kinetic theory , the molecules which constitute the gas are in rapid motion , amd the pressure which the gas exerts against the bounding surfaces is due to the successive impulses of these molecu ] whose course directs gainst the surface , from which they rebound with unimpaired veIocity .
According to this theory , therefore , whenever a molecule of liquid leaves the surface henceforth to become a molecule of gas , it must leave it with a velocity to that with hich the other particles of gas rebound\mdash ; that is to say , instead of being just detached and quietly passing ofl into the gas , it must be shot off with a velocity greater than that of a cannon-bM .
Whatever may be the nature of the forces which give it the velocity , and which consume the latent heat in doing so , it is certain , from the principle of conservation of momentum , they must react on the surface with a force equal to that exerted on the molecule , just as in a gum the pressure of the powder on the breech is the same as on the shot .
The mpulse on the from each molecule which is driven off by evaporation must therefore be equal to that caused by the rsbound of one of the reflected molecules , supposing all the molecules to be of the same size ; is to say , since the force of rebound ] ] be equal to that of stopping , the impulse from a particle driven ofl by evaporabion will be half the impulse received from the stopping and reflection of a particle of the gas .
Thus the effect of evaporation will be to increase the number of impulses on the surface ; and although each of the new impulses will only be half as eflective as the ordinary ones , th will add to the pressure .
In the same way , whenever a molecule of gas comes up to a surface and , instead of rebounding , is caught and retained by the surface , and is thus condensed into a molecule of liquid , the impulse which it will thus impart to the surface will only be one half as great as if it had rebounded .
Prof. O. Reynolds on Surface-Forces Henoe condensation will reduce the magnitude of of and therefore will reduce the pressure on the condensing surfaoe .
For instance , if there were two surfaces in the same vapour , one of which was dry and the other evaporating , then the pressure would be greater on the moist surface than on that which was dry .
And , again , if one of the surfaces was dry and the other condensing , then the pressure would be greater on the dry surface than on that which was condensing .
Hence , if the opposite sides of a pith-ball in vapour were in such di#erent conditions , the would be forced towards the colder side .
These effects may be expressed more definitely as foUows:\mdash ; Let be the velocity with which the molecules of the vapour move , the pressure on a unit of surface , the weight of a unit volume of the vapour , the weight of evaporated or condensed in second ; .then the weight of vapour which actually strikes unit of dry surface in a second will be and the pressure be given by and ( the force from evaporation ) be given by ; therefore Thus we have an expression for the force in terms of the quantity of water evaporated and the ratio of the pressure to the of the vapour ; and if the heat necessary to evaporate the liquid ( the latent heat ) is known , we can find the force which would remult from a given penditure of heat .
Applying these rssults to steam , we find that , at a temperature of the evaporation of 1 lb. of water from a surfaos would be sufficient to maintain a force of 651bs .
for one second .
It is also important to notice that this force will be proportional to square root of the absolute temperature , and , consequently , approximately constant between telnperatures of and If we take mercury instead of water , we find that the .
instead of .
; but the latent heat of mercury is water , so that the of heat would Evaporation and Condensation .
of the experiments previously described .
When the radiated from the lamp falls on the pith , its temperature will rise , and any moisture on it begin to evaporate and to drive the pith from the wffi be greatest on that ball which is nearest to therefore this ball will be driven away until the force on the other becomes equal , after which the balls will come to rest , unless momentum carries them further .
On the other hand , when a piece of ice is brought near , the temperature of the pith will be reduced , and it will condense the vapour and be drawn towards the ice .
It seems to .
me that the same explanation may be given of Mr. Crookes 's experiments ; for , although my experiments were made on water and at comparatively high pressures , they were in reality undertaken to verify the explanation as I have given it .
I used water in the hope of finding ( as I have found ) that , in a condensable vapour , the results could be obtained with a greater density of vapour ( that is to say , with a much less perfect vacuum ) , the fact being a consequence of the saturated condition of the vapour rather than of the perfection of the vacuum .
Mr. Crookes only obtained his results when his vacuum was nearly as perfect as the Sprengel pump would make it .
Up to this point he had nothing but the inverse efects , .
attraction with heat and repulsion with cold .
About the cause of these he seems to be doubtful ; but I venture to think that they may be entirely explained by the expansion of the surroundin gas or vapour , and the consequent comvection-currents .
It must be remembered that whenever the air about a ball is expanded , and thus rendered lighter by heat , it will exercise less supporting or floating power on the , which will therefore tend to sink .
This tendency will be in opposition to the lifting of the ascending current , and it will depend on the shape and thickness of the ball whether it will rise or fall when in an ascending current of heated gas .
The reason why Mr. Crookes did not obtain the same results with a less perfect vacuum was because he had then too large a proportion of air , or non-condensing gas , mixed with the vapour , which also was not in a state of saturation .
In his experiments the condensable pour was that of mercury , or somethin which required a still higher temperature , and it was necessary that the vacuum should be very perfect for such vapour to be any thing like pure and in a saturated condition .
As soon , however , as this state of perfection was reached , then the effects were more apparent than in the corresponding case of water .
This agrees well with the explanation ; for , as previously shown , the effect of mercury would , , for the same quantity of heat , be three times as great as that of water ; , besides this , the perfect state of the vacuum would allow the pith ( or whatever the ball might be ) to move much more freely than when.in the vapour of water at a considerable tension .
Of course this reasoning not confined to mercury and water ; any gas ch is densed or absorbed by the balls when cold in greater 406 Prof. quantities than when warm would property appears to belong to all gases , it is the vacuum to the right degree of tension .
There was ome fact connected with Mr. Crookes 's independently of the previous considerations , led .
that the result was due to the heating of the pith , result of the radiated heat .
In one of the experiments exhibited a candle was placed close to a flask containing a bar of from the middle : at first , the only thing to notice was oscillating considerably under the action of the candle bar alternately approached and receded , showing that the an influence similar to that which might have been exercised of the thread had this been stiff .
After a few minutes however , it became evident that the oscillations , instead dimimshing , as one naturally expected them to do , than this , they actually increased , until one end of the bar after which it seemed quieter for a little , though the increased until it again passed the light .
As a great lights were moving about , it seemed possible that this external disturbance , and so its full importance did Afterwards , however , I saw that it was only to be ground of the force being connected with the During part of its swing one end of the pith must be perature , and during the other part it must be cooling .
seenthatthe ends will not be hottest when rest the light , furthest away ; they will acquire heat for some time after to recede , and lose it after they have begun to approach .
fact , be a certain lagging in the effect of the heat on the which is apparent in the ction of the sun on a comet , comet to be grandest after it has passed its periheliom .
it is easy to see that the mean temperature of the ends during the time they are retirin than while approaching , driving force on that end which is leavin will , on the balance the retarding force on that which is approaching will be.an acceleration , so that the bar will swing further it passes the candle , after which the hot side ) the bar to the light , and will for a time tend to counteract its bar will for a time be quieter .
This fact is independent the nature of the force ; and although it does tion , it shows that it is aforce dependingon and that it is not a direct result of 1874 .
] caused by Evaporation and Condensation .
407 The particles which impinge on the surface rebound with a greater velocity than that with which they approached ; and consequently the effect of the blow must be greater than it would have been had the surface been of the same temperature as the gas .
And , in the same way , whenever heat is commumcated from a gas to a surface , the force the surface will be less than it otherwise would be , will rebound with a less velocity than that at which they the result may be expressed as follows\mdash ; the symbols having the same meaning as before , representing the energy communicated in the form of heat , the alteration which the velocity of the moleculs undergoes on impact .
As bsfore , or ; and nearly , ; Therefore , in the case of steam at a temperature of ; and in the case of air It must be remembered that depends on the rate at which cold particles will come up to the hot surface , is very slow when it depends only on the diffusion of the particles of the gas inter se and the diffusion of the heat amongst them .
It will be much increased by convection-currents ; but these will ( as has been already explained ) , to a certain extent , produce an opposite effect .
It would also seem that this action cannot have had much to do ith Mr. Crookes 's experiments , as one can hardly conceive much heat could be communicated to the gas or vapour in such a perfect vacuum as that he obtained , unless , indeed , the rate of diffiusion valies inversely as the density of a gas* .
It will be interesting , however , to see at light experiments will throw on the question .
*June 10.\mdash ; Professor Maxwell has shown that the diffusion both of heat and of the gas aries inversely as the ; therefore , excepting for convection-currenk , the amount of heat communicated from a surface to a gas would be independent of the density of the gas , and hence the force would be independent of the density ; that is to , this force would remain constant as the vacuum improved , while convection-currents and racting forces would gradually diminish .
It seems probable , therefore , that Mr. Crookes 's results are , at least in part , due to this force .

