E C BF D 6 .
A C oB PD V. An Attempt to explain the Phenomenon of the horizontal Moon appearing bigger , than when elevated many Degrees ab ve the Horizon : Supported by an Experiment .
By the Rev. J. T. Desaguiliers , LL. D. F. R. S. Communicated Jan. 30 , 1734-5 .
THIS apparent Increase of the Moon 's Diameter ( which a Telescope with a Micrometer shows to be only apparent ) is owing to the following early Prejudice , which we have imbibed from Children .
When we look at the Sky towards the Zenith , we imagine it to be much nearer to us , than when we look at it towards the Horizon ; so that it does not appear Spherical , according to the vertical Section EFGH I , ( Fig. 4 .
) but Elliptical , according to the Section eFgh i. For this I appeal to every body 's Sense of seeing ; but not to their Reason , which is apt to take off the Prejudice in Persons that have some Knowledge of Astronomy .
Whereas any other Person looking up very high towards the Sky , and then forwards near the Horizon , will ( when asked ) say that the Sky over his Head appears much nearer .
The Sky thus seen , strikes the Eye in the same Manner as the long arched Roof of the Ile of a Cathedral Church , or the Ceiling of a long Room .
This being premised , let us consider the Eye at C , upon the Surface of the Earth , and imagine C at the Surface to coincide with K at the Centre ; to avoid taking into Consideration that the Moon is really farther there from the Eye when in the Horizon , than when it is some Degrees high .
Now when the Moon is at G , we consider it as at g , not much farther than G ; but when it is at H , we imagine it to be at h , almost as far again .
Therefore , while it subtends the same Angle as it did before ( nearly ) , we imagine it to be so much bigger as the Distance seems to us to be increased .
I have contrived the following Experiment to illustrate this : Fig. 5 .
I took two Candles of equal Height and Bigness .
A B , C D , and having placed AB at the Distance of fix or eight Feet from the Eye , I placed CD at double that Distance ; then causing any unprejudiced Person to look at the Candles , I asked which was biggest ?
and the Spectator said they were both of a Bigness ; and that they appeared so , because he allow 'd for the greater Distance of C D ; and this also appeared to him , when he looked thro ' a small Hole .
Then desiring him to shut his Eyes for a Time , I took away the Candle C D , and placed the Candle OF close by the Candle A B , and tho ' it was as short again as the others , and as little again in Diameter , the Spectator , when he opened his Eyes , thought he saw the same Candles as before .
Whence it is to be concluded , that when an Object is thought to be twice as far from the Eye as it was before , we think it to be twice as big , tho ' it subtends but the same Angle.-And this is the Case of the Moon , which appears to us as big again , when we suppose it as far again , tho ' it subtends but the same Angle .
The Difference of Distance of the Moon in Perigeo and Apogeo , will account for the different Bigness of the Horizontal Moon at different Times , adding also the Consideration of the Faintness which

