X. " On the Effect of the Pressure of the Atmosphere on the Mean Level of the Ocean .
" By Captain Sir JAMES CLARK Ross , R.N. , F.R.S. Received June 15 , 1854 .
The author states that , in September 1848 , Her Majesty 's ships Enterprise and Investigator having anchored in the harbour of Port Leopold in lat. 74 ?
N. and long .
91 ?
W. , a heavy pack of ice was driven down upon and completely closed the harbour 's mouth , thus effectually preventing their egress , and compelling them there to pass the winter of 1848-49 .
It was during that period that the series of observations here presented to the Royal Society was obtained ; and , as the observations were made under peculiarly favourable circumstances , the author considers they will throw some light on the movements of the tides , and on some of the causes of their apparent irregularities .
Soon after the harbour had been completely frozen over , a very heavy pressure from the main pack forced the newly-formed sheet of ice , which covered the bay , far up towards its head , carrying the ships with it into such shallow water that at low spring-tides their keels sometimes rested on the ground .
Under these circumstances the movements of the tides became to the author an object of great anxiety , and consequently of careful observation , in order to ascertain the amount of irregularities to which they were liable in that particular locality .
The first few days ' observations evidenced much larger differences in the elevation or depression of successive high or low-waters than could be accounted for by any of the generally received causes of disturbance ; and the author was at once led to connect them with changes of the pressure of the atmosphere , from perceiving that on the days of great atmospheric pressure high-water was not so high as it ought to have been , and low-water was lower than its proper height ; and that the reverse took place on the days of smaller pressure .
As it was found that the usual method of determining the mean level of the sea , by taking the mean of successive highand lowwaters , was inadequate to the detection of small quantities arising from a change in the pressure , a system of observation was adopted different from that heretofore practised , in order to determine the mean level of the sea on each day .
In the first instance , simultaneous observations of the height of the tide and of the mercury in the barometer were made every quarter of an hour throughout the twenty-four hours .
From these it was found that the mean level of the sea for each day could be determined with great accuracy , and that the variation in the daily mean level and in the mean pressure of the atmosphere followed each other in a remarkable manner , so that a rise in the former corresponded to a diminution in the latter .
Subsequently however hourly observations were adopted .
The peculiar advantages of the position of the ships at Port Leepold for making tidal observations are stated to have consisted in : 1 .
The great width of the entrance of the harbour admitting the free ingress and egress of the water , combined with the large field of ice which covered the whole of the bay , completely subduing every undulation of the water .
2 .
The steady movement of the immense platform of ice , rising .
and falling with such singular regularity and precision as to admit the reading off the marks of the tide-pole with the greatest exactnesss , even to the tenth of an inch .
3 .
The shallowness of the water and the evenness and solidity of the clay bottom admitting the fixture of the tide-pole with immovable firmness .
4 , The whole surface of the sea in the neighbourhood being , for the greater part of the time , covered by a sheet of ice , preventing those irregularities which occur in other localities from the violence of the wind raising or depressing the sea in as many different degrees as it varied in strength or duration .
For fixing the tide-pole for the " Enterprise " a hole 2 feet square was cut through the icy platform , and a strong pole , nearly 40 feet long , was passed through it and driven firmly down several feet into the clay , being fixed by heavy iron weights , which also rested on the clay and prevented any movement of the pole .
It was placed in about 21 feet depth of water at the time of mean level of the sea .
Another such tide-pole was , in a like manner , fixed through a hole in the ice close to the " Investigator , " for the sake of reference and comparison .
Hourly observations of the height of the tide and of the barometer were commenced on the 1st of November , and were continued by the officers of each ship throughout the whole of the nine following months to the end of July .
After forty-seven days of observation an interruption in one of the series occurred in consequence of the tide-pole of the " Enterprise " having been drawn up by the ice , to the under part of which it had become frozen .
The amount of displacement of the pole was easily determined by a comparison with that of the " Investigator , " but several days elapsed before it could be satisfactorily fixed at the same point in which it had been originally .
The observations of these forty-seven days are those which are given in the paper , and their discussion is the immediate object of the communication .
It is stated that subsequent observations seem to show that , from the time of the interruption to the middle of July , there was a progressive elevation of the mean level of the sea , which , although of small amount , was sufficiently evident from month to month to render the subdivision of the series desirable , in order that the individual observations of each separate division should be strictly comparable .
The height of the sea and the corresponding height of the mercury in the barometer , at every hour in each day , from the 1st November to the 18th December 1848 are given in tables .
In these the arithmetic mean of the hourly heights of the sea for each day is taken as the mean level of the sea for that day , and the mean of the hourly heights of the barometer is taken as the corresponding height of the barometer .
These mean levels and corresponding mean barometric heights are given in another two-column table , arranged in the order of the days of observation ; and in a third table these are arranged in the order of the heights of the barometer with the corresponding mean levels , without regard to the dates of observation , for the purpose of showing the dependence which the latter have on the former .
On these tables the author makes the following remarks .
The forty-seven days of hourly observations give for the mean height of the barometer 29'874 inches , and of the mark of the mean level of the sea 21 feet 0'21 in .
The mean of three days 30227 , and of corresponding level 20 feet 84 inch .
greatest pressure was Tle mean of three days l 29559 , and of corresponding level 21 feet 5-4 inch .
least pressure was ... J Diff. +0-668 Diff. -9-0 Thus a difference of pressure equal to 0'668 inch produced a difference of 9 inches in the mean level of the sea .
As the ratio of 9 to 668 is 13'467 to 1 , the author considers that the effect of the pressure of the atmosphere on the level of the sea is 13-467 times as great as the effect it produces on the mercury in the barometer , or very nearly in the inverse ratio of the specific gravities of sea-water and mercury .
He however states that this remarkable coincidence must be considered in a great measure accidental , for if a greater number of days ' observation be taken in order to deduce the mean greatest and mean least pressure , and the corresponding mean levels , a different result will be obtained .
From these observations however he considers that he has been enabled to deduce results which plainly point to the law which governs the effect of the pressure of the atmosphere on the mean level of the sea , and may be encouraged to pursue the investigation through a more extended series of observations , in order to arrive at the most accurate conclusion that the observed facts may justify .
In conclusion a formula is given for determining the correct height of the tide , or of the mean level of the sea : Let L denote the correct height of the tide , or of the mean level of the sea ; B the mean pressure of the atmosphere ; X the observed height of the tide , or of the mean level of the sea ; 3 the corresponding height of the barometer ; D the ratio of the specific gravity of mercury to that of sea .
water : then L=X + ( -B)D .
Examples are given of the application of this formula .

