Prof. J. K. Green .
Action of Light on 25 established.\#151 ; We have constantly obtained from the cerebellar cortex a tonic contraction of either the triceps pr biceps , or both together , if the " acerebral " tonus had not appeared .
H. Synchronous Excitation of the Cerebellum and Cerebrum .
Synchronous excitation of the cerebral area for the forelimb and the cerebellar focus has given so far , in cases where the cerebellum is definitely excitable , an addition to the tonus elicited previously from the cortex cerebri .
While such reinforcement seems to be the rule , we believe that the clonic character of the cortical impulses is adversely affected by the cerebellar activity .
Since Professor Sherrington 's third note on " Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles " appeared , we have investigated the question of reflex inhibition of the " acerebral " tonus by the graphic method , to see how far the two effects are identical , and have obtained some instructive results , the full discussion of which , however , must be postponed , as the observations are incomplete .
It is sufficient now to say that while we have confirmed Professor Sherrington 's discovery that excitation of an afferent tract on the same ( .
, in our experiments , right ) side causes relaxation of the triceps and contraction of the biceps , we have also found that excitation of a left afferent tract causes relaxation of the biceps and contraction of the triceps , an interesting correspondence with the alternation we observed in the two halves of the cerebellum , and which is obviously related to the movement of progression .
" On the Action of Light on Diastase and its Biological Significance .
" By J. Reynolds Green , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany to the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain .
Received January 28 , \#151 ; Read February 25 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) According to the observations of Brown and Morris , * the quantity of diastase in foliage leaves undergoes considerable variations during the twenty-four hours of the day , being greatest in the early morning and least in the evening , particularly after several hours ' sunshine .
During the past three years the author has carried out a series of experiments to ascertain whether the diminution in quantity is due to a destructive influence of the light upon the enzyme , similar to # ' Jour .
Chem. Soc. , ' May , 1893 .
Prof. J. B. Green .
Action of Light on Fhat which several observers , especially Marshall Ward , * have noticed it to have upon the life of micro-organisms and other lowly forms of vegetation .
The method of investigation has been to expose various solutions containing diastase to the action of light for several hours , either that of the total spectrum or of selected portions of it , and after such exposure to test the hydrolysing power of the solutions upon a weak solution of soluble starch or upon a 1 per cent , starch paste .
Controls have been carefully kept during each experiment , and so arranged that any difference shown in diastatic power has been dearly attributable to the illumination .
The diastatic solutions have been extract of malt ; solution of diastase precipitated from such exti'act by alcohol ; diluted human saliva freed from mucin ; and extracts of foliage leaves .
The solutions have been preserved by the addition of 02 per cent , of potassic cyanide .
The source of illumination has been either bright sunshine , diffused daylight , or the light from a powerful naked electric arc , access to the latter having been obtained through the kindness of Mr. Barker , the manager of the electric light works at Cambridge .
The diastatic power has been ascertained by titrating the results of the digestions with Fehling 's fluid , combusting the filters with the precipitates , and weighing the resulting cupric oxide .
When all the rays of the spectrum were under investigation , the diastatic extracts were exposed to the light source either in quartz-fronted cells , or mixed with films of agar-agar , the former method giving the most satisfactory results .
From many repeated experiments it was found that exposure to the whole of the spectrum for several hours caused the destruction of from 20 to 60 per cent , of the diastase .
When the ultra-violet rays were cut off by the use of glass vessels , glass having been proved by many observers to be opaque to these rays , the effect was different .
At first and for some time there was a very considerable increase in the diastase , but this was succeeded on \amp ; prolonged exposure , lasting several days , by a gradual and almost complete destruction of the enzyme .
By the use of a series of screens , arranged according to the directions of Landolt , t the visible spectrum was divided into five regions : red , extending from wave-length 720 / t/ t to 640 / c/ i ; orange , 640 / \lt ; /i to 585 ytt/ i ; green , 585 fifi to 500 / u/ i ; blue , 500 to 430 / t/ i ; and violet beyond 430 / lijll , and these several bands were examined separately .
Details of the experiments are given iu the complete paper .
The results may be stated in percentages .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 185,1895 .
f ' Ber .
cl. Deut .
Chein .
G-esell .
, ' 1894 , p. 2892 .
Diastase and its Biological Significance .
27 The infra-red , red , orange , and blue regions gave increases of 108 , 53'5 , 4*75 , and 208 per cent. ; the green a diminution of 15*7 per .cent .
The violet gave also a marked diminution , but it was not measured , as no satisfactory screen , allowing only the violet rays to pass , could be devised .
The paper is illustrated by a curve showing these effects .
The effects of the illumination were found to be progressive , the increase or diminution of the diastase continuing after the solutions were removed from the access of the several rays .
The deleterious rays were found to be absorbed by the solution , the absorption being effected partly by the diastase itself , whether boiled or unboiled , and partly by the proteids present in the extracts .
After removal of the latter by boiling and filtration , the solution was still opaque to the rays .
The screening influence of proteids was examined separately , by adding small quantities of egg-albumin to the extracts .
The latter was found to be protective , the degree of protection being ' however , only roughly proportional to the amount of albumin present .
The colouring matter of the barley grain was also ascertained to act as a screen for the deleterious rays .
The living leaf was also examined by the same method as the extracts , and the diastase in it was found to undergo a similar .destruction under the influence of the light .
It was found impossible to investigate the possible protective influence of chlorophyll in the leaf , as all the solvents of the latter proved to be opaque to the ultra-violet rays .
They confirmed , however , the view that the violet rays , and possibly the green , have a destructive effect upon the enzyme .
The experiments lead to the conclusion that there exists in the leaf and in the various extracts examined a certain amount of zymogen which is converted by the infra-red and the red , orange , and blue rays into active diastase .
This conclusion is supported by experiments , detailed in the paper , upon the effect of keeping the solutions for several days at a temperature of 38 ' C. A curve of the effect of this exposure is given in the paper .
The violet and ultra-violet rays , on the other hand , cause a destruction of the diastase , or at least such a change in the configuration of its molecule that it is unable to effect the hydrolysis of starch .
Three other conclusions of some importance have resulted from the experiments:\#151 ; 1 .
That the enzyme is not located in the chlorophyll g'rain , but in the protoplasm of the cell .
2 .
That the suggestion of Pick* and Johowf that the red colour* ' Bot. Central .
, ' vol. 16 , pp. 9\#151 ; 12 .
t ' Pringsheim 's Jahrb .
, ' vol. 15 , p. 299 .
28 Fragmentation in Linens gesserensis .
ing of certain leaves is a material help to the translocation of starch in them is probably sound , as such colouring matters screen off the rays which destroy the diastase .
3 .
That there exists in plants a power of absorbing and utilising the radiant energy of light , sometimes to a considerable extent , without the presence of a chlorophyll apparatus .
The last conclusion appears to be of very far-reaching importance , supplementing other observations already published by Engelmann , * TV inogradski , f Speschnew , and other observers , none of whom , however , have indicated such utilisation of the i*ays of the visible-spectrum .
" Fragmentation in Linens gesserBy Alex .
Brown , .
M.B. , B.Sc. , M.A. , Lecturer in Zoology , and Senior Assistant in the Natural History Department , University of Aberdeen .
Communicated Joy Professor McIntosh , F.R.S. Received February 1 , \#151 ; Read February 25 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The following results are deducible from the investigations described in the paper :\#151 ; 1 .
The zones of fission in Lineus gesserensis coincide with the transverse markings observable externally at definite intervals on its body .
2 .
The process of fission in all cases proceeds from within outwards , i.e. , from the digestive canal towards the cutaneous tissues .
3 .
The process of fission is a process of solution , and that , too , through the agency of the digestive fluids of the alimentary tract .
4 .
The solution of the tissues of the body-wall at the zones of fission is preceded in those regions by circular outgrowths of intestinal epithelium together with the formation of corresponding external grooves .
5 .
In the plane passing through any zone of fission , there is distinct evidence of the exertion of continuous pressure in opposite directions , or pressure exerted outwards through the intestinal outgrowth is met by pressure exerted inwards in the same plane through the body-wall .
6 .
As the result of these opposing forces , atrophy , disintegration and disappearance of the outermost cells of the intestinal outgrowth take place .
Thus the layers of the body-wall are brought into con-* ' Bot. Zeit .
, ' 1888 .
f 'Ann .
de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' 1890\#151 ; 1891 .

