]\gt ; 1902 .
] oximate Solution for the Bending of a .
491 IV.\mdash ; The following values have been obtained for the vapour pressures of solid neon : Terature Pressure scale .
( millimetres ) .
12.8 The vapour pressure of the neon did not change after successive portions of it had been allowed to evaporate .
This proved that neon is a homogeneous substance .
Appendix \mdash ; From consideration of the periodic relationship between the critical and boiling points of the elements of the heliumargon group it appears probable that the critical point of helium lies at about Abs .
and the boiling point at Abs .
Dewar fixes* the former of these points at below or , and the latter at about .
In a series of experiments helium was compressed into a tube .
one end of which was cooled in liquid or solid hydrogen .
At temperatures down to that of solid hydrogen evaporating under a pressure of 5 mm. of mercury ( probably about Abs the pressure on the helium was slowly increased to 60 atmospheres .
Under all oonditions a change of pressure accompanied a change of volume of the gas , and no evidence that liquefaction had taken place could be obtained .
On an tpproximate Solution for the of a Beam of ectangular Cross-section ulder any System of Load , with Special Reference to Poiuts of Concentrated or Discontinuous Loading By L. N. G. FILON , .
( Cantab .
) , M.A. , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , King 's College , Cambridge , Fellow of University College , London , and 1851 Science Research Scholar .
Communicated by Dr. C. CHREE , F.R.S. lRecelved June June 19 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The paper investigates the elastic equilibrium of a long bar of rectangular cross-section in those cases where the problem may be treated as one of two dimensions , namely:\mdash ; When the strain being in the plane of the elastic solid extends indefinitely in the direction of , the applied stresses over the bounding planes being the same for any two sections parallel to the plane of We then have a strictly two-dimensiona ] , p. 492 Mr. N. G. Filon .
Approximate Solution for ' [ June 12 , When , on the other hand , the applied stresses still being in the plane of , the thickness of the bar , in the direction of the axis of is small compared with the other dimensions of the bar , so that we approximate to the case of a thin plate under thrust in its own plane .
It is shown that , if in case ( b ) we assume ( which will be very nearly true , the thinner the lamina that the normal traction across a face perpendicular to is zero throughout the thickness , then the equations connecting the displacements with the mean stresses in the plane of the lamina ( the mean here being taken with regard to the thickness of the lamina ) are of the same form as the equations in case connecting the actual displacements with the three stresses in the plane of , provided only that we make an alteration in one of the elastic constants , being displacements parallel to according to the usual notation .
Of course , the lamina being thin , the displacements will probably vary little as we go across it , so that the mean values will give us an approximatio11 to the displacements at every point .
In like manner the stresses in the planes parallel to lvill not differ greatly from their mean values , S. The equations used in the paper correspond to case ( b ) , but all the resuIts are applicable to case ( a ) by merely changing the elastic constant mentioned .
The body stress equations are where , where and are the elastic constants of Lame .
GeneraI solutions of these equations are found in terms of conjugate .
These solutions are then applied to the case of a rectangular bar bounded by the planes The surfaoe stresses applied to the faces are supposed given at every point , but over the faces only the statical stressresultants ( total tension , total shear , total bending moment ) are supposed given .
This last condition is sufficient , provided is large compared with This is assumed in every case ; eventually the boundaries are removed to infinity .
The first part of the paper is occupied in establishing the formal 1902 .
] the Bending of a ) of Cross-section .
493 solution for the most general system of applied stress of the above type when is finite .
This is found to lead to infinite series of the form ( 1 ) , being a positive integer , and arbitrary constants .
Together with these , infinite series , there enter into the solutions a finite number of terms of the form ( 2 ) .
These represent solutions for certain cases where the body stress equations can be solved in terms , so as to give zero stress over the boundaries .
For instance , a uniform tension parallel to a uniform bending moment , and uniform shear give rise to soltltions of this type .
They can be superimposed upon the others without affecting the stress distributions over , and they are troduced to satisfy the terminal ' ' total\ldquo ; conditions .
In the various cases considered , the length of the beam is allowed to tend to finity .
The series then dsgenerate into integrals .
The transformation and interpretation of these integrals are dealt with at length .
It is shown that they may be expanded in series of the form ( 3 ) , being polar co-ordinates any point in the beam as rigin , being an integer , and being constants , which are determlned .
The form of these series varies with the origin chosen .
Vhen the origin is a pol1lt where a concent here a concentrated load is applied , the series for the stresses with llegative Yalue of ?
terms which become infinite when In this case the series for the displacements conta terms in and , which lead to discontinuities and infinities .
of course could not occur in any actual problem , but in practice the material immediately below a concentrated load would probably become plastic , so that in the immediate neighbourhood of such loads the solution will not apply .
It is found that the terms involving infinities and discontinuities are precisely those to which the solution reduces , when the height is made very large .
They agree with the solutions given by .
Bousslnesq and Flamant*for two-dimensional strains in an infinite solid bounded by a plane and subiected to load concentrated along a straight The series of terms involving positive powers of epresent t the corrections to Boussinesq 's expressions , when the finits height 04 the beam is taken into account .
* ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 114 , ) .
} pp. 1510\mdash ; 16 .
494 Mr. L. N. G. Filon .
Approximate Solution for [ June 12 , The various cases , which are separately dealt with , are as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) When the external stresses upon the top and bottom faces are purely normal and are symmetrical about the mid-section , In the first place , making first large , but not infinite , the various terms of the sine and cosine series ( 1 ) may be expanded in terms of .
Approximabe expressions are then obtained for the displacements and stresses in a very long beam , at a distance from the regions near the points where the loads are applied .
The validity of such expansions has been discussed in a paper by the author " " On the Elastio H:quilibrium of Circular Cylinders under Certain Practical Systems of Load.\ldquo ; * The resuIts in che present case show that to this approximation the stresses are given in terms of the total bending moment and total shear by the formulae given by de Saint-Venant for a beam terminally loaded , but otherwise free .
In the case of the displacements , however , it is found that , for a doubly supported beam under a central isolated load , the vertical deflection of the central axis contains a term where is positive , and where is negative .
Such a term was put in by de SaintVenant for a built-in beam .
Professor Love , starting from different conditions for a built-in end , arrived at the conclusion that the term should be zero .
As a matter of fact the term is found to exist , but the coefficient is only of de Saint-Venant 's value , showing that in passing an isolated load the slope of the elastic hne varies fairly abruptly , but only to about three-fourths of the extent anticipated by de SaintVenant .
The variations in the central deflection , as the supports are brought closer and closer together , are also investigated .
It is found that the excess of the actual over the Euler-Bernoulli deflection ( which excess is sometimes referred to by engineers as the " " deflection due to shear decreases eventually as the span decreases and , for exceedingly small spans , may even become negative .
The series in powers of , deduced from the other expressions when is made infinite , are used to show the variations of stress in the and the resuIts are compared with those obtained by Sir G. StokesT and Boussinesq from an empirical formula .
It is shown that , though the .
empirical formula gives an approximation to the stress in some places , it is by no means to be relied upon .
The case of a beam under opposite isolated loads , which leads at once to the more interesting problem , of a beam carrying an isoIate * Phil. Trans , vol. 198 , pp. 147\mdash ; 233 .
' Phil. Mag ser. 5 , vol. 32 , ] ) 1902 .
] the Bending of a } of Cross-section .
495 load and resting upon a smooth rigid plane , is next considered .
The distribution of the pressure upon the plane is investigated and a new form of expansion found for it .
It is shown that , outside a certain limited area below the load , a fell sion is required to keep the elastic solid in contact with the plane , so that snch a solid would be lifted at the sides , by applying pressure at the centre .
( 2 .
) When the stresses across are still normal , but are asymmetrical with regard to In particular the behaviour of a beam under two concentrated loads acting in opposite seIlses upon opposite faces of the beam , their lines of action being on opposite sides of the mid-section , is studied .
The manner in which the shear across the middle section varies as these loads are made to approach each other is exhibited by various diagrams .
These show how rapidly the effects of the particular distion of any total terminal load die out as we go away from the end .
At a distance of the same ordel as the height of the beam , they already begin to be negligible .
At a lesser distance than this , however , such effects may become exceedillgly important .
The case of rivets is instanced , and it is suggested that the results obtained in the paper may some information which shall be useful in this connection .
( 3 .
) the stresses across are purely tangential .
The special case here treated is where these stresses reduce to a single concentrated tangential force .
As in practice we cannot approximate to a line distril)ution of shearing stress , the effect of spreading it out over an area is investgated .
It is then found that , though the displacements are everywhers finite and continuous , a ( though not an infinity ) in the surface shear leads to .
an infinite stress at the point , and is therefore a source of danger to the material .
It is found also that shear depresses those parts of the solid tow which it acts .
Both these results agree with those previously obtained by the author for circular cylinders .
The effects of applying tension to a bar by shearing stresses over its faces are considered in this connection .
The correction to the readings of an extensometer ( which measures the lrface stretch ) , owing to the diflerence of this distribution of terminal stress from the one usually assumed , is vestigated .
It is found that 110 error will be introduced provided no measurements are taken wiihin distance from the grips less than one and a-half times the long diameter of the section .
Finally the possible cases of solutions in finite terms are discussed , and such a solution is obtained for a beam which carriss a u1llform load .
It is shown that the assumptions of the usual theory of flexure * ' Phil. Trans , vol. 198 , pp. 147\mdash ; 233 .
in the paper to -ordinate tbem , and to present them in a more complete form , and to develop further the two-dimensional theory , so as to obtain solutions to various interesting questions relating to the effects of isolated loads .
" " Antal.ctic Origin of the Tribe Schoeneae By C. B. CLARKE , .
Received March 12 , \mdash ; Read Apri124 , 1902 .
PnATE 1 The map annexed to this paper designed to illustrate the geographic distribution of all the species of the Schoeneae\mdash ; a sub-ordo or tribus of the Cyperaceae .
The result suggests a flow in geologic time of the sub-order from the South Pole up the three great southern prolongations of land , Oceania , South Africa , Temperate South America the number of species dying away rapidly as we recede from the South Pole .
I explain how the map is made .
I take the outline map of the World divided into twenty-three gsographic sub-areas , and my MSS .
of the sub-order Schoeneae show the distribution of every species with reference to these twenty- three sub-areas .
The first species is ) , R. Br .
, which I ses in the .
has been collected in the sub-areas 12 , 13 , 14 , 23 .
I put a spot of black in each of these four sub-areas , and proceed to the next species .
I have treated 262 species in blaok dots , two in rings , two in crosses .
The black dots do not signify anything as to the abundance of a species ; nor in Australia and the Cape do they indicate more than that the species has been collected in that sub-area .
But the otltlying scattered spots in Central Africa , Japan , Jamaica , \amp ; c. , are placed as accurately as the scale of the map would admit .
* ' Theory de l'Elasticite , ' ; also ' Comptes Rcndus , ' vol. 90 , pp. 1272 \mdash ; 74 .
'Sur Divers Cas de la Flexion des Prisms Rectangles , ' Bordeaux , 1889 ; also Comptes ' vol. 126 , pp. 402\mdash ; 404 and 'Quart .
' vol.

