]\gt ; The Existing Limits of Uniformity in Producing Optical Glass .
By J. WILLIAM GIFFORD .
( Communicated by Sir David Gill , F.B.S. Received 23 , \mdash ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) Since Dr. Hopkinson 's paper*little appears to have been published on the refractive indices of the different kinds of optical glass , except in regard to those varieties actually employed in the manufacture of optical combinations , and for these chiefly in the catalogues circulated by the makers themselves .
The work described in this paper has extended over the last 10 years , and includes 27 glass by Messrs. Schott of Jena , Messrs. Parra-Mantois of Paris , and Messrs. Chance of Birmingham .
In each case a portion or the whole of the was purchased\mdash ; in amounts varying from to some hundred kilogrammes in .
The method of measurement employed is described in previous papers .
As described in the last paper , three blocks were chosen at hazard from each elting and cut into approximate equilateral prisms , the surfaces of which were optically polished on all three sides .
The mean refractive index for wave-length 5270 ( E ) was then determined for each of the three prisms of each melting by the accurate methods described , S the results being reduced to , the temperature-coefficient for each melting being determined in the manner described in the paper in question .
The probable differences of these indices were independently computed by two methods:\mdash ; ( 1 ) As described , loc. cit. , p. 332 .
( 2 ) By the usual expression , in this case .
The two methods naturally give different results in the separate cases , but in the mean they as follows:\mdash ; Average probable error of by method ( 1 ) \ldquo ; ( 2 ) The index of refraction at C. for rays of wave-length 5270 having 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1877 , vol. 26 .
especially ' Roy .
Soc. Proc February 13 , 1902 ; and ' Monthly Notices , R.A. December , 1908 .
king trisms tndeavour hways b surfaces as S 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 70 , pp. 329\mdash ; 331 .
This probable error , of course , includes the actual difference in the refractive indices of different specimens of glass from the same melting , and the accidental error of the determination of the index of each .
As the refractive index of each of the three prisms of each melting was completely determined three times , the accidental probable error was readily determined and found to be \mdash ; in other words , so small as not sensibly to affect the above figures .
Mr. J. W. Gifford .
* 192 Existing Limits of Uniformity in Producing Optical been thus accurately determined for the mean of three specimens of each melting , the next step was to determine the indices for rays of other wavelengths .
These were determined , by the same process , from observations through one prism only of each melting , and , after correction to C. , were then reduced by simple proportion to the indices corresponding to the mean index of the melting .
The table gives for 13 values of the mean refractive index for each melting .
At the head of each column will be found the description of the glass , the letter and figure denoting the maker and his number of the melting Schott , Mantois , Chance ) , the value of , and the probable error of the index , computed by each of the two methods above described .
Interpolation .
\mdash ; It has already been shown*that if lists of refractive indices are placed in columns in ascending series of their dispersions , then , by interpolating between corresponding elements in contiguous columns , it is easy to find the index for any glass whose optical position lies between those of the glasses to which the columns correspond .
With this end in view a complete list of the refractive indices of all the glasses measured follows .
* Monthly Notices , .S .
, ' December , 1908 .
Electrical on Thin Anchor-Ring .
It will be seen above that the heavy barium crown glasses are those which show the greatest variation in homogeneity in the same melting .
My thanks are due to Sir David Gill for his great kindness and help in arranging the paper .
Etectrical brations on Thin Anchor-Ring .
By Lord RAYLEIGH , O.M. , F.B.S. Received Read June Although much attention has been bestowed upon the , subjec of electric oscillations , there are comparatively few examples in which definite mathematical solutions have been gained .
These problems are much simplified when conductors are supposed to be perfect , but even then the difficulties usually remain formidable .
Apart from cases where the propagation may be regarded as being in one dimension , * we have Sir J. Thomson 's solutions for electrical vibrations upon a conducting sphere or cylinder .
But these vibrations have so little persistence as hardly to deserve their name .
A more instructive example is afforded by a conductor in the form a circular ring , whose circular section is supposed small .
There is then in the neighbourhood of the conductor a considerable store of energy which is more or less entrapped , and so allows of vibrations of reasonable persistence .
This problem was very ably treated in 1897 , but with deficient explanations .
S Moreover , Pocklington limits his detailed conclusions to one particular mode of free vibration .
I think I shall be doing a service in calling attention to this investigation , and in exhibiting the result for the radiation of vibrations in the higher But I do not attempt a complete re-statement of the argument .
Pocklington starts from Hertz 's formulae for an elementary vibrator at the origin of co-ordinates , ( 1 ) where , ( 2 ) in denote the components of electromotive intensity , is ' Phil. Mag 1897 , vol. 43 , p. 125 ; 1897 , vol , 44 , ; ' Scientific Papers , ' vol. 4 , pp. 276 , 327 .
'Recent Researches , ' 1893 , SS301 , 312 .
'Camb .
Proceedings , ' 1897 , vol. 9 , p. 324 .
S Compare W. .
Orr , ' Phil. Mag 1903 , vol. 6 , p. 667 .

