[ 363 ] XL On the Determination of the Photometric Intensity of the Coronal Light during the Solar Eclipse of August 28-29 , 1886 .
By Captain W. de W. Abney , C.B. , R.E. , and T. E. Thorpe , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read February 14 , 1889 .
Introduction .
Although it has long been suspected that the amount of light emitted by the corona , as seen at various Solar Eclipses , may vary within comparatively wide limits , no attempts to measure its intensity appear to have been made prior to the Eclipse of December 22 , 1870 .
On that occasion Professor Pickering employed an arrangement constructed on the principle of Bunsen 's photometer .
It consisted of a box 9 inches wide , 18 inches high , and 6 feet long , within which a standard candle could be moved backwards and forwards by means of a rod .
One end of the box was covered with a piece of thin white paper , on which was a greased spot about half an inch in diameter .
The box was adjusted so that the rays from the corona were normal to the plane of the paper , and the lighted candle was moved backwards and forwards within the box until the grease-spot was no longer visible .
From a number of observations made during the period of totality of this eclipse , Mr. Waldo 0 .
Boss , acting under Mr. Pickering 's direction , found that the standard candle had to be placed at distances varying from 14'4 to 21 inches from the paper before the visibility of the greased spot was reduced to a minimum .
( ' U.S. Coast Survey Reports , ' 1870 , p. 172 .
) The observations were much interrupted by clouds , and are also probably affected by irregularities in the rate of the burning of the candle .
The mean of all the readings was 18'5 inches : hence the light of the corona in 1870 was apparently equal to 0*42 of a standard candle at a distance of 1 foot .
A precisely similar arrangement was used by Dr. J. C. Smith during the Solar Eclipse of July 29 , 1878 .
Dr. Smith , observing at Virginia City , Montana , U.S. , found from eight observations that the candle had to be placed at a distance of 51J inches from the screen before the minimum of visibility of the greased spot was obtained .
During the same eclipse , Professor John W. Langley made observations on the intensity of the coronal light as seen from the summit of Pike 's Peak , Colorado , by means of a photometric arrangement suggested by Professor S. P. Langley , and intended to measure the relative distribution of light in the corona .
The idea was , first , to draw an outline of the corona ; second , to measure the light of the corona at 3 A 2 9.11.89 .
36G CAPTAIN W. I)E W. ABNEY AND DR , T. E. THORPE ON PHOTOMETRIC lamp was then warmed from 55 ' to 75 ' ; the flame became longer , but when turned down to the height of the gauge the same value was obtained against the glow lamp as before within 2 per cent. Another photograph was taken of the flame from the same position , and the two compared .
The flames in both cases were equal in dimensions .
In the paper last referred to it was also shown that either the Bunsen or the Bumford method of photometry could be adopted .
The method of Bumford is undoubtedly better than that of Bunsen when the lights are very different in colour , as in the latter method there is a certain thickness of translucent material through which both lights have to pass , and ouly after such passage can equality of illumination be estimated ; and if the paper employed for the screen is coloured in any degree , this must of necessity affect the results .
The light of the corona and that of the glow lamp are very different in colour , the former being stronger in the blue end of the spectrum than the latter .
It must be recollected that the greatest luminosity is in the yellow of the spectrum in both cases , and , though the blue end of the spectrum alters the hue , it has very small effect on the luminosity .
This being the case , it was thought that no error of any magnitude would be introduced by adopting the Bunsen plan , since the brightest part of the two spectra would be compared with one another .
It was evidently impracticable to adopt the Bumford method in the apparatus in which the intensity of different points in the corona had to be measured .
For this purpose a telescope by Simms , lent by the Astronomer Boyal , was employed .
The object glass had a focal length of 78 inches and an aperture of 6 inches , thus forming an image of the Moon *76 inch in diameter .
The image was received on a circular white screen contained in a photometric box and placed exactly in the focus of the object glass .
In the centre of the screen was traced a circle of the diameter of the image of the Moon , and during the observation the Moon 's disc was made to fall exactly within the circle .
As the telescope was equatorially mounted with clockwork , the image was kept stationary within the circle .
The screen was of Bives ' paper of medium thickness , and round the pencil-circle a series of small grease spots about .S\#166 ; of an inch in diameter had been made .
There was some difficulty in preparing these small grease spots , but a method was eventually devised which answered admirably .
Faint pencil lines were drawn radially from the centre of the circle , and the places where each spot was to be produced were marked with a dot .
White blotting paper was soaked in spermaceti , any excess being avoided .
Small discs , inch , were punched out , and these discs were put centrally on the dots .
Blotting paper was next placed over them when in position , and a hot flat-iron was passed over them .
The blotting paper and the small discs were then removed , and clean blotting paper and the flat-iron again applied to remove any slight excess of spermaceti .
The screen now presented the appearance shown in fig. 1 .
Several screens were made and tested .
The test consisted in causing a glow lamp on one side of the screen to balance a glow lamp placed at the same distance on the other side by means of a variable resistance in the circuit .
The spots , if correctly INTENSITY OF CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
367 made , become invisible at the same time .
The majority of screens fulfilled this condition , and the best as regards uniformity of size of spot and freedom from grain in the paper were selected for use .
The screen , as will be seen from the figure , was mounted in a circular frame , which could be rotated so as to bring the spots into any desired angular position .
It could be removed at pleasure by releasing it from the buttons which held it in position .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
B To hold the screen a box was constructed , as shown in fig. 2 .
It was made as light as possible , panels of card ( as at P , P ) being used instead of wood when practicable .
The glow lamp to be employed was fixed in a holder inside the box ; this could move along the slot A , and be fixed by a thumbscrew , H , in any desired position .
( It may here be remarked that the plane of the filament was at right angles to the axis of the tube .
) At the end H was an aperture into which the sliding tube of the telescope fitted , at D was a door , which could be opened to adjust the lamp .
I he screen shown in fig. 1 was inserted at S , and held in position by means of buttons .
At 0 was an opening , which was covered by a black velvet bag into which the head of the obseivei [ 363 ] XL On the Determination of the Photometric Intensity of the Coronal Light during the Solar Eclipse of August 28-29 , 1886 .
By Captain W. de W. Abney , C.B. , R.E. , and T. E. Thorpe , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read February 14 , 1889 .
Introduction .
Although it has long been suspected that the amount of light emitted by the corona , as seen at various Solar Eclipses , may vary within comparatively wide limits , no attempts to measure its intensity appear to have been made prior to the Eclipse of December 22 , 1870 .
On that occasion Professor Pickering employed an arrangement constructed on the principle of Bunsen 's photometer .
It consisted of a box 9 inches wide , 18 inches high , and 6 feet long , within which a standard candle could be moved backwards and forwards by means of a rod .
One end of the box was covered with a piece of thin white paper , on which was a greased spot about half an inch in diameter .
The box was adjusted so that the rays from the corona were normal to the plane of the paper , and the lighted candle was moved backwards and forwards within the box until the grease-spot was no longer visible .
From a number of observations made during the period of totality of this eclipse , Mr. Waldo 0 .
Boss , acting under Mr. Pickering 's direction , found that the standard candle had to be placed at distances varying from 14'4 to 21 inches from the paper before the visibility of the greased spot was reduced to a minimum .
( ' U.S. Coast Survey Reports , ' 1870 , p. 172 .
) The observations were much interrupted by clouds , and are also probably affected by irregularities in the rate of the burning of the candle .
The mean of all the readings was 18'5 inches : hence the light of the corona in 1870 was apparently equal to 0*42 of a standard candle at a distance of 1 foot .
A precisely similar arrangement was used by Dr. J. C. Smith during the Solar Eclipse of July 29 , 1878 .
Dr. Smith , observing at Virginia City , Montana , U.S. , found from eight observations that the candle had to be placed at a distance of 51J inches from the screen before the minimum of visibility of the greased spot was obtained .
During the same eclipse , Professor John W. Langley made observations on the intensity of the coronal light as seen from the summit of Pike 's Peak , Colorado , by means of a photometric arrangement suggested by Professor S. P. Langley , and intended to measure the relative distribution of light in the corona .
The idea was , first , to draw an outline of the corona ; second , to measure the light of the corona at 3 A 2 9.11.89 .
several points along a solar radius extended to the outer limits of visibility ; and third , to draw one or more iso-photal lines which should give the contour of the corona for varying degrees of illuminating power .
The method was to project the image of the corona upon the screen of a Bunsen 's photometer in which glass ground to slight opacity replaced the greased paper ; and instead of one translucent spot there was a large number , in order that several hundred samples of coronal light taken from different portions of its surface might be observed simultaneously , and compared with the standard light by drawing iso-photal contour lines .
In the apparatus as finally arranged the screen consisted of a piece of perforated cardboard covered by a sheet of oiled paper .
A number of translucent spots separated by opaque interspaces was thus obtained , the spots being sufficiently close together to allow the projected image to be seen with but little loss of distinctness .
The light from the corona was reflected from a heliostat and transmitted through a photographic lens of long focus , the aperture of which could be diminished , if required , by means of a cat's-eye diaphragm , and passed down a dark chamber about 41 feet in length , at the end of which was a box carrying the screen and standard candles .
Within the box was a railway , on which ran a wagon mounted on brass wTheels and bearing the lighted candle , the distance of which from the screen was recorded on a wooden rod placed immediately in front of the observer .
The whole apparatus stood on four piers , and it was so arranged that any vibration caused by wind should not be communicated to the lens producing the coronal image .
The focal length of the lens .
was 11'27 metres ; and the diameter of the solar focal image was '104 metre .
The corona as actually observed was excessively faint , and could only be seen to an extent of less than 1 ' from the Moon 's edge .
The coronal light was so feeble that it was found impossible to measure its intensity at several points along an extended radius .
From his observations Professor Langley concludes that the light from the corona at 1 ' from the limb of the Moon was equal to that of the standard candle at a distance of 1 metre .
From the photometric value of the candle as compared with diffused sunlight , Langley further found that the intensity of the coronal light about 1 ' from the limb of the Moon was '0000132 of that of mean sunlight ; at 3 ' from the limb it was '0000000244 .
Assuming the intensity of mean sunlight to be 500,000 times greater than that of moonlight , the corona at 1 ' from the Moon 's limb was six times the intrinsic brightness of the Moon ; at S ' it was but one-tenth the intrinsic brightness of the Moon .
( Professor S. P. Langley 's Report , p. 211 , ' Washington Observations ' for 1876 , Appendix III .
) The photometric observations made during the 1878 Eclipse have also been discussed by Professor W. Harkness , of the United States Naval Observatory ( .
cit. , p. 386 ) .
Combining the observations , he concludes that the total light of the corona was *072 of that of a standard candle at 1 foot distance , or 3'8 times that of the lull Moon , or \#166 ; 0000069 of that of the Sun .
It further appears from the photographs that the coronal light varied inversely as the square of the distance from the Sun 's limb .
INTENSITY OF CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
365 Probably the brightest part of the corona was about 15 times brighter than the surface of the full Moon , or 37,000 times fainter than the surface of the Sun .
It would further seem that the corona of December 22 , 1870 , was 7\ times brighter than that of July 29 , 1878 .
Description of Methods Adopted during the Eclipse of August 28-29 , 1886 .
The instruments used by us for the measurement of the coronal light on this occasion were three in number .
The first was constructed to measure the comparative brightness of the corona at different distances from the Moon 's limb .
The second was designed to measure the total brightness of the corona , excluding as far as possible the sky effect .
The third was intended to measure the brightness of the corona , together with the brightness of the sky in the direction of the eclipsed Sun .
In a paper by one of us , in conjunction with General Festing , * it was shown that light of any colour can be measured for luminosity in terms of light of any other colour , provided always that the last-named light can be rapidly altered in intensity , so that at one time it is evidently below the intensity of the light to be compared , and immediately afterwards that it is evidently above it .
The oscillations of the intensity , if then gradually diminished , finally give the value of the coloured light in terms of the luminosity of the light of which the intensity is rapidly changed . .
In a more recent papert it has been shown that the light of a glow lamp may be used for measuring the intensity of any other light by making a rapid change in the resistance of the circuit .
In the photometric measures which are now to be described this plan was adopted for ascertaining the value of the coronal light in terms of a Siemens unit .
Before continuing the description it may be well to note that the Siemens unit is very nearly 0'8 of a standard candle .
This unit has the advantages that the area of the burner is fixed ; that the flame used in the photometric measures can always be made of exactly the same height ; that the thickness and shape of the flame are practically invariable ; that the material producing the flame can be obtained in commerce ; and that any slight impurity in it has no practical effect on the value of the light emitted .
Neither the effect of the temperature at the time of trial nor the variation due to difference in barometric pressure has been thoroughly tested , but there are presumably but slight differences due to these causes .
At all events , there is nothing to prevent its employment for the object we had in view .
One experiment may , however , be quoted as regards the luminosity of the flame when the temperature was varied some 20 ' .
The lamp was carefully adjusted so that the tip of the flame just touched the gauge supplied with the instrument , and its value taken against the glow lamp , which was kept at a bright yellow heat by a current passing through it .
A large photograph of the flame was also taken .
The * 1 Phil. Trans. , ' 1886 , " Colour Photometry , " Abney and Festing .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , 1887 , Abney and Festtng .
36G CAPTAIN W. I)E W. ABNEY AND DR , T. E. THORPE ON PHOTOMETRIC lamp was then warmed from 55 ' to 75 ' ; the flame became longer , but when turned down to the height of the gauge the same value was obtained against the glow lamp as before within 2 per cent. Another photograph was taken of the flame from the same position , and the two compared .
The flames in both cases were equal in dimensions .
In the paper last referred to it was also shown that either the Bunsen or the Bumford method of photometry could be adopted .
The method of Bumford is undoubtedly better than that of Bunsen when the lights are very different in colour , as in the latter method there is a certain thickness of translucent material through which both lights have to pass , and ouly after such passage can equality of illumination be estimated ; and if the paper employed for the screen is coloured in any degree , this must of necessity affect the results .
The light of the corona and that of the glow lamp are very different in colour , the former being stronger in the blue end of the spectrum than the latter .
It must be recollected that the greatest luminosity is in the yellow of the spectrum in both cases , and , though the blue end of the spectrum alters the hue , it has very small effect on the luminosity .
This being the case , it was thought that no error of any magnitude would be introduced by adopting the Bunsen plan , since the brightest part of the two spectra would be compared with one another .
It was evidently impracticable to adopt the Bumford method in the apparatus in which the intensity of different points in the corona had to be measured .
For this purpose a telescope by Simms , lent by the Astronomer Boyal , was employed .
The object glass had a focal length of 78 inches and an aperture of 6 inches , thus forming an image of the Moon *76 inch in diameter .
The image was received on a circular white screen contained in a photometric box and placed exactly in the focus of the object glass .
In the centre of the screen was traced a circle of the diameter of the image of the Moon , and during the observation the Moon 's disc was made to fall exactly within the circle .
As the telescope was equatorially mounted with clockwork , the image was kept stationary within the circle .
The screen was of Bives ' paper of medium thickness , and round the pencil-circle a series of small grease spots about .S\#166 ; of an inch in diameter had been made .
There was some difficulty in preparing these small grease spots , but a method was eventually devised which answered admirably .
Faint pencil lines were drawn radially from the centre of the circle , and the places where each spot was to be produced were marked with a dot .
White blotting paper was soaked in spermaceti , any excess being avoided .
Small discs , inch , were punched out , and these discs were put centrally on the dots .
Blotting paper was next placed over them when in position , and a hot flat-iron was passed over them .
The blotting paper and the small discs were then removed , and clean blotting paper and the flat-iron again applied to remove any slight excess of spermaceti .
The screen now presented the appearance shown in fig. 1 .
Several screens were made and tested .
The test consisted in causing a glow lamp on one side of the screen to balance a glow lamp placed at the same distance on the other side by means of a variable resistance in the circuit .
The spots , if correctly INTENSITY OF CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
367 made , become invisible at the same time .
The majority of screens fulfilled this condition , and the best as regards uniformity of size of spot and freedom from grain in the paper were selected for use .
The screen , as will be seen from the figure , was mounted in a circular frame , which could be rotated so as to bring the spots into any desired angular position .
It could be removed at pleasure by releasing it from the buttons which held it in position .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
B To hold the screen a box was constructed , as shown in fig. 2 .
It was made as light as possible , panels of card ( as at P , P ) being used instead of wood when practicable .
The glow lamp to be employed was fixed in a holder inside the box ; this could move along the slot A , and be fixed by a thumbscrew , H , in any desired position .
( It may here be remarked that the plane of the filament was at right angles to the axis of the tube .
) At the end H was an aperture into which the sliding tube of the telescope fitted , at D was a door , which could be opened to adjust the lamp .
I he screen shown in fig. 1 was inserted at S , and held in position by means of buttons .
At 0 was an opening , which was covered by a black velvet bag into which the head of the obseivei was inserted during the time of observation .
As before said , the image of the Moon was accurately focussed on the screen inserted at S , and was viewed through the opening at O. The wires to the lamp passed through the slot ; the carbon-resistance ( fig. 3 ) and also the galvanometer should have been introduced into the circuit .
Fig. 3 .
The carbon-resistance used was one supplied by Mr. Varley , and the description is taken from a paper already referred to .
It consisted of a series of pieces of carbonised cloth , more or less in contact .
The carbonised cloth is represented by C ( fig. 3 ) , which fills the whole length from A to D when loosely packed .
At B is a plate to which T3 is attached , and which can be separated more or less from a fixed metal plate to which Tj is connected by the arm E , which is moved by the screw Sx .
At A is an insulated block , carrying another plate to which T3 is attached , and A can be carried backwards or forwards by means of the screw S3 .
For some purposes the main current can be brought in at T3 , and leads be taken from T3 and Tx\gt ; thus forming part of a Wheatstone bridge .
During the eclipse the terminals T2 and T3 were used .
Fig. 4 .
The connections were made as shown in fig. 4 .
The current from 10 cells of a carefully made up Grove battery , B , was passed through the lamp L. A shunt , including the galvanometer , G , and the resistance , B , was made .
The brightness of the lamp was thus increased by adding more resistance to the shunt .
Consequently , in the measures made , the highest readings of the galvanometer showed the lowest intensity of light .
It would have been better had the ordinary plan of putting the galvanometer and resistance in the main circuit been adopted , but when once the value of INTENSITY OF CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
369 the lamp illumination by the plan actually employed had been ascertained for varying resistances it became a matter of no moment .
The galvanometer used in this case was one of Thomson 's ammeters , made more sensitive by fixing a permanent magnet alongside the usual magnet , so as partially to neutralise its magnetism .
By this plan a very small change in current gave a large deflection , or at all events a deflection which was readable .
By reproducing these deflections under exactly similar conditions the illuminating value of the lamp could be measured in the ordinary way .
The second instrument , which we shall call the integrating box , for measuring the total coronal light with as little light from the sky as possible , was constructed on the same principles .
It consisted merely of a long deal box coated internally with lampblack , in which a screen with a large grease spot was inserted at S. There was a Fig. 5 .
o / similar slot for the lamp as in the other instrument .
The end A was , however , open , and during the eclipse it was placed at such an angle that the axis of the tube pointed to the centre of the Moon .
The aperture , O , for making the observations was in this case also covered with a black velvet cloth , under which the head of the observer was placed .
The third piece of apparatus consisted of an ordinary Bunsen bar photometer , 60 inches in length , with movable disc , made by Messrs. Alex .
Weight and Co. , of Westminster .
As originally arranged , it was fitted for two standard candles ; for the purpose of the eclipse observations , these were replaced by a small glow lamp .
As the plan of the photometric work contemplated by us depended for its execution upon such assistance as we were able to get out at Grenada , it was arranged that we should take advantage of the kind offer of service made by Captain Archek and the officers of H.M.S. " Fantome , " which had been told off to assist the expedition , and make the observations at some spot in convenient proximity to the anchorage of that vessel .
As the latter end of August falls during the hurricane season in the West Indies , it was desirable to moor the " Fantbme " in the most secure anchorage in the island , viz. , in Clerk 's Court Bay , which is at the south end of Grenada .
It appeared from the charts that a suitable station might be found on the southern end of Caliveny Island , distant about lj mile from the spot which would be made use of as the anchorage .
Caliveny Island was accordingly included in the list of stations provisionally selected by the Eclipse Committee of the Boyal Society , and submitted to the Governor of Grenada .
Mr. Sendall and Captain Hughes were kind enough to visit the spot , and they reported that a fairly good station might be obtained on the extreme end of the island , but that difficulties might be experienced in landing the apparatus .
Captain Archer deemed it prudent , therefore , to make a preliminary survey of the MDCCCLXXXIX.------A .
3 B place before the " Fantbme " left St. George .
No landing was practicable on the leeward side of the island , and , although two or three places were met with on the other side , they could only be counted upon during fine weather .
Moreover , as the greater part of the island is covered with dense " bush , " the transport of the instruments to and from the station would be very laborious and tedious .
There was the further difficulty that it was well nigh impossible to make one 's way through the tangle of bush at night , when much of the work of adjustment of the equatorial would have to be done .
And , lastly , there was the possibility , even if the instruments were successfully set up , that the noise of the surf and the driving spray in bad weather might seriously interfere with the work of observation .
For these reasons we decided to abandon the Caliveny site , and , after a careful examination of the neighbourhood , we selected a station near a little creek on Hog Island , to the westward of the bay .
The position was fairly good ; during dry weather it was indeed all that could be desired .
The ground was about 10 to 15 feet above the sea level , and was close to a shelving , sandy beach , readily accessible and generally free from swell .
In bad weather , another landing could be obtained round a point to the north , with only a few hundred yards of bush to be got through .
The position had a good eastern horizon , the sun rising behind the lowland running out to Point Egmont , which here subtended an angle of less than 1 ' .
Its position , as taken off the Admiralty Chart , was lat. 12 ' O ' 4 " N. , long .
61 ' 43 ' 45 " W. The " Fantbme " left St. George on the 17th August , and came into Clerk 's Court Bay in the afternoon of the same day .
All the apparatus was safely got to shore before nightfall , and the positions for the base of the equatorial and for the tents of the party undertaking the integrating work were decided upon .
Early next morning the erection of the wooden hut to shelter the equatorial was begun , and a concrete base for the stand made upon the rock , which was found at a depth of a few inches below the surface of the soil .
Before the surface of the cement was finally set it was carefully levelled , the base put into position , and the mounting of the telescope proceeded with .
The integrating apparatus was placed in a small marquee tent , a few yards to the north of the hut .
Small slabs of concrete were also made in convenient situations , to carry the galvanometers , \amp ; c. As the photometer box attached to the equatorial added considerably to the length of the apparatus , it was necessary that the hut should be of somewhat larger dimensions than that generally adopted by the rest of the expedition ; otherwise it was very much of the pattern of that which the Governor had caused to be constructed prior to our arrival at St. George , and which answered admirably in all respects .
Bound the hut and tents a deep trench was cut , with an outfall leading down the slope towards the sea to carry off the rain-water collected by the roofs .
Our chief difficulties , indeed , were due to the frequent rains and constant humidity .
At times the ground became worked into a sort of quagmire .
By the 19th everything was in fair adjustment , and during the subsequent ten days the various members of the party were assiduously practised on INTENSITY OF CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
371 all available occasions in their duties .
The driving clock of the equatorial gave trouble in the outset , but it was eventually got into order , and on the day of the eclipse , and for some days previously , ran sufficiently well .
The constant dampness of the ground , and consequent absence of dust , probably contributed to its good behaviour .
The duration of the total phase of the eclipse at Hog Island was about 230 seconds .
We found that a simple and sufficiently accurate method of informing the party as to how this time was speeding , and of the amount of time still left at intervals of 15 seconds before the end of totality , could be obtained by observations made with a 14-second sand-glass , such as is employed on shipboard in heaving the log .
The arrangement of the party was as follows :\#151 ; Integrating box ... .
Lieutenant Angus Douglas .
Galvanometer ... ... ... ... ..Mr .
Webb .
Bar photometer ... .
Lieutenant Bairnsfather .
Recorder ... ... ... ... ... ... Mr. Robert Jackson .
These instruments were placed close together in a small marquee .
Each observer had in addition a man to charge and connect up a battery of Grove cells for the glow lamps .
Equatorial photometer . .
Professor T. E. Thorpe .
Galvanometer ... ... ... ... ..Mr .
H. A. Lawrance .
Disc observations ... .
Captain Archer .
On the day before the eclipse the following instructions were issued to the observers in charge of the integrating apparatus :\#151 ; Instructions to Lieutenant Douglas .
( Box .
) 1 .
The eclipse begins at 6hr .
12m .
L.M.T. Totality commences at 7hr .
10m .
, and lasts about 230 seconds .
2 .
It is desirable that on the morning of the eclipse you should be ashore not later than 6 a.m. ( It is assumed that your integrating box , leads to galvanometer , glow lamp , and resistance apparatus are left in position over night .
) Ascertain that the box is in proper azimuth , and test by the .
Abney level that the inclination is about 19 ' .
3 .
See that the connections to the glow lamp are properly made , and that the galvanometer is levelled on the cement foundation and is in adjustment .
4 .
Give instructions to have a battery of 7 cells in readiness for you , not later than 6.30 : 6 cells to be connected up , the seventh to be reserved in case of accidents .
See that you have actually 6 cells connected up before you begin .
3 b 2 5 .
At 6.30 connect up all leads , see that your lamp works properly , and that the intensity of the light responds to the screw of the resistance apparatus .
6 .
The back edge of the wooden piece carrying the lamp may be conveniently placed at Division 50 of the graduated scale .
This , with the resistance apparatus open , will probably give you more light than you require .
If at the moment of totality , and with the lamp full on , the coronal light is greater than that of the glow lamp , push up the lamp to Division 30 .
If you have occasion to move the lamp from 50 ( which is very improbable ) , be very careful to note the particular distance from the screen at which you place it .
7 .
At 7'0 request Mr. Webb and the man who records his readings to take up their stations at the cement slab .
Take up your own position at the integrating box .
Mr. Webb 's position to be such that he readily hears your command to read .
8 .
As the light decreases just before totality , that is between 7.0 and 7.10 , turn the light up or down with the screw , so as to follow the decrease , so that after the moment that totality begins you may be able to begin your comparisons with the least possible delay .
9 .
Intimation that totality has begun will be given to the party by Quartermaster Follett , who will call out 230 .
At intervals of 15 seconds he will call out the number of seconds still to elapse before totality ends .
10 .
When you have made your adjustment by the screw as carefuliy as you can , call out " read " to Mr. Webb ; do not turn the screw again until you hear him give his reading to the man who records .
Again work the screw , make a second adjustment , and again call out " read , " and again wait until Mr. Webb has given his reading before you begin again .
If this point is not attended to , the needle will be in such rapid oscillation that it will be impossible to get an accurate galvanometer reading .
11 .
Experience shows that 12 readings may be taken in 100 seconds , but it is not advisable that you should attempt to make more than 12 comparisons during " totality .
" Recollect that a few readings carefully and deliberately done are worth far more than a large number made hurriedly .
Do not touch the position of your lamp at the end of your observations.* 12 .
Be careful not to fatigue your eye by looking too much at the Sun during the first stage of the eclipse .
Insist that all talking ceases after 7 .
Instructions to Lieutenant Bairnsfather .
( Photometer .
) 1 .
The eclipse begins at 6hr .
12m .
; totality commences at about 7hr .
10m .
, and lasts about 230 seconds .
2 .
It is desirable that you should be ashore not later than 6 a.m. ( It is assumed that your photometer bar .
leads to galvanometer and to glow lamp , stand for galvano* This instruction was given in order that the position of the lamp might be verified after the observations were concluded .
INTENSITY OF CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
373 meter , \amp ; c. , are left in position on Saturday evening .
) Ascertain that your photometer is in the proper azimuth ; test by the Abney level that its inclination is about 19 ' .
Fasten the front rod securely down , so that on running the lantern backwards and forwards it works smoothly and without shaking the bar unduly .
3 .
See that the connections to the glow lamp are properly made ; next see that the galvanometer is levelled and in adjustment .
4 .
Give instructions that a battery of 7 cells should be in readiness for you not later than 6.30 .
Only 6 cells are to be connected up , the seventh to be in reserve in case of accident .
5 .
At 6.30 connect up all leads , see that your lamp works properly , and take a reading of your galvanometer .
Go round to the back of your tent and see that you have actually 6 cells connected up .
6 .
At 7.0 request Mr. Jackson to take up his station at the end of your table , and get ready to record .
Go round to the galvanometer again and carefully note the reading of the needle , which Mr. Jackson is to record .
At 7.5 take up your position at the photometer bar .
7 .
As the light wanes follow up with the lantern , so as to get it into position with the least possible delay after the moment totality begins .
8 .
The preliminary drill has shown that 12 sets of double readings may be taken during the duration of totality .
Do not , however , aim at doing more than 7 or 8 sets ( in all 14 or 16 readings ) .
A few readings carefully and deliberately done are worth far more than a large number taken very hurriedly .
9 .
When you have taken your last reading let the lantern remain as you placed it for the reading , in order that after the eclipse its position may be verified .
Be careful to note on which side the middle point of the photometer bar the readings are taken .
10 .
There will probably be sufficient light during totality to see readily the numbers on the photometer bar ; but , in case you have difficulty , it will be advisable to have a lighted lantern in readiness under your table .
11 .
At the end of totality , and therefore at the conclusion of your readings , again note the position of the galvanometer needle and record the deflection .
12 .
Be careful not to fatigue your eye by looking too much at the Sun during the first stage of the eclipse .
All talking to cease at 7.0 .
Observations on the Day of the Eclipse .
The general character of the weather , as noted during the ten days prior to the date of the eclipse , rendered it very doubtful whether any photometric observations would be at all possible at the time of totality .
The following Table will serve to indicate the condition of the sky at about the hour of the eclipse on successive days from August 17th to the 28th .
The amount of cloud is given on the scale from 0 to 10 .
Aug. yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy 17 Cloud .
5 18 3 19 3 20 2 21 4 22 4-5 23 5 24 5-6 25 GO 1 SC 26 6-7 27 1 00 28 7-8 Sun seen through haze .
Clouded at times .
Sun unclouded at time of totality .
\gt ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; \gt ; } \gt ; \gt ; Sun seen through thin cloud .
Sun seen through haze .
Much rain in night .
yy yy yy Sun frequently clouded .
Sun clouded over ; much rain at times .
Sun seen through faint clouds .
Dense clouds .
No Sun ; much rain at times .
Hazy at time of totality .
Strong east wind with showers at times .
The observing party left the " Fantome " shortly before daybreak on the morning of the eclipse , and in a short time everything was in readiness for the observations .
The sky was almost completely clouded over .
A light breeze from the E.S.E. drove up sluggishly moving cumuli in great detached masses , some as high as 40 ' above the horizon , i.e. , double the height at which the Sun would be at time of totality .
The high land of Grenada was completely enveloped in cloud , and heavy rain was falling in the middle and over the western slopes of the island .
Over the low land of Point Fort Jeudy , across the bay , behind which the Sun would come up , was a mass of cumuli , with flattened bases , seemingly motionless .
At 6.15 there was a slight shower of rain , and at 6.18 the partially eclipsed Sun was seen for a few seconds .
In spite of the fact that the Solar disc was being rapidly obscured , the clouds were gradually breaking up into detached masses .
By about 6.40 the greater portion of them had drifted away to the North .
The equatorial was then put on the Sun , and the gradually diminishing crescent observed by reflection from the photometric screen .
The clock went fairly well , and no adjustment was necessary to keep the limb in contact with the pencilled line of the image on the screen ; indeed at no time during the totality was the edge separated from the circle by more than the thickness of the pencil line itself .
The shadow of the Moon was plainly visible on the white disc .
The moment of totality was 7hr .
10m .
14.6s .
( L.M.T. ) , the calculated time as determined by interpolation from the data furnished by Mr. Hind for Caliveny and Point Salene , was 7hr .
10m .
18s .
With respect to the observation , it may be stated that it was determined by means of a chronometer , the error and rate of which had been ascertained from observations of double altitudes made during the preceding 10 days by Captain Archer .
After a few moments ' observation of the corona , the structure of which was admirably pictured on the white screen in the equatorial , the photometric comparisons were begun in the order previously fixed upon .
INTENSITY OF CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
375 In all , 15 comparisons were made out of the 16 originally intended .
At about 60 seconds from the calculated end of totality , a dark cloud swept over the corona , rendering all further observation impossible .
Reduction of the Observations .
The lamp used in the equatorial photometer had the values given in Table I. in Siemens units , reduced to a distance of 1 foot from the screen .
Table I. Measures of potential .
Intensity of light reduced to 1 foot from screen .
24 .005 23 .007 22 .010 21 .0145 20 .020 19 .027 18 .036 17 .050 16 .066 15 .089 The lamp was 21'25 inches from the screen during the eclipse ; hence the real values of the lamp were higher , but , as it is an inconvenient distance at which to compare the values obtained by the different instruments , an uniform distance of 12 inches from the screen has been adopted .
The same remark applies to the lamp used by Lieutenant Douglas .
The measures of potential in intensity of light are given in Table II .
Table II .
Measures of potential .
Intensity of light reduced to 1 foot from screen .
10-0 .0024 9-0 .0036 8-0 .0040 7-5 .0055 7-0 .0074 6-5 .0104 6*0 .0135 5-5 .0183 5*0 .0258 4-5 .0340 During the eclipse this lamp was really 21'6 inches from the screen , and , as in the former case , the actual values of the light were higher .
The numbers in the above tables are graphically represented in the following curves , from which the results of the observations were measured .
Table III .
gives the value in light of the readings on the equatorial photometer .
The numbers of the grease spots in Column I. correspond with the order in which they were read .
Column II .
gives the calculated distance of each spot from the Sun 's centre in terms of the Solar diameter .
Column III .
gives the readings on the voltameter ; and Column IV .
the corresponding value of the light in Siemens units .
Column V. gives the approximate time in seconds after the beginning of totality when the several readings were made .
INTENSITY OF CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
377 Table III.\#151 ; Readings on the Equatorial Photometer reduced to the Values of Light Intensity .
L II .
III .
IV .
y. 1 1-55 15-8 .070 seconds .
10 2 2-66 18*3 .033 20 3 3-66 20-3 .019 30 4 1-61 16*5 .058 40 5 2-55 17-5 .043 50 6 344 19-4 .024 60 7 1-25 19-8 .021 70 8 216 21-4 .012 80 9 2*60 24-0 .005 90 10 111 18-0 .036 100 11 216 21-5 .013 110 12 3-16 23-5 .005 120 ]3 216 23*0 .007 130 14 2-33 23*5 .005 140 15 2-33 23-5 .005 150 Fig. 6 shows the position of the several spots as seen on the photometer screen .
The arrow and shaded segments show the apparent direction of the Moon 's path across the Solar disc .
Fig. 6 .
The numbers correspond with the order in which the readings were made .
Table IV .
gives the value of Lieutenant Douglas 's readings , and Table V. those of Lieutenant Bairnsfather .
It must be remembered that Lieutenant Douglas s instrument measured the total light from the corona with only a small portion of the light from the sky , whereas the bar photometer as used by Lieutenant Bairnsfather measured the light from the corona together with that from a large portion of the MDCCCLXXXIX.\#151 ; A. 3 C sky .
Hence the readings on the bar photometer are necessarily higher than those obtained by the integrating box .
Table IY.\#151 ; Readings on the Integrating Box reduced to Values of Light Intensity .
Voltameter readings .
Value of light at 1 foot from screen in Siemens units .
Approximate time when readings were made from beginning of totality .
5-4 .0197 15 6*2 .0122 30 5-9 .0142 45 7*0 .0075 60 6-8 .0085 75 7'1 .0070 90 7-3 .0065 105 7-3 .0065 120 77 .0054 135 7-8 .0051 150 8-3 .0045 165 8-8 .0040 180 8-9 .0035 195 9-3 .0030 210 9-4 .0027 215 9-4 .0027 220 Table V.\#151 ; Readings on the Bar Photometer reduced to Values of Light Intensity .
Value of the lamp = 0Y33 unit .
Distance of lamp from screen in inches .
Equivalent value in Siemens unit at 1 foot .
Approximate time of reading .
335 .0160 50 34-4 .0152 70 36-2 .0137 90 39'1 .011 % no 39-6 .0115 130 44-1 .0093 150 46'4 .0084 170 47-8 .0079 190 48-0 .0078 210 47-8 .0079 220 48-5 .0077 1 230 1 It will be noticed that Lieutenant Bairnsfather 's first reading was made when 50 seconds of the totality had passed .
The delay was due to the circumstance that it was found necessary to diminish the number of cells connected up after totality had begun , and hence a new reading of the galvanometer was needed before the observations could be commenced .
The actual time of beginning could only be very approxiINTENSITY OF CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
379 mately known , but .
from trials made subsequently it is probably accurate to within 5 or 6 seconds .
It will also be observed that both Lieutenant Douglas and Lieutenant Bairns-father continued to read after the Moon and corona were actually obscured by cloud .
Of course neither of the observers was able to notice the fact of the obscuration without looking up from his instrument .
The passage of the cloud was , however , readily noticed on the screen of the equatorial photometer , and the time of obscuration during the phase of totality was noted .
It occurred , as already stated , at about 1 minute from the calculated end of totality .
The observations of all these observers show in the clearest manner that the results are affected by haze after the first 60 or 70 seconds of totality .
Thus , the first six readings on the equatorial photometer are fairly concordant , but after 1 minute had elapsed the light intensities begin to decrease rapidly .
Thus , spots 7 and 10 , which were considerably nearer to the limb than spots 1 and 4 , show a considerably less intensity , and the differences are far greater than could be accounted for by any possible variation of local intensity in coronal light.* Lieutenant Douglas 's readings also show a sudden drop at about 60 seconds from the beginning of totality , and they continue to decrease steadily and in precisely the same manner as those of Lieutenant Bairnsfather .
This result is indeed what might have been anticipated .
It must be remembered that the air was practically saturated with moisture ; a slight shower had fallen even a few minutes before totality , and the lowering of the temperature consequent on the obscuration of the Solar disc would inevitably cause the gradual precipitation of moisture from air already charged to saturation .
If we assume , therefore , that we are justified in regarding the first six observations made with the equatorial photometer as valid , we obtain the following curve as showing the photometric intensity of coronal light at varying distances from the Sun 's limb expressed in terms of Solar semi-diameters from Sun centre .
* The photographs show that no such variations in local intensity were present .
3 c 2 Fig. 7 .
\#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; m \#166 ; \#166 ; m \#166 ; \#166 ; HI \#166 ; \#166 ; m IE \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; B \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; a \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; m \#166 ; \#166 ; Hj \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; Curve showing relation between photometric intensity of coronal light and distance of corona from Sun 's limb .
It will be quite obvious , from the character of this curve , that the diminution in intensity does not vary according to the law of inverse squares .
To show the degree of departure we have calculated the intensity , on the basis of the law , at several points and compared them with the values taken from the curve at the same points .
Distances in Solar semi-diameters .
Photometric intensity .
Observed .
Law of inverse squares .
1-6 .066 .066 20 .053 .042 2-4 .043 .029 2-8 .034 .022 82 .026 .016 36 .021 .013 INTENSITY OF CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
381 In comparing the observations of Lieutenant Douglas and Lieutenant Bairns-father with those made during the 1878 Eclipse it must be remembered that the conditions of observation on the two occasions were widely different .
The observations in the West Indies were made at the sea-level , in a perfectly humid atmosphere , and with the Sun at no greater altitude than 19 ' .
Professor J. W. Langley observed from the summit of Pike 's Peak , which is 14,100 feet above the sea , in a relatively dry atmosphere , and with the Sun at an altitude of 39 ' .
Dr. J. C. Smith 's position at Virginia City , Montana , was about 6,000 feet above the sea-level , and the Sun 's altitude at the time of observation was about 44 ' .
If we have regard then to the extinction of the coronal light in the Earth 's atmosphere , it follows , cceteris paribus , that the observations during the 1886 Eclipse should show a much lower photometric intensity than those of 1878 , even if the intrinsic brightness of the corona was the same on the two occasions .
It will be a matter of remark that the brightness of the corona at the various points measured is very inferior to that of the Moon 's surface .
The value of the light from the full Moon has been variously estimated , but it is not an unfair estimate to take it as *02 of a candle at 1 foot distance .
Supposing the whole surface of the Moon to be of equal brightness , the brightness of the Moon 's image on the photometric screen used in the equatorial telescope compared with moonlight itself would have been very closely 60 X *02 candle , or 1*2 candles .
No matter what part of the image fell on the grease spots , it would have required this illumination to have made the grease spots disappear .
If we take the highest reading of the corona measured , we find that it is *07 of a Siemens unit , or about '06 candle .
It thus appears that the brightness of the brightest measured part of the corona ( 1'55 Solar semi-diameters ) was 200 times less bright than that of the surface of the Moon , whilst the furthest spot at 3*66 Solar semi-diameters , having a value of '019 Siemens unit , or *015 candle , was only -g^o of the brightness .
The highest value of the coronal light , measured in the ordinary photometer , was about '02 , or equivalent to that of the full Moon .
It is evident therefore that , even when taking into account the greater angular area which the corona occupied , the brightness of the corona was very much greater close to the limb than elsewhere .
The photographs which were taken show this fact .
A dense image of the Moon might be secured on plates such as were used at the eclipse in the -^th of a second .
The photographs which were taken of the corona varied in exposure from half a second to 100 seconds .
Even with the first named exposure the corona close to the limb was much over exposed , showing the intense brightness of that part , whilst the image of the highest part of the corona measured was hardly visible .
Owing to the variable quantities of cloud during totality , it would be unfair to try to make any comparison between the brightness of the corona at the poles and at the equator , though , had no cloud intervened , the arrangements adopted would have enabled such to be done .
Nor is it worth while to endeavour to establish any law for the decrease of brightness of the corona in terms of its distance from the limb .
We have , however , in the measures given , obtained results which will be of use in comparing the brightness of the corona on this occasion with that of other future eclipses ; and we believe that measurements of the brightness obtained by the plan adopted , or by photography , will become a necessary observation in determining what connection , if any , the Sunspot periods have with the coronal phenomena .
We have to express our acknowledgments to Mr. H. A. Lawrance for the very ready and efficient aid which he rendered in mounting the equatorial , and in assisting in making the photometric measurements .
To Captain Archer and his officers , Lieutenants Douglas and Bairnsfather , we are also greatly indebted for the lively and eminently practical interest which they manifested in the work of the expedition generally , and especially for their zealous co-operation in the particular observations which had been entrusted to us .
Indeed , the entire crew of the " Fantbme " laboured in the most willing and cheerful manner , often under circumstances of considerable personal discomfort , to promote the success of the expedition in every possible way .
Appendix .
Observations made by Newcomb 's Method on the Visibility of Extension of the Coronal Streamers at Hog Island , Grenada , by Commander Archer , R.N. 1 .
A 9-inch disc was erected on a pole fastened to the N.W. corner of the observatory , much in the manner suggested in the instructions ; the distance of the eye-piece from a plumb-line hanging under the centre of the disc frame was exactly 40 feet .
2 .
As a means of measuring the length of the streamers of the corona , I had fitted two copper circles concentric with the disc , supported on a light iron cross ; the diameter of the inner circle was disc diameter ( 13^ inches ) , that of the outer one 2 disc diameters ( 18 inches ) .
3 .
In order to localise the position of the streamers , I decided to look upon the disc as a compass card , with the North point vertically upwards ; the arms of the iron cross therefore indicated the cardinal points .
4 .
The iron crossbar which carried the eye-piece I had lengthened to 18 inches , in order to increase the limits of adjustment , and also to admit of the Sun being observed when at the proper altitude ( 18 ' 48 ' ) on several preceding days ; owing to this circumstance , I feel considerable confidence in the Sun 's having been nearly concentric with the disc at the beginning of totality , as on two previous days I timed the exact moment when the Sun 's centre was behind the centre of the disc , and found the calculated altitudes at the time were between 18 ' 48 ' and 18 ' 49 ' , the calculated altitude at commencement of totality being 18 ' 47 ' 51 " .
The position of the eye-piece was adjusted on the previous day , and required no further alteration .
INTENSITY O CORONAL LIGHT DURING THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF 1886 .
383 5 .
I found the concentric wire circles of great advantage , as the streamers , when judged by eye alone , appeared to be much longer than they really were ; and , had it not been for this device , I feel sure I should have over-estimated the distance to which they extended .
60 , , 30 ' .
\lt ; 0 | 50 40 | 20 10 | 6 .
Half an hour before the commencement of totality I sat down in the shade , and a quarter of an hour before I had my eyes bandaged with a double thickness of black cloth ; on the signal being given , I removed the bandage and observed through the eye-hole a narrow fringe of very bright white light all round the wooden disc , with marked extensions to the N.E. and N.W. , which both just reached the outer wire , though the outer portion was very faint .
The N.W. one was rather forked , the N.E. one pointed .
To N.N.W. was a fainter thin extension , which reached to the first wire ; to S.E. was a similar one , also reaching to the first wire ; and to S.W. ' was a very small double one , hardly reaching half way to the first wire .
7 .
I then looked through a ship 's telescope I had on a stand near me , and I observed red prominences under the N.W. , N.N.W. , and S.E. extensions , and also some prominences at North .
To N.W. was a long tongue of flame about the colour of a candle flame , which appeared to be disconnected from the Sun 's limb , and to extend to about 1 O ' from the limb ; this estimation was made by aid of the aforementioned wires .
8 .
On a cloud passing over towards the end of totality I looked at the stars overhead , but there were so many in sight that I could not pick out what they were ; I should say that , judging by the contrasts between their brightness , some of them must have been of the third or fourth magnitude .
9 .
At the eye-hole a linear inch on the disc subtended an angle of 68 minutes , * thus , supposing the Sun were concentric with the disc at the beginning of totality , the streamers to the N.W. and N.E. would be about 45 ' from the Sun 's limb , those to N.N.W. and S.E. about 30 ' , that to S.W. about 22 ' , and the general ring of light of the corona probably about 18 ' .
10 .
I observed a light film of cloud to be passing over the corona , for several seconds before it was hidden by the cloud .
11 .
Explanation of the diagrams ( p. 383):\#151 ; The upper figure represents the wooden disc with its supports and wires , and the irregular ring of the corona and streamers showing round it , as seen at the commencement of totality .
The second figure is a reproduction of the first on a larger scale , with the disc removed ; the dark circle represents the Moon , and the black dots show the prominences that were noticed .
A scale of degrees and minutes is attached to each figure .
The vertex is towards the top of the paper .
H.M.S. " Fantdme , " , SOth August , 1886 .
Robert H. Archer , Commander .

