XIV .
" Notice of ' The Royal Charter Storm ' in October 1859 .
" By Rear-Admniral ROBERT FITZROY , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) The author commxenced with some reimarks on the recent progress of meteorology , on its advances towards precision and consisteincy as a science , and the comparative certainty and confidence vNith which it may now be relied on in its practical applications .
He adverted also to the measures now systematically adopted by the Meteorological Department of the Board of Trade and by the Admiralty for promoting simultaneous meteorological observations at various places , and for obtaining accurate registration of atmospherical conditions at sea and on land in many parts of the world ; and dIrew attention to the steps taken by these public departments for diffusing practical knowledge concerning the laws of winds and storms , and of weather in general , among mariners and others more especially standing in need of such information , as well as to the practice now followed , of lending trustworthy meteorological instruments to commalnders of ships able and willing to make an adequate return in the shape of accurate meteorological records , and of supplying other such aids , of a kind specially suited to their wants , to various of the most exposed and least affluent fishing villages .
Notice was then taken of some of the more important practical results derived from meteorological inquiry , -especially the remarkable fact , now fully established , of the conistancy of barometric pressure between five and ten degrees of north latitude ; the phenolinena of cyclornes , and the explanation afforded of their production , following Dove 's theory of polar and equatorial currents in the atmosphere .
In treating of the main subject of his communication , the " Royal Charter Storm " and the severe gale of the first two days of November last , the author made use of illustrative diagrams , which were exhibited to the Meeting .
Of these , four , of large size , showed successive phases of the storm on the 25th and 26th of October ; the first at 9 A.M. and the second at 3 P.M. on the 25th ; the third at 3 A.M. and the fourth at 9 A.-A .
on the 26th .
These were intended to show simultaneous or synchronous direction and force of wind over a certain area within a few minutes of time , any noteworthy difference of lonlgitude having been allowed for .
Smaller diagrams , in like manner , showed simultaneous direction and force of wind from the 22nd of October to the 2nd of November .
In both cases the direction was inidicated with reference to the true meridian , and the force according to estimation only , which , however , was checked by many comparisons with velocities and pressure instrumentally obtained at the observatories of Greenwich , Cambridge , Oxford , Wrottesley , Liverpool , and at other well-known establishments .
The same charts also showed curves of barometric pressure and curves of temperature .
These diagrams or charts were compiled by Mr. Babinlgton , assisted in copying by Messrs. Pattrickson , Simmonds , and Symons ; but notwithstanding the large amount of materials already made use of in their compilation , the author observed that none of them , nor indeed any part of the work , could yet be considered as nearly complete , and that much matter would still be added as , from time to time , iniformation might be obtained from various sources .
The storm of the 26th of October was first noticed in accurate records , and measured by instrumental observations , in the Bay of Biscay , near Cape Finisterre in Spaini .
This particular tempest did not come from the west , but from the souith-south-west , true .
Successive barometric effects of the storm were traced by similar means in that direction from S.S.W. to N.N.E. across England , from the Chaniiel through Cornwall , across the central southern counties and Linicoluishire , over the North Sea to between the Shetland Isles and Norway .
By referring to these charts and the diagrams , it will be seen that the lowest barometer and a corresponding or simultaneous lull prevailed over ten , fifteen , or twenty miles consecutively in the direction pointed out .
But at the time that this comparative lull existed there was around this centre , by some called a vortex ( but it can hardly be appropriately so termed , because there was no central disturbance ) , only variable wind or calm for a short time in the middle of the space , which was about ten or fifteen miles in irregular area .
The wind obtained a varying velocity of from 60 to 100 miles an hour at a distance of from twenty to about fifty miles from this space , and in unequal eddyings crossed England towards the north-northeast , the wind blowing from all points of the compass around the lull .
When at Anglesea the storm came from the north-north-east , in the Straits of Dover it was from the south-west ; on the east coast it was easterly ; in the Irish Channel it was northerly , and on the coast of Ireland it was from the north-west .
The charts show that this circulation or cyclonic commotion was passing northwards from the 25th to the 27th , being two complete days from the time of its first great strength in the " Chops of the Channel , " while outside of this circulation the winid became less and less violent ; and it is very remarkable that even so near as on the west coast of Ireland there was fine weather with light winds , while in the British Channel it blew a furious northerly and westerly gale .
At Galwav and at Limerick on that occasioni there were light ?
winds only , while , as already stated , over England , the wind was passing in a tempest , blowing from all points of the compass around a central lull .
The next storm that occurred was similar in its features , though it camne from a rather di-fferent directioni .
It raged on the I st and 2nd of November , and its character was in all respects like that just described , now usually called the " Charter Storm .
" Coming more from the westward , it passed across the north of Ireland , the Isle of Man , north of England , and then across the North Sea towards Denmark .
Further than that distance facts have not yet been gathered , but in the course of time they will be obtained and collated .
The general effect of these storms was felt unequally in our islandcls , and much less inland than on the coasts .
Lord Wrottesley has shown by observations made at his observatory in Staffordshire , that the wind is diminished or checked by its passage over land ; and , looking to the muounitain ranges of Wales and Scotlanid , rising 2000 , 3000 , or 4000 feet above the level of the ocean , we see they must have great power to alter the directioni and probably the velocity of wind , independently of alterations caused by changes of temperature .
The very remarkable similarities of this storm of the 1st and 2nd of November , that of the 25th and 26th of October , the series of storms investigated by Dr. Lloyd during ten years , and the observations of Mr. William Stevenson in Berwickshire , require special niotice on this occasion .
There is no discrepanicy between the results of the ten years ' investigations published by Dr. Lloyd in the Transactions of the Irish Academy , the three years ' inquiiry published by Mr. William Stevensoni , and all the investigatious which have been brought together during the last four years .
They all tell the same story .
Dr. Lloyd only found in ten years one instance of even a partial storm which differed , namnely , one that came from the north in the fimt instance .
Storms from the south-west are followed by sudden and dangerous storms from the north or east , and these are the stormis that do most damniage on oair coasts .
Upon tracing the facts , it is proved that the storms which come from the west and southi coin on gradually , but that storms from the north or east begini suddenly , and at times with extraordinary force .
The barometer , with these north-eastern storms , does not give so much warning upon this coast , because it ranges higher than with the wind from the opposite quarter .
But though the barometer does not give much indication of a north-eastern gale , the thermometer does , and the now well-known average temperature of every week in the year affords the caution .
The temperature being much above or below the meani for the time of year shows whether the wind will be northerly or southerly-thanks to Mr. Glaisher 's discussion of the Greenwich observations for temperature .
To revert to a few of the signs which preceded the " Charter Gale .
" For a few days before that storm came on , the thermometer was exceedingly low over all the country ; there were north winds in some places , and a good deal of snow ; though there had been a great deal of exceedingly dry and hot weather previously .
These anomalies require consideration ; and it may be mentioned that everywhere in these islands , for days before that time , from the 22nd to the 25th of October , barometers were very low .
Many days preceding the Charter storm , an extraordinary clearness in the atmosphere was noticed in the north of Ireland ; the miountains of Scotland were never seen so prominently as they were in the few days preceding those on which the great storm took place .
Every one is aware that last summer was remarkable for its warmth .
It was exceedingly dry and hot .
All over the world , not only in the Arctic , but in the Antarctic regions , in Australia , South America , in the West Indies , Bermudas , and elsewhere , auroras and meteors were unusually prevalent , and they were more remarkable in their features and appearances than had been noticed for many years .
There was also an extraordinary disturbance of currents along telegraph wires .
They were so disturbed at times , that it was evident there were great electric or magnetic storms in the atmosphere , though they could be traced to no apparent cause .
Probably these electric disturbances were connected with a peculiar action of the sun upon our atmosphere .
Submarine wires , as well as electrical wires above ground , were unusually disturbed , and these disturbanices were followed within two or three days by great comnmotions in the atmosphere , or by some remarkable chanige .
The question of areas of barometric pressuire-or lines ( which Espy cointenids for ) , namely , long lines from north to south , or from one point direct to aniother , having been much discussed , the principal object of making the sections , as it were soundings , of the atmosphere which are shown in the diagrams , was to prove whether lines of pressure , or whether areas of pressure prevailed ; and in the author 's opinion , when they are closely examined they go to prove that while the atmosplhere in the British Islands varies in its pressure from time to time , such variation is not along a particular line , bhLt extended over a large and wide area .
As remarkable exceptions to the force of these particular storms , it may be noted that at some places there was little or no wind ; although the barometer fell much , without any conisequence but rain .
The wind circuilating around these districts did not affect them , while at other places the storm was tremendous .
The following few details are given respecting the data on which the diagrams have been constructed : T'he p } obable limnits of error of the baromaetric curves on the synoptic charts , 21st October to 2nd Nove9mber , , 1859 .
1 .
Observations quite correct.-The observations at the regular observatories , such as Greenwich , Oxford , Cambridge , Wrottesley , Ilighfield House , Kew , &amp;c. , have had all correctionis applied , and have been reduced to sea-level , and the temperature of 320 Fahreniheit .
2 .
Eyrror probably very small , less certainly than half a tenth.-The returns from members of the British and Scottish Meteorological Society ( nearly ninety in number ) have been corrected for height above sea-level , within a few feet ; and the corrections of inistrumental errors with reductions to 320 have been applied .
Obserlvations probably within a few hundredths of ana inch.-The continental observationis , collected from Dutch papers and from the " Moniteur , " have been reduced to 320 , and have also been corrected for instrumental errors .
The heights of some stations are known , and the corrections due to those heights have beein applied , while others are but little , if at all , above the sea-level .
Any error in laying down ctirves from these data can scarcely have exceeded two or three hundredths of an inch .
3 .
Observationrs less aceurate.-The heights of the stations of some observers are not known so nearly .
Other corrections have been applied only in a few cases , the observations sometimes recorded ornly to the nearest tenth , as at a few lighthouses , not being deemed sufficiently reliable .
Returns in which the barometrical observations are evidently erroneous ( from comparison with other neighbouring and contemporaneous observations ) have been rejected .
On the whole it may be safely assumed that the observations from which the curves are laid down are less than a tenth in error .
4 .
Lighthouses.-The heights of the lantern above the sea-level , and of the tower , being known , the heights of the barometers have been ascertailned , and corrections for the heights have been applied .
Comparisons of Wind Scales .
Sea .
Wind .
Land .
0 to 3 Light 0 to l3 to 5 AModerate 1 to 2a to 7 Fresh 2 to 37 to 8 Strong 3 to 48 to 10 HIeavy 4 to 5 10 to 12 Violent 5 to 6 Wind .
No. Velocity .
Pr'essure lbs. ( avoirdupois ) .
( laiud scale ) .
Miles ( hourly ) .
lJ_ 1 10 52 32 10 3 45 21 4 6.5 26 5 72 32 6 80 These comparisons of scales have beenl used in the wind charts , and have beeni found convenienit as well as sufficienltly accurate .

