6 .
" Physiological inferences derived from Human and Compara ?
tive Anatomy respecting the Origins of the Nerves , the Cerebellum , and the Striated Bodies .
" By Joseph Swan , Esq. Communicated by Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S. The author remarks that those parts of the nervous system which are concerned in motion and in sensation exhibit a great similarity in all vertebrate animals .
To the first of these functions belong the anterior and middle portions of the spinal cord and medulla oblon ?
gata , including the anterior pyramids , the crura cerebri , and some fibres Icading to the corpora striata and the convolutions , and also the cerebellum .
To the function of sensation belong the postcrior surface of the spinal cord , the posterior and lateral portions of the medulla oblongata , including the posterior pyramids , the ventricuiar cords , and the fourth and third vcntriclcs .
From a general comparison of the relative magnitude and structure of these several parts in the different classes of vertebrated animals , the author infers that only a very small portion of the brain is necessary for the origins of the nerves , their respective faculties being generally derived near the place at which they leave the brain .
These origins are traced in various cases , where , from peculiarities of arrangement or of destination , they present certain remarkable differences of situation .
The author is led to consider the cerebellum as an appendage to the brain , rather than to the medulla oblongata and spinal nerves , for it does not correspond with either the number or the size of the sensitive or motor nerves ; and that it is not required for the intellect , for the special senses , for common sensation , or for volition , appears from its size bearing no proportion to the strength of any of these faculties .
Neither is it concerned in digestion or assi ?
milation , nor does its size present any relation with the heart , the lungs , the muscles , the limbs , the vcrtebra ?
, the ribs , or any other organ , not even those of reproduction .
As , however , its nervous connexions are principally with those parts which are exclusively subservient to the will , it is probable that it is concerned in the completion , and not in the commencement of the voluntary act .
It is probable , also , that the principal crossing of impulses from one side to the other takes place in the medulla oblongata and the motor tracts of the brain .
Some of the arrangcments of its lobules may have reference to the paces and attitudes of different animals .
The will , acting through the cerebral convolutions , sets in action certain muscles placed in proper directions ; but the influence of the cere ?
bellum is required for giving them steadiness amidst the alternations from one set to another , and especially when a slight change disturbs the centre of gravity , and until the balance is cffectually restored by a subsequent act of the will operating on antagonist or other muscles .
The cerebellum also constitutes an additional focus of nervous influence , and may , therefore , coopcrate with the brain in increasing the vital powers , and iinparting greater energy to the various functions of the body .
The author regards the corpus striatum as being a centre for convcying to the mind the perception of the motions of the limbs and of their different parts .
He concludes with some remarks on the double crossings of the tracts of the centres of the nerves of the arms and legs , and the explanation given by these facts to various pathological phenomena .

