The reading of a paper entitled , " On the Ice , formed under pecu ?
liar circumstances , at the bottom of running Water .
" By the Rev. James Farquharson , of Alford , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
The ice , which is frequently observed to collect at the bottom of streams and rivers , differs in appearance from that which is formed at the surface ; for , instead of assuming the shape of solid glass like plates , it has more theappearanceofaggregated masses ofsnow , and is composed of small crystals of ice adheringtogetherirregularly , either by their sides or angles .
Rivers are sometimes sochoked up by accumu ?
lations of ground-iceof this description , that they are not only impeded in their course , but also raised considerably above their banks .
While in this state , a slight change in the weather will frequently occasion the complete disengagement of this ice from the bottom ; so that , in a very short space of time , the river returns into its natural channel ; and then , although it may be frozen at the surface , it continues to flow over a perfectly clear bottom .
All these phenomena are considered by the author as perfectly explicable on the theory he advances , of different degrees of radiation of heat occurring from the bottom according to variations of circumstances .
He conceives that when this radiation takes place from the solid opake materials of the bed of the stream , through the stratum of transparent water , congelation is in ?
duced on that portion of fluid , already cooled down to the freezingpoint , which is in immediate contact with the radiating body .
The circumstances which , by favouring radiation , contribute to this effect , are , principally , great clearness of the sky , and great transparency of the water 3 the bottom of the river being cooled below the freezingpoint sooner than the water which is flowing over it 3 and the ice , formed at the bottom , remaining attached to it , as long as the heat which is transmitted from below continues to be lost by radiation .
The formation of ground-ice is favoured by the intestine motions in ?
cident to a rapid current ; because the different strata of fluid , which in still water would have arranged themselves , according to their specific gravities , in the order most conducive to the congelation of the surface , being continually mixed together , the whole body of water is cooled more uniformly .

