Observations of the Transit of Mercury over the Disc of the Sun ; to which is added , an Investigation of the Causes which often prevent the proper Action of Mirrors .
By William Herschel,.LL .
D. F , R.S. Read February 10 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 214 .
] Concerning the transit of Mercury , as the times at which the observations were made were not the chief object of the investigation , the detail here given is only to be considered as denoting the order of their succession .
When the planet was first seen on the disc of the sun on the 9th of November last at about 40 ' after seven in the morning , it was easily distinguished from the openings in the luminous clouds generally called spots , its perfect roundness being sufficient to point it out , had its place not been previously known .
As the morning advanced , its termination became by degrees still more accurately defined ; and the corrugations of the luminous surface of the sun were visible up to the very edge of the planet .
Near the egress , when the sun and planet were nearly in the meridian , particular attention was paid to the appearance that was thought to indicate an atmosphere round Mercury ; but nothing of the kind could be perceived , its periphery remaining sharp and well defined to the very last .
It was also observed that the appearance of the planet , during the whole transit , never deviated in the least from the spherical form ; whence it is inferred , that unless its polar axis should have happened to be situated in a line drawn from the eye to the sun , the planet cannot be materially flattened at its poles .
Concerning the second part of this paper , namely , the causes which often affect mirrors so as to prevent their showing objects distinctly , though it be well known to astronomers that telescopes will act very differently at different times , yet no particular inquiry had yet been made respecting the cause of this imperfection .
The experience our author has acquired during his long series of observations , in which he never lost sight of this circumstance , has enabled him to combine a set of facts , from which he thinks himself authorized to deduce inferences which will be found to throw a considerable light upon the subject .
These observations are here described at length , and arranged under different heads , chiefly according to the state of the atmosphere at the time they were made .
Their results will in some measure point out the nature of them .
They seem to establish , as a general principle , that in order to see distinctly with " telescopes , it is required that the temperature of the atmosphere and mirror should be uniform , and that the air be impregnated with moisture .
" Hence it appears that a frost after mild weather , or a thaw after frost , will sensibly derange the performance of our mirrors , till either the frost or the mild weather are sufficiently settled that the temperature of the mirror , and indeed of the whole telescope , may accommodate itself to that of the air .
That when a frost , though very severe , becomes settled , the mirror will soon accommodate itself .
to the temperature , and the telescope will be found to act well .
That no telescope brought into a cold atmosphere out of a warm room , can for a time be expected to act properly ; and that no delicate observations , with high magnifying powers , can well be made when looking through a door , window , or slit in the roof of an observatory .
It equally appears that windy weather in general , which must occasion a mixture of airs of different temperatures , cannot be favourable to distinct vision : and that the aurorse boreales , when they induce , as they often do , a considerable change in the temperature of the different regions of air , are likewise detrimental as to distinctness .
Sometimes the weather may be perfectly serene , and yet the telescopes will act imperfectly .
This may be owing to the dryness occasioned by easterly winds , or by a change of temperature arising from an agitation of the upper regions of the atmosphere , or perhaps by both these causes combined together .
Dry air , it seems , is by no means proper for vision ; and hence dampness , haziness , and fogs , to a certain degree , will generally be found favourable to distinctness : damp situations , therefore , and the neighbourhood of lakes or rivers , need not be objected to in choosing a spot for an observe tory .
As the warm exhalations of the roof of a house in a cold night must disturb the uniformity of the temperature of a certain contiguous portion of air , it is to be expected that the appearance of stars seen over a house , and at no considerable distance from it , will be affected by that emanation .
Lastly , one of the most essential causes of the want of uniformity in the performance of telescopes must , it seems , be ascribed to the effects of heat and cold upon the figure of the mirrors .
This circumstance has called forth a particular investigation , in which heated bodies were approached at different distances , both before and behind mirrors , either of glass or metal ; and it was remarkable how their focal lengths were immediately affected by it .
Hence it may reasonably be inferred , that the rays of the sun on a mirror will produce a similar distortion .
That the dilatation occasioned by heat is the cause of this defect , will easily be admitted ; but our author does not enter here upon the theory of this influence , nor upon the remedies that may be applied to its detrimental consequences .
These points he reserves for a future communication .

