425 1872 .
] 0n tJie History of the Ethylene Bases .
note .
If , on the other hand , the sun 's meridian producing the maximum varies , the mean period should be sought for each year by the trial of periods of different lengths , as has been done by Dr. Hornstein for Prague , and as I have done for Makerstoun .
III .
" Contributions towards the History of the Ethylene Bases .
" By A. W. Hofmann , Ph. D. , E.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Berlin .
Received May 20 , 1872 .
The manufacture of chloral , which , since the discovery of the remarkable physiological properties of this compound , is conducted on a daily increasing scale , gives rise to a variety of secondary products which have not failed to attract the attention of chemists .
Some time ago I showed that the most volatile fraction ot these by-products consists almost entirely of chloride of ethyl , constituting a very valuable material for the preparation of an abundant quantity of the ethylated ammonias .
The fraction boiling between 70 ' and 100 ' is chiefly bichloride of ethylene , which , when submitted to the action of alcoholic ammonia at 100 ' , fur-nishes a supply of ethylene bases such as would be difficult to obtain from other sources .
Dr. Schering , one of the principal manufacturers of chloral in Berlin , has lately placed at my disposal between 30 and 40 kilograms ol these latter by-products , which the kindness of my friends Drs. Martius and Mendelssohn , by placing at my disposal one of their magnificent enamelled autoclaves , has permitted me to treat in one single operation with alcoholic ammonia .
he product of this operation was a large proportion of sal-ammoniac eposited in crystals , and a dark alcoholic mother-liquor which , after the a co ol had been distilled off , yielded on evaporation a brown crystalline fesi ue , consisting of salts of ethylene bases .
Large quantities of ethylene-lamine chlorhydrate in a state of absolute purity were separated from this nuxture by systematic crystallization .
An additional portion was procured y istilling the mother-liquor , after it had ceased to crystallize , with an cl f8 v , rUeCting aPar^ products , as long as they yielded with or y ric acid the easily crystallizable ethylenediamine salt .
In this ta , ni !
^r In 're ^lan a kilogram of the perfectly pure chlorhydrate was ob-n , no ' no* ' sPe\amp ; k of quantities of the more complex bases , which I have ^yet endeavoured to separate .
tor nCW s'Urce ethylenediaminehaving thus been opened , I was induced presents'0 ^ S^Ut^ ^is remarkable substance , the history of which still tain if f ^rf a^ number of gaps .
I was more particularly anxious to ascer have on ' " SOme reactions , to which the ordinary alcohol bases atlni ; n ' , i ate keen found to lend themselves , might be with equal success Pp , led t " the ethylene bases .
Ha/ \#151 ; op Carbon Bisulphide on Ethylenediamine .
U1g repeatedly been engaged during the last few years with the study *26 Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the [ June 20 , of the mustard-oils , my attention was in the first place directed towards the production 0f the ethylene term of this class of compounds , and I was thus led to make some experiments on the behaviour of the diamine towards carbon bisulphide .
Indeed , if the reaction between these two bodies ensued in a manner analogous to that which obtains in the case of carbon bisulphide and etliyjamine , the formation of an ethylenediamine ethylene disulphocarbamate , * ( C , H1)H1N"Hj * was to be expected , which , under the influence 'f metaU ' ' saIts ' !
'we Tplit up in e ?
hylen^\#153 ; ;"e\gt ; \lt ; \#153 ; lpM\gt ; yd\#153 ; acid\gt ; and ethyk"e mustard- " ' ' CC8 ) , ( CtH1)H1 N , |g =2H3S+(CaH1)H1N !
+(CS)2(CaH1)NJ .
( Ca H4 ) H4 N2 , H2 J ^ , , Ethylenediamine sulphocarbonate.\#151 ; lf carbon bisulphide be raise wi a solution of ethylenediamine in alcohol , a clear liquid is obtained , which after a few moments becomes troubled by the separation of a white , diJB amorphous compound .
This substance rapidly augments , so that after th lapsed a quarter of an hour the liquid is converted into a white or pale yeThe new compound is nearly insoluble in alcohol and ether , and mg therefore be readily purified by washing with these solvents .
It is soluW in hot water , undergoing , however , at the same time slight decomposition ; if care be taken not to heat the solution to the boiling-point , the eompog separates on cooling in prismatic crystals .
In the dry state also it is decomposed at a temperature of 100 ' , and must therefore for analysi be d ied in vacuo or over sulphuric acid .
Analysis shows that the substance^ formed by the union of one molecule of ethylenediamine and one of carbon bisulphide , its composition being expressed by the formula c3 h8 n2 S2=(C2 h4 ) h4 n2 , cs2 .
The behaviour of ethyleuediamine to carbon bisulphide is therefoffj| far analogous to that of ethylamine that we have , in both instances , a on molecule of ammonia uniting with one molecule^ of car on ^SU P , The ethylenediamine derivative , however , is distinguished from that o ) amine by its chemical characters ; for whilst the latter is eviden y ethylamine salt of ethylsulphocarbamic acid , a similar view of the c0 tution of the former is untenable ; for neither do dilute acids cause tbeP ration from it of ethylene sulphocarbamic acid , nor do alkahes i ^ ethylenediamine , reactions which would certainly take place it the body were constituted like the ethylamine compound .
Under these cumstances there was but little expectation of meeting amongs ^ ducts of its decomposition an ethylene mustard-oil having the co^ sition of ethylene sulphocyanate described by Buff .
In fact I may ^ at once that hitherto ail my attempts to prepare such a compoun entirely failed .
1872-3 History of the Ethylene Bases .
Ethylene sulphocarbamide , ethylene urea.\#151 ; When a solution of the bisulphide of carbon compound of ethylenediamine is boiled with a metallic salt ( mercury chloride for example ) , sulphuretted hydrogen is eliminated , whilst at the same time a small quantity of carbon bisulphide distils , and there remains in solution a salt of ethylenediamine and the metallic compound of a new body still containing sulphur .
A similar change is produced by boiling with dilute acids , but in this instance much carbon bisulphide is evolved .
Finally , the decomposition may also be effected by boiling with water ; in this case scarcely any thing but sulphuretted hydrogen is given off , the product of the reaction consisting almost entirely of the above-mentioned new sulphur body , which can by this means be easily obtained in a pure state .
If the aqueous solution be allowed to cool , when sulphuretted hydrogen has ceased to be evolved , beautiful white prismatic crystals having an extremely bitter taste are deposited ; they are soluble with difficulty in ether , but easily so in alcohol .
Their melting-point is 194 ' ; at a higher temperature they are decomposed .
This substance still contains sulphur which cannot be removed even by boiling with lead oxide in an alkaline solution , and is only detected by fusion with potassium nitrate .
Analysis of the body dried at 100 ' leads to the formula CS ] C3 H6 N2 S =* C2 H4N2 .
HJ The new substance , which may be considered as ethylene sulphocarbamide or ethylene sulpho-urea , is thus seen to be formed from the carbon bisulphide compound by the elimination of one molecule of sulphhydric acid , c3h8n2s2=c3h6n2s+h2s .
The same body , as already mentioned , is produced by boiling the carbon bisulphide compound with metallic salts or with acids , the by-products ethylenediarnine and carbon bisulphide , always formed in larger or smaller quantity , belonging to a secondary reaction , in which the original compound is resolved into its constituents .
Ethylene sulphocarbamide crystallizes unchanged from its solution in acids , but combines with silver nitrate and mercury chloride , forming crystalline compounds .
The mercury salt having been frequently prepared in the attempts to obtain the mustard-oil has been repeatedly analyzed .
Probably several double salts exist ; but under the conditions in which I have operated a compound of two molecules of the urea with three molecules of mercury chloride , 2C3 H6 N2 S , 3HgCla , appeared to be the principal product .
Platinum chloride , even in very dilute solutions , gives rise to a bright Je low amorphous precipitate , which can be heated to 100 ' without under-going decomposition .
Its composition is 2C3H9N2S , PtCl4 .
V'L .
XX .
2 i Dr. A. W. Hofmann on the [ June 20 .
A second platinum-salt exists which only differs from that just mentioned by containing two molecules of hydrochloric acid .
This salt was accidentally obtained in an attempt to decompose the ethylene sulpho-urea by sulphuric acid .
The urea was heated with the concentrated acid until sulphurous acid began to be evolved ; on adding platinum chloride to the solution after it had been diluted with water , a difficultly soluble platinum-salt was formed , crystallizing in beautiful long needles .
At the first glance this appeared to be the platinum-salt of a new base , hut on examination it was found to contain the original sulphur compound .
It is represented by the formula 2(C3 H0 Na S , HC1 ) , PtCl4 .
On decomposing this platinum-salt by sulphuretted hydrogen a chlorhydric solution was formed , from which platinum chloride precipitated the original amorphous salt , and which on evaporation left the original ethylene sulpho-urea ; this was identified by its bitter taste and by a determination of its melting-point .
It is not easy to form an idea of the manner in which sulphuric acid acts in this case , as the needle-shaped platinum-salt is not produced in the presence of chlorhydric acid alone , even when very concentrated and in large excess .
On comparing the composition of ethylene sulphocarbamide with that of ethylenediamine on the one side and that of ethylene mustard-oil on the other , it will at once be seen that the new body occupies a position intermediate between the two : CS l Na .
CSJ The idea naturally suggested itself of procuring the mustard-oil by the further action of carbon bisulphide on ethylene sulphocarbamide ; but although numerous experiments have been made in this direction under varied conditions , hitherto all these attempts have been without success .
Digestion with carbon bisulphide alone or with carbon bisulphide and lead oxide produces no result ; nor is the sulphur compound changed by treatment with potassium xanthate under pressure .
In every respect the body exhibits remarkable stability ; indeed all endeavours to remove the sulphur by the action of metallic oxides or of ammonia , even under pressure at a very high temperature , have hitherto failed .
An experiment may here still briefly he mentioned by which the formation of the body sought for was aimed at in another way .
As is well known , ethylic mustard-oil may also be procured from diethylsulpho-urea when ethylamine is eliminated from this compound , and thus a further reaction appeared to present itself which might be made available for the production of ethylene mustard-oil .
An ethylene sulpho-urea corresponding to f'ur molecules of ammonia and having the formula ( CS ) ( CaH J ' 1872 .
] History of the Ethylene Bases .
was not unlikely to be generated from ethylenediamine sulphocyanliydrate by atomic interchange within the molecule .
Ethylenediamine sulphocyanhydrate.\#151 ; I first endeavoured to prepare this salt by decomposing the chlorhydrate with silver sulphocyanide , but no action takes place between the two salts even under pressure .
It can , however , be readily obtained by saturating free sulphocvanhydric acid with ethylenediamine .
The compound crystallizes in large transparent prisms which soon become opaque .
The crystals , which are anhydrous , are exceedingly soluble in water , somewhat less so , but still very soluble , in alcohol , insoluble in ether .
The formula C4 H10 N4 S2=(C2 H4 ) H4 N2 , ( HCNS)2 was verified by the analysis of the substance dried at 100 ' .
On heating the sulphocyanhydrate , it immediately undergoes profound decomposition .
Even below its melting-point , which lies at 145 ' , the salt becomes changed into the ethylene sulpho-urea already described , ammonium sulphoeyanide being simultaneously separated .
( C2 H4 ) H4 N2 , ( HCNS)2=(CS)(C2 H4 ) II2 N2+HaN , HCNS .
This transformation is perfectly analogous to that which , as I pointed out many years ago* , aniline sulphocyanhydrate undergoes under the influence of heat when it is changed into sulphocarbanilide and ammonium sulphocyanide .
No indication of the formation of a mustard-oil could be observed .
I must not leave unmentioned that experiments made in my laboratory by M. Jul. Strakosch , with the view of preparing the mustard-oil of benzidine , have had no better results .
New methods , then , must be sought for the production of the mustard-oils corresponding to diamines .
2 .
Ethylenediamides .
In order to complete the history of ethylenediamine I may here be allowed to append some further observations , partly new and partly old , which have not yet been published .
Action of benzoyl chloride on ethylenediamine.\#151 ; The reaction , which is a very energetic one , takes place precisely in the manner indicated by theory .
The hot liquid solidifies on cooling to a crystalline mixture of ethylenediamine chlorhydrate , and a new compound to which the name ethylene dibenzoyldiamide belongs .
After washing away the ethylenediamine salt , the residue only requires to be crystallized once or twice from alcohol in order to obtain it in fine needles of perfect purity .
These issolve very sparingly in cold , more readily in boiling alcohol , but are insoluble in water .
The composition of the new substance is C2H4 ] C16H1BN20=(C7Hfi0)2lN3 ; II I it is formed according to the equation 2[(C2 H4 ) II4 NJ + 2C , Hb O C1~(C2 H4 ) ( C7II3 0)2 Ha N2 + ( C2 H4)H4 N2 , ( HC1)2 .
* Ann. Cliem .
Pharm. vol. lxx .
p. 143 .
2 i 2 On the History of the Ethylene Bases .
[ J un 20 , Action of chloral on ethylenediamine.\#151 ; In order to become acquainted also with an ethylenediamide belonging to the series of fatty acids , I have , t prepared the formyl compound .
The basic properties of ethylenediamine being , indeed , similar to those of potash and soda , it appeared appropriate to treat the base with chloral in order to produce ethylene diformyldiamide .
Experiment has confirmed this anticipation ; the two substances act on one another with great energy , torrents of chloroform being given off which may be readily condensed : on evaporating the residuary liquid on the water-bath , ethylene diformyldiamide remains behind as a transparent syrup .
( C2 H4)H4 N2+2[C Cl3 .
CHO ] = ( C2 H4)(CHO)2 II2 N2+2CHC13 .
Both acids and alkalies , especially on boiling , readily change this amide i-into ethylenediamine and formic add .
In passing I may mention that , chloral may also be conveniently used for the preparation of other formamid.es .
When anhydrous ethylamine and chloral are brought together , a white crystalline mass is immediately formed by the direct union f of the two substances .
This , on distillation , gives considerable quantities 5 of pure ethylformamide boiling at 199 ' , chloroform being eliminated at the I same time .
Formamide also may be obtained in this manner , but less advantageously .
Action of oxalic ether on ethylenediamine.\#151 ; If a concentrated alcoholic \ solution of ethylenediamine be mixed with oxalic ether , the liquid becomes warm and solidifies after a few minutes to a white amorphous mass , which is j almost insoluble both in water and in alcohol .
On evaporating the alcoholic filtrate from the insoluble body on the water-bath , a white crystalline substance is left , which is soluble both in water and in alcohol .
The white amorphous Substance is swollen up like starch-paste , and can only be washed with difficulty ; moreover , as no solvent for it was to be found , it could not be further purified , a circumstance which was not without a slight influence on the analytical results .
As might be expected , the amorphous body is ethylene oxamide , CHI C. H. Na 02=C2 O , l Na .
hJ The substance crystallizing in white scales , which is obtained on evaporating the filtrate from ethylene oxamide , was found on analysis to he ethylic ethylene oxamate : CM Hie Oc s(C2H4)(C202)2 H2N2 ( C2H6)2 1 he action of ethylenediamine on oxalic ether is thus seen to be cisely what theoretically might be expected .

