Farther analytical Experiments relative to the Constitution of the prussic , of the ferruretted chyazic , and of the sulphuretted chyazic Acids , and to that of their Salts ; together with the Application of the Atomic Theory to the Analyses of those Bodies .
By Robert Porrett , jun .
Esq. Communicated by W. H. Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read May 11 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 220 .
] In a former paper the author endeavoured to show that prussic acid would combine with black oxide of iron , or with sulphur , and form with them peculiar acids , to which he gave the names of ferruretted and sulphuretted chyazic acids ; and he examined in what proportion the elements of these new acids are combined , as well as the proportions in which the acids unite to different saline bases .
Mr. Porrett 's present object is to add the results of two new analyses , made with great care , and to correct those inaccuracies of experiment , which are at all times unavoidable , by the assistance of the theory of Dalton respecting the relative weights of atoms , and of Berzelius respecting multiple doses of oxygen .
The first compound here examined , is prussiate of mercury .
Ten grains of this salt were decomposed by hydrosulphuret of soda , and yielded 93 of black sulphuret of mercury .
The residual liquor being treated with sulphate of copper , yielded 97 of sulphuretted chyazate of copper , which by former analyses is known to contain 1 38 prussic acid .
In order to determine the quantity of red oxide of mercury indicated by the weight of black sulphuret obtained , 25 grains of corrosive sublimate were decomposed by hydrosulphuret of potash , and yielded 21*5 grains ; and since the quantity of red oxide contained in the sublimate is known to be 79per cent. , it is inferred that 93 black sulphuret are equivalent to 8'62 red oxide ; and hence that 100 grains of prussiate of mercury consist of 13 8 prussic acid , and 86*2 red oxide of mercury .
For the purpose of determining the constitution of prussic acid , Mr. Porrett effected its decomposition by mixing prussiate of mercury with red oxide of mercury , in such proportion , that by the assistance of heat , the whole of the prussic acid might be converted into carbonic acid , azote , and water .
By a number of trials he found that this was not completely effected till the quantity of red oxide added amounted to five times the quantity contained in the prussiate .
In the decomposition of prussiate of mercury aloneby heat , it ix only one sixth part of the prussic acid , which is decomposed by the quantity of oxygen in the oxide present as a constituent of that salt , and hence five more equal quantities are requisite to effect the complete decomposition of the whole .
In all cases it is observable that the quantity of azote produced is exactly equal in volume to the quantity of prussic acid gas decomposed , and the quantity of carbonic acid exactly the double of the same measure .
Together with these is produced a quantity of water , containing twice as much oxygen as is contained in the carbonic acid .
The author takes pains to describe , with much precision , the precautions which he found it expedient to employ for effecting the entire decomposition of the prussic acid , the mode of preparing the red oxide , of grinding the materials , of charging the tube that he employs as a retort , of applying the heat to the several parts in succession , and of receiving and examining the products .
The results of this analysis of prussic acid , show that 100 grains consist of 34 8 carbon .
40-7 azote .
24-5 hydrogen. .
In a Table which follows , the author exhibits , at one view , the results of his analysis of prussic acid , and of ten different compounds into which it enters ; and at the same time a comparative statement of those proportions which may be supposed more near approximations to the truth , from theoretic considerations of the number of atoms contained in each of the salts under examination .

