III .
An Account of Morn Garou , a Mountain in the Island of St. Vincent , with a Description of the Volcano on its Summit .
In a Letter from Mr. James Anderson , Surgeon , to Mr. Forsyth , His Majesty 's Gardener at Kensington ; communicated by the Right Honourable Sir George Yonge , Bart. F. R. S. Read November 18 , 1784 .
THE many ridges of mountains which intersect this island in all directions , and rise in gradations , one above the other , to a very great height , with the rivers tumbling from their sides over very high precipices , render it exceeding difficult to explore its interior parts .
The most remarkable of these mountains is one that terminates the N.W. end of the island , and the highest in it , and has always been mentioned to have had volcanic eruptions from it .
The traditions of the oldest inhabitants in the island , and the ravins at its bottom , seem to me to vindicate the assertion As I was determined , during my stay in the island , to see as much of it as I could ; and as I knew , from the altitude of this mountain , there was a probability of meeting with plants on it I could find in no other part of the island ; I should have attempted going up if I had heard nothing of a volcano being on it .
But viewing the mountain at a distance , the structure of it was different from any in the island , or any I had seen in the West Indies .
I could perceive it divided into many different ridges , separated by very deep chasms , and its summit appeared quite destitute of any vegetable production .
On examining several ravins , that run from the bottom a great way up the mountain , I perceived they were quite destitute of water , and found pieces of pumice-stone , charcoal , several earths and minerals , that plainly indicated there must be some very singular place or other on some part of the mountain .
I also recollected a story told by some very old men in the island , that they had heard the captain of a ship say , that between this island and St. Lucia he saw , towards night , flames and smoke issuing from the top of this mountain , and next morning his decks were covered with ashes and small stones .
This , you may readily imagine , was excitement enough to examine it , if I possibly could ; but I was much discouraged upon being told , it was impossible to gain the summit of it ; nor could I get either white men , Carribbee , or Negro , that would undertake to conduct me up for any reward I could offer ; nor could I get any information relative to it .
But as difficulty to attain enhances the value of the object , so the more I was told of the impossibility of going up , the more was I determined to attempt it .
After I had examined the basis of it , as far as I could for the sea and other mountains , to find the most probable place to commence my journey , I observed an opening of several large and dry ravins , that seemingly ran a great way up ; but I was not sure if they were not intersected by some rocks or precipices I could not get over .
I came to Mr. MALOUNE'S , about a mile distant from the mountain , but the nighest house to it I could stay at all night .
Here I met with a friendly reception and great hospitality .
After communicating my intentions to him , he told me , he would give me every assistance he could , by sending some trusty negroes with me , and wished he was able to go with me himself .
This was a kind offer to me , in my then situation , as negroes were what I only wanted , having only one boy belonging to Dr. YOUNG with me .
I knew , if I had great difficulties in the woods , he and I both should be inadequate to the task , as in a short time we should be so wearied as to be unable to proceed : from what I had seen of the mountain , I knew I must be under the necessity of carrying water with me ; and from the great distance to the top , and obstructions we might naturally expect , I should at least require two days to accomplish it .
By examining the side of the mountain towards me with a good glass , I imagined I saw two ridges I might get up .
I perceived they were covered great part of the way with thick wood ; yet I hoped , with a little cutting , I should be able to scramble through them .
I appointed next morning to begin my route by one of these ridges .
February 26 , 1784 , I left Mr. MALOUNE'S about sun-rise , with two stout negroes and Dr. YOUNG'S boy ; each of us having a good cutlass , as well to clear our way through the woods , as to defend us in case we should be attacked by Caribbees or run-away negroes .
We arrived at the bottom of the mountain a little before seven in the morning .
To get to either of the ridges , we found we had a rock to climb above forty feet high : it was with great difficulty we scrambled up , assisting one another in the best manner we could ; here we found it necessary to contract our baggage .
After getting up this rock , I found myself in the bottom of a narrow and deep ravin .
Having ascended this ravin a little way , I saw some cleared ground on its sides , with tobacco growing .
This I conjectured was the habitation of some Caribbees ; but I was much surprised when one of the negroes I had with me told me , it was the habitation of a Mr. GASCO , a Frenchman .
What could induce a stout healthy man in the prime of life , and a good mechanic , with several negroes , to take up his residence among rocks and precipices , excluded from the whole world , is a mystery to me .
Besides , by every torrent of rain that happens , he may expect himself and all his habitation to be washed over the rocks into the ocean .
Notwithstanding his singular situation , I found him an intelligent man , and I experienced every hospitality his poor cottage could afford .
The difficulty of going through woods in the West Indies , where there are no roads or paths , is far beyond any thing an European can conceive .
Besides tall trees and thick underwood , there are hundreds of different climbing plants twisted together like ropes , and running in all directions to a great extent , and even to the tops of the highest trees ; by pushing on they cannot be broke , and many of them with difficulty cut ; besides a species of grass , the Schoenus Lithospermos , with serrated leaves , that cuts and tears the hands and face terribly .
With such obstructions as these it was above two hours before we got on the ridge , where I was in hopes our passage would have been easier ; but I soon found my mistake , for I was surrounded with a thick forest , much more difficult to get through than before , on account of the large piles of trees broken down by the hurricanes , to pass which in many parts we were obliged to creep on our hands and feet to get below them , and in other places to climb a great height above the surface of the ground , to get over large trunks lying on one another , and these being frequently rotten , occasioned us to tumble headlong down to a great depth , among rotten wood and grass , so that it was with great difficulty I and the negroes could extricate ourselves .
By constantly cutting to clear our way , I , as well as my companions , grew much fatigued , and they wished much to return back .
About four in the afternoon I could not prevail upon them to proceed farther ; if they did , they could not return before dark , and they would not sleep all night in the woods ; but said , if I stayed they would return to me next morning .
I saw it was impossible to gain the summit of the mountain with the boy only by that route : I likewise saw the woods growing more difficult , my water also totally expended : from these considerations I intended to go down to the Frenchman 's , and remain there all night , and try another route with my boy next morning , hoping I might be fortunate enough to find an easier passage .
I arrived at Mr. GASCO'S a little after sun-set , being much fatigued and thirsty , and never experienced more hospitality and kindness than from this man in his miserable cot ; for we ought not to judge of the value of the things received , but of the disposition of the heart with which they are given .
He parted with his hammock to me , and slept on a board himself .
This I at first refused ; but he insisted on it , telling me , from my hardships of the day I was much more tired than he .
I took the hammock , but I found it was impossible to close my eyes during the night with cold .
His hut was built of roseaux or large reeds , between each of which a dog might creep through , and the top was covered with dry grass .
It is situated in the bottom of a deep gully , where the sun does not shine till nine in the morning , nor after four in the afternoon .
It is surrounded by thick wood , and during the night the whole of the mountain is covered with thick clouds , from which it frequently rains ; this makes the night air exceedingly cold .
I got ready to renew my journey next morning , having only Dr. YOUNG'S boy with me , who continued very faithful to me during this excursion , being very active and hardy : I do not know if I could have gone through this fatigue had it not been for his assistance .
I now determined to commence this day 's route up the ravin , as it seemed to widen and apparently run a considerable way up in the direction I wished for ; and if I could get out of it upon the other ridge , it would at least be two miles nearer than the way I had attempted yesterday , and probably , after getting out of it , I might find wood easier of access .
In this ravin I got up about a mile and a half , without meeting with any considerable obstruction .
Encouraged by getting so far , although the ravin was narrowing fast , with numbers of rocks and precipices to climb over , with vines and bushes difficult to get through , I was resolved to presist in this route , and determined by every possible means to get to the object of my wishes , well knowing if I could not perform it this way , I might abandon it entirely .
After climbing over a number of difficult passes , the ravin terminated at the bottom of a very high precipice ; how far it was to the summit I did not know , being covered toward the top with thick wood ; but from the bottom upwards it was loose sand as far as I could see , with ferns and tufts of grass , which , as soon as I took hold of them , came out at the roots .
The precipice being so very steep , with no trees or bushes on it to assist me in getting up , I plainly saw the attempting to climb it was at the risk of my life : however , I was resolved to try it , and telling the boy to keep some distance behind me , in case I should tumble and drive him down along with me , I began to ascend , holding the tufts of grass as lightly as possible , and digging holes with my cutlass to put my feet in ; but I often lost my hold , and frequently slipped down a considerable distance : however , as it was nothing but loose sand , I could easily push my cutlass into it to the handle , and by grasping it could recover myself again .
Had I not taken the resolution before I began to ascend to divest myself of fear , I could not possibly have gone , for the terror of falling would have been the means of it every instant .
I got up to some wild plantains , which I saw continued all the way to the place where the bushes and trees began to grow .
I here rested myself , and waited for the boy 's getting to me , which he did much easier than I , although he had the provisions and water , owing to the track I had made , and because , being much lighter , he could better trust himself to the grass and ferns .
After some labour we arrived at the top of the precipice .
I found myself on a very narrow ridge , thickly covered with wood , and bounded by two ravins , the bottoms of which I could not see ; the descent to them seemed to be nearly perpendicular , yet all the way covered with thick wood .
After refreshing ourselves , we began our fatigue , the boy and I cutting , and carrying our water and provisions , alternately .
When we had got some way , I found I was on an exceeding narrow ridge , in many parts not six feet broad ; on each side a tremendous gulf , into one or other of which I was often in danger of falling , so that with great caution I was obliged to lie down on my belly , to see through the bushes how the ridge tended .
Here I began to smell sulphur , or rather a smell like gunpowder .
As I knew this smell must come from the top of the mountain , being in the direction of the wind , I was in hopes we could not be far from it , as the smell grew stronger and stronger as I ascended .
I saw a rising before me , and thought if I was once on it , if the top of the mountain was near I could have a view of it ; but having got on this rising I could only see a high peak on the N. W. end of the mountain , and by appearance I thought myself very little nearer than when I was at the bottom .
The woods now became very difficult to get through ; great quantities of fallen trees lying buried under long grass and being rotten , when I thought myself walking on the ground , I was frequently buried a great depth among them .
Being now about noon , and my turn to carry the baggage , and consequently my turn of rest , I was surprised to hear a rustling among the bushes , and something like a human voice behind me .
As we were now in a place where I had little reason to suppose there had been a human foot before , and could not imagine there could be habitations of Caribbees or run-away negroes , since from the barrenness of the mountain they could not possibly find any provisions to subsist on , I told the boy to stand still , and let us wait their coming up ; for if they were Caribbees advancing with an intention to hurt us , there was no alternative but to defend ourselves .
You may imagine my surprise when I saw one of the negroes who had been with me the day before , with three others , which Mr. MALOUNE had sent to my assistance , with plenty of provisions .
After refreshment , with this assistance , I renewed my labours with fresh spirits , and thought I was sure of reaching the top before night .
Having proceeded a little , I had a fair view of the ravin on my left , which was of prodigious depth , and ran from near the top of the mountain to the sea ; its bottom seemed to be a rock of a colour nearly resembling lava , and appeared as if there had been vast torrents of sulphureous matter running in it some time .
I regretted much I knew not of this ravin before I commenced my excursion , as by passing a head-land in a canoe , and getting into the ravin , I might have gained the summit of the mountain , without experiencing the delays and difficulties I here encountered .
It was now about 4 P.M. and I had no prospect of the mountain 's top ; but from the ascent of the ravin below , I knew it was a great way off .
I thought if I could get into the ravin before night , I could get easily up next morning .
After cutting a great way through wild plantains , the sun near setting , I found myself almost over the verge of a precipice ; by catching hold of some shrubs I prevented myself from falling .
We were now about halfway down ; but all the way below us , as far as we could see , was a perpendicular precipice of rock , several hundred feet high , to pass which was impossible .
I had a view of some part of the top of the mountain , which I saw was yet far from me ; nor could I attempt any other way than the ridge I had left .
Being now sun-set , and the negroes very discontented , because they could not return that night , I found we must take up our night 's residence in the place where we were .
It was a very unfavourable one , there being nothing but plantains growing , which retaining the rain long in their leaves , and being frequently agitated by the wind , were constantly dropping , and kept the ground always moist .
Being almost dark , we had time to make us no other habitation , than placing two or three sticks against an old stump of a tree , and slightly covering them with plantain leaves .
After getting together some little wood to make a fire to keep us comfortable , it began to blow and rain violently , which continued all night .
We soon found our building afforded us no shelter , and the wood would not burn , so that we could not get any fire ; and the ground on which we were situated would not allow the least exercise to keep us warm .
From such a miserable night I experienced no mitigation for the fatigues of the day .
I wished for the rising sun , to renew my labours ; which I at last beheld with inexpressible joy .
As soon as we could see , we returned to the ridge we left the night before , and began to work with alacrity , as we were almost chilled with cold .
I pushed on as fast as possible , and about ten o'clock found the woods began to grow thin .
I could not see the top of the mountain , but had a view of several ridges that joined it .
From the wind falling , and the heat growing intense , I thought we must then be under the cover of the summit : I here found many new plants .
About eleven A.M. I was overjoyed to have a full view of the summit of the mountain , nearly a mile distant from us , and that we were nearly out of the woody region .
The top seemed to be composed of six or seven different ridges , very much broken in the sides , as if they had suffered great convulsions of nature ; they were divided by amazing deep ravins .
without any water in them .
I observed where the ridges meet the edge of a large excavation , as it seemed to be , on the highest part .
I imagined this might be the mouth of the crater , and directed my course to a high peak which overlooked it .
I found here a most beautiful tree which composed the last wood .
After that I entered into a thick long grass , intermixed with fern , which branched and ran in every direction .
To break it was impossible , and with great difficulty I could cut it ; so that in clearing our way through this grass , eight or ten feet high , there was equal difficulty as in the woods , and it seemed to continue very near to the top of the mountain .
Being now about noon , I and the negroes were so fatigued as hardly to be able to stand ; our thirst very great , to allay which , as much as possible , we chewed the leaves of the Begonia obliqua .
Two of the negroes returned , and the others said they would go no farther with me , as they must perish for want of water , and it would be impossible to get to the bottom before night , and they must all die in the woods .
The propriety of their reasoning was evident to me ; yet I thought it hard , after the fatigues of three days and two nights , to be within half a mile of the top , and not be able to get up , and to know little more about it than I did at the bottom .
As the negroes had not the same motive for going up as I , all my reasoning was to them ineffectual ; I found I was obliged to return myself , as I could not persist alone .
At half past twelve we began to descend the same way we came .
As there was now a clear path all the way to the bottom , we got down to Mr. GASCO'S by sun-set .
After sitting some time here , I was hardly able to rise again , I was so tired ; and my feet were so sore I could hardly stand on them , for , my shoes being torn to pieces , I came down the whole way bare-footed .
I continued my journey , however , to Mr. MALOUNE'S , where I arrived between six and seven at night .
March 4th , being the day I had fixed to finish my excursion , about four in the morning , I left the house of Mr. FRASER , who out of curiosity agreed to accompany me , of which I was very glad , as he was a sensible young man ; and with the assistance of two negroes we pursued our journey .
We found very little obstruction in our way up , until we got to the place where I returned ; and there , for about a quarter of a mile , we had considerable difficulty to clear our way through grass and ferns .
After we came within a quarter of a mile from the top , we found ourselves in another climate all at once , the air very cold , and the vegetable productions changed ; here was nothing but barrenness over the whole summit of the mountain .
On the confines of the grassy region and the barren I found some beautiful plants .
Moss grows here in such plenty , that I frequently sunk up to my knees in it .
This is the only place in the West Indies that produced any moss that I have seen .
About noon we gained the top of the peak I had directed my course to before ; when , in an instant , we were surprised with one of the grandest and most awful scenes I had ever beheid .
I was struck with it amazingly , as I could not have conceived such a very large and so singularly formed an excavation .
It is situated on the center of the mountain , and where the various ridges unite .
Its diameter is something more than a mile , and its circumference to appearance a perfect circle .
Its depth from the surrounding margin is above a quarter of a mile , and it narrows a little , but very regularly , to the bottom .
Its sides are very smooth , and for the most part covered with short moss , except towards the south , where there are a number of small holes and rents .
This is the only place where it is possible to go down to the bottom : it is exceedingly dangerous , owing to the numberless small chasms .
On the west side is a section of red rock like granite , cut very smooth , and of the same declivity with the other parts .
All the rest of the surrounding sides seems to be composed of sand , that looks to have undergone the action of intense fire .
It has a crust quite smooth , of about an inch thick , and hard almost as rock ; after breaking through which , you find nothing but loose sand .
In the center of the bottom is a burning mountain of about a mile in circumference , of a conic form , but quite level .
On the summit , out of the center of the top , arises another mount , eight or ten feet high , a perfect cone ; from its apex issues a column of smoke .
It is composed of large masses of red granite-like rock of various sizes and shapes , which appear to have been split into their present magnitudes by some terrible convulsion of nature , and are piled up very regular .
From most parts of the mountain issue great quantities of smoke , especially on the north side , which appears to be burning from top to bottom , and the heat is so intense , that it is impossible to go upon it .
Going round the base is very dangerous , as large masses of rock are constantly splitting with the heat , and tumbling to the bottom .
At the bottom , on the north side , is a very large rock split in two ; each of these halves , which are separated to a considerable distance from each other , is rent in all directions , and from the crevices issue efflorescences of a glossy appearance , which taste like vitriol , and also beautiful crystallizations of sulphur .
On all parts of the mountain are great quantities of sulphur in all states ; also alum , vitriol , and other minerals .
From the external appearance of this mountain , I imagine it has only begun to burn lately , as on several parts of it I saw small shrubs and grass , which looked as if they had been lately scorched and burnt .
There are several holes on the south , from which issues smoke , seemingly broken out lately , as the bushes round are but lately burnt .
On two opposite sides of the burning mountain , east and west , reaching from its base to that of the side of the crater , are two lakes of water , about a stone 's throw in breadth ; they appear to be deep in the middle ; their bottom to be covered with a clay-like substance .
The water seems pleasant to the taste , and is of a chalybeate nature .
I suppose these lakes receive great increase , if they are not entirely supported , by the rain that tumbles down the side of the crater .
I observed on the north side of the bottom traces of beds of rivers , that to appearance run great quantities of water at times to both these lakes .
By the stones at their edges , I could perceive that either absorption or evaporation , or perhaps both , go on fast .
The greater part of the bottom of the crater , except the mountain and two lakes , is very level .
On the south part are several shrubs and small trees .
There are many stones in it that seem to be impregnated with minerals : I saw several pieces of pu3 mice mice-stone .
I also found many stones about the size of a man 's fist , rough , on one side blue , which appearance , I imagine , they have got from heat , and being in contact with some mineral .
These stones are scattered over the whole mountain , one or two of which I have sent you , with some others .
After I had got up from the bottom of the crater , I could not help viewing it with admiration , from its wonderful structure and regularity .
Here I found an excavation cut through the mountain and rocks to an amazing depth , and with as much regularity and proportion of its constituent parts , as if it had been planned by the hand of the most skilful mathematician .
I wished much to remain on the mountain all night , to examine its several ridges with more attention next day ; but I could not prevail on my companion to stay , and therefore thought it advisable to accompany him .
I observed the motion of the clouds on this mountain to be very singular .
Although there are several parts on it higher than the mouth of the crater , yet I saw their attraction was always to it .
After entering on its east or windward side , they sunk a considerable way into it ; then , mounting the opposite side , and whirling round the north-west side , they ran along a ridge , which tended nearly north-east , and afterwards sunk into a deep ravin , which divided this ridge from another on the north-west corner of the mountain , and the highest on it , lying in a direction nearly south and north .
They keep the course of this ridge to the south end , and then whirl off west in their natural course .
I took my departure from the mountain with great reluctance .
Although I encountered many difficulties to get up , yet it amply rewarded me for all my toil ; but I had not time to examine it with that attention I wished .
When I got on the peak from which I had my first view of it , and from~ which I could see its different parts , I could not help reviewing it several times .
After imprinting its structure on my mind , I took my final adieu of it , and returned down , and got to Mr. FRASER'S house about seven at night , much fatigued .
I am sorry I had no instruments , to take the state of the air , nor the exact dimensions of the different parts of the mountain ; but , I believe , on measurement , they will be more than I have mentioned .
From the situation of these islands to one another , and to the continent of South America , I imagine there are sub-marine communications between the burning mountains or volcanoes in each of them , and from them to the volcanoes on the high mountains of America .
The islands , which are situated next the continent , seem to tend in the direction of those mountains ; and I have observed , that the crater in this island lies nearly in a line with Soufriere in St. Lucia and Morn Pelee in Martinique , and I dare say from Morn Pelee to a place of the same kind in Dominique , and from it to the others ; as it is certain there is something of this kind in each of these islands , Barbadoes and Tobago excepted , which are quite out of the range of the rest .
There is no doubt but eruptions or different changes in some of them , although at a great distance , may be communicated to and affect the others in various manners .
It is observed by the inhabitants round these burning mountains , that shocks of earthquakes are frequent near them , and more sensibly felt than in other parts of the island , and the shocks always go in the direction of them .
I cannot omit mentioning the great assistance I received in the above excursion from Dr. YOUNG , Mr. MALOUNE , and Mr. FRASER ; for , without the aid of their negroes , I could not have possibly gone through with it .
References to the figure , tab .
II .
A 1 .
The summit that overlooks the crater , from which the drawing is taken .
AAAA .
The circumference of the crater .
BBBB .
The circumference of the bottom .
C. The burning mountain .
D. The small one on its summit .
EE .
The two lakes of water .
F. The section of the rock on the west side of the crater .
G. The large ravin .
HHHH .
Ravins of great depth .
I. Efflorescence on the north end of the rock , which at a distance looks like alum or nitre .
1.2.3.4.5.6 .
The different ridges on the summit of the mountain , as they join the crater .
7 .
Woods destroyed by the hurricane .
8.8 .
The clouds going to the southward of the west ridge , after passing north on the west side of the crater .
9.9.9 .
Where I descended into the bottom of the crater .
1 and 10 .
The summit and base of the ridge on which I ascended the mountain .
A 8 6 ~ 6D D 5 A I3 EE BCB FA 9 2 9B 9A 1 GH

