291 Notes on the Genus Toxoplasma , with a Description of Three New Species .
By H. G. Plimmer , F.R.S. , Professor of Comparative Pathology in the Imperial College of Science and Technology , London .
( Received February 25 , 1916 .
) [ Plates 9 and 10 .
] The genus Toxoplasma has not yet any definite systematic position .
By some , the organisms which bear this name are regarded as being allied to the Leishmania , and by others to the yeasts. .
This uncertainty must exist so long as we do not know the complete life-history of these organisms ; but , since any addition of new facts concerning them may help towards the acquisition of this knowledge , it has been thought worth while to record the finding of three new varieties , and to describe them .
The organisms were first seen by Splendore ( 1 ) , and were described by him in July , 1908 .
He found them in the blood of a rabbit in Brazil , and the name Toxoplasma was given to them by Nicolle and Manceaux(2 ) , who found them in a gondi in Tunis , shortly after Splendore 's discovery , and described them in October , 1908 .
Since then , others have been found in the dog by Mello in Italy and by Yakimoff in Germany , in the mole by Prowazek in Japan , and in the pigeon by Carini in Brazil .
It seems probable , so far as our knowledge of these organisms extends at present , that they are more nearly related to the Hsemogregarines than to any other of the Hsemosporidia ; they have no micronucleus , and therefore cannot belong to the Leishmania , as Nicolle and Manceaux thought , and the absence of a distinct capsule , and the fact that no budding process has been observed , should prevent them from being regarded as yeasts , as has been suggested .
The Toxoplasmas may occur free in the blood , but are generally found in the large mononuclear leucocytes ; their distribution in the body of the affected animal is often peculiar .
They give rise to very marked wasting and to considerable blood destruction , almost as marked as in the Babesia infections .
The Toxoplasmas are organisms of either a crescentic or bi-con vex shape , sometimes with pointed and sometimes with rounded ends ; occasionally , and under pressure , they may become nearly round .
There is no capsule or definite membrane to be seen around them .
The protoplasm is very fine VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; B. 2 B Prof. H. G. Plimmer .
and delicate , and sometimes contains vacuoles .
They are , on this account , difficult to fix satisfactorily .
I have found that fixation by the vapour of iodine dissolved in chloroform , as described by me in * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 86 , p. 389 , gave the best results .
The nucleus consists , in what may be regarded as a normal parasite , of a round dot or karyosome , which , before division of the cell , lengthens and becomes rod-shaped and then dumb-bellshaped .
Rarely , a ring form of nucleus may be found , as in Plate 9 , fig. 6 .
In many of the organisms the nucleus is either broken up into granules , or the cell gets filled with granules which take chromatin stains ( haema-toxylin , fuchsin , thionin , have been those used ) , so that they are indistinguishable from the nucleus .
These granules may be the so-called " infective granules , " such as have been described by the late Major W. B. Fry and Captain Ranken , V.C. ( 3 ) , in Trypanosomes , which the late Prof. Minchin ( 4 ) acknowledged in the last paper written by him ; for the amount of ordinary division seen does not seem to correspond with the enormous number of parasites found in individual leucocytes .
They have none of , them the reaction , with iodine fixation , of the reserve food granules seen in Trypanosomes .
The varieties of Toxoplasma I have found in a fossa , a fruit pigeon , and a Say 's snake , showed no motility when examined fresh , even on the warm stage , neither did I observe any changes of shape .
As regards size , the organisms vary too much in the same animal for very approximate measurements to be of much use .
In the fossa they were the smallest , and varied from 2 / a to 8 yu .
in straight length from end to end , and from 1*4 fi'XiO 2*5 ft in breadth at middle .
In the fruit pigeon the length varied from 3 ya to 8 ya , and the breadth from 2 ya to 5 ya. Those found in Say 's snake were larger , and varied from 7 ya to lOyain length , and from 3 ya to 6 ya in breadth .
These measurements were made on fresh , unfixed organisms .
In all these cases the Toxoplasmas were found free in the blood , but in very small numbers ; they were generally found in the large mononuclear leucocytes from the affected organs , often occurring in enormous numbers .
They were found principally in the lungs and pleural effusion and in the bone-marrow in the fossa ; in the lungs and exudation from the lungs in the fruit pigeon , and in the liver in Say 's snake .
None were found in the bone-marrow of the bird or snake .
The infected leucocytes show but little alteration in the early stages of the infection , when they contain only one or two parasites , but as these multiply the leucocyte enlarges enormously , and the protoplasm becomes extremely thin and frothy in texture , and there is always a marked hyperchromatosis of the nucleus ; the cell eventually Notes on the Genus Toxoplasma .
breaks up .
The parasites are sometimes found in the nucleus itself ; of this an example is shown in Plate 9 , fig. 2 .
There is a tendency for these leucocytes to mass themselves together , but no true giant-cells are formed* Very few parasites were found in the endothelial cells of these three animals ; a few were found in the omentum of the fossa and in the mesentery of the fruit pigeon .
This is quite contrary to the experience of Miss H. L. M. Pixell ( 5 ) , who found cells containing large numbers of the parasites from these situations .
The multiplication of the Toxoplasmas is effected ordinarily by longitudinal division .
The nucleus first enlarges , then becomes rod-shaped , and later of dumb-bell shape , and eventually the daughter nuclei are formed , the cell having already begun to divide .
I have seen no example of transverse division in these cases .
In the bone-marrow of the fossa several round cysts were found in enlarged leucocytes , which suggested schizogony ( Plate 9 , fig. 3 ) , and these are somewhat like the schizont in the Coccidia when it is about to divide up into merozoits ; and in the Say 's snake ( Plate 10 , fig. 9 ) there is a structure which is apparently a later stage , showing the formation of merozoits .
No flagellated forms have been seen .
Many attempts at cultivation in various media were made , but none were successful .
The Toxoplasma has a very wide geographical as well as zoological distribution .
The three cases here recorded came respectively from Madagascar , the Aru Islands , and Mexico , and those previously described by various observers were found in Brazil , Tunis , Italy , Japan , and Germany .
The varieties to be described were found in the course of the post-mortem examination of the animals which have died in the Zoological Gardens , and the following paragraphs will indicate the distribution of the parasites and the points of difference between them :\#151 ; I. Fossa , Cryptoprocta ferox , from Madagascar .
Plate 9 , figs. 1-3 .
The animal was very wasted .
Both pleural , peritoneal , and pericardial cavities contained a quantity of blood-stained fluid .
The lungs and kidneys were very congested , and there was a layer of lymph on the under-surface of the diaphragm .
The blood was extremely anaemic , and contained many poikilocytes and nucleated erythrocytes .
A few Toxoplasmas were found in the blood ; many were found in the blood from the lung , and in the pleural and peritoneal exudation , and in the bone-marrow .
Few were found free ; nearly all were contained in the large mononuclear leucocytes , often a great number , as many as 36 , in a single leucocyte .
The leucocytes were very much enlarged , and their protoplasm was extremely thin and delicate , many Prof. H. G. Plimmer .
being ruptured in the preparation of the film , even with the greatest care .
The nucleus of the leucocyte invariably showed signs of hyperchromatosis , often very marked .
The nucleus of the parasite was often broken up into granules , or chromidia , but many showed the single dot form with a clear area around .
Sometimes the Toxoplasma was found in the nucleus itself ( Plate 9 , fig. 2 ) .
Schizonts were found in the bone-marrow in various stages up to the apparent breaking up into merozoits ( Plate 9 , fig. 3 ) .
Occasionally the parasites were found in the polynuclear cells , in the bone-marrow : this was possibly a phagocytic process , as the shapes of the ingested parasites were much altered .
II .
Blue-tailed Fruit Pigeon , Carpophaga concinna , from the Aru Islands .
Plate 9 , figs. 4-6 ; Plate 10 , fig. 10 .
Died in an emaciated condition .
The lungs were very congested , and .contained a large quantity of exudation .
There was some bloody fluid in the body cavity .
Yery few parasites were found in the blood , but large numbers were present in the blood and exudation from the lungs .
Some were found free , but they were mostly contained in the large mononuclear leucocytes .
These cells had undergone more destruction than was the case in the fossa , and the blood was extremely anaemic .
The nucleus of the Toxoplasma was generally single and definite , and was not broken up into ; granules .
A few were found in the bone-marrow , but none showing definite schizogony .
The drawing , reproduced in Plate 10 , fig. 10 , was made to scale from an unfixed preparation , just tinted with 1-2000 methylene blue in 0*8 per cent , salt solution .
At 1 , there are ordinary forms of the Toxoplasma ; at 2 , a form with the nucleus in form of chromidia or granules ; at 3 , a large mononuclear leucocyte containing several parasites , some quite differentiated ; and at 4 , possibly an early stage of schizogony .
III .
Say 's Snake , Coluber melanoleucus , from Mexico .
Plate 10 , figs. 7-9 .
The snake was very wasted , and its blood , which was very anaemic , contained a few haemogregarines .
The lung was pneumonic and full , of exudation ; the liver was small and pale .
Toxoplasmas were found in small numbers in the exudation from the lung , and in enormous numbers in the liver ; a few single ones in the blood .
The above is all that it has been possible to find in this material .
A careful watch is being kept for new cases , from which it is hoped to obtain material which will enable the knowledge of , this curious parasite to be carried further .
Notes on the Genus Toxoplasma .
I am much indebted to Mr. A. T. Watson , the laboratory assistant at the Zoological Gardens , for very intelligent help in the preparation of the specimens , and to Dr. A. Norman for the photographs of a difficult object .
[ Note added May 1 , 1916.\#151 ; Since the above was written I have found Toxoplasmas in another bird , a Pied Bush Chat ( Pratincola ) from India .
They were found in the blood and exudation from the lungs , which were inflamed and oedematous , in the mononuclear leucocytes as before .
Further early stages of schizogony were found in the large endothelial cells in the lungs .
] REFERENCES .
1 .
Splendore , A. " Um novo Protozoo parasita de conigli , " * Rev. da Soc. Scientifica de S. Paulo , ' Nob .
10-12 , 1908 .
2 .
Nicolle , C. , and Manceaux , L. " Sir un infection corps de Leishman du Gondi .
" ' Count .
Rend .
, ' October , 1908 , and February , 1909 .
3 .
Fry , W. B. , and Ranken , H. S. " The Extrusion of Granules by Trypanosomes , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 84 , p. 79 , and vol. 86 , p. 380 .
4 .
Minchin , E. A. " On the So-called ' Infective Granules , ' " ' Ann. de l'Institut Pasteur , ' vol. 29 , p. 537 .
5 .
Pixell , H. L. M. " Notes on Toxoplasma g , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , p. 67 .
EXPLANATION OF PLATES 9 AND 10 .
Figs. 1-3 , from Fossa .
The preparations were photographed under a magnification of 1000 diameters .
They were fixed wet in the vapour of iodine dissolved in chloroform , and were stained with Giemsa 's stain , made alkaline , and followed by acetone and xylol .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Mononuclear leucocyte in blood from lung , showing enlargement of leucocyte , and the delicate , frothy protoplasm , with hyperchromatosis of the nucleus .
The leucocyte contains two parasites , one of ordinary shape just to left of nucleus , and a larger one with undefined extremities at the upper part of the cell .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Two mononuclear leucocytes from the peritoneal exudation , both showing hyperchromatosis of the nuclei .
The cells are filled with parasites , and in the cell on the left the nuclei of the parasites are broken up into granules .
In this cell a parasite is seen in the nucleus .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; A large mononuclear leucocyte from the bone-marrow , with considerable hyperchromatosis of the nucleus , containing a mass of parasites , apparently in process of schizogony , and of breaking up into merozoits .
These were found in many stages .
Figs. 4-6 and 10 , from Fruit Pigeon .
Fig. 4 fixed by the method of Carnoy-Lebrun , and stained with Weigert 's hsema-toxylin .
Figs. 5 and 6 fixed and stained as Figs. 1-3 .
Photographed x 1000 .
296 Notes on the Genus Toxoplasma .
Eig .
4.\#151 ; From exudation from lung , showing three free toxoplasmas to the right , and to the left a mononuclear leucocyte , with a hyperchromatic nucleus , containing parasites , two apparently in late stage of division .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; From same exudation , showing three free toxoplasmas at upper part , a large mononuclear leucocyte containing one parasite on right , and a similar cell containing several on the left .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; From blood from lung , showing a large mononuclear leucocyte containing several toxoplasmas .
Below the hyperchromatic nucleus can be seen two parasites with ring-shaped nuclei .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; -Drawing made from fresh unfixed specimen of exudation from Fruit Pigeon 's lung .
1 .
Ordinary toxoplasmas .
2 .
Form with nucleus in form of granules ' # 3 .
Large mononuclear leucocyte containing parasites .
4 .
Probably an early stage of schizogony .
Figs. 7-9 , from Say 's Snake .
Fig. 7 fixed in vapour of iodine dissolved in chloroform and stained with alkaline Giemsa 's stain .
Fig. 8 fixed by method of Carnoy-Lebrun and stained with Weigert 's htematoxylin .
Fig. 9 fixed as Fig. 8 and stained with alkaline Giemsa 's stain .
Photographed x 1000 .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; From liver , showing a fusion of three large mononuclear cells containing a number of parasites .
It will be noticed that the toxoplasmas lie in vacuoles , and that they are larger than those in either the mammal or the bird .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; From liver , showing one very distended mononuclear leucocyte , with nucleus-about to break up , and with very delicate frothy protoplasm , apparently about to give way , containing 14 parasites , each lying in a distinct vacuole .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; A section from the liver , showing several free toxoplasmata in lower part , and above what is probably a later stage of schizogony than that shown in Plate 9 , fig 3 , as the shape of the parasites is more defined .
Himmer , Roy .
Soc. Proc. B , , 89 , PI .
Wm jdjH l 1 * FIG. 6 .
FIG. 3 .
0mr- Boy .
Soc. Proe , B. , S9\gt ;

