A paper was in part read , entitled " Observations on the minute structure of the higher forms of Polypi , with observations on their classification .
" By Arthur Far , M.6 .
Communicated by Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S. June 15 , 1837 .
FRANCIS BAILEY , Esq. , V.P. and Treasurer , in the Chair .
James F. W. Johnston , Esq. , A.M. , was elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following papers were then read , viz. : i7d il Observations on the minute structure of some of the higher forms of Polypi , with views of a more natural arrangement of the class .
" By Arthur Far , M.B. , Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
After a short account of the labours of preceding naturalists in that department of zoology which comprises the various kinds of polypes , and of the different characters on which they have founded the classification of these animals , the author proceeds to the state ?
meant of his own observations on several species which had not been previously investigated with sufficient minuteness and care .
Two of the species described he believes to be entirely new , and he has accordingly given them the names of Bowerbankia densa , and Lagenella repens .
The other species which are the subject of the author 's investigation , are Vesicularia spinosa , Valkeria cuscuta , Alcyonidium diaphanum , Membranipora pilosa , and Notania loriculata .
He then discusses the principles on which the classification of this tribe of zoophytes should be founded , and proposes on these principles to give the name of Ciliobrachiata to the whole group of polypes characterised by the possession of ciliated tentacula , and a free alimentary canal with two orifices : this group again he divides into two suhordinate groups , namely , the IJydriform and the Actiniform , or Zoanlhiform polypes .
Under the title of Nudibrachiata he proposes to comprehend all those polypes which partake of the nature of the hydra , and whose tentacula are unprovided with cilia , corresponding to the Anihozoa of Ehrenberg .

