218 ing , as they do , a communication between the external surface and the nervous structure within , they communicate impressions , and are in fact tactile organs .
The author had satisfied himself , before the appearance of Dr. Hiackel 's paper , that the hairs were connected with the inner layers of the corium , and not with the chitinogenous membrane only ; and he had seen indications in the lobster and larger Crustacea of an arrangement of the pulp corresponding to the arrangement of the hairs .
In the smaller Crustacea , especially in the shrimps , he found a remarkable confirmation of his views .
In the flabelliform processes , and even in the claws in these animals , he found that the structures within the shell were arranged in the form of tubes corresponding to the hairs , through which passed from the deeper parts , fibres which were prolonged into the hair-canals .
In the claw the nerve was traced to the inner termination of these tubes .
The tubes in some instances merged internally into the general mass of the corium ; in others they were truncated .
Externally , or towards the margins , they presented open orifices , through which the fibres passed .
The fibres , when drawn out from the hair-canals , often presented the plumose or serrated character , according to the form of hair to which they belonged .
They could be traced for some distance down the tubes , and at times completely through them , but their deep connexions could not be clearly made out .
Several modifications of this arrangement are described and figured .
The author believes that the facts brought forward are sufficient to establish that the hairs of the Crustacea are probably organs by which external impressions are communicated to the internal sensitive parts .
III .
" ( Note on the Measurement of Gases in Analysis .
" By A. W. WILLIAMSON , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in University College , and W. J. RUSSELL , Ph. D. Comimunicated by Dr. WILLIAMSON .
Received April 6 , 1858 .
In Bunsen 's admirable method of gas analysis , considerable time and trouble are expended in observing the exact temperature and pressure to which the gas is subjected at the time of measurement ; and also in calculating from these data the volume which the gas would occupy at the normal temperature and pressure .
Frankland 's 219 excellent apparatus , on the other hand , protects the gas from the influence of variations of atmospheric pressure , and , under favourable conditions , even from the influence of change of temperature ; but the complication of this apparatus , and its liability to derangement , seem likely somewhat to limit its use .
If , when a fall of temperature takes place , we could diminish the pressure on the gas exactly in proportion to the diminution of elasticity which it undergoes , such fall of temperature would evidently not alter the volume of gas in the eudiometer .
In like manner a rise of temperature might , if known , be counteracted by lowering the eudiometer-tube .
The same remarks apply to variations of barometric pressure ; as an increase of this influence might be counterbalanced by raising the eudiometer , and a diminution by depressing it .
It is therefore a question of some interest to find , for any atmospheric temperature and pressure , at what height of the eudiometer the enclosed gas will occupy the same volume as at the normal temperature and pressure .
This is easily found by introducing a standard quantity of air into a tube over mercury , marking off the height of the mercury in the tube at the normal temperature and pressure ; then , at any other temperature or pressure , raising or lowering the tube in the mercurial trough so as exactly to bring the enclosed air to its normal volume .
The mercurial pressure needed for this purpose is evidently the same as that needed under the same circumstances for the reduction of any quantity of gas to the volume which it would occupy at the normal temperature and pressure .
The apparatus we use in applying this principle to gas analysis ( fig. 1 ) consists essentially of the ordinary Bunsen 's eudiometer , and a " pressure-tube , " which is simply a tube of some 6 or 7 inches in length , and about the diameter of an ordinary eudiometer .
It is closed at one end , and to the other is fixed a smaller tube of about the same length .
Such a quantity of air is introduced into this pressure-tube , that when it is inverted in the trough the mercury stands at a convenient height in the narrow tube .
At this point a mark is made , which indicates the height of mercury needed at any temperature or pressure to reduce the enclosed air to its original volume .
The mercurial trough which we have used differs only from the ordinary one in being provided with a well at one end , thus 221 enabling the operator to raise or depress the eudiometer at pleasure , so as always to bring the gas which it contains to the same pressure as the air in the pressure-tube .
Both the eudiometer and the pressure-tube are held in a perpendicular position by means of clamps which slide on upright rods .
Each clamp is provided with a simple kind of slow movement , by which the tube can be raised or lowered by the operator whilst he is looking through a horizontal telescope at a suitable distance .
We place the pressure-tube in front of the eudiometer , and by means of the fine adjustment bring the column of mercury in the small tube exactly to ' the normal mark .
The eudiometer is then adjusted , also by means of the slow movement , so that the top of its meniscus ( as seen through the horizontal telescope ) exactly coincides with the top of the meniscus in the pressure-tube .
This is easily done ; for the diameter of the pressuretube is considerably smaller than that of the eudiometer , and the meniscus in the latter can be clearly seen on both sides of the meniscus in the pressure-tube .
By this method we are able to obtain very accurate results with considerably less trouble than by Bunsen 's method , and also without having any calculations to perform .
The following analyses made during very stormy weather , of air deprived of its carbonic acid by potash , gave results amongst which the greatest difference was only four hundredths of a per cent. ( -04 ) .
I. Volume of air taken .
144*81 After addition of hydrogen. .
234'50 After explosion ... 144'00 Nitrogen ... 79-168 Oxygen ... 20-832 100-000 II .
Volume of air taken. .
139-55 After addition of hydrogen 229-07 After explosion ... . .
141-89 Nitrogen ... 79-176 Oxygen ... 20-824 100-000 222 IIIl Volume of air taken ... 148*1 After addition of hydrogen. .
236'04 After explosion ... 1433(0 Nitrogen. .
79-139 Oxygen ... 20861 100-000 IV .
Volume of air taken ... 149 14 After addition of hydrogen. .
248-57 After explosion ... .
155*28 Nitrogen. .
79150 Oxygen ... 20'850 100'000 We are still engaged in experiments on this and some other points of gas analysis , and hope to have the honour of communicating our results before long .
DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES .
Fig. 1 represents the whole apparatus .
Fig. 2 represents the clamp with the fine adjustment attached to it .
A is the part which slides up and down the vertical rod ; it is furnished on the inside with a small steel peg which moves in a groove , thus causing this arm always to remain in the same plane .
CD is a tube through which the rod F carrying the clamp passes .
E is a screw which retains the rod F in its place , and by means of which the friction of the rod passing through the tube can be increased .
G is the fine adjustment .
As this small cylinder is turned round to the right or to the left , so the string either above or below it is wound on to it , and consequently the rod F raised or lowered .
H is merely an arrangement by which the string can always be tightened .
K is a peg so placed with regard to the stop L , that when , by turning the clamp round , it is pressed against the stop , the tube is then in the right position for applying the final adjustment and reading off .

