II .
An Account of some Experiments , touching the Electricity and Light producible on the Attrition of several Bodies .
By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. ACcording to the Commands of the Society , I have made the following Experiments .
I caus 'd a piece of Wood to be turned into the form of a short Cylinder , it being about four Inches Diameter , and three in length .
This being fixed on an Axis , I melted in a Ladle about a Pound and half of the best Sealing-Wax I could procure , and when it was fluid , I plunged the Wooden Cylinder into it , where I kept it moving round till it had got a Coat of it about half an Inch thick on its Surface , ( I mean that part of it which is most remote from its Axis : ) when it was perfectly cold , I placed it on the Machine , which gave Motion to it by a large Wheel ( as usual in the Experiments on the Attrition of the Globe Glass ; ) after the Motion and Attrition had been continued some small time , I held the Hoop of Threads over the Cylinder , which were attracted and directed towards its Center , as in the like Experiment made with the Globe Glass .
The Threads likewise , while they remained directed , would fly the Approach of a Finger .
Thus in all Respects relating to Electricity , the Effluvia of Wax seems very agreeable to those producible on the Attrition of Glass : For on rubbing a Stick of the same premention 'd Wax , the Leaf Brass would be attracted , and returned with great Velocity ; and sometimes a Piece of the same Brass might be carried all about a Room , seemingly riding or floating on the Surface of its Effluvia .
In short , I find no difference in the Laws of the different Effluvia , tho ' those of Glass seem to be much the strongest , and to act with the greatest Vigour .
Thus far the Day light Experiments .
Upon the Approach of Night , I caused the same Motion to be given to the Wax Cylinder ( begging leave to call it so ) as I had done in the Day time , to see what Light might then be produced on the Attrition of it .
I applied some clean new Flannel on it , but could discover little or no Light ; yet afterwards upon holding my naked hand , as usual , on the Glass Globe , a considerable Light was visible , tho only where the Attrition was made , nor would it live any longer than the Motion .
I tried if a Light would be communicated to one 's Finger approached near it , ( as in the Experiment of the premention 'd Glass , ) but could obtain no such Appearance without touching it .
This in a great measure bespeaks the Weakness of its Effluvia .
I likewise have tried what Light might be produced from it , by giving Motion to it in Vacuo ; and altho I was forced to use Flannel there , yet a very distinguishing Light appeared on each Arm of the Brass Spring that gently embraced it ; and doubt not , but if my Hand could be made use of to rub the Wax in such a Medium , the Light would have been much greater : For the Light produced upon the Attrition of the Flannel on the Wax in Vacuo , was rather better than that which was produced upon the Attrition of it with my naked Hand in common Air .
From all which Experiments it appears to me , that the largeness or littleness of Light or Attraction , producible from Bodies by Attrition , proceeds from the Number and Strength of their Respective Effluvia , and so of all Bodies reciprocally falling under the same Classis .
Now whether these several Phenomenon are attributable to the Quality of the Lac , or Vermillion , ( which I take to be the sole Compound of the Wax ; ) or , whether the Mixtion of both these Bodies is absolutely necessary in the Production of these Appearances , is worthy Enquiry .
A Continuation of these Experiments .
I have farther pursued the Experiments on the Electricity of different Bodies in the following manner .
I caused two Wooden Cylinders to be Turned , of the same Dimensions as mentioned in the Experiment of the Sealing-Wax ; and in the same manner as in that , I coated their outward Surfaces , one with melted Sulphur , the other with Colophony or Rosin mixed with Brick-dust , ( which was put into it on purpose to bind and make it more hard ; and first the Cylinder , which was cloathed with the melted Flowers of Sulphur , I fixed to give Motion to it as usual in Experiments of this kind ; and after my Hand had been held o n't a little while , I caused the Motion to be stopped , then bringing near it the Hoop with Threads , mentioned in former Experiments , the Threads were attracted and directed to its Center , but nothing so strongly as to the Sealing-Wax .
And this upon several Trials was much the same .
Then I tried the Rosin in the same manner , and found the Electrical Quality in that much stronger than the former : For the Threads were driven towards its Center , seemingly with greater Vigour than that of the Sealing-Wax ; but the Rosin at that time was not quite cold from its being melted .
In both these Experiments the Threads would fly the Approach of one 's Finger ; but if Sealing-Wax or Amber were held near them , they would very eagerly fly and adhere to them without being rubbed ; and that is what I never took notice of before .
I farther observed , that the Rosin , while warm , would attract Leaf-Brass at an Inch or two distance without any Attrition .
But next day when I came to repeat the Experiment , its Electricity was so inconsiderable , as well as that of the Sulphur , that I did not think them worthy to trouble the Society with the sight of 'em , altho the knowledge of their Performances may not be altogether unnecessary .
At Night I tried what Light these Bodies would afford on their Attrition in the Dark , but could produce none from the Rosin , nor indeed but very little from the Sulphur , and that not by my Hand , but by holding the ends of my Nails very hard on it while it was in motion .
I tried likewise whether the Sulphur would emit any Light by its Attrition in the Dark in Vacuo , but could discover none altho diligently endeavoured .
The most surprising of all Experiments that I have met with yet , are the following .
I took my Glass Globe that I use for showing the Experiment of the included Threads , which would point every way from the Center to the Circumference upon the Attrition of it ; and in that state a Motion might be given those Threads , by the Approach of one 's Hand near its outside .
But this proceeded from the Effluvia of its own Body exerted by rubbing , therefore not so much to be wondred at .
But that those Threads contained in the same Globe , should have motion given them by the Effluvia of an Heterogeneous Body separate from it , and the Globe at the same time to have no manner of motion or Attrition given it , is very amazing ; and that it is so , is matter of fact .
For when I held rubbed Sealing Wax near the outside of the Globe , the Threads within would have motion given them in a very astonishing manner , altho ' the Body of Wax touched not the Glass by 3 or 4 Inches .
The like I found might be performed formed by a rubbed Glass Tube , or by Amber ; and if the Threads were placed in a Bottle well cork 'd up , or any other close Glass , I suppose it would answer the same .
This Discovery was made this day , being the 23d of June , 1708 .
and I doubt not but to carry it farther than what I here now give an Account of .
POSTSCRIP T. I have since repeated this Experiment with Leaf-Brass covered with a Glass Dish on a Table , and it was observable , that ( altho ' the Dish was very thick ) upon holding the well rubbed Sealing Wax over it , the Pieces of Leaf-Brass within would have a brisk Motion given them , and continue so a considerable time , 'ere the Wax would require any fresh Attrition .
But this Appearance will not always succeed ; for some time after endeavouring the same Experiment , I could by no means make it answer as before : The Temperature of the Air being then altered , its moist Effluvia were condensed on the Glass ; and so long as it remained under such Circumstance , it was attempting it in vain .
But I found , that if the Glass was a little warmed by the Fire , or placed a while in the Sunshine , or well rub 'd with a warm dry Linen Cloath ; any of which , whereby the Humid Effluvia might be evaporated , that then the included Pieces of Leaf-Brass would , from the affricated Wax , have as brisk a Motion given them as before .
Now , whether the Fire , Sunshine , or the rubbing the Glass with a warm dry Linen Cloath , not only clears it from the moist Effluvia condensed on it , but likewise gives motion to the Particles of the Glass itself : Which Motion seems to produce Effluvia , which in conjuction with that of the Sealing-Wax , facilitates its Action on the premention 'd Bodies ; and that it does so , I conclude from this Particular : That when I had warmed the Glass by the Fire , or had evaporated the Humid Effluvia by any of the other means , I found I could give Motion to the included Brass Bodies , by only rubbing my Finger on the outside of it , without the assistance of the Wax .
But at such a time when the well rubbed Wax was held over it , the Motion of those Bodies would be much increased ; and it was observable , that sometimes the Brass Bodies would continue to be in Motion , after the Wax was withdrawn from them .
But if the Air be naturally warm , and free from Humid Vapours , there needs none of the prementioned means to assist the Effluvia of the Wax to give Motion to the included Brass Bodies : Yet at the same time I must believe , that the Particles of the Glass are then in a greater Motion , than when the Experiment will not succeed .
And it is very probable I had never discovered this odd Phenomenon , had I first attempted it at an improper Temperature of the Air ; which will caution me another time in Experiments of this Nature , not to conclude till I have had recourse to such helps as just now related .
What farther I have to take notice of is , that the Effluvia of the Wax may very sensibly be felt on the Back of the Hand , the Wax being moved to and fro near it , as I have formerly taken notice of the like sensible Stroaks given by the Effluvia of Glass .

