]\gt ; Note on the Effect of Hydrogen on the of Electricity from Hot Platinum .
By Professor H. A. WILSON , F.B.S. , King 's , London .
( Received October 6 , \mdash ; Read November 19 , 1908 .
) In a recent paperlon " " The Effect of Hydrogen on the Discharge of Negative Electricity from Hot Platinum , a calculation of the thickness of the double layer on the surface and of the number of free electrons inside the .
Professor O. W. Richardson has pointed out to me that two terms in of the equations , one of which I discarded as being small compared , ith } other , are really of the same order of nitude .
The results of the calculation are consequently wrong , and the estimate of the number of free electrons is considerably too high .
The difficulty mentioned in the paper , that the required to raise the temperature of the electrons is apparently reater than that required to raise the temperatul.e of the platinmn , consequently disappears .
In the equation the terms and 1 are quite igible compared with , so that we get , which gives , without further approximation , .
Substituting , and , this gives .
Comparing this with , we .
'Phil .
Trans vol. 208 , A 432 . .
cit. , p. 270 .
On the of Electricity Hot Platmum .
Now , since , we see that is equal to the gas constant ; hence .
Hence If we take two values of , and , and the corresponding values and , we get This equation , with the values found for A and , gives hence .
The expression for then gives the values : Q. A. cm .
The five values of agree as well as could be expected .
ince and is about , we get .
Patterson* calculated the number of free electrons per cubic centimetre of platinum from the change in its resistance due to a magnetic field , on J. J. Thomson 's theory , and got It is interesting to apply the formula for to platinum polarised with hydrogen in dilute sulphuric acid .
The potential fall in this case is about volt , which corresponds to a value of about .
If , then , we suppose to be small , which is the case in at high pressures , we get , which gives , at cm .
The thickness of the double layer in this case has been estimated by several observers from the polarisation capacity and found to be about cm .
' Phil. Mag 6 , vol. 3 , p. 643 .

