On the Production of Artificial Cold by Means of Muriate of Lime .
By Mr. Richard Walker .
Communicated by Henry Cavendish , Esq. F.R.S. Read January 22 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 120 .
] Mr. Walker , since his late communications to the Society on the best means of producing artificial cold , received intelligence that Mr. Lowitz , Professor of Chemistry at Petersburgh , had made some experiments , in which a neutral salt different from those he had himself used , and which is but little known or attended to , produced effects which exceeded his expectations .
The salt is the muriated lime ; which , mixed with snow in the proportion of about 3 to 2 , at the temperature of + 27 ?
, produced a refrigeration which sunk the thermometer to -55 ?
; and with this mixture the Professor in one experiment froze no less than 351bs of quicksilver .
Mr. Walker repeated the experiment with success ; but finding that it can only be made during a freezing atmosphere , he resolved to try the effect of this salt , reduced to such a strength by evaporation as to endure being kept in a solid state throughout the year .
After describing the expedients used for this purpose , he enumerates the results of two sets of experiments ; the first made with the muriated lime prepared so as to be used in winter only , that is , of the specific strength of 1 450 ; and the other made with the salt prepared so as to be kept for use at any time , the strength of which was 1-490 .
The apparatus here used ( though somewhat improved ) is not unlike that described in Mr. Walker 's former communication , nor is the process materially different .
The paper concludes with a general view of the different frigorific mixtures:-l st , those composed of chemical substances with ice ; and 2nd , those in which the use of ice is dispensed with .
In a postscript the author suggests a method of obtaining transparent ice , fit for optical purposes , which is effected merely by immersing a vessel containing a frigorific mixture in water : by this means he has frequently obtained a pellucid coating of ice on the outside of the vessels , of considerable thickness , and , by adapting the form of the vessel , of any figure that might be required .

