494 On Auxiliary Forces concerned in the Circulation [ Apr. 24r is suddenly emptied , as immediately after delivery in woman , this resistance is at the lowest , consequently the effect of descent of the diaphragm on the circulation is but slight , compared with that state which obtains when the parietes are in a high state of health , and the intestines are fully distended with gas , \amp ; c. It must be evident that the amount of blood contained in the vessels within the abdomen must vary much , according to the tension of the parietes ; but this matter does not belong to the subject of this note .
III .
" Note on the Auxiliary Forces concerned in the Circulation of the Pregnant Uterus and its Contents in Woman .
" By J. Braxton Hicks , M.D. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , \amp ; c. Received March 26 , 1879 .
Whatever view we may take of the structure of the placenta , it is generally admitted that both in the large sinuses in the walls of the pregnant uterus , and also in the decidual processes in the placenta as well as in the intervillal spaces the motion of the fluids can be but very slow , that is , if the circulation wholly depended upon the maternal cardiac impulse .
However , in 1871 , * I pointed out a fact which had not been before observed , that the uterus was in the habit normally of alternately relaxing and contracting every five , ten , or twenty minutes during the whole of the pregnancy from the earliest period , at least from the second month , and not as had before been believed only under irritation , and towards the end of gestation .
This movement is doubtless homologous with the peristaltic movements in the uteri of the lower animals .
In that paper I pointed out\#151 ; 1st , that these movements of the uterus provide for the frequent movement of the blood in the uterine sinuses and the decidual processes ; and , 2ndly , that they facilitate the movement of the fluid in the intervillal space of the placenta , or in that which has been called the placenta sinuses , and I remarked , " Whatever view we may hold of the structure of the placenta , whether on the one hand there be blood amongst the villi in maternal sinuses , or on the other merely a serous fluid , in any case it is through one or the other medium the villi absorb the material for the aeration of the foetal blood ; and there can be no doubt that from its position it must be in a more or less stagnant state .
It is not difficult , therefore , to recognise the effect which the change in the solidity and shape must produce on the fluids in the placenta , as well as in the uterine walls .
* " Obst .
Trans. Lond. , " vol. xii .
" On the Contractions of the Uterus during Pregnancy : their Physiological Effects and Value in the Diagnosis of Pregnancy .
" 1879 .
] of the Pregnant Uterus and its Contents in 495 In other words , these contractions of the uterus act as a kind of supplementary heart to these fluids .
" To this force I have now to add the effect of the respiratory movements on the gravid uterus and its contents .
Any one who places his hand on the abdomen of a pregnant woman over the centre of the uterus will be conscious of the projecting forward of the uterine wall .
But I presume this has been supposed hitherto to be merely the projection of the uterus en mass .
Admitting that a slight portion of the movement is owing to that , I shall endeavour to show that the much greater portion of the movement is due to the bulging out of the walls by the downward pressure on the fundus during inspiration .
This is best demonstrated by a cardiograph constructed with a button tambour , supported by three legs , capable of being adapted by screws to the proper length ; these should be as far apart as possible , four inches or so .
The patient should be placed on her back , and the tambour tied gently on to the abdomen by a tape passed round the back .
The drum being set revolving , the respiratory movement is traced .
The respiratory markings are very regular considering the circumstances , interrupted at irregular intervals by the foetal movements , coughing , and other movements of the body .
Normal Respiratory Wave over Pregnant Uterus .
The swJ-readings depending probably on arterial impulse of mother j and of the foetus .
Now , it is clear that the readings express the difference of elevation of the uterine wall between the tambour button and the circle enclosed by the legs ; in fact , the amount of the bulging of the wall within 2 o 2 496 On Auxiliary Forces concerned in the Circulation [ Apr. 24 , that area .
If it were not so , and but the pushing forward of the mass , no difference would exist , and , consequently , no reading obtained .
And this is proved by observing the effect on the readings when the uterine contractions occur , to which I alluded at the commencement of this note ; for , when these supervene , we find the respiratory readings reduced almost to nothing , and , instead of the high elevation waves of the tracing , well shown before , the line is nearly level .
Thus , when the uterus , in consequence of the increased firmness of its walls , cannot be impressed nor can bulge , we have the effect of the descent of the diaphragm to a similar extent reduced .
This being admitted , it is clear that every respiratory action causes a movement of the fluids contained within the uterus , thus assisting the circulation in a part apparently removed from the maternal cardiac impetus .
It may be worthy of notice , that at the earlier period of pregnancy , the uterine walls are less yielding , and , therefore , less influenced by the respiratory act , but then the assistance this renders at a later period is not so much required , because neither are the sinuses so large nor the decidual processes with their sinuses so deep , nor the thickness of the placenta so great .
Gradually as the uterus increases , its walls are more yielding and the force of the respiratory movement more felt within .
.terine contraction .
co ntractio n s ubstdin^ .
contraction , passed , cff .
The effects of Uterine Contractions during Pregnancy in reducing the height of the Respiratory Wave is seen by comparing the first line with the last .
This tracing was taken with a smaller instrument .
There are other points of interest in this registration of the respiratory movements of the abdomen , which do not belong to the subject under consideration , and are , therefore , omitted here .
But there are other accessory forces to be noticed which act on the surface of the pregnant uterus , tending to the movement of the fluids within ; namely , the muscular movements of the body , tending to cause a change of shape of the thorax or abdomen .
These are quickly shown by the same arrangements as that by which the ordinary respiration is shown .
The elevation of the arm , a hoist of the body , and , in particular , coughing , show a much greater force than is exerted by inspiration .
Hence , one might fairly infer that exercise 1879 .
] of the Pregnant Uterus and its Contents in Woman .
497 in general in moderation will expedite the flow of the fluids in the uterine vessels , \amp ; c. , and , also , that a sudden severe action will tend to urge it forward so quickly , before the vessels can convey it onward , that their rupture would result and effusion of blood be a natural consequence:\#151 ; a result which experience shows actually occurs under such circumstances .

