II .
" Preliminary Note on the production of Vibrations and Musical Sounds by Electrolysis .
" By GEORGE GORE , Esq. Communicated by Professor TYNDALL .
Received April 4 , 1861 .
If a large quantity of electricity is made to pass through a suitable good conducting electrolyte into a small surface of pure mercury , * Glaciers of the Alps , p. 289 .
t Travels in the Alps , p. 76 .
and especially if the mercurial surface is in the form of a narrow strip about ?
th of an inch wide , strong vibrations occur ; and symmetrical crispations of singular beauty , accompanied by definite sounds , are produced at the mutual surfaces of the liquid metal and electrolyte .
In my experiments the crispations and sounds were readily produced by taking a circular pool of mercury from l to 3 inches in diameter , surrounded by a ring of mercury about I-th or " I-th of an inch wide , both being contained in a circular vessel of glass or gutta percha , covering the liquid metal to a depth of about ?
an inch with a rather strong aqueous solution of cyanide of potassium , connecting the pool of mercury by a platinum wire with the positive pole of a battery capable of forcing a rather large quantity of electricity through the liquid , and connecting the ring of mercury with the negative platinum wire .
The ring of mercury immediately became covered with crispations or elevated sharp ridges about a-th of an inch asunder , all radiating towards the centre of the vessel , and a definite or musical sound was produced capable of being heard , on some occasions , at a distance of about 40 or 50 feet .
The vibrations and sounds ceased after a short time , but were always reproduced by reversing the direction of the electric current for a short time , and then restoring it to its original direction .
The loudness of the sound depends greatly upon the power of the battery ; if the battery was too strong the sounds did not occur .
The battery I have used consists of 10 pairs of Smee 's elements , each silver plate containing about 90 square inches of immersed or acting surface ; and I have used with equal success six Grove 's batteries , arranged either as 2 or 3 pairs , each platinum plate being 6 inches long and 4 inches wide .
If the cyanide solutionwas too strong , the sounds were altogether prevented .
Being occupied in investigating the conditions and relations of this phenomenon with the intention of submitting a complete account of the results to the notice of the Royal Society , I refrain from stating further particulars on the present occasion .

