XV .
" Notes on British Foraminifera .
" By J. GWYN JErFREYS , Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1855 .
Having , during a great many years , directed my attention to the recent Foraminifera which inhabit our own shores , I venture to offer a few observations on this curious group , as Dr. Carpenter , who has favoured the Society with an interesting and valuable memoir on the subject , seems not to have had many opportunities of studying the animals in the recent state .
Rather more than twenty years ago I communicated to the Linnean Society a paper on the subject , containing a diagnosis and figures of all the species .
This paper was read and ordered to be printed in the Transactions of that Society ; but it was withdrawn by me before publication , in consequence of my being dissatisfied with D'Orbigny 's theory ( which I had erroneously adopted ) , that the animals belonged to the Cephalopoda ; and my subsequent observations were confirmed by the theory of Dujardin .
I have since placed all my drawings and specimens at the disposal of Mr. Williamson of Manchester , who has given such a good earnest of what he can do in elucidating the natural history of this group , by his papers on Lagena and the Foraminiferous mud of the Levant .
The observations which I have made on many hundred recent and living specimens of various species , fully confirm Dr. Carpenter 's view as to the simple and homogeneous nature of the animal .
His idea of their reproduction by gemmation is also probably correct ; although I cannot agree with him in considering the granules which are occasionally found in the cells as ova .
These bodies I have frequently noticed , and especially in the Lagene ; but they appeared to constitute the entire mass , and not merely a part of the animal .
I am inclined to think they are only desiccated portions of the animal , separated from each other in consequence of the absence of any muscular or nervous structure .
It may also be questionable if the term " ova " is rightly applicable to an animal which has no distinct organs of any kind .
Possibly the fry may pass through a metamorphosis , as in the case of the Medusa .
Most of the Foraminifera are free , or only adhere by their pseudopodia to foreign substances .
Such are the Lagena of Walker , Nodo. .
saria , Vorticialis and Textularia , and the Miliola of Lamarck .
The latter has some , although a very limited , power of locomotion ; which is effected by exserting its pseudopodia to their full length , attaching itself by them to a piece of seaweed , and then contracting them like india-rubber , so as to draw the shell along with them .
Some of the acephalous mollusks do the same by means of their byssus .
This mode of progression is , however , exceedingly slow ; and I have never seen , in the course of twenty-four hours , a longer journey than a quarter of an inch accomplished by a Miliola , so that , in comparison with it , a snril travels at a railroad pace .
Some are fixed or sessile , but not cemented at their base like the testaceous annelids .
The only mode of attachment appears to be a thin film of sarcose .
The Lobatula of Fleming , and the Rosalia and Planorbulina of D'Orbigny belong to this division .
Dr. Carpenter considers the Foraminifera to be phytophagous , in consequence of his having detected in some specimens , by the aid of the microscope , fragments of Diatomaceee and other simple forms of vegetable life .
But as I have dredged them alive at a depth of 108 fathoms ( which is far below the Laminarian zone ) , and they are extremely abundant at from 40 to 70 fathoms , ten miles from land and beyond the range of any seaweed , it may be assumed without much difficulty , that many , if not most of them , are zoophagous , and prey on microscopic animals , perhaps even of a simpler form and structure than themselves .
They are in their turn the food of mollusca , and appear to be especially relished by Dentalium Entale .
With respect to Dr. Carpenter 's idea that they are allied to sponges , I may remark that Polystomella crispa ( an elegant and not uncommon species ) has its periphery set round at each segment with siliceous spicula , like the rowels of a spur .
But as there is only one terminal cell , which is connected with all the others in the interior by one or more openings for the pseudopodia , the analogy is not complete , this being a solitary , and the sponge a compound or aggregate animal .
I believe the geographical range or distribution of species in this group to be regulated by the same laws as in the Mollusks and other marine animals .
In the gulf of Genoa I have found ( as might have been expected ) species identical with those of our Hebridean coast , and vice versed .
In common with Dr. Carpenter , I cannot help deploring the excessive multiplication of species in the present day , and I would include in this regret the unnecessary formation of genera .
Another Linnaeus is sadly wanted to correct this pernicious habit , both at home and abroad .
The group now under consideration exhibits a great tendency to variation of form , some of the combinations ( especially in the case of Marginulina ) being as complicated and various as a Chinese puzzle .
It is , I believe , undeniable , that the variability of form is in an inverse ratio to the development of animals in the scale of Nature .
Having examined thousands ( I may say myriads ) of these elegant organisms , I am induced to suggest the following arrangement:1 .
Lagena ( Walker ) and Entosolenia ( Williamson ) .
2 .
Nodosaria and Marginulina ( D'Orb .
) , &amp;c. 3 .
Vorticialis ( D'Orb .
) , Rotalia ( Lam .
) , Lobatula ( Flem .
) , Globigerina ( D'Orb .
) , &amp;c. 4 .
Textularia ( Defrance ) , Uvgerina ( D'Orb .
) , &amp;c. 5 .
Miliola ( Lam .
) , Biloculina ( D'Orb .
) , &amp;c. This division must , however , be modified by a more extended and cosmopolitan view of the subject , as I only profess to treat of the British species .
To illustrate MacLeay 's theory of a quinary and circular arrangement , the case may be put thus , Lagenadw. .
1 The first family is connected by the typical genus Lagena with the second , and by Entosolina with the fifth ; the second is united with the third through Marginulina ; the third with the fourth through Globigerina ; and the fourth with the last through Uvigerina .
Whether these singular and little-known animals are Rhizopodes , or belong to the Amoeba , remains yet to be satisfactorily made out .
London , June 18 , 1855 .

