79 A Preliminary Note on the Extrusion Granules hy Trypanosomes .
By W. B. Fry , Captain B.A.M.C. ( Communicated by H. G. Plimmer , F.R.S. Received May 31 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1911 .
) During some investigations carried out in the Welcome Tropical Research Laboratories at the Gordon College , Khartoum , a phenomenon was noticed to occur which would seem to have some hearing on the life-history of the trypanosomata .
The observations were made whilst employing the dark ground method of illumination , and certain confirmatory evidence was obtained by using a modification of Levaditi 's method of silver staining .
The trypanosome infection of animals referred to in this note was that caused by a strain known in the laboratories as Type I , .
or a strain which our later conclusions lead us almost undoubtedly to regard as a variety of T. brucei .
It was found that at times during the course of an infection , certain of the trypanosomes extrude from their bodies granules which are thrown off apparently with considerable force , and then appear to possess a certain motility of their own in the blood .
The phenomenon has been observed both naturally and after drug treatment ; its occurrence has been studied principally in the Jerboa , an animal in which the disease runs a chronic course , and it is considered that the extrusion of the granules bears some relation to the periodic disappearance of the trypanosomes from the circulating blood .
The granule is irregularly spherical in shape and of an apparently constant size , estimated at about 05 ya. At times a fine corkscrew-shaped filament was observed connected to these granules ; this was seen sometimes immediately after extrusion ; the length of the filament was estimated at four or five times the diameter of the granule .
( See accompanying sketch .
) It is believed that similar granules have been observed in the circulating blood in which trypanosomes were not to be found .
Further , that the same granules have been identified in certain organs , viz. , the lung in dogs , during the course of an infection .
The general appearance and character of the granules were in many ways very similar to those of an extrusion granule , which was subsequently observed by Dr. Andrew Balfour in the same laboratories as occurring in the 80 On the Extrusion of Granules by Trypanosomes .
spirochaetosis of fowls , accounts of which have already been published .
As far as possible the general fallacies due to dark ground illumination were avoided .
Trypanosome and Granule , A , already flagellated , some time after extrusion , to show relative size .
At B two granules are shown in the body of the trypanosome .
Further experiments as to the significance of this observation will be carried out later on in the year , but it is at present regarded as essentially of a vital and not of a degenerative nature .

