408 Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
[ Feb. 3 , obtained from the long-period observation , may in reality be rather low , and the value 0*499 , obtained in the earlier experiments , might be a little high owing to traces of water or organic matter giving some hydrogen along with helium .
Note on Carbon Monosulphide .
By Sir James Dewar , M.A. , LL. D. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor in the University of Cambridge , and Humphrey Owen Jones , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Jacksonian Demonstrator in the University of Cambridge .
( Received January 10 , \#151 ; Read January 27 ; received in revised form February 3 , 1910 .
) No chemical double decomposition is known which results in the direct production of a substance of the composition of carbon monosulphide .
We have discovered such a reaction .
Thiophosgene* reacts rapidly with nickel carbonyl at the ordinary temperature , and less rapidly at \#151 ; 20 ' C. , to produce a brown solid and a large volume of carbon monoxide .
Although the reaction is apparently violent the mixture rather falls in temperature just as the similar mixture of nickel carbonyl and oxalyl chloride does.f The solid was found to consist of nickel chloride , which was readily extracted by water , and a brown solid containing carbon and sulphur .
The reaction takes place readily between the two liquids or their vapours alone , or between the liquids mixed with dry ether , petroleum ether , carbon tetrachloride , or chloroform , and even when the two substances had been carefully dried by contact with pure phosphorus pentoxide .
It seemed possible that the reaction had taken place according to the equation aNi(CO)4+a\#163 ; SCla = a ?
NiCla + 4\#187 ; C0 + ( C1S ) , to produce a solid polymeric form of carbon monosulphide .
Quantitative experiments gave results in agreement with this view , as may be seen from the following examples .
0*860 gramme CSCI2 and 1*5 grammes Ni(CO)4 in dry ether gave 1*21 grammes of solid , of which 0*89 gramme was NiCl2 and 0*40 gramme solid * The thiopliosgene used was obtained from Schucliardt , and when purified by distillation boiled at 72'\#151 ; 73 ' C. under 730 mm. pressure .
+ 4 Chem. Soc. Trans.,5 1909 , vol. 95 , p. 1909 .
1910 .
] Note on Carbon Monosulphide .
insoluble in water and dried at 100 ' C. According to the equation there should have been 1*30 grammes of the mixed solids , of which 0*97 gramme should have been NiCl2 and 0*33 gramme ( CS)X .
4*7 grammes CSC12 and excess Ni(CO)4 , 9 grammes , gave 7 grammes solid , of which 5*1 grammes were NiCl2 and 2 grammes solid insoluble in water and dried at 100 ' C. The equation given above requires 5*3 grammes NiCl2and 1*8 grammes ( CS)X .
As will be seen later , the solid retains water very persistently , so that the weight obtained would probably be in excess of that expected .
The percentages of carbon and sulphur were determined in the mixed solids after washing with ether and drying at 100 ' C. , with the following results:\#151 ; 0*5070 gramme gave 0*1090 gramme C02 and 0*0320 gramme H20 ; hence C = 5*87 per cent. 0*4230 gramme gave 0*4895 gramme BaS04 ; hence S = 15*9 per cent. Atomic ratio\#151 ; C : S = 0*489 : 0*497 .
This rendered it extremely probable that the equation given above represents the course of the reaction .
In attempting to purify the carbon monosulphide some difficulties were encountered .
Unfortunately , no convenient reagent other than water has been found for separating the nickel chloride from the other product , and this admittedly introduces difficulties , since water is retained by the solid , and it has not yet been found possible to obtain the substance quite free from water .
Even after heating to 150 ' C. or 200 ' C. under reduced pressure for over an hour as much as 10 per cent , of water was found on combustion .
Then , in spite of the fact that excess of nickel carbonyl was always used , traces of thiophosgene were found to be retained persistently by the solid .
The following process was adopted for the preparation of specimens for analysis .
Thiophosgene was allowed to react with slightly more than one molecular proportion of nickel carbonyl mixed with about ten times its volume of dry ether , carbon tetrachloride , or chloroform at the ordinary temperature , the usual precautions being taken to exclude moisture .
After standing for some hours the solid product was separated by filtration , washed with the solvent , extracted with the solvent for about half an hour in a Soxhlet apparatus and then heated to 100 ' C. This product was now extracted with water in the same manner until all the nickel chloride had been removed .
It was found that the solid still contained small quantities of nickel in a form insoluble in water ; it was therefore extracted repeatedly with dilute hydrochloric acid until nickel could no longer be detected in the acid solution and it Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
[ Feb. 3 , was then washed with water until free from chloride .
The product was finally dried by heating , first to 100 ' and then to 150 ' C. , and sometimes to 200 ' C. under reduced pressure .
In some cases the odour of thiophosgene could be detected in the vapour given off on heating under reduced pressure ; the difficulty of removing this substance is , of course , much increased owing to the ease with which it polymerises .
In all cases the product was proved to be free from chlorine before being used .
It was found that at the higher temperatures , 200 ' C. or more , sulphuretted hydrogen was produced in small quantity , probably from the interaction of water with the carbon monosulphide .
The carbon in the product was estimated by combustion in a tube containing lead chromate , and the sulphur was estimated by Carnis ' method .
The variable quantity of water found on combustion is assumed to be present in water , either free or possibly combined , and is taken as impurity in calculating the percentages of carbon and sulphur .
The following analyses are selected as typical of those which have been made:\#151 ; { 1 ) Solvent , ether , product dried at 150 ' C. 0*4220 gramme gave 0*3901 gramme C02 and 0*0416 gramme H20 ; hence C = 25*2 per cent. , or , corrected for water present , 27*9 per cent. 0*1588 gramme gave 0*7432 gramme BaS04 ; hence S = 64*3 per cent. , or , corrected for the amount of water present , 71*3 per cent. *(2 ) Solvent , chloroform , substance dried at 150 ' C. 0*2190 gramme gave 0*2010 gramme C02 and 0*0150 gramme H20 ; hence C found = 25*1 per cent. , or , corrected for the amount of vrater present , C = 26*9 per cent. 0*3175 gramme gave 1*5210 grammes BaS04 ; hence S found = 65*8 per cent. , or , corrected for the amount of water present , S = 72*2 per cent. Analyses of the products obtained when no solvent was used , or when .carbon tetrachloride was used , gave similar results .
Also washing with carbon disulphide did not alter the composition of the substance .
The product obtained when petroleum ether was used as solvent usually gave a higher percentage of carbon .
Thus , for example , a specimen dried at 160 ' C. gave the following result:\#151 ; 0*3248 gramme gave 0*3205 gramme C02 and 0*0285 gramme H20 ; hence C found == 26*5 per cent. , or , corrected for the water present , C = 29*6 per cent. This may be due to the production of complicated carbon compounds from 1910 .
] Note on Carbon Monosulphide .
the petroleum ether , and some evidence of their presence was obtained during the process of drying under reduced pressure .
CS requires C 27'3 and S 72*7 per cent. It may therefore be fairly concluded that the reaction between thiophosgene and nickel carbonyl takes place according to the equation given above , and yields a polymeric form of carbon monosulphide .
It is curious that the product should polymerise so readily , seeing that the reaction takes place at the ordinary temperature , and it is well known that polymeric forms of carbon monoxide have not been obtained .
On different occasions Baudrimont , Thomsen and Deninger each believed that he had isolated a gaseous carbon monosulphide .
Modern theory enables us to predict , from a comparison of the critical temperatures of the two oxides of carbon and carbon disulphide , that the boiling point of the hypothetical carbon monosulphide would be about \#151 ; 130 ' C. Those claims were subsequently showTn to have been founded on error .
A polymeric form of carbon monosulphide appears to have been obtained by Sidot , * who stated that pure carbon disulphide decomposed , on exposure to sunlight for some months , into sulphur and a substance stated to be carbon monosulphide , which is described as a maroon red powder , odourless , tasteless , only slightly soluble in hot carbon disulphide and ether , insoluble in other solvents , and having a specific gravity of 1*66 .
The substance is dissolved by hot concentrated nitric acid to a red solution , is ignited by the monohydrate of nitric acid , but is not attacked by hydrochloric or sulphuric acids .
It is dissolved by concentrated caustic potash to a deep brown solution , from which acids precipitate the substance unchanged .
At 200 ' C. this carbon monosulphide is stated to decompose into carbon and sulphur , but if heated with sulphur , carbon disulphide and a white crystalline solid are produced .
The only quantitative datum which is referred to is a determination of the proportion of sulphur to the solid , and no analyses are given .
The properties of carbon monosulphide as prepared by us agree in some respects with Sidot 's description , but there are also important differences in other respects .
Carbon monosulphide is a brown powder , which in some cases closely resembles some forms of carbon in appearance .
Determinations of the specific gravity of the finely divided powder gave a mean value of about 1*6 ; after compression into a solid block it gave the value 1*83 .
In this condition the substance is a non-conductor of electricity .
* 'Comptes Rendus , ' 1872 , vol. 74 , p. 179 ; 1875 , vol. 81 , p. 32 .
VOL. LXXXIII.\#151 ; A. 412 Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
[ Feb. 3r The molecular volume is therefore 24 , which is about 10 per cent , greater than the sum of the atomic volumes of its constituents .
A general comparison of the molecular volumes of the oxides and sulphides , as far as we know them , can now be made and is interesting:\#151 ; The molecular volume of solid carbon monoxide is 28 .
The molecular volume of solid carbon dioxide is 28*7 , at \#151 ; 78 ' C. , or 27 at \#151 ; 185 ' C. The molecular volume of solid carbon disulphide is 52*4 , at \#151 ; 188 ' C. Thus it appears that the volumes of carbon monoxide and dioxide are the same , whereas carbon monosulphide has a volume which is approximately only half as great as that of carbon disulphide , and it is therefore clear that the carbon monosulphide described is formed from carbon disulphide with considerable contraction , and this is confirmatory that it is a condensed molecule .
Carbon monosulphide is practically insoluble in alcohol , ether , benzene , and petroleum ether ; it is slightly soluble in carbon disulphide , ethylene dibromide , nitrobenzene , naphthalene , and phenol to give deeply coloured , reddish brown , solutions .
Unfortunately , the solubility is too small to allow of determinations of the molecular weight of the compound .
The behaviour of carbon monosulphide with sulphuric acid is characteristic and interesting .
It is not affected by the dilute acid : but with the concentrated acid in the cold or at higher temperatures it forms a brownish purple solution , the colour of which is only slowly destroyed at the boiling point of the acid , when carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide are evolved .
On pouring the solution in concentrated sulphuric acid into water a flocculent precipitate separates , which after washing and drying was found , on analysis , to be unchanged carbon monosulphide .
The compound is dissolved by concentrated nitric acid at the ordinary temperature to a reddish solution , the colour of which is only destroyed on long heating ; for this reason , although some sulphuric acid seems to be produced at once , the whole of the sulphur is not converted into sulphuric acid until the solution has been heated for a long time , and low percentages of sulphur were obtained by Carius5 method , unless the heating had been continued at about 150 ' C. for some hours .
On one occasion only did the compound ignite on coming into contact with nitric acid .
Carbon monosulphide dissolves in an aqueous or alcoholic solution of ammonia , ammonium sulphide , caustic potash , potassium sulphide , or potassium hydrosulphide to give a deep brown solution , from which acids precipitate the carbon monosulphide apparently unchanged .
1910 .
] Note on Carbon Monosulpliide .
On heating the solid in a high vacuum no change took place below 360 ' C. , except the evolution of a small quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen , and when mercury was present no mercury sulphide was formed .
At a low red heat a liquid was given off which was found to be carbon disulphide .
Even after heating the compound to a red heat in a quartz tube , in which a high vacuum was maintained by means of charcoal cooled in liquid air , for an hour and a half , the residue still contained some sulphur , though it was chiefly carbon .
Some quantitative experiments were made , of which the following is typical:\#151 ; 0*380 gramme , after heating to a red heat for an hour and a half , left 0*1075 gramme residue which contained 15 per cent , of sulphur .
It is therefore probable that , on heating , the carbon monosulphide is decomposed according to the following equation :\#151 ; 2(CS)* = xC + xCS2 , but that the change is very slow .
On heating carbon monosulphide in a current of dry hydrogen , sulphuretted hydrogen was produced , and the residue which was left was almost free from sulphur .
On heating in a current of dry chlorine the substance melted and evolved sulphur chloride , together with a little thiophosgene , and a residue of carbon was left .
The most important differences between carbon monosulphide as prepared by us and the substance described by Sidot , as resulting from the long action of light , are the colour , the action of sulphuric acid , and the decomposition by heat .
Also , we were not able to get carbon disulphide by heating the compound with sulphur to the boiling point of sulphur .
The examination of the properties of carbon monosulphide is being continued .

