1874 .
] On the Brain and Skull of Amphioxus lanceolatus .
127 In the discussion of oceanic phenomena too much attention is usually paid to the great currents .
When it is wished to study the phenomena due to temperature , or to any single cause , the effect of the winds , which is seen in its most intense form in the ocean-currents , should be eliminated as far as possible ; which in this case can only be done by selecting comparatively motionless seas , like the one which I have mentioned in the North Atlantic* .
When the effect of atmospheric climate has been studied on the ocean at large , it would then be proper to apply the experience gained to the consideration of the more complicated phenomena of the currents .
I am at present engaged in a detailed consideration of the temperature and specific gravity results , principally in the direction above indicated , and hope shortly to be able to send it home for publication .
III .
" Preliminary Note upon the Brain and Skull of Amphioxus lanceolatus."By T. H. Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received December 173 1874 .
The singular little fish Amphioxus lanceolatus has been universally regarded as an extremely anomalous member of the Vertebrate series , by reason of the supposed absence of renal organs and of any proper skull and brain .
On these grounds , chiefly , Agassiz proposed to separate it from all other fishes , and Haeckel , going further , made a distinct division of the Vertebrata ( Acrara'a ) for its reception ; while Semper+ , in a lately published paper , separates it from the Vertebrata altogether .
In a recent communication to the Linnean Society , I have described what I believe to be the representative of the ducts of the Wolffian bodies , or " primordial kidneys " of the higher Vertebrata , in Amphioxus ; and I propose , in this preliminary notice , to point out that although Amphioxus has no completely differentiated brain or skull , yet it possesses very well-marked and relatively large divisions of the cerebro-spinal nervous axis and of the spinal column , which answer to the encephalon and the cranium of the higher Vertebrata .
* The oral aperture of Amphioxus is large , of a long oval shape , and # It will be seen that the principle that the depth to which the effect of the sun 's rays penetrates depends on the yearly range of temperature of the water at the surface , explains the presence of the large body of comparatively warm water in the North Atlantic , the existence of which has been usually ascribed to an assumed reflux or back water of the Gulf-stream .
The warm water is due to no extraneous cause , but is the natural effect of the conditions of climate at the surface ; and the effect of these conditions of climate are so apparent in the temperature of the water , just because it is free from the influence of oceanic currents and exposed to the effects of climate alone .
+ " Die Stammverwandtschaft der Wirbelthiere und Wirbellosen , " Arbeiten aus dem zool.-zootom .
Institut in Wurzburg , Bd .
ii .
1874 , p. 42 .
L 2 Prof. T. H. Huxley on the Brain [ De ; c. 17 , JSTci .
OJb .
1874 .
] and Skull of Amphioxus lanceolatus .
fringed by tentacles , external to which lies a lip , which is continuous behind with the ventro-lateral ridge of the body .
The oral chamber is spacious , and extends back to the level of the junction between the sixth and seventh myotom.es ( fig. A ) .
Here it is divided from the branchial cavity by a peculiarly constructed , muscular velum the upper attachment of which to the ventral aspect of the sheath of the notochord lies vertically below the anterior angle of the seventh myotome .
Eight pairs of nerves are given off from the cerebro-spinal axis as far as this point .
The eighth , or most posterior , of these , which , for convenience , may be called h , passes out between the sixth and seventh myotomes , and runs down parallel with the lateral attachment of the velum .
The next five ( g , f , e , d , c ) pass out between the first six myotomes , and are distributed by their dorsal and ventral branches to those myotomes , to the integument , and to the walls of the buccal cavity .
The foremost two nerves ( band a ) pass in front of the first myotome , and the nerve a runs parallel with the upperside of the notochord to the end of the snout , giving off branches to that region of the body which lies in front of the mouth .
This nerve lies above the eye-spot .
In the Marsipobranch fishes Myxine and ( now known to be a young condition of Petromyzon ) a velum also separates the buccal from the branchial cavity ( figs. B , C , D ) .
But this velum is in connexion with the hyoidean arch .
The resemblance of the buccal cavity , with its tentacles , in Ammoceetes to the corresponding cavity in Amphioxus is so close , that there can be no doubt that the two are homologous .
In the Ammoccetes there is a hyoidean cleft which has hitherto been overlooked .
The auditory sac lies at the dorsal end of the arch and above the dorsal attachment of the velum .
The latter , therefore , corresponds with the auditory region of the skull , and the nerve Ji should answer to the last of the prseauditory cranial nerves , which is the portio .
Assuming this to be the case , though the detailed homologies of the cranial nerves of the higher Vertebrata are yet to be worked out , it follows that the segment of the cerebro-spinal axis which in Amphioxus lies between the origin of the nerve h and the eye , answers to all that part of the brain which lies between the origin of the seventh nerve of Petromyzon and the optic nerve .
Consequently , the lateral walls of the neural canal in the samei region answer to that region of the skull in Petromyzon which lies between the origin of the seventh and the origin of the optic nerve .
Hence , as each myotome of Amphioxus represents the corresponding portion of a protovertebra , it follows that the same region of the skull in the Eamprey and other Vertebrata represents , at fewest , six protover-tebrse , almost all traces of which are lost , even in the embryo condition of the higher Vertebrata .
It may further be concluded that the several pairs of nerves which leave the cerebro-spinal axis , between those which answer to the portio 130 Prof. T. H. Huxley on the Brain [ Dee .
17 , dura and the optic nerve , in Amphioxu , are represented by the third , fourth , fifth , and sixth pairs of cranial nerves of the higher Vertebrata .
The nerve a , in fact , has the characteristic course and distribution ol the orbito-nasal division of the trigeminal ; while , without at present drawing a closer parallel , it is easy to see that the nerves 6 , c , df and g , with their respective myotomes , supply the requisite materials for metamorphosis into the oculomotor , pathetic , trigeminal , and abducens nerves , with the muscles of the eye and of the jaws , in the more differentiated vertebrate types .
Thus , that part of the cerebro-spinal axis of Amphioxus which lies in front of the seventh myotome answers to the prseauditory part of the brain in the higher Vertebrata , and the corresponding part of the head to the trabecular region of the skull in them .
On the other hand , from the seventh myotome backwards , a certain number of segments answer to the postauditory , or parachordal , region of the skull of the higher Vertebrata .
The answer to the question , how many ?
involves sundry considerations .
It must be recollected that though the branchial chamber of Amphioxus is the homologue of the branchial chamber of other Vertebrata , it does not necessarily follow that the imperfect branchial skeleton of Amphioxus corresponds with their branchial skeleton .
The branchial skeleton of the higher Vertebrata consists of cartilaginous rods , which seem to be developed in the somatopleure , and to be homologous with the ribs , while the branchial skeleton of Amphioacus consists of fibrous bands apparently developed in the splanchnopleure .
The branchial arches of the higher Vertebrata , in accordance with their essentially costal nature , receive their innervation from the glossopharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves , which are homologues of spinal nerves ; and , in seeking for the posterior limits of that region in which corresponds with the skull and brain in other Vertebrates , we must only take into account as many pairs of those nerves which arise from the cerebro-spinal axis as we know are , in the Vertebrata next above Amphioxus , devoted to the branchial arches .
In none of these are there more than seven pairs of branchial arches ; so that not more than eight myotomes ( and .consequently protovertebrae ) of Amphioxus , in addition to those already mentioned , can be reckoned as the equivalents of the parachordal region of the skull in the higher Vertebrates .
Thus it would appear that the cranium of the latter is represented by those segments of the body of Amphioxus which lie in front of the fifteenth , counting from before backwards , and that their cranial nerves are represented by the corresponding anterior pairs of nerves in Amphioxus .
In all Vertebrata above Amphioxus the nerves which answer to the seven posterior pairs in Amphioxus unite into one or two trunks on each side , and give rise to the nerves called pneumogastric and glossopharyngeal j and , as these pass out of the skull in front of the occipit^ 874 .
] and Skull of Amphioxus lanceolatus .
egment , it would appear that this segment is , in the main , the result f the chondrification , with or without subsequent ossification , of the fourteenth proto vertebra .
There is no evidence , at present , that the ear-capsule represents a nodification of any part of the vertebral skeleton , nor that the trabeculae ire any thing but an anterior pair of visceral arches .
And if these parts lave nothing to do with centra , or arches , of vertebrae , it follows that he numerous protovertebrae , which lie in front of the fourteenth in imphioxus , are represented only by muscles and nerves in the higher Tertebrata .
The anterior end of the eerebro-spinal axis of Amphioxus answers o the lamina terminalis of the thalamencephalon of the higher Verte-rata , the cerebral hemispheres and olfactory lobes remaining unde-eloped .
If the auditory nerve is , as Gregenbaur has suggested , the dorsal branch tf a single nerve which represents both the portio dura and the portio tollis , the auditory organ of Amphioxus is to be sought in connexion with he dorsal branch of its eighth nerve .
I have found nothing representing in auditory organ in this position ; and I can only conclude that Amphioxus .eally has no auditory apparatus .
In all other respects , however , it conforms to the Vertebrate type ; and , considering its resemblance to the early stages of Petromyzon described by Schulze , I can see no reason for removing it from the class Pisces .
But its permanently segmented skull and its many other peculiarities suggest that it should be regarded is the type of a primary division or subclass of the class Pisces , to which the name of Entomocrania may be applied , in contrast to the rest , in which the primary segmentation of the skull is lost , and which may be termed Holocrania .
On a future occasion I propose to show in what manner the skull of the Marsipobranch is related to that of the higher Vertebrata , and more especially to the skull of the Prog in its young adpole state .
EXPLANATION OP THE PIGUKES .
A , C , D are diagrammatic , but accurate , representations of the anterior part of the body in Amphioxus ( A ) , in an Ammocceie 1'6 inch long ( C ) , and in a fully grown Ammococte 5*7 inches long ( D ) .
B is a copy of the furthest advanced stage of the young T'ctrcmyzon planeri six weeks after hatching , as figured by Schultze in his memoir on the development of that fish .
The figures are magnified to the same vertical dimension , so as to afford a means of estimating , roughly , the changes in the proportional growth of the various parts of the head of the Lamprey in its progress from the embryonic towards the adult condition .
In C , the brain is already differentiated into the three primary vesicles and the vesicles of the cerebral hemispheres , though they are not shown , the whole brain being merely indicated by the dark shading .
The trabeculae ( 2V ) , which have already united in front , are indicated , but not the semilunar ethmoidal cartilage , which lies above and behind the 13 % Letters from the Naturalists attached to [ D ee .
17 nasal sac .
In Df neither the ethmoidal nor the trabecular cartilages are shown , but the contour of the brain is indicated ; and the manner in which the longitudinal muscles , which represent the anterior myotomes of Amphioxus , are arranged is shown .
The tentacles of Amphioxus are represented by the tentacles of the Ammocwte , the hood-like " upper lip " of the latter obviously answering to the median prolongation of the head of Amphioxus with the two lateral folds of integument which lie outside the bases of the tentacles and are continued back into the ventro-lateral ridges .
The relative shortening of the notochord , and lengthen^ ing of that region of the brain which lies in front of the origins of the optic nerves , in C , as compared with B , is remarkable .
A line is drawn in all the figures through the anterior margin of the nasal sacs ( No-No ) ; another has the same relation to the eyes ( Op-Op ) ; and a third ( Hy-Hy ) passes through the region of the auditory sac and hyoidean arch .
1 , 2 , 3 , hyoidean and first and second branchial clefts of Ammoccetes ; i. , ii .
, in .
, iv .
, \amp ; c. , myotomes of Amphioxus ; My , myelon or spinal cord ; Ch , notochord .
IV .
Letters received from the Naturalists attached to the Transit-of-Venus Expedition at Rodriguez .
Government House , Port Mathurin , Rodriguez , Nov. 2 , 1874 .
Deab Sib , \#151 ; I write to give you a short account of my proceedings and success here so far , in my explorations of the Eodriguez bone-caverns .
I must confess to a more or less degree of disappointment on my first inspection of the caverns ; and you will understand the cause , I think , when I inform you that out of thirteen caves which I found on my arrival , and which I believed till lately to be the only ones , twelve bore evident , and some recent , signs of previous digging .
However , I set to work at once , and , with much diligent search , had found five new caves by the time that we had finished the first thirteen .
Out of these I have reason to believe that , in three of them , no mortal foot has ever been previous to mine ; for the mouths of all were closed up by a falling-in of the rock , and it was by this sign that I guessed at their existence .
We had to work some time at all of them with a big iron mallet before entrance could bo effected .
In one of these caves I believe I found the bones of two Solitaires , without admixture of those of any other individuals .
Of the truth of this I am pretty certain ; for they were clearly the bones of a male and female which had fallen down into a cleft , from which egress to so unwieldy a bird was impossible .
Some of the bones had fallen into dust from exposure to the air , being only partially covered with sand , whilst others had been altogether removed , whether by water or not I could not say , for I found no trace of its action there .
The same cause , decay , which had nearly annihilated

