1871 .
] On a Constant Form of DanielVs .
IV .
" Modification of Wheatstone 's Bridge to find the Resistance of a Galvanometer-Coil from a single deflection of its own needle .
" By Prof. Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received January 19 , 1871 .
In any useful arrangement in which a galvanometer or electrometer and a galvanic element or battery are connected , through whatever trains or network of conductors , let the galvanometer and battery be interchanged .
Another arrangement is obtained which will probably be useful for a very different , although reciprocally related object .
Hence , as soon as I learned from Mr. Mance his admirable method of measuring the internal resistance of a galvanic element ( that described in the first of his two preceding papers ) , it occurred to me that the reciprocal arrangement would afford a means of finding the resistance of a galvanometer-coil , from a single deflection of its own needle , by a galvanic element of unknown resistance .
The resulting method proves to be of such extreme simplicity that it would be incredible that it had not occurred to any one before , were it not that I fail to find any trace of it published in books or papers ; and that personal inquiries of the best informed electricians of this country have shown that , in this country at least , it is a novelty .
It consists simply in making the galvanometer-coil one of the four conductors of a Wheatstone 's bridge , and adjusting , as usual , to get the zero of current when the bridge contact is made , with only this difference , that the test of the zero is not by a galvanometer in the bridge showing no deflection , but by the galvanometer itself , the resistance of whose coil is to be measured , showing an unchanged deflection .
Neither diagram nor further explanation is necessary to make this understood to any one who knows Wheatstone 's bridge .
V. " On a Constant Form of Darnell 's Battery .
" By Prof. Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received January 19 , 1871 .
Graham 's discovery of the extreme slowness with which one liquid diffuses into another , and Fick 's mathematical theory of diffusion , cannot fail to suggest that diffusion alone , without intervention of a porous cell or membrane , might be advantageously used for keeping the two liquids of a Daniell 's battery separate .
Hitherto , however , no galvanic element without some form of porous cell , membrane , or other porous solid for separator , has been found satisfactory in practice .
The first idea of dispensing with a porous cell , and keeping the two liquids separate by gravity , is due to Mr. C. F. Varley , who proposed to put the copper-plate in the bottom of a jar , resting on it a saturated solution of sulphate of copper , resting on this a less dense solution of sulphate of zinc , and immersed in the sulphate of zinc the metal zinc-plate fixed

