May 6 , 1852 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
In compliance with the Statutes , it was announced from the Chair that the following Candidates are recommended by the Council for election into the Society : Arthur Kett Barclay , Esq. Hugh Lee Pattinson , Esq. Rev. Jonathan Cape .
Rev. B. Price .
Arthur Cayley , Esq. William Simms , Esq. Henry Gray , Esq. Hugh E. Strickland , Esq. Wyndham Harding , Esq. John Tyndall , Esq. Arthur Henfrey , Esq. Nathaniel Bagshaw Ward , Esq. John Higginbottom , Esq. Captain C. Younghusband , R.A. John Mercer , Esq. A paper was read , entitled , " On Periodical Laws discoverable in the mean effects of the larger Magnetic Disturbances."-No .
II .
By Colonel Edward Sabine , R.A. , Treas .
and V.P.R.S. &amp;c. Received March 18 , 1852 .
From the discussion of the magnetic observations made at Toronto and Hobarton in the years 1843 , 44 , 45 , the author in a former paper adduced evidence of the existence of periodical laws by which the principal disturbances of the magnetic declination appeared to be regulated .
Having since had occasion to examine the disturbances of the Declination at the same two stations in the three succeeding years 1846 , 47 , 48 , he states that he had the satisfaction of finding that the observations of these years confirm every deduction Which he had ventured to make from the analysis of the disturbances of the former period ; whilst new and important features have presented themselves in the comparison of the frequency and amount of the disturbances in different years , apparently indicating the existence of a periodical variation , which , either from a real or causal connection , or by a singular coincidence , corresponds precisely , both in period and epoch , with the variation in the frequency and magnitude of the solar spots , recently announced by M. Schwabe as the result of his systematic and long-continued observations .
The method pursued in examining the laws of the Declinationdisturbances in 1846 , 47 , 48 , is the same as that adopted in the three preceding years .
Every hourly observation which was found to differ a certain amount from the mean value of the Declination in the same month and at the same hour was , as before , separated from the rest .
The number of observations thus separated in the period commencing July 1 , 1843 , and ending July 1 , 1848 , was at Toronto 3940 , and at Hobarton 3469 , being respectively 1 in 9-43 at Toronto , and 1 in 10'55 at Hobarton , of the whole number of hourly observations .
The disturbed observations being distributed into the several hours , months , and years in which they had occurred , their numbers and aggregate values in each particular hour , month , and year , were ascertained .
They were then divided into easterly and westerly deflections , and the same process of distributionwas gone through with each of the divisions .
The mean hourly , monthly and yearly number and aggregate values in the whole period were then taken as the respective units , and the ratios to these units computed for each of the hours , months and years ; whereby the relations , whether of numbers or of aggregate values in different hours , different months , and different years , were shown .
The results thus obtained are discussed separately in the following order : I. Inequality or variation in the number and aggregate values of the disturbed observations in different hours .
This examination is made by classing together-lst , easterly disturbances at Toronto and westerly at Hobarton ; and 2nd , westerly at Toronto and easterly at Hobarton .
From the first classification , it appears that at both stations there are fewer disturbances , and their aggregate values are less in the hours of the day than in those of the night ; that 9 P.M. is the hour of the maximum of frequency and also of value at Toronto , and 11 P.M. at Hobarton ; and that the periods of minima are between 2 and 3 P.M. at Toronto , and between 5 and 6 A.M. at Hobarton .
It appears further that the average value has a similar law of variation to that of the number and aggregate value .
The second classification shows that at Hobarton the contrast both in frequency and aggregate value is still between the hours of the day and those of the night , the ratios being , however , in this case greater than unity during the former hours , and less than unity during the latter , contrary to what takes with the easterly disturbances : at Toronto the contrast is between the hours from noon to midnight , and those from midnight to noon , the ratios being greater than unity during the latter hours , and less than unity during the former .
In both cases the variation in the ratios appears to be dependent on the hours of local , not on those of absolute time .
From a table showing the ratios of easterly aggregate values to westerly at Toronto , and of westerly to easterly at Hobarton , it appears that , at both stations , the deflection ( due to disturbance ) of the end of the magnet of the same name as the magnetic latitude is to the west during the hours of the day or from 5 A.M. to 5 P.M. : at a little before 6 P.M. at Toronto , and a little after 6 at Hobarton , the deflections pass through zero ( or the undisturbed position of the magnet ) into easterly deflections of that end .
The magnitude of those deflections rapidly augments to a maximum at 9 P.M. at Toronto , and at 10 P.M. at I-Jobarton ; they again pass through zero between 4 and 5 A.M. ; and attain the westerly maximum at 7 A.M. , the variation in the magnetic direction due to the disturbances depending , like those of number and value , on the hour of local time .
II .
Inequality or variation in the number and aggregate values of the disturbed observations in different months .
From the tables which are given , it is obvious that there is a systematic variation in the numbers and aggregate values of the disturbances in the different months ; and at both stations the easterly and westerly ratios , separately considered , differ little in the characters which they assign to the variation , from the ratios of the two combined .
The most distinctly marked feature is that the disturbances are less frequent and have a less aggregate value in November to February at Toronto , and in May to August at Hobarton , than in the other months respectively : so that the disturbances are governed by a law depending either on the period of the year , or on local season , not on absolute time .
III .
Variation in the number and aggregate values of the disturbed observations in different years .
Taking the ratios of the numbers and aggregate values of the disturbed observations at Toronto and Hobarton in the different years ( from 1843 to 1848 ) , to the average annual number and aggregate value respectively , it appears that there is a remarkable correspondence in the variation of these ratios in different years at the two stations ; and that at each , both ratios increase progressively from 1843 to 1848 , with the single exception of 1845 , in which there is a small diminution in that of the number and also that of the value .
Taking the mean of the ratios at Toronto and Hobarton , the ratio of the number increases from 0-60 in 1843 to 1'43 in 1848 , and the ratio of the value from 0'52 in 1843 to 1'51 in 1848 , the variation in each having much more the aspect of a periodical inequality than of an accidental variation .
Looking to the theoretical importance of the existence of a periodical inequality of this nature , affecting at the same time , and in the same manner , parts of the globe most remote from each other , the author refers to the confirmation it may obtain from contemporaneous observations at other stations .
Pending such confirmations he remarks that this progressive increase in the amount of disturbance at Toronto and Hobarton , between the years 1843 and 1848 , derives great additional interest and importance from its apparent connection with an equally remarkable progressive increase which took place at the same two stations , in the magnitude of the diurnal range of the Declination in the same years .
From the mean magnitude of the diurnal variation of the Declination in each month , tables are deduced showing the mean magnitude or ranges in the four months constituting the respective seasons , and in the twelve months constituting the year , in each year from 1843 to 1848 , both at Toronto and at Hobarton .
From these tables it appears that at each station , for each of the seasons and for the whole year , the diurnal range of the Declination had a progressive increase during that period ; the increase for the whole year being from 8'90 in 1843 to 12~'04 in 1848 at Toronto , and from 7t'66 to 11t'43 at Hobarton .
In support of the opinion that these progressive increases in the range of the diurnal variation at two stations separated from each other by nearly half the surface of the globe are independent and corresponding measures of a general phenomenon , the author adduces the results obtained by Dr. Lamont from the observations at Munich .
From these it appears that the mean range of the diurnal variation in monthly periods at Munich increased progressively from 7-82 in 1843 to 11-15 in 1848 .
The author remarks that the increase so distinctly marked in the two classes of phenomena between the years 1843 and 1848 tends to indicate a causal connection subsisting between the disturbances and the regular diurnal variation .
If we suppose the diurnal variation to be divided into two portions , one of which is nearly uniform in amount throughout the year ( at the same station ) , whilst the other has a hemispherical phase , developed in either hemisphere according as the sun is in the northern or the southern signs , -it is the former of these two portions which sustains the variation consistent with and apparently related to the variation in the number and values of the disturbances .
''hat the progressive increase in the mean monthly diurnal range , from 1843 to 1848 , was not confined at Toronto and Hobarton to the Declination only , but took place likewise in the diurnal variations of the Inclination and Total Force , is shown by the tables which are given .
In conclusion the author observes , that " in our present ignorance of the physical agency by which the periodical magnetic variations are produced , the possibility of the discovery of some cosmical connection which may throw light on a subject as yet so obscure should not be altogether overlooked .
As the sun must be recognised as at least the primary source of all magnetic variations which conform to a law of local hours , it seems not unreasonable that in the case of other variations also , whether of irregular occurrence or of longer period , we should also look in the first instance to any periodical variation by which we may learn that the sun is affected , to see whether any coincidence of period or epoch is traceable .
Now the facts of the solar spots , as they have been recently made known to us by the assiduous and systematic labours of Schwabe , present us with phenomena which appear to indicate the existence of some periodical affection of an outer envelope , or photosphere , of the sun ; and it is certainly a most striking coincidence that the period , and the epochs of maxima and minima , which M. Schwabe has assigned to the variation of the solar spots , are absolutely identical with those which have been here assigned to the magnetic variations .
" From the results of his observations of the solar spots from the years 1826 to 1850 , M. Schwabe has derived the conclusion that " the numbers in the table leave no room to doubt that , at least from the years 1826 to 1850 , the solar spots have shown a period of about ten years , with maxima in 1828 , 1837 , and 1848 , and minima in 1833 and 1843 .
" M , Schwabe has not been able to derive from the indications of the thermometer or barometer any sensible connection between climatic conditions and the number of spots .
The same remark would of course hold good in respect to the connection of climatic conditions with the magnetic inequalities , as their periodical variation corresponds with that of the solar spots .
But it is quite conceivable that affections of the gaseous envelope of the sun , or the causes occasioning those affections , may give rise to sensible magnetical effects at the surface of our planet , without producing sensible thermic effects .

