1882 .
] Photographing the Solar Corona without an Eclipse .
409 series it is 302'5 .
Again , the mean sun-spot value for the first series is 328 , while for the second series it is 277 .
A difference in mean spotted area of 51 millionths of the visible disk would therefore appear to correspond to a difference in terrestrial magnetic intensity-equal to 15*9 hundred thousandths of the whole .
The results of Tables I and II are exhibited graphically in the diagram .
8 .
If we refer to this diagram we shall see that the appearance of the curves representing magnetic change is very similar to that of the curves representing solar change , but that the epoch of maximum or minimum for the latter slightly precedes the corresponding epoch for the former .
The magnetic means recorded by Broun , from which these results have been derived , are for the Gottingen astronomical day ( Oh .
to 23 h. ) , while the sun-spot observations were made by Schwabe and Dessau , at times not far distant from noon ( 0 h. ) .
Had the two sets of curves , terrestrial and solar , marched exactly together , we might thus have inferred that in reality the terrestrial ( corresponding to 12 hours ) , was behind the solar ( corresponding to times not far distant from Oh .
) .
But in addition to this , the curves denote a decided precedence of the solar over the terrestrial .
There is thus considerable evidence in favour of a lagging behind on the part of the terrestrial results , and hence in this respect these magnetic phenomena of very short period form no exception to other magnetic phenomena , such as those connected with daily range , which exhibit a lagging behind the corresponding solar changes in a very unmistakable manner .
III .
" On a Method of Photographing the Solar Corona without an Eclipse .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 13 , 1882 .
Problems of the highest interest in the physics of our sun are connected , doubtless , with the varying forms which the coronal light is known to assume , but these would seem to admit of solution only on the condition of its being possible to study the corona continuously , and so to be able to confront its changes with the other variable phenomena which the sun presents .
" Unless some means be found , " says Professor 0 .
A. Young , " for bringing out the structures round the sun which are hidden by the glare of our atmosphere , the progress of our knowledge must be very slow , for the corona is visible only about eight days in a century , in the aggregate , and then only over narrow stripes on the earth 's surface , and but from one to five minutes at a time by any one observer."* * " The Sun , " p. 239 .
Dr. W. Huggins .
On a Method of [ Dec. 21 The spectroscopic method of viewing the solar prominences fails because a large part of the coronal light gives a continuous spectrum ' .
The successful photograph of the spectrum of the corona taken in Egypt , with an instrument provided with a slit , under the superintendence of Professor Schuster during the solar eclipse of May 17 1882 , shows that the coronal light as a whole , that is the part which gives a continuous spectrum , as well as the other part of the light which may be resolved into bright lines , is very strong in the region of the spectrum extending from about Gr to H. It appeared to me , therefore , very probable that by making exclusive use of this portion of the spectrum it might be possible under certain conditions , about to be described , to photograph the corona without an eclipse .
in the years 1866-68 I tried screens of coloured glasses and other absorptive media , by which I was able to isolate certain portions of the spectrum , with the hope of seeing directly , without the use of the prism , the solar prominences.* I was unsuccessful , for the reason that I was not able by any glasses or other media to isolate so very restricted a portion of the spectrum as is represented by a bright line .
This cause of unsuitableness of this method for the prominences , which give bright lines only , recommends it as very promising for the corona .
If by screens of coloured glass or other absorptive media the region of the spectrum between Gr and H could be isolated , then the coronal light which is here very strong would have to contend only with a similar range of refrangibility of the light scattered from the terrestrial atmosphere .
It* appeared to me by no means improbable that under these conditions the corona would be able so far to hold its own against the atmospheric glare , that the parts of the sky immediately about the sun where the corona was present would be in a sensible degree brighter than the adjoining parts where the atmospheric light alone was present .
It was obvious , however , that in our climate and low down on the earth 's surface , even with the aid of suitable screens , the addition of the coronal light behind would be able to increase but in a very small degree the .
illumination of the sky at those places where it was present .
There was dlso a serious drawback from the circumstance that although this region of the spectrum falls just within the range of vision , the sensitiveness of the eye for very small differences of illumination in this region near its limit of power is much less than in more favourable parts of the spectrum ; at least such is the case with my own eyes .
There was also another consideration of importance ; the corona is an object of very complex form , and full of details depending on small differences of illumination , so that even if it could be glimpsed by the eye , it could scarcely be expected that observations of a sufficiently precise character could * " Monthly Notices , " vol. xxviii , p. 88 , and vol. xxix , p. 4 .
1882 .
] Photographing the Solar Corona without an Eclipse .
411 be made to permit of the detection , of the more ordinary changes which are doubtlessly taking place in it .
These considerations induced me not to attempt eye-observations , but from the first to use photography , which possesses extreme sensitiveness in the discrimination of minute differences of illumination , and also the enormous advantage of furnishing a permanent record from an instantaneous exposure of the most complex forms .
I have ; satisfied myself by some laboratory experiments that under suitable conditions of exposure and development a photographic plate can be made to record minute differences of illumination existing in different parts of a bright object , such as a sheet of drawing paper , which are so subtle as to be at the very limit of the power of recognition of a trained eye , and even , as it appeared to me , those which surpass that limit .
My first attempts at photographing the corona were made with photographic lenses , but uncertainty as to the state of correction of their chromatic aberration for this part of the spectrum , as well as H3ome other probable sources of error which I wished to avoid , led me to make use of a reflecting telescope of the Newtonian form .
The telescope is by Short , with speculum of 6 inches diameter , and about 3| feet focal length .
A small photographic camera was fastened on the side of the telescope tube , and the image of the sun after reflection by the small plane speculum was brought to focus on the ground glass .
The absorptive media were placed immediately in front of the sensitive film , as in that position they would produce the least optical disturbance .
Before the end of the telescope was fixed a shutter of adjustable rapidity which reduced the aperture to 3 inches .
This was connected with the telescope tube by a short tube of black velvet for the purpose of preventing vibrations from the moving shutter reaching the telescope .
On account of the shortness of the exposures it was not necessary to give motion to the telescope .
It was now necessary to find an absorptive medium which would limit the light received by the plate to the portion of the spectrum from about G to H. There is a violet ( pot ) glass made , which practically does this .
I had a number of pieces of this glass ground and polished on the surfaces .
Three or four of these could be used together , castor-oil being placed between the pieces to diminish the reflection of light at their surfaces .
Some inconvenience was found from small imperfections within the glass , and it would be desirable in any future experiments to have a larger supply of this glass , from which more perfect pieces might be selected .
In my later experiments I used a strong and newly made solution .of potassic permanganate , in a glass cell with carefully polished sides .
This may be considered as restricting the light to the desired range of wave-length , since light- transmitted by this substance in the less Dr. W. Huggins .
On a Method of [ Dec. 21 refrangible parts of the spectrum does not affect the photographic plates .
Different times of exposure were given , from so short an exposure that the sun itself was rightly exposed , to much more prolonged exposures , in which not only the sun itself was photographically reversed , but also the part of the plates extending for a little distant from the sun 's limb .
Gelatine plates were used , which were backed with a solution of asphaltum in benzole .
After some trials I satisfied myself that an appearance peculiarly coronal in its outline and character was to be seen in all the plates .
I was , however , very desirous of trying some modifications of the method described with the hope of obtaining a photographic image of the corona of greater distinctness , in consequence of being in more-marked contrast with the atmospheric illumination .
Our climate is very unpropitious for such observations , as very few intervals , even of short duration , occur in which the atmospheric glare immediately about the sun is not very great .
Under these circumstances I think it is advisable to describe the results I have obtained without further delay .
The investigation was commenced at the end of May of this year , and the photographs were obtained between June and September 28th .
The plates which were successful are twenty in number .
In all these the coronal form appears to be present .
This appearance does not consist simply of increased photographic action immediately about the sun , but of distinct coronal forms and rays admitting in the best plates of measurement and drawing from them .
This agreement in plates taken on different days with different absorptive media interposed , and with the sun in different parts of the field , together with other necessary precautions observed , makes it evident that we have not to do with any instrumental effect .
The plates taken with very short exposures show the inner corona only , but its outline can be distinctly traced when the plates are examined under suitable illumination .
When the exposure was increased , the inner corona is lost in the outer corona , which shows the distinctly curved rays and rifts peculiar to it .
In the plates which were exposed for a longer time , not only the sun but the corona also is photographically reversed , and in these plates , having the appearance of a positive , the white reversed portion of the corona is more readily distinguished and followed in its irregularly sinuous outline than is the case in those plates where the sun only is reversed , and the corona appears , as in a negative , dark .
Professor Stokes was kind enough to allow me to send the originals* to Cambridge for his examination , and I have his permission to give the following words from a letter I received from him : " The appear1882 .
] Photographing the Solar Corona without an Eclipse .
418 ance is certainly very corona-like , and I am disposed to think it probable that it is really due to the corona .
" Professor Stokes 's opinion was formed from the appearance on the plates alone , and without any knowledge of their orientation .
I have since been allowed , through the kindness of Captain Abney , to compare my plates with those taken of the corona in Egypt during the eclipse of May last .
Though the corona is undergoing doubtless continual changes , there is reason to believe that the main features would not have suffered much alteration between May 17th and September 28th , when the last of my plates was taken .
This comparison seems to leave no doubt that the object photographed on my plate is the corona .
The more prominent features of the outer corona correspond in form and general orientation , and the inner corona , which is more uniform in height and definite in outline , is also very similar in my plates to its appearance in those taken during the eclipse .
Measures of the average height of the outer and of the inner corona in relation to the diameter of the sun 's image are the same in the eclipse plates as they are in my plates taken here .
There remains little doubt that by the method described in this paper , under better conditions of climate , and especially at considerable elevations , the corona may be successfully photographed from day to day with a definiteness which would allow of the study of the-changes which are doubtlessly always going on in it .
By an adjustment of the times of exposure , the inner or the outer corona could be obtained as might be desired .
It may be that by a somewhat greater restriction of the range of refrangibility of the light which is allowed to reach the plate , a still better result may be obtained .
Plates might be prepared sensitive to a limited range of light , but the rapid falling off of the coronal light about H would make it undesirable to endeavour to do without an absorptive screen .
Lenses properly corrected might be employed , but my experience shows that excessive caution would have to be taken in respect of absolute cleanness of the surfaces and of some other points .
There might be some-advantage in intercepting the direct light of the sun itself by placing an opaque disk of the size of the sun 's image upon the front surface of the absorptive screen .
Though for the reasons I have already stated I did not attempt eye-observations , there seems no reason why with suitable screens and under suitable atmospheric conditions the corona should not be studied directly by the eye .
There might be some advantages in supplementing the photographic records by direct eye-observations .
I regret that the very few occasions on which it has been possible to observe the sun has put it out of my power to make-further experiments in these and some other obvious directions .
414 Lord Rayleigh .
On the Dark Plane [ Dec. 21,1 Postscript.\#151 ; Received December 15 , 1882 .
I have Captain Abney 's permission to add the following letter this day received from him .
" A careful examination of your series of ^sun-photographs , taken with absorbing media , convinces me that your claim to having secured photographs of the corona with an uneclipsed sun , is fully established .
A comparison of your photographs with those obtained during the eclipse which took place in May last , shows not only that the general features are the same , but also that details such as rifts and streamers , have the same position and form .
If in your case the coronal appearances be due to instrumental causes , I take it that the eclipse photographs are equally untrustworthy , and that my lens and your reflector have the same optical defects , j think that evidence by means of photography of the existence of a .corona at all is as clearly shown in the one case as in the other."\#151 ; Dec. 15 , 1882 .
] IV .
" On the Dark Plane which is formed over a Heated Wire in Dusty Air .
" By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. , Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received December 8 , 1882 .
In the course of his examination of atmospheric dust as rendered .evident by a convergent beam from the electric arc , Professor Tyndall noticed the formation of streams of dust-free air rising from the summits of moderately heated solid bodies.* " To study this effect a platinum wire was stretched across the beam , the two ends of the wire being connected with the two poles of a galvanic battery .
To regulate the strength of the current a rheostat was placed in the circuit .
Beginning with a feeble current , the temperature of the wire was gradually augmented ; but before it reached the heat of ignition , a flat stream of air rose from it , which , when looked at edgeways , appeared darker and sharper than one of the blackest lines of Fraunhofer in the solar spectrum .
Right and left of this dark vertical band .the floating matter rose upwards , bounding definitely the non-luminous stream of air .
" ... .
" When the wire is white hot , it sends up a band of intense dark-mess .
This , I say , is due to the destruction of the floating matter .
But even when its temperature does not exceed that of boiling water , the wire produces a dark ascending current .
This , X say , is due to the .distribution of the floating matter .
Imagine the wire clasped by the mote-filled air .
My idea is that it heats the air and lightens it , without * " Proc. Roy .
Inst. , " vol. 6 , p. 3 , 1870 .

