i876 .
] Action of Light on Tellurium and Selenium .
II .
" On the Action of Light on Tellurium and Selenium .
" By Prof. W. G. Adams , F.R.S. Received November 10 , 1875 .
Two platinum wires were attached to the ends of a small bar of i ellurium , about 1 inch in length , by heating the wires to a bright red leat and bringing them suddenly in contact , one with each end of the , \gt ; are .
The platinum wires melted a small portion of the tellurium , and i \gt ; ecame imbedded in it .
The resistance of the bar and wires was about !
ialf an ohm .
The tellurium was placed in a box , and its resistance \gt ; alanced ; then it was exposed to the light of a paraffin-lamp , just as in he experiments with selenium .
At first the light seemed to have no I jffect ; but in consequence of the heat from the lamp , the resistance of I the tellurium was increased .
On placing a rectangular vessel of water between the lamp and the [ tellurium and then exposing as before , there was no change of resistance in the tellurium , showing that if there was any diminution in the resist-ince due to the action of light it was entirely balanced by the increase in 3 the resistance due to heating by the current and by the residual portion of the radiant heat .
On replacing the rectangular vessel of water by a beaker of water , so as to focus the light of the lamp on the tellurium , there was found on exposure to be a diminution in the resistance of the , which gra ; dually increased until the galvanometer-needle was deflected through 30 'divisions of the scale .
The needle was then brought back to zero by altering one of the slide-resistances in the circuit .
The agreement between the amounts of the change of resistance in several successive : experiments , with intervals between them , was very close .
Thus , in i three experiments on October 8th , The change in the first experiment was 124 millims. of wire , " " second " 120 " " " " third " " 122 " , * !
showing a diminution in the resistance of the tellurium amounting to f about one thousandth part of its whole resistance on exposure to the light of the paraffin-lamp .
On repeating the experiments with the tellurium which had not been iexposed to light for seven days , the tellurium was found to be much more sensitive .
" WRen exposed at a distance of about half a metre , as ' before , to the paraffin-lamp the needle was gradually deflected through 30 divisions of the scale , showing that the resistance of the tellurium I was now diminished as niuch without interposing the beaker of water as it had previously been when the beaker was interposed .
On making no r change whatever , except placing the beaker of water between the lamp and the tellurium , so as to focus the light on the tellurium , the deflection 3 of the needle gradually increased to 80 and then more slowly to 100 divi- 164 Prof. O. Reynolds on the [ Jan. 6 .
sions .
On balancing this deflection , it was found that , to bring the needle to zero , it was necessary to diminish the slide-resistance by 400 millims. Thus the diminution produced in the resistance by exposure to the light of the paraffin-lamp was -gfo part of the whole resistance of the tellurium .
On exposing the selenium bar used in my experiments to the direct rays of the same paraffin-lamp at the distance of 1 metre , the resistance of the selenium was diminished by one fifth of its whole resistance .
Prom the above experiment we see that at the distance of half a metre ( that is , with light of four times the intensity ) the change of resistance in the tellurium under the same conditions is only Par^ 'f its \#166 ; whole resistance .
On exposing the selenium to a constant source of light at different distances , the change in the resistance of the selenium on exposure for 10 seconds ( as measured by the swing of the galvanometer-needle ) is almost exactly inversely as the distance , directly as the square root of the illuminating power .
This law is true whether the source of light be 1 candle or an Argand lamp whose illuminating power is equal to 16 candles .
Taking the mean of a number of experiments , all of which agreed pretty well together , the deflections at the several distances were :\#151 ; At ^ metre .
At f metre .
At 1 metre .
At 2 metres .
With Argand lamp ... . .
, 170 83 39 " candle ... ... ... . . .
41 18 8 " candle ... ... ... .
82 39 18 8 Another series of experiments with a candle and Argand lamp ( when the illuminating power of the lamp was equal to 12 candles ) , both at the distance of 1 metre , gave the following results :\#151 ; With the candle the deflection was 19 in 10 seconds .
" Argand lamp " 66 " The ratio of the deflections is very nearly 1 to 3| .
These experiments clearly show that the change in the resistance of the selenium is directly as the square root of the illuminating power .
[ Correction.\#151 ; In my former paper on this subject ( Proc. Hoy .
Soc. vol. xxiii .
no. 163 ) , on page 536 , line 15 , omit the word " opposing , " and line 21 , for " which opposes* read " in the same direction as ; " also on page 539 , line 25 , for " which opposes a " read " in the same direction as the " ; to the end of line 26 add " but in the opposite direction .
" ] III .
\lt ; e On the Refraction of Sound by the Atmosphere .
" By Prof. Osborne Reynolds , Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received November 22,1875 .
( Abstract .
) This paper may be said to consist of two divisions .
The first contains an account of some experiments and observations undertaken with a view

