28 On the Peculiar Morphology of a Trypanosome from a Case Sleeping Sickness and the Possibility its being a Neiv Species ( T. rhodesiense ) .
By J. W. W. Stephens , M.D. Cantab .
, D.P.H. , and H. B. Fantham , D.Sc .
Bond .
, B.A. Cantab .
( Communicated by Prof. Major R. Boss , F.R.S. Received July 19 , 1910 .
) [ Plate 6 .
] Prefatory Note .
As already stated in a report to the Advisory Committee for the Tropical Diseases Research Fund , dated May 9,1910,1 noticed early in February , 1910 , while examining in class work a stained specimen of rat 's blood infected with what was supposed to be T. gambiense , a marked peculiarity in the morphology .
This peculiarity was so striking that I doubted whether the trypanosome with which I was dealing was really T. gambiense .
On making enquiries I was told that the strain was derived from a case of Sleeping Sickness then in Prof. Ross 's clinic in the Royal Southern Hospital , Liverpool .
To make certain that there was no error in this statement I myself infected a rat from the patient 's blood .
The same forms were , however , again encountered .
After convincing myself that these forms were constantly present in infected rats , and that they were not shown by the rats infected with the old laboratory strain of T. gambiense maintained at the Runcorn Laboratory , I decided through pressure of work to ask Dr. Fantham ( now working in the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine , under funds allotted by the Advisory Committee for the Tropical Diseases Research Fund ) to be so good as to assist me in the description of the morphology of this trypanosome .
The following paper is the outcome of our joint work.\#151 ; [ J. W. W. Stephens .
] History of the Strain . .
The trypanosomes used during this investigation were obtained from W. A. , male , aged 26 , a native of Northumberland , who was infected in North-East Rhodesia in September , 1909 .
It is necessary to set forth the itinerary of W. A. while in Africa , as he was never actually in an area infested with Glossina palpalis , so far as records are available , and indeed was never nearer ( Kasama ) than some 86 miles from such an area .
He first went to South Africa in July , 1904 , living in Johannesburg till the end of 1906 .
He then went to Salisbury for two years .
About the end of November , 1908 , he left Salisbury for North-Eastern Rhodesia , with a view Morphology of a Trypanosome Sleeping Sickness , etc. 29 to prospecting for minerals .
The party consisted of two Europeans and ten natives .
On the journey northwards he passed through Fort Jameson , Landazi , and Chinsali to Kasama , where lie arrived about the beginning of June , 1909 .
During this northward journey , W. A. passed through an area infested by Glossinamorsitans .
He stayed two months at Kasama , a place from which we have no records of any species of On the return journey he passed through Mpika ( where Glossina morsitans occurs ) , Serenje ( no records of Glossina ) , and Mzaza ( where there is morsitans ) .
He left Mzaza on September 10 , and travelling along the Luangwa River he reached Feira on September 28 .
During this part of the journey he would pass through an area infested by Glossina between Mzaza and Hargreaves .
He first fell ill on September 20 , but after a rest of two days continued his journey .
A short stay was made at Feira and then the return journey wTas continued through the Hartley district to Salisbury , where it wTas found that he and one native were suffering from trypanosomiasis\#151 ; parasites being found in his blood in Africa on November 17 , 1909 .
The patient stated that he had never been near either Lake Tanganyika , Lake Mweru or the Luapula River , which are known to be infested by Glossina palpalis .
He thought , himself , that he contracted trypanosomiasis while travelling along the Luangwa River , between Mzaza and Feira .
The Luangwa Yalley is heavily infested with Glossina morsitans , but Glossina .
palpalis has not yet been found along the course of this river .
Dr. Bagshawe 's article , already noted , on " The Transmission in Nature of Trypanosoma gambiensefshould be consulted as to cases of Sleeping Sickness contracted in areas infested by Glossina morsitans .
We may note that the case of W. A. has been studied by R. Ross and D. Thomson , f who have found a regular periodical increase in the numbers of the trypanosomes in the peripheral blood of the patient from day to day .
It is also of interest to record that the Rhodesian strain of trypanosome from W. A. is somewhat more virulent to rats and guinea\gt ; -pigs than the old laboratory strain of T. gambiense , a fact already confirmed by other workers in the laboratory .
Further , this Rhodesian trypanosome is resistant to atoxyl .
Morphological Features .
It may be stated at once that the peculiarity of this Rhodesian trypanosome is that among the stout or stumpy forms some have the nucleus at the posterior { non-flagellar ) end .
* Bagshawe , S.S. Bulletin , No. 18 , June , 1910 , p. 197 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1910 , vol. 82 , pp. 411-415 .
30 Drs. Stephens and Fantham .
Morphology of a [ July 19 ?
As will be seen from the accompanying figures ( Plate 6 , figs. 2 to 10 ) , the position of this " posterior " nucleus varies .
Starting from the stumpy forms in which the nucleus is in the middle ( fig. 1 ) , we have all transitions ( figs. 2 to 8 ) up to that in which the nucleus is actually terminal ( fig. 9 ) and posterior to the blepharoplast ( kinetonucleus ) .
We may meet here any objections that may he raised that the trypanosomes with posterior nucleus are due to distortion , dried films being used , because\#151 ; 1 .
We have never found them , though persistently looked for , in films from the same animals infected with the old laboratory strain of T. ( figs. 21 to 25 ) , treated in the same way , i.e. dried films ; 2 .
Further , we have examined the trypanosomes under discussion , by intra vitam staining with methylene blue\#151 ; by this method the posterior position of the nucleus can be seen ; and finally , 3 .
We have fixed wet films with sublimate-alcohol and with osmic vapour respectively , and subsequently stained them with hsematoxylin , and found the same forms .
Eats inoculated with the Ehodesian strain usually show a few long thin trypanosomes in the peripheral blood in about three days .
The stumpy forms of trypanosomes with the nucleus posterior ( figs. 2 to 10 ) appear about the fifth or sixth day , and from this time onwards somewhat increase in number up to the seventh to eleventh day .
They then form about 6 per cent , of the trypanosomes present , but may decrease again , varying from day to day .
These stumpy forms with posterior nucleus ( as depicted in figs. 2 to 8 ) are I7ya to 21 ^ long and 2 pto op broad .
The nucleus often shows a karyosome , and when at the level of the blepharoplast is often kidney-shaped ( tig .
8 .
) .
There is a well marked blepharoplast ( kinetonucleus ) and a definite undulating membrane with a flagellar border which terminates in a very .short free flagellum .
The cytoplasm of these forms is granular , especially at the anterior ( flagellar ) end , where coarse granules are seen in life , which granules are found to be chromatoid in nature on staining ( figs. 2 , 3 , 5 , and 8 ) .
These cytoplasmic characters are very like those seen in ordinary stumpy forms of T. gambiense(fig .
25 ) .
Sometimes a stained line is clearly seen in the stout forms , joining the blepharoplast to the nucleus ( fig. 10 ) .
We have little evidence as to the relationship of these forms with posterior nucleus to the stumpy forms with the nucleus in the ordinary ( central ) position ( fig. 1 ) , so content ourselves with pointing out that the existence of trypanosomes with posterior nuclei is quite characteristic of this 'Ehodesian strain , and is so marked a feature that we are always able in films to distinguish it from the old laboratory strain of T. gam " j Q ^ _ | rJ^1'yjpCLTb0S07}%"\gt ; j^'VOYfl ' CL ( JCL SC C)j SICCJ)l / LCj 31 These forms with the posterior nuclei are not confined to rats ( 30 " passages " ) , hut occur also in Macacusrhesus ( observed by Dr. York ) , rabbits , and guinea-pigs infected with this strain .
We have been unable to detect these forms in the case of Sleeping Sickness itself , for the number of trypanosomes present in the blood was always extremely scanty , and in infected rats showing an equally small number of trypanosomes we have also never been able to find them .
A subsidiary but perhaps not unimportant point in the Rhodesian strain is that many of the ordinary long forms have an elongated posterior end , and may be termed " snout " forms ( figs. 13 to 17 ) .
The " snout " forms occur more especially during the first half or two-thirds of the period of infection in rats .
These elongate forms , while not absent in the old laboratory strain of T. gambiense , yet are certainly more numerous in the Rhodesian strain and even by means of this feature we are able to distinguish the strains .
" Snout " forms were frequently seen in the blood of W. A. ( figs. 14 , 16 ) , and in guinea-pigs .
Bruce and Nabarro* have already noted these forms with elongate posterior ends .
Again , although forms with the blepharoplast terminal ( figs. 18 , 19 ) are found in the Rhodesian strain , they are less numerous than similar trypanosomes with terminal blepharoplast in the old laboratory strain .
We may also note in passing that pear-shaped ( fig. 11 ) or rounded forms with little or no free flagellum are not uncommon in the Rhodesian strain .
Summary and Conclusions .
1 .
We attach some importance to the fact that the patient ( now dead ) from whom this strain was derived was never , as far as careful enquiries could elicit , in a Glossinct palpalis area , but had been in many areas , and very probably in a small Glossi fusca area .
2 .
These posterior nuclear forms ( figs. 2 to 10 ) have not , as far as we are aware , been described either in the blood of Sleeping Sickness patients or in the blood of animals infected with T. gambiense .
Seeing how many competent observers have worked with T. gambiense , this is a striking point and can hardly be an oversight .
3 .
We ourselves have been unable to find posterior nuclear forms , though constantly searched for , in the blood of rats infected with the old laboratory strain of T. gambiense .
4 .
Posterior nuclear forms exist also , as is well known , in T. transvaaliense , and by Liihe these are regarded as developmental stages of T. * Royal Society : Reports of the Sleeping Sickness Commission , No. I , Plate 2 , fig. 4 .
32 Morphology of a Trypanosome of Sickness , etc. Whether this be so or not , the condition is not parallel to the one under discussion , for the differences in T. tare characteristic of all strains of this trypanosome , but the forms which we have described in this paper have , we believe , never been seen before in any strain of T. in man or animals , 5 .
We are aware that parasitic flagellates may exhibit morphological variations due to changes in metabolism or to differences in environment .
However , this Rhodesian strain of trypanosome with posterior nucleus was seen in rats infected from the patient before he was treated with drugs .
At first sight also it might appear that the posterior nucleus denoted merely approaching division or even assumption of the round form .
However , we have seen division of these posterior nuclear forms ( fig. 12 ) .
In any case the peculiar morphological feature exhibited by the Rhodesian trypanosome , in the possession of a posterior nucleus , has not been recorded before .
As to the meaning to be attached to these forms , we will consider the following main possibilities :\#151 ; ( a ) That we are dealing with a " variety " or " local race " of T. gambiense due to some change of environment .
The possibility in this case exists of T. gambiense having been conveyed by a species of other than Glossina palpalis , which may account for the peculiar morphology we record ; but it must be added that we have no knowledge of any other trypanosome undergoing similar changes owing to such a cause .
That it is a " laboratory " variation we think is out of the question , as all the known laboratory strains of T. gambiense are practically identical in morphology .
( b)That we are dealing with a new species of trypanosome also producing* Sleeping Sickness in man .
In support of this view there is firstly , the morphology , which considered alone is strong evidence , since the Rhodesian trypanosome differs from T. gambiense more than , for instance , T. does from T. evansi .
Secondly , there is the history , taken in connection with the fact that , so far as we know , T. gambiense is conveyed solely by Glossina palpalis , but even should it prove that Glossina exists in the districts through which W. A. travelled , then all the more probable is it that we are dealing with a new species of trypanosome .
It seems to us , however , that it is difficult in the absence of further knowledge to discriminate with certainty between these views .
Yet , on account of its peculiar morphological features , this Rhodesian trypanosome at least merits a distinct designation as T. gambiense rhoclesiense , adopting the trinomial nomenclature .
Our own view , however , is that we are dealing with a new species of human trypanosome for which we propose the name Trypanosoma rhodesicnse .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. B. S ' ' Plate West , Newman lilh .
Influence of Bacterial Endotoxins on , etc. 33 EXPLANATION OF PLATE No. 6 .
All figures drawn with Abb6 camera lucida , using 2 mm. apochromatic objective and 12 compensating ocular ( Zeiss ) .
Magnification 1800 diameters approximately .
Figs. 1-20\#151 ; Rhodesian strain of human trypanosome .
Figures drawn from parasites in the blood of rats , except where otherwise stated .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Stout form with nucleus median .
Figs. 2-8.\#151 ; Stout and stumpy forms , each with posterior nucleus .
The nucleus is seen gradually to become more posterior , till it lies behind the blepharoplast ( fig. 9 ) .
10___Posterior nuclear form with line connecting blepharoplast and nucleus .
Fig. 11\#151 ; Posterior nuclear form becoming rounded .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; Posterior nuclear form showing division .
Figs. 13\#151 ; 17.\#151 ; " Snout " forms .
( Figs. 13 , 15 from rat 's blood , figs. 14 , 16 , 17 from man .
) Figs. 18 , 19.\#151 ; Forms with terminal blepharoplast .
Fig. 20.\#151 ; Multiple division form , with four blepharoplasts and two nuclei .
Such parasites are not uncommon in the Rhodesian strain .
Figs. 21-25.\#151 ; Various trypanosomes drawn from the blood of rats infected with the old laboratory strain of T. gambiense .
The Influence of Bacterial Endotoxins on Phagocytosis , including a New Method for the Differentiation of Bacteria .
( Second Report .
) By Leonard S. Dudgeon , P. 1ST .
Panton and H. A. F. Wilson .
( Communicated by Dr. F. W. Mott , F.R.S. Received August 2 , \#151 ; Read November 17 , 1910 .
) ( From the Pathological Laboratories , St. Thomas 's Hospital .
) It was shown in a paper communicated by us to the Royal Society in April , 1910\#151 ; ( a ) That bacterial endotoxins have the power of inhibiting phagocytosis ; that in some cases this action is general , but in most cases it is specific .
( b ) That the endotoxic substance is unaltered by prolonged exposure to high temperatures .
( c ) That , as far as our experiments then carried us , the inhibition of phagocytosis appeared to result from an interaction between endotoxin and serum .
The further investigations which form the basis of this communication have been mainly directed towards the elucidation of the mode of action of the endotoxic substance .
Firstly , whether it acts on the serum , the VOL. LXXXIII.-----B .
D

