Of the Nerves which associate the Muscles of the Chest , in the actions of Breathing , Speaking , and Expression ' .
Being a Continuation of the Paper on the Structure and Functions of the NVerves .
By Charles Bell , Esq. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. LL. D. P.R.S. Read May 2 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 284 .
] This paper forms the continuation of that printed in the last volume of the Society 's Transactions , by the same author .
In tho present communication the author proceeds to show that the office of the respiratory apparatus is not confined to the changes produced upon the blood , but that the same actions are employed in subservience to other organs , and that they perform a variety of functions , as in the natural voice in articulate language , and in the expression of passion , as well as in the more familiar acts of smelling , coughing , sneezing , &amp;c. Having established the proofs of the necessity of a number of remote parts being joined in the performance of these functions , he proceeds to show that there is a distinct class of nerves for this purpose .
That these nerves depart from the same column of the spinal marrow , and diverge to all the parts of the frame , which are drawn into consent in the action of respiration .
Proceeding to show the difference betwixt the calm and uniform breathing for the purposes of circulation , and the excited and more irregular actions , as in speaking , singing , coughing , and sneezing , he proves the necessity of certain powerful muscles being brought in as accessories and aids to the common muscles of respiration .
He nexts shows that the respiratory nerves are entirely distributed to these accessory muscles .
After tracing these nerves , and disengaging them from their intricate relation with the other nerves , he proceeds , by comparative anatomy , and by experiments , to 'show that they are respiratory nerves , and that their division cuts off the parts to which they are respectively distributed from participating in the act of respiration .
He takes occasion to show that authors have attended too exclusively to the par vagum , or eighth pair of nerves , which is only the principal or central nerve of an extensive class of nerves , which have the same root , and receive their power from the same source ; and that when injured in their common origin , there is a simultaneous cessation of motion in all the apparatus of respiration , that breathing instantly ceases , and with it life .
Touching on Pathology , he assigns reasons for believing thatsudden death , when there is no apparent injury of vital organs , is by disorder of this division of the nervous system .
Having distinguished these nerves from the common voluntary and sensible nerves on the one hand , and from the sympathetic system on the other , he proceeds to show that expression is seated in these nerves .
That they are not merely the nerves which order the motions of breathing , the nerves of natural and articulate language , but that through them the breast , chest , and face become the organs of expression , whenever the heart is agitated by sentiment or passion ; and that without their instrumentality , the utmost agitation of the spirits in passion would be attended with no outward sign .

