An Account of Observations made with the Eight-Feet Astronomical Circle , at the Observatory of Trinity College , Dublin , since the Beginning of the Year 1818 , for Investigating the Effects of Parallax and Aberration on the Places of certain fixed Stars ; also the Comparison of these with former Observations for determining the Effects of Lunar Nutation .
By the Reverend John Brinkley , D.D. F.R.S. and M.R.I.A. Andrews Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin .
Read June 21 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 327 .
] The observations , of which the details are given in this communication , were instituted with a view to discover the source of the differences that have existed between the observations made at Greenwich and those at Dublin .
Dr. Brinkley 's former observations of certain stars pointed out a deviation of about one second from the mean place , after having made all usual corrections .
Mr. Pond 's observations pointed out no such deviations .
Dr. Brinkley referred the deviations which he had observed to parallax ; and his principal object in the present paper is to ascertain how far that opinion is correct , and to show that no change of figure in the instrument , nor any uncertainties of the changes of refraction , can be admitted as the causes of the effects observed .
As , in deducing the quantity of parallax , the results must be affected by any uncertainty in the constant of aberration ; and , in like manner , as in investigating the constant of aberration , from observations of a given star , the parallax , if any , will be involved , the author adopted the following process in reducing the observations , The observed zenith distances of a given star were reduced to January 1st , 1819 , by the common equations , taking the constant of aberration 20 " 25 .
The mean of these was taken .
The correct mean zenith distance was supposed equal to this mean e ; the constant of aberration = 20/ " 25 + x ; and the semi-parallax = p. The equations of condition thus resulting from the respective observations , thus contained three unknown quantities .
These equations were reduced to three by the method of making the sum of the squares of the errors a minimum .
The solutions of these three equations give the values of e and p , and thence the values of the mean polar distance , constant of aberration , and semi-parallax .
After a very detailed account of the method of conducting his observations , instituted with a view of obtaining an explanation of the source of the difference of the results of his former observations , and of those of Mr. Pond relative to parallax , Dr. Brinkley states his inability to detect any such explanation , or to obtain any result opposed to his former conclusions : he remarks , however , that the discordances between his observations and those made at Greenwich , may by some be considered as showing the great precision of modern observations , since the whole extent of the absolute difference is only about one second .
Independent , however , of the interest of the question of parallax , it is iiiportant , he observes , to ascerttain the origin of this small diffe-rence .

