Anatomy , fyc .
, of Protopterus annectens .
54D IV .
" On the Anatomy and Physiology of Protopterus annectensP By W. N. Parker , Ph. D. , F.Z.S. , Professor of Biology in University College , Cardiff .
Communicated by W. H. Flower , F.R.S. Received May 4 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The work which has resulted in the present paper was begun in Freiburg in the summer of 1888 , when the author was fortunate enough , owing to the generosity of Professor Wiedersheim , to obtain a number of fresh specimens for examination .
As so many interesting points presented themselves at an early stage in the research , a short preliminary notice , without illustrations , was published in the following autumn ( ' Berichte d. Naturforsch .
Gesellschaft zu Freiburg i.Br .
, ' vol. 4 , 1888).* This notice merely forms the basis of the present paper , in which the whole subject has been worked out in greater detail .
A number of new facts are recorded , some of the author 's earlier conclusions modified , and the paper illustrated with 11 plates containing 71 figures .
With the exception of certain special details , the structure of the skeleton and of the nervous and muscular systems is not described , the paper consisting mainly of an account of other organs which have not received so much attention from previous observers , and of a comparison of Protopterus with the other genera of Dipnoi , so far as their structure is known , as well as with other Ichthyopsida .
The author returns his sincere thanks to the Council of the Royal Society for the grant out of which various expenses connected with the investigation Were defrayed , as well as to Professor Wiedersheim , not only for the gift of abundant fresh and preserved material , but also for his continued help and advice during the progress of the work .
To Professor Howes the author is indebted for many valuable suggestions .
A number of details with regard to the habits of Protopterus in captivity are given , and reference is made to Stuhlmann 's observations with regard to its mode of life under natural conditions .
The paired extremities , the movements of which are more like those of limbs than of fins , show no connexion with the cheiroptery-gium , and , in spite of their considerable nerve supply , are evidently greatly degenerated structures as regards their free portions .
Sensory organs are not present on them , and they therefore cannot have a tactile function .
Their distal ends , like the apex of the tail , are very variable , and can undoubtedly be reproduced when lost by * See also ' Nature , ' vol. 39 , p. 19 .
550 Prof. W. N. Parker .
Anatomy and [ May 28 , accident .
The tail is almost certainly not primarily diphycercal , and shows signs of a possible origin from a heterocercal form .
The epidermis on the whole most nearly resembles that of Perenni-branchiate Amphibians , and gives rise to simple multicellular glands ( which are most numerous on the snout ) , as well as to very numerous closely-packed goblet-cells , which produce the gluey secretion as well as the main substance of the capsule which surrounds the animal during the torpid state .
The epidermis forms a regular and continuous layer over the derma , in which the cycloid imbricating scales are imbedded .
Pigment cells are present in both layers of the integument , and the derma encloses nests of leucocytes here and there , small cells , apparently migratory leucocytes , being seen in places amongst the ordinary epidermic cells .
Integumentary sense organs , similar to those of Pishes and larval Amphibians , are present not only on the head and lateral line , but in various other regions of the trunk also ; they are most numerous on the head .
In young animals they are all superficial , and do not project below the general level of the epidermis , - and this condition is retained in those situated on the trunk .
On the head , the epidermis becomes involuted along certain lines to form g'rooves , which then become converted into sub-epidermic tubes , in which the sensory organs are situated , and which communicate with the exterior by an aperture at one end .
The relations of the sensory organs of the trunk are therefore similar to those seen in young stages of Fishes and in Amphibian larvae , while in the case of the head , they resemble those which are typical for adult Fishes .
End-buds , similar in structure to the taste-buds of Fishes and Amphibians , are present on the tongue and oral epithelium , but are absent on the lips , and , as in Amphibians , do not occur on the surface of the body .
As regards its general structure , the olfactory organ most nearly resembles that of Elasmobranchs , but the presence of posterior nostrils raises it to a higher level .
The position of the anterior nostrils beneath the upper lip is probably to be accounted for as an adaptation in connexion with the torpid state ( vide infra ) .
The space between the eyeball and its muscles and the orbit is filled with a delicate connective tissue ; there are no orbital glands or eyelids .
Four straight and two oblique muscles are present .
The cornea is continuous with the derma on the one hand , and the sclerotic on the other ; the latter is fibrous in young animals , and islands of cartilage first appear at the points of insertion of eye-muscles , and then gradually extend so as to chondrify the whole sclerotic .
The eye resembles that of Amphibians ; a processus falciformis and campanula Halleri are absent , and no ciliary muscles were observed , though possibly present ; almost all the pigment of the eye is ectodermic .
Ho specialised glands are present in connexion with the greatly 1891 .
] Physiology ofProtopterus annectens .
551 folded epithelium of the oral cavity .
The lips contain no muscles .
The tongue , as well as the palate , is covered with blunt conical papillse , on which the taste-buds are\gt ; situated .
Beneath the epithelium the tongue is composed anteriorly to the hyoid of a simple connective tissue , while posteriorly to the hyoid it is made up of extrinsic muscles , the main mass of which is continuous with the ventral musculature of the trunk .
A horny cap is developed over each tooth from the overlying epithelium , which apparently becomes cut through by the sharp edges and points of the teeth , and which probably corresponds to the cuticula dentis .
The thyroid is a small bilobed organ imbedded in the tongue just above the hyoid symphysis , and has the characteristic structure .
The thymus consists of lymphoid tissue , and is situated dorsally and posterior to the branchial arches , surrounding the blood-vessels of the external gills .
The alimentary canal extends almost in a straight line from the mouth to the vent .
A ventral , as well as a fenestrated dorsal , mesentery is present supporting the intestine .
The so-called urinary bladder ( " cloacal caecum " ) opens into the cloaca dorsally to the intestine ; the author compares it with the " processus digitiformis " of Elasmobranchs .
A spleen and pancreas are present , imbedded in the thin walls of the stomach , and extending on to the proximal part of the intestine ; they are covered externally by sparse muscular fibres as well as by the peritoneum .
The relations of the pancreas therefore most nearly resemble those met with in Ganoids and certain Teleosteans .
The pancreas is deeply pigmented , and its ducts open into the bile-duct .
The pigmented walls of the intestine and the spiral valve are very thick , owing to the abundance of lymphoid tissue contained within them .
With the exception of the bursa entiana , the internal walls of which are raised up into a number of deeply pigmented oblique folds , the whole of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestine is perfectly smooth , and there is no indication of any differentiated gastric or intestinal glands .
Cilia are present on the epithelium throughout the stomach and intestine .
The epithelium is columnar and stratified , and branched pigment cells extend into it in the greater part of the intestine .
Small leucocytes can be recognised among the epithelial cells here and there .
A layer of small-celled lymphoid tissue directly underlies the epithelium .
In the spleen and lymphoid organs of the intestine two kinds of tissue are present : ( 1 ) a large-celled tissue , which forms the greater part of these organs , and which somewhat resembles embryonic connective tissue ; and ( 2 ) a smaller-celled tissue , similar to that lying directly beneath the epithelium , and resembling that of ordinary lymphoid follicles .
Large migratory cells are present in both kinds of tissue , many of which enclose 552 Prof. W. N. Parker .
the Anatomy and [ May 28 , yellowish granules .
Gradations between these and rounded cells of a deeper yellow or brown colour can apparently be made out ; the latter are arranged in larger or smaller groups , and cells appearing to be intermediate forms between these and the ordinary black branched pigment cells can also be seen .
The lymphoid tissue is penetrated by networks of blood-vessels , and it seems probable that the yellow granules mentioned above are due to the disintegration of red corpuscles , which are ingested by leucocytes , and then undergo some change , whereby the latter gradually pass into the condition of black pigment cells , which migrate through the epithelium , and are so got rid of .
The muscular layers are very thin .
A muscularis mucosse is present , and the circular and longitudinal layers are represented , but the direction of the fibres is in many regions difficult to trace .
Strands , only a few cells in thickness , extend throughout the lymphoid tissue of the intestine , and some of these unite to form a longitudinal band passing down the axis of the spiral valve .
An analysis of the contents of the gut , for which the author is indebted to Professor Baumann , while yielding negative results as regards the stomach , proves the presence of peptones , in small quantities , in the intestine .
The question as to the mode of digestion and absorption of the food in Protopterus is discussed .
The branchial apparatus shows signs of considerable reduction .
Internal gills are present on the posterior face of the hyoid , on both faces of the third and fourth branchial arches , and on the anterior face of the fifth .
Three pairs of external gills were present in all specimens , even the largest , examined .
The pulmonary apparatus , on the whole , more nearly resembles the air-bladder and its duct of certain Ganoids than the lungs and laryngo-tracheal chamber of Amphibians .
The pulmonary branches of the vagus cross one another at the base of the lungs .
The blood is remarkable for the large size of its elements , which is only exceeded in the case of Proteus and as well as for the large proportion of white corpuscles in comparison with the red ones .
Two forms of the former are described , in one of which fine radiating pseudopodia can be protruded , and different stages in the degeneration of the nucleus and cell-body could be observed .
The chief points of interest with regard to the blood-vessels are as follows ( 1 ) the presence of a paired pulmonary artery , the left supplying the ventral , and the right the dorsal , aspect of the lungs ; ( 2 ) the presence of a single tiue post-caval , along with a persistent left posterior cardinal vein ; and ( 3 ) the single caudal vein , giving rise to a right and a left renal portal .
No external sexual differences could be observed , and amongst the specimens examined , females were the more abundant .
The urino-genital oigans are surrounded by masses of tissue resembling the 1891 .
] Physiology of Protopterus annectens .
553 large-celled lymphoid tissue of the gut , but differing from the latter in becoming largely converted into adipose tissue .
The kidneys probably represent the mesonephros , and their duct the Wolffian duct ; nephrostom.es are absent .
In unripe males , delicate Mullerian ducts are present .
The sperm is conducted to the exterior by a duct , which is probably formed in connexion with the testis , quite independently of the excretory apparatus .
The seminal tubules are directly connected with it , and it opens into the base of the Mullerian duct , the rest of which apparently aborts completely .
Unlike most of the tissue elements , which are very large , and closely resemble those of the Amphibia , the spermatozoa are very minute , and are remarkable in possessing two vibratile flagella attached to the carrot-shaped " head .
" The generative organs of the female bear a striking resemblance to those of Amphibians .
The oviduct corresponds to the Mullerian duct ; the epithelium covering its internal folds shows signs of degeneration similar to those which have recently been described amongst Urodeles .
Ho traces of a sympathetic were found .
An account of the mode of life of Protopterus during the torpid period is given .
The coccoon is provided with a " lid , " perforated by a hollow funnel-shaped tube , which passes between the lips of the animal , and thus forms a passage for the respiratory current .
The source of nutriment during the summer sleep lies in the adipose tissue in connexion with the gonads and kidneys and alongside the notochord in the tail , as well as in the lateral muscles , some of which , especially in the caudal region , undergo a granular degeneration .
Very probably the latter is the precursor of the fatty degeneration , and , in all probability , leucocytes are the active transporting agents of the degenerated material .
This assumption would help to explain the large development of lymphoid tissue in the body of the animal .
An analysis of the muscles , by Professor Baumann , shows that they do not retain quantities of the products of nitrogenous waste , as is the case in Elasmobranchs .
The systematic position of the Dipnoi is briefly discussed in the light of the new facts brought forward in the present paper .
Although the Dipnoi present many points of resemblance to Fishes on the one hand , and to the lower Amphibians on the other , their connexion with any living forms of either class is probably a very distant one , and it is inadvisable to classify them amongst the Fishes .
Owing to the absence of ontological evidence , and to the incompleteness of our knowledge of the palaeontological history of the Dipnoi , it is impossible to construct a genealogical tree which will show , with any .approach to accuracy , the probable connexion between them and other 554 Presents .
[ May 28 , .
Ichthyopsidan types .
The most that can he said at present , with anything like certainty , is that the Dipnoi are the isolated survivors of an exceedingly ancient group , which was probably related to the ancestors of existing Fishes and Amphibians .
Amongst the former , the connexion seems to be closest to the Elasmobranchs , more particularly to the Chimseroids on the one hand , and to such an ancient Selachian type as Chlamydoselache on the other ; but at the same time , the Ganoids probably arose from the common ancestral stock not very far off .
Though retaining many primitive characters , the Dipnoi , and more especially Protopterus and Lepidosiren , are in some respects highly specialised , the specialisation being largely due to a change of habit .
Y. " On the Constitution of the Terpenes , Camphors , and Camphor Acids .
" By J. Norman Collie , M.D. Communicated by Professor Ramsay , F.R.S. Received April 29 , 1891 .
[ Publication deferred .
] Presents , May 28 , 1891 .
Transactions .
Acireale :\#151 ; Societa Italiana dei Microscopisti .
Bollettino .
Yol .
I. Fasc .
4 .
8vo .
Acireale 1891 .
The Society .
Baltimore Johns Hopkins University .
Studies in Historical and Political Science .
Nos. 5-6 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1891 ; Annual Report , 1890 .
8vo .
Baltimore .
With Twelve Dissertations and Excerpts .
8vo .
The University Berlin:\#151 ; Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde .
Zeitschrift .
Bd .
XXVI No. 2 .
8vo .
Berlin 1891 .
The Society Buda - Pest:\#151 ; K. Ungarische Geologische Anstalt .
Foldtani Kozlony .
Kotet XXI .
Fiizet 1-3 .
8vo .
Budapest 1891 , Jahresbericht fur 1889 .
8vo .
Budapest 1891 ; Mittheilungen Bd .
IX .
Heft 3\#151 ; o. 8vo .
Budapest 1891 .
The Institute Calcutta : Asiatic Society of Bengal .
Proceedings .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Calcutta 1891 ; Annual Address to the Asiatic Society of Bengal .
8vo .
Calcutta 1891 . .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass .
Museum of Comparative Zoology , Harvard College .
Bulletin .
Yol .
XXI .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Cambridge ^\#166 ; ^1 The Museum* Chapel Hill , N.C. : Elisha Mitchell Scientific Society .
Journal .
Yol .
VII .
Part 2 .
8vo .
Raleigh 1891 .
The Society .

