56 On the Transformation .[Jan .
8 , III .
" A Memoir on the Transformation of Elliptic Functions .
" By Professor Cayley , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The theory of Transformation in Elliptic Functions was established by Jacobi in the 'Fundamenta Nova ' ( 1829 ) ; and he has there developed , transcendentally , with an approach to completeness , the general case , n an odd number , but algebraically only the cases n=3 and 5 ; viz. in the general case the formulae are expressed in terms of the elliptic functions of the nth part of the complete integrals , but in the cases n=3 and n=5 they are expressed rationally in terms of u and v ( the fourth roots of the original and the transformed moduli respectively ) , these quantities being connected by an equation of the order 4 or 6 , the modular equation .
The extension of this algebraical theory to any value whatever of n is a problem of great interest and difficulty .
The general case should admit of being treated in a purely algebraical manner ; but the difficulties are so great that it was found necessary to discuss it by means of the formulae of the transcendental theory , in particular by means of the expressions involving Jacobi 's q ( the exponential of \#151 ; or , say , by means of the g-transcendants .
Several important contributions to the theory have since been made:\#151 ; Sohnke , " Equationes Modulares pro transformatione funetionum Ellipticarum , " Crelle , t. xvi .
( 1836 ) , pp. 97-130 ( where the modular equations are found for the cases 3 , 5 , 7 , 11 , 13 , 17 , \amp ; 19 ) ; Joubert , " Sir divers equations analogues aux equations modulaires dans la theory des fonctions elliptiques , " Comptes Rendus , t. xlvii .
( 1858 ) , pp. 337-345 ( relating among other things to the multiplier equation for the determination of Jacobi 's M ) ; and Konigsberger , " Algebraische Un-tersuchungen aus der Theory der elliptischen Functionen , " Crelle , t. lxxii .
( 1870 ) , pp. 176-275 ; together with other papers by Joubert and by Hermit in later volumes of the * Comptes Rendus , ' which need not be more particularly referred to .
In the present Memoir I carry on the theory , algebraically as far as I am able ; and I have , it appears to me , put the purely algebraical question in a clearer light than has hitherto been done ; but 1 still find it necessary to resort to the transcendental theory .
I remark that the case n=7 ( next succeeding those of the 1 Fundamenta Nova ' ) , on account of the peculiarly simple form of the modular equation ( 1\#151 ; w8)(l \#151 ; v8)=(l\#151 ; uvf , presents but little difficulty ; and I give the complete formulae for this case , obtaining them as well algebraically as transcendentally ; I also to a considerable extent discuss algebraically the case of the next succeeding prime value 11 .
For the sake of completeness I reproduce Sohnke 's modular equations , exhibiting them for greater clearness in a square form , and adding to them those for the non-prime cases n\#151 ; 9 and \#171 ; =15 ; also a valuable table given by him for the powers of / ( q ) ; and I give other tabular results which are of assistance in the theory .

