IV .
" Experiments , made at Watford , on the Vibrations occasioned by Railway Trains passing through a Tunnel .
" By Sir JAMES SOUTH , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Member of the Board of Visitors of the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
Received June 17 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) These experiments were made in consequence of an attempt in 1846 to run a line of railway through Greenwich Park , in what seemed to several competent judges a dangerous proximity to the Royal Observatory .
It was abandoned , but ( as Sir James South was informed ) only for a time ; and he thought it right to make some examination of the probable effects of such a vicinity , especially as to the power of a tunnel in deadening the vibrations .
The Watford tunnel was chosen as the observing station , being , on the high authority of the late Mr. Warburton , in ground very analogous to that on which the Royal Observatory stands ; and every facility for making observations was afforded by the late Earl of Essex , through whose park and preserves this tunnel passes .
As the chief inconvenience to be feared from the proposed railway was the disturbance of the observations by reflexion in mercury , it seemed best to take a series of these under circumstances as nearly as possible resembling those which might be expected at Greenwich .
An Observatory was therefore erected , in which a large and powerful [ June 18 , 630 transit-instrument was mounted , with all the attention to stability that could be given in a first-class Observatory ; and it had sufficient azimuthal motion to enable the observer to follow the Pole-star in its whole course ; so that night or day ( if clear ) , he could have the reflected image of the star in the mercurial vessel , ready to testify against the tremors caused by any train .
The distance of the vessel from the nearest part of the tunnel was 302 yards , that proposed for Greenwich belng 286 yards .
The length of the tunnel is 1812 yards ; its southern or London end is 643 yards from where the mercury was placed , its northern or Tring end 1281 yards ; and about 64 feet of chalk and gravel lie above the brickwork of its crown .
The author 's preparations were not complete till December 1846 , and then a continuance of cloudy weather interfered with observation till January the 11th , 1847 , when and on the following nights he obtained results so decisive that he felt it his duty to communicate them at once to the then First Lord of the Admiralty , the late Lord Auckland , who was so satisfied with them , that in a letter to Sir James , dated " Admiralty , Jan. 26 , 1847 , " he recorded the impression they had made on his mind in the following words:-- " They would be quite conclusive if the question of carrying a tunnel through Greenwich Park were again to be agitated .
" Sir James , however , continued the work to the end of March .
With the ordinary disturbance to which an Observatory is liable ( as wind , carriages , or persons moving near it ) , the reflected image of a star breaks up into a line of stars , perpendicular to the longest side of the mercury-vessel .
With increased agitation , another line of stars perpendicular to the first appears , making a cross .
With still more the cross becomes a series of parallel lines of stars ; still more makes the images oscillate ; and at last all becomes a confused mass of nebulous light .
The first of these ( the line ) is not injurious to onec lass of observations ; but the others are , and therefore the second ( the cross ) was taken as a measure of the beginning and end of injurious disturbance .
Signal shots were fired when a train passed the southern entrance of the tunnel , and a shaft 1162 yards from it .
Hence the train 's velocity was obtained , and thence its position at any given time .
Upwards of 230 observations are given in detail , and their most important results are shown in a Table , which contains the date , the 22 1863 .
] 631 distances at which the cross of stars begins and ceases to be visible , those at which the series of parallel lines is seen , the velocity in miles per hour , the weight of each engine , and also the length and weight of each train ( when it could be identified ) .
This Table proves that in all cases but one ( which in fact is scarcely an exception ) there is sufficient vibration to excite the cross at 670 yards , and that in 24 per cent. of the number it is seen beyond 1000 , its maximum being 1176 .
At the southern end such distances reach far beyond the tunnel , while at the north they fall within it .
From comparing them in the two cases , the author infers that the train 's agitation extends laterally as far when it is in the tunnel as when in the open cutting .
The amount of disturbance does not depend solely on the velocity and weight of the train , but also on other circumstances , of which prolonged action and length of train are the chief .
In one instance , with only a velocity of 11'4 miles , the cross was seen at 1110 yards-a proof that no regulation of the speed in passing an Observatory at a distance of 300 or 400 yards would be of any avail .
The system of parallel lines is only seen between lines making angles of 450 with the perpendicular to the rails , that is , at distances under 427 yards ; it scarcely ever is produced unless the cross be visible beyond 1000 yards .
These forms are also produced by the reports of cannon of twelve ounces calibre , at distances from 300 to 3000 yards ; in the last case there is but a faint trace of the cross .
In all , the appearance is momentary , not lasting in any case more than a second and a half .
They are not produced by the roar of a two-pound rocket fired 82 feet from the mercury , though very loud .
When the cannon were fired in the tunnel , where the perpendicular meets it , two sets of tremors were seen-one , he believes , propagated through the ground , the other through the air about a second later , the sound escaping probably through the shafts .
Attempts were made to substantiate or refute this hypothesis ; but the difficulties of rapidly shifting and unshifting the coverings prepared for the purpose were such as to compel him to relinquish them .
These observations were reduced in 184 7 ; but conceiving all danger to the Royal Observatory was past , the author did not think it necessary then to proceed with them .
As , however , no Observatory 63 can now be considered secure from railway injury , he wishes to make them public , in hopes that they may be useful , not only to practical astronomy , but to some other departments of science .

