58 The Sublimation of Metals at Low Pressures .
By G. W. C. Kaye , B.A. , D.Sc .
, and Donald Ewen , M.Sc .
( Communicated by Dr. R. T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received June 10 , \#151 ; ' Read June 26 , 1913 .
) ( From the National Physical Laboratory .
) [ Plate 5 .
] Introductory .
Many metals have been found to exhibit evidences of volatility at temperatures considerably below their melting points .
As long ago as 1872 , Merget* demonstrated that frozen mercury volatilised perceptibly in air in course of time .
Demar(}ay , 'f* in 1882 , conducted similar experiments vacuo and found that cadmium evaporated sensibly at as low a temperature as 160 ' , zinc at 184 ' , and lead and tin at 360 ' C. In 1887 , Zenghelioj obtained evidence of the volatility of lead , copper , zinc , etc. , even at room temperatures .
Spring , S in 1894 , working at atmospheric pressure , showed that zinc was appreciably volatile at 300 ' , and cadmium and copper at 500 ' .
Roberts-Austen and Merrett , in some unpublished experiments at the Royal Mint , in 1896 , detected the volatility of cadmium and zinc at 100 ' in vacuo , while Krafft|| in 1903 and 1905 investigated in some detail the volatilisation of a number of metals at low pressures .
Rosenhain , at the National Physical Laboratory , has obtained beautiful crystals of sublimed zinc by heating a piece of zinc to 300 ' C. for some weeks in a glass tube containing hydrogen at atmospheric pressure .
The notable phenomena of the interdiffusion of metals , with which Roberts-Austen 's name is associated , provide , of course , additional evidence of the vapour pressure that solid metals exert even at ordinary temperatures .
A familiar illustration of metallic volatilisation is furnished by the blackening of tungsten and carbonlf filament lamps .
Deposits of definite outline can occasionally be detected on the bulbs of the lamps ; a fact which seems to point to the projection of particles in definite directions from the filament .
* Merget , 'Ann .
Chim .
Phys. , ' 1872 , vol. 25 , p. 121 .
t Demargay , ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1882 , vol. 95 , p. 183 .
f Zenghelio , ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' 1887 , vol. 1 , p. 219 .
S Spring , ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1894 , p. 42 .
|| Krafft , 'Ber .
Deut .
Chem. Gesell .
, ' 1903 , vol. 36 , p. 1690 , and 1905 , vol. 38 , p. 254 .
IT Berthelot showed , in 1904 , that such vaporised carbon is not graphitic , but amorphous .
The Sublimation of Metals at Low Pressures .
59 The extent of the disintegration exhibited by a heated metal depends a great deal on its nature .
In the case of the metals of the platinum group , Crookes* found that when they were heated in still air at atmospheric pressure , they arranged themselves in the following order of increasing volatility : Eh , Pt , Pd , Ir , and Ru .
The marked volatility of iridium at temperatures above 1000 ' C. has long been known to users of platinum-iridium thermocouples .
The disintegration of a metal increases rapidly with a rise in the temperature , and almost all observers are agreed that the presence of oxygen serves to augment the effect , at any rate in those cases which have been investigated .
Hydrogen and nitrogen do not , in general , favour disintegration .
The platinum metals , with the exception of palladium , all disintegrate less as the pressure is lowered , and accordingly it does not appear that in these cases the effect is one of true sublimation .
Robertsf has recently conducted experiments with these metals , and infers that the volatilisation is not a simple process , but is brought about by the formation of endothermic oxides more volatile than the metals themselves , j With most other metals , however , we should naturally expect volatilisation to be facilitated by a reduction of pressure .
We have collected in the following table , the data for a number of metals for which information Metal .
Boiling point .
Volatilisation detectable at Melting point at 1 atmos .
At 1 atmos .
\#166 ; In vacuo .
0 c. 'c .
' c. ' c. Mercury 357 160 -39 -39 Potassium 760 370 63 63 Sodium 880 420 97 97 Cadmium 778 450 160 321 Zinc 918 550 180 419 Bismuth 1420 1000 269 269 Lead 1525 1150 360 327 Silver 1955 1400 ?
680 961 Copper 2310 1600 ?
400 1084 Tin 2270 1700 ?
360 232 Gtold 2530 ?
1800 ?
1370 1064 Iron 2450 \#151 ; 950 1500 Platinum 2500 ?
\#151 ; 1200 1750 * Crookes , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' May , 1912 , A , vol. 86 , p. 461 .
t Roberts , ' Phil. Mag. , ' February , 1913 , p. 270 .
I In this connection , see Goldstein ( ' Ber .
Deut .
Chem. Ges .
, ' 1904 ) and Magnus ( ' Phys. Zeit .
, ' 1905 , vol. 6 , p. 12 ) , who showed that Pt and Ir at a white heat rapidly absorb oxygen .
Dr. G. W. C. Kaye and Mr. D. Ewen .
regarding the effect of pressure on the boiling point is available .
The values of the higher boiling points are largely due to Greenwood.* Some of the volatilisation temperatures quoted have been recently determined at the National Physical Laboratory .
Columns 2 and 3 reveal the marked effect of pressure on the boiling point ; and Column 4 shows the temperatures at which volatilisation has been detected , mostly at low pressures .
These temperatures are intended to imply appreciable volatilisation ; if the experiments were sufficiently prolonged , volatilisation could be detected in some cases at temperatures even lower than those given , as will be gathered from p. 58 .
Column 5 gives the corresponding melting points and is added for the sake of comparison .
Rectilinear Emission of Particles .
Evidence has recently been obtained of the emission of particles of metal at right angles to the surface of a heated metal , in much the same way , for example , as particles of metal are ejected from the surface of a cathode in a discharge tube .
In most cases , this straight line emission is obscured by general volatilisation ; but when the circumstances were favourable its existence has been detected .
Keboul and de Bollemontj* have recently shown that small strips of either copper or silver , when heated in an electric furnace at temperatures from 400't to 900 ' C. yield black deposits which closely follow the outline of the emitting metal .
Thus when the latter was cut in the shape of a cross , the deposit also was cruciform .
The deposits were received on a platinum screen , and proved to consist either of the emitting metal or its oxide .
In air at atmospheric pressure , 3 mm. was the greatest distance at which such deposits were obtained ; the best results were obtained at about 1 mm. distance .
In oxygen , the effect was enhanced ; in a vacuum , the deposit gained in sharpness of outline .
Curiously enough , in hydrogen , the edges of the strip seemed to be the only active regions , so that the sputtered image reproduced merely the outlines of the strip .
S The rate of deposition increased very considerably as the furnace was made hotter .
On repeating the experiment with a sample of copper which had already been used , the deposit was much less dense than that obtained on the * * * S * Greenwood , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1909 , A , vol. 82 , p. 396 ; 1910 , A , vol. 83 , p. 483 .
+ Beboul and de Bollemont , ' Journ. de Phys. , ' July , 1912 , 5 , vol. 2 , p. 559 .
f Below 400 ' no deposits were obtained .
S A somewhat similar edge-effect was obtained by one of us in connection with the sputtered deposit from an aluminium cathode in a discharge tube ( Kaye , ' Phys. Soc. Proc. , Feb. , 1913 , vol. 25 , p. 198 ) .
The Sublimation of Metals at Low Pressures .
61 first heating .
Other metals\#151 ; nickel , iron , and aluminium\#151 ; were tried , but without success .
Experimental .
The present authors , during the early part of last year , obtained somewhat similar results which are recounted in this paper .
Iridium.__In one experiment , with which Dr. Harker was associated* a strip of pure iridium ( S , fig. 1 ) was heated by the passage of a heavy alternating current of low voltage .
The strip was arranged , edge upwards , within a C Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
hollow metal cylinder of diameter about 18 mm. The gas was nitrogen and the pressure about 20 mm. At the end of the experiment two horizontal bands of deposit A and B were observed on the inner surface of the cylinder , each one facing a side of the iridium strip , and of roughly the same width .
The rest of the cylinder was not wholly free from deposit , but it reached a minimum at points C and D opposite the edges of the strip .
Copper.\#151 ; In a second experiment , a copper tube ( T , fig. 2 ) with a hole ( diameter 8 mm. ) in its side was heated from within by a strip of metal through which alternating heating current was passed .
As shown in fig. 2 , the strip was not in contact with the cylinder .
The pressure was about 1 mm. and the gas nitrogen .
After a few minutes the copper attained a visibly red heat ( 800 ' C. ) , and a black deposit rapidly formed some 4 cm .
away on an opal-glass plate ( P ) placed obliquely , as indicated in the figure .
The deposit approximated in shape to an elliptical ring .
This is to be ascribed to the sputtering action of the edge of the hole in the tube .
The outline of the sputtered ring was shortly afterwards largely obscured by general deposit from the body of the tube and the heating strip .
Fig. 3 gives a notion of the appearance of part of the elliptical band of deposit ; it has been strengthened slightly in the photograph ( see Plate 5 ) .
* See Harker and Kaye , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1913 , A , vol. 88 , p. 536 .
Dr. G. W. C. Kaye and Mr. D. Ewen .
Iron.\#151 ; In a further series of experiments , some interesting deposits have been obtained with iron .
Commercially pure Swedish wrought iron was used in the form of thin strips which were highly polished .
The arrangement of the apparatus is indicated in fig. 4 .
The iron strip A was mounted vertically and connected at its extremities to two stout copper leads , by which means the strip was heated electrically by direct current .
Parallel to , and at about 1 mm from , the polished surface of the iron was stretched a strip of platinum foil B , in the centre of which was a small hole about 3 mm. square .
A second piece of platinum foil C was welded on to B , and contained another similar hole so arranged that the two holes in B and C were opposite each other and about 5 mm. apart .
A third strip of platinum foil D was mounted opposite the hole in C and about 1 mm. away from C. Strips B and C were electrically insulated from the iron strip A , and the outermost strip D , which was intended to receive the deposit , was connected to the positive end of the iron " strip .
The whole was placed in a vessel which was highly exhausted , and the iron strip was then heated by passing through it a direct current of about 20 to 30 amperes at 50 to 100 volts .
The temperature of the iron was kept at about 950 ' C. for some 5 hours.* By this means , a dark brown deposit was obtained on the platinum strip D , and , as shown in the photograph ( fig. 5 ) , the deposit took the form of a well defined image of the square holes in the other pieces of foil .
The clearly defined edges of this shadow make it difficult to imagine that the method of transference of the material can be other than some kind of rectilinear propagation of the volatilised particles .
The slight distortion of the image is due in part to a want of alignment of the two holes in B and C , and partly to the shape of the hole in C. No deposit was found on the sides of B and C remote from the hot iron strip .
Big .
5 shows the black deposit on the side of B facing the iron * The temperature was measured by a hot-wire optical pyrometer .
Platinum Screen D Iron Strip A 1 2 3cm .
Fig. 4 .
The Sublimation of Metals at Low Pressures .
63 strip .
There was also some deposit on the corresponding face of C around the sides of the hole ; a feature which indicates that not all the particles are projected normally from the iron .
In some experiments , plate C was removed and only the one hole ( in B ) used ; the deposits in these cases were not quite so well defined .
The surface of the emitting iron strip , when examined under a fairly high power , shows regularly oriented etched pitting ( fig. 6 ) .
The method of heating by direct current seems to favour the development of these etched pits to an extraordinary degree .
As described later , specimens of iron were also heated in a tube furnace in vacuo to the same temperature as before , viz. , 950 ' C. In these cases , the etched pitting of the surface , although generally distinguishable , was not developed to anything like the same extent as in specimens heated under the same conditions by the passage of the heating current through the specimens themselves .
It would appear , therefore , that the electrical conditions which obtain in the latter case predispose the metal to disintegration , as evidenced by the etching effects.* It would be of interest to see if heating by the passage of an alternating current through a metal would also produce such marked pitting .
The frequent twinning , an example of which is shown in fig. 6 , is , of course , characteristic of the structure of iron at the temperature of the experiments .
The central and hottest portion of the iron strip , which was opposite the holes in the platinum strips , was afterwards found to be brown in colour .
The appearance suggested that a certain amount of oxidation had taken place in spite of the fairly high vacuum employed.f This is supported by the fact that on subsequently annealing the iron in hydrogen the brown colour disappeared and the iron reverted to its normal tint .
The deposit was found , when tested , to give a distinct iron reaction , thus proving that the shadow was due to the transference of particles from the iron .
The loss in weight of the iron specimen was too small to be detected by an ordinary chemical balance .
The adhesion of the deposits to the receiving strip of platinum was remarkable , vigorous polishing for some minutes being necessary for their removal .
Under the microscope , the surface of the platinum where the deposit was formed shows a reticular pattern resembling the structure obtained on polished and etched metallic surfaces .
* Fredenhagen ( ' Phys. Zeit .
, ' 1912 , vol. 13 , p. 539 ) found a parallel effect with the negative electrical discharge from a hot metal in vacuo .
The emission from a certain electrode , when the latter was heated in an electric furnace , was only 1 per cent , of that obtained on heating by direct current to the same temperature .
t The pressure was initially of the order of 0'004 mm. of mercury and during the course of the heating averaged about 0'035 mm. , the rise being accounted for by the evolution of gases from the heated iron .
Dr. G. W. C. Kaye and Mr. D. Ewen .
As the result of a number of experiments , it was found that the maximum range of the iron particles was about 1 cm .
in a good vacuum ; at higher pressures it would probably be less.* Deposits from iron were also obtained on non-metallic receiving surfaces , such as fused silica .
In order to examine more closely into the cause of this transference of material , some further experiments were carried out with iron , in which the arrangements were similar to those already described , but the heating was effected by an electric tube-furnace , wound with a spiral resistor of nichrome wire ; the iron specimen did not , therefore , in this case , carry any current .
The window in these experiments was a long slit parallel to and about 2 mm. from the strip ; only one window was employed .
As before , quite a sharp shadow of outline corresponding to the slit was obtained on a platinum screen , about 1 mm. distant from the slit .
This is shown in fig. 7 ; the illumination of the screen in the photograph causes the grey deposit to appear white on a dark ground .
With this arrangement , one hour 's heating produced only very faint indications of a deposit , whilst a clearly defined image was obtained from a run lasting three hours .
With direct-current heating , on the other hand , the rate of deposition was much more rapid , and in one experiment , 10 minutes sufficed to produce a fairly clear deposit ( see also p. 63 ) .
In the tube-furnace experiment the temperature was not quite uniform , so that both iron strip and platinum screen were a good deal hotter at one end than the other .
The deposit on the screen was found to be fainter at the hotter end ; this was probably due to the greater loss by evaporation from the hot end of the screen .
The deposit shown in fig. 7 did not possess the brown colour of the shadows obtained in the previous experiments , nor , as has already been remarked , did the surface of the iron show such characteristic etched pitting .
Thus , although more prominent deposits were obtained when there was slight oxidation , it would appear that the presence of oxygen\#151 ; at any rate , in quantity sufficient to cause visible oxidation\#151 ; is not essential to the process of transference .
Tungsten.\#151 ; Extensive deposits and corresponding shadow results were also obtained when tungsten was heated in vacuo to about 1800 ' C. ' Discussion .
From the foregoing results , and those obtained by Reboul and de Bollemont , it would appear that there are two main classes of vapour given out when a metal volatilises ; one kind , which is associated with * Cf .
Reboul and de Bollemont , above .
The Sublimation of Metals Low Pressures .
65 evaporation as usually understood by the term , the other , made up of particles of metal , which travel in straight lines from the surface of the metal , which they leave approximately at right angles , and which , as our experiments appear to show , have ( in the case of iron , at any rate ) a range of only a centimetre or so in vacuo .
Wliat may be the inherent cause of difference between these two kinds of particles we are not in a position to say at present ; we suggest that the " rectilinear " type consists of electrified particles of metal , while the ordinary vapour particles are electrically neutral .
It is well known that , if a liquid has its surface suddenly changed in area , a surplus charge of electricity makes its appearance , as , for example , in the splashing of water or mercury .
On the same grounds , the pitting of the heated surface , and the consequent alteration of area , would be expected to release a certain amount of electrification , which would , in favourable cases , accompany the liberated particles .
The repulsion of the charged particles at right angles to the surface of the heated metal would follow if the surface were also charged with like sign ; this , of course , is possible with a strip heated by direct current .
We have already remarked on the special efficacy of direct current in producing deposits .
The effect is not so easy to explain in the case of the tube-furnace and alternating-current experiments .
Reboul and de Bollemont suggest , in explanation of the phenomena , that the transference of the material is due to miniature eruptions caused by the explosive combination of occluded hydrogen and oxygen in the metal .
On this view , the effect would be expected to fatigue , and this is in accordance with their experiments ( p. 60 ) .
The explanation does not , however , seem to us convincing .
In our experiments with iron , the temperature did not exceed about 1000 ' C. , under which conditions we should expect that any electrified particles there might be would carry a positive charge ; and , in fact , Sir J. J. Thomson* showed some years ago that positively charged particles of metal were among the positive ions given off by platinum heated to moderate temperatures at low pressures .
It would be interesting to see if a difference could be detected in the intensity of the deposits obtained from either end of a strip of metal heated by direct current .
On the above hypothesis , the positive end of the strip might give an appreciably heavier deposit at such temperatures .
At higher temperatures than we have employed\#151 ; near and above the melting point of iron\#151 ; negative electricity predominates , and opposite results would accordingly be expected in such an experiment .
The effect of a ' magnetic field on the stream of particles would , of course , be a valuable * 'Conduction of Electricity through Gases , ' 1906 , p. 217 .
VOL. LXXXIX\#151 ; A. F Dr. G. W. C. Kaye and Mr. D. Ewen .
piece of evidence .
By such means , Owen and Halsall* find , however , that in a good vacuum , and over a wide range of temperatures all high enough to give negative ionisation , the thermionic current , in the case of Pt , Pd and Ir , is due almost entirely to electrons .
They conclude that the proportion of heavy and metallic negative ions is certainly less than 1 part in 2000 .
It should be remarked also that Eoberts , in the paper already referred to , did not find any evidence of particles which were electrified in the vapours of the platinum metals .
But , from his published account , we should gather that the fog-condensation chamber , by which he tested the point , was probably too remote from the heated metal to detect such short-range particles as we have described .
The influence of traces of oxygen in producing a kind of " weathering " of the surface of the metal is one on which stress has been laid by a number of experimenters , and it is reasonable to suppose that some such action would augment the disintegration to a marked degree with some metals .
It is significant that most workers are agreed that the presence of oxygen accentuates the positive electrical emission from hot metals ; in such cases we may regard the charged particles as the direct outcome of the energy of reaction between the metal and the gas .
We have elsewhere noted Eoberts ' conclusions as to the part played by oxygen in the volatilisation of the platinum metals , and it is a matter for further investigation to ascertain the extent of the effect with the baser 'metals .
Some evidence is afforded by the experiments on p. 64 .
f As an alternative to the charged-particle hypothesis it is not impossible that the distinction between the " rectilinear " particles and the ordinary particles is one chiefly of size .
We should expect that very small emitted particles of metal\#151 ; with dimensions not far from molecular\#151 ; would suffer appreciable scattering by the gas molecules and lose very speedily their original direction of projection .
But larger particles , projected with the same velocity , would travel farther before being similarly disturbed .
Possibly the range of the projected particles under the same temperature conditions varies considerably from metal to metal ; and this may account for the lack of success which attended Eeboul and de Bollemont 's efforts to obtain deposits with metals other than copper and silver at atmospheric pressure .
It may not be too far from the purpose of this paper to consider the possible source of such large particles .
Dr. Eosenhain and one of usj have * ' Phil. Mag. , ' May , 1913 , vol. 25 , p. 735 .
+ See also Humfrey , 'Iron and Steel Inst. Jonrn .
, ' 1912 , Carnegie Memoirs .
I " Intercrystalline Cohesion in Metals , " Rosenhain and Ewen , 'Inst .
Metals Journ , , Sept. , 1912 , Kaye and , Roy .
Soc. ProeA , 89 , Plate 5 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Copper Deposit .
B and C D Fig. 5.\#151 ; Photograph of Hole and Iron Deposit cast by it .
In the above figure , plate C is behind plate B. Full size .
Fig. G. Pitted Surface of Iron Str ip , x 500 diameters .
The Sublimation of Metals at Low Pressures .
put forward a theory as to the mechanism by which evaporation takes place from crystalline metals .
The view was adopted , from the observations of the behaviour of a number of metals in vacuo , that the volatilised metal consists initially of the intercrystalline amorphous material which cements together the crystal faces .
This amorphous cement is more volatile than the crystals themselves , and accordingly grooves or channels are formed along the crystal boundaries of metals subjected to prolonged heating in vacuo .
The increased liability to erosion along the sides of these channels may perhaps be the cause , directly or indirectly , of particles larger than those from the body of the crystals .
With polished specimens the channels are visible under the microscope ; the process is known as vacuum etching .
If there is any real analogy between the sputtering from a cathode in a low-pressure discharge tube , and thermal sputtering such as we have described , it may be that cathodic sputtering carried out under suitable conditions would similarly lead to the formation of patterns corresponding to the structure of the metal .
So far as evaporation from the crystals themselves is concerned , we may usefully employ the conception of a " crystal unit " adopted by some metallo-graphists .
The term implies a small ordered stable aggregate of molecules which serves as a brick from which to build up the crystal structure .
We may imagine that either through the application of heat or by chemical combination the stability of a surface unit is endangered by reason of the loss of individual outlying molecules .
The whole unit disintegrates and conies away piecemeal from the crystal in particles , may be , of appreciable size , and at the same time a pit is commenced in the crystal surface .
We should not be unreasonable in expecting that such particles coming from a stable crystal system would be electrically charged , in contradistinction to those coming from an unordered amorphous medium .
The results described in this paper are to be regarded as of a preliminary character ; it will be apparent that there is scope for further work in a number of directions .

