254 Spectroscopic Observations on the Active of Nitrogen.\#151 ; Y.# By the Hon. B. J. Strutt , F.R.S. ( Received January 3 , 1917 .
) [ Plate 1 .
] S 1 .
Introduction .
The spectrum of the nitrogen afterglow , as ordinarily obtained , !
consists of three groups of bands , which we designated as the \#171 ; , / 3 , and 7 groups .
The a-group is in the visual region , and consists of a selection of the first positive bands of nitrogen .
The / 3-group is chiefly in the ultra-violet , but extends into the violet .
It can be observed in the discharge , but is much better developed in the afterglow .
The 7-group is wholly in the ultra-violet , and identical with Deslandres ' third positive nitrogen group .
I have not much to add to the results of the former paper as regards the measurement and classification of these various groups of bands .
The circumstances under which they appear have , however , been reinvestigated , and the conclusions of the earlier paper modified in some important respects .
S 2 .
01-Group of Bands .
In the earlier investigation it was found that the intensity of four groups of bands of the first positive group was extraordinarily enhanced as compared with their ordinary intensity in the discharge .
The remaining bands came out only faintly , though some of them are quite perceptible in the photograph reproduced ( p. 388 ) , particularly 6394'45 , 6468-53 , 6544-81 , and 6623-52 .
There was some doubt whether these faint bands really form part of the afterglow spectrum at all .
There are two causes of uncertainty .
First , it is not easy , without special precautions , to be certain of avoiding stray electric discharges in the afterglow chamber , which might bring in these faint bands .
Secondly , though the light of the generating discharge cannot enter the spectroscope slit directly , a part of it may enter by stray reflection from the inside glass walls of the apparatus . .
As the presence or complete absence of these bands in the true afterglow * I , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 85 , p. 377 ( 1911 ) ; II , vol. 86 , p. 105 ( 1911 ) ; III , ibid. , vol. 89 , p. 187 ( 1913 ) ; IV , ibid. , vol. 91 , p. 120 ( 1915 ) .
t See Fowler and Strutt , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 85 , p. 189 , and earlier literature then cited .
The Active Modification of Nitrogen .
spectrum seems likely to be an important point , when the subject becomes ripe for theoretical treatment , special experiments have been made to attain certainty .
To secure perfect freedom from electric discharges in the observation tube , the discharge tube , with induction coil , jar , and spark-gap , were all enclosed in an earthed metal box , the observation tube being outside .
Other additional precautions were taken as described previously.* These measures were quite successful .
There was no tendency to stray discharge in the observation tube .
The tests applied to prove this will be mentioned later .
The faint group of bands in the region of A 6500 still remained , without perceptible diminution of intensity .
They were therefore certainly not to be attributed to the light of stray discharges in the observation vessel .
To test whether they were due to stray light from the generating discharge , all light passing through the glass walls of the discharge vessel was cut off by suitable screens .
The glowing gas was passed from the discharge vessel to the observation vessel by a cranked glass tube , with four rectangular bends constructed as shown ( fig. 1 ) , so as to minimise internal reflection .
The cranked tube was wound over with a strip of opaque black cloth ( not shown ) .
The electrical screening precautions were still used .
Discharge Vessel The arrows indicate direction of the stream of glowing gas .
Fig. 1 .
Under these conditions , the bands in the region X 6500 were still visible , and their intensity relative to the main bright bands of the afterglow spectrum was not less than when the cranked tube was dispensed with , * 1 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 87 , p. 183 ( 1912 ) .
256 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Spectroscopic Observations on though the latter must have diminished stray light from the discharge many times .
It is clear that these bands truly form part of the afterglow spectrum .
S 3 .
The ft and y Groups in the Afterglow .
These groups are quite distinct from one another in their numerical relations , but in the afterglow , in most cases , though not in all , they appear together in a nearly constant relative intensity .
It is true that if the spectrum is faint , some of the more intense / 3-bands come out in the absence of the y-group , but this is only a photographic phenomenon , and not a true separation of the two groups .
After the investigations on the action of catalysts in production of active nitrogen , * it appeared desirable to re-examine the question of the origin of the ft and y groups .
For the view had been expressed that these groups were both due , in some way , to oxides of nitrogen.f I had come to the conclusion ( loc. cit. ) that a bright visual afterglow ( a-group of bands ) always required the presence of traces of some other substance with the nitrogen in the discharge .
Starting with pure nitrogen , we may enhance the a-group of bands by introducing traces of oxygen , or some substance such as carbon dioxide which will yield oxygen by decomposition in the discharge ; or we may enhance them by introducing traces of hydrocarbons , or hydrogen sulphide , which do not yield oxygen .
It was found that those admixtures which do yield oxygen brightened up the ft and y groups along with , the visual afterglow ( a-group ) ; while the other class of admixtures brightened up the visual afterglow without brightening up the ft and y groups .
In carrying out these experiments , the same methods have been used as were employed in determining the action of the various catalysts .
The nitrogen was purified by prolonged heating with sodium at 300 ' C. , so that it gave practically no afterglow .
The various small admixtures were fed in through a capillary tube to the amount of about part .
The spectra were photographed under precisely comparable conditions before and after adding the admixture .
, * These experiments clearly showed that the ft and y groups of bands are not essentially bound up with the a-group ; their intensity relative to the latter is greater when a substance capable of yielding oxygen is present in the nitrogen before it passes through the discharge .
If therefore nitrogen prepared in any particular way shows these bands in the afterglow , there is reason to infer the presence of oxygen compounds in * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 91 , p. 303 ( 1915 ) .
t E. P. Lewis , ' Phil. Mag. , ' June , 1913 .
the Active Modification Nitrogen .
257 it .
I had already come to the conclusion that nitrogen prepared by the method which I have generally used , namely , prolonged standing over moist phosphorus , and drying with phosphorus pentoxide , must be admitted to contain carbon dioxide .
With the ready spectroscopic test for oxygen compounds , I studied to eliminate them from the gas thus produced .
It was found that the ft and y bands persisted in the phosphorus nitrogen when bubbled through very strong alkali , containing pyrogallol , previous to drying .
Attention was then turned to the adequacy of the drying , and it was found that the large tube of phosphorus pentoxide employed , measuring 35 x 4 cm .
, was insufficient .
Additional drying tubes diminished the intensity of the ft and y bands , until , with many long tightly packed tubes containing about 1*5 kgrm .
of phosphorus pentoxide altogether , the ft and y groups were very inconspicuous on the photographs unless long exposure was given .
Although the ft and y groups had been got rid of , it was now found that the violet cyanogen groups of bands were fairly strong .
No doubt the carbon contamination responsible for them had been present before , but the ft and y bands had in some way monopolised the energy available for excitation .
To reduce the cyanogen bands the apparatus was modified .
All indiarubber was dispensed with ; glass stoppers , cemented in with sealing-wax , were used on the gas holders , and all other joints were fused together .
The phosphorus was placed in a perforated zinc bucket instead of a muslin bag .
The gas was bubbled through a column of strong sulphuric acid 10 inches deep , and was then passed through a tube of soda lime 3 cm .
diameter and 1 metre long to the phosphorus pentoxide tubes .
The rate of flow was 9 litres per hour , and was controlled by a tightly rammed plug of phosphorus pentoxide at the end of the drying tubes , which was found in practice to keep the flow into a vacuum very constant from day to day over many weeks .
Under these conditions , with new freshly cut phosphorus , the cyanogen spectrum was strong at first , but after a few refillings of the gas holder ( it was refilled daily and allowed to stand overnight ) , the cyanogen bands became less conspicuous .
They were never got rid of , and the carbon is , no doubt , contained in the phosphorus itself .
In setting up a fresh apparatus , I should attempt to remove it by means of chromic acid .
Plate 1 , No. 1 , shows the spectrum of the afterglow from gas thus treated .
The plates used were not sensitive to green or yellow , thus the a-bands ( visual afterglow ) are not seen on this or any of the succeeding photographs .
The strongest line in the spectrum , strangely enough , is the mercury line at 2536 .
There was no mercury visibly present in the 258 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Spectroscopic Observations on apparatus or in the Gaede molecular pump used with it .
A small mercury pressure gauge had , indeed , been previously connected to it , but this had been removed , and large volumes of nitrogen ( perhaps 50 litres ) passed through the system of tubes before the photograph was taken .
The sensitiveness of this test for mercury seems to be extraordinary .
Besides the mercury line the strongest cyanogen band at 3883 is fairly conspicuous , and several of the stronger bands of the / 3-group are faintly seen .
The aggregate intensity of these latter , faint though they are , perhaps entitles them still to be considered the most important feature of this spectrum , outside the visual region . .
It is believed that further drying would be needed to eliminate the ft and y groups entirely ; but the system of drying tubes could hardly be increased to any considerable multiple of its present dimensions , already formidable .
I have never succeeded in purifying a sample of nitrogen that had been freed from oxygen in the wet way to the point where the visual yellow afterglow ( a-bands ) fails , nor so far as I know has anyone else done so .
For this it is still necessary to have recourse to heated sodium or some such method .
But the phosphorus nitrogen , purified as described , has served well for investigating the origin of the ft and y groups .
S 4 .
Controlled Development of ft and y Bands .
Having thus at disposal a ready means of preparing nitrogen which gave the ft and y groups very faintly , I proceeded to observe the effects of introducing various oxygen-containing gases into the afterglow , after the gas had passed through the discharge tube and not sooner .
The observations made , though quite sharp and distinct , are at present very difficult to co-ordinate fully .
In general , the effect of introducing oxygen or its compounds into the afterglow is to develop the ft and y groups of bands .
In some cases this development is very strong ; in no case have I seen it produced by introduction of gases which do not contain oxygen .
Some of the admixtures produce special phenomena requiring description , and these will be detailed in the form of a catalogue .
For the admission of the gases , it was found convenient to use a screw-down gunmetal stopcock ( one of those supplied as a fine adjustment valve for oxygen cylinders ) , drawing the gas towards the point of the regulating cone , so as not to put suction on to the gland .
Such a valve admits of far more definite and stable regulation than a glass stopcock , with the necessary semifluid lubricant .
The rate of admission was measured by a capillary tube with a manometer connected across its ends .
The flow of nitrogen was in all cases the Active Modification of Nitrogen .
9 litres per hour .
The amount of other gas fed into it after it had left the discharge tube will be stated in connection with each experiment .
Oxygen.__From earlier observations* it was believed that oxygen merely destroyed the a-group luminosity , without the substitution of any other spectrum .
This belief is now recognised to have been mistaken .
The spectrum generated escaped observation partly because it was already initially present owing to impurities in the nitrogen used , but mainly because it is situated almost entirely in the ultra-violet , and is therefore difficult to recognise visually .
Oxygen , or more conveniently air , gives , in fact , the ft and 7 groups when introduced into the afterglow .
Spectrum No. 2 , Plate 1 , shows this .
The spectra Nos. 1 and 2 are strictly comparable , being taken on the same plate , and with the same exposure , all adjustments undisturbed , except that for No. 2 air was admitted to the afterglow at 570 c.c. per hour , the nitrogen flow being as usual , 9 litres per hour .
The positions of the strongest ft and 7 bands are indicated in the strips below the series of photographed spectra .
It will be seen how enormously these groups , barely visible before , are now enhanced .
It was important to make sure that stray discharges were not occurring through the mixed gases in the observation vessel , since these would give rise to oxides of nitrogen .
The greatest care was taken to make sure of this by working at a fairly high pressure ( 1 cm .
of mercury ) and by connecting to earth the electrode of the discharge tube nearest the observation tube .
The test of success is for the observer to place his hand on the observation tube , and at the same time to watch the luminous effects , preferably through a blue glass .
If stray discharge is present , the luminosity will , without fail , be seen to move , owing to changed distribution of electrostatic capacity .
The blue glass gives an advantage , since stray discharges , if present , yield much more blue light than does the nitrogen afterglow .
Further , if stray discharge were present , it would bring in the second positive series of bands .
These , however , were absent from the photographed spectra .
It was also important to establish that the appearance of the ft and 7 bands in these experiments was not conditioned by diffusion of oxygen back into the discharge tube against the gas stream .
Photograph No. 9 , Plate 1 , shows a tube through which active nitrogen is flowing .
It was taken on a colour-sensitive plate through a yellow screen , which cut off all blue light , and , therefore , transmitted the a-group of bands only .
Air was flowing in through the side entrance indicated , but , as will be observed , its entry does * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc./ A , vol. 85 , p. 224 ( 1911 ) .
VOL. XCIII.\#151 ; A. X 260 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Spectroscopic Observations on not produce any sudden change in tire luminous effects .
This photograph fairly represents the visual appearance .
Introduction of air makes the- yellow glow die away more quickly but does not introduce any sudden or obvious change in its visual character .
Photograph No. 10 ( Plate 1 ) was taken under exactly the same conditions as No. 9 , except that a blue uviol glass screen was substituted for the yellow screen , also an ordinary plate for the colour-sensitive one .
The actinic effect is now mainly due to the / 3-group ( the 7-group hardly penetrates glass lenses ) and it is very clear that this spectrum originates at the place where the air tributary enters , extending only downstream .
Visual examination through blue glass shows these effects as clearly as the photograph does .
The last members of the / 3-group , at wave-lengths 4029 , 4297 , 4590 , 4930 , * though of small intensity , are within the visual region , and ' can be observed if the visually strong a-group is cut out with a blue glass .
It is necessary , however , to have the nitrogen used as free as possible from hydrocarbon contamination ; for if the violet cyanogen group is strongly present , it will be quenched by admission of air , and the result will be to diminish rather than increase the light seen through a blue glass .
It is also possible to recognise the bluish tinge of the afterglow caused by the introduction of air , even without a blue glass , but this is only seen some distance downstream , when the a-group intensity has diminished considerably .
The effect is not very conspicuous unless specially looked for , and escape notice in the earlier observations , where much more striking phenomena were being discovered daily .
Comparative spectrograms were taken , each with 5 minutes ' exposure , with increasing admissions of air , maintaining the nitrogen flow and the discharge conditions constant .
The afterglow tube was presented end-on to the slit , and it was long enough for the glow to die away to a comparatively small intensity before the gas emerged .
It was found that , under the experimental conditions , the maximum effect was obtained with admission of about 70 e.c. of air per hour .
Increasing the admission did not produce much effect on the photographic intensity until more than 570 c.c. was admitted .
After this , the ft and 7 intensities were diminished .
There was , however , no distinct variation in the relative intensities of these two groups throughout the experiments with air .
Carbon Dioxide.\#151 ; This gas , like oxygen , brings in the ft and 7 groups very strongly .
See No. 3 , Plate 1 , which was taken with an influx of 1100 c.c. of carbon dioxide per hour , with the nitrogen flow and other conditions as before .
It will be noticed by a careful comparison of Nos. 2 and 3 that the / 3-group * These two latter were not included in the earlier description of the spectra .
the Active Modification of Nitrogen .
261 is stronger relative to the 7-group with carbon dioxide than with air .
All the numerous photographs taken at different times with carbon dioxide consistently show the same effect , so as to leave no doubt of its being definitely characteristic of this gas .
The blue glow caused by introduction of carbon dioxide into the afterglow can be detected visually by the same methods as with air .
The maximum effect was reached by admitting 570 c.c. of carbon dioxide per hour , but much larger quantities could be added without diminishing the / 3 and 7 intensity again .
The largest admission tried was 2280 c.c. per hour , which still gave about the same effect .
Carbon Monoxide ( see Plate 1 , No. 4).\#151 ; This gas gave complex effects , requiring careful description .
In the first place , it gave a visual spectrum with bands in the green , which , as obtained hitherto , is too faint for satisfactory study , and has not been identified .
A more resolute attack on this problem would be desirable , but attention has been claimed by other questions which seemed more urgent .
Secondly , the violet bands of cyanogen were excited , so that the small intensity of these bands already present , and due to impurity in the nitrogen , was notably increased .
It is difficult to be absolutely certain that the strengthening of these bands is not due to impurity in the carbon monoxide , for a very small quantity of any hydrocarbon brings them in strongly .
But the cyanogen-intensity did not seem to vary appreciably whether the carbon moxoxide was prepared from oxalic or from formic acid .
Again , 1 litre of the gas from formic acid was liquefied by liquid air boiling under reduced pressure , and allowed to distil away fractionally into the observation tube ; but I was unable to detect any variation in the cyanogen-intensity during the course of the distillation , which was continued till the stock of liquid carbon monoxide was exhausted .
No formation of cyanogen compounds was chemically detectable .
The mixed gases from the observation tube were led through a cooled tube , which was subsequently washed with caustic potash solution , but no cyanide could be detected in the latter ; though , if a hydrocarbon had been substituted for carbon monoxide , the Prussian blue reaction would have been very strong .
But , to return to the spectra associated with carbon monoxide , there was , thirdly , the 7-group strong , with the / 3-group relatively very weak .
This effect is quite exceptional and peculiar to carbon monoxide .
Comparative photographs were taken as before , each with 5 minutes ' exposure , and increasing influx of carbon monoxide .
The / 3-group and the 262 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Spectroscopic Observations on cyanogen group were about at their maximum over a range of 140 to 570 c.c. per hour , the 7-group from 280 to upwards of 2200 c.c. per hour. .
It is therefore with large admissions that the great relative intensity of the 7-group is most conspicuous .
This suggests that excess of carbon monoxide above what is required for developing the spectra in some way damps out the ,3-group , without damping out the 7-group to the same extent .
The photograph reproduced ( Plate 1 , No. 4 ) was taken with admission of 1140 c.c. of carbon monoxide per hour .
It was of interest to try whether a mixture of ethylene and air , which , like carbon monoxide , would give the ft and 7 groups along with the violet cyanogen bands , would show the same weakness of the ft relative to the 7 group .
Various mixtures were admitted at various rates , but nothing of the kind was observed ( see Plate 1 , No. 5 ) .
This photograph was taken with admission of 70 c.c. per hour of a mixture of one part ethylene to five parts air .
Nitric Oxide.\#151 ; The effects of this gas also are complicated .
They have been partly described in earlier communications , but there are some corrections to be made , and it will be convenient to begin afresh .
Small quantities of nitric oxide bring in the ft and 7 groups , the relative intensities are the same as with oxygen , and the maximum intensity obtainable is also about the same , but a smaller amount of nitric oxide will develop it ( see Plate 1 , No. 6 ) .
The influx ranged from 21 to 53 c.c. per hour for maximum intensity .
A larger amount of nitric oxide diminishes the intensity of the ft and 7 groups .
Development of the ft and 7 groups by nitric oxide is accompanied by a marked quenching of the a-group , so that the blue colour is conspicuous under suitable conditions , even without the help of a blue glass .
This effect is much more marked with nitric oxide than with air .
When the nitric oxide influx is increased enough to diminish the intensity of the ft and 7 groups considerably , a sudden and apparently discontinuous change conies over the spectrum .
This occurred under the actual conditions at 200 c.c. nitric oxide per hour .
The ft and 7 groups disappear , and a continuous spectrum , visually of characteristic greenish-yellow colour , is substituted ( see Plate 1 , No. 8 ) .
This continuous spectrum will be seen to extend to about 4300 on the violet side .
Its extent on the other side is determined by the limit of plate sensitiveness .
The experiment of fig. 2 illustrates further this very peculiar behaviour of nitric oxide .
The tube is arranged so that the nitric oxide supply can diffuse back a short distance against the oncoming stream of active nitrogen .
At the same time , by supplying the nitric oxide through a concentric inside the Active Modification of Nitrogen .
263 tube , lateral disturbance is avoided , and the llow is nearly one-dimensional .
Proceeding from left to right , the concentration of nitric oxide relative to active nitrogen increases progressively .
TO PUMP ACTIVE ~ ( VITROCrEN A/ / TfifJC OX/ O If the tube is viewed without any coloured screen , the region a is seen filled with orange glow , due to the a-group of bands , but at the right of this region the orange glow fades off , and is replaced by a fringe of violet .
This is due to the less refrangible members of the / 3-group , and is indicated in the figure by a change of shading .
Then follows a nearly dark interval , b , and after this the region c9 showing greenish afterglow with continuous spectrum .
If a blue glass is used to cut out the a-group of bands , then the intensity distribution of ( blue-violet ) light is approximately as represented by the curve d. The effect of the nitric oxide can be detected much further up stream than without the blue glass .
The left-hand hump of the curve , of course , shows blue-violet light , due to the less refrangible ^8-bands , and the right-hand one blue-violet light of the continuous spectrum .
No. 11 , Plate 1 , shows the spectrum of a tube of this kind , provided with a quartz window .
The slit was a long one , and was placed as close up as possible , with its length parallel to the axis of the tube .
The concentration of nitric oxide increases from below upwards .
The extinction of the / 3 and 7 groups , and the replacement by the short continuous spectrum , is clearly seen .
In addition to the above cases , others have been investigated , but less thoroughly , and without quantitative observations on the rate of admission .
Nitrogen peroxide was prepared by liquefying the gas from heated lead nitrate .
Vapour was taken off from the liquid straight into the apparatus , and , though it perhaps contained a trace of nitric oxide initially , this would pass off in the early stages of the distillation , leaving pure peroxide in the later stages .
The later fractions gave , however , exactly the same results as the earlier ones .
These results were exactly similar in general character to those above recorded for nitric oxide , but the luminosities were much fainter .
All the phenomena recorded in connection with fig. 2 were reproduced .
264 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Spectroscopic Observations on Nitrous Oxide.\#151 ; The commercial compressed gas was used .
It gave the / 3 and 7 groups , but no trace of the greenish glow with continuous spectrum obtained with large admissions of nitric oxide .
The / 3 and 7 bands were also obtained by admitting water vapour from a small water bulb with stopcock sealed on to the apparatus .
S 5 .
Flame Spectra of Oxides of Nitrogen .
These were examined for comparison with the afterglow spectra .
An Ordinary small injector blowpipe , intended for oxygen and coal gas , was fed with nitric oxide and coal gas .
The flame showed visually the greenish luminosity with continuous spectrum , which is observed when much nitric oxide is introduced into the afterglow .
The colour of this light is very characteristic , and affords convincing evidence of its identity in the two cases .
The photographed spectrum of the blowpipe flame showed the 7-group of bands strongly , without any trace of the / 3-group .
The flame then produces two of the three spectra associated with nitric oxide in the afterglow , but not the remaining one .
One of the photographs is reproduced in Plate 1 , No. 7 .
It shows , of course , the water vapour bands in addition to the bands introduced by nitric oxide .
Nitrous oxide with coal gas , in the same blowpipe , also gave the greenish continuous spectrum , and the 7-group without the / 3-group .
But neither of the former was nearly so intense as with nitric oxide .
With air and coal gas neither of the spectra in question was observed .
With oxygen and coal gas something may be seen of the greenish colour round the tip of the flame , but it is known that oxidation of nitrogen occurs in the oxy-coal-gas flame , so that this observation throws no further light on the origin of the greenish continuous spectrum .
The fine photograph of the oxy-hydrogen flame spectrum made by Living and Dewar shows nothing of the / 3 or 7 groups .
The / 3-group of bands was not obtained from flames fed with oxides of nitrogen , even when the 7-group was very heavy from long exposure of the plate .
Reis* provisionally attributes two bands at A , 268 and A , 256 , which he observed in the flame of cyanogen burning in oxygen , to the / 3-group .
I find it difficult or impossible to accept this conclusion , for the bands in question are very inconspicuous members of the / 3-group , and it is contrary to all probability that they would be detected in preference to many much * ' Zeit .
Phys. Cheni .
, ' vol. 88 , p. 567 ( 1914 ) .
the Active Modification of Nitrogen .
stronger bands of this group .
Moreover , Prof. Fowler has kindly examined a very excellent photograph of the flame of cyanogen burning in oxygen , which was taken in his laboratory , and finds no trace of these bands .
S 6 .
Origin of ( 3 and 7 Groups .
Since these groups are only obtained in the afterglow by adding oxygen -containing admixture , it would seem natural to attribute them to oxides of nitrogen formed .
Again , if we compare the least amount of oxygen required in various forms to produce the same ( maximum ) intensity , we find approximately Nitric oxide ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-76 Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... PO Carbon dioxide ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
40 Thus , oxygen as nitric oxide goes further than as free oxygen and much further than as carbon dioxide .
Again , the 7-group is developed in a blowpipe flame fed with nitric oxide but not in one fed with oxygen .
In spite of the apparent force of these arguments , 1 cannot definitely attribute the bands to nitric oxide , or any other oxide of nitrogen , for J have been unable to prove that the necessary oxidation occurs when oxygen is fed into active nitrogen .
To get some notion of how much oxidation is to be expected with the experimental arrangement used , suppose enough or more than enough oxygen to be fed into the active nitrogen stream to get the best spectroscopic effect .
Then , to equal this effect , we should have to admit at least 21 c.c. of nitric oxide per hour instead of the oxygen .
If the action of oxygen is in the actual formation of nitric oxide , we must look for some such quantity as 21 c.c. per hour to be formed .
- / v . .
The experiments made have proved clearly that the nitric oxide formed ( if any ) is less than 1 c.c. per hour .
The gas stream on its way to the pump was passed through a condenser tube , cooled in liquid air .
This could be detached by loosening a ground joint and the contents tested with Gfriess ' reagent .
Many tests were made with and without oxygen admitted to the afterglow .
In either case there was generally some very slight reaction , indicating the presence of a trace of oxides of nitrogen .
The amount of reaction was variable , but there was no indication that it was more when oxygen was admitted to the afterglow than when it was not .
The origin of this slight reaction is presumably in some remaining traces of oxygen compounds present Hon. R J. Strutt .
Spectroscopic Observations on along with nitrogen in the discharge tube , and giving rise to oxidation .
It must be remembered that at every test atmospheric pressure has to be admitted , in order to detach the cooled condenser , thus the uniform regime is necessarily disturbed .
Comparative experiments were made , introducing nitric oxide intentionally into the gas stream .
The nitric oxide was diluted with nitrogen , to avoid dealing with an inconveniently small influx .
No discharge was passed during these comparative tests , but the gas stream was as usual .
A very strong reaction was obtained when the rate of admission was as much as 21 c.c. nitric oxide per hour .
To reduce the reaction to what was obtained in the actual tests , the rate had to be reduced below 1 c.c. per hour .
These experiments prove , therefore , that oxidation of nitrogen does not occur when oxygen is admitted to the afterglow or , if it does , at all events not to a sufficient extent to allow us to attribute the 0 and 7 emission to nitric oxide .
The same will apply to the higher oxides of nitrogen .
These are formed at once by the action of active nitrogen on nitric oxide.* Thus , in spite of the many new data obtained , it is not possible to make any distinct pronouncement as to what chemically is the vibrating system which gives rise to the 0 and 7 groups .
It can only be stated that both oxygen and nitrogen must be present .
This unsatisfactory kind of result is by no means unexampled in spectroscopy .
For instance , the " magnesium hydride " spectrum requires both magnesium and hydrogen for its production .
Yet no chemical compound responsible for it has ever been proved to exist .
S 7 .
Summary ( a Selection only of the Facts Established ) .
( 1 ) The faint red bands 6394*45 , 6468*53 , 6544*81 , and 6623*52 , belonging to the first positive group , truly belong to the afterglow spectrum of nitrogen .
( 2 ) The second positive group is entirely absent from the afterglow spectrum .
( 3 ) The 0 and 7 groups only appear when oxygen-containing gases are introduced into the afterglow , or are originally present in the nitrogen used .
( 4 ) Using nitrogen that only gives the 0 and 7 bands very faintly , it is found that oxygen or nitric oxide added to the afterglow bring in the 0 and 7 bands with a certain relative intensity , which may be called the standard .
Carbon dioxide gives greater relative intensity to the / 3-bands , and carbon monoxide to the 7-bands .
* \lt ; Rov .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 86 , p. 58 ( 1911 ) .
Strutt .
The Active Modification of Nitrogen .
( 5 ) If nitric oxide or nitrogen peroxide is introduced in sufficient quantity into the afterglow , the ft and 7 groups disappear , and a visually greenish continuous spectrum , not extending into the ultra-violet , is substituted .
Nothing like this is observed with the other oxygen-containing gases .
( 6 ) Nitric oxide in a blowpipe flame gives this same greenish continuous band , together with the 7 , but not the J3 , group .
( 7 ) Chemical tests show that , when oxygen is introduced into the afterglow , there is no detectable oxidation of nitrogen , and certainly not nearly enough to account for the / 3 and 7 bands , on the view that these are due to nitric oxide generated .
No definite conclusion is reached as to the origin of the ft and 7 groups , except that they require the presence of both nitrogen and oxygen .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
1 .
Spectrum of nitrogen afterglow .
The nitrogen purified with phosphorus , and elaborately dried .
Shows chiefly mercury from the manometer , and cyanogen hands .
/ 3 and y bands faint .
2 .
Effect of adding air to same afterglow , after the gas has been through discharge .
/ 3 and y groups very much enhanced .
3 .
Effect of adding carbon dioxide to afterglow of No. 1 .
Note that the / 3-bands are more intense relative to y-bands than in No. 2 .
4 .
Carbon monoxide added to afterglow of No. 1 .
Note that the / 3-bands are here much less intense relative to the y-bands .
The cyanogen bands , particularly that at 388 , are strongly brought in .
5 .
A mixture of ethylene and oxygen brought into the afterglow .
This also shows / 3 and y and cyanogen bands , like carbon monoxide , but the / 3-bands are not faint in this case .
( Cf .
No. 4 .
) 6 .
Small quantity of nitric oxide brought into afterglow .
/ 3 and y bands as with air .
7 .
Nitric oxide in blowpipe flame .
Note y-group without / 3-group .
Water vapour bands also conspicuous .
8 .
Large amount of nitric oxide introduced into afterglow , producing continuous band in less refrangible part of spectrum .
Note contrast with No. 6 .
9 .
Direct photograph through yellow screen of afterglow tube , with small amount of oxygen admitted in the middle of it .
10 .
Photograph of same , through blue screen , shows the great increase of violet and ultra-violet light due to development of / 3 and y groups , where the oxygen enters .
11 .
Spectrum photograph , showing the effect of increasing concentration of nitric oxide in the afterglow .
VOL. XCIII.\#151 ; A. Y

