26 Mr. T. Preston .
On the Modifications of the Spectra of Iron " On the Modifications of the Spectra of Iron and other | Substances radiating in a strong Magnetic Field .
" By ] Thomas Preston , M.A. Communicated by Professor Geo. I Francis FitzGerald , F.R.S. Received January 11 , ___________ .
i Read January 20 , 1898 .
Soon after Professor Zeeman announced his important discovery that the spectral lines become sensibly'altered in appearance and con- .
stitution when the source of light is placed in a strong magnetic field . !
I determined to examine if the spectra of different substances are equally or similarly affected , and also if the various lines in the 1 spectrum of a single substance are equally or differently affected by j the action of the magnetic field .
The investigation of these matters I was undertaken also with the ulterior object of determining if the 3 phenomenon , for the discovery of which we have to thank Professor 1 Zeeman , could be made to afford any new information , concerning j the corresponding sets of lines in homologous spectra or in the j spectra of substances belonging to the same group of chemical elements in fact , to determine if any new information could be i gleaned concerning those atomic or molecular vibrations which give | rise to the light emitted by incandescent matter , and thence to approach more closely to a knowledge of the ultimate constitution of ] atomic and molecular structures .
For the purpose of this inquiry I availed myself gladly of the 1 opportunity afforded me of using the excellent Rowland 's concave i grating mounted in the physical laboratory of the Royal University | of Ireland .
This instrument is of the usual type , having a radius of 1 21 5 feet , and ruled with about 14,438 lines to the inch .
It is fitted j with a camera box which takes a photographic plate 20 inches long and | $ inches broad , so that a length of the spectrum equal to 19 inches I can be photographed at a single exposure .
As a consequence I nafcma lie decided to study the effect of the magnetic field on the j spectra by photography , rather than by eye observation , for the j atter , esides being applicable to the visible part alone , is more * liable to lend itself to the personal bias or the previously formed opinions o t e observer .
The photographic plate , on the other an , oes not lend itself to the imagination of the observer , but gives a ai .
a record of the phenomena as they actually exist in e image ocussed upon it ; besides it enables one to compare the effects produced on a large number of lines under identical circumstances , a point of great importance . !
n the case of a phenomenon which exhibits itself as a very small e ec , an one w ich it is difficult to obtain and observe , it is natural and other Substances radiating a strong Magnetic Field .
that some doubt should exist at first as to what it is that actually is presented to the observer ; and that discrepancies should occur in tho statements of different observers regarding the phenomenon now under consideration is not surprising .
Thus while Zeeman distinctly states that he obtained a tripling of the spectral lines when the source of light is viewed across the lines of magnetic force , and a doubling when it is viewed along the lines of force ; yet these effects were obtained only after the theory of the phenomena pointed in this direction , and other reliable observers investigating the same lines have given expression to the opinion that when viewed the lines of force a doubling ( like a reversal ) or a broadening combined with a doubling occurred .
So far as X am aware most observers have failed to obtain distinct triplets when the light is viewed across the lines of force , that is , they have not succeeded in separating the constituents sufficiently to enable them to decide what the exact composition of the modified spectral line is .
By placing a nicol s prism in the path of the light it has been determined that the central part of the modified line is plane polarised , and that the edges are also plane polarised , but in a plane at right angles to the plane of polarisation of the middle part .
Thus with the nicol in one position the middle may be cut out , leaving the two border lines , and with the nicol turned through a right angle the two border lines may be removed , leaving the middle portion alone .
It is to be remarked , however , that observations of this nature , although they are in accordance with the supposition that the modified line is a triplet , yet they do not absolutely prove tripling pure and simple .
For this purpose it is necessary to obtain a magnetic field strong enough to separate completely the constituent parts of the modified line , so that each can be observed separately , without the complications attending the overlapping of the others .
Bj , way 'f illustration and explanation of the foregoing remarks it should be mentioned here that the observations which I have made m a general survey of the spectra of several substances indicate the existence of four types of effect , * which , although they easily harmonise as particular cases of one general type of effect , yet deserve to be noted , inasmuch as they are the results actually presented to observation .
Thus when the source of light is viewed across the lines of magnetic force some of the spectral lines are resolved into sharp triplets , in which the constituent lines are distinctly separated by clear spaces on the photographic plate .
In these the middle line ( of the triplet is stronger than the side lines , and agrees with the* f expectation that it should contain as much light as the two side lines !
combined .
On the other hand , some lines are not resolved into , These matters are treated in fuller detail in a paper communicated to the !
-Royal Dublin Society in December , 1896 .
28 Mr. T. Preston .
On the Modifications of the Spectra of Iron distinct triplets , but into what one may provisionally term " quartets .
" In these the two side lines contain nearly all the light , while the two middle lines are weak , but still very distinctly marked .
It may be that these arise from a partial reversal of the middle line of the triplet , and that they would consequently show as triplets but for such reversal .
The middle line , of course , is the one which would naturally suffer reversal in the layers of colder vapour , as it belongs to the period of vibration which is uninfluenced by the magnetic field\#151 ; yet the appearance of the weak middle pair is not that which one usually observes in the cases of reversal , nor in any case do the photographs of the line free from the magnetic field show any sign of reversal .
It is interesting to notice in passing that the lines to which attention has been chiefly directed by other observers , namely , the D sodium lines and the blue line of cadmium of wave-length 4800 , belong to this latter class , and no doubt the difficulty of deciding as to what really takes place , and the difference of opinion which has existed are to be attributed to this cause .
These lines do not resolve themselves into sharp triplets , and if one wishes to observe a distinct and well-defined triplet the violet line of cadmium 4678 or the violet line of zinc 4680 should be chosen .
Further , some lines show as doublets , or , if we wish to state it so , as triplets from which the middle line has completely disappeared\#151 ; the source of light being still viewed across the lines of force .
Whether this is due to complete absorption of the middle line in the outside vapour of the spai'k , or not , remains for further investigation .
The observation of it , however , led me to the subject of this communication , namely , the investigation of the spectrum of iron .
Finally , there are spectral lines which are only slightly broadened , and others which are scarcely affected by the magnetic field , even when this is strong enough to resolve other lines of the same substance into triplets , of which the side lines are more than half a millimetre apart , and visibly resolved on the photographic plate to the naked eye .
Viewed from the theoretical standpoint , we have no reason to demand that all , or indeed necessarily any , of the spectral lines should be resolved into sharp triplets when the source of light is viewed across the lines of magnetic force .
For , in order that a spectral line should exhibit itself as a characteristic triplet under the influence of the magnetic field , it is necessary that the freedom of vibration should be equal in all directions , and in this case the intensity of each rectangular component will be the same .
Hence the middle line of the triplet will contain as much light as the two side lines taken together .
If , however , the vibrations are not equally free in all directions the foregoing result will not hold , and it becomes possible to have a triplet with a weak middle line or with- and other Substances radiating a strong Magnetic Field .
29 out a middle line , in which case it shows as a doublet .
For example , if the vibration is restricted to one plane , and if this plane sets itself at right angles to the lines of magnetic force under the influence of the magnetic field , then the component of the vibration in the direction of the lines of force will be zero , and the middle line will vanish from the triplet .
If , on the other hand , the whole vibration should set itself parallel to the lines of force , then the side lines of the triplet would vanish , or , in other words , the spectral line would be unaffected by the magnetic field .
It is clear , therefore , that the study of the way in which the spectral lines are affected by the magnetic field is likely to throw light on the character of the molecular vibrations .
The substance which one would expect to present peculiarities in this way is iron , which , if it retains any of its magnetic properties at the high temperature of spark produced between the terminals of an induction coil , should exhibit some characteristic behaviour in the magnetic field .
I was led to expect , indeed , that many , if not all , of the iron lines would be resolved into doublets rather than triplets when the spark is viewed across the field .
I found it no easy matter , however , with the magnetic field at my disposal to resolve the iron lines into anything ; in the first place , because the effect is much smaller ( about one-half ) for iron than for the 4678 line of cadmium or zinc , and , in the second place , because it is not .
possible to work with the pole pieces of the magnet so close together when the spark is passed from a solution of a salt as when it is passed between small metal electrodes .
But in the case of a highly magnetic substance like iron the metal becomes almost unmanageable in a powerful magnetic field , and so it happened that in my first attempts I was not successful in resolving the iron lines into either doublets or triplets ; yet even at this stage I observed two or three lines converted into what I considered doublets .
Finally , I succeeded in resolving the vast majority of the lines of iron by enclosing pieces of iron wire in small glass tubes so that the ends of the wire protruded slightly from the glass where the spark occurred .
The pole pieces were then pushed up to touch the glass jackets , and the spark was thus obtained in a very strong field , in fact in a field strong enough to resolve the majority of the iron lines into distinct triplets , showing that these vibrations possess freedom in the magnetic field ( at the temperature of the spark ) ; but , in addition to this , other lines are observed as distinct doublets , and the appearance of these doublets is not that usually associated with a reversal .
In addition there are other lines in the spectrum of iron which are scarcely affected , if at all .
It is important to remark that these differences of effect by the same magnetic field on the different lines of the spectrum of the same substance are not shown in any particular ascending or descending 30 On the Spectra of Iron , $-c .
, radiating in a Magnetic Field .
order in the spectrum .
They may all exist in a single group of lines of nearly the same wave-length , and the magnitude of effect , even in the case of the lines which triple , cannot at present be stated to follow any law .
Sach a law , if one exists , can be discovered only by a complete survey of the spectra of various substances with a very powerful magnetic field capable of wide limits of variation .
Such a field I hope to possess in an electromagnet which is being built for the purposes of further inquiry in this direction .
In the meantime it may be taken as thoroughly determined that it is untrue to assume that there is any such law as that the effect is uniform for the various spectral lines of any substance , or that the effect varies as the wave-length or as the square of the wave-length .
No doubt it may be possible in the future to divide the spectral lines into groups such that the members of each group are similarly affected ; and it may be that a certain homology may be found to exist between the groups of one substance and those of other substances , and hence the effect produced by the magnetic field may be brought into line with those chemical and physical properties of the elements which have already thrown them into periodic groups .
I am at present very hopeful that some law will be obtained in this department for the phenomena attending the action of a magnetic field on the radiation from a source placed in it , for the results which I have already obtained show certain correspondences in the effects produced on the spectra of allied elements as well as certain recurrences of the same effect in the spectrum of the same substance .
The amount of ground so far covered has not , however , been sufficient , nor indeed has my magnetic field been sufficiently strong , to enable me to lay hold of any general principle controlling the o served effects ; nevertheless a useful purpose will be served in publishing this preliminary statement , as it will , at least to some extent , c ear t e ground for tnose who are at present considering the phenomena rom a purely theoretical standpoint , and it may also to some extent serve a perhaps equally useful purpose in diverting a useless expen lture of eneigy on the part of those who may be engaged in oTthe^actf the laWS 'f the phenomena without sufficient knowledge n conclusion I may mention that the spectral lines of air and hydrogen are rendered diffuse by the action of the magnetic field .
The broadening here is not of the character exhibited by spectral lines ot metals in which the lines remain sharp though easily broadened , of^rLlu^of t'hethLCliaraCtfer 'f a br'adenin8 ' P^duced by increase I may also add that the magnetic effect does not appear to be in any way parallel with the pressure effect , that is , the displacement of the lines caused by increase of pressure in the gas surrounding the Light Vibrations in a Magnetic Field .
31 source of light , which has been recently investigated by Messrs. Humphreys and Mohler .
The photographs referred to in this communication were taken with a spark source of light placed between the pole pieces of a good electromagnet of the ordinary U-shape , for the use of which I am indebted to the kindness of the Right Rev. Monsignor Molloy .
With this magnet I was able to obtain a field of about 25,000 C.G.S. units , and this separated the side lines of the triplets in the violet line 4678 of cadmium to a distance of 056 mm. apart .
The same separation takes place in the triplet given by the violet line 4680 of zinc , so that in the case of these lines we may infer in round numbers that a magnetic field of 20,000 C.G.S. units strength produces a difference of wave-length of one Angstrom unit between the side lines of the triplet , i.e. , a separation equal to one-sixth the difference of wavelength between the two D lines of sodium .
For iron the separation is about half this amount in the case of several lines .
\lt ; ;Note on the Connection between the Faraday Rotation of Plane of Polarisation and the Zeeman Change of Frequency of Light Vibrations in a Magnetic Field .
" By Geo. Fras .
FitzGerald , F.R.S. , F.T.C.D. Received March 2 , 1898 .
( Being Notes of a Contribution to the Discussion of Mr. Preston 's Paper above , read January 20 , 1898 .
) The rotation of the plane of polarisation of light in a magnetic field is due to the velocity of propagation of light circularly polarised in one direction being different from that of light circularly polarised in the opposite direction .
The Zeeman effect is due to a difference in the frequency of vibration of these circularly polarised waves .
What is required is to connect the frequency of vibration with the velocity of propagation.^ All modern theories of dispersion connect these two quantities .
The velocity of propagation of light in transparent media is now universally considered to be determined in part by what may be # From an abstract of a paper by M. Becquerel , in the c Comptes Rendus ' of last year , I understand him to view the Faraday effect as due to a carrying round of the light vibrations by matter rotations .
This is quite in accordance with the view sometimes held as to refraction , namely , that it is due to the waves being propagated through the molecules more slowly than through the ether .
The dynamical theory of these views is difficult on account of the smallness of the molecules in comparison with the length of the waves .
M. Becquerel 's view , as I understand it , makes the Faraday effect depend on a change of frequency of rotation of the waves in matter rather than on their velocity of propagation , and is consequently quite at variance both with the commonly received theory and with the one put forward in this note .

