488 Demonstration of Iron in Chromatin .
' [ Apr. 30 , tion to the plates ( which were rolled hot ) experimented upon in Table VIII , it will he noticed that , in several instances with soft cast steel and hard cast steel , the wrought iron did not assume the electropositive position until two or three hours after immersion in the nitric acid .
Subsequently the iron assumed its normal position , and became during the long remaining period of the observations electro-positive to the steels , with a considerable and increasing E.M.F. , showing that the wrought iron was becoming gradually very much less passive than the steels .
In the case of the soft Bessemer and soft Siemens plates , Table VIII , we have also a similar instance of these peculiar and temporary interchanges and variations of relative passivity which are not easily accounted for .
In the case of the tungsten steel , Table VI , the wrought iron was steadily in the electro-negative position , hence in the latter instance showing the wrought iron to be permanently more passive than the tungsten steel .
A reference to the experiments on the wrought iron and various steel plates , on Table VIII , shows that the E.M.F. between the passive wrought iron and the various soft steels , which contained less percentage of combined carbon , in circuit in cold nitric acid sp. gr. 1'42 , was very considerably less than the E.M.F. under similar conditions between the wrought-iron plates and the different hard steels having a higher percentage of combined carbon .
The latter results , therefore , demonstrate the interesting circumstance that steels , of a higher percentage of combined carbon are more passive than those of a lower percentage of combined carbon .
It will be observed that the wrought iron was also electro-positive to most of the steels , whether of a higher or lower percentage of combined carbon , which shows that wrought iron may be regarded as generally less passive than steels .
III .
" On the Demonstration of the Presence of Iron in Chromatin by Micro-chemical Methods .
" By A. B. Macallum , M.B. , Ph. D. Communicated by Professor H. N. Martin , F.R.S. Received April 23 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The method of isolating what is called chromatin by the histologist yields compounds of fairly stable composition called nucleins , some of which have been shown to contain iron ( Bunge and Zaleski ) .
My observations on haematopoiesis in Amphibia led me to the conclusion that the chromatin , from which the haemoglobin of the haematoblasts is derived , is an iron-holding compound .
Other observations indicated that the conclusion could , possibly , be made of general application , i.e. , that iron is present in the chromatin of every cell , animal and Presents .
1891 .
] vegetable .
The ordinary method of isolating chromatin employed in chemical and physiological laboratories cannot be readily applied in testing the correctness of this supposition .
It is conceivable that this substance absorbs and retains tenaciously iron-holding compounds as readily as it does some of the dyes used by the histologist .
It is not easy to remove such compounds without , possibly , decomposing the chromatin , and , when the latter is prepared in any quantity , one cannot be certain that the iron which is present may not be an impurity .
To overcome this difficulty , one must prepare chromatin from organs which are free from haematin or like substances , or from inorganic iron compounds , and , for this purpose , fairly large quantities would be necessary for chemical manipulation .
There is , apparently , no organ , animal or vegetable , which offers such an opportunity .
There consequently remains but one other way by which the view , that iron is constantly present in chromatin , can be put to the proof , and that is the micro-chemical one .
I have found that a certain method of employing ammonium sulphide as a reagent for iron shows the presence of the latter in the chromatin of the nuclei of a very large number of species of cells hardened in alcohol .
The iron in this case does not occur combined as an albuminate , but rather in a condition which , as regards the firmness of the combination , is comparable to that present in potassium ferrocyanide or haematin .
That the iron found is not due to the presence of haematin is shown by the results of experiments made with vegetable cells , and with animal cells which one would not naturally expect to contain haematin , as , for example , those of the corneal epithelium in Amphibia .
In support of this may also be mentioned the fact that where chromatin is very abundant the iron reaction is very marked , while it is feeble in cells poor in chromatin .
In the chromatin loops and filaments of karyokinetic figures the iron reaction is intense and sharply confined to these structures .
I forego , for the present , any expression of opinion as to the general application of the results obtained .
I would not even maintain that the chromatin of every cell essentially contains iron , although my studies have , so far , not furnished an instance which can support the contrary view .
| The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May 14 .
Presents , April 30 , 1891 .
Transactions .
Adelaide:\#151 ; Royal Society of South Australia .
Transactions .
Vol. XIII .
Part 2 .
8vo .
Adelaide 1890 .
The Society .
Berlin:\#151 ; Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde .
Yerhandlungen .
Bd .
XVIII .
Ro .
7 .
8vo .
Berlin 1891 .
The Society .
*

