142 Mr. W. K. Parker .
[ May 5 , II .
" On the Structure and Development of the Skull in Sturgeons ( Acipenserruthenus and A. By W K Parker , F.R.S. Received April 14 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) Since the publication of my paper on the skull of the salmon , a Teleostean fish , I have made many efforts to obtain early stages of the Ganoid types .
Until the last two years , however , I have failed .
At last , I have been taken almost by surprise by the kindness of Professor W. Salensky , of Kasan , and of Professor Alexander Agassiz , of Harvard College , Cambridge , Mass .
The former has supplied Mr. F. M. Balfour and myself with a number of bottles of early stages of the sterlet ( Acipenser ruthenus ) , whilst from Professor Agassiz we have received fifty-four bottles of fecundated eggs and embryos of various stages of the Lepidosteus .
Mr. Balfour s researches on the early stages of the sterlet , supplementing those of Professor Salensky , will appear immediately in the second volume of his work on " Comparative Embryology , " and the result of his researches on the development of the , in which he was assisted by one of my sons , will be sent to the Royal Society towards the fall of the present year .
That paper , now far advanced , will be accompanied by one , already written and ready for publication , by me , on the development of the skull in the same species of Ganoid fish .
I had long ago received from the late Mr. Wm. Llovd a number of young sturgeons of the common kind , but the smallest of them was 7 inches long ; the largest of the larvae of the small Russian species was only seven-twelfths of an inch in length .
Yet , notwithstanding the small size of these larvae , their development had advanced very greatly and the cartilaginous framework was in a state of incipient completeness .
Any little difficulty felt on step-ping from the structure of specimens seven lines long to those seven inches long was done away with by the means at hand of comparison of the two types of Ganoids , namely Acipenser and Lepidosteus ; for of the latter my specimens were very numerous and in every desirable stage .
Of the fry which Professor A. Agassiz and his talented assistant , Mr. S. Garman , had succeeded in rearing , many had reached to the length of an inch , and were pretty exact miniatures of their parents .
But , besides these , I have received from Professor Burt Wilder , of Cornell University , Ithaca , Mass .
, U.S. , some specimens of Lepidosteus I'anging from 1 to 4^ inches in length .
J881 ] Structure and Development of the Skull in Sturgeons .
143 " We have thus been breaking ground , rather actively , among this most important and almost extinct " order " of fishes ; a very im-nortant addition to the work will soon come to hand , namely , a memoir by Professor Traquair , on the adult skull of Lepidosteus .
I mention these details to show that biologists are working with a will , and working as yoke-fellows ; and no doubt remains with me as to the result of such co-operation .
I must refer the reader to Professor Salensky 's invaluable work on the development of the sterlet ( Hasan , 1878 ) , unfortunately published in Bussian , and to the second volume of Mr. Balfour 's work , for , an account of the earliest stages of the A embryo .
Even in larvae one-third of an inch in length , the cartilage was becoming consolidated , and I was able to work out , by sections and dissections , the structure of the cranium and visceral arches ; the one specimen which was seven-twelfths of an inch in length , and which was made into a large number of extremely thin sections , left nothing to be desired .
As I hope for an early publication of the present paper , I shall not enter very largely into details ; they can only be followed , profitably , by help of the numerous illustrations .
The development of the skull of the sturgeon is very similar to what we find in the sharks and skates ( " Selachians ) , but the suspension of both the mandibular and the hyoid arches by one pier , derived from the hyoid ( the hyostylic skull ) , which is seen in the Selachians on one hand and on the Holostean Ganoid and Teleosteans on the other , attains its fullest development in the " Acipenseridae , " or Chondrosteous Ganoids , for in them the " symplectic " is a separate cartilage , and not a mere osseous centre as in Lepidosteus and the Teleostei .
Here I find a very noticeable fact , namely , that whilst in the salmon the metamorphosis of the simple primary arches of the face can be followed step by step , in the sturgeon the peculiar modification of the arches shows itself during chondrification ; the hyoid arch , from the first , is inordinately large .
Notwithstanding the huge size of the subdivided hyoid pier , its head only articulates in the larva with the auditory capsule ; later on the basal cartilage reaches it , as in the Selachians .
But the arches that retain their normal size lend no colour to the theory that the visceral arches are related by their dorsal ends to the paired cartilages that invest the notochord , a state of things like that seen in the ribs and in the superficial cartilaginous hoops that surround the huge pharynx of the lamprey .
Mr. Balfour has demonstratively shown that in the branchial region , when the pleuro-peritoneal cavity has been subdivided by the hypo-bias tic outgrowths of the pharynx , the aortic arches lie inside the 144 Structure and Development of the Skull in .
[ May 5 , small temporary " head cavities , " or remnants of the once continuous subdivision of the body wall into an inner layer , the " splanchno-pleure , " and an outer layer , the " somato-pleure .
" But the aortic arches mount up , on each side , outside the proper branchial arches , which become grooved to receive them ; these arches must , therefore , be considered as developments of the temporarily separate " splanchno-pleure " ; they cannot be classed with the costal arches , which are developed in the permanently distinct " somato-pleure.'* My dissections and sections , both of this type and of the Selachians , show , without leaving room for doubt , that all the visceral , or , properly speaking , branchial arches , mandibular , hyoid , and post-hyoid ( branchial proper ) are developed in the outer walls of the large respiratory pharynx , quite independently of the base of the skull and the fore part of the spinal column .
I have , at last , ceased to contend for true branchial or visceral arches in front of the mouth , and also to look upon the mouth and the openings around or in front of it as more than mere involutions of the epiblast ; the first cleft is that between the mandible and the hyoid arch , the first arch is the mandibular .
With regard to the skull , it is now very evident that the " trabeculae cranii , " even in their furthest growth forwards from the end of the cephalic notochord , are merely foregrowths from the moieties of the investing mass ( the parachordals ) , the true axis of the cranial skeleton ending under the fold of the mid-brain .
The " cornua " of the trabeculae , and the " intertrabecular " part or tract , are fresh shoots , so to speak , of cartilage that are specially developed to finish the cranial box and the internasal framework .
I fear that my long-cherished pre-oral visceral arches will now have to go down and take their place among these secondary or adaptive growths .
I may remark , in concluding this very imperfect abstract , that the sturgeon is a very important type for the morphologist to get clear light upon .
In the Selachians the huge pterygoid foregrowth of the mandibular arch aborts the apex of its pier , the function of which is supplied by the hyo-mandibular ; fragments only are developed in its upper part .
In the sharks from one to three mere " rays " are developed in front of the small upper remnant of the first cleft ( " spiracle " ) ; in skates there is , as a rule , a small separate piece , the true apex of the arch , its " pedicle .
" In one kind , however , the torpedo , four such fragments appear on each side , as shown by Gegenbaur .
In the sturgeon there is a most remarkable- plate in the common metapterygoid region , its form is rhomboidal ; it is composed of a number of well-compacted pieces of cartilage , a middle series of azygous plates , and a somewhat irregular arrangement of plates right and left of these .
This 1881 ] Dr. W. Roberts .
On Pancreatic Extracts .
145 remarkable structure only exists in the Acipenseroids ; it is not found m/ nth !
fSelachians the " placoid " plates or spines are not brought under the influence of the chondrocranium , which has neither parosteal plates applied as splints to it , nor ectosteal plates grafted upon it .
F jn Aci'penserthere are both parostoses applied to the oral apparatus , and ectosteal centres in the post-mandibular arches ; moreover , along the side of the skull , in old individuals , plates of bone appear as these splints or parostoses , that are manifestly the forerunners of the deeper plates that , in the higher Ganoids and the Teleostei , form the proper ectosteal bony centres of the more or less ossified cranial box .
The Ganoid scutes of the sturgeon are so far dominated by the huge chondrocranium , that , by courtesy , they may be called frontal , parietal , opercular , and the like ; of course , such scutes are not the accurate homologues of the bones so named in the Teleostei , which , at the most , can only correspond to the inner layer of the scute of such a fish as the sturgeon .
The sturgeons , as a group , cannot be said to lie directly between any one family of the Selachians and any one family of the Bony Ganoids , yet , on the whole , that is their position ; the Bony Ganoids , on the whole , approach the Teleostei , especially such forms as Lepi-dosteus and Amia , which have lost their " spiracle , ' and in other things are less than typical , as Ganoids .
Larval sturgeons are , in appearance , miniature sharks ; for a few weeks they have a similar mouth , and their lips and throat are beset with true teeth , that are moulted before calcification has fairly set in .
Their first gills are very long and exposed , but not nearly so long , or for such a time uncovered , as in the embryos of sharks and skates .
III .
" On the Estimation of the Amylolytic and Proteolytic Activity of Pancreatic Extracts .
" By WILLIAM Roberts , M.D. , F.R.S. , Physician to the Manchester Royal Infirmary and Professor of Clinical Medicine in Owens College .
Received April 23 , 1881 .
The degree of activity possessed by preparations of the soluble ferments cannot be ascertained by direct weighing and measuring .
The agents to which they owe their power have in no case been obtained in a state of isolation and purity .
These agents are known to be indissolubly united with some form of albuminoid matter , and we are constrained to speak of them as if they really were albuminoid bodies .
But their mode of action suggests an affinity with the imponderable forces , and points to the conclusion that the relation which these

