1901.1 Experimental Researches on Brawn Steel .
27 masses of tellurium and iodine , \amp ; c. , are further evidences of this .
The properties of tellurium and iodine may have nothing whatever to-do with each other .
They are , however , closely related to , and in correct order with , those of the elements of their respective groups as .
given above .
The genesis was not in the direction of tellurium to iodine , but from , or perhaps through , oxygen and fluorine respectively .
So also with regard to the other groups .
It is more probable that in the genesis of the elements the properties of certain fundamental substances are modified by successive additions of matter to them , * or by causes of which this is , to us , the apparent result .
The regularity in the changes in the properties of lithium , , beryllium , boron , and carbon , as seen in the diagrams , is very remarkable .
It is , furthermore , very suggestive , for the changes in properties are approximately proportional to the quantity of matter in the atom in excess of a constant ( which is about 6 ) , as if it were the same matter that is added in each case .
I must express my best thanks to Dr. J. H. Vincent , to Professor Living , Dr. Larmor , and Professor J. J. Thomson , for the interest they have taken in this work , and for the kindly encouragement they gave me , especially in the earlier stages of it .
It was while working with .
Professor Hartley that I acquired the knowledge of spectra which led me to begin the investigation , and I am deeply grateful to him for the means of acquiring that knowledge .
" Experimental Researches on Drawn Steel.\#151 ; Part I. Magnetism and its Changes with Temperature.\#151 ; Part II .
Resistivity , Elasticity and Density , and the Temperature Coefficients of Resistivity and Elasticity .
" By J. Reginald Ashworth .
Communicated by Professor Schuster , E.R.S. Received .
January 30 , \#151 ; Read March 6 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) Part I. In a former paper it was shown that the variation of the intensity of magnetisation of a magnet under fluctuations of temperature is controlled to a large extent by the self-demagnetising factor of the # January 27,1902.\#151 ; Professor Hartley has recently called my attention to a letter M On the Inadequacy of Aids and Facilities for Scientific Research , " which he wrote to the * Chemical News9 on November 9,1895 .
The following statement is quoted from that letteru One element in a group differs in its properties from another , not because it consists of another kind of matter , but because the quantity of matter in an atom of it is different .
" 28 Mr. J. E. Ashworth .
[ Jan. 30 , magnet , the self-demagnetising factor being governed by the dimension ratio .
In general , an increment of temperature in the cyclic state reduces and a fall of temperature augments the magnetic intensity so " that a in the equation * It ' =I\#171 ; ( 1 + \#151 ; is negative , t ' being a greater temperature than t and It\gt ; and It the corresponding magnetic intensities .
But it was discovered that magnets made of pianoforte wire in the commercial state , more than 50 diameters long , exhibited a positive or incremental coefficient .
If the magnet were much shorter the coefficient was decremental , and , for an intermediate dimension ratio , zero .
In the present paper a complete experimental investigation of the temperature coefficient of a magnet is undertaken .
Attention is at first confined to pianoforte steel wire , and tables and curves are given .of the change of a , and the change also of I , as the dimension ratio is increased from about 16 to 100 for the wire in three conditions , namely , annealed , glass hard , and commercial drawn state .
In the first two the coefficient is decremental and , in magnitude , large for annealed and very small for glass hard ; but in the drawn state oc changes from decremental to incremental as the dimension ratio -advances .
It thus appears that the drawing is responsible for the peculiar behaviour of a. To confirm this , experiments were made on twelve samples of pianoforte steel , representing every stage in the process of drawing from the rolled rod through annealing and tempering to the fine-drawn wire , the drawing being carried one or two steps farther than is usual in commercial practice .
The experiments were made on lengths of 50 and 100 diameters .
The curves which are traced show very \#166 ; clearly that a changes in sign at a not very advanced -stage in the drawing , grows more positive , reaches a maximum , and then droops towards zero again at extreme drawing .
The magnetic intensity rises steadily with drawing , and shows no tendency to diminish even at the final stage of drawing ; it is then about 200 per cent , greater than at the first drawing .
An examination of a piece of drawn steel wire about 400 diameters long then follows , in which susceptibility and intensity are determined when the wire was at air temperature and when it was at 100s C. The effect of heating is very pronounced and , unlike the general behaviour of iron and steel , the hot curve of magnetisation is always above the cold curve , as the steel is carried to its greatest intensity and brought to its residual condition by the withdrawal of all force .
Thus it retains more magnetism hot than cold .
But on demagnetising , the hot curve droops faster than the cold curve , and the curves intersect when the reversed force is about 4 C.G.S. units , and at this 1902.1 Experimental Researches on Brawn Steel .
29* point the magnetic intensity is the same hot or cold .
The explanation of the fact that a self-demagnetising force of given amount produces a zero temperature coefficient in drawn steel now becomes clear .
The influence of magnetic intensity on the magnitude of a is next investigated in a long series of observations .
The wire was magnetised step by step , and at each step the temperature coefficient * and the percentage permanent change of intensity were determined , both for induced and residual intensity .
The temperature coefficient in general follows the susceptibility and becomes least at the highest intensity but always incremental ; on demagnetising it increases slightly and then falls towards zero , which occurs at some very low residual intensity .
The behaviour of the residual magnetism as demagnetisation proceeds is very interesting ; when a small part of the magnetism is-removed , the effect of alternate heatings and coolings is to leave the intensity higher than before the application of heat and cold , and the more the magnetism is removed the greater the recovery by heating and cooling ; and , at last , on applying so large a demagnetising foree as to remove all the magnetism and to leave a small residual intensity inverse to the direction of the original intensity , then , heatings and coolings clear this out and restore some of the original magnetisation .
The behaviour of the coefficient during these changes is also discussed .
For comparison , the same series of experiments was performed upon an annealed iron wire about 400 diameters long .
The hot curve of magnetisation crosses the cold curve a little beyond maximum susceptibility and the maximum residual intensity is less hot than cold ; it would therefore appear that at some small initial intensity the coefficient should be positive , at a later stage zero , and finally negative .
The zero coefficient was not obtained in these experiments , , but the subsequent negative coefficient was traced , and it was found , that when the susceptibility is large the negative coefficient is a minimum ; the coefficient is throughout negative during demagnetisation .
The intensity under heating and cooling is similar in behaviour to the intensity of drawn steel ; on magnetising , heatings and coolings always cause a loss of residual magnetism , but on demagnetising heatings and coolings restore some of the magnetism removed .
It would no doubt be advantageous for the sake of producing a magnet of constant intensity to apply a small reversed force after magnetising* to saturation , any fluctuations of temperature afterwards would then tend to increase rather than diminish the intensity .
It is pointed out that the gradual decay of magnetism in observatory magnets will generally be accompanied by some change in the coefficient , and that remagnetisation of magnets will likewise alter the magnitude of the coefficient ; the general effect of this change will be " 30 Experimental Researches on Drawn Steel .
[ Jan. 30 , .determined by the position of the point of intersection of the hot and .cold curves of magnetisation .
Observations , extending over several years , then follow on four magnets made of drawn steel and treated in two different ways so as to have nearly zero coefficients , and the effects of time and the effects of demagnetisation on the temperature coefficient and on the intensity \#166 ; are studied .
Part II .
The series of wires representing the twelve stages in the manufacture of drawn wire were subjected to examination for resistivity and its temperature coefficient , for Young 's modulus , and its temperature .coefficient , and for density .
Resistivity is augmented by tempering but diminished by drawing up to a certain stage ; extreme traction , however , causes a rapid increase again of resistivity .
The temperature coefficient is related to the resistivity , so that , in general , high resistivity and low coefficient are associated .
Drawing , Jiowever , does not produce a very large change in the temperature .coefficient of resistivity .
Young 's modulus increases markedly with tempering and to a less .extent with drawing up to the point where the resistivity is a minimum ; after that , extreme drawing produces a sharp diminution \#166 ; of the modulus .
The temperature coefficient of Young 's modulus presents an interesting relation to the modulus and like the resistivity coefficient follows in an inverse sense the modulus curve , so that when the modulus is large the coefficient is small .
It was observed that after heating and cooling the wire , the value of Young 's modulus did not return to its initial value but was always a little greater ; perhaps this was not a permanent effect , although it persisted for some time .
A careful series of determinations on the density of the wires showed that , with some initial irregularities , the density is very decidedly increased by drawing to the very last stage , when it becomes 8 grammes per c.cm .
There is a very close correspondence ' between density and magnetic intensity , the two being nearly proportional to one another over a considerable range ; there is also some evidence of agreement between a smoothed curve of Young 's modulus and the magnetic intensity ; both appear to be functions of the density .

