244 Mr. A. E. Shipley .
On the [ Nov. 26 , The facts above recorded are somewhat novel .
That they are facts so far as Peripatus capensis is concerned I have not the slightest doubt .
Whether or no they are applicable to other animals is another question .
If they are , the following considerations present themselves :\#151 ; ] .
Klein 's view of the continuity between the reticulum of the nucleus and the reticulum of the extra-nuclear protoplasm receives striking confirmation , 2 .
Metschnikoff 's and Lankester 's views as to the origin of the gastrula and its gut receives support .
3 .
Herbert Spencer 's view of the origin of the nervous system may perhaps not be so far from the mark as at first sight appeared .
4 .
The connexion between the nerve and muscles and sensory epithelial cells receives its morphological explanation , being due to a primitive continuity which has never been broken .
In fact the connexion between almost every kind of tissue cell is explicable as being the primitive condition .
5 .
There is no essential difference between ducts with perforated cells and ducts with so-called cellular walls ( inter- and intra-cellular ducts ) .
6 .
If the protoplasm of the body is really a syncytium , and the ovum until maturity in the ovary a part of that syncytium , the separation of the generative products does not differ essentially from the internal gemmation of a protozoon , and the inheritance by the offspring of peculiarities first appearing in the parent , though not explained , is rendered less .
mysterious , for the protoplasm of the whole body being continuous , changes in the molecular constitution of any part of it would naturally be expected to spread , in time , through the whole mass .
Shortly , these facts if generally applicable reduce the adult body to a syncytium\#151 ; to a multi-nucleated vacuolated protoplasmic mass , and embryonic development to a multiplication of nuclei and a specialization of tracts in this mass .
II .
" On the Formation of the Mesoblast , and the Persistence of the Blastopore in the Lamprey .
" By Arthur E. Shipley , B.A. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received October 29 , 1885 .
At the close of segmentation the egg of the Lamprey ( Petromyzon planeri ) forms a blastosphere .
Owing to the way in which the yolk is distributed , the segmentation cavity is rather eccentrically placed .
It is roofed in by several rows of small cells , while its floor is composed of a few very large cells much crowded with food yolk .
The and Blastopore of the Lamprey .
1885 .
] small cells pass gradually into the larger ones at the sides of the segmentation cavity .
All the cells of the blastosphere are crowded with yolk spherules , which are , however , very much smaller in the upper cells , where active division is going on , than in the more inert lower cells !
The latter may be conveniently termed the yolk cells .
The segmentation cavity is considerably larger than that of the frog 's ovum at a similar period .
The next stage in the development of the ovum is accompanied by the thinning out of the upper layer of cells , until the roof of the segmentation cavity finally consists of a single layer of cells .
On this point my observations confirm those of Calberla , and are opposed to those of Max Schultze , who found a many-layered roof covering the segmentation cavity just before invagination .
The layer is composed of epiblastic cells , and in this respect resembles the many-layered roof of the segmentation cavity in the frog 's ovum of the same stage .
The lower cells of the many-layered roof seem to pass round to the sides and floor of the segmentation cavity , so that about the fiftieth hour after fertilisation the upper half of the egg consists of a hemispherical segmentation cavity , roofed in by a single layer of cells , the lower half being solid and composed of yolk cells .
Viewed as an opaque object , the upper half is of a whiter colour than the lower .
The invagination to form the mesenteron takes place in the 1 egion where the single layer of epiblast cells passes into the yolk cells .
In my eggs the first trace of this invagination appeared about 130 hours after artificial fertilisation .
The mouth of the invagination or blastopore is at first a wide arched slit .
, which subsequently narrows to a round hole .
From the first sign of invagination , a cavity , the mesenteron , is present ; in this the Lamprey resembles Amphioxus , but diffeis from the Frog , where the mesenteron is formed as a slit some time after the invagination has begun .
It differs from Amphioxus , however , in the fact that the invagination is not symmetrical , being like the segmentation cavity , pushed dorsally by the accumulation of yolk cells at the lower pole .
The upper layer of invaginated cells retain the character of the epiblast cells , the lower are larger , and have the characters of the yolk cells .
The former lie close against the inner surface of the epiblast cells in the dorsal median line , here again differing trom the Frog , where a mass of cells , which subsequently form mesoderm , lies dorsally to the invaginated cells and between them and epidermis .
There is thus no mesoblast present at the dorsal rim of the blastopore , such as is found in frog 's egg .
During these processes the epiblastic cells have gradually enclosed the yolk cells ; this appears to take place by the conversion of the outer yolk cells into epiblast cells , and takes place latest in the region of the blastopore .
The mesenteron continues to deepen , and as it increases in size the segmentation cavity diminishes , and is finally obliterated .
The roof and Mr. A. E. Shipley .
On Mesohlast [ Nov. 26 , sides of the mesenteron consist of columnar cells , in appearance very like the epiblast , against the inner surface of which it is closely pressed .
The floor is composed of cells , which retain their yolk-like characteristics for a considerable time .
The mesoblast now begins to appear by the differentiation of two bands of those yolk cells which lie in the angles formed by the invaginated mesenteron and the epiblast .
The differentiation appears to take place from before backwards .
The two bands of mesoblast are separated from one another in the dorsal median line by the juxtaposition of the invaginated hypoblast and the epiblast .
They are separated ventrally by the hypo-blastic yolk cells which are in contact with the epiblast over the lower two-thirds of the egg .
Subsequently , but at a very much later stage , the mesoblast is completed ventrally by the downgrowth on each side of the mesoblastic plates .
These proliferate cells at their edge , which grow down between the hypoblastic yolk cells , and so complete the mesoblast ventrally .
The first formation of the longitudinal band appears to take place by a differentiation of hypoblastic cells in situ , and not by an invagination of cells .
This account of the origin of the mesoblast differs materially from that given by Scott .
According to his observations , the mesoblast is derived from two sources : ( 1 ) cells which are invaginated with the mesenteron , these form the longitudinal bands ; ( 2 ) the outer layer of hypoblastic yolk cells , which split off the remainder , and form the ventral sheet which completes the mesoblast on that side of the body .
Since by this time the head of the embryo has raised itself above the yolk , there are no hypoblastic yolk cells in it , , and consequently its mesoderm is entirely derived from the first source , whereas in the trunk the dorsal mesoderm is derived from the first source , the ventral from the second .
By the time that the mesoblastic plates become separated from the yolk cells , the neural plate becomes evident in the exterior .
This extends from the blastopore as a low ridge , over two-thirds of the circumference of the egg .
Its appearance is soon followed by the separation of the anterior end from the rest of the yolk .
The invaginated endoderm has extended round for more than half the circumference of the egg , and .
its most anterior portion is included in the head , which is by this time distinct from the rest of the embryo .
All this time the blastopore has been visible at the posterior end of the neural plate .
It has been figured in this position by Schultze , who gives a very complete set of figures of the embryo viewed as a whole .
The elongation of the embryo now proceeds so rapidly that the anterior end curves round over the blastopore ; the posterior end is much the largest , containing all the food yolk .
Schultze , from observations upon the whole embryo , came to the 1885 .
] and Blastopore of the Lamprey .
conclusion that blastopore persisted as the anus , and this view was supported by Calberla .
On the other hand the later observers , who have studied the development by means of sections , have maintained Benecke 's view that the blastopore closes .
Scott describes the neural canal as enclosing the blastopore , and by its closure forming a neurenteric canal , which he figures .
He states that the anus is subsequently formed by a protrusion , of the alimentary canal against the skin , which becomes open about the twentieth day .
Balfour states that the blastopore closes , and does not form the permanent anus .
My observations on the embryo as an ' opaque object led me to the belief that the blastopore remained open , and in this T have been confirmed by a number of series of sections taken from embryos of all stages , from the commencement of the invagination until the time when the cloaca is definitely established .
At its first appearance the blastopore is situated at the posterior dorsal surface of the embryo , but by the elongation of the embryo and the formation of the tail the blastopore comes to occupy a position on the ventral surface .
Scott was of opinion that the lumen of the invaginated mesenteron persisted only in the fore-gut .
This part of .
the alimentary canal shortly after the invagination is completed is raised with the head from the rest of the embryo .
This part is therefore free from the large yolk cells , and the cells lining the mesenteron soon assume a definite columnar character , although they continue to contain yolk granules for a considerable time .
According to Scott and Calberla the lumen of the mesenteron in the trunk entirely disappears , and only appears again at a much later stage .
My sections , however , show that the lumen never really disappears .
At its anterior end , as is just mentioned , its lining cells soon become columnar , and these extend from its blind anterior end to the posterior part of what will subsequently form the gill region .
A similar change takes place at the posterior end .
The cells surrounding the blastopore , and extending for some distance into the alimentary canal , very early assume a columnar character , and are in fact indistinguishable from the epidermal cells .
The cells lining the mid-gut do not assume this epithelial-like character till a much later stage .
The dorsal row are , however , more columnar than those on the ventral side ; these latter have just the same characters as the other yolk cells .
At its posterior end the neural tube becomes solid , and this solid rod soon fuses with the posterior end of the notochord , and with a solid rod of cells which pass backwards from the hind-gut , and probably represent the post-anal gut .
A little further back the meso-blastic plates join this mass of indifferent tissue ; so that we have behind the anus , in a position corresponding to the front lip of the blastopore , when it occupied its primitive position on the posterior dorsal surface , 248 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches on [ Nov. 26 , a mass of indifferent tissue , into which pass representatives of all three germinal layers .
This must represent the primitive streak .
The persistence of the blastopore to form the anns has been demonstrated in the Amphibia , by Miss Johnson in the Newt , by Gasser in Alytes , and by Spencer in the Frog .
The fact that it persists in the Cyclostomata appears to point to the fact that this is a primitive feature retained in those eggs which have not become much modified by the presence of a large mass of yolk .
This view would be greatly confirmed if renewed observation on the development of Amphioxus should demonstrate the same fact .
IIL " Researches on Myohaematin and the Histohaematins .
" By C. A. MacMunn , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received October 19 , 18*85 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of observations made on the spectra of the organs and tissues of invertebrates and vertebrates , which have brought to light the presence of a series of animal colouring matter 's which had not previously been discovered .
The name histohsematins is proposed for all these colouring matters , and that of myohaematin for the intrinsic pigment occurring in striped muscle , which belongs to the same series .
These pigments are not identical with any known decomposition product of haemoglobin , and they are found in animals in whose bodies no haemoglobin can be found .
The method of examination is as follows :\#151 ; -The tissue or part of organ to be examined is put into a compressorium , by means of which any required thickness can be obtained , it is illuminated by means of a large sub-stage condenser , and examined with a Sorby 's microspectroscope fitted to a binocular microscope , the binocular form being preferred , as one tube is free for the observation of the specimen .
The source of illumination was generally an argand gas burner , sometimes direct sunlight , sometimes a Swan lamp .
The objectives of the microscope up to the one-eighth were so adapted as to enable both fields of the microscope to be fully illuminated , which is a matter of importance in dealing with small quantities of material , or in differentiating those portions of an object which give different spectra .
The Histohcematim.\#151 ; Examined in this way the organs and .
tissues of invertebrates and vertebrates present a series of spectra , which are all evidently connected with each other .
From Echinoderms to man the same appearances have been found ; thus there is a most striking

