]\gt ; On the Shapes of the Equipotential ces in the Air Walls or Buildings on their Effect on the Atmospheric Potential Gradients .
By CHAItLES H. LEES , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received May 10 , 1915 .
) S1 .
In considering the most suitable arrangements for recording variations of the atmospheric potential gradient at the East London where no large horizontal surface is available , I frave had occasion to the distribution of potential in the neighbourhood of walls and buildings simple shapes .
As the results can be applied in practice it seems to put them on record for the use of other observers .
Observation shows that during fine weather the potential at a the atmosphere over a level portion of the earth 's surface in these increases as the point is raised , at the rate of about 150 volts per metre .
This rate of increase diminishes slowly as the point ascends , owing to ths slight excess of positive over negative ions in the air near the earth 's surface , and at an altitude of a kilometre is reduced to about per cent. of its value at the surface .
* The potential differences between points on the earth 's surface 1000 metoes apart or between a point on the surface of a building and one on the ground near it are found to be small compared to those present in the atmosphere .
For the present purpose we shall neglect the small effect of the ions near the earth 's surface on the potential gradient for the first few metres above the surface and shaJl treat the earth 's surface as plane and the earth and buildings as being conductors .
In order further to simplify the problem as much as possible , the walls of the buildings are taken to be long in comparison to their heights , so that the effects of the corners on the distribution of * The article " " Atmospheric Electricity by Chree , in the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica , 11th edition , or that by Gerdien in the 'Handbuch der Physik , ' vol. 4 , p. 687 , or Mache and von Schweidler 's 'Atmospherische Elektrizitat , ' chap .
I , may be consulted for accounts of the methods used and the results obtained .
For recent results obtained at Kew , Chree Phil. Trans , and , p. 133 ( 1916 ) ) and Dobson ' Proc. Phys. Soc. Lon vol. 26 , p. 334 1914 ) ) may be consulted .
Benndorf ( ' Wiener Ber vol. 109 , p. 923 ( 1900 ) , vol. 115 , p. 425 ( 1906 ) determined with the same simplifications the changes in the vertical potential near a long plateau with rounded edges , a circular plateau , and an ellipsoidal Sir J. Larmor and J. S. B. Larmor ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 90 , p. 312 ( 1914 ) ) diagrams of potential surfaces , etc. , for an ellipsoidal column and an sphere .
Equipotential Surfaces in Air near Long Walls .
near the middle of their length may be neglected .
The walls are taken to be vertical , and in the case of more than one to be parallel other .
Roofs are taken to be horizontal .
Case I.\mdash ; A long thin vertical wall projects from a horizontal surface which , at a considerable distance from the wall , the potential gradient constant .
T.o find the distribution of potential near the wall .
Take the plane , where , vertical and perpendicular to the wall , axis along the horizontal plane , and the axis up the wall .
If is height of the wall , the Schwarzian transformation , converts the and axes into the axis of in the plane the first quadrant in the former into the first two quadrants in the latter plane .
Integrating , we have or .
( 1 ) If is a point in the air whose bi-polar co-ordinates are , from the top of the wall and from the image of the top in the plane respectively , the last equation gives us at . .
( 2 ) Thus the potential at any point whose bi-polar co-ordinates are given is easily calculated .
To calculate the potential at a point whose co-ordinates are , or to draw the surfaces of equal potential , it is more convenient to use equation ( 1 ) , which gives on equating separately the real and unreal parts and on eliminating Thus the potential at the point , is given by and the factor by which the observed potential at the point , should be multiplied to give the potential at the height above an infinite plane is The equipotential lines are readily drawn from the equation .
( 4 ) They are shown in fig. for the case * I have to thank Lieut. B. Barnes , 10th East Surreys , one of my senior students , for drawing these curves .
Dr. C. H. Lees .
S3 .
If is constant we have , since ) If , further , , then and when is infinitely large .
The last two equations show that the ratio of the vertical potential gradient at a point on the ground to the normal vertical gradient is equal to the cosine of the angle subtended at the point by the height of the walL The following Table*shows the vertical gradient at points on the ground whose distances from the foot of the wall are given in terms of the height of the wall .
* This Table and the corresponding ones on pp. 445 and 449 are added at the suggestion of Dr. Chree so as to be available for discussion of the effects of vertical potential gradients on plants and animals .
S4 .
If is constant we have in the same way At this gives , if is less than The horizontal potential gradient at on the wall is therefore identical with the normal vertical gradient if tha.t is if As we proceed outwards from the wall the horizontal potential radiant decreases , but at the height we may move outwards a distance ] without the potential being 1 per cent. less than that which would have been found at the point if the horizontalgradient had remained constant and equal to the normal vertical gradient .
At a distance from the wall the potential is 5 per cent. less than the normal gradient would give .
At larger distances from the wall the change of potential should be calculated directly from either of the expressions ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) for it in terms of the co-ordinates of the point .
S5 .
Case II .
\mdash ; A long vertical retaining wall separates from each other two horizontal plane surfaces over which the potential gradient at a considerable distance from the wall is the same and independent of height above the planes .
To determine the distribution of potential near the wall .
Taking the plane , where , vertical and perpendicular to the retaining wall , the axis along the lower plane , and the axis up the surface of the wall , we have the Schwarzian transformation Dr. C. H. Lees .
which converts the lower boundary of the the plane into axis of in the plane , where Writing , the equation becomes integral of which is .
Expanding and separating real and unreal parts , we have and sjnh If we must have either or or In the first case , in the second .
, in the last .
height of the wall is therefore equal to , that is , and equations connecting and may be written To find the potential at a given point , it is necessary to solve , the second set of transcendental equations ( 8 ) or ( 9 ) , and substitute values of and in the equation for To draw the equipotential surfaces we use the equations:\mdash ; and assign to all values from to and to values exceeding The curves obtained are shown in fig. 2 for the case in which the height the equipotential surface of potential unity is equal to that of the wall , is and Equipotential Surfaces in Air near Long On differentiating equations ( 9 ) we have ( 11 ) S 6 .
If is constant we have Hence the vertical potential gradient at the point corresponding to , is given by ( 12 ) if if In each case if is The vertical potential gradient is therefore over both planes at considerable distances from the retaining wall .
At smaller distances it is less than the normal over the lower and greater than it over the upper plane .
Table of , near the Middle of a Long Retaining Wall or Flat-roofed Building .
Dr. C. H. Lees .
The preceding Table gives in terms of the normal gradient the adient at points whose distanoes from the foot and top of the on each of the horizontal surfaces are expressed in terms of the wall .
S 7 .
If is constant we have Thus and Hence the horizontal potential ooradient at the point corresponding to by ; if , that is when It will be noticed that the ratio of the vertical to the horizontal at the point corresponding to , is The horizontal potential radiant close to the wall will be identical the vertical gradient over the planes at great distances from the wall if that is if The point / ?
on the wall corresponding to , is given by Hence the point on the wall at which the horizontal gradient equal to the normal vertical gradient is at a height equal to the total height of the wall , that is to of the total height .
As we proceed outwards from the wall at this height the horizontal gradient decreases , but at a distance from the wall not exceeding of height of the wall the potential is less than 2 per cent. smaller than would be if the horizontal gradient been equal to the normal gradient for the whole distance .
S 8 .
Case III.\mdash ; Two thin vertical walls parallel to each other rise to same height above a horizontal plane .
To find the distribution of the space between the walls .
Equnpotential Surfaces in Air Long Walls .
To simplify the calculation we shall take the walls as being two consecutive of a regular series on both sides to infinity .
Taking the where , vertical and perpendicular to the series of planes , axis along the horizontal plane , and the axis vertical through the point on the axis half way between the planes , the transformation where and are constants , being less than unity , converts the lower boundary of the atmosphere into the axis of in the plane , where Expanding the circular functions we have and If , and Thus either or , where is an integer .
If , and and increase from zero together till and arcsin If , and increases from zero to argcosh , while increases from to The distance of the walls apart is therefore , and their is a .
Hence , and the equation connecting and may be written .
The equation to the equipotential lines is therefore , a quadratic in and from which at any point , may be calculated and the reducing factor to convert readings taken at , ?
/ , into readings in the open may be found .
In drawing the equipotential curves it best to use the equation in the form .
* The somewhat more general transformation fiin sitl be in the same way throughout .
S 9 .
If is constant we have , from equation At this reduces to , and For large values of this gives the normal vertical potential gradient At it gives that is ] .
At the point on the ground half-way between the planes Thus the ratio of the vertical gradient on the ground half-way between planes to the normal vertical gradient is .
The following Table gives the values of this ratio for different values of ratio of height of planes to distance apart .
Equipotential Surfaces in Air near Long Walls .
on the Ground Midway between Two Vertical Planes for Different Ratios of Height of Planes to Distance apart .
The vertical gradient at other points on the ground between the planes is by the equation ( 17 ) above , and is tabulated below for several values of of height of the planes to distance apart .
of on the Ground between Two Vertical Planes .
These figures are sufficient to show how great is the effect of the walls on the vertical gradient on the ground between them .
They may be taken as representing with a fair degree of accuracy the vertical gradient on the ground in a street with buildings on each side of it .
S10 .
If is constant we have At this becomes Equipotential Surfaces in Air Long Walls .
is less than , this gives , and If the horizontal potential gradient at on the wall is to be equal normal vertical gradient , we must have , that is .
When the height becomes small compared to the distance apart planes , this gives the distance up the plane as times the height , found by direct calcuJation .
The following Table gives the relation between the ratio of the the planes to their distance apart and the fraction of the height at horizontal potential gradient outwards is equal to the normal potential gradient over a plane surface .
As the planes approach each the potential surfaces near sullmits become more nearly horizontal , so that the potential gradient is nearly vertical than horizontal .
S11 .
It follows from the previous work that where plane horizontal of considerable extent are not available for the determination of the vertical potential gradient in the atmosphere , observations in the hood of buildings can be utilised , value of the reducin factor calculated from the forms of the buildings in the simple cases dealt In many cases observations of the horizontal potential gradient from the walls of buildings which are not too close together may be and , if the position of the point of observation is properly chosen , horizontal gradient observed will be identical with the normal radiant over a horizontal surface .
For a long wall of a building with a roof or with a parapet , the horizontal gradient outwards should be Enhanced Series of Lines in Spectra of Alkaline Earths .
451 point near the middle of the length of the wall and at a distance up it is generally about three-quarters of the height .
The horizontal for a distance outwards not exceeding 1/ 10 the height of the wall not differ by more than 2 per cent. from the normal vertical , radiant a large horizontal area .
On the Enhcmced Series of Lines in of the Alkaline By W. M. HICKS , Sc. D. , F.R.S. ( Received May 15 , 1915 .
) The problem of the limits and numerical relations between the lines of the enhanced series of doublets in the earths has for long been a difficulty to spectroscopists .
Ritz*in 1908 gave arrangements for the Sharp series from Mg to Ra inclusive , and proposed series formulae for Ca , Sr , Ba , in which alone he had three lines from which to calculate the constants .
The absence of extra lines endered it impossible to test his formulae , but the values of the constants obtained for his formulae were quite out of hne with those of the analogous constants in other series , and produced an instinctive doubt as to whether it gave the correct relation .
It is now possible to test his limits by considering whether the denominator differences which give the observed separations have any relation to the oun or not .
The result of this consideration is definitely adverse .
In none of the three is it possible to make the differences multiples of the oun without supposing observation errors in the doublet separations which are quite inadmissible ; and even then in the cases of Ca and Ba by taking odd multiples of , which is never the case for doublets in any other known series .
There can be little doubt but that has at last settled this question by taking the Rydberg numerator constant to be in place of , thus combining in one set lines which on the old supposition would be arranged in two series , depending on Sharp and Principal sequences .
The object of the present note is the determination of the connection of these series with certain laws which have been arrived at in previous to this Society * Phys. Zeitschr vol. 16 , p. 521 .
' Phil. Trans , p. 225 ( 1914 ) .
' Phil. Trans , vol. 210 , p. 57 ( 1909 ) ; , vol. 212 , p. 33 ( 1912 ) ; , vol. 213 , p. 323 ( 1913)\mdash ; referred to in the following as ( I ) , ( II ) , and III ) respectively .

