Anniversary Meeting , Nov. 30th .
DAVIES GILBERT , Esq. President , in the Chair .
On this occasion the President delivered the following Address : Gentlemen , Having now , for the last time , to address you in reference to the oss of eminent persons sustained by the Society in the preceding year , I cannot but congratulate you on the difference between the list now read , and that which we had the misfortune to hear twelve months ago .
Several individuals of great distinction , of extensive acquirements and of splendid talents , are undoubtedly brought before us on the present occasion : but advanced age or long absence from this metropolis tend in some instances to lessen the pain we should otherwise feel on the recital of their names .
While in the former case , persons at the very head of different departments in science , of our own ages , and daily conversant with our social habits , were suddenly taken from us , leaving the higher paths of science ( as we feared at the time ) without a foot that might in future trace their windingsj and our more familiar society without that sparkling of intellect , which invigorates the understanding , and at once elevates and refines the common intercourses of life .
The individual , who unquestionably demands our first attention is Major James Rennell , taken from us in his eighty-eighth year , lamented by all those who are capable of appreciating his science , and by every one conversant with his active virtues or with the sim ?
plicity and kindness of his manners .
I have endeavoured to collect some particulars respecting this distinguished person in his early years .
Major Rennell was descended from an ancient and respectable family in Devonshire , said to be of Norman origin .
His father was a Captain in the Royal Artillery , and fell at the siege of Maestrich .
James Rennell was born at his father 's house , Upcott near Chudleigh , in Devonshire , on the 23rd of December , 1742 .
He entered on the naval service of his country at a very early age , where his spirit and exertions soon attracted the notice of Sir Hyde Parker , with whom he sailed in the Brilliant frigate to India .
After the conclusion of peace , his eager desire for active service induced him to quit the navy , and he obtained a commission in the corps of engi ?
neers belonging to the East India Company .
His zeal and ability in discharging the duties belonging to this station obtained for him the friendship of many superior officers , and especially of the great Lord Clivej and he was soon promoted to the station of Surveyor General in Bengal .
The fatigues attached to this civil employment were sufficient to exhaust the strength of any European constitution , conducted as were the surveys , with indefatigable industry , along the banks of the great rivers , periodically overflown and perpetually damp .
But these were not all : Major Rennell in encountering dangers which are inseparable from military renown , had suffered wounds so severe that he was , I believe , twice left exposed on the field of battle , and never recovered from their effects up to the latest period of his life .
These altogether compelled his return to England , and alone prevented him from attaining the highest military stations .
Retired to private life , the whole energies of his mind were direct ?
ed to seientific and literary pursuits .
We have , founded on his exer ?
tions in India j An Atlas of Bengal . ?
A Map of the Mogul Empire . ?
Marches of the Army in India . ?
A Map of the Peninsula .
But the mental powers of Major Rennell were far from being confined to one region of the world .
We have from his pen a work on the Geography of Africa .
And with a vigour of intellect that may well call to our recollection the greatest of the Roman Censors , he acquired at an advanced age a competent knowledge of Greek for consulting the early writers in that language , and gave to the world , The Gcographical System of Herodotus , including the Expedition of Darius Hystaspes to Scythiaj The Site of Babylon ; The Temple of Jupiter Ammon ; The Periplus of Africa , &amp; c ; and A Dissertation on the Locality of Troy .
The attention of this great investigator of everything connected with the surface of our globe , extended itself from mountains and plains to the waters of the ocean ; and produced a most curious in ?
vestigation of the currents prevalent in the Atlantic , and of accumulations caused by certain winds in the English Channel .
And lastly , I would mention a very ingenious mode of ascertain ?
ing distances , and connecting with their bearings the actual localities of spots in the Great Desert , by noting the average rate at which camels travel over those worlds of sand .
This is a very imperfect catalogue of the works published by Major Rennell ; and I am happy to add that several more exist in manuscript , destined , we may hope , at no distant time , to appear .
Major Rennell has been honoured by the Copley Medal from this Society ; by the Gold Medal from the Royal Society of Literaturej he was a Corresponding Member of the Institute of France j and a Member of various other Societies .
Our regret for such a man , exerting his intellectual powers with so much energy and to such useful purposes , throughout the course of a long life , and up to his eighty-eighth year , must always be strong and sincere ; but we console ourselves with the reflection that he had attained the utmost ordinary limit of human life , amidst the respect and esteem of all who knew him , and that his memory is revered .
Mr. Chenevix was undoubtedly a man of considerable ability , acquirement and industry .
We have from him seven different communications to the Philosophical Transactions : An analysis of the arseniates of copper . ?
Observations on Dr. James 's powders , with a method of preparing a similar substance in the humid way . ?
Observations and experiments upon oxygenated and hyperoxygenated muriatic acid . ?
An analysis of corundum . ?
Obser ?
vations on the chemical nature of the humours of the eye . ?
Inquiries concerning the nature of a metallic substance , under the title of Palladium . ?
On the action of platinum and mercury on each other .
In the latter years of his life , which could not have reached threescore , he appears to have abandoned chemistry , and to have fallen on speculations wholly unworthy of being noticed from this place .
The only remaining individual who has taken a direct active part in our labours , by contributing to the Transactions , is Mr. James Lewis Smithson , and of this gentleman I must be allowed to speak with affection .
We were at Oxford together , of the same College , and our acquaintance continued to the time of his decease .
Mr. Smithson , then called Macie , and an undergraduate , had the reputation of excelling all other resident members of the University in the knowledge of chemistry .
He was early honoured by an intimate acquaintance with Mr. Cavendish ; he was admitted into the Royal Society , and soon after presented a paper on the very curious concretion frequently found in the hollow of bambu canes , named Tabasheer .
This he found to consist almost entirely of silex , exist ?
ing in a manner similar to what Davy long afterwards discovered in the epidermis of reeds and grasses .
Mr. Smithson enriched our Transactions with seven other communications : ?
A chemical analysis of some calamines . ?
Account of a discovery of native minium . ?
On the composition and crystal ?
lization of certain sulphurets from Huel Boys in Cornwall . ?
On the composition of zeolite . ?
On a substance procured from the elm-tree , called Ulminc . ?
On a saline substance from Mount Vesuvius . ?
Facts relative to the colouring matter of vegetables .
He was the friend of Dr. Wollaston , and at the same time his rival in the manipulation and analysis of small quantities .
AyaQy Vepi ; y ?
e fiporouriv .
Mr. Smithson frequently repeated an occurrence with much pleasure and exultation , as exceeding anything that could be brought into competition with it , ?
and this must apologize for my introducing what might otherwise be deemed an anecdote too light and trifling on such an occasion as the present .
Mr. Smithson declared , that happening to observe a tear gliding down a lady 's cheek , he endeavoured to catch it on a crystal vessel : that one-half of the drop escaped , but having preserved the other half , he submitted it to reagents , and detected what was then called microcosmic salt , with muriate of soda ; and , I think , three or four more saline substances , held in solution .
For many years past Mr. Smithson has resided abroad , principally , I believe , on account of his health : but he carried with him the esteem and regard of various private friends , and of a still larger number of persons who appreciated and admired his acquirements .
Of gentlemen who have not taken a direct share in the labours of this Society , I would notice Mr. Henry Browne .
No one , I believe , was ever more distinguished in the important station of commanding those vessels which secure to England the commerce of nations unknown to former ages ; nor did any one more largely contribute towards introducing the modern refinements of nautical astronomy , which skilfully pursued , and under favourable circumstances , determine the place of a ship with greater accuracy , than what in the early part of the last century would have been thought amply sufficient for headlands , roadsteads , or harbours of the first importance .
And I cannot omit this opportunity of congratulating all those who addict themselves to astronomical pursuits , or who feel an interest in the perfection of geography and navigation , on the great improvements recently suggested and likely to be made in our national ephemeris $ improvements which , in part at least , I hoped to have got adopted twelve years ago : but now under more fortunate auspiceslflatter myself that they will be carried into execution , and their practical advantages cannot fail of being very great .
Retired to private life , Mr. Browne usefully amused his declining years by a continuance of his favourite pursuits ; and up to the latest period of his life he patronised , encouraged , and promoted practical astronomy .
Lieutenant-Colonel Mackenzie has , I understand , cultivated science in the East , but no particulars have corae to my knowledge .
Sir Lucas Pepys is well known to have attained considerable eminence in his profession .
The Rev. Stephen Weston will long be remembered for his learning , abilities , good-nature , and for his eccentric compositions on various subjects , and in difterent languages .
And for one at least , I may truly say , that it would gratify me to find a more permanent reputation secured for this excellent man , by a collection being given to the public of his numerous Opuscula .
The late Duke of Atholl demands also attention , not on account of his high station , but as a patron of science , and especially of that most important , interesting and rapidly improving branch of science , Geology .
Geology , deriving its birth from the continent of Europe , seems to have been drawn to this island by the genius of Dr. Hutton , and here to have grown with the vigour of youth under the fostering hands ofmany who now hear me , and also of a gentleman to whom the Duke of Atholl afforded every assistance to be derived from his large property , and his extensive influence .
The Duke of Atholl has also at once enriched and decorated his country ; and afforded an instructive example to all other proprietors of similar wastes , by clothing tracts of land , incapable of a different cultivation , with the most valuable of the pines .
His forests of larch , which have acquired maturity in the course of a single life , promise not merely to supersede the use of foreign deal , but to allow of our reserving the tree always esteemed the peculiar pride and boast of this island , for the construction of ships of war on the largest scale .
Another individual remains , whom no technicality in regard to pursuits can prevent our noticing with honour , on this occasion : whose very deportment indicated the elegance of his mind ; and the justness of whose remarks on everything connected with art , gave assurance of the perfection invariably found to exist in all subjects created by the touch of his magic pencil .
Sir Thomas Lawrence stands proudly preeminent among native artists , and perhaps among artists of the whole world , in that department to which he exclusively applied the powers of his genius : nor would , I am persuaded , the great painter of the preceding age have been unwilling to admit him as his equal in the delineation of portraits ?
not the servile copies of individual features , but poetic likenesses , where every excellence is heightened , where the mind is depicted , and where the particular person seems to embody the class of virtues , ofintellectual powers , or of amiable qualities , designating the moral order in which he is arranged .
This constitutes unquestionably a department of historical paint ?
ing not inferior , perhaps , nor even less difficult of acquirement than the others , where all is imaginary .
The name of Reynolds must , and , for various reasons , ever will stand first on the list of those who have cultivated in this country the whole extent of an art , the most refined , requiring talents the most rare , and at the same time the most delightful of all that have sprung from the human mind ? ? ?
?but that of Lawrence will be hailed by the Academy as their Spes altera , and their Decus gemellum .
I am not aware of the loss of any Fellow of the Society on our Foreign List .
Gentlemen , Your Council for the past year have awarded one of the Royal Medals to Dr. Brewster , for his various communications on Light , printed in the last volume of your Transactions .
Unable as we are to investigate the real essences of physical bodies , it is impossible nicely to discriminate their relative importance by observing the external or accidental properties they may assume : but light is so preeminent in all its relations ; as the cause of vision ; in the rapidity of its flight , or of its vibration - , in its connexion with heat 3 in its adorning everything in nature by a secondary quality ; ?that no more could be wanting to secure its place at the head ofthat class of transcendent orimponderable substances , which appear to animate the material world .
Other properties have , however , been recently discovered , not less wonderful than those that were previously known , and which promise to decide the long-agitated question between corpuscular projection and the vibration of a fluid at once inconceivably elastic and rare .
In all these discoveries Dr. Brewster has taken an ample share .
And as a public testimony of the sense entertained by the Royal Society of their importance , and of his ability and exertions , l have the honour of presenting to him the Royal Medal .
The discovery of any new elementary substance has ever been deemed an occurrence worthy of being marked by some public declaration of applause .
The ascertaining chlorine to be , in the actual state of our knowledge , one of this class , has justly been considered as among the most brilliant of Sir Humphry Davy 's achievements in chemical science .
Iodine has been added to the supporters of combustion , occupying , like oxygen and chlorine , the negative extremity of the scale in electro-chemistry .
More recently another substance , apparently intermediate between chlorine and iodine , has been derived from the same source as that yielding the latter , ?
from the water of the sea ; and from its peculiar odour denominated brome , and subsequently bromine .
An ample account of the properties distinguishing the substance may be found in a memoir by the discoverer , Mons. Balard of Montpelier , read before the Academy of Sciences , published in the Annals de Chimie , vol. xxxii .
p. 337 , and abridged in the twenty-second volume of the Quarterly Journal of Science , p. 384 .
It will be seen by referring to the Second Part of our Transactions for the present year , that Dr. Daubeny has detected bromine in various springs j and it appears that the action of this substance , on the living system , unites with its chemical qualities in associating it with iodine .
So marked and so decisive indeed are its effects , that various medical waters are conjectured to owe their beneficial quali ?
ties to the presence , in extremely minute portions , of this elementary body , unknown and unsuspected previously to the researches of M. Balard .
To him , therefore , I am directed by your Council to deliver the other Royal Medal , in testimony of the high respect entertained for his ability , industry , and skill displayed in the discovery of bromine .
The Copley and the Rumford Medals have not been awarded .
The Society next proceeded to the election of the Council and Officers for the ensuing year , when the following were declared to be the lists : ?
Council . ?
Peter Barlow , Esq. ; John Barrow , Esq. ; Wiliiam Cavendish , Esq. ; Sir Astley Cooper , Bart. ; Henry Ellis , Esq. ; Mi ?
chael Faraday , Esq. ; Colonel Fitzclarence ; Davies Gilbert , Esq. ; Captain Henry Kater ; Viscount Melville ; Sir George Murray , Bart. ; Rev. George Peacock ; Sir Robert Peel , Bart. ; A. Wilson Philip , M.D. ; John Pond , Esq. ; George Rennie , Esq. ; N. Aylward Vigors , Esq. President : His Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex , K.G. ?
Treasurer : John Wiliiam Lubbock , Esq. ?
Secretaries : Peter Mark Roget , M.D. , and John George Children , Esq.

