]\gt ; 1878 .
] Prof. J. on the uations of Circles .
417 posterior part of the fourth ventricle , forward , and at the point above-named ascends on the external edge of the medulla , and forms the commissure of the tecta lobi optici , at the base of their lonoitudinao .
] idges above described ; this commissure also forms a decussation of fibres beneath the ganglion of the trochlearis .
The anterior commissure of the brain is situated between the cerebral lobes .
The posterior commissure is situated on the anterior part of the floor of the ventricle of the optic lobe behind the third icle .
A deeper connects the region on oach sidc of the third ventricle hypoaria in front of dibulum .
Two }ransverse commissures exist in the spinal , one vcntra one The ventral longitudinal columns of the cord contain fibres of gigantic sizc , one on ench sidc ; these decussate oppositc the o of the trifacial on the floor of of the fourth ventricle ; the longit columns pass to of iloor of ventricle of the optic lobe , about terior end of the fourth vcntriclc .
The laberal columns of tJlc cord pass , and are lost outsidc the last .
IV .
On the ions of Circles econd By CASEY , LL. D. , F.E.S. , of natich in the Catholic University of 1878 .
( Abstract .
) In the year 1866 in the " " , of Irish Academy\ldquo ; paper " " On quntions of Circlcs hich collined extension of many known theorcms .
it it that the same forms of equation which arc in a plane or spherical triange bold also when the one case , or the great circles the other , are ) circles in the plane or sphere , and it } } that lled equations esented t pairs of circlcs touch given circles .
results circlcs on the ] Il extended , namcly , to conics having doublo The paper contained , in addition to theso many collateral ones on allied subjccts .
The memoir , of which I llow ve bstract , cxtellds CStllts of the paper to a of any llumbor of bidos ribod o cumscribed to a givcn cirolc .
It is ) of scribed figures , sides of the ) bc ) both on the plane and sphere , by ) .
tho ivcn Cll.clc ; 418 Prof. J. Casey on the quations of Circles .
[ May 23 , again , thess results may be still further extended to conics having double contact with a given comc .
A very large amount of geometry is embraced in paper , and many subjects of much interest are discussed , showing the great fertility of the methods of employed .
The following is an outline of extensions of known theorems which the paper contains .
If a polygon of sides , whose equations are \amp ; c. , and whose lengths are , \amp ; c. , be inscribed in a circle , the equation of tb circle is a factor in the equation , or say in and if it be on the sphere in the The equation , when the polygon consists of sides , will denote besides the a residual curve of the degree .
considerable portion of the paper is occupied with the discllssion of the properties of this curve .
More especially in the particular case ' where the residual curve is a cubic .
The following theorem may be glven as an 1nstance .
" " When the polygon is a hexagon the line , which is calleil its axis , is the satellite with respect to the cubic of each side of the hexagon , and also of its Pas 's line The properties of the inscribed polygon derived from the equations may be reciprocated , and we get tangential equations of the form giving properties of circumscribed polygons .
In this last equatio \amp ; c. , denote the angles of the polygon , and \amp ; c. , perpcndic.ulars from its angular points on any tangent to the .
The same tangcntial equation holds both for the plane and sphere .
If a polygon whose sides are , \amp ; c. . . .
, be circumscribed to a circle , cquation of the circle is a factor in the polyzomal curve 1878 .
] G. H. Darwin on the Tides of Viscous eroids .
\ldquo ; I have examined this equation at length in the special case The tetrazomal , which is of the eighth degree , breaks up into two factors .
One factor represents the circle and the square of the line gaining the points ( ) , ( o ) , the other denotes an unicurs quartic whose three double points are and the polc respect to the circle of the line these These results hold for the plane and sphere , and , \amp ; c. , denote circles as well as lines .
They are also truc for conics having double contact with ] a given conic .
Besides the { extensions of } theorems , the some theorenls which are also exlendod to conics having double contact with given conic .
Thus , ' ' if a circle be touched by ftny number of circles , \amp ; c. , and if we denote by the product of the common tangents from any circle of the systcm to all the remaining circles , then the equations of will be a factor in the ] This theorem is , I believe , one of the ost rtile in geometry .
paper contains a ] arge number of deductions from it , but ) it is far from them . .
' On the Bodily Tides of Viscous and -Elastic Spheroids , and on the Oceftn Tides 011 ) , By GEORGE H. cllow of ) idge .
Communicated by J. .
L. May 14 , 1878 .
( Abstrftct .
) Sir W. Thomson 's tion of bodily tides of elastic sphere*has gone far to overthrow the i of a .
to the earth , yet goologists are so strongly ) ssccl by enormous masses of rock have been poured ont of volcalllc vents *Phil .
Trans. , 1863 , p. 573 , an .
of 1867 , SS 733-737 and

