306 Collimator Magnets .
Thermal Expansion .
\#166 ; " Collimator Magnets and the Determination of the Earth 's Horizontal Magnetic Force .
" By C. Chree , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Kew Observatory .
Communicated by the Kew Observatory Committee of the Royal Society .
Received May 31 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1899 . .
( Abstract .
) During the last forty years , there have been examined at Kew Observatory upwards of 100 collimator magnets used in observing the horizontal force and declination .
The " constants " of these magnets\#151 ; temperature and induction coefficients , and moment of inertia\#151 ; have been determined at the Observatory , and the tables based on these determinations have served to reduce magnetic observations at a large number of the leading magnetic observatories .
The present paper deals with the data recorded in the Observatory books for the constants specified above , and with other quantities\#151 ; such as the " permanent " magnetic moment\#151 ; which are declucible from the records .
It determines the mean values of the several quantities for the instruments of the leading English makers , and investigates whether relations do or do not exist between them .
It then deduces from the records the probable errors in the values of the several quantities , proceeding on the hypothesis that the methods of determining them are correct .
It next examines , from a mathematical standpoint , the accuracy of the formulae employed in reducing horizontal force observations , and , from a physical standpoint , the possibility of differences between the quantities determined at the Observatory and the quantities actually concerned in horizontal force observations .
The various sources of uncertainty are dealt with , and an attempt is made to ascertain to what extent they may affect the values found for the horizontal force .
The results of the paper are of too technical a character to admit of their being summarized briefly in an intelligible way .
" The Thermal Expansion of Pure Nickel and Cobalt .
" By A. E. Tutton .
B.Sc. Communicated by Prof. Tilden , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received April 18 , \#151 ; Read May 5 , 1899 .
The following are the numerical experimental data of the eighteen individual determinations of the coefficients of expansion of pure nickel and cobalt , referred to in the abstract previously published ( p. 161 , supra ) .
Full explanations of the signs employed in the tables will be found in the memoir " On the Thermal Expansion of certain Sulpha tes."* # c Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 192 , p. 455 .

