]\gt ; Mr. A. J. Ellis .
On the Potential Radix .
377 1881 .
] The method which I am advocating is open to no such objection ; it is moreover rapid , allowing little time for the alteration by exposure of the surface under consideration , and it is independent of the very difficult determination of the contact angle of liquid and solid , which enters into some other methods .
At the same time the results are probably not so accurate as cou ld be obtained by the use of photography for recording the form of the drop .
I am in hopes of obtaining , by its means , results which may , in some measu .
, serve to verify the fundamental assumptions of the theory on which the value of the so-called surface tension is calculate Of the phenomena , to which I have ventured incidentally to call attention , that of the approximate constancy of the drop-depth , requires closer investigation than I have been le to glve it , as seems to oifer a very satisfactory mcans of obtalnlng a first approximat on the value of the surface tension .
In all rlments on this subject the scrupulous cleanliness so absolutely necessary renders progress slower than many would suppose , which is my excuse for presenting an investigation , which I trust ma , be found useful , though obviously incomplete .
III .
" " Postscript to the Chronological Summary of Methods of Computing Logarithms in my Paper on the Potential Radix By ALEXANDER J. ELLIS , B.A. , F.R.S. , F. S.A. Received May 18 , 1881 .
After the publication of my " " Chronological Summary of Methods of Computing Logarithms in the " " Proceedings\ldquo ; for 3rd February , 1881 ( vol. 31 , pp. 401-407 ) , Mr. Isaac , F.R.S. , kindly pointed out to me an almost unknown pamphlet by George Atwood , F.R.S. , inventor of " " Atwood 's Machine which he informs me not mentioned even by Dr. Thomas Young , in his account of Atwood .
A copy of the pamphlet is in the library of the Royal Astronomical Society , and at the request of Mr. Peter Gray , F.R.A.S. , was kindly lent to me for inspection .
The following account of this important and little known work should be inserted in my summary , on p. 403 , between 1771 , Flower , and 1802 , :\mdash ; 1786 .
Ahwood , George , ssay on the Arithmetic of Factors , applied to rious computations which occur in the practice of numbers This is essentially a method , when any number A is given , of finding factors , , such that being very nearly , of the form or , and being of the form means successive zeroes , as in the notation of my If first or wo first figures of , then we may , where the number of places in the integer of , or is the number of zeroes between the decimal point and the first significant digit .
This ation of is an anticipation the " " reciproques approches\ldquo ; of Thoman , 1867 , and Atwood 's Table of the values of is equivalent to the two tirst columns of Thoman 's Table I , and of Hoppe 's Table IV .
The number is thus reduced to the form or Taking the first case , where the reduced number is less than 1 Atwood multiplies it " " up to 1 which is a revival of Flower 's reflected rnle , with which Atwood was clearly not acquainted .
But instead of retaining the reduced number in the form , and finding the factors as Flower did , by taking excess of 9 over the corresponding digit in the number , Atwood transforms it into the form , by subtracting each digit , except the last , from 9 , and the last from 10 .
This is an anticipation of Hoppe 's artifice , 1876 .
In this case the values of in are the successive digits of themselves .
The product of the resulting factors , say , ( or in Atwood 's notation 1 .
, 1 .
, 1 .
) , were not written as a product but as , the line underIleath indicating that it is not a decimal fraction , and the position of each digit indicating the number of preceding zeroes in the corresponding factor .
The figures underlined correspond precisely to Flower 's " " line of ratios To find the mat .
of this product , Atwood observes that it is very nearly 04061 , which , however , is too large , and requires correction , being in fact the sum of the first terms of the not .
logs of the factors .
This correction he finds by assuming that to 13 places , and similarly for all smaller numbers , which determines the kind of logarithm , and then he finds the logarithms of larger numbers in his radix by resolution into factors .
Finally he tabulates only the differences or \mdash ; not .
in his Table I , which is thus identical with Hoppe 's Table III to the first 13 places .
By this table and resoIution into factors , Atwood calculates ( where consists of two digits , and is between 1 and 10 ) , and his Table 1881 .
] Mr. A. J. Ellis .
On the Potential Radix .
379 the equivalent of Hoppe 's Table II , and ( with the substitution of natnral for tabular logarithms ) of Thoman 's Table I , col .
last .
first case is therefore precisely the same as Hoppe 's method , having identical tables but a diflerent arran , .
of computations and notation .
Taking the second case , where the reduced number is greater than 1 : Atwood multiplies it " " down to 1 The process of finding the factors is precisely that of Weddle , 1845 ; Hearn , 1847 ; Thoman , 1867 ; and Wace , 1873 ; exemplified in my former paper ( vol. 31 , p. 400 ) .
The product of the factors ( 1\mdash ; 04 ) , , , is written , for which might be substituted 1\mdash ; 04061 , where is the sum of the first terms of the natural logarithms of the factors , which in this case are all negative .
Hence on calculating a table of -nat .
, which is easily done by the first case , we find the corrections .
These are given in Atwood 's Table II , which has not been iven by any subsequent writer , because Hearn and Thoman , tabular , gave the complete value of the tab .
of the factors , instead of corrections for the first term .
Hence it appears that Atwood , 1786 , redisc vered Flower 's method , 1771 , but transformed it in the manner carried out ninety years later by Hoppe , 1876 ; and not only anticipated Weddle 's method , 1845 , but showed the connexion of the two methods , as that of multiplying the reduced number " " up to 1\ldquo ; in the first case , and " " down to 1\ldquo ; in the second .
To Atwood , then , must be attributed the real discovery of these methods , their correlation , and their subordination to a general principle of " " arithmetic of factors and the merit of having calculated his tables , as he says ( p. 36 ) , " " without reference to the hyperbola , binomial theorem , or any fluxional process , by multiplication only , the elementary properties of ratios and of powers and their indices being granted ERRATA.\mdash ; The foUowing slight errors escaped correction in my former papers : vol. 31 , p. 397 , 1 .
1 , for The preparation read In Ex. 2 the preparation ; same page , 1 .
18 , for Here read In Ex. 3 ; p. 398 , 1 .
15 from bottom , for Wolframm read Wolfram ; p. 399 , 1 .
6 , read paper , by the positive numerical radix , and del 1 .
9 ; p. 405 , 1 .
9 from bottom , read supra , p. 382 ) ; p. 406 , 1 .
6 , ; ibid. , 1 .
19 from bottom , read ibid. , 1 .
17 from bottom , read Petersburg ; and 1 .
9 from bottom , read Thesaurus , and p. 409 , 1 .
last , read gives ( on p. 412 ) .
VOL. XXXII .

