]\gt ; Mr. R. .
H. M. Bosanquet on Plateau ( J. ) , For .
Mem. R.S. Sir les Couleurs accidentelles tives . .
Bruxelles 1875 .
( Alfred ) , F.R.S. The Mind Man : being a Mental Philosophy .
London ] ' The Theoly of the Division of the and the Treatment of the Musical Systems thus obtained .
Version of a Paper entitled 'On Just Intonatiom with a description of a new Instrument .
the easy Systems of Tuning other than the equal Divisions in the Octave .
By R. H. M. BOSANQUET , St. College , Oxford .
Communicated by H. J. SMITH , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the of Oxford .
Received Dec. 4 , 1872 .
Read Jan. Received November 24 , 1874 .
The modj of expressing Intervals .
In the original paper by the writer to the ogarithms were employed as the measure of intervals , as ' Proceedings , ' vol. .
p. 131 .
Theory of the Division of the Octave .
employed by others .
antages have been found , to result from the adoption of the equal temperament ( E. which is of an octave , as the unit of interval .
It is the unit to musicians , and has been found to admit of the expresthe theory of cyclical systems of formulae of the simplest The vriter therefore devised the ving ruIes for the of ratios into E. T. semitones and vice subsefound that De Morgan had given rules for the same purpose are substantially the same ( Camb .
Phil. Trans. .
p. 129 ) .
obviously depend on the form of .
The form of the first a little more accuracy than De Morgan 's .
I. To find the equivalent of a given -ratio in E. T. semitones .
, subtract , and call this the first improved value .
( ratio ) subtract of the first improved and first improved value .
Nfultiply the remninder by 40 .
We can five places in the result .
data are introduced here ; they be verified by given in Woolhouse 's tract:\mdash ; Fifth Third places are ordinarily sufficient .
Rule II .
To find the vibrations-ratio of interval giyen in E. T. semitones .
the given number add and of itself .
Divide by 40 .
The is the logarithm of the ratio required .
We can rely on fiye places result , or on six , if six are The E. T. third is 4 semitones .
The vibrations-ratio found as is the vibrations-ratio of the E. T. third to the perfect third nearly 126 : 125 .
Definitions .
s.ystems are such that all their notes can be arranged in conseries of equal fifths .
cyclical stems are not only regular , but return into a certain number of fifths .
Every such system divides the a certain number of equal intervals .
deviation from a perfect interval .
is deyiation from an E. T. interval .
Mr. R. H. M. Bosamquet on Intervals taken upwards are called positive , taken tive .
Systems are said to be of the order , positive or departure of 12 fifths is units of the system .
Intervals formed by Fifths .
When successions of fifths are spoken of , it is intended that disregarded .
If the result of a number of fifths is expressed semitones , any multiples of 12 ( octaves ) are cast out .
fifth of any system by , where is the departure of expressed in E. T. semitones , we form the following intervals others :\mdash ; Departure of 12 fifths ( , and 84 is cast out ) .
Two-fifths tone ( , and 12 is cast out ) .
Seven-fifths semitone , formed by seven fifths up , , and 48 is cast out ) .
Five-fifths semitone , formed by five fifths down , , and 36 is added ) .
The seven-fifths semitone will be denoted by ; the ffiths semitone by .
Regular Systems .
The importance of regular systems arises from the symmetry of scales which they form .
Theorem .
In any regular system fifths semitones five-fifths semitones make am exact octave , or For the departures ( from E. T. ) of the 5 seven-fifths semitones due to 35 fifths up , and those of ths 7 five-fifths semitones to 35 down , leaving 1 E. T. semitones , which form an exact octave ; or , Theorem .
In any regular system the diiference between fifths semitone and the five-fifths semitone is the departure of having regard to sigu ; or , departure of 12 fflths .
Lot be the departure of fifth of the system , then whence Theory the Division of the Octave .
Regular Oyclical Systems .
importance of regular cyclical systems ises from the infinite of modulation in eyery direction which is possible in such when properly arranged ; whereas in non-cyclical systems modulations are liable to be impossible , owing to the demand for outside the material provided .
In a regular cyclical system of the order the difference the seyen-fifths semitone and five-fifths semitone is umts of or units .
the definition of order units ) , the proposition from Th. This proposition , taken with Th. , enables us to ascertain the of divisions in the octave in systems of any order , by introducing consideration that each semitome must consist of an integral number The principal known systems are here enumerated : \mdash ; Theorem .
In any regular cyclical system , if the octave be cTivided into equal interyals , and be the order of the system , the depnrture of each fifth of the system is E. T. semitones .
For departure of 12 ffiths units by definition and the unit E. T. semitones ; Theorem .
If , in a system of the order , the octaye be divided into Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on the equal intervals , is a multiple of 12 , and is the ullits in the fifth of the system .
Let be the number of units in the ffith .
Then ; and is an integer by hypothesis ; whence the proposition .
Cor. From this proposition we can deduce correspondin and .
It is useful in the investigation of systems of the higher Casting out multiples of 12 , where necessary , from and , we following relations between the remainders:\mdash ; Theorem .
If a system divide the octave into equal total departure of all the fifths of the system E. T. is the order of the system .
For by Th. ; whence or the departure of fifths semitones .
This gives rise to a curious mode of deriving the different Suppose the notes of an E. T. series arranged in order of proceeding onwards indefinitely , thus : and so on .
Let a regular system of fifths start from positive , then at each step the pitch rises further from E. T. return to by sharpening an E. T. note .
Suppose that is sharpened one B. T. semitone , so as to then the return may be effected at the first in 5 fifths , at the second in 17 fifths , at the third in 29 fifths ; and so on .
Thus we obtain the primary positive systems .
Secondary systems may be got by sharpening semitones ; and so on .
If the fifths are negative , the return may be effected by a semitone in 7 , 19 , 31 .
fifths ; we thus obtain the tive systems ; or by two semitones , by secondary negative systems ; and so on .
Theory of the Division of the Octave .
instructive illustration may be made as follows ; it requires too dimensions for convenient reproduction here : off on the axis of abscissae the equal temperament series in order as above , taking about 10 complete periods .
If the distances single terms are centimetre , this will take 1 in length , from the origin on the left .
a unit for the E. T. semitone of departure , say 1 decimetre .
a series of lines parallel to the axis of abscissae , at distances repreintegral numbers of E. T. semitones , both above and below .
parallel to the axis of ordinates , straight lines through the points the E. T. notes .
on the intersections the names of the E. T. notes they represent .
notes on the positive ordinate of are , and so pair separated by 1 decimetre , and the notes on the negative of are we them join the on the left hand of the axis of abscissae to all the 's on the figure , except , of course , those on the axis , we obtain a graphic representation of all the systems whose orders are The order is represented by lines drawn to the 's in the line above , the by the lines drawn to the 's in the line illustration brings specially into prominence the singularity of systems , as all the multiples of any system lie on the same line with it , and the representation fails to give all the notes of systems .
Multiple systems are such that the number of divisions in the octave such system is a multiple ( k ) of the number of divisions other system .
systems have not been as yet practically applied .
systems are not strictly regular ; for though their fifths are all yet they do not form one continuous series , but several .
They strictly cyclical , .
they divide the into cqual intervals .
Theorem .
A multiple system , , may be regarded being of order where is a system of order being a system of ordel .
is a multiple of 12 ; also is a multiple of 12 , which is the condition that the system of order This is useful in the investigation of systems of the higher orders .
is a multiple of 12 , the system is a muItiple of the E. T. , and of zero .
the illustration described under Th. .
the notes of a multipIe are the same as those of system , until the latter is comThe rest of the tion consists simply of the same notcs Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on repeated ovel .
and over again .
To obtain the rest of the have to change the starting-point .
On the whole , we may regard the system as consisting ferent systems , having starting-points distant from each of the unit of the system It follows immediately that the system is of the krth every unit of the system there are units of system ; and units of system there are units of system Any system , when is not a prime , can be regarded as a system .
Thus the system of 59 is of order ; 118 consequently system of the 14th order , in which point of view it is of no interest casting out the 12 from the order , it may be also regarded as un system of the 2nd order , in which point of view it of interest .
omnation of in Positive oend Negative Systems .
The departure of the perfect third is .
Hence systems ( where the fifth is ) form their thirds in accordance the ordinary tion of music .
For if we take 4 negative have a third with negative departure which can represent the departure of the perfect third .
Thus third to , or four ffiths up from , in accordanoe with musicians .
Posibive systems form their thirds by 8 fifths down ; for their are of the form , and 8 fifths down give the .
Thus the third of should be , which is inconsistent usage .
Hence positive systems require a separate Helmholtz proposed a notation for this purpose , which , however , unsuitable for use with written music .
The following notation is adopted for positive systems in general ; it is not intended to be to any ons system , like Helmholtz 's In fact it may , on occasions , used even for negatiye systems .
otation for Positive Regular Systems .
The notes are arranged in series , each containing 12 fifths , from to .
These may be called duodenes , adopting a term introduced Ellis .
The duodene which contains the standard , is called the unmarked duodene .
distinction is made in these series between such notes and signs refer only to the E. T. nots from which the note in ; the place in the series of fifths is determined by the Theory of the Division of the Octave .
series to the right , each note of the next 12 fifths is the mark / mark of elevation , drawn upwards in the writing .
These notes ion on to the mmarked duodene as is 12 fifths to the right of , and the interval / is the deparof 12 fifths .
next duodene to the right is affected with the which on to the last as before:\mdash ; in the same way , we have notes aflected with such marks to the unmarked duodene , and let it be continued to the left ; notes in the next duodene on the left are affected with the mark of depression ) , draw downwards in the direction of writing .
The with the unmarked duodene will be junction on the left will in the same way , we have such marks as is a major third determined by eight fflths down in the whole have the departure from ths E. T. note Notation pliccible to all Regular ystems , rative as as Positiv As this notation simply consists of a tion of position in a series of fifths , it may bo applied to all lems , or negative ; but , as it is not commonly needed for negative systems , is not generally applied to them .
Formation of Harmonic Sevenths Positiv !
a ative The harmonic seyenth is interval whose ratio is 7 : 4 .
It affords a combination , free from beats .
Ihe departurs of the harmonic seventh from the note hich gives the minor venth is ( Rule Helmholtz observes that his system of just intonation affords an approxi .
R. H. M. Bosanquet on the .
mation to the harmonic seventh .
In fact , if we form a seventh fifths down in positive systems fifth , we obtain negative departure , which can approximately represent monic seventh : represents such an interval .
Mr. Ellis has observed ( Boy .
Soc. Proc. 1864 ) that the system , which is negative , affords a good approximation to the seventh .
In fact , if we form a seventh by 10 fifths up in negative fifth , we obtain a note with negative departure , can approximately represent the harmonic seventh .
Concords of Regular and Regular Cyclical Systems .
These considerations permit us to calculate the departures and of comcords in the various regular and regular cyclical systems .
is , however , one quantity which may be also conveniently taken consideration in au cases , .
the departure of 12 fifths of the We will call this , putting We have then the ving Table of the characteristic quantities the more important systems hitherto known .
The value of the ordinary comma is 21560 .
It is with the values of , and if introduced in its place in the Table give rise to a regular non-cyclical system , lying between the system and the positive system of perfect thirds , the condition of which be that the departure of 12 fifths comma .
A few systems of the higher orders , which some interest , will be given separately .
Theory of the Division of the Octave .
may be made as follows , which shows on inspection all involved in the above Table , and the properties of any other introduced into it .
axes of abscissae and ates , and off on both distances tenths of E. T. semitones\mdash ; for ordinary purposes 10 inches semitone answers best ; for Lecture scale , 1 metre to the E. T. axis of ordinates set off points representing the values in of the Table , and corresponding values for any other system Through each of these points rule a straight line parallel to of abscissae .
the axis of abscissae set off points representing the values 31174 .
Rule lines through these parallel to the axis of ordiThes ' abscissae represent respectively perfect thirds and perfect lines inclined to the axis of abscissae at angles and These give , by their intersections with the lines of the different systems , the thirds and sevenths respectively .
lines inclined to axis of abscissae angles and These give , by their intersections with the lines of the different systems , the thirds and sevenths respectively .
errors of the thirds and sevenths are the perpendicular disbnnces intersections which determine them from the of perfect and sevenths already constructed .
Regular Oyclical Systems , to find the number of Units in }Interval in the Scale .
be the number of units in the seven-fifths semifone , then to see that will be integral if the .
conrlition is ( Th. iu is ltiple of 12 .
hence , sting out is of 12 .
can now determine the remaining intervals in terms of Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet on the The 's in negative systems are , of course , positive quantities .
Employment of Positive Systems in Rule for thirds.\mdash ; If we write down one of the duodenes of the and remember that positive systems form their thirds by 8 fifths we have the rule : The four accidentals on the left in any duodene of the notation maior thirds to the four notes on the extreme right in the same All other notes have their major thirds in the next duodene below .
are major thirds .
Use of the otation with Jfusical Symbols .
It is an essential point in this notation that it can be used with symboIs .
The ] lowing example shows the major and minor chords the interval used ffi the harmonic seventh : The first chord is the triad ; the second involves monic seventh ; the fourth crotchet gives the minor common chord ; the first chord of the second bar is the sharp sixth , rendered smooth by employment of the approximnte ]armonic seventh interval / The of positive systems is presupposed with this unless the is expressly stated .
Theory of the Division of the Octave .
as this can be played on the harmonium hereafter Principle of Symmetrical Arrangement in Regular Systems .
we place the E. T. notes the order of the scale , and set ofl the of the notes of any regular system at right angles to the E. T. sharp departures up and flat departures down , we obtain the posiof .
what may be caled a symmetrical arrangement .
distances of the E. T. notes from the starting-point are abscissae , departures ordinates .
Positive subjoined is a symmetrical arrangement of the notes of enharmonic organ ( p. 402 ) .
It is selected as not being too for reproductio1l , as being of historical interest , and as illustrathe nature of the difficulty caused by the distribtltion of such systems separate key-boards .
Each of the single vertical steps represents the of one ffith .
property of symmetrical arrangements , from which they derive principal importance , is that , position being determined only by of interval , the notes of a combination given intervals always the same form , whatever be the key or the actual expresS , as before , the number of E. T. semitones , which is now by simple integers , and the number of departures of fifths , our ordinate , by a coefficient attached to .
Thenwe have only the values of the different intervals to their respect to any note taken as origin .
the third is , or four steps to the right and eight down the ffith is , seven steps to the right one up ; minor third is three to the right and nine up so notes are omitted from the otherwise complete series , ; notice the number of otherwise complete chords which their destroys .
over three Key-boards.\mdash ; As an example of the effect of this , that the notes of the chord of a minor are all present ; but they so that the third and fifth are on different Negahve to the enunciation of the principle of symmetric , positions should be taken lower for negative systems the series of fifths ; but it is more convenient positive form in negative systems as well .
coordinates of intervals become different\mdash ; the third is , the minor third Theory of the Division of the Octave .
of Principle of Symmetrical Arrangement to a " " Generalized \ldquo ; for Regular Systems .
has been constructed , on the principle of ' ' symmetrical in the foUowing manner:\mdash ; is taken inches horizontally ( in ordinary key-boards the inches ) .
This is divided into 12 spaces , each inch broad .
called the 12 principal divisions of the octave .
A horizontal the positions of an E. T. series where it crosses them all .
keys are then placed at vertical and horizontal distances from the line corresponding to their departures , on the supposition that the is positive .
departure of 12 fifths up corresponds to a horizontal displacement inches from the player , and a ] acement of 1 inch up .
displacements are divided equally among the fifths to which they regarded as due , .
the displacement of with respect to is back and inch up ; so of with respect to , of with respect and so on .
only 3 inches of each key are thus exposed on a , yet keys are all made to overhang inch , and thus the tangible length of key is inches .
accompanying figure ( p. 404 ) shows a small portion of the keyon a scale of half the real size .
keys are each inch , and their centres are inch apart .
is thus inch free between the adjacent surfaces of each pair of and inch ogether between the two keys which rise on each side given key .
This is of importance ; , in the ohord with the right hand , the first finger has to reach between the overhanging keys in the five principal divisions which have\ldquo ; accidental\ldquo ; names are black , the rest white .
are seven keys in each principal the seven 's are from , the unmarked in the middle .
Thus are 84 keys in each .
The Ieey-board colltrols an which contains the system of 53 .
of the Positive Systcm of Perfect to the " " Generaliz Key-board\ldquo ; intonation ) .
thirds , such as , are perfect , and the fifths flat by quantity which the ear , we the system here menHelmholtz makes a mistake in describing it ( ' Die Lehre von ndmlgen , ' ed. 3 , p. 495 ; he supposes are instead of flat by the is easy to see from the that this is a mist notation of positiv , systems is applicable without dization .
of the Division of the Octave .
It is required to find rules of identification for passing division of the octave to another .
system of 53 the notation of positive systems becomes tions :\mdash ; in adjoining principal divisions and be so admit of identification ( .
a high and a low ) , they the same if the sum of the elevation- and marks ; the Iower of the divisions is black ( accidental ) , then the sum marks of identical notes can only be proved by enumeration of a case in each pair of diviThis enumeration is made in the writer 's original paper .
It is on the following principles:\mdash ; that the 6-fifths semitone is 4 units ( scheme following Th. that is 4 units , whence or , again , ( is 4 units , identities .
Application of the System of 53 to the " " Generalized Key-board.\ldquo ; harmonium has been constructed which is arranged as follows:\mdash ; note is taken as the first note of the series , and receives the number 1 .
Then is 4 , and the remaining numbers can by the rules for the identifications in the system of 53 given number of notes at the top of the key-board are thus identical with notes the adiacent principal divisions on the right at .
These permit the infimte freedom of which is the characteristic of cyclical systems ; for in moving on the key-board we can , on arriving near the top , change the on to identical notes near the bottom , and so proceed further in direction , and vice versed .
to be noted that , in positive systems , displacement upwards or on the key-board takes pJace most readily by moduIation related major minor keys\mdash ; not , as has been commonIy only by modulation round the circles of fifths .
In negative on the ] acements t ] only by modulations latter type .
of of ll8 to the " " -board.\ldquo ; 5-fifths semitone is here 9 units , and the 7-fifths semitone is 11 The major tone ( 2-fifths tone ) is consequently20 , and the minor ( 10-fifths tone ) is 18 .
Hence he notcs in the successive principal are alternately odd and even , and the identifications lie in alterThese are not here further investigated , as no practical been made of the system .
Mr. R. H. M. Boganquet on the If , . . . .
It would be possible to construct a key-board on the explained , which would give complete control over the notes of of 118 .
A portion of such a key-board would be practically guishable from one tuned to the positive system of perfect the error of the thirds of the system of 118 is too small to by the ear .
Application of the egative System of Perfect Thirds to the " " Generalized -board.\ldquo ; If the thirds , such as , are made perfect , and the fifths we have the mean-tone system .
The forms of scales and tive systems are different from those in positive systems .
very easy to play , and the chords also .
It is expected that tion may prove of practical importance .
Following the scale of unmarked naturals on the plan , we can the nature of the fingering .
It is the same as that of the gorean scale with the system of perfect fifths .
The tones are all tomes , and the semitones both 5-fifths semitones .
Application of the Negative System of 31 to the " " Generalized -board.\ldquo ; The fifths are a little better than in the last case , thirds 00783 sharp .
The only diiference in the employment system is that the arrangement is cyclical .
The tones all five units , semitones of three .
The Investigation of Oycles of the Higher Orders\mdash ; the new and others .
The system of 301 is of interest , as combining the tolerably good positive cyclical system with the representation accurately to three places by means of rithms .
This lately used , in particular by Mr. Ellis , for appears to be of some interest to investigate generally higher orders do represent either of the systems with perfect with what degree of accuracy they do so .
irst , with respect to positive systems .
If a system of the be a close approximation to the system of perfect thirds , then ( the departure of its third ) approximate in value to ; uearly , or Theory of the Division of the Octave .
when we have the system of 118 , which aifords the closest to what is required of any cyclical system known hitherto , of its third being00127 .
to Th. , it is easy to see that no other even system of an below the 24th can aiford a better approximation ; for the diflers from the value given by the above condition by little unity .
Its multiple is always of the right order ( Th. ) ; therefore be no other system of the right order within l digits either way , and the deviation of the value given by the cannot amount to 12 digits till near the 24th order ; we thereourselves to systems of uneven orders .
out 's from , we can take the remainder as purposes of the search:\mdash ; coincidence at the 11th order is the closest so far ; and it is to see , by considerations analogous to those above , that no subsesystem can aflord another till a much higher order is renched .
the 11th order , then , we have ; is a system of the 11th order , as shown by its giving inder by 12 ( Th. iii the third of this system , and taking seven we have : Departure of perfect third Departurs of third of Error 0000044 sharp .
five places bobh thirds are re by intervals of this system -ill furnish us with simple numerical which represent with great accuracy the intervals of the perfect have ( see the section on the number of units in any interval ) 7-ffiths semitone units , -fifths semitone units ; On the of the Division of the Ocfave .
whence we can deduce the remaining interYals .
semitones suggest the following curious derivation of this Referring to the Table of characteristic ntlmbsrs , we notice errors of the thirds of the systems of 53 and 65 are nearly opposite .
The system of 53 is derived on the assumption that the of the semitones is .
Cor and that of 65 on the for the same ratio ; taking , then , an intermediate ratio , system of 118 , which has very good thirds .
But if we take intermediate ratio in the ving manner , the new system of 643:\mdash ; Reducing the fractions ' to a common denominator , we , or doubling , ; and if we take the intermediate ratio get the system of 643 , by the formula , derived from Regular Ihe systems of the fifth order are not particulally good ; 289 , then 301 .
They derive their interest from the rithmic of 301 .
Negative Systems.\mdash ; The condition for the excellence of the negative systems is that nearly , or nearly .
Searching as before , we find for order ; and 205 is a system of order Comparin thirds , Departure of perfect third Departure of third of Error 0000373 flat .
The following is a resume of the properties of these higher

