An improved method of dividing Astronomical Circles and other Instruments .
By Capt. Henry Kater .
Communicated by Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. Read May 5 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 419 .
] Although the author is most ready to admit the accuracy of Mr. Troughton 's method of dividing , which was described in our Transactions for the year 1809 , and by which the mural circle at Greenwich has been divided , it appeared to him that some improvement might be made in regard to simplicity and facility of execution .
The general principle of the method here described by Capt. Kater is , in fact , the same as that of the beam compass ; but his apparatus , instead of having points like the beam compass , has two micrometer microscopes adjustable to different distances , as aliquot parts of an arc or line to be divided .
For the purpose of marking on the surface of the instrument any assumed interval between the microscopes , certain thin pieces of small brass , carrying dots , are employed , with a clamp for fixing them to any part of the limb , and with proper screws for adjusting them to any precise position .
In addition to these , which are adapted for finding aliquot parts of the circle under division , the apparatus is provided with a cutting point of the usual construction , and a third microscope fixed always in the same position , for the purpose of observing a certain line first laid down as a permanent point of reference , and for watching the performance of the cutting-point , while it marks the successive intervals , determined by means of the two adjustable microscopes .
As a specimen of the method in which this apparatus is to be used , the author describes the series of divisions and subdivisions which he thinks most convenient in a circle of two feet diameter .
He first divides into five parts of 72 ?
each .
At the same time that the fixed microscope is kept steadily over the original line of reference , two adjustable dots are placed , by estimation , at the distance of 7 2 ?
from each other , and in such a position with reference to the cutting-frame as not to interfere with its motion .
The two adjustable microscopes having next been placed so that their wires exactly correspond with these dots , the circle is made to revolve so* that the second dot shall come under the first microscope when a third dot is to be placed under the second microscope ; and in the same manner a fourth and a fifth dot in succession , till the fifth interval can be compared with the distance between the microscopes , when the first dot should be found to correspond exactly with the second microscope : if it be otherwise , the difference must be measured by the micrometer ; and the distance between the two micrometers , originally assumed at 720 , must be corrected by one fifth part of the error so found , and must subsequently be ascertained to be correct , by a careful repetition of the same operation of the adjustable dots .
When the fifth interval has thus been made accurately to correspond with that between the adjustable microscopes , the original point of reference is then to be returned to its position under the fixed microscope , and the divisions are to be marked in succession as the series of dots are made to appear under the wires of the adjustable microscopes , which are now known to be accurately 72 ?
from each other .
The next step taken is to divide each of these intervals into three parts of 24 each , and again trisect into parts of 8 ? .
These , by repeated bisection , are reduced to half degrees ; and these again , by trisection , are divided into spaces of 10 ' each .
In the performance of the latter steps of this subdivision , the author suggests the periods when it may be found convenient to bisect some larger odd number of divisions , instead of taking a single one for bisection , on account of the interference of the microscopes with each other ; and he takes care to mention such other precautions as may not immediately occur to artists in the employment of a new apparatus , and to delineate accurately all those parts which might not be thoroughly understood by a mere verbal description .

