VII .
" On Bromphenylamine and Chlorphenylaimine .
" By E. T. MILLS .
Communicated by Dr. IIOFMANN .
Received Jiily 24 , 1860 .
Nitrophenylamine , when prepared from dinitrobenzol ( i. e. by the indirect method ) , differs in so many respects from the isomeric base which is obtained from phenyl-compounds ( i. e. by the direct method ) , that chemists have distinguished these two bodies as alphaand beta-nitrophenylamine *-Bromphenylamine and chlorphenylamine have hitherto been produced only by the action of potash upon bromnisatin and chorisatin , the indirect method , by which they were originally obtained by Dr. Hofmann ; it appeared therefore of some interest to ascertain whether the bodies generated directly from compounds of phenylamine would exhibit differences in their properties similar to those which distinguish alphaand beta-nitrophenylamine .
With the view of deciding this question experimentally , I have submitted acetylphenylamide to the action of bromine and chlorine , in the hope of thus forming directly from phenylamine the brominated and chlorinated compounds in question .
Action of Bromine on Acetylphenylamide .
A cold aqueous solution of acetylphenylamide , when agitated with bromine gradually added in small quantities until the yellow colour imparted to the liquid no longer disappears , furnishes a crystalline compound difficultly soluble in cold , but easily recrystallizable from boiling water .
The substance consists chiefly of monobrominated acetylphenlylamide ( C , H8I Br NO ( C2= H30 ) N , which is however invariably mixed with small quantities of dibromirnated acetylphenylamide ( C6 , 13 Br2 ) ( C , H7Br2NO=(C21H30 ) N. HI have not been able to find a method of separating these two bodies perfectly .
The brominated compound is readily attacked by potash .
On distilling the mixture , the vapour of water carries over a volatile body which solidifies in the condenser into beautiful acicular crystals , acetate of potassium remaining in the retort .
The solidified distillate was purified by recrystallization from boiling water , and submitted to analysis .
Both the combustion of the base itself and the platinum-determination of the beautiful goldenyellow platinum-salt proved this body to be bronmphenylamine ( C6 H1 Br ) CcH6BrN= H }N .
In its appearance , odour , and taste , as likewise in its deportment with acids and with solvents generally , the brominated base obtained from acetylbromophenylamide resembles perfectly the bromphenylamine produced from bromisatin , a specimen of which I obtailed from Dr. IHofmann 's collectioni .
There is only one point in which a slight difference was observed .
Both compounds are capable of crystallizing either in needles or in wyell-definied octahedra , the former being generally obtainied from watei , and the latter from alcohol .
The bromiphenylanine , obtained from the acetvl-compounid , appears to be more inclined to crystallize in needles than in octahedra .
Circunmstances have prevented me from enitering into an examination of the products of decomposition of the two bronmphenylamines ; and the question whether these two bodies are really identical , or similarly related as the two nitro-compounids , must be decided by further experiments* .
Action of Chlorine on Acetylphenylamiide .
The phenomaeila observed in the actioni of chlorine on a cold saturated solutionl of the phenyl-compould are perfectly siimilar to those presented in the correspondling reaction with bromine .
A crystalline compound immediately separates from the solution ; as soon as the crystals cease to augment , the current of chlorine is interrupted .
Washed with cold , and once recrystallized from boiling water , the chlorinated body is found to be nearly perfectly pure moinochlorinated acetylphenylamaide C8 118 CN O=C I2 30 } N , which , when distilled with potash , furnishes abundance of chlorphenylamine , resembling in a marked mannier the chlorphenylamine obtained by the action of potash npoii chlorisatinl .

