]\gt ; 134 Lord Rayleigh .
[ Mar. 23 , his giving no means of saturating the gases with aqueous vapour .
He further measures his pressures to of a millimetre , His ratio for the volumes is given as or only of the difference from exactly of that found by the above-described experiments .
II .
" " On the Densities of the Principal Gases By LORD RAYLEIGH , Sec. .
Received March 4 , 1893 .
In former communications*I have described the arrangements by which I determined the ratio of densities of oxygen and hydrogen .
For the purpose of that work it was not necessa1y to know with prec.ision the actual volume of gas weighed , nor even the pressure at which the containing vossel was filled .
But I was desirous before leaving the subject of ascertaining not merely the relative , but also the absoIute , densities of more important gases , that is , of comparing their weights with that of an equal volume of water .
To effect this it was necessary to weigh the globe used to contain the gases when charged with water , an operation not quite so simple as at first sight it appears .
And , further , in the corresponding work upon the gases , a precise absolute specification is required of the temperature and pressure at which a filling takes place .
To render the former weighings availatlle for this purpose , it would be necessary to determine the errors of the barometers then employed .
There would , perhaps , be no great in doing this , but I was of opinion that it would be an improvement to use manometer in direct connexion with the globc , without the intervention of the atmosphere .
In the latter nner of working , there is a doubt as to the time required for full establishment of equilibrium of pressure , especially when the through the taps are partially obstructed by grease .
When the directly connected manometel is employed , there is no tempta to hurry from fear of the entrance of air diffusion , and , ( Note A ) , the time actually required for the establishment of equilibrium is reatly diminished .
With respect to ture , also , it was hought better to avoid all further questions by the globe with ice , as in 's original determiDations .
It is true that this procedure involves a subse clcaning and of the globe , by which the errors of weighing are considelably augmented ; but , as it was not to expcriment ther with ydrogen , the objection was of less force .
the case of the hcavier * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc Februal.y , 1888 ; ) , 1892 .
On the of Principal Gases .
135 gases , unsystematic errors of weighing are less to be feared than doubts as to the actual temperature .
In order to secure unsystematic racter of these errors , it is necessary to wash and wipe the working globe after an exhaustion in the same manner as after a filling .
The dummy globe ( of equal external volume , as required in 's method of weighing gases ) 1leed not be wiped merely to secure symmetry , but it was thought desirable to do so before each weighing .
In this way there vould be no tendency to a progressive change .
In wiping the globes the utmost caxe is required to avoid removing any loosely attached grease in the neighbourhood of the tap .
The results to be given later will show that , whefher the worki11g globe be full or empty , the relative ghts of the two globes can usually be recovered to an accuracy of about milligramme .
As in the former papers , the resuIts were usually calculated by comparison of each " " full\ldquo ; weight with the mean of the immediately preceding and following empty weights .
The balance and the arrangements for weighing remained as already described .
I%e Manometer .
The arrangements adopted for the measurement of pressure .
must be described in some detail , as they offer several points of novelty .
The apparatus actually used would , indeed , be more accurately spoken of as a gauge , but it would be easy so to modiy it as to fit it for measurements extending over a small range .
The object in view was to avoid certain defects to which ordinary barometers liable , when applied to absolute measurement 8 .
Of these three especially may be mulated:\mdash ; is to be sure that the vacnum at the top of mercury is suitable for the purpose . .
No measurements of a length can be regarded as satisfactory in which diiferent methods of reading are used for the two extremities . .
There is necessarily some uncertainty due to irregular refraction by the walls of the tube .
The apparenb level of the may deviate from the real position . .
To the above may be added that the accurate observation of the barometer , as used by Regnault and of bis successors , requires the use of a etometer , an expensive and llot always satisfactory instrument .
The guiding idea of the present apparatus is the actual application ot a measaring rod to the upper and lower mercury snrfaces , ed so as to be vertically superposed .
The rod AA , fig. 1 , is ol ( 7 1nm .
in diameter ) , pointed below B. At the upper end , , it Lord Rayleigh .
bIar .
FIG. 1 .
at level of mercury into so ] of tcrntin ) in a similar to at , and , like it , cted d ) .
The coincidence of these points with their eflccted in the On the of ' ) surfaces , is observed with the aid of lenses of about 30 mm. focnl held in position upon the wooden framework of the apparatus .
It is , of course , independent of any refrnction which the tlbe may exercise .
The yerticality of the line joining the points is tested without difficulty by a plumb-line .
The upper and lower chambers formed from tubing of the same nleter ( about 21 mm. internal ) .
The upper communicates a , with the Toppler , by means of which a suitable vacuum can at any time be established and tested .
In ordinary use , stands permanently open , but its introduction was found useful in the preliminary arrangements and in for leaks .
The connexion between the lower chamber and the vessel in which the pressure is to be verified takes place through a side tube , F. The greater part of the column of mercury to the pressure is due is contained in the connecting tube , of about 3 mm. internal diameter .
The temperature is taken by thermometer whose bulb is situated near the middle of .
Towards the close of operations the more sensitiye parts are protected by a packing of tow or cotton-wool , held in position between two wooden boards .
The anterior board is provided with a suitable glass window , through which the thermometer may be read .
It is an essential requirement of a manometer on present plan that the suring rod pass air-tiglJt from the upper and chambers into ) atmosphere .
To effect this the glass tubing is drawn until its diameter is not much than that of the rod .
The joints are then made by short lengths of thick-walled india-rubber , wired on and drowned externally in mercury .
vessels for holding the mercury are shown at I , K. There is usually no difficulty at all in making perfectly tight joints between glass in this manner ; but in the present case some trouble WftS experienced in consequence apparently of imperfect approximation between the iron and the mercury .
At one time it was found necessary to supplement the mercury with ] .
When is once obtained , there seems to be no tendency to deterioration , and the condition of things is under constant observation by means of the The distance between the points of the rod is determined under microscopes by comparison with a standard scale , before the ratus is put together .
As the rod is held only by { he rubber connexions , there is no fear of its length being altered by stress .
The adjURtment of the mercury ( distilled in a yacuum ) to the right level is effected by means of tube of black rubber , ter1ninating in the reservoir N. When the suPply of mercury to the manometer is a little short of what is needed , the connexion the reservoir is cut ofl by a pinch-cock at , and the fine adjubtnlcnt Lord Rayleigh .
[ Mar. 23 , continued by squeezing the tube at between a pair of hinged boards , gradually approximated by a scre .
This plan , though apparently rough , worked perfectly , leaving nothing to be desired .
It remains to explain the object of the vessel shown at Q. In the early trials , when the rubber tube was connected directly to , the gradual of the mercury surface , which it seems impossible to avoid , threatened to interfere with the setting at B. By means of , the mercury can be discharged from the measuring chambers , and a fresh surface constituted at as well as at C. The manometer above described was constructed by my assistant , Mr. Gordon , at a nominal cost for ; and it is thought that the same principle may be applied with advantage in other investigations .
In cases where a certain latitude in respect of pressure is necessary , the measuring rod might be constructed in two portions , sliding upon one another .
Probably a range of a few millimetres could be obtained without interfering with the india-rubber connexions .
The length of the iron rod was obtained by comparison under microscopes with a standard bax divided into millimetres .
In terms of the length at C. is mm. It remains to reduce to standard millimetres .
Mr. Chaney has been good to make a comparison between and the iridio-platinum standard metre , 1890 , of the Board of Trade .
From this it appears that the metre bar is at C. mm. too long , so that the true distance between the points of the iron rod is at C. mm. Connexions with Pump and Manometer .
Some of the details of the process of filling the globe with gas under standard conditions will be best described later under the head of the particular gas ; but the general ement and the connexions with the pump and the manometer are common to all .
They are sketched in fig. 2 , in which represents the globe , the inverted bell-glass employed to contain the enveloping ice .
} connexion with the rest of the apparatus is by a slJort tubc of thick rubber , carefully wired on .
The tightness of these joints was always tested with the aid of the Toppler , the leading to the gasgenerating apparatus being closed .
The side tube at leads to the vacuum chamber of the manometer , while that at leads to the pressure chamber B. The wash-out of the tubes , and in some cases of the generator , was aided by the Toppler .
lVhen this was judged to be complete , was again closed , and a yacuum made in the parts still connected to the pump .
would then be closed , and the actual filling commenced by opening , and finally On the l)ensities of the Gases .
the tap of the globe .
The lower chamber of the manometer was now in connexion with the globe , and through a regulating tap ( not shown ) with the gas-generating apparatus .
By means of the ToppIer vacuum in the manometer could bc carried to any desired point , But with respect to this a remark must be made .
It is a feature of the method employed* that the exhaustions of the globe are carried to such a point that the weight of the residual gas ) be neglected , thus eliminating errors due to a second manometer reading .
There is no difficulty in attaining this result , but the delicacy of the Toppler employed as a gauge is so great that the residual gas still admits of tolerably accurate measurement .
Now in exhausting the head of the manometer it would be easy to carry the process to a point much in excess of what is necessary in the case of the globe , but there is evidently no advantage in so doing .
The best results will be obtained by carrying both exhaustions to the same degree of perfection .
At the close of the .
the pressure has to be adjusted to an exact value , and it might appear that the double adjustment required ( of and of mercury ) would be troublesome .
Such not * Due to von Jolly Lord Rayleig [ lIar .
23 , found to be case .
After alittle practice the manometer could be set satisfactorily without too great a delay .
When the pressure was nearly sufficient , the regulating tap was closed , and equilibrium allowed establish itself .
If more gas was then required , the tap could be opened momentarily .
The later adjustments were effected by the application of heat or cold parts of the connecting tubes .
At the close , advantage was taken of the gradual rise in the temperature which was usually met with .
The pressure being just short of what was required , and being closed , it was only necessary to wait until the point was reached .
In no case was reading considered satisfactory when the pressure changing at other than a very slow rate .
It is believed that the comparison between the state of at ] top and at the bottom of the manometer could be effected with very accuracy , and this is all that the method requires .
At the moment when the pressure was judged to be right , the tap of ) globe was turned , and the temperature of the manometer was read .
The vacuum was then verified by the Toppler .
The lWeights .
The object of the investigation being to ascertain the ratio of densities of water and of certain gases under given , the absolute values of the weights employed is evidently a matter of indifference .
This is a point which I think it desirable to emphasise , because .
Jolly , in his , in many respects , excellent work upon this subject , ibutes a discrepancy between his final result for oxygen and that of nault to a possible variation in the standard of eight .
On the same ground we may omib to allow for the buoyancy of the weights as used in air , since only the variations of buoyancy , due , for example , to barometer , could enter ; and these affect the result so little that they may fely be neglected .
But , while the absolute values of the weights are of no consequence , their relative values must be known with great precision .
The vestigation of these over the large range required ( from a kilogl.smme to a centigramme ) is a laborious matter , but it presents nothing special for remark .
The weights quoted in this paper are , all ases , corrected , so as ) give the results as they would have been obtained from a pel.fectly adj usted system .
'Munich Acad. Trans vol. 13 , Part II , p. 49 , 1880 .
In .
Jolly 's tions the buoyancy of the weights seems to be allowed for in dealing with the water , and neglected in dealing the gases .
If this be so , the result would be ffected with a slight error , which , however , far exceeds iUly that could , from neglecting buoyancy altogether .
On the Densities of the Principal Gases .
The Water Contents of tloe globe packed in finely-divided ice , was filled with boiled distilled water up to the level of the top of the channel ) plug of the } ) , that is , being itself at , was filled with watel also .
Thus charged the globe had now to be ; but this was a matte ] .
of some to the very small capacity available above the tap .
At about ) would be a risk of ovel.flow .
Of course the water could be retained by addition of a tubing , this a complication that was to ayoid .
In February , 1882 , during a frost , opportunity found to effect in a cold cellar at a from to The required ( on the same sid of the balance as the lobe and its ) alnounted to gram .
On the other side were other whose values did not to be known so as they remained unlno v the whole bel.ies of operations .
Barometer ( corrected ) mm. ; temperature ' A few days later was discharged , dried , the balance with tap open .
grams now to be associated with it in order to obtain equilibrium .
The fEerence , repl.esents the weight of the water less that of the air displaced it .
The difference of atmospberic conditions was sufficiently small to allow the neglect of the in bhe buoyancy of the glass and of the brass countel.poises .
It remains to estimate the actual weight of the air displaced by the water the above mentioned atmospheric conditions .
It appears that , on this account , we are to add , thus obbaining as the weight of the water at which fills the globe at A further small correction is required to take account of the fact that the usual standard density is that of water at and not at According to Brooch ( Everett 's ' C.G.S. System of Units ' ) , the factor required is , so that we have as the weight of water at which would fill the globe at Air drawn from outside ( in the country ) was passed a solution of potash .
On leaving the regulating tap it tubes Lord Rayleigh .
[ Mar. 23 , filled with fragments of potash , and a long length of phosphoric anhydride , followed by a filter of glass wool .
The arrangements beyond ) regulating tap were the same for all the gases experi mented upon .
At the close of the filling it was necessary to use a condensing syringe in order to force the pressure up to the required point , but the air thus introduced would not reach the globe .
It may be well to give the results for air in some detail , so as to enable the reader to form a judgment as to the degree of accuracy attained in the manipulations .
Tap regreased .
The column headed " " globe empty " " gives the ( corrected ) on the side of the working globe , required for balance .
The third gives the corresponding weights when the globe was full of air , having been rged at and up to ] pressure required to bring the mercury in the manometer into contact with the two points of the measuring rod .
This pressure was not quite the same on different occasions , being subject to a temperature correction for the density of mercury and for the expansion of the iron rod .
The is given in the fifth column , and the weightR that would have been required , had the temperature been , in ) sixth .
The numbers in the second and sixth columns should agree , but they are liable to a discontinuity when the tap is regreased .
In cleducing the weight of the we compare each weighing " " full\ldquo ; with the mean of the preceding and following On the Densities of Principal Gases .
" " empty except in the case of October 15 , when there lvas no subsequent weighing empty .
The results are September 27 . . . . . . . . . .
, , October 3 . . . . . . . . . .
\ldquo ; . . . . . . . . . .
, , , Mean . . . . . .
There is here no evidence of the variation in the density of air suspected by ynault and .
Jolly .
Even if we include the result for September 27th , obviously affected by irregularity in the } of the globe empty , the ext , reme difference is only 0 milligram , or about part .
To allow for the contraction of the globe ( No. 14 ) when }veighed empty , discussed in my former papers , we are to add to the apparent weight , so the result for air becomes This is the of the contents at and under the pressure defined by the manometer gauge at of the thermometer .
The reduction to standard conditions is , for the present , postponed .
This gas has prepared by three distinct methods : ( a ) from chlorates , ( b ) from permanganate of potash , ( c ) by electrolysis .
In the first method mixed chlorates of potash and soda were employed , as recommended by the advantage ] the readier fusibility .
The fused mass was contained in a Florence flask , and during the wash-out was allowed slowly to liberate gas into a vacuum .
After all air been expelled , the tap was closed , and ) pressure allowed gradually to rise to that of the atmosphere .
The temperature could be pushed fear of distorting the glass , and the gas was drawn off through the tap .
A very close watch over the temperature was to prevent the evolution of gas from becoming too rapid .
In cqse of excess , the gas was used to blow off into the atmosphere , rather than risk imperfect action of the potash and phosphoric anhydridc .
Two sets of five fillings were effected with this oxygen .
In the sct the highest result was , and theLord Rayleigh .
bIar .
lowest , mean .
In the second set ( June , July , 1892 ) the highest result was and the lowest , mean The second method ( b ) proved very convenient , the evolution of under much better control than in the case of chlorates .
The recrystallised salt was heated in a Florence flask , the wash-out , in this case also , being facilitated by a vacuum .
Three fillings gave satisfactory results , the highest being , the lowest , and the mean 262714 .
The gas was quite from smell .
By the third method I have not as many results as I could have vished , operations having been interrupted by the breakage of the electro l generator .
This was , however , of less importance , as I Lal evidence former wolk that there is no material difference the oxgen from chlorates and that obtalnea electrlyls .
gas was passed over hot copper , as detailod in previous papers .
The result of one filling , with apparatus as here described , was .
To this may be added the result of } fillings obtained at an earlier the work , when the head of the manometer was haus by an independent Sprengel of by the Toppler .
The value them obtained was .
The results stand thus :\mdash ; Electrolysis ( 2 ) , May , 1892 . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) , , . . . . . . . .
Chlorates ( 5 ) , llay , 1892 . . . . . . . . . .
( 5 ) , June , 1892 . . . . . . . . . .
, anate ( , lary , Mean . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ection for contraction . .
It will be seen that the agreement between the different methods is good , the differences , such as they are , having all the appearance of being accidental .
prepared by electrolysis is perhaps most in danger of beiug ( from contamination with hydrogen ) , and that chlorates of being abnormally heavy .
Nitrogen .
This gas was prepared , in the usual manner , from air by removal of oxygen with heated copper .
Precautions required , in the first place , to secure a sufficient action of the reduced copper , and , secondly , as was shown by Jolly , and later by Leduc , to avoid contamination with hydrogen which may be liberated from the copper .
I have followed the plan , recommended by .
Jolly , of causing the gas to pass finally over a length of unreduced copper .
The arrangements were as follows:\mdash ; 1893 .
] On the sities of the Principal Gases .
Air drawn through solution of potash was deprived of its oxygen by reduced oopper , contained in a tube of hard glass heated by a large flame .
It then traversed a -tube , in which was deposited most of the water of combustion .
The gas , practically free , as the event proved , from oxygen , was passed , as a further precaution , over a length of copper heated in a combustion furnace , then through strong sulphuric acid , afterwards back through the furnace over a length of oxide of copper .
It then passed on to the ulating tap , and thence through the remainder of the apparatus , as already described .
In no case did the copper in the furnace , even at the end where the gas entered , show any sign of losing its metallic Three results , obtained in August , 1892 , were\mdash ; August 8 . . . . . . . . . . . .
, Mean . . . . . . . . . .
To these may be added the results of two special experiments made to test the removal of hydrogen by the copper oxide .
For this purpose a small hydrogen generator , which could be set in action by closing an external contact , was included between the two tubes of reduced copper , the gas being caused to bubble through the electrolytic liquid .
The quantity of hydrogen liberated was calculated from the deflection of a galvanometer included in the circuit , and was sufficient , if retained , to alter the density very materially .
Care was taken that the small stream of en should be uniform during the whole time ( about hours ) occupied by the filling , but , as will be seen , the impurity was eflectually removed by the copper oxide .
Two experiments gay \mdash ; September 17 . . . . . . . . . .
Mean . . . . . . . . . .
We may take as the number for nitrogen\mdash ; Correction for contraction . .
56 There was no need for this , but the acid.was in position for another purpose .
Much larger quantities of hydrogen , sufficient to reduce oxide over several ccntimetres , hare been introduced without altering the weight of the , VOL. LIII .
Lord Rayleigh .
[ Mar. Although subject is not yet ripe for discussion , I cannot omit to notice here that nitrogen prepared from ammonia , and expected to be pure , turned out to be decidedly lighter than the above .
When the oxygen of air is burned by excess of ammonia , the deficiency is about .
When oxygen is snbstituted for air , so that all ( instead of about one-seventh part ) of the nitrogen is derived from ammonia , the deficiency of weight may amount to per cent. It seems certain that the abnormal lightness cannot be explained by contamination with hydrogen , or with ammonia , or with water , and everything suggests that the explanation is to be sought in a dissociated state of the nitrogen itself .
Until the questions arising out of these observations are cleared , the above number for nitrogen must be received with a certain escr y. But it has not been thought necessary , on this account , to delay the presentation of the present paper , more ] as the method employed in preparing the nitrogen for which the results are recorded is that used by previous experimenters .
Reduction to Stamdard The pressure to which the numbers so far given relate is that due to mm. of mercury at a temperature of and under the gravity operative in my laboratory in latitude .
In order to compare the results with those of other experimenters , it will be convenient to reduce them not only to 760 mm. of mercury pressure at but also to the value of gravity at Paris .
The correctiye factor for length is .
In order to correct for temperature , we will employ the formula the volume of mercury at .
The factor of correction for temperature is thus .
For gravity we may employ the formula\mdash ; being the latitude .
Thus , for my laboratory\mdash ; and for Paris\mdash ; the difference of elevation being negligible .
The factor of correction is thus The product of the three factors , corrective for length , for temperature , and for gravity , is accordingly .
Thus multiplied , the numbers are as follows:\mdash ; * ' Nature , ' vol. 46 , p. 612 .
The thermometer employ ) with the manometer read too high .
Everett , p. 142 .
1893 .
] On the Densities of the Principal Gases .
Air .
Oxygen .
Nitrogen .
and these may now be compared with the water contents of the globe , viz. , The densities of the various under standard conditions , referred to that of distilled water at , are thus:\mdash ; Air .
Oxygen .
Nitrogen .
With regard to hydrogen , we may calculate its density by means of the ratio of densities of oxygen and hydrogen formerly given by me , .
Hence Hydrogen .
The foIlowing table shows the results arrived at by various experimenters .
Von Jolly did not examine hydrogen .
The numbers are iplied by 1000 so as to exhibit the weights in grams per litre : \mdash ; , 1891* The correction of nault by Craftsi represents allowance for the contraction of Regnault 's globe when exhausted , but the were not obtained from the identical globe used by .
In the fourth row I have introduced a ) similar correction to the resnlts of von Jolly .
This is merely an estimate founded the probability that the proportional contraction would be about the same as in my own case and in that of M. Leduc .
In taking a mean we may omit the uncorrected umbers , and also that obtained by Regnault for nitrogen , as there is reason to suppose that his gas was contaminated with en .
Thus Mean Numbers .
Air .
Oxygen .
Nitrogen .
Hydrogen .
2 'Bulletin des Seances de la Societe de Physique .
' es Rendus , ' vol. 106 , p. 1664 .
Lord The evaluation of the densities as compared with water is exposed to many sources of error which do not affect the comparison of one gas with another .
It may therefore be instructive to exhibit the results of various workers referred to air as unity .
Regnault ( corrected ) .
Jolly ( corrected ) LeducRayleighMean .
As usually happens in such cases , the concordance of the numbers obtained by various experimenters is not so good as might be expected from the work of each taken separately .
The most serious discrepancy is in the difficult cass of hydrogen .
M. Leduc suggests* that my number is too high on account of penetration of air through the blow-ofl tube ( used to est , ablish equilibrium of pressure with the atmosphere ) , which he reckons .
long and 1 cm .
in diameter .
In reality the length was about double , and the diameter one-half of these estimates ; and the explanation is difficult to maintain , in view of the fact , recorded in my paper , that a prolongation of the time of contact from to had no appreciable ill effect .
It must be admitted , however , that there is a certain presumption in favour of a lower number , unless it caIl be explained as due to an insufficient estimate for the correction for contraction .
On account of the doubt as to the appropriate value of this correction , no great weight can be assigned to 's number for hydrogen .
If the atomic weight of oxygen be indeed , and the ratio of densities of oxygen and hydrogen be , as M. Leduc makes them , we should have to accept a much higher number for the ratio of volumes than that resulting from the very elaborate measurements lforley .
But while I write the information reaches me that Mr. A. Scott 's recent work upon the volume ratio leads him to just such a higher ratio , viz. , , a number priori more probable than .
Under the circumstances both the volume ratio and the density of must be as still uncertain to the part .
* ' Comptes Rendus , ' July , 1892 .
1893 .
On the Densities of the Principal Gases .
On the Establishment of Equilibrium of Pressure in Two Vessels connected by a Constricted Channel .
It may be worth while to give explicitly the theory of this process , supposing that the difference of pressures is small throughout , and that the capacity of the channel may be neglected .
If denote the volunle and pressure of the gas in the first vessel at time the corresponding quantities for the second vessel , we have where is a constant which we may regard as the conduchvity of the channel .
In these equations inertia is , only resistances of a viscous nature being regarded , as amply suffices for the practical problem .
From the aboye we may at once deduce ; showing that varies as , where if be the time in which the difference of pressures is reduced in the ratio of : 1 .
Let us now apply this result ( a ) to the case where the globe oi volume communicates with the atmosphere , ( b ) to the case where the globe is connected with a manometer of relatively small volume For ( a ) we have\mdash ; and for ) ; so that For such a manometer as is described in the text , the ratio is at least as high as 30 ; and in this proportion is diminished the time required for the establishment of equilibrium up to any standard of perfection that may be fixed upon .

