318 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On [ May 5 , radial slit being as near as possible to the point of reappearance the whole field was crowded with bright lines , fifty or more being visible in the short space between wave-length 5600 and b. I noticed no difference in the length of these lines .
Clouds and rain soon put an end to all chance of further observations .
' Interesting sketches were made during totality of the outer streamers by Captain Masterman and Mr. Osborn , of H.M.S. " Bullfrog , " who both used the circular disks arranged so as to cover the brighter portions of the inner corona .
The instantaneous view that I obtained of the corona , most exquisitely defined on the white cap of the spectroscope , and the rapid glance I took with an excellent binocular , confirm the positions of the two principal rays drawn by Captain Masterman , but I observed at the same time a shorter ray between the two , which appears otherwise to have escaped detection , and I noticed the leaf-shaped curvature of the ray in the north-west .
The darkness was never much less than that of a fair moonlight night .
II .
" Note on the Microscopic Structure of Rock Specimens from three Peaks in the " Caucasus .
" By T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. .
Professor of Geology in University College , London .
Received April 5 , 1887 .
Although our knowledge of the petrology of the Caucasus has been considerably augmented of late years through the labours of Abich , Favre , Tschermak , and others , so much ground still remains untrodden among its mountain peaks that hardly any specimen can be entirely without interest .
Those described in the present note have come from the following localities:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The summit of Tau Tetnuld ; ( 2 ) rocks from the upper part of Guluku ; ( 3 ) the summit of Elbruz .
The specimens from Tau Tetnuld and Guluku were collected by Mr. W. P. Donkin , during his expedition in company with Mr. Clinton Dent in the summer of 1886 , and to the former I am indebted for the following note on the localities .
" Tau Tetnuld is one of the peaks of the central Caucasian chain , in the great Koschtan-Tau group which lies about midway between Elbruz to the N.W. , and Kasbek to the E.S.E. From Koschtan-Tau the main ridge forming the watershed runs somewhat north of west , dropping gradually in height ; but for some three or four miles forming a magnificent wall on the northern side , covered with a succession of steep snow-slopes and hanging glaciers .
A long portion of this ridge , including three more or less well-marked elevations , is called Djanga ; the next elevation on the ridge\#151 ; a much more obvious one , forming indeed a symmetrical snow pyramid\#151 ; is Tau Tetnuld .
1887 .
] Structure of Rocks from the Caucasus .
311 ) From the north it appears to have a sharp conical summit , but it is really wedge-shaped .
Further westwards the ridge falls continuously , a few rocky peaks protruding from it , to a well-marked snow col .
The drainage from the whole of this vast wall , from Koschtan-Tau to the col inclusive , collects in a basin , and flows northwards as the Bezingi glacier .
The glacier is remarkably level and free from ice-falls , and appears to start almost direct from the foot of the wall , with but little sloping never .
Its course is soon narrowed to a channel of some 1200 yards wide by spurs from the high ridges running northwards on either side .
On the west the ridge does not attain any great elevation , but on the east the glacier is bounded by a group of mountains culminating in the great rock-mass of Guluku .
This group is completely separated from the Koschtan-Tau chain by the glacier basin above mentioned .
Guluku itself is granitic in character , but the lower and surrounding peaks and ridges are schistose and shaly , in parts exactly like the Ober- and Unter-Rothhorn on the north side of the Findelen glacier.* The upper rocks of Guluku are grey in colour and look very like granite from some distance below ; then comes a belt of whiter rocks ( A ) , and below that a well-marked red belt ( B ) ; both thess belts are continuous and nearly horizontal for a long way round the southern side of the peak .
Below the red belt the rocks are darker and more mixed ( C , D , and E ) .
On the moraine on the east side of the Urban glacier , under Guluku , vast masses of granite had fallen , many of the blocks recently .
It is fine grained , and of grey colour ( F ) .
" ( 1 .
) Tau Tetnuld.\#151 ; Specimen from the highest rocks about 100 feet below the actual summit , which was covered with snow .
Mr. Donkin states that the rock traversed in the ascent appeared to be exactly of the same character .
This is a flat fragment of a brownish , rather fissile , but strong , mica schist , about i inch thick and nearly 2 inches broad and long .
The broad surfaces are spangled with small flakes of a silvery mica , and appear to be those of a " cleavage foliation .
" Examined microscopically , the chief constitutents are quartz and mica , besides which an iron oxide occurs , frequently in small granules and rods , and more rarely in larger grains .
The quartz and mica have a general elongated lenticular arrangement parallel with the broader surfaces of the fragment , and cracks traverse the slide in the same direction .
The quartz on applying the polarising apparatus is broken up into a mosaic of different sized grains united by diverse tinted margins , so that we are evidently dealing in each case with one or more grains which have been crushed up and re-cemented .
Cavities are sometimes rather numerous , and * Near Zermatt in the Pennine Alps .
These schists are referred to the uppermost group ( Grave kalkha.tige Sohiefer ) in the crystalline series of the Alps .
Prof. T. Gr .
Bonney .
On [ May 5 occasionally tend to range themselves perpendicularly to the lines of cleavage .
They are generally minute , sometimes stained internally , both ovoid and irregular in form , usually containing fluid , and with bubbles which , as a rule , are about one fourth the volume of the cavity , but not rarely exceed this .
Some of the large grains exhibit the usual indications of being in a state of strain .
The mica is brown , greenish , or colourless .
The first and second are biotite , moi'e or less altered .
The colourless mica resembles muscovite , but I think that at any rate some of it is a magnesia-potash mica , possibly hydrous , a secondary product after biotite , the iron having separated out .
This often remains between the cleavage planes in rods and plates .
Possibly some of the smaller flakes of mica may be altogether of secondary origin , but 1 have no doubt that most of it , including all the larger flakes , is an orginal constituent .
These flakes often afford marked evidence of mechanical disturbance .
They are bent , twisted , crumpled , and in some cases crushed up .
Portions of them , viewed with the polarising apparatus , have a peculiar " powdered " look , which I find very characteristic of a mica that has been to a certain extent crushed situ , so that , while the general outline of a crystal is preserved , there are constant ruptures of continuity and slight displacements of the constituent parts .
A few small mineral granules also occur in the slide ; some I am disposed to refer to epidote , others to a very impure garnet .
( 2 .
) The specimens from Guluku were collected , partly in situ at a height roughly of 14,500 or 15,000 feet above the sea , partly from a moraine , as above-mentioned , on the Urban glacier ; hence they represent a considerable mass of the mountain below the level just mentioned .
The highest point of Guluku is about 16,500 feet above the sea .
( A. ) From the highest rocks reached .
A small fragment of rock with indications of a slight cleavage , consisting of a porcelain-white mineral irregularly mottled with one of a pale pistachio-green colour .
The former on microscopic examination proves to be a plagioclastic felspar , considerably decomposed , but in parts showing very clearly a lamellar twinning .
The extinction angles are generally rather small , probably oligoclase predominates ; microlithic flakes of a micaceous mineral , and other decomposition products , are frequent .
The other mineral is an epidote , varying from a pale yellow tinge to colourless , and rather impure .
It occurs in aggregated and sometimes rather fanlike groups of longish crystals .
There are also a few spots of a serpentinous or chloritic mineral .
The mechanical disturbance of the rock is obviously posterior to the crystallisation of the felspar , as its crystals are cracked and even sheared , but , at any rate in the main , prior to that of the epidote .
Guluku ( B).\#151 ; A small fragment of a coarse gneissose rock , evi- 1887- ] Structure of Rocks from the Caucasus .
dently containing a considerable amount of a darkish mica , on the weathered surfaces reddish-brown ( the " red band " ) .
Under the microscope it is seen to consist chiefly of biotite , felspar , considerably decomposed , in part at least plagioclase , and quartz .
The biotite is in places altered into a greenish ehloritic mineral , in others is " bleached " by parting with its iron .
A white mica , however , which occurs in good sized flakes , appears to be an occasional original constituent .
The rock has evidently been much crushed .
The quartz is cracked and displaced , the felspar has been broken up , and parts of the original crystals are now occupied by a sort of irregular mosaic or mixture of felspar , quartz , kaolin , and white mica .
The felspar crystals are occasionally interrupted by roundish inclusions of quartz , such as one often sees in the oldest gneisses .
These may be of secondary origin , but I find nothing to prove it .
The original quartz grains , where adjacent to the crushed felspar , appear to have been augmented by secondary deposits of quartz in optical continuity .
The mica in parts of the slide shows marked indications of mechanical disturbance , and a reddish garnet at the edge has been distinctly crushed out , as is more fully described in ( C ) .
Guluku ( C).\#151 ; This specimen , in shape roughly a right-rhomboidal prism about 1"X 1 " X , has for its larger faces parallel joint surfaces ; two others are " sheen surfaces , " parallel with which the fractured faces exhibit a foliated structure .
The rock appears to be a strong rather compact mica-schist , dark in colour , with a few very thin lighter-tinted bands .
The principal minerals are quartz , mica , garnet , iron oxide , and a quantity of a brownish mineral , sometimes very fibrous .
The quartz occurs mostly in granules of moderate size , occasionally including a little minute rutile ( ?
) and mica .
It is on the whole fairly clear , but here and there cavities are pretty numerous .
These frequently contain bubbles , which , though very variable in relative size , are generally smaller than in the Tau Tetnuld rock , perhaps commonly about one-sixth or one-seventh of the whole volume .
The mica constituent is chiefly biotite or its alteration products , often a greenish ehloritic mineral , sometimes a whitish hydrous mica , both with interlamination of iron oxide .
The garnet is colourless in thin slices , and occasionally exhibits , along cracks , alteration for a short distance into a ehloritic mineral .
Some of the larger granules of iron oxide are hematite .
The pale-coloured rather filmy or fibrous mineral is certainly in some cases a secondary product after a felspar , the usual aggregate of a minute micaceous or kaolinitic mineral .
Other parts , however , consisting of narrow undulating bands of an aggregated fibrous mineral , like a small lock of wavy hair , I was at first disposed to regard as fibrolite , but after repeated examination I am unable to decide .
They resemble in some respects a fibrous mica , but their extinction 322 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On [ May 5 does not appear to agree with this mineral ( though accurate measurements are difficult to obtain ) for it seems markedly oblique .
It is evident at a glance that this rock has been subjected to a great pressure normal to the conspicuous foliation .
The garnets have been cracked and crushed out , , so as to have become elongated ovals in shape .
A glance at the diagram will render a more minute description needless , and will show that the garnet was more or less flattened out before it broke .
The quartz grains also are cracked , , being sometimes only a little , sometimes mueh displaced .
This mineral , however , does not appear to have been so completely crushed up as in the Tau Tetnuld schist .
Occasionally a small grain , adjacent to the ( original ) felspathic constituent , has escaped altogether .
The felspar has , I l elieve , often been crushed out , and then converted into , the above-named microlithic mineral .
The larger mica flakes are twisted about in the manner usual in a rock which has been crushed .
Study of this slide seems to me to show conclusively that this rock , anterior to the crushing , was a moderately coarse crystalline rock , consisting chiefly of quartz , felspar , biotite , and garnet , probably a rather micaceous gneiss .
Garnet , squeezed out and cracked ; surrounded by biotite , quartz and the fibrolitic mineral , x 25 diain .
Guluhu ( D).\#151 ; A small fragment of a micaceous granitoid rock .
Except for the greater abundance of biotite and the smaller amount of quartz this rock is closely allied to the next described ; the felspar is a little more decomposed , and small garnets are rather more numerous .
With these modifications the description given below applies here , and this rock , too , has evidently undergone about a similar amount of mechanical disturbance .
Another small fragment from about the same level contains more white mica , but as the general aspect suggests no important difference , and it is not a very promising specimen , I have not had a section made .
This occurs at a slightly lower level than ( B ) , and the two are about 100 feet below ( A ) .
1887 .
] Structure of Rocks from the Caucasus .
323 Guluku ( F).\#151 ; Section from one of two specimens representing numerous large blocks of granite fallen from west side of Guluku .
This is a fairly coarse-grained rock , chiefly consisting of a white felspar and dark mica , not rich in quartz .
The mica is mainly biotite in good preservation .
There is also a certain amount of a white mica which appears to be an original constituent and to belong to the muscovite group .
The felspar is occasionally replaced by kaolinite and micaceous minerals , but much of it is in good preservation ; sometimes one part of a crystal is reduced to an ''earthy " condition , while the rest is quite fresh .
Most of the crystals show the twinning of plagioclase , generally on the albite type , but occasionally on the pericline .
One of the grains appears to be microcline .
I have measured the extinction angles of several parallel lamellae ; it is difficult to get very satisfactory results , but , as in two of the best cases , they appear distinctly too large for albite , between 30 ' and 40 ' , the felspar is probably oligoclase .
There are two or three small colourless garnets , with probably a little apatite .
The quartz contains cavities , in which small bubbles are usually present , about one-sixth or one-seventh of the volume . .
This rock has evidently been subjected to a certain amount of mechanical disturbance since its consolidation .
The quartz grains are cracked and show strain-polarisation .
The felspar lamellae are occasionally bent , now and then cracked across , but the effects are slight compared with the other cases .
Mr. Donkin also collected a specimen some miles further down the valley which resembled the rock in a neighbouring cliff .
This appears to be a reddish rather fine-grained felspathic granite , but as it was not obtained in situ I have not had a slice prepared .
The evidence of these specimens does not appear sufficient to warrant any positive statement as to the origin of these Caucasian rocks .
The structure of one ( D ) seems rather to favour the idea of its having been a true granite ( i.e. , an igneous rock ) ; the same is true also of ( F ) ; while in another ( B ) there is a structure , which I have some reason to think characteristic of the Archaean gneisses.* But in the present state of our knowledge it would be unsafe to rely too much upon the latter criterion , because we do not yet know what modifications may be introduced by subsequent rearrangement of mineral constituents .
It has indeed been proved in the case of hornblendic rocks , that the original structures , characteristic of crystallisation from a state of fusion , may be wholly obliterated ; * The same difficulty exists in the case of some of the more highly crystalline rocks of the Alps .
Favre ( ' Recherches\#151 ; Chain du Caucase , ' p. 70 ) states that the central part of the Caucasus is " granite , " which he compares with the protogine of the Alps , with a considerable belt of crystalline schists on the north , and an intermittent one of the same , followed by slates , On the south .
Structure of Rocks from the Caucasus .
[ May 5 the same may take place also with granitic rocks .
Still , even if this mode of metamorphism has occurred , there is some reason to believe that it dates usually , if not invariably , from a very remote period We can , however , in my opinion , venture to assert that these Caucasian rocks , after they had assumed a crystalline condition , underwent great pressures , regional rather than local in their operatiou which to some extent crushed the constituents , and gave rise to certain mineral changes .
It seems then a legitimate inference that in this part of the Caucasus , as in the Alps , the fundamental rocks consisted of crystalline rocks of more than one type , at a period long anterior to the operation of the pressures which folded this part of the earth 's crust and upreared the mountain range .
( 3 .
) The huge mass of Elbruz appears to consist mainly of volcanic rock , and is crowned by two crater-peaks almost equal in height .
Of these the eastern , which is believed to be very slightly the lower of the two , was ascended for the first time on July 31st , 1868 , by Messrs. Freshfield and Moore .
On this occasion the western summit was so entirely concealed by clouds that its existence was not even suspected .
The western summit was first ascended on July 29th , 1874 , by Messrs. Grove and Walker .
Its " crater considerably exceeds in size that on the twin summit , and is probably about f of a mile in diameter .
The wall is perfect for some two-thirds of its former circuit , but on the south-west side a vast piece has fallen away , and a great glacier now flows down from the gap .
" The little peak forming its highest point , juts up on the north-eastern segment of the limb .
Its height above the sea , according to the Russian survey , is 18,526 feet , the eastern summit being 95 feet lower .
The col between the two summits , according to Mr. Grove , is about 17,350 feet .
The specimen collected by Mr. Walker was from the highest rocks traversed on the western peak , perhaps about half-way between the col and the summit .
It is a rough slab of a grey lava , with occasional small irregularly-shaped vesicles , and scattered crystals of a whitish felspar up to about inch in length .
The weathered parts are of a lightish-brown colour .
Microscopic examination shows that the rock has a clear glassy base crowded with minute lath-like felspar microliths , apparently oligoclase , and occasional specks of opacite and aggregates of ferrite : possibly some minute granules of a pyroxenic mineral are present .
To the same epoch of consolidation may belong some occasional elongated crystals of a light-coloured hornblende , but this is uncertain \#151 ; there are a few grains of iron oxide , probably hematite .
The larger crystals in the slide certainly belong to an anterior consolidation\#151 ; these are ( 1 ) a dark brown hornblende , often with rounded outline , and sometimes blackened with included opacite ; ( 2 ) a felspar , which generally resembles labradorite or andesine , but in one or two cases 1887 .
] Distribution of Strain the Earth 's Crust .
may possibly be sanidine .
It is often rounded or broken in outline , is always greatly cracked , and contains many inclusions of a pale brown glass .
One grain , indeed , consists very largely of glass , in which the crystalline parts are , so to say , embedded .
This suggests that the mineral has been melted down in along the lines of natural fracture , rather than that it has incorporated the glass in crystallising .
There are occasional cavities in the felspar , with bubbles varying in their relative size , which do not move .
Grains of quartz , as observed by Tschermak ( ' Mineral .
Mittheil .
, ' 1872 , p. 108 ) in specimens brought by Favre from the lava streams lower down the mountain , do not occur in this specimen .
A fluidal structure is barely indicated .
The rock may be named a hornblende-andesite .
I have compared the slide with one from the upper part of Ararat ( lent me by Professor Judd ) , and with my own collection of andesites and allied rocks from Auvergne , Germany , Hungary , Italy , Old Providence Island , and the Andes , but it differs varietally from all .
III .
" On the Distribution of Strain in the Earth 's Crust resulting from Secular Cooling , with special Reference to the Growth of Continents and the Formation of Mountain-chains .
" By Charles Davison , M.A. , Mathematical Master at King Edward 's High School , Birmingham .
Communicated by Prof. T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received April 7 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is founded on\#151 ; 1 .
Sir W. Thomson 's and Professor G. H. Darwin 's researches on the rigidity of the earth .
2 .
Sir W. Thomson 's investigation on the secular cooling of the earth .
3 .
The contraction theory of mountain formation .
I. The Distribution of Strain in the Earth 's Crust resulting from Secular Cooling .
The following problem is solved :\#151 ; A globe , of radius r , is surrounded by a number of concentric spherical shells , called A1 ?
A2 , A3 . . . .
, of thickness eq , a3 , u3 . . . .
respectively .
The globe remaining at its initial temperature , the shell A3 is cooled by tf , the shell A3 by tf , in the same time , and so on .
The linear coefficient of expansion being e , and the same for all the shells , it is required to find the distribution of strain resulting from this method of cooling .
An expression is found giving the change of radius of the inner surface of any shell .
Supposing all the shells to be of equal thick-

