On the Gizzards of Grazing Birds .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read April 4 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 184 .
] Since the organs of digestion in those quadrupeds which live wholly upon grass differ considerably in their construction from those of other quadrupeds , and in greater or less degree according to the different qualities of their food , it was natural to expect some correspondent peculiarities in the gizzards of those birds which feed on grass , to fit them for digesting this kind of food .
With this view the author has examined the gizzards of the goose and swan , in comparison with that of the turkey , which feeds on a different kind of food .
For the purpose of rendering the fibres distinct , so as easily to be traced , the gizzards of each were boiled , after having been previously filled with plaster of Paris .
In the turkey the two muscles , of which the gizzard consists , are of unequal strength , that on the left side being considerably stronger than that .
on the right .
These muscles , by their alternate action , produce a constant friction on the contents ; for though the direct pressure inwards is very great , the lateral motion occasions the force employed upon the substances contained , to be applied in an oblique direction , as Spallanzani and others have observed .
The internal cavity being of an oval form , like a pullet 's egg , rounded on all sides , does not allow the opposite sides ever to come into contact ; so that the food is triturated merely by the intermixture of bodies harder than itself .
In the goose and swan , on the contrary , the cavity is flattened , with its edges very thin .
The surfaces applied to each other are , however , not plane surfaces ; but a concave surface is applied to one that is convex ; and in the left side the concavity is above ; but the curvature changes , so that on the right side the concavity is below .
In these gizzards the horny covering of their surface is much stronger than in the turkey , and rough ; so that by a sliding motion of the parts opposed , the food is ground , although they do not admit the intervention of hard substances of a large size , and almost without requiring such assistance .
In the lower part of the oesophagus of these birds , the author observes an enlargement , which he considers peculiar to them , and thinks it answers the purpose of a reservoir , in which the grass is retained , macerated , and prepared , as in ruminating animals , for the subsequent process of rumination .

