Some Observations and Experiments made on the Torpedo of the Cape of Good Hope in the Year 1812 .
By John T. Todd , late Surgeon of His Majesty 's ship Lion .
Communicated by Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read February 15 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 120 .
] The fish on which these experiments were made , were generally caught early in the morning , and examined as soon after as possible , but in some instances were kept in buckets of water as long as three days , or more .
They are frequently caught by the seine in Table Bay , to the westward of the Cape , but very rarely in Simon 's Bay , which is to the eastward , and never caught by the hook with any kind of bait .
The Torpedo of the Cape differs in no respect from those of the Northern Hemisphere , except in size , which is never more than eight inches long and five in breadth .
The columns of their electric organs appeared larger and less numerous than those described by Mr. Hunter .
The form of any one singly is cylindric , but in a section of a whole organ the figure is modified by lateral compression .
The author found the supply of nerves to these organs , agreeably to former descriptions , to be larger than to any other parts .
The greatest shock they give was never felt above the shoulder , and rarely above the elbow joint , the strength of it depending more upon the vivacity of the animal than upon its size .
There appeared no regular interval between the shocks , which sometimes followed so quickly as not to be counted , while other animals could scarcely be provoked to give any shock .
The electric discharge was mostly accompanied by an evident muscular action in the animal , with an apparent swelling of the superior surface of the organs , and by a retraction of the eyes .
Two of these fish being placed in different buckets of water , one , which was irritated so as to give frequently repeated shocks , soon became languid , its shocks diminishing rapidly in intensity , and it soon died ; but the other .
not being irritated , continued living to the third day .
And this was universally observable , that those which ' parted with shocks most freely soonest died .
A Torpedo , in which the nerves proceeding to the electric organs had been divided , seemed to have no power of giving shocks , but appeared just as lively as another Torpedo taken at the same time , and placed in a separate bucket of water uninjured .
Of two Torpedos taken at the same time , one had the electric organs divided .
They were then both irritated equally , so that the perfect animal was soon exhausted of all power , and died ; but the other , which had lost the power of giving shocks , appeared as vivacious as before , and lived to the second day .
An animal , from which one electric organ had been removed , was found still capable of giving shocks , though possibly not so strong as before .
Another fish , in which only one nerve to each organ had been divided , was also able to give shocks as before .
When they were held only by the tail or by the extremity of their lateral fins , they appeared to have no power of giving shocks .
Mr. Todd infers from these experiments , That the electric discharge is a vital action .
That it is perfectly voluntary .
That frequent action is injurious to life , and may soon exhaust it .
That an animal deprived of this power is more vivacious , and lives longer than one which exerts this means of exhausting itself .
That both organs are not necessary for giving the shock .
That all the nerves of one organ are not necessary to be entire .
That a most intimate relation subsists between the nervous system and the electric organs .

