II .
" On the Different Types in the Microscopic Structure of the Skeleton of Osseous Fishes , " By A. K6LIJKER , Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in the University of Wiirzburg .
Comniunicated by Dr. SIIARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received January 20 , 1859 .
After having been occupied for several months with observations on the minute structure of the bones of fishes , I now take the liberty to present the results of my studies to the Royal Society .
The principal fact which I have to mention is , that a great many genera of osseous fishes possess no bone-corpuscles , radiated or fusiform , in their skeleton , and therefore no real osseous tissue .
That there exist fish-bones without bone-corpuscles must have been long known in England to those who have collections of microscopic preparations of the hard tissues of animals , as Owen , Tomes , Williamson , Quekett , and others ; but nobody seems to have mentioned the fact before Williarnson , Quekett , Dr. Mettenheimer of Frankfort , and myself * .
In the year I 850 Professor Williamson pointed out the absence of bone-corpuscles from the bones of the Cod , Haddock , Perch , Plaice , Pike , and various other fish , distinguishing them in 657 this respect from the bones of the Eel , in which such corpuscles are abundant* ; in 1853 I made knownt that the bones of Leptocephalus and Helmichthys contain no trace of bone-corpuscles ; a year later , Mettenheimer showed that the same was true of the bones of Tetragonurus Cuvieri " ; and in 1855 Quekett mentions , in the second volurme of the ' Histological Catalogue of the College of Surgeons of England , ' fishes belonging to eighteen genera , in the bones of which he had not succeeded in finding bone-corpuscles-viz .
Vogmarus islandicus , Lophius piscatorius , Gadus morrhua , Ephippus , Sparuss , Trigla cuculus , Belone vulyaris , Pleuronectes platessa , Trachinus vipera , Orthagoriscus mola , Exocwtus , Scarus , Esox , Sphyraena barracuda , Tetrapturus , Zeus faber , Percajtuviatilis , Gobio fuviatilis .
But , notwithstanding these most valuable observations , little or no progress seems to have been made in the more genieral treatment of this matter , as is best shown by the 'Comparative Histology ' of Leydig ( 1857 ) , in which ( p. 157 ) the Leptocephalid-e , Tetrayonurus , and Orthagoriscus are the only cases mentioned , in which the radiated bone-corpuscles are wanting .
On commencing a series of more extended investigations into the minute structure of fish-bones , in October last , I found that the genera which possess real osseous tissue are rather scarce , whilst , on the other hand , I fell in with a great many types in which the bones cointaiymed no trace of lacunrn .
And as this fact not only appeared to me of interest with regard to the development of the bones of fishes , but also promised to become of great value in systematic zoology , and in the determilnation of fossil remains , I devoted my whole time to this question .
Now that I have investigated more than 200 species belonging to nearly all tribes of osseous fishes , and mounted about 500 microscopic preparations of their hard structures , I hope to be able to treat this ( question more comprehensively than has been possible hitherto , and in such a way as to lead to some general conclusions .
In giving the results of my observations , I begin with an enumerationi of the fishes which belong to the one , and those which belong to the other type .
658 I. Fishkes whose bones contain nzo bone-corpuscles Ordo I. ACANTHOPTERI .
Fam .
1 .
Percoidei .
Perca fluviatilis .
Apogon Rex mullorum .
Pomatomus telescopium .
Lucioperca sandra .
Serranus cabrilla .
Anthias buphthalmus .
Acerina vulgaris .
Centrarchus sparoides .
Priacanthus macrophthalimis .
Therapon servus .
Trachinus vipera .
Trachinus draco .
Uranoscopus scaber .
Pomotis gibbosus .
Polynemus paradiseus .
Sphyrena spet .
Sphyruina barracuda .
Mullus barbatus .
Fam .
2 .
Cataphracti .
Trigla euculus .
Trigla lyra .
Prionotus carolinus .
Platycephalus insidiator .
Dactyloptera volitans .
Cottus gobio .
Aspidophorus europ cus .
Monocentris japonicus .
Gasterosteus trachurus .
Fam .
3 .
Sparoidei inel .
Marnides .
Sargus annularis .
Sargus ovis .
Cbrysophrys aurata .
Pagrus vuilgaris .
Pagellus centrodontus .
Boops salpa .
Boops vulgaris .
Dentex vulgaris .
Smaris vulgaris .
Smaris insidiator .
Gerres Pluinieri| Fari .
4 .
Scienoidei .
Corvina nigraCorvina lobata .
Micropogon undulatus .
Otolithus regalis .
JIremulon formosurn .
Pristipoma stridens .
Fam .
5 .
Labyrinthiformes .
Anabas scandens .
Jielostoma Temminckii .
Ophicephalus striatus .
Trichopus trichopterus .
Polyacanthus Hasseltii .
Spirobranchus capensis .
Fam .
6 .
Mugiloidei .
Mugil cephalus .
Mugil , spec .
Atherina Humboldtii .
Atherina vulgaris .
Atherina macrophthalria .
Fam .
7 .
Notacanthini .
Mastacemblus panealtis .
Fam .
8s .
Scomberoidei , Scomber scomber .
Xiphias gladius .
Tetrapturus belone .
Naucrates ductor .
Lampugus pelagicus .
Lampugus siculus .
Seriola , spee .
Chorinemus saltans .
Caranx trachurus .
Caranx carangus .
Centrolophus pompiluis , Lichia glauca .
Equula insidiatrix .
Argyreiosus voiner .
Vomer Brownii .
Zeus faber .
Capros aper .
Coryphrena hippUirus .
Astroder1 rus guttatus .
Tetragon mriis Caievri .
F'aml .
9 .
Squamipe nes Scatoplagus argue . .
6"9 Ilolacanthus , spec .
Toxotes jaculator .
Ephippus faber .
Farn .
10 .
Tienioidei .
Lepidopus argyreus .
Trichiurus hauinela .
Trachypterus taenia .
Trachypterus repandus , Costa .
Trachypterus Spinol .
Cepola rubeseens .
Fam .
11 .
Gobioidei et Cyclopteri .
Gobius capito .
Gobius cruentatus .
Gobius longiradiatus , Risso .
Amblyopus Hermannianus .
Eleotris huimeralis .
Tripauchen vagina .
Anarrhichas lupus .
Lepadogaster Gouani .
Echineis remora .
Farn .
12 .
Blennioidei .
Blennius gattorugine .
Blennius Montagui .
Blennius galerita .
Salarias quadricornis .
Cristiceps , spec .
Clinus argenteus .
Callionylnus lacerta .
Farn .
13 .
Pedunculati .
Lophius piscatoriis .
Chironectes histrio .
Jfalthe vespertilio .
B'atrachus tau .
Farn .
14 .
Thdeutyes .
Naseus longicornis .
Acanthurus nigricans .
Amphacanthus javus .
Fam .
15 .
Fistulares .
Fistuilaria tabaccaria .
Fistularia immaculata .
Cenitriscuis scolopax .
Aiilostowa sinense .
Aimnpiisile scutata .
Ordo II .
ANACANTHIINI , J. MIill .
Fam .
1 .
Gadoidei .
Gaduis aeglefinus .
Gadus morrhua .
Lota vulgaris .
Motella tricirrhata .
Lepidoleprus trachyrhynchus .
Fam .
2 .
Pleuronectides .
Rhombus maximus .
Rhombus podas .
Platessa flesus .
Plaguria , spec .
Achirus mollis .
Fain .
3 .
Ophidini .
Ophidiuim barbatum .
Fierasfer imberbis .
Arnmodytes tobianus .
Fam .
4 .
Leptocephalid6e , Bp .
Helmichthys punctatus .
Oxystomus hyalinus .
Leptocephalus pellucidus , Bp .
Hyoprorus messanlensis , Koll .
Ordo IlI .
PLIARYNGOGNATHI , J. Mull .
Pram .
1 .
Labroidei cycloidei .
Labrus variegatus .
Labrus scrofa .
Julis vulgaris .
Julis pavo .
Crenilabrus pavo .
Xirichthys novacula .
Scarus creticus .
Fa , m. 2 .
Labroidei ctenoiclei .
Pomacentrus fuscus .
I)ascyllus araucaniis .
-leliases castaneus .
Glyphisodon rhati .
Fam .
3 .
Chronmides .
Chhromis nilotica .
Chromis surinamensis .
Chromis , spee .
Ciclila Deppi .
( itr .
I X. Y y 660 Fam .
4 .
Scomberesoces .
Belone vulgaris .
Belone caudinaculai Tylosurus irnperialis , Bpi Sayris Camperi .
Hiemirhamphus , spec , Exocoetus exsilieu s. Ordo IV .
PHYSOSTOMI , J. 11Mll .
Fain .
1 .
Situroidei .
Subfam .
Eremophilini , Bp .
Trichoinyeterus punctulatLus .
Fam .
4 .
Cyprinodontes .
Poecilia vivipara .
Anableps tetroplh't ; halmus .
Cyprinodon calaritanus .
Molienesia latipinnis .
Orestias toeniatus .
Fundulus niigrescens .
Fam .
6 .
Esoces , Esox vulgaris .
Umbra Krameri .
Fam .
7 .
Galaxice .
Galaxias truttaceus .
Fam .
9 .
Scopelini .
Saurus lacerta .
Myetophum elongatum , l Bp .
Ichthyococcus Powerive , Bp .
Gonostoma denudata , Raf .
Argyropelecus hemigymnus , Cocco .
Odontostoma Balbo .
Fali-i .
10 .
Chauliodontide , Bp .
Chaiiliodus setinotus , SchnStoniias barbatus , Risso .
Fam .
12 .
-Heteropygii .
Amblyopsis spela3us .
Fam .
15 .
Symbranchii .
Symbranchus marmoratus .
Syinbranchus immaculatais .
Amphipnous cuchia .
Monopterus javanicus .
Ordo V. PLECTOGNATEII .
Fam .
1 .
Balistini .
Balistes capriscus .
Monacaiithus geographicus , Aluteres laevis .
Triacanthus brevirostris .
Fam .
2 .
Ostraciontes .
Ostracion triqueter .
Fain .
3 .
Gymnodontes .
Diodon , spee .
Tetraodon fahaca .
Tetraodon lineatus .
Orthagoriscus mola .
Ordo VI .
LOPHOBRANCHI9 .
Sing , nathus typhle .
Hippocarnpus guttulatus .
Pegasus draco .
II .
Fishes whose 6ones contain 6onecorpuseles .
Subelassis .
I. Teleostei , J. Mill .
Ordo 1 .
ACANTHOPTERI .
Fam .
8 .
Scomberoidei .
Thynnus vulgaris .
Thynnus alalonga .
Auxis bisus .
Ordo IV .
PHYSOSTOMI .
Fain .
1 .
Siluroidei .
Siltirus glanis .
Siluirus bicirrbis .
Sehilbe mystus .
Synodontis serra.us .
MalapterurtiS electrFluS .
Malapterurus beninensis .
ileterobranchus ariguillaris .
Chaca lophioi(les .
Plotos is unicolor .
Clarias fuscus .
Pinielodus , spec .
Arius , spec .
Bagrus , spec .
Callichthys , spec .
Loricaria cataphracta .
64 Auche iipterus fureatus .
Heteropneustes fossilis .
Aspredo la7vis .
Fam .
2 .
Cyprinoidei .
Phoxinuis Iaevis .
Cobitis barbatula .
Aspius bipunctatus .
Alburnus lucidus .
Gobio fluviatilis .
Rhodius amarus , Cyprinus carpio .
Abramis blicea .
Leuciscus rutilus .
Leuciscus tincella .
Tinca chrysitis .
Barbus vulgaris .
Barbus elongatus .
Barbus obtusirostris .
Barbus marginatus .
Chondrostoma risella , Ag .
Dangila lipocheila .
Labeo niloticus .
Catostomus , spec .
Fam .
3 .
Characini .
Citharinus Geoffroyi .
Distichodus niloticus .
Ilydrocyon Forskahlii .
Alestes dentex .
Tetragonopterus mexicanus .
Anodus cyprinoides .
Leporinus , spec .
Pacu teeniurus .
Pacu nigricans .
Erythrinus initaniatus .
Macrodon trahira .
Piabuca bimaculata .
Gasteropelecus sternicla .
Chirodon , Girard , n. spec .
Brycon , Mill .
Tr. , n. spec .
Fam .
5 .
Mormyri .
Mormyrus bane .
Mormyrops anguilloides .
Mormyrus longipiniis .
Mormyrus oxyrhynchus .
Mormyruis cyprinoides .
Morimyrus , 3peeC Fam .
S. SalmoIies .
Salmo salar .
Salmo trutta .
Argentina silur , Fani .
11 .
Clupeini .
Clupea harengus .
Alosa vulgaris .
Alosa mnelanura .
Coilia Grayi .
Engraulis encrasieholus .
Engraulis Brownii .
Notopterus Pallasii .
Macrostoma angustidens , Ri s^s , * Meletta tbryssa .
Elops saurus .
Megalops cyprinoides .
Chatoessus cepedianus .
Chatoessus punctatus .
Gnathobolus mucronatus .
Chirocentrus dorab .
Pristigaster , spec .
Lutodeira chanos .
Butirinus macrocephalus H yodon claudulus .
Heterotis niloticus .
Osteoglossum Vandeliji .
Osteoglossuum formosum .
I Sudis gigas .
Alepocephalus rostratus .
Fam .
13 .
AMurenoidei .
Anguilla vulgaris .
Conger niyrus .
Ophisurus serpens .
Nettastoma melanura .
Sphagebranchus imberbis .
Fam .
14 .
Gymnotini .
Gymnotus electricus .
Carapus brachyurus .
Subelassis II .
Ganoidei .
Ordo I. 10LOSTs , Fam .
1 .
Lepidosteini .
Lepidosteus platyrhynchus .
2y 662 Fam .
2 .
Polypterini .
Polypterus bichiir .
Fain .
3 .
Amiidce , Amia calva .
Ordo II .
CHONDROSTET .
Fam .
1 .
Acipenserini .
Acipenser nacarii .
Scaphyrhynchus Rafinesqujiii Pam .
2 .
Spatularie .
Spatularia folium .
Sabelassis III .
Dipnoi .
Fam .
1 .
Sirenoidei .
Lepidosiren annectens .
From these facts it follows that the osseous fishes , notwithstanding ' their great number , are separated in a very remarkable way into two grouips , as showin in the following enumeration : Fishes with bone-corpuscles .
Fishes without bone-corpuscles .
I. All the extensive and higherI .
All the numerous tribes of the organized tribes of Physostomi , Acanthopteri , with the excepJ .
Miill .
; viz. the tionl of the genius Thynnus .
Siluroidei ( except TrichoII .
All the Auccanthini , J. Miill .
mycterus ) .
III .
The Pharyngoguathi , J. Miill .
Characini .
IV .
Some smaller and lower-organMormiyri .
ized tribes of Physostomni , as the Salmoiies .
Cyprinodontes .
Clupeini .
Esoces .
Murnnoidei , Galaxie .
Gymrnotini .
Scopelini .
Chauliodontida , Bp .
II .
All the Ganoidei .
Leteropygii .
III .
The Sirenoidei .
Symbranchii .
IV .
Of the Acanthopteri , only the Aind of the Siluroids , only the genus 5{ ~~Trichornyct mrs .
genus T"hynnus , Cuv .
V. The Plectoguathi .
VI .
The Lophobranchii .
As there can be no doubt that most of the hiigher-organized fishes are amongst those with bone-corpuscles , and as we know that amongst the higher vertebrata , even the lowest , viz. the Perennibranchiata , possess real osseous tissue , it seems to follow that the peculiar distribution of real osseous tissuie and of the " ; osteoid " structure , as the osseous tissue without corpuscles may be called , has a deeper signification .
This will be found by studying the development of the bones il both groups ; and I hope to be able , before long , to pres-ent to the Royal Society some nlew facts with regard to this matter ilso ; but in the mean time , until my observations are itlorce complete , I must abstain from furth1er explain ation .
663 The facts exposed hitherto have had reference only to a great and fundamental structural differeince between two extensive groups of osseous fishes .
I meay now add , that there exist also greater or lesser structural discrepancies amongst the different tribes of each group .
But as this is not a suitable occasion for an expositionl of the details of this question , I will only say this much : .
In the higher fishes , those with real osseous tissue , there exist differences , especially with regard to the form and size of the bone-corpuscles ; and I hope to be able to show that there are peculiar and tolerably well characterized types of them amongst the Ganoids , Siluroids , Salmonida ?
, Cyprinoids , Cltupeini , &amp;c. In the second group there are more varieties .
In some tribes the bones are quite structureless homogeneous masses , as in the Leptocephalidce ; in others they have a peculiar fibrous appearance , and consist of a singular mixture of cartilage and osteoid structures , as Quekett first showed in the genera Orthagoriscus and Lophius , to which I may add some Balistini ; but in the great majority of the tribes of this group , the bones contain peculiar tubes more or less similar to those of dentine .
If these tubes are well developed , the bones acquire a structure which case in no way be distinguished from that of dentine , -a fact , which also did not escape the perspicacity of Quekett , who mentions its occurrence in the genus Fistularia , the Barracuda Pike ( Sphyraena barracuda ) , and the Gar-fish ( Belone vulyaris ) .
I found the same structure in many other genera of this group , especially among the Plectognathi , Pharyngognathi , Sparidce , and Squamipennes ; but in the greater number this tubular structure is not so well developed , and is intermingled with more structureless parts .
Another fact deserving of menition with regard to the bones of this group is , that there very frequently occur also structures , formed by the agglomeration of calcareous globules of different sizes , which resemble in a remarkable degree the lower layers of common fish-scales .
Ay observations have also extended to the hard structures of the shin of fishes , and of the rays of the fins ; and I may say that in general the same laws , which apply to the structure of the endoskeleton , hold good also for the exoskeleton .
Evidence of this is especially afforded by the fins , the rays of which , independently of their hard or soft condition , contain bone-corpuscles in all the tribes where the internal bolnes are provided with them , whilst in the other 664 case these rays are formed of a homnogenieous osteoid substance or of a tubular structure , which may also in somre fishes , as Williamsou first showed in the Ostracionits , assume the structure of real deuitine , as in many Plectognaths ( Triacanthu8 , Monacanthuq , Aluteres , Tetraodon , and 'others ) , and in certain Acanthopterygii ( Equula , phippus , llernulon , Pristi oma , Scatophagus , Centrarchus ) .
With regard to the skiu , we may at least go so far as to say that in no fish whose endoskeletoln is destitute of bone-corpuscles do they exist in the bard structures of the skinl ; but , on the other hand , the tribes which have real osseous tissue do not all present it also in the skin .
Scales or plates with bone-corpuscles are found amongst living Ganoids , e. g. in Polypterus , Lepidosteus , and even Ania ( in whose scales J. Mffller erroneously supposed them to be wanting ) , and also in the Acipenserini and Spatularice ; they exist also in the fossil Ganoids , as the excellent observations of Williamson have shown .
In many Ganoids , moreover , as Williamson and Quekett have showni , the scales often contain dentinal tubes , or even portions of real dentine ( " Kosmine " of Williamson ) amidst true bone .
In th &amp; scales of Lepidosiren , also , I find bone-corpuiseles , but mostly fusiform , and only here and there having a simple stellate figure .
Of the other fishes which have bone-corpuscles in their skeleton , little has hitherto been noted as to the coexistence of such corpuscles in their scales , but I find it to prevail to a considerable extent among them .
The presence of bone-corpuscles has been long known , it is true , in the larger scales of the " corselet " of Thynnus , also in the dermal plates of certain Siluroids ( Loricaria and Callichthys ) , and was pointed out by J. Muller in the scales of Sudis .
Leydig , too , states that true bone-corpuscles exist in the walls of the grooves and semicanals upon the scales of the lateral line in certain Cyprinoids ( Carp , Tench , and Barbel ) .
This statement I am able fully to confirm , and to add the following genera in which I find the same thing to occur ; viz.-Hydrocyon , Alepocephalus , Macrostoma , Risso , Piahuca , Serrasalmo , Xiphorhamnphus , Tetragonurus , Salminus , Chalcinus , Pygocentrus , La6eo , and Catostomus .
But , besides the instance of Sudis and certain Siluroids above referred to , I find that many other Physostomi have true bone--corpuscles in their scales ; not only those of the lateral line , but all of them .
From the results of i-my examinations up to this time , which , however , on account of 665 the want of materials , are by no means complete , I am able to make out the following list : 1 .
( CHARACINI .
Of this family I have had the means of exaMilning nearly all the genera , including forty-one species .
Characini with bone-corepuscles in all their scales .
Erythrinus unitoeniatus , Spix .
Anodus cyprinoides , Mill .
Tr. Erythrinus inicrocephalus , Agass .
Anodus edentulus , Agass .
Macrodon trahira , J. Mill .
Anodus leucos , de Fil .
Macrodon auritus , Val .
Schizodon fasciatus , Agass .
IPacu twniurus ( Prochilodus teniChilodus punctatus , liill , .
Tr. urUs , Val .
) .
I{haphiodon ( Cynodon ) vulpinus , Pacu nigricains , Spix .
Agass .
Pacu lineatus , Val .
Leporinus fasciatus , Muli .
Tr. Distichodus niloticus , Mull .
Tr. Leporinus elongatus , Val .
Alestes dentex , MRll .
Tr. Cithlarinus latus , Ehr .
Characini without bone-corpuscles in their scales .
*Iiydrocion Forskahlii , Cuv .
Myletes rhomboidalis , Cuv .
TPiabuca bimaculata ( Hyrtl .
misit ) .
T Tetragonurus mexicanus , de Fil .
Gasteropelecus sternicla , Bl .
*Tetragonurus argenteus , Art .
Gasteropelecus securis , de Fil .
ITetragonurus maculatus , Mill .
'Tr .
Cheirodon Girard , nov .
sp. , de Fil .
*Salminus Orbignyanus , Val .
Brycon faleatus , MiUll .
Tr. *Chalcinus Mulleri , de Fil .
Brycon , nov .
sp. , de Fil .
Pygocentrus nigricans , Miull .
Tr. Serrasalmo rhombeus , Cxv .
I Epicyrtuis gibbosus , Miull .
Tr. *Serrasalmo marginatus , Val .
Piabucina erythrinoides , Vat .
Xiphorhamphus falcatus , Miill .
Tr. Exodon paradoxus , Miill .
Tr. *Xiphorhamphus hepsetus , Mlil .
Tr. Leporinus , spec .
Myletes rubripinnis , MWll .
Tr. With regard to the members of the second division , it is to be observed , that probably in all of them the canals attached to the scales of the lateral line are formed of true osseous tissue ; in those marked with an asterisk I have found this by actual examination .
The Characini are thus divisible into two groups , according to the nature of their scales ; at the same time , these are not to be regarded as natural divisions in other respects , and the less so as one and the same genus , such as Leporinus , for example , may inielude species which differ in the compositioni of their scales .
The presence of corpuscles , though connected partly with the size of the scales , does not depend solely on this , for they may be wanting in large scales 666 ( JHydrocyon , Chalcmnus , Salminus ) , and present in small ones ( Anodes edentulus , Chilodus ) .
2 .
MORMYRI .
Mormyrus longipennis , Riupp .
Mormyrus cyprinoides .
Mormyrus oxyrhynchus .
Mormyrus , spec .
Mormyrus baTie .
Morinyrops anguillaris .
3 .
CLUPEINI .
Megalops cyprinoides .
Butirinus macrocephalis .
Elops saurus .
iHyodon claudulus .
Coilia Grayi .
Osteoglossum , Vandelii .
Notopterus Pallasii ( corpusc .
very Osteoglossum bicirrosun .
scanty ) .
Heterotis niloticus .
The plates of the abdominal carina in many Clupeini are formed throughout of true bone , but do not belong to the present category .
I am unable to find corpuscles in the scales of Lutodeira chanos , Chatoessus punctatus and ceqedianus , and Alosa vulgaris .
In several Cyprinoids ( La6eo , Catastomus , Barbus ) , I have , in like manner , failed to discover corpuscles in the scales proper ; on the other hand , I have found very distinct dentinal tuibes in the scales of Barbus , at their hinder part .
True osseous tissue will doubtless hereafter be found in the scales of many other Pltysostomi which have it in their skeleton , but it is not to be supposed that this will apply to all .
In the Physostwoni , as in the Ganoids , the bone-corpuscles lie in the lower stratum of the scale ; still they are situated above the fibrous layer , and immediately beneath the structureless layer , to which in all scales I apply the name of " I ganioiln-layer , " iniasmuch as it has in all cases the same signification .
From the foregoing observations we are able to show still more positively than could be done by J. Muller , that the scales of Ganloids have no peculiarity of structure to distinguish them from those of the Teleostei .
Nay , certain Ganoids , as Ainia , have scales , which in respect even of pliancy , rounded con.tour , and the surface-marking of the ganoin-layer , agree with those of other fishes .
In reference to those fishes which want bone-corpuscles in their skeleton , I have still to remark , -1 , that the corpuscles are also inivariably wanting in the semicanals upon the scales of the lateral line , for what Leydig designates as rudimentary bone-corpuscles in the 667 Perch are in fact the tubuiles of the osteoid substance ; 2 , that amongst the group of fishes in question , there are some which have beautiful dentine in their skin-bones , e. g. Amtphisile scutata and the Ostracionts .
To the foregoing remarks on the microscopic structure of the hard tissues of fishes , I may add , that there also exists a third group of fishes , in which the endoskeleton is composed only of common cartilage , or of cartilage with depositions of earthy salts , viz. the Cyclostomi and Setachii .
None of these fishes , not even the Plagqiostomi and Chimera , possess real bone-cells in their hard parts ; for these are formed only , as J. Muller showed many yearsago , by ossified cartilage , that is to say , cartilage-cells in an ossified matrix .
Even the hard spines of the fins and of the skin of these animals are not real bone , but dentinie , as was demonstrated lonig since by Agassiz and Quekett .
If now we sum up all that has been said , we arrive at the following conclusions ; 1 .
There exist three types of structure in the skeleton of fishes , viz. : 1 .
Type of the Selachii .
The skeleton is formed of cartilage or ossified cartilage .
Selachii , Cyclostomi .
2 .
Type of the Jcanthopterygii .
The skeleton is formed of a homogeneous or tubular osteoid substance , often of true dentine .
Teleostei ( J. Miill .
) , with the exception of the greater part of the Phvsostomi ( J. Mill .
) .
3 .
Type of the Ganoidei .
The skeleton is formed of real osseous tissue .
Most of the Physostomi , the Ganoidei , and Sirenoidei .
IL1 The exoskeleton follows in some respects the same laws as the endoskeleton , and shows the following types 1 .
Exos8keleton formed of a homogeneous and fibrous osteoid substance .
Scales of the majority of the Teleostei .
2 .
Exoskeleton formed of dentine .
Spines of Selachii and scales of Plectognatbi , and of Amnphisile , in part .
668 3 .
PEoskeleton formed of real bone ; partly in association with homogeneous osteoid substance ( ganoin ) and dentinal tubes .
Scales of Ganoidei , of Lepidosiren , some Siluroidei , of Mormyri , many Characini and Clupeini , also of Thynnus .
In terminating this communication , I think it proper to mention that the great liberality with which my friend Mr. Tomes of London , and Professor Williamson of Manchester , put their large collections of microscopic preparations of teeth , bones , and scales at my disposal , proved of great assistance in my investigations , and , accordingly , I am only fulfilling an agreeable duty in now publicly expressing my obligations to them .
I am also greatly indebted to my friends Filippo de Filippi of Tu-rin and Hfenry Muller of Wuirzburg , also to Dr. Hyrtl of Vienna , and Dr. Peters of Berlin , who supplied me with many of the rarer Mediterranean and foreign fishes .
But , in order that my observations may yield the results which may not unreasonably be expected from them , I need more aid ; and as England is the couintry in which not only the largest zoological collections of fishes , but also the greatest number of microscopic preparations of the hard tissues of recent and fossil animals , are to be found , I take the liberty to ask the possessors of such collections who may be interested in this matter to favour me with such specimens as may seem to them calculated to give to this series of observations the greatest possible extension .

