I. " A Contribution to the Knowledge of Persulphide of Ilydrogeu .
" By A. W. 1IolFMANN , LL. D. , F.U.S. Received May 25 , 1868 .
This remarkable body was first observed by Schecle , and subsequently examined by Berthollet ; our knowledge of this substance is , however , more especially due to Thenard , who , soon after the discovery of peroxide of hydrogen , was led also to investigate what was believed to be the corresponding sulphur-compound .
The composition of persulphide of hy .
drogen has nevertheless remained doubtful .
Tlhcnard points out that the specimens analyzed by him , contained variable quantities of sulphur , but always more than would have been met with in a sulphur-compound corresponding to peroxide of hydrogent .
* Ann. de Cliim .
ct ic 'hys .
vol. xlviii .
p. 79 .
t ' The , nard slates that all his analyses yielded more than 4 atoms of sulphur for 1 moleclle of sulphulret ed hydrogen .
2Q2 437 If , nevertheless , several modern authors have not hesitated to represent the composition of persulphide of hydrogen by the formula H2 S2 , with or without a sign of interrogation , their statements are no longer based upon the secure foundation of experience .
Of late peculiar circumstances have again directed the attention of chemists to this remarkable compound .
Among the technico-chemical aspirations which the Paris Exhibition has brought to light , none have been received with more satisfaction than the efforts , manifested in a variety of forms , of resuscitating for the purposes of industry the quantities of sulphur buried in the mountains of soda-waste , which accumulate in the neighbourhood of our factories .
Chemists have more especially admired the processes by which M. Schaffner on the one hand , and Messrs P. W. Hofmann and P. Buquet on the other , have endeavoured to solve this problem .
In certain phases of the reactions utilized for this purpose , enormous quantities of persulphide of hydrogen are frequently produced ; and only lately , when visiting the chemical works at Dieuze , where the sulphur is regenerated on a colossal scale , the author of this Note has had an opportunity of experimenting with many kilogrammes of this interesting sulphur-compound .
Under these circumstances the author has examined with great interest a compound which he discovered by accident , and the analysis of which appears to throw some light on the composition of the persulphide .
On adding a cold saturated solution of strychnine in strong alcohol to an alcoholic solution of polysulphide of ammonium , brilliant crystalline spangles soon begin to appear in the liquid , and after twelve hours , the walls of the vessel are covered with beautiful orange-red needles , frequently attaining the length of a centimetre , which , after the removal of the mother-liquor , have to be washed only once or twice with cold alcohol , in order to render them perfectly pure .
The crystals are insoluble in water , alcohol , and ether , also in bisulphide of carbon ; indeed I have not yet found a solvent from which they could have been recrystallized .
Analysis has led to the formula CHNSN0SCH N,0 , II S. 21 22 223 21 22 221 83 Hence the crystals are a compound of 1 ilol .
of strychnine with 1 mol .
of a persulphide of hydrogen , of the composition I2I S3 .
Indeed the strychnine-compound splits up in the sense of the above conception .
In contact with concentrated sulphuric acid the orange-red crystals are decolorized , and on addition of a small quantity of water , colourless , transparent , oily droplets of persulphide of hydrogen are separated , sulphate of strychnine remaining in solution , The oily drops remain unaltered for some time , but are ultimately decomposed into sulphur and sulphuretted hydrogen .
The investigation of this sharply defined strychnine-compound , which can be preserved for months without undergoing any decomposition , goes far to prove the existence of a persulphide of hydrogen , I12 8 ; it is , however , by no means improbable that compounds of hydrogen and sulphur in several proportions may exist .
The formation of the strychnine-compound which I have described , and which I have often prepared with the same result , could not fail to lead to an examination of several other alkaloids in a similar direction .
Quinine , cinchonine , brucine , and several other vegetal bases were repeatedly submitted to the action of an alcoholic solution of polysulphide of ammonium , but in no case were similar phenomena observed .
The compound of strychnine with persulphide of hydrogen is remarkable for its insolubility .
An alcoholic solution containing 2'03 grs. of strychnine , when mixed with an alcoholic solution of polysulphide of ammonium and allowed to stand for twelve hours , was found to have deposited 2'287 grs. of the red crystals , i. e. 87'2 per cent. of the theoretical amount .
It deserves to be examined , whether the property possessed by strychnine , of forming so insoluble a compound with persulphide of hydrogen , could not be utilized for the purpose of preparing this alkaloid , and in certain cases even for its detection and separation from other substances with which it might be mixed .

