The Preparation and some of the Properties of Pure .
183 It is thus evident that either set of figures gives results as concordant as could be wished ; and that the density of " atmospheric " nitrogen is correctly given as the mean of the densities of the constituents , taken in the proportion in which they occur .
" The Preparation and some of the Properties of Pure Argon .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , and Morris W. Travers .
Received December 12 , \#151 ; Read December 15 , 1898 .
In the memoir on Argon , a new constituent of the atmosphere , * by Lord Rayleigh and one of us , reasons are adduced on pages 235 and 236 in favour of the supposition that argon is an element , or a mixture of elements ; and on page 236 , the following words occur:\#151 ; " There is evidence both for and against the hypothesis that argon is a mixture , for , owing to Mr. Crookes 's ' observations of the dual character of its spectrum ; against , because of Professor Olszewski 's statement that it has a definite melting point , a definite boiling point , and a definite critical temperature and pressure ; and because on compressing the gas in presence of its liquid , pressure remains sensibly constant until all gas has condensed to liquid .
The latter experiments are the well known criteria of a pure substance ; the former is not known with certainty to be characteristic of a mixture .
" And on pages 257-259 of the same volume , it is shown by Professor Sydney Young and one of us , that the ratios between the boiling points of argon and benzene , Argon and alcohol , and argon and oxygen on the absolute scale are such that it is possible kto compute the boiling points of argon at different pressures with very considerable accuracy .
We therefore draw the conclusion:\#151 ; " It is hardly likely , though not impossible , that so good an agreement would be obtained with a mixture or an impure substance .
It is , at any rate , certain that a distinct want of agreement would have shown that argon was not a definite , pure substance , and the results may be taken as affording additional confirmation of the conclusion that argon is a definite , hitherto unknown constituent of the atmosphere , and that it has been isolated in a state very closely approaching to purity .
" The density of a sample of argon prepared by means of magnesium was found by one of us to be 19'941 ( 0 = 16 ) ; and a much larger preparation by Lord Rayleigh , obtained by exposing a mixture of air and oxygen to an electric flame in presence of caustic soda , possessed the density 19'94 .
Supposing argon to be a simple substance , and not a mixture , the atomic weight would therefore be 39'88 .
An attempt was made by Dr. J. Norman Collie and one of us to effect a separation * 'Phil .
Trans./ A , ( 1895 ) , p. 187 .
184 Prof. W. Ramsay and Dr. M. W. Travers .
of argon into a light and a heavy portion passing by diffusion ; but without definite results .
While the density of the portion passing first through the pipe-clay septum was 19*93 , that of the last portions was 20*01 .
We remarked on these figures in the following terms:\#151 ; " These numbers show that no important separation has been effected. .
The difference in density of the two portions may possibly be attributed to experimental error .
... As it stands , the difference is an extremely minute one , and it may , we think , be taken that any separation of argon , if effected at all , is very imperfect .
" It thus remained uncertain whether argon was a mixture or not although the balance of evidence went against the supposition .
When helium was discovered in 1895 , a new light was thrown on the question .
Its density , determined by Ramsay , and independently by Langlet , closely approximates to 2*0 .
Experiments , in conjunction with Dr. Collie , and subsequently by ourselves , showed that no great difference in density could be brought about by fractional diffusion and , indeed , the latter revealed no impurity except traces of argon .
On grounds similar to those from which a corresponding conclusion for argon was drawn , the atomic weight of helium must be somewhat below 4*0 .
The difference between the atomic Aveights of helium and argon is consequently about 36 ; and this is approximately the difference between the atomic weights of manganese and fluorine ( 36 ) , chromium and oxygen ( 36*3 ) , vanadium and nitrogen ( 37*4 ) , and titanium and carbon ( 36*4 ) .
But between each of these pairs of elements , there exists another , exceeding in atomic weight the lower member of each pair by approximately 16 .
It was therefore to be expected that another element should exist , with atomic weight about 20 , and on the assumption that , like helium and argon , it too would be a monatomic gas , its density would be 10 .
It was with the object of attempting to discover this unknown gas that the experiments on the fractional diffusion of helium were made ; and the gases evolved on heating some fifty minerals Avere investigated in order to find out whether a new spectrum could be observed , but with negative results. .
Seven meteorites were also examined , as well as six mineral waters , but no new lines could be found .
Sixteen of the minerals , two of the mineral waters , and one of the meteorites were proved to contain helium ; but if the gases extracted from them contained any gas other than helium or a trace of argon , it must have been in quantity too minute to have revealed itself to the spectroscope .
The gas which we were in search of A\Tas ultimately found in argon .
The argon , amounting to about 15 litres , Avas prepared by means of apparatus , of which a description is given in the sequel .
From the air employed in a liquid state for the purpose of liquefying and fraction ally distilling the argon , two other elementary gases have been obtained , besides one yielding the " Swan " spectrum .
A preliminary The Preparation and some of the Properties of Pure Argon .
185 account of all these gases has already been given in the ' Proceedings ' under the names of " Neon , " or " new , " " Krypton , " or " hidden , " and " Metargon " ; and at the meeting of the British Association at Bristol , the discovery of " Xenon " or " the stranger " was announced .
The removal of these gases from argon has put us in possession of pure argon , and the present paper deals with some of its properties .
The Properties of Pitre Argon .
In order to prepare 15 litres of argon , it is necessary to deal with about 1,500 litres of atmospheric air , of which approximately 1,200 litres consist of a mixture of nitrogen and argon .
To absorb the nitrogen contained in this quantity of gas by conversion into nitride , 4 kilograms of magnesium would be required theoretically , but in order to cover loss through leakage and incomplete action , 5 kilograms of the metal are employed .
The absorption of the oxygen and nitrogen was conducted in three stages .
In the first , the oxygen was removed by means of metallic copper ; in the second , the nitrogen was passed twice over metallic magnesium ; and in the third , the gas , now rich in argon , was finally freed from nitrogen and hydrogen by passage over a mixture of anhydrous lime and magnesium powder heated to a red heat , and subsequently over red-hot copper oxide .
The apparatus employed is shown in detail in the annexed figure .
It was of course necessary to confine the gas over water between the successive stages of purification , and finally to store the gaseous argon in the same way .
On account of the considerable solubility of argon in water , this would have entailed no small loss if the quantity of water with which it had been brought into contact had been large .
We consequently decided to make use of gas-holders of the gasometer type , in which the water was contained in an annular space of small capacity .
Balance weights were attached to cords passing over pulleys , and served to relieve the pressure on the gas due to the weight of the gasometer .
As the volume of the gas decreased after each successive stage , the four gas-holders employed were of different sizes ; the capacity of A was about 180 litres ; that of B , 27 litres ; and of C and D , each 18 litres .
Atmospheric nitrogen was obtained by drawing air , freed from carbon dioxide by passage through caustic soda solution , over heated metallic copper .
A large iron tube F , 3 feet 6 inches long , and 3'5 inches in diameter , containing 25 lbs. of scrap copper , was connected with the gas-holder A ; the tube was heated in a long fire-brick trough during these experiments , but a gas-furnace is shown in the figure , which has now been substituted for the more primitive arrangement .
The time required to fill the gas-holder was usually about five hours , and it was found , on analysis of the gas , that one single operation .I .*\gt ; ! . !
Prof. W. Ramsay and Dr. M. W. Travers .
sufficed for the complete removal of all oxygen .
The oxidised copper was reduced between each operation by means of coal-gas .
By closing the stop-cock b , and opening the stop-cock the gasholder A could be placed in communication with the apparatus in which the preliminary absorption of nitrogen took place .
By placing weights on the top of the gas-holder , the nitrogen was driven through the vessel M , and the ( J-tube N , both of which contained strong sulphuric acid , into the tube G , which contained magnesium .
This tube was a piece of steam-barrel , 1*5 inches in diameter , connectec at The Preparation and some of the Properties of Pure Argon .
187 -each end by a reducing socket with an iron tube , 025 inch in diameter .
The tube contained 250 grams of magnesium , cut into coarse shavings in a shaping machine ; the magnesium was not pressed very tightly into the tube .
Since after each operation it was necessary to remove the sockets in order to clear the tube , the joints were luted with red lead , And the tube was made of sufficient length to project about 3 inches at each end of the furnace .
The greater part of the nitride was generally removed by using an iron rod , and the remainder by means of water , which converted it into the hydroxide .
The tube was raised to a bright red heat before connecting it with the IJ-tube 0 , in order to allow the greater part of the hydrogen occluded by the magnesium to escape .
The absorption of the nitrogen , which was indicated by the rate of flow of the gas through the ( J -tubes N and 0 , was maintained briskly until practically the whole of the magnesium was converted into nitride ; the volume of the gas absorbed was equivalent to half the capacity of the large gasholder .
The gas , after leaving the |J -tube 0 , passed through a second iron tube H , containing copper oxide ; next , through the vessel P , in which water condensed ; and it finally collected in the gasometer B. That which passed during the first stages of the process consisted of nitrogen containing much argon ; but towards the end of the operation the argon became much diluted , until finally the gas which passed through the U -tube 0 consisted almost entirely of atmospheric nitrogen .
The tube G was then replaced by another containing a fresh supply of magnesium .
The tap c was then closed , and the taps d and e turned , so that the gas in the gasometer B could be made to flow through the magnesium and copper oxide tubes into the gasometer C. In this process its volume was very much reduced , and the gas which collected in C probably contained as much as 25 per cent , of argon .
When the whole of the gas had been expelled from B , the taps d and e were again turned , and atmospheric nitrogen was allowed to flow through the magnesium tube , as iii the first stage of this operation .
When the gasometer C had become full of the mixture of nitrogen and argon , as it did at the end of every third or fourth operation , it became necessary to reduce its volume by further absorption of nitrogen .
The method employed , which was first described by Maquenne , * consisted in passing the gas through a hard glass tube containing a mixture of magnesium powder and lime , heated to a dull red heat in a combustion furnace .
The lime was obtained by thoroughly calcining precipitated chalk in a muffle .
The nitrogen continued to be completely absorbed as long as calcium remained unattacked , so that the product of this operation consisted of pure * ' Count .
Rend./ 1895 , vol. 121 , p. 1147 .
188 Prof. W. Ramsay and Dr. M. W. Travers .
argon .
The gas issuing from the calcium tube passed through a tube S , containing soda-lime , and over copper oxide in the tube L , on its way to the gasometer D. Since at the end of the operation the system of tubes between the gasholders C and D contained argon , in order to avoid loss , the circuit was placed in communication with a Topler pump T , through the stopcock The space between the stopcocks l and / was exhausted at the commencement of the operation , , the exhaustion being continued till the greater part of the hydrogen , which is always evolved when a mixture of magnesium and lime is heated , had been given off ' .
When it was necessary to suspend operations , the taps l and/ were closed , the tap k was opened , and the argon was taken into the pump and delivered into the vessel Y which covered the upturned end of the capillary tube of the pump .
From Y the argon could be drawn into the small gasholder E , which contained mercury , and which could also-be placed in communication with the system through which the gas passed on its way from C to D. These operations were repeated until the gasholder D contained about 15 litres of argon .
The whole of this argon was then liquefied in an apparatus of which fig. 2 is a representation .
The argon Fin .
2 .
a entered through the tube a into the bulb b , of some 25 c.c. capacity , , surrounded by liquid air contained in a double-walled vacuum jacket. .
The air was made to boil under a low pressure of a few centimetres of mercury by means of a Fleuss pump attached to the tube The argon rapidly and completely liquefied to a colourless mobile liquid ; it showed no absorption spectrum .
Its volume was about 17-4 c.c. By turning the tap d it was placed in communication with the first of the series of mercury gasholders , e ; the reservoir was then lowered so as to remove the lower-boiling portions of the liquid .
During this distillation , which took place at constant temperature , the pressure on the boiling air was kept as low as possible .
This gas subsequently The Preparation and some of the Properties of Pure Argon .
180 turned out to be rich in neon , and to contain helium * The remainder of the argon boiled back into the gasometer until the last few drops were left ; the residue solidified , and finally gave a gas to which we gave the name metargon ; it was collected in mercury gasholders . !
As will be subsequently shown , the krypton and xenon in this quantity of argon are too minute for detection .
A similar operation for the purpose of separating the lighter as well as the heavier constituents was afterwards repeated three times , the middle portion of argon being always returned to the gasholder D ( fig. 1 ) .
A fourth liquefaction was carried out in which six mercury gasholders were filled with six separate fractions of argon , each taken after each successive fifth of the total argon had evaporated .
These fractions were next purified from any nitrogen accidentally present by sparking with oxygen over caustic potash .
After the removal of the oxygen the density was determined .
Density of Argon .
For a preliminary determination of the density of the various samples a bulb of about 33 c.c. capacity was employed .
It is much easier to ensure the purity of a small sample of gas than of a large one ; and it will be seen that very concordant determinations are obtainable with a small quantity .
The limit of error is probably not greater than one part in a thousand .
The results are expressed in terms of 0 = 16 .
Capacity of bulb .
Temp. Pressure .
Weight .
Density .
C.C. mm. gram .
( i ) 32-762 19-05 ' 535-1 0-03786 19-65 ( 2 ) 55 15-70 712-0 0-05265 19-95 ( 3 ) 55 17-00 662-2 0-05012 19-95 ( 4 ) 55 14-55 749-8 0-05460 19-91 ( 5 ) 55 15-60 740-4 0-05389 19-97 ( 6 ) 55 16-15 760-2 \#171 ; \#166 ; e 0-05501 19-95 The spectrum of No. 4 , examined later , showed a trace of nitrogen ; , the density of No. 6 was confirmed by other two determinations , each made after further sparking .
No. 1 was the first portion boiled off , and therefore its density is lower than that of the other fractions , probably owing to its still containing some neon and helium .
The rest of the samples have a constant density , approximately 19-95 .
A larger quantity of No. 5 was then purified by long-continued sparking , and its density was determined in a bulb of greater capacity .
To show the influence of such purification results are given , obtained * ' Koy .
Soc. Proc , , ' rol .
63 , p. 437 .
f Loc .
ext .
, p. 439 .
Prof. W. Ramsay and Dr. M. W. Travers , before it was complete .
The gas under such conditions showed a trace of the nitrogen acopically pure .
spectrum .
The portion last weighed was spectroCapacity of bulb .
Temp. Pressure .
Weight .
Density .
C .
0 .
163-19 15-47 ' 767-1 0-27235 19-935 33 16-97 764-8 0-26985 19-914 33 13-34 742-8 0-26591 19-952 33 12-95 741-3 0-26586 19-961 After the first of these determinations the gas was passed over a mixture of red-hot magnesium and lime , and subsequently over red-hot copper oxide , in order to remove hydrogen .
But after determining the density , the gas was examined spectroscopically , and was found to contain hydrogen .
The gas was therefore again sparked , when the density 19-952 was found .
This specimen was also examined spectroscopically , and was found to be absolutely free from all visible traces of impurity .
The last weighing refers to the same sample of gas , and was made as a control experiment .
These results conclusively prove that the density of argon , purified from its companions , does not differ greatly from that obtained by Lord Rayleigh , viz. , 19-94 , nor by one of us , viz. , 19-941 .
The true density may , we think , be safely taken as the mean of the last two determinations , viz. , 19*957 .
This corresponds with the mean of the four reliable determinations with the small bulb , viz. , Nos. 2 , 3 , 5 , and 6 , which is 19-955 .
Refradivity of Argon .
The refractivity of pure argon was next determined .
The measurements were made according to the plan suggested by Lord Rayleigh.* The samples investigated were Nos. 1 , 2 , 5 , and 6 .
The comparison was made with air .
( 1 ) 0-9620 Contains neon and helium .
( 2 ) 0-9687 ( 5 ) 0-9647 Mean , 0*9665 .
( 6 ) 0-9660 The refractivity of a previous sample of argon , obtained from the middle of the 15 litres , during the second liquefaction , was 0-9679 , a number differing only slightly from that given above .
The refractivity of argon containing krypton , which had a density 20*01 , was much higher than the number given above for pure argon , for it reached 1*030 as a mean of two determinations .
Evidently then * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 59 , p. 201 .
The Preparation and some of the Properties of Pure Argon .
191 the body possessing the high refractivity was not present in No. 6 in greater proportion than in No. 2 , otherwise the refractivity of No. 6 would have shown an increase over that of No. 2 .
The refraetivity of pure argon differs somewhat from the value for crude argon found by Lord Rayleigh , viz. , 0961* and also from that previously found by ourselves , 0-9596 .
The removal of neon , which appears to have a very low refractivity , and of helium , of which the refractivity is 0-1238 , accounts for the increased refractivity of a sample from which they are absent .
The gases which we have recently found in air and in crude argon will form the subject of a future communication .
Suffice it to say that the amount of neon and helium is much more considerable than that of the others , and that their effect on crude argon is , therefore , much more marked on its density and refractivity .
To revert to the opening sentences of this communication , we may point out that the remarks on the homogeneous nature of argon were just at the time .
The change in its physical constants , caused by the mixture of more recently discovered gases which it has been shown to contain , is exceedingly small , and does not call for any serious alteration in the original paper on " Argon , a new Constituent of the Atmosphere .
" The Density of Argon at the Boiling Point of Oxygen .
In an addendum to the original paper on argon , f the expansion of argon by rise of temperature to 250 ' , as well as its contraction by fall of temperature to - 88 ' , was determined .
There is a considerable difference between the temperature at which nitrous oxide boils and that at which oxygen boils , and it was thought worth while to ascertain whether argon behaves as a normal gas down to the boiling point of oxygen .
Olszewski ] ; gives the boiling point of argon as \#151 ; 187 ' , and that of oxygen as - 182-7 ' ; at the latter temperature , therefore , argon would not be far removed from its own condensing point .
The interesting question , of course , is the possible polymerisation of argon at such a low temperature .
No sign of any polymerisation has been observed , as is shown by the following data:\#151 ; Hydrogen Thermometer .
Temperature .
Pressure .
Yolume .
R. 'C .
mm. 99-7 1091-5 1-0026 2-9362 o-o 803-2 1-0000 2-9421 -182-7 269-6 0-9953 2-9715 * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 59 , p. 205 .
f ' Pliil .
Trans./ A , 1895 , p. 239 .
J Loc .
cit. , p. 257 .
Mr. C. Coleridge Far .
Some Expressions for Argon Thermometer .
Temperature .
Pressure .
Volume .
E. 0 C. mm. 100-1 1414-9 1-0026 3-8095 o-o 1040-0 1-0000 3-8022 -182-7 353-2 0-9953 3-8930 No correction has been made for the unheated or uncooled stem of the thermometer ; but it is obvious that although the lowest temperature lies close to the boiling point of argon , the ratio of the values of PIE / T of hydrogen and argon at that temperature , as well as the others , is practically constant .
" On some Expressions for the Radial and Axial Components of the Magnetic Force in the Interior of Solenoids of Circular Cross-section .
" By .
C. Coleridge Far , B.Sc. , formerly Angas Scholar , University of Adelaide .
Communicated by Professor H. Lamb , F.R.S. Received June 7 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1898 .
In the present paper , certain expressions are arrived at , in terms of zonal spherical harmonics and their first derivatives , by which the values of the two components of the magnetic force may be calculated for any point in the interior of a coil , and hence the total force may be found both in magnitude and direction .
The resulting series suffer from the well-known defect in the spherical harmonic method , in that they are not very rapidly converging for points near the boundary of the space for which they apply .
A table of the values of the first derivatives of the first seven zonal harmonics is added .
This table , in conjunction with that calculated by Messrs. Holland , Jones , and Lamb , and published in the ' Philosophical Magazine , ' Series 5 , December , 1891 , will facilitate the numerical use of the expressions arrived at .
Let Slda be the magnetic potential at any point within a solenoid whose depth of winding da is indefinitely small .
If a be the radius of this " solenoidal sheet , " and the axis of 0 be the axis of the coil , the axis of x being along a radius of the circular section of the coil , and the origin at the centre of the equatorial section of the coil , we have , neglecting the insulating covering of the wire , where X = the radial component of the magnetic force , Z = the axial component , S = radius of the outside winding of the coil of finite dimensions , T = radius of the inside winding .

