[ Numb.54 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
December 13 .
1669 .
The Contents .
The Extracts of Two Letters , one written from Paris concerning some Transactions there , relating to the Transfusion of Blood ; the other , from Plimouth , giving an Account of the hindrance of opening the Big-breasted Woman after her death .
An Appendix to the former Discourse of the SaltWork .
A Relation , touching the Quick silverMines in Friuli , confirming and enlarging the Account formerly given of the same .
A Narrative of an odd Lake in Carniola .
An Account of some Books : I. MECHANICA , sive de MOTU Tractatus Geometricus , A. Joh. Wallis SS .
Th. D. &amp;c. II .
NATH .
HIGHMORI de Hysterica &amp; Hypochondriaca Passione Responsio Epistolaris ad Doct. Willis .
III .
NOUVELLES EXPERIENCES sir la VIPERE , par M. CHARAS .
IV .
ATHANASII KIRCHERI ARS COMBINATORIA .
V. THEODORI KERCKRINGII M. D. Spicilegium Anatomicum , nec non Osteogenia Faetuum .
A Letter Written by an Intelligent and Worthy English Man from Paris , to a Considerable Member of the R. Society in London , concerning some Transactions there , relating to the Experiment of the Transfusion of Blood .
SIR , YOu have such a Relation to the Royal Society , that I think my self obliged to impart unto you the Honourable mention , I heard of that Noble Institution in the Grand Chambre of the Parliament here , on Thursday last , that Society being then publicly instanced in for the Source of Noble Experiments , and having the Precedence of those in Germany , Italy , and other places of Europe , in that order , wherein the Orator thought fit to rank them .
The Occasion of mentioning it was , That one Monsieur Denys , a Physician , had been questioned before the Lieutenant Criminal here for the Death of his Patient ( a Man that had been stark Mad for several years ) who had expired under his hands , while he was Transfusing Blood into him , according to the New Experiment .
The Operation had been twice performed with go d success ; the Patient having had thereupon a good interval of two Moneths after the first , and all hopes of a longer after the second , had it not been for the debauches in Wine and Brandy , that he fell to , soon after the Operation .
He was a Brittan by birth , and the Original of his Madness , Love .
That which Mr. Denys , his Advocate , very much gloried in , was , that(besides that the Experiment had been practised with good , at least with no ill , success , in England , Germany , Italy , Holland , &amp;c. and defended in Theses in almost all the Universities of France ) there were two persons , a Man and a Woman , present in the Audience , that received a benefit to Admiration from the Experiment , after they had been abandoned by all Physicians and other helps .
In Justifying the Introduction and Use of New Experiments he said , That the Most precious Life to this State ( viz That of his Most Christian Majesty ) had been saved by the Administration of a lately invented Emetique .
This Advocat was the Son of Monsieur le Premier President de la Moignon .
The same was , not long since , in our Court , and is , I perceive , well known to it , and infinitely satisfied with the Civilities he had received from several persons there Though this was his first Action , yet his performance was a Master-piece , and he had an Audience sutable ; all Friends , I suppose , to his Family : among them were the Duke of Enguyen , the Dukes of Luynes , Mortemar , Chaulne , and a World of other Great Persons , Men and Women .
The Pleading for the Widow Plaintiff will be on Thursday next ; but any odds would be laid on the Defendants side ; though some partial Men here are more than suspected to set on the Widow .
Pardon , Sir , this Interruption , and believe me , Tours , &amp;c. Paris , Nov. 30 .
1669 .
An Extract of a Letter Written by Dr. Durston from Plymouth November .
28 .
1669 .
giving an Account , why the late Big-breasted Woman was not opened after her Death .
SIR , IT was designed to have examined the Viscera of Eliz .
Travers , but her Aunt , who was with her and took care of her , fell into such a passion upon the proposal of opening her , that she seemed to be for the time besides her self ; and I could not by any art get her out of the Chamber , where the Corps was laid out , till she saw her nailed up in her Coffin .
I never saw such fondness shown to a dead Body ; and I was sufficiently troubled to be thus disappointed by a fond extravagant Woman : But yet I believe , if I had examined the Entralls , I should have seen little or nothing extraordinary .
For , to the last , I could perceive no ill smell from her Breath , or straightness upon the Chest , or painfulness in her Breathing ; and the Egesta per urinam , &amp;c. were well enough .
If any thing worth Observation do further occurr in these parts , I shall upon every opportunity communicate it to you , who am , &amp;c.

