]\gt ; Messrs. L. Hill and M. Greenwood , Jun. [ Oct. 1 , When dried at 10 C. , the substance Ioses only two molecuIes of water of crystallisation : \mdash ; gramme air-dried substance lost at gramme per cent. Calculated for NaSb .
per cent. The remaining half molecule is subsequently lost in vacuo over sulphuric acid .
gramme substance dried at C. then lost in vacv , over sulphuric acid gramme .
Total loss per cent. On exposure to air , the two and a half molecuIes of water of crystallisation are again taken up , but the salt does not deliquesce .
gramme substance dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid , on exposure to air eased in weight to gramme .
The Influence of rometric Pressure on Man . .
4.\mdash ; The Relation of Age Body Weight to Decompression Effects .
By LEONARD HILL , F.R.S. , and M. GREENWOOD , Jun. , M.R.C.S. ( Received October l , \mdash ; Read December 5 , 1907 .
) Statistics of caissons and diving works tend to suggest that the percentage number of men affected injuriously by exposure to compressed air increases with age .
Pol and Watelle ( 1 ) record that men between and 26 stood the work best , and that of the 25 men dismissed for illness from the works under their inspection , 19 were over 40 years old , 5 over 30 , and 1 over 28 years .
Catsaras(2 ) investigated 62 instances of paralysis among sponge divers , and we find that , of these , 33 were over 30 years old , 17 over 25 , 11 over 20 , and 1 over 19 .
These men dived about 140 feet , spent about 10 minutes below , and were decompressed in about one minute .
Evidently this variation might depend on\mdash ; ( i ) the actual difference ; ( ii ) on an increase in mean body weight with age ; ( iii ) on a combination of and ( ii ) ; ( iv ) it be purely random .
We cannot absolutely exclude ( iv ) in the instance of caisson works unless we know the total number of men at each age employed , figures which do not seem to be available .
Snell ( 3 ) gives the following table able I ) of his observations , made at the Blackwall Tunnel works .
Unfortunately , column 2 gives not the total number employed , but only those who submitted themselves to medical inspection , which was not , at first , compulsory .
1907 .
] Influence of Increased Barometric Pressure on Man .
13 Table I. Supposing , however , that the men examined by Snell were a fair sample of the workers , they can be used as a measure of the age distribution in the whole class of employe 's .
If there be no special liability to illness at any particular , the number of men of a given who suffer should be simply total number of cases , where the number of men within the specified age limits as recorded above .
In this way we obtain the subjoined table:\mdash ; Table II .
Applying the usual test for goodness of fit ( 4 ) to this distribution , is found to be , so that the odds are more than a million to one against a worse reement between theory and observation if the deviations are merely a result of random sampling .
In the same way , if we group the ; cases with recorded ages given by .
Schrotter ( 2 ) , from the Nussdorf Works , and assume Snell 's age distribution to hold for these works ( a not very improbable assumption , since we know that many caissoniers travel from place to place through Engand and , we have : Messrs. L. Hill and M. Greenwood , Jun. [ Oct. 1 , Table III .
and is , or the odds are about three in a million .
will be seen , therefore , that there is some evidence in favour of an } bias , but the statistics are not sufficiently detailed to give much information .
Returning to ( i ) , ( ii ) , and ( iii ) , it is clear that we must have considerable difficulty in isolating ( i ) and ( ii ) under experimental conditions .
Thus , in dealing with such animals as rats , it is not easy to obtain a large number of the same age but markedly different body weights .
If we attempt to overcome the difficulty by animals of different species , a new factor is involved , the importance of which cannot at present be estimated .
It must , therefore , be admitted that in the results about to be detailed the observed differences camlot be ascribed wholly to body mass ; other changes associated with growth and decay may be influential , and we must certainly not compare directly animals of different species .
With these reservations , which more will be said later , we shall demonstrate an appreciable difference in liability to caisson disease when of ferent weights are employed .
It is known that the velocity of the circulation and rate of respiratory exchange in small mammalia is reater than in large animals , the relatively larger surface exposure in the former a higher rate of metabolism .
Since the saturation of the tissues with gas , together with its removal from them , are functions of the blood , it follows that the processes should require less time in small than large animals .
If , then , we expose large and small animals to the influence of compressed air for so long a time that both will contain large quantities of dissolved gas , a decompression rate erous for the former should be safe for the latter .
Our experiments have been carried out on rats , mice , cats , rabbits , and guinea-pigs .
( a ) In all expe1iments the animals were exposed to a pressure of for periods varying from a-half to two hours ; in most cases the exposure was 1907 .
] Influence of Barometric Pressure on .
15 for one hour .
Decompression was effected in four and a-half to seven seconds : In all , 85 rats have been used\mdash ; 54 small , 31 large ; of the small rats , 14 , or per cent. , died ; of the large animals , 24 , per cent. , died .
Unfortunately , all the rats were not weighed , but we have records of the weight in 65 cases , and although this is not a great many from the statistician 's point of view , it is sufficient to make an analysis interesting .
The following attempt has been made to measure the relationship between decompression effects and body weight .
As we have no quantitative scale of decompression effects , the most satisfactory method to employ would seem to be that of fourfold division , obtaining the coefficient of correlation in the ordinary way ( 0 ) .
We accordingly made the following table:\mdash ; Table Below 1Above 1 Totals .
From this was calculated to be At first sight this would suggest a very close relationship between low weight and immunity from illness , but it is more than doubtful whether the fourfold method is applicable .
For this process to be valid it is necessary that the distribution should be normal ; thus , the modal severity of caisson illness should be neither among the very ] ight nor the very severe cases .
As a matter of fact , human statistics show that " " tYht decompression effects , are vastly more frequent than severe or moderately severe paralysis , so that severity distribution is , perhaps , skew , and , as foumd above , ceases to be a satisfactory measure of association .
We have , however , two more tests of statistical relationship , the correlation ratio ( 6 ) and the coefficient of mean square contingency .
We can calculate readily ; the mean weight of all the rats was grammes , the standard deviation ; the mean of survivors was grammes , of victims , and As a matter of fact this value differs from ? .
by less than three times Messrs. L. Hill and M. Greenwood , Jun. [ Oct. 1 , the latter 's probable error , but this does not prove linearity of regression , * nor can we apply Blakernan 's test for linearity ( 8 ) , since the scale of caisson illness is not quantitative .
Finally , the mean square contingency was determined by means of the grouping shown in Table , and proved to be While , therefore , the exact value of the relationship between body weight and decompression effects is hardly expressible in terms of normal correlation , it can scarceiy be less close than that implied by a contingency coefficient of at least ; in other words , the two variables are quite definitely correlated , We have at present no means of extending this analysis to any other group of animals .
Table Observations falling at a class limit ( e.g. , 60 ) were reckoned as in eaoh class .
( b ) Rabbits .
Our experiments have not been numerous , but the following are suggestive :\mdash ; Exp. 5.11.06.\mdash ; Three rabbits , one full grown , another of size , * In any case , but weight can be attached to the value obtained for , since there are only two arrays available .
It seemed best , however , to record the value for comparison .
Deduced by multiplying the probable error obtained from the ordinary formula by 4/ 3 .
complete formula of Blakeman and Pearson ( 9 ) gave a lower value , perhaps owing to an undetected slip in the rather involved arithmetical computation .
The exact significance of the coefficient may be realised ba1 its value with those obtained by Pearson ( 7 ) for the contingency between undoubtedly related variables:\mdash ; Stature in father and son Hair colour in brothers Occupation iu fathers and S01JS See pp. 21 , 22 ( 7 ) .
1907 .
] Influence Increased rometric Pon .
17 third smaller one , were exposed to a pressure of 105 to 110 lbs. for utes , and decompressed in four and a-half seconds .
The biggest rabbit went into convulsions in three and a-half minutes , and the mediumsized one was affected shortly after .
On unscrewing the chamber both were found dead , the usual post-mortem appearances .
The smallest rabbit seemed normal .
* ( c ) Cats .
pregnanL cat and half-grown kitten were exposed to lbs. for 30 , and decompressed in six seconds .
The cat died in 20 minutes .
Autopsy.\mdash ; Veins and arteries full of bubbles and froth .
Lungs emphysematous and ested in patches , owing to air embolism .
Foetuses.\mdash ; Air bubbles in amniotic fluid , which frothed on pouring into a beaker ; air in foetal lungs and liquid contents of stomachs , none visible in the blood .
The kitten , which appeared normal , was killed for examination within a minute of opening the chamber .
No bubbles were seen .
The bladder was full of urine , which frothed like champagne when poured into a beaker .
25.1.07.\mdash ; An old cat and a rown cat were exposed to for 85 minutes , and decompressed in seven seconds .
The old cat was found to be dead on opening the chamber , the young cat survived 20 minutes .
26.7.07.\mdash ; An old cat and two kittens ( half grown ) exposed to for 30 minutes and decompressed in 10 seconds .
The cat was found dead on the chamber , the two kittens survived .
Collecting our results on rabbits and cats , we have : Table The difference in the group is hardly sensible , iu the second , perhaps , significant .
Although this animal had no decompression symptoms , it died days later pneumonia , produced by the rupture of the lung tissue , occurs many cases on sudden decompresbion , followed by infection .
VOL. LXXX.\mdash ; B. Messrs. L. Hill and M. Greenwood , Jun. [ Oct. 1 , If young animals have an advantage here also , it is , to say the least , not very marked , and we may reasonably conclude that we have to deal with a group in which the absolute body mass of all members is so great that the decompression period ( four to seven seoonds ) is too short even for the least bulky subjects .
In addition to this question of absolute body mass , there appear to be quite marked variations in different species .
Thus , it by no means follows that animals of species A will stand decompression better than much heavier animals of species B. So far as our observations go , the guinea-pig is a peculiarly unfavourable subject , even when young and light animals are used ; in 10 experiments we have had eight talities .
12.7.07.\mdash ; Nine guinea-pigs were exposed to .
for one hour , and decompressed in four seconds .
Eight ( weights , 144 , 72 , 77 , , 81 grammes ) were dead , and the ninth ( 108 grammes ) paralysed , but recovered completely in a few days .
We shall next give details of comparative experiments , which suggest the same conclusion .
Rabbits and Cats or Kittens .
\mdash ; Four rabbits ( about one month old ) , three kittens ( about three weeks old ) were exposed to minutes , and decompressed in seven seconds .
Two rabbits died and one kitten .
-grown cat ( 3 lbs. 2 ) and rabbit ozs .
were exposed to lbs. for 35 minutes .
Decompression time , four seconds .
The cat was dead removal , the rabbit unaffected .
Rabbits and Guinea-pig .
10.5.07.\mdash ; Two young rabbits ( 3 lbs. 6 ozs .
; 3 lbs. 2 ozs one guinea-pig ( 1 lb. 8 ozs .
) exposed .
for 30 minutes , and decompressed in seven seconds .
The rabbits died within 15 minutes , and the died in the night , showing signs of pulmonary haemorrhage .
Rats and Rabbits .
10.7.07.\mdash ; Two rats ( 435 grammes , 87 grammes ) , one rabbit ( 1304 gramnles ) exposed to lbs. for hours , and decompressed in four seconds .
All wero dead on removal .
Evidently these results are indecisive .
Rats and JIice .
7.12.06.\mdash ; Six rals and six mice were exposed to lbs. for 25 minutes , and decompressed in four seconds .
Four rats died ( 162 , 104 , 120 , 152 1907 .
] Influence of Increased Barometric Pressure on .
19 grammes ) , two ( 107 , 87 grammes ) survived .
All the mice survived ( 18 , 18 , 12 , 10 , ] 1 , 10 grammes ) .
24.1.07.\mdash ; Fifteen mice and five rown rats were exposed to for two hours , and decompressed in five seconds .
Three rats and 15 mice were unaffected .
One rat was dead ( froth in heart and veins ) , one paraplegic .
In all our experiments on rats and mice , we find The evidence in favour of the view that mice can stand rapid decompression better than rats is reasonably strong .
Here body is apparently more important than age , rown mice being better subjects than young rats .
Rats and 22.5.07.\mdash ; Two full-grown rats 11 and ozs and three young kittens ( 11 , 11 , 10 ozs .
) were exposed to .
for 55 minutes .
Decompression time , seconds .
One rat was dead on removal ; two kittens the other rat died in a few minutes ; one kitten survived . .
: The air emboli usually observed were present in all three animals .
This experiment shows little advantage on the side of the young animals .
The results we have described may be compared with the observations of earlier workers which we have collected and tabulated .
These seem to show a relative immunity of the smaller animals to rapid decompression , and a death rate of almost 100 per cent. in the case of cats and pressures above six to seven amuspheres .
Messrs. L. Hill and M. Greenwood , Jun. [ Oct. 1 , Table Pressure in atmospheres .
Result .
SparrotY ( Bert ) ( 10 ) .
A few seconds ' 7 A few seconds 8 ( for 5 mins .
) 8 ( for 2 mins .
) 8 ( for 2 ) 9 } mins 10 ( some minutes ) 7 A few seconds 8 ( for 5 mins .
) 8 ( for 2 mins .
) 8 ( for 2 ) 9 } mins 10 ( some minutes ) 8 ( for 5 mins .
) 8 ( for 2 mins .
) 8 ( for 2 ) 9 } mins 10 ( some minutes ) Death .
Nil .
Nil .
Death .
il .
Nil .
Death .
No result , died next day .
Death .
Death .
Mice Phillipon ) ( 11 ) .
Rats ( Bert ) ( 10 ) .
mins .
mins .
A mins .
DeathNilNilNil..( animals ) .
Table VIII .
bbits ( ipon ) 1907 .
] uence of increased Barometric Pressure on Man .
21 Table continued .
Table IX.\mdash ; Catsaras ' Observations on Dogs ( 12 ) .
Messrs. L. Hill and M. Greenwood , Jun. [ Oct. 1 , Further , the observations of L. Hill and J. J. B Macleod led them to conclude that all adult dogs and cats died when decompressed in a few seconds after an hour 's exposure ( or more ) to eight atmospheres .
If the relatiye immunity of small animals be due to the greater velocity of the circulation in them , it follows that any agent which damages or slows the circulation would deprive them of their safeguard .
We have tested this by exposing small animals to air pressure and then pumping chloroform into the chamber , or upsetting a bottle containing the anaesthetic placed inside .
\mdash ; Guinea-pig ( llb .
4 ozs .
) placed in chamber with .
At 11.30 , pressure raised to .
; 11.35 , inning to show of anaesthesia ; 12.12 , decompressed from lbs. in five seconds .
Dead on removal . .
: Heart auricles contained an enormous quantity of froth .
Every vessel examined full of bubbles .
Lungs almost bloodless in appearance .
Renal vessels frothed on incision .
Gall bladder , greatly distended , bile frothed almost like soda water .
Control ) \mdash ; Guinea-pig ( 1 lb. 8 ozs .
) exposed lbs. for 30 minutes , and decompressed in seven seconds .
The animal seemed normal on decompression , but was found dead next day ( Saturday ) . .
( Monday ) : There were signs of pulmonary haemorrhage , but the body was decomposing .
15.5.07.\mdash ; Three young rats ( 4 ozs .
, 3 ozs .
, 2 ozs .
) and a kitten were compressed at 12.50 .
to .
At 2.8 , chloroform was pnmped into the chamber , and at 2.11 , when they were all htly anaesthetised , decompression was effected in five and a-half seconds .
On .
the chamber the kitten and one rat were found dead .
The other two rats died in a few minutes .
P.M. : All exhibited an enormous amount of gaseous embolism except the rat which survived longest , and even in this case manly emboli were seen , especially in the vena cava inferior .
These experiments , especially the last , are in favour of the view that immunity does depend on a rapid circulation .
In considering the practical of our results , it is to be remembered that the conditions enable a small ani1nal rapidly to discharge an excess of dissolved gas also lead to its more rapid saturation .
Hence , short exposures are relatively more erous for small than large animals .
The advantages of smadl body mass and youth should be more apparent among caisson workers thau in operations ; we are not acquainted with any statistics bearing on this point .
It is interesting to note that we have no reason to think that small animals are more susceptible to oxygen ) ning than large ones .
The following observations of L. Hill , J. J. R. Macleod , and C. Ham are suggestive of this : \mdash ; 1907 .
] Influence of Increased rometric Pressure on Man .
23 Table X ( 13 ) .
In the case of the lungs the action of the oxygen is direct , and there is no reason to suppose that the size of the animals should have any influence here .
As to the convulsions , Lorrain Smith ( 14 ) has shown that these are caused not by the amount of oxygen combined , but by the tension of oxygen dissolved in the blood .
Conyulsions are as readily produced in an animal whose blood is half saturated with carbon monoxide as in the normal state .
The immediate factor in their causation is unknown .
Conclusions .
1 .
nlammals are relatively immune from decompression effects .
2 .
This immunity depends on rapidity of circulation , and may be destroyed by damaging the latter with chloroform .
3 .
Age is probably important per se , but of far less importancs than body weight .
We have no convincing proof that two animals of the same weight different ages would exhibit unequal powers .
4 .
There is no evidence that small animals are more quickly poisoned by pressures of oxygen than large ones .
Influence of rometric Pressure on The practical outcome of this research is that men of small body weight and a vigorous circulation should be selected for compressed air works .
REFERENCES .
( 1 ) Quoted by Paul Bert , ' La Pression Barometrique , ' Paris , 1878 , pp. 379\mdash ; 383 .
( 2 ) Quoted by Heller , Mager , and v. Schrotter , 'Luftdruckerkrankungen , etc Wien , 1900 , vol. 1 , p. 276 .
( 3 ) Snell , ' Compressed Air Illness , ' London , 1896 .
( 4 ) W. P. Elderton , " " Tables for Testing the Goodneae of Fit of Theory Observation ' Biometrika , ' vol. 1 , p. 155 , 1903 .
( 5 ) K. Pearson , " " On the Correlation of Characters not Quantitatively Measurable ' Phil. Trans A , 1900 , vol. 195 , pp. 1\mdash ; 47 .
( 6 ) K. Pearson , " " On the Theory of Skew Correlation and Non-Linear Regression ' Drapers ' Company Research Memoirs , ' Biometric Series , No. 2 .
( 7 ) K. Pearson , " " On the Theory of Contingency and its Relation to Association and Normal Correlation 'Drapers ' Company Research Memoirs , ' Biometric Series , No. 1 .
( 8 ) J. Blakeman , " " On Tests for Linearity of Begression in Frequency Distributions ' Biometrika , ' 1905 , vol. 4 , pp. 332\mdash ; 350 .
( 9 J. Blakeman and B. Pearson , " " On the Probable Error of Mean Square Contingency ' ' 1906 , vol. 5 , pp. 191\mdash ; 197 .
( 10 ) P. Bert , ' La Pression Barom ' Table 18 , p. 954 .
( 11 ) Phillipon , ' Comptes Rendus de Acad. d. Sciences , ' 1892 , vol. 115 .
( 12 ) Quoted by Heller , Mage and v. Schrotter , op .
cit. , p. 760 .
( 13 ) Hill and Macleod , ' Journ. of Hygiene , ' 1903 , vol. 3 , p. 401 .
( 14 ) J. Lorrain Smith , " " Pathological Effects to Increased Oxygen Tension , jj ' iourn .
of Physiol 1899 , vol. 24 , p. 19 .

