]\gt ; Mr. J. A. Broun on the June 1 X. ' On the Power of the Eye and the Microscope to se Parallel Lines .
By J. A. BROUN , F.R.S. Received Jun 1875 .
Since Nobert 's test-lines have been elnployed for the purpose of dste ] mining the comparative powers of microscopes , several curious specuL tions have been made and conclusions rrived at by diflerent microscopists as to the ultimate capability of that instrument an eveIl as to the ultimate ntoms of matter .
The lines in Nobert were believed to approach to each other in a regularly dimi nishing series of distances , such that when the intervals left by tb graving-point were about of an English inch wide , no micrc scope , howeyer high the power , could show the separation the lines .
The Jury of the Great Exhibition of 1851 , in the Report ( p. 268 ) , that to see the lines in the first and second of a Nobert 's test-plat of 10 bands a power of 100 was sufficient , whereas to distinguish those of the tenth band a magnifying-power of 2000 was required .
Lardner ( in his Museum of Science and Art ) considered this assertio1 erroneous , and stated that if a power of 100 could show the lines whel there were 11,000 to the inch ( as in the first bftnd ) , a should show the when there 50,000 to the inch ( as in tenth band ) .
As there be no doubt of the accuracy of the statement , there has been considerable difficulty in ascertaining the of the great diflerence betwixt fact and theory ; and the most absurd hy pothoses have been suggested for this end .
This and the speculations ferent microscopists induced me several years ago to begin the exami nation of this question .
The first thing requiring to be clearly undel .
, what the micro scopes were employed to mine , what Nobert 's test-bands really were Some microscopists stated the number of lines to the when theJ could not be seen to be about 80,000 ; whereas Dr. Carpenter vork ou the ]}Iicroscope and its Revel tions ) ' ' it was matter 04 faith whether lines existed at a narrov er hall of inch In this case if the lines 11 ere as as the intervals , the ber to the inch would be 42,000 .
It was then to ere the vidths of the lines and in the different , whethe1 as the intervals would appeal .
equally light , the lines were ; and , finally , Yith reference to the bands in hich the lines eo lose th they could not be seen , hither there -ere liJles { all , or liucs hich really ought to be seen vere the microscope equal to its theoretical whether , in , the failure not rnther the cngraving-machine than in the microscope .
It ils only in 1809 I , through the kindness of Eulenstein , of Dl'esden ( previously of Cannstadt ) , to examine the Power of the Eye and the Microscope .
fied photographs of Nobert 's test-bands by Dr. E. Carter , Surgeon of the U.S. Army .
The resuIts of this examination will be giveu at the end of this note .
I was induced meanwhile to examine the power of the eye , in order to compare it the power of the microscope , to determine hat a microscope of power should be able to sho The ving obseryations had been made , before I cquainted with the ations of Dr. and of Mayer , to lvhich I shall ] lude .
The first question lvhich esented itself to the of the eye to see single ]ines under the illumination of northern sky .
1st observatio black line inch inch , drawn with common -ink on hite papel , and line of same width and length between two black lines , ench inch seeu equally ithin n room lighted by windo to .
at distance of 30 feet , the angle subtended by the )1dth of the lines being 2nd observatio hair , inch id , inches was fixed by dots of gum-arabic to the ) seen against the N.W. by young eye feet ( I could not see it myself at a greater distance than 30 feet ) : the meter of the hair subtended { allgle of the eye .
The saule eye mined fine lines divided on glass at ' of 6 inches , and , other things equal , should been able to see { line inch id that distance .
[ Juue 5 , .
I filld that scc on glass inch loug , iLllgle nearly .
] Dr. Jurin could see a silver -ire ) ditllleter placed ou white paper when the .
subtended llgle of 3 ' and a fibre one fourth the diameter of the it 3rd \mdash ; Whether the of the affccfs its isibilify .
The hair just observed was cut into pieces of different and fixed , as before , to the -pane ; they could bc seen distnnces : \mdash ; Jurin 's on dilit Complote stcnl of Opticks , ' 1738 .
I am cqnaint c Rev translation of 'Conrs coml ) , 1 ) ) ) Mr. J. A. Broun on the [ June 17 The hair inch long was one foot further off than that 2 inch lon on the day preceding ( 2nd observation ) .
The difference was due , partl .
at least , to the diflerent light of the sky .
4 th observatio , \mdash ; The previous observation shows that the line is see ] a distance as the length increases till a limiting angle is lained , after which increase of length has no effect on isibility .
folloving tions were made to determine approximately the which relates visibilit to length .
Lines of different lengths , inch wide , were drawn diiferen slips of )hite paper ( by inches ) ; the papers were pinned success sively to a plank placed vertically in the shade ( out of doors ) with clea sky April , ; the meall of disappear , on retiring an of pproaching the lines as takeJl .
It will be seen as the lengths of the lines creasc in geometrica .
progression ( Jlearly ) , the distances increase progression ( nearly ) .
It has been easy then to represent the gles ( the following equatioJl : . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) where expressed in scconds of , the of the line , is in ullits of inch .
The gree with those observed .
The ugle for square of iJlch c is which is very near to the value ed on a pre ] ious becomes iniil for ( inch ) ; but the not hold for lines in hich the length is less than the vidth .
belong to nother C , that which the lengths of the lines constallt the vs 1dth ) examined the .
of the eye to so single , I sought how this er old bc lore lines thtUlOJlG were ] aced pnrallel to each other , { with cqual to idths .
bc fol.lll , of the mits o one :\mdash ; Power of the Eye and the Microscope .
observatio \mdash ; Fotlr dark-brown hnirs having been arranged on paper tequal intervals by means of modeller 's ched to the ends , and then ixed at the ends , the pnper as cut av ay between the , and the slips paper to hich the ends ere gummed ere Bxed to the window-pane : the diameter of the hairs inch very nearly , the lengths were inch , and the were very nearly the the meter of the , the whole vidth being inch .
The could be seen to bo more one at 28 inches distance , and they could be counted at 21 inches ; the angles tended by the at these distauccs respec It thus appears at a distaltcc1 glcatel thnu ches the four ffirs appealed as one , each hair snbtended ixteell times greater than it could be at alone ( see the observation ) .
This cul'iousf ct wttb out by Dr. essay already cited .
He hcn ) ero nenr to ench othel on the iutel ) even them c.otlld not be perceived when it subtonded angle of 40 single ) could ) seen { an angle of from 2 to 3 secoads .
) made observations on rallel lines neiuly enty nfter Jurin , docs not seem to have remarked this fact * .
The 5th observatio1l 11 as lcp iated ith white a holSC'S tail ; these were { uged at ] in lleiLu diametel of the hair being the .
The be seen to be more than feet hen the snbtended hair ; and the could be mted feet distant , when the angle .
These are bont o than .
the human hairs , the differe ] due to { he ence of light , and perhaps rtly to the length , 11 hich as uot noted 6th obseri ) series lines ) long ere sep rate slips of were fixed successively to the } of a roonl the light fnlling{ngle of abo ] ) ] able contaillS the resuIts of the and hnes of width , tho 8 , . . .
times the vidth of the ) * Mayor 's obsclvations givcn { ; ' 1 ii p. 409 .
Iamuot acqltftintccl wiIh tho Maer 's ) made .
Dr. givcu , us am examplo 01 ) following series : and has shown the ) i ] Mr. J. A. Broun on the [ June 1 When the lines and were , the angle from smallest inch to the largest inch ; the angle the middle 1dth ( is probably connected 1 ith some irregularity : the lines ; the increase of the angle at the greatel distance is probab chiefl .
, due to the constancy of the length of the lines ( see 8th obse vation ) .
When the lines and are unequnl , the angle subtended by tl width of the line diminishes as the increases ; the limitin ang would be that single line inch long and inch would disappear .
7 th observation.\mdash ; It was now sought to in what degree tl angle of visibility for rallcl lines varied the elative darkness the lines , the intervals between the remaining equally bright .
Ox of a veak wing been mixed -ith thirty drops of wate four lines , inch loug , inch , were ( at intervals inch ) with a .
pencil ; the first set received only or coat , the second conts , and five .
The slips of paperhavi ] ] been pinned successively to the wall of the room as before , the followirr are the results of the observations:\mdash ; Distance . .
feet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Angle .
lculated .
59 .
The ] is obselvation iveJl ( 0th observation ) for th same lines vifh n-pen and as black as thoy could be made ollc conts tfered ink did not mnke lines dark those of ; and it is ious that increase of ness after } fifth coat faint little differencc in the visibility of Power of the Eye and the icroscope .
ines .
On the other h , the tint may be made so fnint as to be imperaeptible at 6 inches ( the distance for eye of or )jccts ) .
preceding obsel Vtions are represented nearly by the ing where is the lest anglo ( in seconds ) hich the Lfion of ines n lisible , and is the tint or uumbcl ' of the coats of The calculated 1 lues a iu the Table .
When ( of the first tint ) tho linos , to should been just visil ) at 8 from the shadc on white than made by one drop of the drops of water could not becll seen .
hau , the difference of the angle of visibilify from for oJnt c ness is .
The constants iu this orhcr depend of course on lious circumstances of illuminalio]l , the of the individual eye , \amp ; c. Mayer made a series of ittions allel 1 with China ink paper ell ) , of ' in one of ] These lines he could to be se } ) hnce the li , .
from opcu ] subtellded by the Sme lines lighted by placed them .
I give for of lines ll with the preceding for considered tlmt ] ) ) I ing anglo ] to I the cnndlo from the ) . . . . . . . .
where is in ' .
XXTIT . .
J. A. Broun on the [ June same lines in full daylight was , by substituting this vnlue in ( 3 ) , he found foot ; and ' ' we may conclude he says , " " that th ' of is as that of a candle at one fifth a foot from the object .
Consequently if we to light an object with a candle strongly it ould be by daylight [ and even by strong sunlight , as found ] , we must employ twenty-five lighted candles placed of one foot from the object\ldquo ; Ifad mula been an exact representation of the obserYations hc concluded that the eye could separate parallel lines as well ifh -iive candles at ome foot distance as with full ; but seen that the errors of the increase increnscs and dimimshes .
equation of the givell by ]}ayer hich best represcnts the observations is found by least squares to be but this also when is .
The following equation best represents ]} 's obseryations , including that for daylight:\mdash ; .
When .
The of this equation are given in the preceding Table .
But it be seen here also , from the distances of the observer ( which I have culated the angles given by ) , that when the nces d of the cnndle inorease iu a geometrlcal progression , the distances diminish in an progression as nearly as the accuracy of the observations admit .
This fact I myself verified by ting l\ldquo ; obseryations .
We may.then represent the obtions by equation of the same form as the othel.s .
Ihe following its computed errors iven in the Tnble : \mdash ; It from this formula when the ndle is 140 feet from the paper , the eye at inches from it could just see the lines and ; foot , , the smallest mder which the lines and cttll be seen .
It been supposed that the distance of the ' from the vary invclsely as the illumination , or that should , it be sccn , is very far from being the case .
Th ntion piously given represents more the cnse of the ] of lcst-lines on glass , the being cqunlly bright , or , in hilc the il ) nriable of tiollS both spnccs less as the cnndlc is .
The impression on { -hc for tion of , ' Coul .
complct Optiqne , .
p. 416 . .
Or , ] Power of the Eye and the Microscope .
ines receives no improvement in case by any incre of depth tint of the lines feeble shade , in the byer 's ) case by any increase of the both lines eyond that of a candle hcld no 8 th vatio \mdash ; It as sought hither the isibility of lines lcreased with their length , iu of long arallel lines ving been , of the }}1dth { thd at tho inch , on a sheet of white ){lpcr , this was before , to mooth and placed in the opell hc befolG slset ) ; be lines were ered by sheet of sfile ) tpei so to angths .
The following the is the distance of the the ngth of lines , is the angle subtended by the len gth at ] cyc tended by the width of lines , is formula:\mdash ; , . . .
, . . . . .
where , the length of the ] , is ) in of ) variation of the angle is { .
The } of riation of seems to change hcn the of tlJc lines becomes less than the vidth of the whole .
9th \mdash ; The bserl :ions parallel lines the hfilc ] of as in the lnst The tions nre ) hc , . . . . .
It will be seen tha the ) iucrcascs 530 Mr. J. A. Broun on the [ June nishes ; on the other hand , , the angle subtended by the length of th lines , decreases much more rapidly .
In this case , as in that of the observation , we find and are connected nearly by the followin formuh:\mdash ; constant lOth rvation.\mdash ; The long parallel lines were seen by different sons at a greater when inclined to the by an angle about below it to the and above it to the lefti , but the visi bility varies at different angles for difleremt persons .
11 th observation.\mdash ; Jurin 's observations of the difference of visibility parallel lines and a single line had reference to the case of..only two blac } lines with a white line between .
On comparing the distances at which ] parallel lines could be seen inch long and of the same width an interval as before inch , it was found that it was most difficult separate the lines when there were only two .
The following the servations made : Number oflines , D. .
in .
1 . . . . . . . . . . . .
500 2 . . . . . . . . . .
, .
134 62 3 . . . . . . . . . . . .
150 55 4 . . . . . . . . . . . .
172 48 As my object at present has been simply to the facts obsel.ved , 1 shall now to my examination of the photographs of Nobert 's testbands .
The use of these I owed to the kindness of .
Eulenstein histologist well ctcquainted with the microscope and its tests ) , who informed me that these lines were made with the same diamond-point , but that the pressure on the point is to increase as the number of lineE to the inch diminishes .
The widths of the lines and of interspaces were measured by me by means of a glass scale ccurately divided with one thousand divisions to the inch , the dividing lines being about one tentb the width the interspaces .
This scale ) one half on thin white , the other covering the photographed lines .
The readings rear made with the aid of a pocket-lens of inch focal distance .
The width of every line and intersp measured for the first six bands ; from cight to ten lines fUld spaces -ere sured f the VII.th to the XIII.th inclusive ; in each case the of these measures are given .
the remaining bnnds the ) of lines their spaces vere counted their whole width obserYed to the .
Iu the XVllI.th thd XIX.lh ballds the lines ruu into each other in ( in some of the } ious ballds ] casionally fail ) .
It was ident that for he the machine iled to the numbel .
of separnte hich drawn .
In cases diffraction-fringes interfered the of lres ; but these -ere genernlly mnde \mdash ; Power of Eye and the Microscope .
rrom bands near the middle of the photographs , thers could be no doubt whether the lime was a or not .
The following Table contains the results of these obserYittions : Measures of Nobert.sTest-liJles .
.\mdash ; These measnres are frequently lpproximntiollS ; i11 several binds the graving-point has a wonderful ppro itch to an lnlity of of lines Spaces ; indeed these lines are of skill .
If , in cilsc of the first ttnd last lines had been ) longer th ) he rest , it old Lave been possible to measurs the 1dth of a iine with C the ibility of a single line is ncarly enty times that for the beries .
Tho idths of the lines snd spaces are those t.akell , the lllib being inch .
photographs are )inlCS .
] XVIII .
second measures are given from ] ) to 1600 imcs , I reduced to the same unit ) .
The number oflines in fcd : the total width was measured .
The number for XTX.t II deduced the snrc of a fow the lines were most distinct .
of ] to the numbers which could bo put iu by ) ) .
Both\ldquo ; is given number The Ratio\ldquo ; is that of the number for I } ) I for ths widest line or spctce in the folloning bnnds .
It will be seen that the least of the lines ) ) measured on the is bout of ) .
We hnve se ] ) ) bc with ) of so that liucs stoppingho ] of 1 On the Power of the Eye and the Microscope .
[ June ] , of an inch wide should be seen with a power of 125 , and counted power 1CO ( the for the unaided eye being considered 8 inch , We , howevel .
, obviously in the high bands to include the case of seryation 7 , the on the photographs being excessively faint .
Wh add to his fact ( a most important one when such lines are suppos. .
to give some of the power of the microscope ) that it appears th rate lines cannot be dralvn of a less width than about inch ]lder the pressure Mr. Nobert 's machins the -point slidin into previous grooves , we a sufficient planation why the power of the microscope cannot be measured by lines .
The ving al.e the conclusions of this note:\mdash ; 1st .
That lines can be seen by the eye with transmitted lig the vidth hich subteads an angle of about ( observation ) .
2nd .
the visibility of a line , or the distance at which it can be see depends on the logarithm of its length , the product of the by the -1dth and the cube root of that subtended by the length being constant ( 4th observation ) .
3rd .
Short parallel lines could be seen by transmitted light when angle formed by the width of the spaces was ation ) .
4th .
The visibility ]ines of the same width as the distan between them decreases ( 6th observation ) .
5th .
The visibility parallel lines depends on the darkness of shnde or tint of the lines up to a certain feeble tint , after which no blac of the lines the visibility ; tho distance to which the lines be seen depends on , lvhere is a constant and is the number of tint or shade ( the number of weak tint ) tion ) .
Cth .
The visibility of lines lighted with candle depen on the logarithm the distance of the candle from the lines ; and can be seen as wcll with a ndle placed quite near ns with the strong .
This results from Tobias lIayer 's tiollS .
7th .
The isibility of llel lines depends on the logttrithm of , as in the of single lines , the riafion being much short ones .
Also for short rallel lines tl product ' is nearly constant , as for single lines ( see second 8th .
lines lenst visible are only two , and -isibility their mber .
( -lines fail as ) tcst for fheJnicroscopo , : hest , from the inc pacity of hc to lines at less intervnls and of less thttll of inch ; they fail , robability , accoullt of the tness of or of tl on he retina .

