352 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
a bulb and isolated by reflection at a crystal face will depend to a certain extent upon the state of working of the bulb . . .
In conclusion , I wish to express my indebtedness to Prof. W. H. Brag , F.E.S. , for his kindness in putting his spectrometer at my disposal , without which the work could not have been undertaken .
Also , my best thanks are due to Prof. A. W. Porter , F.R.S. , for the valuable help he has given me throughout the course of the work .
Selenic Acid and Iron.\#151 ; Reduction of Selenic Acid by Nascent Hydrogen and IIydroge7i Sulphide.\#151 ; Preparation of Ferrous Selenate and Double Selenates of Iron Group .
By A. E. H. Tutton , D.Sc .
, M.A. , F.E.S. ( Received February 7 , 1918 .
) ^ Exceptional difficulties have been met with in the preparation of the iron ( ferrous ) group of double selenates of the monoclinic isomorphous series R2M 0\#177 ; ) , 6TI20 , and some new and unexpected chemical facts have been revealed , which form the subject of this communication .
When the author , in pursuing the course of the crystallographic and physical investigation of the double selenates of this grand series on exactly parallel lines to those followed in the completed investigation of the corresponding double sulphates , arrived at the iron group , three difficulties were encountered .
The first was that of preparing the simple salt ferrous selenate , common to the group .
The second was the rapid decomposition , with brown deposition , of the aqueous solution of any ferrous selenate obtained , also that of the mixed solution obtained by adding to the latter solution a solution of the molecular equivalent of the alkali selenate , with the object of preparing any one of the four salts of the group , K2Fe(Se04)2,6H20 , Eb2Fe(Se04)2,6H20 , Cs2Fe(Se04)2,6H20 , ( NH4)2Fe(Se04)2,6H20 .
The third difficulty was offered by the fact that no crystals of the potassium ferrous salt were ever obtained at all .
Selenic Acid and The author 's first efforts to obtain these salts were made eight years ago in the cases of the potassium and rubidium salts .
The result was that , under conditions which were obscure , but undoubtedly included a moderately low temperature , it being winter time , one excellent and permanent crop of rubidium ferrous selenate was obtained , the small quantity employed of the ferrous selenate constituent having been obtained by very prolonged action of a very considerable quantity of moderately dilute selenic acid on much iron wire , the action being very slight .
All other solutions of the constituents of this salt , and all the solutions of the constituents of potassium ferrous selenate , decomposed with much brown ferric precipitation , and no trace of the potassium salt crystals was ever obtained .
In attempting to prepare ferrous selenate , it is , of course , impossible , on account of the instability of ferrous hydrate , to employ the excellent method used with so much success by the author in the preparation of the zinc group of double selenates , namely , the preparation of the pure precipitated hydrate of the metal , and its subsequent solution in pure , moderately dilute ( 0-7 grm. H2Se04 per cubic centimetre ) selenie acid .
Eecourse was therefore made to the apparently obvious method of dissolving metallic iron in more or less dilute selenic acid , using iron wire , keeping the temperature low , and excluding air as one does when preparing ferrous sulphate solution for standardising permanganate , by working in a vessel filled with carbon dioxide or other inert gas .
But , contrary to what one would expect from text-book statements , * the anticipated reaction , analogous to that with sulphuric acid , Fe + H2Se04 = FeSe04 + H2 , ( 1 ) does not occur to any visible extent , no bubbles of gas making their appearance .
Heating is excluded , as any ferrous salt produced would be oxidised to ferric .
After some hour3 in the cold , however , the irdn becomes covered with a red film of elementary selenium , which still more retards further action .
Even after several weeks of time , the greater part of the iron remains undissolved in presence of excess of selenic acid , but is coloured bright red from deposited selenium .
It would thus appear that the nascent hydrogen liberated as the effect of the very slow operation of reaction ( 1 ) reduces selenic acid in accordance with the equation 6H + H2Se04 = Se + 4H20 .
( 2 ) * 'Watts ' Dictionary of Chemistry ' ( Muir and Morley ) states :\#151 ; Dilute H2Se04Aq .
dissolves many metals , with evolution of hydrogen .
" Roscoe and Schorlemmer 's ' Treatise on Chemistry ' states :\#151 ; " Iron , zinc and other metals dissolve with evolution of hydrogen .
" Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
The net result , therefore , of such slow action as occurs between iron and selenic acid may be expressed by the combined equation .
3Fe + 4H2Se04 = 3FeSe04 + Se + 4H^0 .
( 3 ) The length of time occupied in obtaining only a small yield of ferrous selenate in solution by this method renders it practically useless , as ferric oxidation supervenes , and also the solution is so dilute that prolonged evaporation , again accompanied by destructive oxidation , is necessary before crystallisation can occur , either of the ferrous selenate or of the double salt desired and attempted to be prepared by the addition of the calculated quantity of the alkali selenate .
The effect of heating the moderately dilute selenic acid standing over iron wire is to produce a little more selenium , the boiling liquid becoming red , and eventually purplish-red , with the finely divided precipitate , which is not large in quantity , as it takes hours to settle .
No bubbles of hydrogen or other evidence of increased action on the iron are apparent , however .
When zinc is placed in moderately dilute selenic acid , action commences in the cold , bubbles of hydrogen being evolved in considerable quantity , and a deposit of selenium , at first yellow , and later orange and red , is produced in small quantity .
On heating the liquid , the evolution of gas is hastened , and , when the boiling temperature is reached , the coloured deposit almost entirely disappears , no more selenium being deposited , and the original quantity becoming condensed and less visible .
When moderately dilute selenic acid is poured on magnesium , rapid and violent action , accompanied by hissing , is produced , the liquid becoming heated almost to boiling ; there is a copious evolution of hydrogen and precipitation of red selenium , the magnesium being almost immediately dissolved .
Thus , in the case of zinc , the reaction with selenic acid is almost entirely the simple one , Zn + H2Se04 = ZnSe04 + H2 , there being only a slight reduction of the selenic acid by nascent hydrogen .
In the case of magnesium , however , while the main reaction is the intense one , Mg + H2Se04 = MgSe04 + H2 , the secondary reaction ( 2 ) , the reduction of selenie acid by nascent hydrogen , occurs also to a considerable extent .
Among the salts prepared by Haldor Topspe , and described by him in his well known dissertation in the year 1870 , * and used by him in the year 1874 for the still more celebrated optical investigation of the crystals in collaboration with C. Christiansenf ( Professor of Physics at the University * 4 Krystallogr.-kem .
Unders .
over de selensnre Salt , ' Copenhagen , 1870 .
t 4 Ann. Chim .
Phys. , ' Series 5 , vol. 1 , p. 83 ( 1874 ) .
Selenic Acid and Iron .
of Copenhagen from 1886 to 1912 , whose regrettable death on December 28 , 1917 , has just been announced ) , was ammonium ferrous selenate , and , from the very meagre details given in Tops0e s dissertation , it would appear that the ferrous selenate was obtained by solution of natural crystals of chalybite ( Eisenspath ) , FeC03 , in selenic acid .
This is specifically stated to have been so with respect to potassium ferrous selenate , of which Tops0e states that he obtained a few poor crystals , which , however , became dull and decomposed immediately on removal from the mother liquor .
He gives very rough , merely approximate , measurements of four interfacial angles of the crystals of the potassium salt , but Tops0e and Christiansen make no mention of the salt in the joint paper , so that it is obvious no attempt was made at the optical investigation of the crystals .
On attempting to employ this method , using some excellent crystals of chalybite supplied by Mr. Gregory , the action of selenic acid , both moderately concentrated and dilute , on the mineral in the cold ( heat having to be avoided on account of oxidation ) was .
found to be so excessively slow that , even after the expiration of several weeks , the reaction was only very partial , affording every opportunity for ferric oxidation .
The solution of ferrous selenate obtained was excessively dilute , and contained much excess of selenic acid .
It required so long for evaporation to the crystallising stage , even under very reduced pressure over oil of vitriol , that the greater part had oxidised and deposited brown ferric products before it could afford either ferrous selenate crystals or , when mixed with the concentrated solution of an alkali selenate , the desired crystals of any one of the double selenates .
Early in the year 1912 the author enquired of the firm of Merck , of Darmstadt , who had supplied the large stock of selenic acid used in these investigations , whether they were able to supply a specimen of ferrous selenate .
A reply in the affirmative was received , to the surprise of the author , who at once gave an order .
After a considerable lapse of time , a further communication was received from the firm , to the effect that they had met with unexpected difficulties in carrying out the order , but hoped shortly to be able to supply the salt .
The author wrote suggesting that perhaps they would more easily be able to supply ferrous ammonium selenate , and a reply was received that they hoped to supply both .
However , several months later in the year , a final letter was received from the firm regretting their inability to carry out the undertaking , as their experiments had proved unsatisfactory on account of decomposition of the products obtained .
On the completion of the work on the nickel double selenates , described in Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
the author 's last communication , * the study of the iron group was taken up once more .
Happily , after many experiments and much expenditure of valuable selenic acid , a successful method of preparing ferrous selenate has been found , in the action of selenic acid on ferrous sulphide .
The reaction not only proceeds steadily and rapidly in the cold , but affords a ferrous product practically without a trace of ferric oxidation , the sulphuretted hydrogen evolved and partially remaining in the solution preserving by its reducing properties the selenate of iron in the ferrous state .
The filtered liquid product may be employed directly for the preparation of the double selenates , by the addition to it of the solution ( as concentrated as desirable ) of the calculated molecular proportion of potassium , rubidium , csesium , or ammonium selenate .
The ferrous sulphide should be as free from metallic iron as possible ( see later ) , the best of that supplied as pure , in small cylindrical sticks , for the preparation of sulphuretted hydrogen serving admirably , and the moderately concentrated acid ( 0*7 grm. H2Se04 per cubic centimetre ) is very suitable .
The ferrous sulphide was broken into small pellets and coarse powder , and placed in a small glass decomposition vessel , a 50 c.c. weighing bottle being found very convenient , the sulphide of iron occupying about a quarter of its capacity .
It was closed by a rubber stopper pierced by two holes , one of which admitted a dropping funnel containing 10-15 c.c. of the selenic acid ( of the known strength 0*7 grm. of H2Se04 per cubic centimetre ) , the exact quantity to be used having been measured from a burette ; the other aperture was fitted with an exit tube for leading away the sulphuretted hydrogen gas evolved .
Neither tube emerged below the lower level of the stopper .
The selenic acid was dropped in very slowly , with shaking to break up any large bubbles or frothing produced by the immediate and steady liberation of the hydrogen sulphide , and prevent loss of liquid0 through the exit tube .
After all had been added , the last few drops of the selenic acid moistening the dropping funnel were washed in with not more than 2 c.c. of distilled water .
It is very undesirable to render the liquid in the decomposition vessel too dilute , for the reason already mentioned that no concentration ' either by prolonged standing or by warming can be indulged in without loss by ferric oxidation .
In order to keep down rise of temperature , which is not inconsiderable if unchecked , the lower two-thirds of the decomposition vessel is with advantage immersed in a dish of cold water .
It is also important not to use a larger vessel than indicated , in proportion to the scale of the preparation , in order that as little air may be present as possible ; what is * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 217 , p. 199 ( 1917 ) .
i Selenic Acid and Iron .
357 unavoidably present at first is rapidly driven out by the evolved hydrogen sulphide . .
The reaction is mainly the following FeS + H2Se04 = FeSe04 + H2S .
( 4 ) But almost from the first it is obvious that this is not the only reaction occurring .
For the liquid is seen to develop a precipitate which is at first yellow , then orange , and latterly dark red , and which contains both sulphur and selenium , and which is produced in accordance with the further equation:\#151 ; 3H2S + H2Se04 = Se + 3S + 4H20 .
( 5 ) The total or net result of the operation of both reactions may be expressed by the single equation :\#151 ; ?
3FeS + 4H2Se04 = 3FeSe04 + Se + 3S + 4H20 .
( 6 ) But reaction ( 6 ) is not followed quantitatively , for a considerable amount of hydrogen sulphide unmistakably escapes , so that the operations have to be carried out either in a draught chamber or in the open air .
Selenic acid , under these circumstances , is thus reduced to elementary selenium by hydrogen sulphide , contrary to the usual statement in textbooks of chemistry , due originally to Mitscherlieh , * that sulphuretted hydrogen is without action on selenic acid.f The fact that this is an error has also been recently observed independently by E. B. Benger , J who found , for instance , that a 10-per-cent , solution of selenic acid at 45 ' C. was completely decomposed by hydrogen sulphide in 14 hours .
The amount of reduction increases with the temperature and concentration , and is also a function of the time .
The reaction is allowed to complete itself for an hour or two , and the , contents of the decomposition vessel are poured off the excess of ferrous sulphide on to a filter .
The clear liquid running from the latter is of a pale green colour , and is allowed to fall into a crystallising dish or small beaker .
If required for the preparation of one of the double selenates , as in the author 's case , the fairly concentrated and recently filtered solution of the selenate of potassium , rubidium , caesium , or ammonium is added in equal molecular Quantity .
All these alkali selenates have been prepared by the * 'Ann .
Phys. , ' [ 1 ] , vol. 9 , p. 629 ( 1827 ) .
t 'Watts ' Dictionary of Chemistry ' ( Muir and Morley ) states that " the acid is not reduced by sulphur dioxide nor by sulphuretted hydrogen ; " and a precisely similar statement is given in Poscoe and Schorlemmer 's ' Treatise on Chemistry .
' x 'Journ .
Amer .
Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 13 , p. 2171 ( 1917 ) .
This paper has only just ( January , 1918 ) come into the author 's hands , after the author has been employing the reaction for over a year .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
author in considerable quantities , and stored in the form of excellent crystals , in an efficient desiccator , as they are all more or less deliquescent , and cesium selenate extremely so .
They were made by the action of selenic acid on the carbonates of the three alkali metals , and in the case of ammonium selenate by saturating selenic acid with ammonia gas under precautions to keep the liquid cool .
It is always best to filter before using the solutions of any of these selenates , as a trace of decomposition by light occurs on keeping , a little red selenium being liberated .
The crystals of the selenates should , therefore , be kept in the dark when not required .
Having added the alkali selenate to the solution of ferrous selenate , in the amount only very slightly less than that calculated for equal molecular proportions based on the volume of selenic acid of known strength used in preparing the ferrous selenate ( for only a slight amount is lost by reaction ( 5 ) ) , the clear mixed solution is rendered just distinctly acid by the addition of a drop of selenic acid and placed under the receiver of an air pump ; after the reduction of the pressure by the working of the pump , the solution is left to crystallise , a vessel of oil of vitriol being also included as usual under the receiver in order to absorb the water vapour evaporated .
The room should be cold and the receiver protected from draughts and vibrations .
After a fairly cold night crystals ( except in the case of potassium ferrous selenate ) will usually be found next morning , and they should be removed , dried on blotting paper , and stored in small stoppered bottles before the temperature rises appreciably with the sun .
This mode of preparing ferrous selenate and the double selenates of the iron group has two outstanding advantages ; ( 1 ) the ease and rapidity with which the reaction proceeds in the cold , and ( 2 ) the prevention of oxidation to the higher ferric state by the reducing power of the hydrogen sulphide passing through the liquid , and to a slight extent remaining dissolved in it .
The presence of a small quantity of metallic iron in the ferrous sulphide is obviously without deleterious effect , as it is practically without action on selenic action in the time employed , especially so long as any ferrous sulphide is present unattacked .
If the green solution of pure ferrous selenate obtained after filtration of . .
the contents of the decomposing vessel be itself allowed to crystallise under the receiver of the air pump , the crystals obtained are those of the monoclinic salt FeSe04,7Ho0 , isomorphous with the common form of sulphate of ferrous iron , FeS04,7H20 .
The crystals are much less stable , however , than those of ferrous sulphate , and rapidly decompose and become opaque , so that no goniometrical work of real value has yet been possible with them .
In the light of what has been accomplished with potassium ferrous selenate , i Selenic Acid and Iron .
however , it is hoped after the completion of the present plan of research to do as much for the fugitive crystals of this salt .
Tops0e only obtained three roughly approximate angular measurements , which are recorded on p. 33 of his already quoted dissertation .
Wohlwill , * who first obtained the salt , was quite unable to obtain any measurements , as his crystals effloresced and decomposed immediately on removal from the mother liquor .
Wohlwill also obtained a pentahydrated salt FeSe04,5H20 , in a triclinic form resembling that of copper sulphate , CuS04,5H20 , but , in this case also , the crystals decomposed so rapidly that work with them was out of the question .
The crystals of rubidium ferrous selenate , caesium ferrous selenate , and ammonium ferrous selenate , obtained by the author 's method now described , have proved excellent for goniometrical and physical investigation , and the results obtained with them are described in a memoir of which the following communication is an abstract , the full paper being published in the ' Philosophical Transactions .
' Happily it has also been possible to include in the memoir a full crystallographic and physical description of potassium ferrous selenate , although this salt is so unstable that the crystals become quite opaque and dull from decomposition in half-a-day 's time after removal from the crystallising vessel .
Five hours are the limit of time possible for goniometrical , optical , or specific gravity work with them .
Immersion under benzene , or painting with balsam dissolved in benzene , immediately after removal from the mother liquor and momentary drying with a soft absorbent handkerchief , preserves their lives possibly for a couple of hours longer , but even then by the end of the day they are opaque and afford no reflection , and by next morning they are like porcelain .
A fresh preparation ( for rarely can more than one crop be obtained from any one preparation ) is consequently required for every day s work on this salt .
This has involved immense labour and expenditure of the expensive selenic acid .
For , as already mentioned , the greatest difficulty of all has been to produce any crystals whatever of this salt , and many preparations of the solution have been made without success in obtaining the crystals .
It has only been at the opening of the present year , 1918 , that the author , after attempts spread over eight years , has succeeded at last in preparing them .
The former attempts , although made in the winter , had never happened to synchronise with the minimum temperature of a particularly severe winter .
Surmising that the critical upper temperature limit for the existence of this salt , K2Fe ( Se04)2,6H20 , was not more than 2 ' or 3 ' C. above the freezing Uber isomorphe Mischungen der selensauren Salze , ' Dissertation , Gottingen , 1860 , Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
point of water , arrangements for several new preparations were made at the beginning of January , during the most severe cold spell of this winter , , which happened also to be a " record " one for Devonshire .
Carrying out the first of these preparations exactly as already described , the mixed solution of ferrous selenate and potassium selenate , in as closely equal molecular proportions as possible , and in as concentrated a form as was judged suitable , was left to crystallise under reduced pressure over oil of vitriol one evening in the first week of January , when the temperature outside was well below that of the freezing point of water , and the temperature of the laboratory during the succeeding night fell to within a degree of the freezing point .
Next morning the author was delighted to find a most satisfactory crop of clear transparent pale-green crystals of the salt , single individuals of quite suitable goniometrical and optical sizes , and obviously of the expected symmetry , the disposition of faces being exactly that characteristic of the potassium salts of the double sulphate and selenate series .
Work was carried out with them from the moment they were removed from the mother liquor and superficially dried , and was able to proceed for five to six hours , beyond which the obvious commencement of decomposition rendered it unwise to proceed further .
The laboratory was unwarmed , so as to prolong the time available as much as possible .
On a warm day or in a warmed room , decomposition is much more rapid .
The next night was not quite so cold and the refiltered solution , again set to crystallise under the receiver of the air pump as before , gave no crystals at all .
On a third night , which was still less cold , a crop of quite different very minute -crystals , useless for goniometry , was obtained , which proved to be those of the dihydrated salt K2Fe(Se04)2,2H20 , which are referred to by Topspe as being deposited on warm days and as being of triclinic symmetry .
Two days afterwards the very cold weather returned and a further entirely new preparation was made ; next morning , after a night of a temperature again closely approaching freezing point in the laboratory , another crop of the unmistakable hexahydrated monoclinic crystals was obtained .
Another satisfactory day 's work was then carried out on them , lasting about five hours before opacity supervened , after which the filtered solution was again set to crystallise , and , this night proving equally cold if not colder , a fine crop of even larger crystals was found next morning , this being the only occasion on which a second crop was obtained from any one preparation .
These were used in further essential measurements as long ( about six hours ) as the transparency sufficed .
Warmer weather again returned , but after nearly a week a final spell of exceedingly cold weather supervened , during which a new preparation was made and a fourth crop of suitable and Selenic Acid and Iron .
beautifully well-formed and transparent crystals of the desired salt were obtained on the night following , which proved to be the coldest night of the winter .
Again a full day of intensive work was put in , and all the essential measurements and observations with the salt were , on this day , fortunately completed .
For the weather again became less severe , and no further crops of the salt have ever been obtained since , all succeeding crops being of the minute crystals of the dihydrated salt , with much ferric decomposition .
The intensive work on these four crops of potassium ferrous selenate crystals has fortunately included the measurement of all the interfacial angles on six excellent crystals , the determination of the density of a considerable number from two crops , and the determination of all the optical constants in triplicate with other crystals , so that a full description of the salt is possible .
The details of the special methods employed in the measurements , and the results , are given in the memoir of which the following communication is an abstract .
The crystals were in excellent condition when used , #and were fine well-developed specimens , and perfectly transparent , so that the results are eminently satisfactory .
The extreme instability of potassium ferrous selenate and the relatively high stability of caesium ferrous selenate , together with the moderate stability of the rubidium salt , afford an excellent example of the progression in stability which , like all the other properties of the salts , follows the order of progression of the atomic weights and atomic numbers of the alkali metals , which by their interchange form the isomorphous group .
For rubidium ferrous selenate is undoubtedly intermediate in stability between the potassium and rubidium salts , being readily formed at a moderately low temperature , whereas the caesium salt may be obtained even during a warm night .
On the other hand , as we have seen , the potassium salt is only formed on the very coldest nights of a specially hard winter , when the laboratory temperature is almost down to 0 ' C.

