]\gt ; Dr. E. F. Armstrong and Mr. R. J. Caldwell .
[ Apr. 5 , If acceptance can be accorded to the arguments put forward in this communication , some progress will have been made towards unravelling the very complex plJenomena presented by fermentative changes .
1820 , 7050 , 8010 .
" " Studies on Enzyme Action .
\mdash ; The Sucroclastic Action of Acids as contrasted with that of Enzymes By EnWAID FRANKLAND ARMSTRONG , Ph. D. , Salters ' Company 's Research Fellow , and ROBERT JOHN CALDWELL , B.Sc. , Clothworkers ' Scholar , Chemical Department , City and Guilds of London Institute , Central Technical College .
Communicated by Professor H. .
ARMSTRONG , F.B.S. .
Received Apri15 , \mdash ; Read April 28 , 1904 .
1820 Milk sugar , hydrolysis by acids .
7050 Hydrolysis of sugars by acids and by enzymes contrasted .
Nature of active system and explanarion of influence of concentration and of temperature .
8010 Enzyme action contrasted with that of aoids .
Not only are the various bioses hydrolysed at very different rates by enzymes but they are also known to differ in their behaviour towards acids : cane sugar being hydrolysed with the greatest facility , whilst maltose is act , ed upon but slowly .
The expsriments described in this communication were instituted primarily with the object of ascertaining the behaviour of milk sugar , of which nothing was known .
The hydrolysis of cane sugar under the influence of acid was carefully investigated by Wilhelmy as far back as 1850 , with the aid of the polariscope , then a new instrument .
It was shown by him that nversion follows the logarithmic law which at a later date became regarded as the general law of mass action .
Subsequent workers have studied ths action more in detail , but the obiect of several of the latter inquiries has been rather to determine the reIative activities of different acids and to study the application of the ionic hypothesis in such a case of hydrolysis .
Maltose has been shown by Sigmond to exhibit ths same general behaviour as cane sugar acids , whilst affording very different constants .
The only other glucose derivative which has been studied is salicin .
* Zeit .
Phys. Chem vol. 27 , p. Noyes and Hall , ' Zeit .
Phvs .
Chem vol. 18 , p. 240 .
Studies on Action .
Since the above was written , a paper has appeared by Noyes and others on the hydrolysis of maItose and dextrin by cids , which in the main confirms Sigmond 's results .
The hydrolysis of starch by dilute acids under pressure at lres about , was studied in detail by Rolfe and Defren in 1896 .
Although behaviour of cane sugar in any particular solution is fairly in accordance with the law of mass action , marked departures from the law are observed in cont the effects produced by varying the concentration whether of sugar or of acid .
Not only does the value of increase as the concentration of the hydrolyte is increased ; it also increases beyond the proportionate value when the concentration oi the acid is increased .
The outcome of the experiments described in the following pages is , briefly stated , as follows : In the first place , it is shown that , within certain limits , milk sugar is hydrolysed in accordance with the logarithmic law ; but that in somewhat concentrated solutions there is a marked tendency for " " reversion\ldquo ; to take place , so that the course of change in the later stages of hydrolysis departs from this law .
The rate at which milk sugar un dergoes hydrolysis compared with that at which cane sugar is affected is shown to be remarkably slow : yet the effect ot increasing the concentration is found to resemble that produced changes of concentration in the case of cane sugar and maltose ; moreover , the products of cha1lge are found to exercise an influence on the rate of change comparable with that exercised by milk itself .
Finally , it is shown that an increase in temperature has even more influence on the rate of change of milk sugar than on that of cane sugar .
Method.\mdash ; The method adopted in determining the rate of change was practically that used by previous workers , but , as milk sugar is hydrolysed very slowly at ordinary temperatures , the experlments were carried out at C. On account of the small change the specific rotatory power which milk-sugar solutions exhibit when hydrolysed , it was necessary to work lvith strong solutions\mdash ; the solution most frequently used contained 18 per cent. of sugar , gramme molecular proportion per litre ; this was hydroIysed by an equivalent solution of chlorhydt'ic acid .
The solutions of acid and sugar , heated to and then mixed , the nlixtue maintained at .
Portions were taken out at stated intervcds of time : each sanlple was quickly cooled and its optical rotatory polver determined in a .
tube .
As the heating was extended over several days , it was necessary to cover the tion in the layer of molten parnffin .
In order to make no had taken place , the solution was with the end of * ' J. Am .
Chem. Soc 1904 , vol. 26 p. J. Am . .
Soc. , vol. 18 , p. 869 .
Dr. E. and Mr. R. J. Caldwell .
[ Apr. 5 , each experiment .
In order to mine the end value , a portion of the solution was heated on the water bath during 2 hours , a period which sufficed to effect complete hydrolysis without giving rise to any marked secondary change such as always occurs on prolonged heating at the temperatures at which the rate of change was studied .
The ratio between the rotatory power at complete change and the initial value was found , as the mean of three accordant observations , to be The results of a complete series of tions are recorded in the following table .
It is to be noted that in calculating the constant from the logarithmic equation , is taken in minutes .
To make the results comparable with those of other workers , the velocity constant is expressed in terms of a gramme molecular proportion of acid per litre ; this merely involves the multiplication of the constant deduced from the results approximately by two .
Table I.\mdash ; 18 per cent. ( gramme molecule ) Milk Sugar , gramme molecule HC1 .
Temperature Time ) .
drolysed .
0.0 184 Mean Complete change In a second series of experiments , the value deduced from the first eight successive observations\mdash ; during which about two-thirds of the sugar had undergone change\mdash ; was In the interests of space , as the quotation of long of values serves no useful purpose , in discussing our remaining observations it will suffice , as a rule , to give the mean value of obtained in the manner described .
It is , of course , to be understood that is derived from less than six accordant readings taken at regular intervals during a period of 30\mdash ; 40 hours .
It will be seen that after about 40 hours , when hydrolysis is half 1904 .
] Studies on Bnzyme Action .
completed , the values in the last column are no constant but increase ; after 134 hours , tlJe value of actually rises above that corresponding to complete conversion into glucose and galactose .
This increase was presumably to be scribed to the formation of compounds of high specffic rotatory power from the oducts of chnn .
: to test the correctness of this riments made in which solutions of glucose and galactose were heated at during several hours with chlorhydric acid of the -strength nsed in the previous experiments .
As Tables II and III show , in each case , a rise in was observed but the tory power did not become constant mtil after about 250 hours , rium being only slowly established between the monosaccharide and its reversion products .
The departnre during the later part of hydrolysis from the logarithmic } may therefore with some degree of probability be ascribed to some form of reversible change .
It may be pointed out that Wohl* has observed a similar change in highly concentrated solutions of glucose and fructose when these are heated with small quantities of chlorhydric aoid the water bath ; and that Fiscber prepared the biose isomaltose by the action of cold strong chlorhydric acid on glucose .
Table II .
27 per oent .
Glucose .
Successive Time in increase hours . .
per houY .
Table III .
27 per cent. Galactose .
Time h1 hours .
) .
per hour .
43 .
Hydrolysis of Maltose .
wing to the great val.iation in the value of produced by alterations in concentration and tenlperature , was impossible to compare our results for nulk sugar directly with of Sigmond maItose .
Accordingly , the value of was determlned for maltose under the conditions observed in our experiments with milk sugar .
* ' Ber 1890 , , p. 2081 .
I , vol. 23 , p. 3687 .
'it .
Dr. E. F. Armstrong and Mr. B. J. Caldwell .
[ Apr. 5 , Table per cent. ( gramme molecule ) maItose , gramme molecule HC1 .
Temperature Time in hours .
bydrolysedPercent .
9.94 Complete change Mean It will be noted that the values in the last column begin to fall after 60 hours , when about three-quarters has undergone change .
As the hydrolysis of maltose is carried to an end , the value of falls to a minimum , then rises slightly , finally remaining steady ; the theoretical minimum rotation , however , is never attained .
This is easily explicable as the consequence of the secondary changes brought about by the action of the acid on the glucose .
The following table shows at a glance the vast difference in the values of for milk sugar and maltose as compared with that for cane sugar .
This last value has been calculated with the aid of Arrhenius 's temperature equation from the value at given by Ostwald .
Table Milk sugar MaItose Cane sugar Although it is not yet possible to explain this very striking dffierence , it must be remembered that cane sugar has a peculiar ucture : maltose and milk sugar are closely related in structure , one-half of the molecule still showing the properties of glucose ; but cane sugar has none of the properties either of glucose or of fructose .
Influence of oncentration of te.\mdash ; Whereas , in the case of enzymes , an increase in the concentration of the sugar never ncreases the rate of hydrolysis , in the case of acids an increase in the concentration of the hydrolyte actually hastens the rate of change .
This 1904 .
] on Enzyme Action .
is known to be true both of cane sugar and of maItose .
Our experiments show that it is equally true of milk sugar .
Using a half normal ( gramme molecular ) solution of HC1 , we found that has the following values:\mdash ; Table Concentration of sugar .
K. 9 per cent. these figures the following empirical law may be deduced connecting with , the concentration in grammes per 100 .
: .
Arrhenius has cnlated a similar expression from Spohr 's results for cane sugar , .
It would , therefore , appear that the rate at which hydrolysis takes place is more than twioe as much influenced by changes in concentration in the case of milk sugar than in that of cane sugar .
Influencof Products of Change.\mdash ; The influence of the products of change on the rate of hydrolysis is of particular interest in view of the resuIts obtained with enzymes .
In the case of acids the products accelerate instead of retarding the change but they exercise no selective influence ; moreover , about the same effect is produced by the addition of equal weights of glucose , of galactose or of milk sugar or even of the equivalent quantity of a neutral salt .
Amount added to 18 per .
solulion of milk sugar .
K. grammes milk sugar 4 10 , , glucose , 1st expt .
3 89 , , , , 2nd , , . .
, , galactose . .
, , potassium chloride . . . .
3 79 Hydrolysis by Sulphuric experiments were made , with an acid equivalent in strengtb to the chlorhydric acid used in the experiments previously referred to .
VOL. LXXIII .
Dr. E. F. Armstrong and Mr. R. J. Caldwell .
[ Apr. 5 , Table VIII .
per cent. ( gramme molecule ) Milk Sugar , gramme molecule .
Temperature Time in hours .
Complete change 24 89 Mean In a second experiment a value was obtained .
The value for thus arrived at is muoh smaller than that deduced from the experiments with chlorhydric ttcid ; but if the comparison be made for acids of the same molecular strength the results are nearly identical , since 2 It will be noticed that in this instance there is little or no evidence of reversion .
Influ of Temperature.\mdash ; We have determined the rate at which milk sugar undergoes hydrolysis at temperatures in order to be able to contrast its behaviour respect with that of other sugars .
The following table gives the values of at three temperatures obtained on hydrolysing a solution containing grammemolecular proportion of milk sugar by means of a gramme-molecular proportion chlorhydric acid .
Temperature .
K. 3.53 99 ( approx. ) 334 2 It is apparent from these numbers that an increase of about 14 per cent. in the value of takes place per degree and that the rate of hydrolysis of milk sugar is even more influenced by temperature than is that of maltose .
The difference is better seen on compar ng the constants calculated for each sugar from Arrhenius 's temperature equation .
Sugar .
Acid .
Cane sugar . . .
HC1 Maltose HC1 Milk sugar. . . . .
HC1 19,105 , , *Arrhenius , Sigmond , 1904 .
] Studies on Action .
It will be seen that the value of the temperature constant for milk sugar is nearly half as great again as that for cane sugar .
That temperature changes have a similar effect on the hydrolysis of milk sugar by sulphuric acid is shown by the following figures , obtained by hydrolysing a proportion soIution of the sugar by means of gramme-molecular proportion acid .
Temperature .
K. Lastly , the effect of adding a gramme-molecular proportion of potassium chloride at the two temperatures was determined ; it will be seen that this salt has a considerably greater accelerating influence at the higher emperature .
Temperature .
with without It is to be noted that maltose and milk sugar ) are hydrolysed at similar rates at ; as the rate of hydrolysis is affected to different extents by a rise of temperature in the two cases , there will be a temperature at which the two should be olysed at the same rate ; and above this temperature milk sugar should be hydrolysed more rapidly than maltose .
The temperature at whioh the two sugars should behave alike , deduced from Arrhenius 's equation , is about ; we intend comparing the hydrolysis of the two sugars at this temperature .
of by Acids .
\mdash ; When the action of enzymes on the sugars is contrasted with that of acids , the enormous difference in the rates at which enzyme and acid effect hydrolysis is very striking ; thus , whereas an extract of lactase prepared as described on pp. 503 to 504 , to which sufficient milk sugar has been added to ve a 5-per-cent .
solution , will hydrolyse about one-fourth of the sugar at in about an hour , it takes twice normal hydrogen chloride at the same temperature about 5 weeks to effect the same amount of hydrolysis .
Nevertheless , a very simple explanation of the action of acids may be given if the problem be considered a of view similar to that applied to enzyme action .
In the first place , it may ) assumed that an system is formed by the combination of part of the sugar with a part of the acid ; and as the water molecules in the solu* Although no infol.mation is present forthcoming admitting of a definile conclusion , it cannot be doubted that the amount of enzynlle mltdc use of in hydrolysing sugars , regarded as a molecular proportion , must be rily small .
Any such conclusion as this makes their action appear all the more remarkable .
534 Dr. E. F. ArmsGrong and Mr. R. J. Caldwell .
[ Apr. 5 , tion attracting both sugar and acid molecuIes , that there is so to speak competition between the water and the sugar for the acid : there will , therefore , be at any given temperature an equilibrium between water , and acid , depending on the relative proportions of these three a change in any one of them will necessarily also change the position of the equilibrium and therefore also the proportion of the combination of acid and sugar present .
At any moment during hydrolysis , the-sugar is not susceptible to change as a whole : only the active system , formed by the combination of acid and sugar , including some limited number of water molecules , is concerned .
In the riments hitherto made the proportion of acid molecules present has always been large , so that the magnitude of the active system present cannot have been negligible compared with the total amount of sugar : in such cases it was not to be expected that the change would prove to be a linear function of the time .
If , however , a proportion of acid be used in some degree corresponding to the proportion of lzyme which is commonly used , it is to be expected that a linear period will be apparent .
To test this point iments were made in which hydrogen chloride was used to hydrolyse a gramme-molecular proportion of sugar at : in every case distinct indication lYas obtained that , at first , equal amounts of sugar were changed in successive equal intervals of time , change proceeding according to the logarithmic law only during the later stages .
It does not ) desirable to put forward our results relating to this question at present , as we not satisfied with the degree of refinement we have reached in our experiments : to deterlnine the law for very small proportions of acid , it will be necessary to make exact observations and especially to regulate the temperature with excessive care , as slight differences in temperature produce reIatively great changes .
Efect of Altering the Amount of Acid.\mdash ; It is well known in the case of cane sugar that an increase in the proportion of acid used to effect hydrolysis is followed by a more than proportionate increase in the rate of change .
The effect of an increase in the amount of acid must obviously be to disturb the equilibrium in the direction of the magnitude of the active system ; it may be supposed that , on the whole , when the amount of acid is increased , the sugar is the greater and that the increase in the active system is , therefore , more than proportionate to the increase in the amount of acid .
Effecf of Alteing the Amount of te.\mdash ; Any considerable increase in the amount of sugar present must have the effect of diminishing the attraction exercised by the upon the acid and equently must increase the stability of the combination of sugar 1904 .
] Studies on Action .
o 35 wich acid\mdash ; in other words , it must materially increase the magnitude of the active system : this would lead to an increase in the rate of change .
Any substance having an attraction for water should exercise a similar influence : it is easy to understand that , in the case of milk sugar , as we have shown , the rate of change is as much acoelerated by either glucose or galactose as it is by nlilk sugar and that the salt , potassium chloride , exercises about the same influence as one of these sugars when used in equivalent amount .
It is known that the hydrolysis of cane sugar is hastened by neutral salts , but it has not been noticed previously that the products of change exerclse an accelerating influence .
Influence of .\mdash ; The effect of temperature on the rate at which chemical changes generally take place has been discussed at length by Arrhenius .
Frankly recognising that the rate at which change increases as temperature rises is too great to be ascribed to an increase of the " " ionisatio1l " " or to a diminution of the viscosity of the solution , Arrhenius has introduced the conception of an active part or mass but without in any way defining the nature of this mass .
ln applying this conception specially to the hydrolysis of cane sugar , he assumes that the formation of the active mass an absorption of heat , and , further , that although it is present in very small proportion relatively to the total sugar , the proportion lncreases rapidly as the temperature rises .
Adopting the he that the active mass mdergoes hydrolys1s at the expense of the hydrogen ions of the acid , at a rate , however , that is almost independent of the temperature .
Availing himself of the equat on which va n't Hoff had put forward to express the alteration of equilibrium with te1nperature in the case of reversible lnteractions , he deduced the expression where and are the velocities two temperaturcs and is the heat absorbed in the formation of the active \mdash ; this being an expression from which it is that a risc temperature should favour the formation of the active and vice rhenlUS applied this expression to a number of simple chemical changes , to cases of hydrolysis , for which the rate ) eeIl measured , and showed that it was in agreement with The idea of an active was extended to the ence of salts : it was rily a by Arrhenius these the proportion of the active mass , they decreased the number of hydrogen ionS .
*Spohr , ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem 1888 , vol. 2 , p. 194 .
'Zcit .
Phys. Chem 1889 , , p. 226 .
Dr. E. F. Armstrong and Mr. R. J. Caldwell .
[ Apr. 5 , In a lengthy paper published 10 years later , in which the results obtained in the meantime by other workers were discussed , he made an important addition to his theol.y by showing that the increase in with concentration is in exact correspondence with the increase of osmotio pressurs of the solution .
He vaguely referred to the influence of neutral saIts as being of the same order as that exercised by an increase in the concentration of the hydrolyte .
Exception taken by Lippmann , in 1900 , to the explanation put by Arrhenius , on the ground that it was impossible , in the case of sugar , to understand how any change could take place which would render one part more active than another .
Lippmann also sharply criticised the attempt made by Euler to interpret the hydrolysis of sugar from a purely ionic standpoint .
Euler'sS answer to these criticisms in no way served to remove the difficulties raised by Lippmann but rather the contrary .
There can be no doubt that in discussing hydrolytic changss generally the conception of an active mass cannot be dispensed with ; it remains only to give precision to the conception by defining the precise character of such a mass .
On the assumption made in this and the two preceding papers , the active mass postulated by Arrhenius is neither more nor less than the system composed of the hydrolyte , the enzyme or acid and a certain limited number of water molecules .
Although the formation of such a system is probably attended with a slight evolution of heat , its immediate breakdown should involve the absorption of heat and this ) ange should be reversible .
Etherification pbenomena generally and the change of isodynamic systems into one another all satisfy these conditions .
There can be little doubt that the breakdown of complex systems , such as are here contemplated , would be most materially influenced by changes in temperature , and the rate of change would advance.rapidly as temperature rose .
The tendency to form such systems would obviously diminish somewhat as temperature rose .
In conclusion , it is desirable to Jay emphasis on the differences noticeable in the behaviour of enzymes and acids respectively as hydrolytic agents : it appears not improbable that this differencs is due mainly , if not wholly , ( 1 ) to the superior affinity of the enzymes for the carbohydrates , ( 2 ) to the very different behaviour of the two classes of hydrolysts towards water\mdash ; whioh is a consequence of the colloid nature of the one and the crystalloid nature of the other .
It appears possible to explain such differences as are apparent in their * ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem 1899 , vol. 28 , p. 317 .
'Ber vol. 33 , p. 3560 .
'Ber vol. 33 , p. ) , and ' Zeit . .
Chem vol. 36 , p. 641 .
S 'Ber , p. 1568 .
'Ber vol. 34 , p. 3747 .
1904 .
] Enzyrne Action , Iornc-Dissociation , and Change .
behaviour to these circumstances alone .
If osmotic pressure be regarded as the outcome of some reciprocal interaction between solvent and dissolved substance rather than as a effect , the fact that the variation in osmotic pressure and in the value of with concentration follow the same law may be taken as evidence that the increase in with concentration when a sugar is hydrolysed with the aid of an acid is the co1lsequen of a diminution in the influence exercised by the water .
7050 , 8020 ; 1230 , 'Enzyme Action as bearing on the Validity of the IonicDissociation Hypothesis and on the Phenomena of Vital Change By HENRY E. ARMSTRONG , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received April 5 , \mdash ; Read April 28 , 1904 .
8030 Formation of cctrbohydrates in Glucosamine , significance of , in enzymes .
On several occasions of late years , I have protested against the dogmatic attitude assumed by the advocates of the ionic-dissooiation hypothesis of chemioal ) have remarked on the danger of allowing a purely mathematical treatment to supersede a careful , unbiased consideration of the facts as these present themselves to the chemist .
I have insisted on the limited application of the hypothesis \mdash ; especially in explanation of the behaviour of the large majority of organic compounds ; ttnd have contended that au assoclatlon hypothesis is preferable and of wider application : yet , .
so doing , I have always recognised that the dissociation hypothesls 1 often susceptible of numerical treatment in way which places it at a great advantage .
Twenty years ago , I contended that the solvent played as inlportant a part as the dissolved in olytlC changes ; tnen and for some time afterwards the dissociationists regarded the solvent as a mere screen .
radually they have been led to recognise that the solvent plays an active part and " " ionising\ldquo ; solvents are now freely spoken of : the admission beelt made , , tacitly and wilhout recognition of the fact the diflerellCG of oplnlon is now reduced to the one question\mdash ; whether ions enjoy separate existence solution : whether , for examplc , in a solution of , free hydroge1l Index suppiied by author , classified aocording to the schedule of national Catalogue of Scientifio Literature .
]

