]\gt ; alcohol and carbon dioxide formed ) roximate to that in ordinary alcoholic fermentation .
( 6 .
) When the cell-juice is allowed to act on either c sugar or dextrose\mdash ; the quantity of sugar which disappears is considerably in excess of that which can be accounted by the production of carbon dioxide and alcohol .
" " On the Thermodynamical Properties of Gases and Vapours deduced from a Modified Form of the Joule-Thomson tion , with Special eference to the Properties of Steam H. L. ALLENDAP , , Quain 1rofessor4 Physics , University College , London .
eceiv and Read June 21 , 1900 .
At the present time , the relations between the specific heats other thermodynamical properties of gases and vapours , and the tions from the of the ideal gaseous substance in isothsrmd and adiabatic expansion , remain extremely obscure .
The riatior of the latent heat of a vaponr , and of its saturation press , art .
generally expressed by purely formulae , ithout t foundation .
Various equations , such as those of der , and Clausius , have been proposed and have been very generally adopted represent some of the simplest of these relations , but ving to complexity , and to the number of empirical constants involved , thek*S utility is seriously limited , and the ults to which they lead are some cases undoubtedly erroneous .
The object of the present papel\ldquo ; which is mded minly on ments on steam , is to develop the application of a modified form of Joule-Thomson equation , which is sufficicntly simple to be of greak value in the discussion of the relations of gascs vapours , and which directly to accurate formlae for perties which have hitherto been represented To take the of as examplc , tables of the of steam are present mded on .
the heat of team at C. reckoned from C. , mcly : ( 1 ) , and on his ) for the prcssure of 1lamely : ( 2 ) .
: The ttcr f contains ve ) it is snaI : ffi of Gases .
267 to employ two different formulae to cover the range C. of his experiments .
The specific volume of saturated steam , olving to the effects of face condensation , cannot be determined by direct experlment , and is generally deduced from the above empirical formulae , by the application of the well-known thermodynamical relation , ( 3 ) , where is the latent heat , the specific volnme of the saturated vapour , and that of the hquid , the ) solute temperature , the rate of increase of the satnration-pressure tnre .
Regnault also determined the specific of perheated steam at atmospheric pressurs by condensing highly stlperheated steam calorimeter ; but olving to the small proportion which the superheat of the steam bears to the latent heat , and to the of calorimetric work at high temperatures , the measurements were not very certain , and many recent experimentalists and writers ( e.y. , Ewing , Perry , Grindley ) have preferred to adopt widely different values deduced by other methods from the formula for the total heat .
It lvas proved by Rankine that the rate of change of the total heat of steam at low temperatures , at which it very nearly follows the laws of an ideal gas on account of its low pressure and large specific volume , must be very nearly equal to the specific heat of the vapour at constant pressure .
Therefore either the specific heat of steam at low temperatures must be , increasing considerably with the temperaso as to reach the value between and 200 C. , or else the observations of Regnault must be wrong .
In any it is cIear that the variation of the total should not be linear , unless we abandon the experimental evidence in your of the constancy of the specific heat of an ideal gas .
It is most likely the source of the discrepancy is to be found in the difficuIt calorimetric measurements of the rate of change of the total heat at low tions of the latent heat by Gliffiths , calories at C. , and by Dieterici , calories at C. , to 10 calories smaller than Begnault 's , anci imply rate of change of total heat about 30 per cent. larger , and more nearly to the value .
At temperatures above C. , the determinations of Regnault are more consislent , it is veIy likely , from the method which he employed , that they may be considerably in error .
His observe ations show a sudden increase of six calories ) C. , which is the discovery and tion of a leakage of throngh the msay and Young , ' Phil. rans .
, 1892 .
; Soc. .
Proc Gri tfiths , .
Soc. Proc Deceulbcl , 1894 .
distributing tap into the idle calorimetsr .
It is clear that he reg$ the tions above this point with greater confidence .
In any it is unlikely that the order of accuracy altained in his was greater than one-haIf of 1 per cent. at any point , because thermometers were not sufficiently perfect , and because it is certain from the reoent determinations of ReynoIds and Moorby the mean specific of water between and C. , and from work of and Barnes on the variation of the specific heat over the whole range to C. , that his value for the specific of water C. is at least 1 per cent. too large .
He was altQ ignorant of the considerable changes which occur in ths specific of water at low temperatures , and it is evident that his work , thoug far in of his time , requires revision when considered in light of the great advances which been made in the last fifty It is obvious from the nature of the problem that the most ate method of determining , either the iation of the total heat steam , or the specific heat of steam , is by the application of method , which shall ) independent of the mination the latent heat .
In the papers which follow , I have described tht application of two such methods to the case of steam .
By means the " " Calorimeter\ldquo ; it is possible , following method of Thomson , to dete1mine accurately the variation of the total heat of steam , and the deviations of the specific voluma from the gaseous state , in terms of the specific heat at constant pressure .
By the ' Method of Measuring the Specific which is ctly s to the method already applied in the case of water , it is possible to mijle the specific heat without reference to .
the latent heat .
The details of these experiments are reserved for subsequent IliCationS , the object of the present paper is to explain the reIations involved , and to exhibit calculation of the variations of the specific , the specific heats , . .
the total he , the latent heat , and the pressure of saturated steam in : terms of the quantities which ttre directly obse1ved .
The theory of the method is applicable , has been already applied , to some problems comlected with gases , but in dealing with potlrs soms additions are required , and it is that the original equation of Joule Thomson requires some important modifications . .
of In order to epresent the tions of on the tious : of from Boylc 's law , Iiankine in 1854 proposed the equation , . .
( 4 ) .
*Callendttr and 1urnes , Qsoc .
Beport , ' 1897 1899 .
Properties of Gases we write for , on the left hand side , this equation is practically identical , for moderate pressures , with the modified form of ffie equation of Van der Waals which was devised by to meet the objection that the term in the equation of Van der Waals did not satisfactorily represent the variation of the phenomena with tomperatnre .
In adopting this equation of Rankine 's to represent their observations " " On the Thermal Effects of Fluids in Motion , \ldquo ; Joule and Thomson substituted in the small term which thus becams .
] the purpose of their observations the modification appeared to be unimportant , and they quote the equation Rankine 's , but it really introduces a great simplification .
If we write the equation in the form , ( 5 ) , we observe that the small term is a metion of the temperature only , and is independent of the pressure or volume .
The isothermals on the diagram are equilateral hyperbolas , identical in form with those of an ideal gas .
Or , if we plot the product against , as is usual in considering the deviations of a gas from Boyle 's law , the isothermals are straight lines inclined to the axis of at various angles , which diminish as the temperatnre rises .
It is proved by the experiments of Joule and Thomson , and more cIearly by the subsequent observations of Amagat and others , that the equation , even in this simple form , represents a very good first approximation to the deviations of actual gases from Boyle 's law at moderate pressures .
The approximation holds , for , in the case of CO according to the observations of Amagat , up to 50 or 100 atmospheres at temperatures between and C. The application of the equation to the case of vapours may , however , be still further simplified , and rendered at the same time more accurate , by two slight but important modifications .
( 1 ) It is practically certain that the equation of a perfect , or pluperfect , gas high temperatures is not , but , where is the minimum or " " -volume\ldquo ; of Hirn and Van der Waals .
The -volume is variously regarded as being equal to four times or 4 times the absolute volume of the moIecuIes .
It is relatively small at moderate pressures ( about one-thousandth of at ntmospheric pressure ) , and is often negligible , but may with great probabilit taken as equal to the volume of the liquid at temperatures where the vapour pressure is small .
( 2 ) .
It is usual in the kinetic theory of gases , either tacitly or explicitly , to make the fundamental assumption that the average total kinetic energy of the molecules of a gas , including motions of vibration and tion , is directly proportional to the kinetic energy of traxlsla270 Prof. H. L. Callendar .
On the Thermodynamical tion , which is to per unit mass any temperature .
follows from this unption that the limiting of the specific of a gas in the state , either at constant pressurg or at voltlme , must be constant , if the molecule is stable , it is directly proportional to , which tends to a constant limit when , even in the case of vapours at temperatures far below their boilin .
These constant limiting values of the two fundamental specific heats will be delloted by the symbols and respectively .
As a further simplification we may assume that the kinetic energy of a vapour is proportional to at all stages and not only in the limit .
On this mption it is also necessary to suppose that the index of in the small term in the -Thomson equation is not 2 , but , the ratio of the limiting value of the specific heat at constant volume to the limiting value of .
lf we adopt the hypothesis of Clerk with regard to the distribution of energy between the various degrees of freedom of a molecnle , which , in the absence of certain edge with regard to the exact nature of a appears to be the only practical working hypothesis , the theoretical value of this limiting ratio should be for a monatomic gas liko argon , for a diatomic gas like oxygen or hydrogen , for a triatomic gas like steam or CO and so , increasing by unity for each additional atom in the molecule .
The value for the index is closely verified in the case of steam by the experiments to be described on the Joule-Thomson effect , and also by the experiments on the specific heat , by which this relation first suggested .
Adopting these two modifications , of which the second is the more important , the equation may be written in the form , .
( 6 ) , in which is as convenient abbreviation for the ideal volume , and the -volume is taken as constant and equal to the volume of the liql .
The small correction , representing the state of co- aggregation of the molecnles , is called the " " -aggregation volume and is a function of the only , varying inversely as the power of the temperature , where the index is used as an abbreviation for .
It is a quantity of the same dimensions as a volume , and is measured in centimetres .
The numerical value of in the of steam at C. is , as deduced the experiments on the Jonle-Thomson effect and the specific heat .
The alculated v of at is .
It is obvions on the simplest considerations that the ggregation volnme cannot rately constant at high pressures , since there is all obvious limit to the possil)tion of the molecules .
If , for instance , the molecules simply pail e , the tiring must But it is cel'tain from the differential experiments that the modified cases .
thSpecific Hents .
It would appear at first sight as though the modified equation were more complicated than the original of Joule and Thomson , but it leads a matter of to far simpler relations between the thermodynamical properties , and makes it possible to attack problems which would be quite intractable with the more complicated forms of empirical equations in vogue .
If are the specific heats at constant and at contant volume respectively , and is the entropy , we have the well-known relations , , .
( 7 ) , .
( 8 ) .
Assuming the characteristic equation ( 6 ) , it is easy to prove from these relations that the values of the specific heats at any pressuue are given by the simple . .
( 10 ) , where and are the constant limiting values of the specific heats when .
The ratio of the specific heats is given by the relation , . .
where stands for the constant limiting }alue of the ratio , and is equal to The isentropic relations are greatly simplified by the assumption , since in this case the ratio of the co-aggregation volume to the ideal volume , or to the difference of specific volumes of the vapour and liquid , is constant at constant entropy .
From the characteristic equation ( 6 ) , we have for the isothermal elasticity and the isentropic elasticity , since , ( 12 ) , . . .
( 13 ) .
The equation of the isentropics may therefore be wlitte1l the forms\mdash ; constant , or ) } or constant , or } constant ( 14 ) .
272 Prof. H. L. Callendar .
the namical 3 : The constant value of the ratio along an isentropic is given by the relation , ( 15 ) , which may be writte1l in the form , ( 16 ) , where is the base of natural logarithms , and the symbols , refer to a standard state SUGh as C. , and 760 mm. Isothjrmal Expansion .
The Change of Entropy in expansion from to at a constant temperature is deduced from the relation , ( 17 ) , whence ( 18 ) .
The Heat Absorbed is given by the expression , ( 19 ) .
The Work Done , , is the same as for an ideal gas between the same limits of pressure .
The Change of Intrinsic Energy is , therefore , ( 20 ) .
at Const essure .
The Heat Absorbed in a rise of temperature from to at constant pressure is given by the equation ( 21 ) .
Change of Energy , ( 22 ) .
The Work Done , ( 23 ) .
Change of ntropy , ( 24 ) .
In passing from any one state represented by the -ordinates ) to any other represented by , both the change of energy and the of entropy must be independent of the ocess ) which of Vapours , 27,3 the change is effected , and equal to the values calculated by combining isothermal expansion with heating at constant pressure .
We thus obtain the following general expressions for the change of energy and the change of entropy in any transformation from the state , to the state :\mdash ; ( 25 ) .
( 26 ) .
These expressions are true for any value of of the Specific of Saturafed As an illustration of the numerical application of this method , I propose to take the case of steam , as the most important and interesting .
But the methods and reasoning would ] ) equally applicable to any other gases or vapours for which the requisite experimental data were available .
The deviations of the specifio volume from the ideal state are immediately given by the values of the co-aggregation-volume , which are easily calculated .
It is quite a mistake to suppose , as is frequently stated , that there is any sudden or rapid change in the -aggregation as the saturation point is approached .
This idea has arisen merely irom experimental errors due to surface condensation .
Under certain conditions it is well known that the vapour can exist in stable equilibrium at pressures greatly in excess of the saturation value , provided that there is no liquid present , or any nnclei , or other aids to conlensation .
I have not , for obvious reasons , succeeded in investigating the properties of jrsaturated steam by the method of throttling ; but there does not appear to be any reason to suppose that its behaviour could not be predicted with great probability by assuming that the -aggregation volume remains constant at constant temperature , which is certainly a very olose approximation to the of steam in the superheated condition down to the tnre of saturation .
In the following table , which contains a fcw mple v of the coaggregation and the .
specific volume , the ideal specific volume of steam at C. and 760 mm. pressure is take1l as , which is calculated by assnming the density of oxygen , corrected for its probable co-aggregation , and taking the ratio of the weight of steam to that of oxygen to be 18/ 32 .
The of for steam C. is taken as , and the values other tempcrittures are calculated by the formula ( 6):\mdash ; VOL. LXVII .
Prof. H. L. Callendar .
On the Thermodynamical : Table I.\mdash ; Specific Volume and Co-aggregntion of Steam .
The values of the specific volume are calculated for the saturation- pressures , given in atmospheres in the second column .
The values for any other pressures can be calculated with equal ease , since the -aggregation-volume , which is given in the third column , depends only on the temperatnre .
It is in each case to calculate the appropriate value of the ideal volume .
The values of the specific volume are found ) subtracting from the ideaI volume .
The values of the -aggregatio1l ratio , and the ratio , are also given , as the first is ill ting the values of the specific heats ) ( 9 ) , ( 10 ) , and ( 11 ) , and the second affords the most convenient means of representing graphically val.iations of the volume , since it is quite to piot the specific itself on an adequate scalc .
Graphic of riaiions of ecific l The best method of representing these results graphically to be adopted in fig. 1 , of plotting the ratio of or gaiIlst p. We have\mdash ; ( 27 ) .
Since is ture , the are of Gascs arnl Vapours , straight lines inclined at different angles to the axis , but all intersecting at the same point , when .
These lines are drawn for each of temperature in the figure , and are all represented as terminating in the saturation curve , although , as a matter of , it is Scale of for Fig. 1.\mdash ; Specific volume of steam .
possible to suppose them pdcedI ) eyond it , if condensation does not occur .
The first part of the curve up to C. is represented on a ten times larger scale of pressure in the upper part of the .
It lvill ) observed that the whole deviation from the ideal volnme at C. is only per cent. at saturation-pressure .
This method of Prof. H. L. Callendar .
plotting is analogous to that rendered familiar by Amagat and others in the case of the deviation of gases from Boyle 's law .
It is usual to plot the produot against , but it seems to me to be preferable to plot instead of , because the method confuses the diagram by introducing the effects of the iation of temperature , so that the different isothermals cannot be so well compared , and their relations observed .
In the diagrams of Amagat and others , who have adopted the direct method of measuring the whole specific volume instead of the differential method of observing only the deviation from the ideal volume , the isothermals are not accurately straight , but always bend downmore steeply as saturation is approached , so that they are concave to the axis of .
There seems reason to believe that this peculiarity may be partly due to the effect of surface condensation so vcll established by the observations of Ramsay and Young .
It is no similar thongh smaller increase in the slope results from the work of nson on the Joule-Thomson effect for at pressures up to 26 atmospheres , at a temperature of C. But in that case also the effect may be explained by condensation in the pores of the porous plug , as is indicated in some of the work of Joule and Thomson .
I was not able to find by the differential method , which would eliminate any error of this kind , any trace of this effect at moderate pressures .
In fact , the cooling eflect appeared to diminish very slightly with increase of pressure , as it should , on account of the small increase in the value of the specific heat with increase of .
If this is generally true for other vapours , it would appear possible that many of the complications which have been troduoed in current forms of empirical equations of the fluid state , may serve only to represent errors inherent in the experimental methods on which they are founded .
of of Steam .
The values of the specific heats at any t and pressnre easily from their limiting at zero pressure , by means of the formulae ( 9 ) , ( 10 ) , and ( 11 ) lready given .
The actnal value of the specific heat a pressure of one atmosphere was experimentally determined by the electrical method to be )sequently described .
The value so found , slightly larger than , agreed so with the theoretical deduced from the racteristic etion ( by means of Maxwell 's assumption , that there can be little that the method of deduction employed is valid .
The value of the constant for stcam is readily found from the of the ideal already nssumed , we thus ' * ' Phil. ) , 1892 .
at the pressm.e due to column of mm. in height at C. and sea-level in latitude is equal to megadynes per sq .
cm .
Propcr.ties of Gases \amp ; c. 277 C.G.S. joule/ deg. C. . .
The unit of adopted in this paper is the capacity of 1 gramme of water at C. , which is taken as being equivaIent to joules , from the mean of the results of Rowland and of Reynolds and Moorby , compared and reduced by the work of Callendar and Barnes on the variation of the specific heitt of water over the whole range to C. The limiting values of the specific heats of , and of their ratio , in terms of this unit are as follows , .
C. .
C. In the followin .
table , the values of , and are given for saturated steam at the point of saturation , in order to the increase of specific heat with pressure .
The values of the specific heat at a pressure of one atmosphere at ious temperatures are also given , to show the diminution of the specific heat with rise of temperature .
The values enclosed in brackets are of course imaginary , but are included to show more clearly the nnture of the .
The value of the specific heat at constant pressure has been calculated by Zeuner from Regnault 's observations to be , on the assumption that the specific volume of steam is a linear function of the temperature at constant pressure , in which case the specific heat at constant pressure is independent of the .
Another common assumption is that the pressure at constant volume is a linear function of the temperature ( Van der ) .
either of these assumptions can be reconciled with the most accurate thermometric at moderate pressures , or with the present experiments on steam by the method of the diflerential throttling calorimeter .
The advantage gained by these assumptions is very slight and The partial constancy of one specific heat is a small matter , if the sams time the other thermodynamical relations are rendered so complicated as to make the equations useless .
The values of the specific heat of steam at const pressure have been recently calculated by Grindley from his throttling experiments , assuming the linear ( 1 ) of Begnault for the Total Hcat of steam .
These values are in Table II for comparison .
The 1lumbers give1r in brackets are not given by Grindley , but are lculated by an extension of his method to show the effect of his hypothesis .
The extraordinariY rences between his values and minc , as in the adjacent columns ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) of Table II , are not due to any discrepanoy in our experiments , but simply to his assumption of Regnault 's formula for the toted The method of deducing the specific heat from the totnl hcat , though it has often been applied , is unsound in principle , because the specifio heat * 'Phil .
, vol. 194 , 1900 , pp. 1-36 .
Prof. H. L. Callendar .
On the deponds on the rate of variation of the total heat , so that all the errors in the formula for the total heat are enormously exaggerated in the calculation of the specific heat .
The last column the table contains the values of the so-called " " Specific Heat of Saturated Steam i.e. , the value of the specific heat when is determined by the condition that the steam is to remain saturated .
The value in this case is given by the formula ( sat. ) ( 28 ) , which is most readily obtained by differentiating the expression for the entropy of saturated steam , namely , ( , where is the entropy of water reckoned from C. The values of ( sat. ) also differ considerably from those which have been previously calculated on the usual assumption that is constant , and equal to , as in formula ( 1 ) .
It will be observed that the mean value of the specific heat of steam at a constant pressure of one atmosphere between the limits and C. , the range of RegnauIt 's experiments , is according to the values given in Table II .
This value is not so greatly in excess of the value given by Regnault as to be beyond the limits of mental error , especially if we consider that the method which he adopted must necessarily have given rise to constant errors in defect , and that the superheat was only one-sixteenth of the total heat to be measured .
It is probable that the variation of the specific heats of all other gases and vapours , to which the Joule-Thomson equation can be applied , is of the same type as that exhibited above in the case of steam .
I have succeeded in reconciling a good many of the apparently discordant experimental data on the subjecb by means of this hypothesis , but the experiments themselves are difficult , and the question of the variation of the specific heats of gases is obsctlred by unavoidable errors .
Among the most remarkable and accurate of recent results are those of Joly on the specific heats of Air and at constant volume , determined by means of his differcntial steamcalorimeter .
The values which he obtained are much larger than those deduced from RegnauIt , and cannot be reconciled with them on the common assumption Van der Vaals ) that the specific heat at constant volume is constant , but they agree remarkably well , considering the difficulty of the experiments , with the theory proposed in this paper .
A fuller discussion of these and simil elationS will be reserved for future communication .
of Gases \amp ; c. Table II.\mdash ; Specific Heats of Ste of tloe Total Heand Latent Heat .
The Total Heat , , of a vapour , the usual manner , is reIated to the Latent Heat , , by the simple equation ( 29 ) , if the Heat of the Liquid is reckoned from the same zero as total heat of the vapour .
In the case of water both and are reckoned from the state of water at C. The specific heat of water is so nearly constant that may often be taken as equal to .
More generally we may write , where is the small differencc of the heat from the value , which it would have if the specific heat were constant and to Jity .
to the tions of Barnes , the variation of the specific heat is very nearly linear between and C. The value of temperatures above C. may be taken ( 31 ) .
Prof. H. L. Callendar .
On the Thermod , ynamical This simple formula agrees very nearly with RegnauIt 's observationb in the rate of variation above , and also with the table of values of given by Callendar and Barnes , * The accurate relation between the Total Heat and the Specific of the is readily obtained by equating the intrinsic energy of steam evaporated at C. at a pressure , and then heated at pressure up to any temperature , to that of steam obtained by heat , ing the liquid up to the same temperature , evaporating it at under constant saturation pressure , and expanding the vapour at temperature down to the pressure of saturation at C. various changes of insic energy involved in se processss ar9 given by equations ( 20 ) and ( 22 ) .
After a few simple obtain the Equation of Total Heat , ( 32 ) , which is simply the expression of the first law of thermodynamics as applied to the problem , and might also have been obtained in various other ways .
If we omit the small terms depending on the co-aggregation , the equation is identical that given by kine in 1850 , on the assumption that saturated steam could be treated as an ideal gas .
The small terms represent the effect of the deviations of steam from the ideal state , and become important at high pressures .
The equation neglects the external work of expansion of the liquid , but this is less than one-thirtiieth of a calorie at C. , although it may become important as the criticaI temperature is approached .
Equtttion ( 32 ) gives only the variations of the total heat of the turated vapour .
In order to find the absolute values , it is necessary to know the actual value of the total heat at some particular tempsrature .
The obvious value to select would be that given by Regnault at C. , namely 637 calories .
His methods do not appear , however , to have been sufficiently exact , and I prefer to rely on a more recent determination by Joly , with his steam calorimeter ( described by Griffiths ) .
Joly determined the mean specific heat of water between and in terms of the latent heat of steam at 100 C. Now the mean specific heat of water between and C. is known in terms of the specific heat at C. by the results quoted above .
We can therefore reverse the calculation , and find the latent heat of steam at C. The result of the calculation gives at calories at C. This is considerably in excess of Regnault 's value , but it is quite within the limits of probable error of his experiments , and it possiloly still errs in the direction of being too .
Assuming this value as a starting p , I have calculated the following table of * ' Brit. Assoc. Rep 1899 .
'Phil .
Trans , 1896 , p. 322 .
of values of the total heat and latent heat , and of the rate of variation of the saturation pressure and the total heat with temperature , namely ( sat. ) , and .
It will be observed that the rate of increase the total heat diminishes rapidly at high while the rate of diminution of the latent increases .
This must necessarily be the case , as the latent heat shoudd vanish the critical temperature , hich occurs about C. , according to the observations of Cailletet and Colardeau , lvhereas the linear formula of egnault would make the Iatent anish at about C. This is an additional indication of the impossibility of Regnaudt 's formula .
It may be observed , vever , that the average of increase of the total heat , according to Table III between and C. , over the range of Regnault 's experiments from which the linear formula ( 1 ) was calculated , is only calorie per degree , which differs so little from the coefficient given by Eegnault as to be well within the limit of accuracy of his experiments , considering the acknowledged leakage of the distributing tap , and that the whole difference is only one-half of 1 per cent. on the quantity of heat measured .
The values of givell in column 6 of the table , are calculated from those of by means of the thermodynamic reIation ( 3 ) already quoted , assuming the values of the specific volume from TabIe I. Table III .
Heat and Latent Heat of team in terms of the Thermal Capacity of Water C. Prof. H. L. Callendar .
On the Thermodynamical . .
The values of are obtained from those of by ating equation ( 32 ) , thus , .
It will be observed that the values of the total heat in the table agree very closely with those of Regnault between and where his results ( according to Griffiths ) are most reliable .
average of his observations over this range is in exact agreement with Table III .
At lower temperatures , Regnault 's observations are very discordant , but the values given in the table are well supported by those of riffiths .
He finds , for instance , the latent heat to be C. , where th ' table would give .
The unit employed by Griffiths ( calorie at C. ) is rent , so that his valuo would require to be raised nearly .
to reduce to the same unit , which would make it calories at .
There can be no doubt that his observatl are entitled to much greater weight than those of RegnauIt , which are nearly 6 calories larger at this point .
The value , by Dieterici with an ice calorimeter , for the Iatent heat at C. , is calories larger than that given in the table .
But it must be remembered that observations of the latent heat at C. are not at all easy , and that there is some uncertainty about the unit employed by Dieterici , us he finds the same method the value of the mean specific heat of water between and C. , about 1 per cent. larger than ReynoIds and Moorby or Callendar and Barnes .
It is possible that his result might agree with Table III if it could be reduced to the same units .
En , of .
and Steam .
The entropy of water , , is readily calculated from a table of the values of the specific heat when the variation of the specific heat is .
Since , however , the specific heat is nearly equal to unity , we may write , ( 33 ) , where is the small difference of the any temperature from the value , calculated on the assumption of constant specific heat .
The of given in the following table have been calculated from the table of values of the specific heat given by Callendar and Barnes .
It will be seen that the values of are Yery small temperaturcs below C. , but increase rapidly at higher tempe ] atures .
Above C. the of the specific heat of ater are so that it is not possible to calculate the properties of steam satisfactorily any method .
The values of * ' Boy .
Soc. Proc Decembcr , 1894 .
'Wied .
Ann , p. 504 , 1899 .
Brit. .
Rep 1899 .
Properties of Vapos .
283 given in the table for comparison with those of .
They are calculated from the same table of the values of the specific heat , and the difference is seen to be small .
This difference occtlrs as a small correction in the equation for the essure , to be presently given .
The values of the entropy of ater , corrected for the variation of the specific heat are given in the column headed .
The values of the entropy of steam are obtained by adding the alues of given in the next column , which are from the values of the latent heat already given in Table III .
Values of , calculated from Regnault 's formulae , are given in the last for comparison .
Table .\mdash ; Entropy of Vater and Steam .
q2 By the application of the second law of thermodynamics we may obtain a reIation between the tent heat and the saturation-pressure .
Expressing the fact that the entropy of steam evaporated at , and heated at constant pressure up to temperature , is the same as the entropy of steam obtained by heating water up to the same temperature , , evaporating it saturatio1l-pressure , , and then expanding it at constant temperature , , down to the of saturation at , we immediately obtain the entropy tion ( 34 ) .
284 Prof. H. L. Callendar .
On the nodynam The various terms of this equation have been alrsady caIculated , are given 1n equations ( 18 ) , ( 24 ) , ( 26 ) , and in Table .
The Iast thr terms of the equation are small , and represent the effect of the tion of the specific heat of vater , and of the deviation of the of steam from the ideal state , as expressed by tfle c equation ( 6 ) .
Neglecting the small terms , the equation is identied with one given ] ) Bertrand , on the assumption that steam may treated as an ideal gas .
It is evident that the values of the saturation pressure may be calculated from this equation by means of the values of the latent heat already found .
It is better , however , to eliminate by means of the energy equation ( 32 ) already given .
Equation of the If we substitute , in the energy equation ( 32 ) , and divide by , and snbtract from the entropy equation ( 34 ) above given , we obtain the equation of saturation-pressure , which may be reduced to the form ( 35 ) .
Neglecting the terms depending on the co-aggregation , and on the variation of the specffic heat of water , this eqnation is eqnivalent to one given by Dupre and Bertrand , and rediscovered in various ways by many other observers Pictet Hertz ) .
If the correct valuss of , and are inserted in the formula , the equation thus gives very accurate values of the saturation-pressure at low pressures where the properties of steam satisfy approximately the fundamental : .
assumptions made in deducing the formula .
although of course he was well aware that the formula thus obtained was not accurate at high pressures , has calculated numerical formuIae of this type for a large numl ) of vapours , choosing the constants empirically so as to obtain the best agreement over the whole range .
The values of the constants so found do not , of course , agree with the correct values of or .
The numerical values chosen by Bertrand in the case of ater , for instance , give calories , .
per the value of the steam pressure is 763 mm. at C. At low temperatures the first term in formula ( 35 ) is the most important , since is very neurly equal to when is small .
The formul then reduces to the simple type , Iog , which has often been employed for approximate lvork , and is the basis of the useful of Ramsay and Young .
Adding a second term , , to this * Pictet , 'Comptes Bendus , ' vol. , 1880 ( proof invalid ) ; Hertz , ' .
Ann vol. 17 , p. 177 , ' Thermodynamique , ' p. 93 .
Phil. , p. 33 .
Properties of Gas !
Vapours , take account of the small terms in equation ( 35 ) , we obtain the wellhlown empirical formula of RankiIlO ( 1849 ) , which is very convenient accurate .
A nearly equivalent formula is that of Unwin , , in which the same effect is empirically secured by an arbitrary exponent .
Thess formulae ars purely empirical , but it is interesting to okerve how they are related to the correct thermodynamical expres .
jssures of Steam .
In employing equation ( 35 ) to calculate the numerical values of the saturation-pressure in the case of steam , we have only one empirical constant , namely , , which is determined by the condition that the saturation-pressure at C. is 760 mm. The values of the other constants which occur in this equation have been already given , namely , cals .
The value of , which is also one of the fundamental data , is taken as being , but is uncertain to the extent of .
Dividing the equation by , and reducing to common Iogarithms by the modulus , we obtain the numerical formula ( 36 ) .
in which stands for the function .
I havs used this iorm for calculation , and have given the values of the separate terms 1n Table so as to show their relative importance .
It is also possible to write the formula in the shape , small terms , but this does not show so clearly the relative.effect and importance of and The values of the saturation-pressure in the column ars calCulared by the complete thermodynamic formula ( 36 ) .
The values given in the column headed Regnault are those of Regnault , recalculated by Peabody and reduced to latitude .
The difference expressed in degrees of temperature is given in the last column , and is probably within the limits of error of 's observations and of the empirical iormulae employed to represent them .
If we refer to the actual observations Regnault , we find that the discrepancies of individual observations at any point , expressed in degrees of temperature , exceed the values of the differenoes shown the last column .
We also find that in most oases the actual observations agree better with the single formula ( 36 ) than they do with the two empirical formulae , each with five a1bitrary constants , from which the vaIues in the column headed * ' Phil. Mag vol. 21 , p. 300 .
Dr. G. Johnstone Stony .
Table V. \mdash ; Saturation-Pressures of Steam .
Regnault were calculated .
Taken in metion with the diflerential throttling experiments , and bhe direct measurement of the specific heat by the electrical method , this is very strong evidence that Regnault 's formula for the total heat is incorrect , and that the of the total heat and latent heat given in Table III , and supported by the experiments of Griffiths and Joly , should be accepted in its place .
" " Note on Inquiry as to the Escape of from Atmosphel.e G. , JM .
A. , Hon. D.Sc .
, .
Lecc-ived Read , 1900 .
have now three investigations which profess to snpply information about the escape of gases from atmospheres .
Two of them , those of Messrs. Cook and Bryall , reason forward by the help of the kinetic tlJeory of gas from the supposed causes ; the third , which is that preferred by the present writer , reasons backward by the help of the same theory from the observed effects .
Mr. Cook 's investigation , which will be found in the ' Journal ' for , 1900 , seeks to compute the proportion of molecules which can the speed requisite for escape by means of the which 1860 , clssigning the of

