On the INature and Combinations of a newly discovered vegetable Acid ; with Observations on the Malic Acid , and Suggestions on the State in which Acids may have previously existed in Vegetables .
By M. Donovan , Esq. Communicated by William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read June 1 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 231 .
] The acid here noticed by the author being obtained in greatest quantity from the fruit of the Sorbus aucuparia , is denominated by him sorbic acid , in order to distinguish it from other known vegetable acids .
To prepare it , he presses the ripe fruit , previously bruised , in a linen bag , and thereby obtains nearly half its weight of juice , With this juice he mixes a solution of acetate of lead , and obtains a precipitate of sorbate of lead , which requires to be frequently washed with cold water .
The purified powder is then boiled in a large quantity of water , which dissolves a part as a super-sorbate , leaving undissolved a sub-sorbate .
The liquor being filtered and suffered to cool , deposits brilliant crystals of purified sorbate of lead .
To the crystals thus obtained he adds a quantity of dilute sulphuric acid , sufficient to separate nearly the whole of the lead ; and having then separated the remainder by a current of sulphuretted hydrogen gas , he obtains the acid in a state of purity .
The acid to which this bears the nearest resemblance , is the malic ; and indeed these two acids appear to the author to have been con2S founded even by Scheele , for apples contain a portion of sorbic as well as of malic acid ; but that these acids are different , Mr. Donovan proves by decomposing malate of lead by sorbic acid .
For if water be boiled on malate of lead , no crystals are to be obtained on cooling the liquor ; but when the malate is boiled in sorbic acid , the malate is decomposed ; and the liquor , when cooled , deposits the peculiarly brilliant crystals of sorbate of lead .
In order to be well assured of the difference between these acids , Mr. Donovan compared his acid with as many as seven different specimens of malic acid obtained from different sources , and was confirmed in the opinion that they are essentially different , by comparison of various neutral salts obtained from each ; those containing sorbic acid being in general to be procured in permanent crystals , while those from malic acid yield merely deliquescent residua when reduced to dryness .
The author remarks , that the purest malic acid is that prepared from the Sempervivum tectorum , which , according to the observation of Vauquelin , appears to be free from every other acid ; while the juice of apples , unless they be taken very young , appears constantly to contain a portion of sorbic acid , This paper concludes with conjectures respecting the progressive changes of vegetable products , and possible conversion of bitter principle into malic acid , sorbic acid , and oxalic acid ; but the author is fully sensible that little reliance can be placed on such speculations .

