]\gt ; 1884 .
] Energy and Radiation in Incandescence Lamps .
157 XIV .
The Relation between Electric Energy and Radiation in the Spectrum of Incandescence Lamps By CaptaiIl ABNEY , R.E. , F.B.S. , and Lieut.-Colonel FESTIyG , Received June 6 , 1884 .
In the " " Philosophical \ldquo ; for Sepbember , 1883 , we showed that certain relations existed between potential , ctlrre1lt , watts ( voltamperes ) , and radiation in incandescence lamps , and that if potential , current , watts , radiation , and and were constants , then ( i ) and consequently that ( ii ) ; further we showed that after the carbon ] attained a certain heat , the radiation varied directly as the energy .
( iii ) where is a constant .
We may incidentally mention that this relationship appears to hold good in a properly exhausted lamp , be the filament of or of platinum , or presumably of other metals .
In this case the in the left hand members of ations ( and ( ii ) is changed .
On down graphically the curve obtained by using the watts as the abscissae and the radiation as ordinates , it was at once evident that the straight part is an asymptote to a cllrve having its origin at .
It might , therefore , be presumed that each individual ray should inclease in intensiy in what the same manner when the energy in the filament was increased , i.e. , in some simple curve which would have an asymptote .
The resuIt of our researches which we now communicate to the Royal Society is that the curves for of refrangibility lower Ghan about are hyperbolas , and that when near the limit of visibility the hyperbolas approach the parabolic form , the of the curves moving away from the zero of energy as the rays are refrangible .
This may be pnt in the form of an equation\mdash ; When the rays are of very low refrangibility we have the in the equation , " " \ldquo ; gradually diminishes as the ibility of the rays increases till it becomes , with a further increase it takes the sign ; " " \ldquo ; actually diminishes from the greatest wave-length till it approaches , after which the curves practically become parabolas .
A reference to fig. 2 will show the forms of the curves for diffel.ent No. 1 ray is the limit of the visible red , and is approximately para bolic , 18 watts having to be deducted to arrive at the origin of the curve , and In No. 2 .
In No. 3 .
In No. 4 It will be noticed that in the curves of rays 2 , 3 , and 4 , the movement of the origin from zero of energy must bs very small , and is therefore igible ; hence for all the hyperbolas , which differ appreciably from parabolas , we may take the zcro watts for the origin of the curve .
We further give tables showing that the results are true with the visual rays as measured by ordinary photometric methods .
Table II shows the calculated and observed ensities of three visible compared with the same rays in a gas flame .
The method of observation adopted was by means of a spectrophotometer which one of us has used during the last ten years .
It consists of two slits , , through which the light from the two which have be compared respectively pass , striking two right angle prisms , , superposed over one another as shown in fig. 1 .
These *Table XIII is a still more complete record of the alterations in and , and may be studied in connexion with t , his .
Energy and Radiation in Incandescence Lamps .
reflect both beams on to a collimating lens , whence they fall on a dispersion apparatus , two spectra being formed on a screen , or in an $ observing telescope .
A slice of the two spectra is taken and com ; pared side by side by means of a " " split\ldquo ; lens .
The intensity of either spectrum can be reduced by closing one of the slits , or by placing a rotating disk of sectors between the slit and the screen , and adjusting bhe opening of the sectors till equality of illumination is attained .
The above results were obtained by latter mode of observation .
Table 1II shows a ray selected from the spectrum whose intensity was also with a ray of the -length in the spectrum of a gas flame .
TabJesIV , , and show the readings made photometrically , through red and green glasses , of different lamps , as compared a candle-power , the observed and calculated intensities being shown in juxtaposition .
It will be seen that the coincidences are very , and seem to justify the conclusions we have drawn .
Table VIII is an attempt to measure the .
light as a whole from the incandescence lamp with that of sperm ' candles .
The results are as near as might be expected .
Table II .
Capt. Abney and Col. Festing .
Table III .
Table .\mdash ; Maxim Lamp .
Green c Table V.\mdash ; Lane-Fox .
1884 .
] Energy and Radiation in Incandescence Lamps .
Table \mdash ; Edison Lamp ( Six Candles ) .
Table .\mdash ; Edison Sixteen-Candle Lamp .
Table VIII.\mdash ; Woodhouse and Rawson 's Lamp .
VOL. XXXVII .
Note.\mdash ; The numbers attached to unbroken curves indicate the turns of the screw of the pile which define the parts of the spectrum to which the curves respectively refer .
The wave numbers of these can be found by reference to Table X. We now come to the method we adopted in measuring the radiation at diiferent parts of the spectrum .
* Acollimator with alens of the same glass as the prism was used to render the rays from the incandescence lamps parallel before falling on the prism .
Another lens of the same material , fitted on to a camera with horizontal swing back , recsived the spectrtlm which was focussed on the screen of the latter .
A linear and very delicate thermopile mounted on a stand with a screen was employed ; the accompanying figure will give an idea of the instrument ( fig. 3 ) .
is a polished silver slit placed in front of the linear couples , which could be closed at will by a screw D. a brass mount for a of glass or rock-salt , a similar one being *This description was added after the paper was , as we were advised that the snbject.matter would thereby , rendered more clear .
( July 14 ) $t* ' .
1884 .
] Energy and Radiation in lncandescence Lamps .
163 fitted at ths other side of the pile .
is a tube to be connected with a pump for exhausting the chamber in which the couples are placed , the ends of which are the glass or other plates .
There is outside this chamber another hollow chamber through which a current of water can be passed , the intake being by , which is connected by an india-rubber tube to the water supply .
is an ordinary pinchcock .
is a screw of SO turns to the inch by which the pile can be moved along the guides .
The base is let into a wooden block which is screwed down to the observing table .
It will be seen that the height FIG. 3 .
of the pile can be adjusted .
, one not sbown in the , are the terminals which are connected with the ] and the galvanometer .
The face of this thermopile was placed in the spectrum and moved along it , the deflections of the galvanometer being noted at the dffiel'ent parts for the different currents passed through the lamp .
The slits were adjusted so as to be approximately equal to one another , and were kept of an aperture of about inch .
The galvanometer used was one of very low resistance , and set up so as to be exceedingly sensitive .
The currents and potentials were measured by Thomson 's graded galvanometers , but in some cases the Capt. Abney and Col. Festing .
Energy and Radiation in Incandescence Lamps .
165 potential was read by one of Siemens ' volt-meters .
In every case the potential was taken close to the lamp .
Grove 's cells were used to obtain the necessary currents .
The unbroken lines in fig. 2 , as we have already said , show the forms of the curves at different parts of the spectrum .
The light used in this experiment was from one of the British Electric Light Company 's lamps .
The fiducial energies measursd were , and watts .
From these the hyperbolas were calculated .
Table IX gives the calculated and observed deflections , from which figs. 3 and4 were constructed , and also the total radiation as observed on the thermopile .
The observed and calculated radiations for different parts of the spectrum agree very closely .
The wave-lengths corresponding to the positiou of the thermopile at different turns of the screw in this case were as follows:\mdash ; Table X. Turns of screw .
5,900 12,700 Turns of screw .
These , as well as the wave-lengths shown in the other tables , were obtained by taking photographs of substances giving lines which have previously been mapped .
The back of the pile was covered with thick felt , and kept at a constant temperature by means of ice .
A was placed in front of the slit .
No radiation hence fell on the apparatus except for the instant required to cause the needle to swing .
In fig. the dotted line shows the resuIts obtained by measul.ing the total energy of radiation from the lamp .
It will be seen by a reference to our paper Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 35 , p. of 1883 , that the energy of radiation for the visible spectrum of incandeline .
It now becomes of interest to determine the thermogram of the radiation for different electrical energies expended in the filament , and such are given in fig. 4 .
34 .
] and Radiation in Jncandescence Lamps .
Table XI shows the result with a filament having a metallic whilst that of which Table IX is a ) record was jet black .
Tables XII XIII give espectively t wave-lengths and the constants of this lamp .
Table XIII.\mdash ; Showing the constants and the different turns of the screw Table XI .
In formula :\mdash ; TUrDB of sclew .
For 17 . . . . . . . .
1 .
' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8 deduct watts and the curve calculated as a parabola .
14.5 \ldquo ; lt seemed of interest to compare a platinum incandescence lamp with a carboll filament , the ] we show in Table 84 .
] Energy and Radiation in lncandescence Lamps .
Table \mdash ; Radiation of Platinum Wire Lamp ( spectrum ) , watts , and also of Carbon Filament Lamp ( spectrum ) , watts Turns of the Platinum wire Carbon filament screw of Wave-length .
thermopile .
lamp .
lamp . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capt. Abney and Col. Festing .
June .
Table XIV\mdash ; continued .
Turns of the screw of Wave.length .
Platinum wire Carbon fflament lamp .
lamp .
thermopile .
The radiatiou curves of the two spectra are similar in every respeot , showing that the energies of the rays at diflerent parts of the spectrum bear the same proportion in the two cases .
We have already mentioned that the law that conne.cts the volts and amperes in a current passing through a carbon filament applies to platinum wire .
In Table we give the observed and calculated current Table \mdash ; Platinum Lamp .
together with the total radiation ions , and it will be seen in fig. 5 that the curve becomes a straight line after the expenditure of about 3 watts of electrical energy .
We may , therefore , conclude from these experiments that bright or dull carbon and atinum behave similarly to one another in every respect as regards quality of radiation .
We would again refer to fig. 4 in which the line passing through the maxima is produced below tho last observed thermogram .
rIhis 1884 .
] Energy and Radiation in Incandescence Lamps .
171 was effected by calculating the position of maxima from the hyperbolas calculated in Table IX .
It will be noticed that the maxima rapidly recede towards the lower ] imit of refrangibility , and at just invisible heat the maximum lies near 18,000 .
When a filament is at a temperature the energy required to maintain it at such must of necessity be expended , either by radiation , by heating matter in immediate contact with it , which in this case is gas in a state of extreme tenuity , by conduction , or by an internal loss .
* If there be no expenditure of energy by anything except radiation , it is manifest that this would increase in exact proportion to the energy shown in the filament .
Now we have seen that the radiation is not thus strictly proportional to the expended electrical energy , but that from the first we have energy unaccoumted for by radiation , which gradually increases up to a certain point and then becomes constant .
The question arises as to what cause can be due .
A reference to fig. 2 show that convection currents either inside or outside the lamp are not the cause .
We have in this figure the analysis of the radiation for different parts of the spectrum , and it will be seen that the rays of low refrangibility have curves which are concave to the axis of abscissae , whilst for the rays of higher refrangibility the curves are convex to the same axis .
Now if convection currents caused this palpable concavity in the curves from rays of low refrangibility , we ought to be able to measure their radiation as total radiation from the lamp when the direct radiation of the filament itself is cut off .
As a matter of fact the total radiation from the globe and surrounding air was immeasurable on the thermopile .
Thus the radiation from the heated gas inside , and the heated air outside the lamp , and from the glass globe itself , inappreciable .
The former might , perhaps , be expected if the lamp-black ' with which the face of the pile was coated did not absorb the particular radiations emitted from them .
If the total radiation from the glass globe and its surroundings was not measu.rable , much less could it be anticipated that the galvanometer needle would be deflected when such radiation was distributed through the spectrum , mol.e especially as the rays falling on the proceeded from a very narrow section of the lamp ( including the iilament ) lying on a plalle passing through the slit and along the axis of the collimator .
We find , however , that in this case the of radiation of the rays of low refrangibility are concave , whils those of higher are convex to the horizontal axis .
This would imply , if the cause of the convexity of the total radiation curve lies outside the filament ( since it has been shown that the radiation from the globe and sul.roundings is inap* Any apparent loss in radiation due to the lamp-black on the thermopile not absorbing radiation may be dismissed , as the loss will be shown to occur in the rays of high refrangibility which it is known are absorbed by lamp-black .
172 Energy and Radiation in Incandescence Lamps .
[ June preciable ) , that the rays of high refrangibihty are more absorbed used up than those of low refrangibility , which is quite contrary all our knowledge of the laws of absorption .
We are ; therefore , obligod to look to the filament itseIf for the cause of the convexity .
We that in a carbon filament resistance diminishes as the temperature is raised , whilst in a platinum wire the resistance increases under the same circumstances .
In both cases this implies a -arrangement tlJe molecules of the carbon or platinum and the consequent using up of energy .
It seems that this might be the reason of the form of the curves .
If it be so , then as the radiation from a filament varies ag the surface , and the alteratio1l in molecular arrangement varies as the mass , we ought to find that in excessively fine filaments the convexity is much diminished , and that the radiation curve is practically a straight line starting from the origin .
This is found to be the case in some filaments as fine as those made by Edison .
It should also be noticed that from the part where the radiation curve becomes straight , the resistance of the filaments changes but very slowly .
We have specially made these remarks , since in a paper read before the British Association at Southport , the late Sir William Siemens took exception to our regarding convecbion currents as being absent , and stated that these currents were imparted to the air outside the lamps .
This is theoretically valid , but practically it is of no moment .
We propose to examine this more fully subsequently .
A point now arises in regard to this research which is of importance in photometric measurement .
If the intensities of radiations of a ray , say in the red of the spsctrum of an incandescence lamp as produced by two known electrical energies , are compared with the corresponding radiations ( say ) of a candle , and if then the intensities of a second ray , say in the green , are also compared , the number of watts necessary to produce any temperature in which the same red and green rays bear a known proportion to the same rays in a candle flame may be found by a simple calculation .
If the thermopile be used , the same procedure may be adopted , in which case it wonld be advisable to use rays in the invisible spectrum of low refrangibility .
For this , of course , the prism must be used wibh judgment , and after its constants have been properly determined , which we have found no difficulty ourselves in doing .
With a grating the deflections on the galvanometer are much smaller , and the errors of observation are consequently likely to be proportionally larger than if the large deflections as given when using a prism are employed .
Then , again , too , in using a reflection-grating , certainty must be obtained that the intensity of the spectra follows the theoretical law , or at all events it must be ascertained what is the deviation from it .
This is a point that Professor Rowland has exemplified practically , as he has produced gratings in which the intensity of spectra on each side of @84 .
] On a Gravity Danietl 's of small Resistance .
173 central image are not comparable , and one of us has a Rutherfurd rating in which the infra-red rays in the 1st order ars absent after 9000 .
In conclusion we may say that the radiation apparently ries as to , where and are constants and the temperature . .
On a Gravity Daniell 's Cell of very small Internal Resistance By J. T. BOTTONILEY .
Communicated by Professor Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , F.B.S. Received May 29 : 1884 .
I beg leave to describe a new arrangsment of gravity Daniell 's ; oell which I have found manageable and convenient for supplying FIG. 1 .
continuously and steadily a very powerful current of electricity .
It has proved of great service for graduating ampere-meters and for such purposes .

