]\gt ; 71 ] II .
A Class of Functional Invariants .
A. R. FORSYTH , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of College , mbrldge .
Received March 7 , \mdash ; Read March 15 , 1888 .
THE investigations herein contained are indirectly connected with some results in an earlier memoir .
* In that memoir functions called quotient-derivatives are obtained in the form of certain combinations of differential coefficients of a quantity dependent on a single independent variable ; and they are there shown to possess the property of invariance for isolated raphic transformations of the dependent and the independent variables .
It is evident , however , from their form that they do not constitute the complete aggregate of irreducible invariants for the case of a single independent variable ; and the deduction of this aggregate and an investigation of the relation in which they stand to a particular class of eciprocants were made in a subsequent paper .
The present memoir is a continuation of the theory of functional invariants , the invariants herein considered being constituted by combinations of the differential coefficients of a function of more than one independent variable which are such ] when the independent variables are transformed , each combination is reproduced save as to a factor depending on the transformations to which the variables are subjected .
The transformations , in the case of which any detailed results are given , are of the general homographic type ; and the vestigations are limited to invariantive derivatiyes of a function of two independent variables only , a limitation introduced partly for the sake of conciseness .
The characteristic properties , such as the symmetry of the invariants and the forms of the simultaneous linear partial differential equations satisfied by them , can in the case of more than two independent variables be inferred from the properties actually given ; but many of the deductions made are necessarily proper to functions of only two independent variables .
In the matter of notation it is convenient here to state that the independent variables are denoted by and.y , and the dependent variable by .
The general differential coefficient is represented by } ; but frequently the following modifications for the notation of particular coefficients are made , .
: replace : replace : . . .
: . . .
: * ' ' Invariants , Covariants , and Quotient-Derivatives associated with Linear Differential Equations ' Phil. Trans , 1888 , pp. 377-489 .
" " Homographic Tnvariants and Quotient-Derivatives , \ldquo ; 'Mess .
of NIath vol. 17 ( 1888 ) , pp. 154-192 .
respectively .
The transformed independent variables are denoted by X and ; and quantities bearing to them the same relation as , he foregoing bear to and are denoted by , . .
And in three different instances it has been ] necessaly , for the sake of uniformity of notation for similar successions of quantities , to use different symbols for the same quantity occurring in different successions ; these are , ( SS12,13 ) , ( SS16,17 ) .
The general results of the memoir may be stated as follows:\mdash ; Every invariant is explicitly free from the variables themselves , viz. , the dependent the two independent variables ; it is homogeneous in the differential coefficients of the dependent variable ; it is of uniform grade in differentiations regard to each of the dependent variableis , and it is either symmetric or skew symmetric with regard to such differentiations .
It satisfies six linear partial differential equations , all of the first order , of which four ] are characteristic equations and determine the form of the invariant , the remaining two index equations and are identically satisfied when the form is known and the index is derived by inspection from the form .
Every invariant involves the two differential coefficients of the first order .
The following results relative to irreducible inyariants derived from a single dependent variable are given :-The invariants can be ranged in sets , each set being proper to a particular rank .
There ' no invariant proper to the rank 1 ; there is one proper to the rank 2 ; there are three invariants proper to the rank 3 ; and , for a value of greater than 3 , there are invariants proper to the rank , which can be chosen so as to be linear in the differential coefficients of order .
Every invariant can be expressed in terms of these irreducible invariants ; and the expression involves invariants of no higher than the order of the highest differential coefficient which occurs in that invariant .
In the case of irreducible invariants , involving differential coefficients of two dependent variables , it is shown that there is a single one proper to the rank 1 , and that there are four proper to the rank 2 .
Some eductive operators are given ; and in one case the educts are discussed so as to select those of the invariants thus obtained which are evidently reducible .
Some general results analogous to reversor operations are derived .
Finally , it is shown how the theory of binary forms can be partly connected with the theory of functional invariants ; for functional invariants are expressible in terms of the simultaneous concomitants of a certain set of quantities , viewed as binary quantics of successive orders in and as yariables .
[ Note added December 5 , \mdash ; The invariants in the present memoir are distinct * An invariant said to be prope to the rank when the highest differential coefficient of ring i it is of order This addition is due to a desire which has been expressed that some indication should be given of the difference between the functions considel.od in the prcsent memoir and invariantive functions of MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
in character from the differential invariants of I. HALPHEN and the ternary reciprocants of Mr. LLIOTT .
The earliest record of .
HALPHEN'S investigations is his well-known thesis , wherein he considers the invariance of a differential equation when the single independent variable and the single dependent variable are ( p. 20 , loc. cit. ) subjected to the transformation The only reference in the thesis to the case of three variables is ( p. 60 ) in the concluding paragraph , where it is said that the theory can be extended to the case of one dependent variable and two dependent variables and , the transforrnation suggested , but not explicitly stated , being M. , again , considers differential invariants , in which the last transformation is effected on functions of the three variables ; but in this ation and are taken to be two dependent variables of the single independent variable Mr. ELLIOTT'S theory of ternary reciprocants is closely connected with the concluding paragraph of M. HALPHEN'S thesis ; the functions are invariantive for interchanges of , where is a variable dependent on and ; and the pure reciprocants inyariantive for the above-suggested transformations .
The theory in this memoir deals almost entirely with the case of three bless , , where is a variable , and and are independent variables .
The transformations , through which the invariance is maintained , refer to the independent variables only ; they are\mdash ; The dependent variable is left untransformed ; it does not enter into the equations of transformation .
It follows , from the rence between the transformation in the theory here other classes , such as the differential riants of M. LPHEN and the of * les Differentiels , ' Paris , 1878 .
" " Sir les Invariants Differentiels des Courbes gauches .
de cole p vol. ) 1880 , pp. 1-102 .
" " On Ternary -ary Rcciprocants Londoll .
Proc. ' vol. 17 .
) ; " " On the Linear Partial Equations satisfied by pure Ternary Reciprocants ibid. , vol. 18 ( 1887 ) , pp. 142-164 ; " " On pure Ternary Reciprocants and Functions lied to them ibid. , vol. 19 ( 1888 ) , pp. 6-23 .
posed in which the dependent variable does not enter into the equations of transformation , .and the transformations above indicated in which the occurrence of the dependent variable in the equations of tratlsformation is essential , that different results will be obtained .
Two examples will suffice .
First , a comparison of the characteristic equations of ELLIOTT'S reciprocants and of those characteristic of the present functional invariants may be made from the forms expressed in the notations of this memoir:\mdash ; Annihilators of ELLIOTT'S reciprocants .
Annihilators of Inyariants in this . . . .
MR. A. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
Second , as an inference from the equations , in ELLIOTT'S theory , it follows that all pure reciprocants are iants of the binary quantics , . . .
\mdash ; but all invariants are not reciprocants\mdash ; and that there are no covariants among these .
From the equations , in the Qent theory it follows that all the invariants are riants of the binary quantics , . .
\mdash ; but not all algebraical covariants are functional invariants ; and , from the other equations , that algebraical invariants of these quantics are functional invariants .
In particular , is a reciprocant , but not a functional invariant ; is a functional invariant , but not a reciprocant .
] olated Tmations .
1 .
We may briefly consider functions which are invariantive .
merely isolated changes of the independent variables , that is , for changes which are effected by one relation between and X only , and one relation between and only .
For such transformations we have so that is an absolute invariant .
Again , ' so that and are absolute invariantive operators , which , when applied to absolute invariants , will produce absolute invariants .
We therefore the seriefi ; and so on .
The operators and may be applied , any number of times in any order , to the absolute invariant ( or any other invariant which is absolute ) , and the result will be an absolute invariant .
These invariants possess their property for any general ] ated transformations of and ; but , if special isolated transformations are effected on and on , e.g. , the homographic transformations of the form ' additiollal i will be introduced .
For instance , we then have both absolute invariants ; in the the variation of in the latter the variation of , do not come into consideration .
From these we can derive a series of educts by the application of tions of the absolute invariantive operators .
When any such educt is ntive , say , we may obtain from it other invariants by as the function , the differential coefficients of which to enter , not , but any educt which is absolute invariant .
All such invariants , however , thus obtained are expressible in terms of the educts obtained from and by repeated application of and in all possible combinations .
Tbus , it is easy to verify that if I be any absolute invariant , and , I its , and third educts due to successive tions on I by , the equation is satisfied ; and the is general .
2 .
Nor is it necessary to consider in any detail funct , ions of the rential coefficients of , which for of the ; that is , for a transformation which connects with a new variable without regard to the dependent variables .
Such a transformation can be effected by means of an equation , ; and we then have ' Since is determinate from the transforming equation , it follows that is an absolute invariant for the transformations at present under consideration .
Moreover , in the present case and are absolute invariantive operators ; and therefore MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
will , for all values of and , be an absolute invariant .
Thus , taking in succession and , and and , we have and the former of which , multiplied by and subtracted from he , gives as an absolute invariant , or as a relative invariant , for the present transformation .
Genc , ral 3 .
We now proceed to the consideration of functions which are ntive for the general simultaneous homogra , phic transformation of the independent variables represented by As it will be convenient to have some one invariant at least , , a relative invariant for these transformations can be obtained as follows .
An integral relation given by reproduces itself in form when the independent variables are subjected to the above transformation ; and the differential equation which is the equivalent of this integral relation will , therefore , also reproduce itself , and so will furnish an invariant .
Now , both and satisfy the three equations ; and therefore , substituting as the value of in these , we have The elimination of between these leads to the result ; and , th erefore , is an invariant .
The integral of a partial differential equation of the second order , which is most general so far as concerns the number of arbitrary constants , contains five such independent arbitrary constants ; and , therefore , a general integral of is It has already appeared that is an invariant for arbitrary change of ; and therefore , an immediate corollary is that , where is arbitrary , is a general integral of the equation 4 .
As an invariant is self-reproductive after transformations have been effected , save as to a factor , it is necessary to obtain the form of this factor .
For this purpose it will be sufficient to consider a simple case .
Let and be functions , and suppose the transformations of the variables to be any whatever , say of the form , Then we have .
; and therefore Hence , in the present case , the factor is ; and , by the analogy of all invariants , factor for any one will be some power of J. The invariants at present under consideration may , therefore , be defined as follows : MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
'79 A function of the partial differential coefficients of with regard to and to is called an if , the independent variables are to X and the same function of the new forjned , the is tisfied , 5 .
The following properties of irreducible invariants are easily obtained:\mdash ; An invariant does not contain the dependent variable , nor either of the independent ariables .
An invariant is homogeneous in the differential coefficients .
( iii .
) An invariant is of uniform grade equal to its index , in tiation with regard to ; and of uniform grade , also equal to its index , in differentiation with regard to An invariant is either symmetric or skew differentiation with regard to the independent variables .
All these properties hold of , the index of which is easily seen to be 2 ; it is a symmetric invariant , that is , it is unchanged if and be interchanged .
The index of a symmetric invariant is an even integer ; the index of a skew symmetric invariant is an odd integer .
These properties hold for functions which are invariants for any general transformation , and not merely for the homographic trunsformations to be adopted ; but the forms of possible functions , as well as the value of , will be determined by the character of the transformation .
And , in particular , for the homographic transformation it is easy to prove that 6 .
The method adopted for the determination of the forms of invariants wil ] be to obtain the partial differential equations satisfied by them ; these equations can be obtained , in a similar case , by using the principle of complete infinitesimal variation .
For this purpose it will be necessary to have the formulae expressing the relations between differential coefficients of when the variables are transformed .
This relation is given in the following proposition , the transformations being supposed any whatever .
The special application to the homographic transformation will afterwards be made .
grade of a term is the sum of the ordel.s of differentiation with regard to one variable of the factors ; thus , the -grade of is 2 ; the -grade is 2 .
" " Homographic Invariants and Quotient-Derivatives , \ldquo ; ' Mess .
of Math vol. 17 ( 1888 ) , pp. Let , and let the variables be transformed by the equations .
Let so that and vanish with and .
Then , by the generalised form of TAYLOR'S Theorem , is the coefficient of in the expansion in ascending powers of , where and occur only in and .
Now , an therefore , where denotes the coefficient of in the expansion of in ascending powers of and .
When and both vanish , or en the coefficient is zero .
The form of the corresponding theorem for the case of any number of independent variables is evident .
Homographic : Characteristic 7 .
When we consider the general homographic transformation , we may take and to be zero , for the invariants do not explicitly contain and , but only differential oefficients with regard to them , and so they may be modified by the subtraction of the respective constants ; and then the general forms are equivalent to In order to apply the method of infinitesimal variation , it is sufficient to make the factor nearly equal to unity , or , what is the same thing , to make nearly equal to MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
X and nearly equal to .
Hence , we take to be unity , and and small , resl)ectively ; and and are to be considered small , quantities of the first order being retained .
Thus , we have , 1 1 , , 1 , , 1 1 , , 1 , so far as quantities of the first order .
Also X , to the same order ; and therefore , .
Hence , to the first order inclusive , we have and therefore , , All other coefficients are negligible , being of a higher order of small quantities or zero ( non-occurring ) ; and these give all the combinations of values of and ?
for .
Therefore , for all values of and , we have MR. A. R. FORSyTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARJANTS .
8 .
If , then , we have an invariant .
of index , such that and we substitute for for differential coefficients , and then expand , ret ining all ] quantities of the first order , we have the following equations derived from a comparison of corresponding terms .
From the terms which are multiplied by ; from the terms in 22 ( ii .
) ; from the terms in ; from the terms in . . . . .
; from the terms in . . . . .
; and from the terms in .
Equations determine the form of the function ; when the form is obtained , the index is derivabls by inspection , and equations and ( ii .
) are then identically satisfied .
9 .
Before considering these equations , characteristic of the invariants , one remark should be made .
If the quantities and are absolutely zero so that the transformations are that is , transformations to which a binary form is subject , the terms which , in what precedes , give rise to equations ) do not exist , and , therefore , these equations do not exist ; but there are terms in and , and , therefore , equations and ( vi .
) survive , being in fact the partial differential equations determining those covariants which can be expressed in terms of partial differential coefficients of the form with to the variables .
MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTTONAL INVARIANTS .
in the 10 .
First , let us consider invariants which involve no partial differential coefficients of order higher than the second .
The differential equations to be satisfied are , in the non-subscript notation , ( iii .
) so far as concerns the form of the function .
From these equations we have When is taken to be the common value of these fractions , it follows that .
Now , is a perfect differential , and therefore is some function of ; hence , also is some function of , and therefore the only irreducible cohich contains differential coefficients of not higher thoe second is This is the function , already ( S3 ) considered ; the integral equation corresponding to the vanishing of this invariant is known .
in the Third Order .
11 .
When we come to consider invariants which involve differential coefficients of higher order , the methodjust used is no longer available , because the four differential equations are not sufficient to determine the ratios of the differential coefficients which enter .
If the determination of the invariants be made from the point of view that they simultaneous solutions of the four equations , one method of will be to adopt process .
Any lction f , which satisfies , must also satisfy each of the equations for , 3 , 4 .
Forming these , it is easy to show that after substitution and collection .
Since this does not vanish in virtue of any one of the giyen , we must have a new equation , to be associated with the rest .
But this is the only additional equation ; for ; ; ; ; ; : ; ; It is easy to verify that satisfies ( vii .
) .
Every iuvariant will be a simultaneous solution of ) .
It may be noticed that the equation can be otherwise obtained ; it arises by .
the left-hand sides of equations and ( ii .
) to one another , for , on re-arrangement of this , we have Hence ' .
equation may be considered as replacing either or ( ii .
) ; and any function , which is a simult neous solution of and for the same value of satisfies and ( ii , ) , wil ] .
also satisfy .
One deduction as to the character of the invariants can at once be made from the form of the equations .
MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
Every involve For every irreducible invariant satisfies the five equations ; if then it be independent of , we have .
Since there is no term in it which involves , and since there is a single term involving in , we must therefore have , i.e. , the function must be independent of .
From , it then follows that and both vanish ; from , it then follows that and both vanish , and , therefore , that involyes no differential coefficients of the second order .
Proceeding in this way to the successive orders , it appears that involves no diffel.ential coefficients whatever ; so that it cannot be an invariant , other than a constant or 12 .
Proceeding now to the consideration of invariants which involve differential coefficients of the third order as the highest , and denoting them for convenience by respectively ) , we have , as subsidiary equations necessary for the construction of the general solution of ) set To deduce that general solution , eight independent integrals of the subsidiary set must be obtained ; bearing in mind the character of the invariants ( S 11 ) ultimately to be arrived at , we take these integrals in the form Any solution of the equation ca , u be expressed as a combination of , . . .
, ?
; thus and so on .
MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF ] INVARIANTS .
In order to obtain the most general solution which simultaneously satisfies and , it will be sufficient to obtain the irreducible functional combinations of . . .
, , which satisfy .
Now , ; and ; so that Hence , the most general simultaneous solution of , and , can be expressed as a functional combination of In order to obtain the most general simultaneous solution of , it will be sufficient to obtain the irreducible functional combinations of which satisfy .
Now , it is easy to show that ; and ; so that Hence , the most general simultaneous solution of can be expressed as a functional tion of MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
In order to obtain the most general simultaneous solution of , it will be sufficient to obtain the irreducible functional combinations of which satisfy .
Now it is easy enough to show that ; and that If , then , we write these equations become ; and therefore , bearing in mind that , we have Hence the most general simultaneous solution of can be expressed as a functional combination of , and 13 .
Before considering the question as to whether these functions satisfy and , and , therefore , also ( vii .
) , it is desirable to modify their expressions .
We have already had the quantity ; it is the same as , so that we write ; and it will be convenient to write MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF UNCTlONAL INVARIANTS .
Then we have But where denotes the Jacobian of with regard to and .
Similarly , ; so that being the discriminant of For the modification of the expression of we have , on substituting for the quantities in terms of the quantities .
The modification of the second term has already been given ; for the third we have ; ( pd \mdash ; \mdash ; ; ; where denotes the simultaneous Hessian of and with regard to and Hence \mdash ; For we have , after substitution for , the form \mdash ; .
MR. A. B. ON A CLASS OF FUNC , TIONAL INVARIA Now , for the first set of terms where is the Hessian ] of considered as ground-form in and ; and the third set of terms is For the middle set of terms it is easily found , by the results already proyed , that the terms within the bracket can be expressed in the form \mdash ; 3 say ; so that we have 14 .
Considering now the question as to whether each of functions thus obtained will satisfy and ( ii .
) , for one and the same numerical of the index associated with it , we may proceed as follows .
Writing the in the . . . . .
, , we have the following result : \mdash ; By means of these results we at once find ; ; ; Hence satisfy all the necessary equations , and they are therefore invariants ; their respective indices are 2 , 4 , 9 , 6 ; and , therefore , every inrolves differential coefficients of of ordc ) not higher can be expressed changing from the quantity , the eqnations ; ; ; \mdash ; \mdash ; ; ; The invariant is that which was obtained before , and it may be called the irreducible invariant of the second order ; the invariants may be called the irreducible invariants of the third order .
15 .
It may be emarked that the quantities additional to and which are necessary for the expression of all belong to the simultaneous concomitant MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVA RIANTS .
system of and regarded as binary ground-forms in as variables .
* To this we shall return .
16 .
There is a succession of invariants of consecutive orders , comparatively simple in form , which can be derived by using the remark made in S9 .
A set of invariants of the form gested by the covariants of a binary quantic , which involve only differential coefficients of the quautic with respect to the variables , is derivable by considering the functions in analogous HERMITE'S " " sociated c\ldquo ; which may be ta.ken to be for values 2 , 3 , 4 , . .
of It is easy to see that each of these functions satisfies the equations and , viz. , and ; these , in fact , are the equations which suggest the functions .
But , when we consider the operators and ; which do not arise in connexion with coyariants of binary forms , we have . . .
; and , similarly , Again , in regard to the operators which occur in , it is easy t show that If , then , we can obtain combinations of , . .
which are homogsneous and of uniform grade , such as to satisfy and , these combinations will be invariants ; and it follows from the effect of the linear operators on the quantities A that any combination of the 's which satisfies will also satisfy Highel ' Algebra ' ( edition ) , S 198 ; CLEBSCH , 'Theorie der binaren ' S 59 ; GORDAN , Vorlesungen uber iantentheorie , ' vol. 2 , S 31 .
The quantities , A are , save as to numerical factors , respectively the same as symbols , ; as svmbols symboIs ON A OF INVART A inations of this kind , which are of uniform grade and are homogeneous , are A , and so on .
hen ubsti t and the coefficients , . .
are inined is fied , we find the following set of invariants:\mdash ; , \mdash ; Tbese combinations suggest an analogy with the coefficients of the principal irreducible of a quantic .
If we change the symbols by the relation .
then , except as to numerical factors , the functions a re , , they follow the same law of formabion as the leading terms of the covariants referred to ; and they can therefore be expressed in terms of the quantities and can thence be deduced in terms of the quantities A. All these functions satisfy the equation that is , they satisfy the equation by means of which the numerical coefficients can be directly determined .
It is evident from the form of that the highest order of coefficient which enters is the , that all the differential coefficients of the order enter linearly and into only one set of terms , and that the remaining terms all involve coefficients of lower order of differentiation .
MR. A. .
FORSyTH ON CLASS OF TNVARIANTS .
9.3 Invariants in the Order .
17 .
To obtain the irreducible invariants which involve ential coefficient of order higher than four , we proceed as in 11 by forming the irreducible fnnctions which satisfy the differential equations ; among these functions the invariants already obtained ] occur .
For convenience , let the differential coefficients of the fourth order be denoted by respectively ) .
Then , beginning as before with the subsidiary equations additional to those already considered are ; of which the irreducible independent integrals are ; and any solution of is expressible as a ) function of , . .
, The remainder of the allalysis is very similar to that which has been usea for the earlier question , and so it is not here reproduced ; the following are the results:\mdash ; ( i ) The functional combinations of the thirteen quantities which satisfy which therefore , irreducible simultaneous solutions are ; \mdash ; ( ii ) The functional combinations of these twelve quantities which satisf.y ( and which are therefore the irreducible simultaneous solutions of ) are ; ; ( iii ) When these functional combinations are substituted in turn for in , the equations additional to those in can be transformed to ; and therefore , if we write these equations become In addition to the former irreducible solutions , , which were obtained from equations in S 13 , the following irreducible solutions can be obtained:\mdash ; , .
MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
These are not necessarily the simplest forms obtainable , but very simultaneous solution of can be expressed as a functional combination of , .
, It will be seen that the new irreducible functions , . .
, linear in the quantities , . .
, , and are therefore linear in the partial differential coefficients of the fourth order .
In this respect they apparently differ from , which are the irreducible invariants of the third rank in differentiation ; but , if we take instead of an equivalent invariant , which is the law of successive formation of the invariants ( the new ) is similar to that for the functions , . .
, 18 .
But , before it can be asserted that , . .
are invariants , it must be shown that they severally for a common value of satisfy the equations and ( ii ' .
) .
Now the following ults are easily obtained:\mdash ; MR. A. R. ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
this Table it at ollce follows that Hence , ) ; of in.dices , 15 , 12 , 9 , 6 respectively ; and inrolres coefficient of order higher tham th fourth cxpresse 19 .
And if , among the sets of reducible invariants thus obtained , those invariants which involve the partial diffel.ential coefficients of the as the highest that occur , and which linear in those partial differential coefficients of highest order , are called irreducible invariants proper to the rank , then we have he propositions relating to the complete of invariants:\mdash ; ( i ) The irreducible variants can be ranged in sets , set being proper to a particular allk ; ( ii ) There is no irreducible invariant proper to the rank unity ; ( iii ) There is a single irreducible invariant proper to the rank 2 ; ( iv ) There are three irreducible proper to the rank 3 ; ( v ) For every value of greater than 3 , there are ?
irreducible invariants proper to the rank , and they can be so chosen as to be linear in the differential coefficients of order ; ( vi ) invariant can be expressed as function of the irreducible invariants ; and , if such an have differential coefficients of order as those of highest order occurring in it , the functional equivalent involves some or of the aggregate of irreducible invariants proper to ranks not greater than ; it involves some of .
irreducible proper to the rank , but no irreducible invariant proper to a rank greater than ?
Simultaneous of 20 .
Hitherto we have considered invariants of a single dependent variable which is a function of the two independent variables ; but we may consider a second dependent variable , say , which is also a function of and .
The two quantities MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
and are independent of one another ; but , if a third dependent variable be introduced , it can , by the elimination of , be expressed in terms of and alone , and its ants will be expressible partlly in terms of the invariants of and of , and partly in terms of functions arising in connexion with the transformation of and .
It is thus sufficient to consider two , and not more than two , dependent variables when there are two independent variables .
21 .
In addition to the invariants possessed by each of the dependent variables separately , there will be simultaneous invariants which involve differential coefficients of both the variables ; such a simultaneous invariant is which we have already obtained in S 4v .
When the characteristic differential equations of simultaneous invariants are formed by the already ( S8 ) adopted for invariants of a single function , they are as foliows : generally denote the Qame function associated with that denotes associated with .
Then the equations satisfied by a simultaneous invariant of two functions and are It is easy to verify that satisfies these equations , its index being unity ; and it is evident that the invariants of alone , and those of alone , all satisfy these equations .
As in S 11 , it is easy to prove that every simultaneous must ) ; or and ; or 22 .
The only simultaneous invariant so far obtained is ; we proceed obtain all the simultaneous invariants which involve no differential coefficients of of which are of order higher than the second , using for this purpose the lnethod adopted in SS 12 , 17 .
Among these invariants there must evidently occur the two latter being invariants each in one dependent variab ] oniy , which satisfy all the equations .
CLXXXIX .
king the eqnabions in the order adopted before and beginning with we ] the set of subsidiary tions nine in number .
It is necessary to obtain nine independent integrals of the set ; and we take these in the form bearing in mind the property above proved .
By the theory of linear partial differential of the first order , it follows that every solution of the equation can be expressed as a functional combination of .
Thus , and so on .
To obtain the most general solution of , it will be sufficient to the irreducible cornbinations of , .
, which satisfy .
Now , ; ; ; ; and ; so that ; nd , therefore , the irreducible combinations which satisfy n , re where To obtain the most general solution of , it will be sufficient to form the irreducible combinations of the preceding eight quantities which satisfy .
Now NIR .
A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
and Hence ( H ) ; and therefore , if the irreducible combinations which satisfy , Q. It is now necessary to obtain the irreducible combinations of these seven quantities which satisfy .
We have ; so that Again , Now , ; so that ; and hence Q. Again , ; but ; and ; MR. A. R. FORSyTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
so that P. Hence .
Hence If now we write the three results can be put into the \mdash ; \mdash ; And , further , we have Since the result of operating with on gives a quantity into which A enters linearly , and the result of operating with on ives another quantity into which enters linearly , we sre led to assume that the irreducible solution ( or solutions ) of are of the form where are independent of A and B. If this be a solution , we have ; and we suppose and so determined that MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
But , if , them ; so that ; and therefore whence or First , taking , we have and therefore Hence we take one irreducible solution Second , taking , we have ; and therefore Hence we may take as another irreducible solution And it follows from the method of derivation , and by an application of the theory of lin partia , l differential equations , that every simultaneous solution of the equations which involyes no quantity of order higher than can be expressed as a functional combination of 23 .
It is now necessary to consider the index equations .
We have for ; so that is an invariant of index unity .
For we have ; so that is an invariant of index ; and similal .
lie for , ; so that is an invariant of index 2 .
It is desirable to modify the forms of X and .
so as to express them explicitly in terms of the quantities 1\ldquo ; , . . .
When the values of , C. are substituted in X , and it is multiplied , it takes the form which may be denoted by ; and when exactly the same operations are applied to , it takes the form which may be denoted by It is now easy to yerify that ; so that is an invariant of index 2 ; and similarly that ; so that is an invariant of index 2 .
24 .
The general result of the preceding investigation can be enunciated as follows:\mdash ; Every of .
fu nctions and of two independent xhich lvolves no differential of order higher ihan the second , be expressed in terms of the five irreducible invaricmts and % { qq'r ' , ; hare their rential coefficients of of *It is easy to see that the invariant , formed for is This remark is practically due to Professor CAYLEY .
MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
Theor . ?
) of 25 .
It already appeared from S4 that the operator operating produces an invariant of index unity .
But for the purposes of this operation may be regarded merely as an unchanging quantity , and , therefore , it may be replaced by an absolute invariant ( of index zero ) ; and , when the operator acts upon an absolute invariant , there results a , of next higher rank in the differential coefficient of the variabl and of index unity .
We can , however , make the operator an absolute invariant , for the index of is 2 ; and , therefore , is an absolute invariantive operator which , when it operates on an absolute invariant , generates a new absolute invariant of next higher rank .
The operator can evidently be applied any number of times in succession , so that , if I be an absolute invariant , is an absolute invariant for all values of the index Similarly , the result of operating upon any absolute invariant with the operator is to give a relative invariant of index unity ; and , if we are considering simultaneous invariants in two variables and , then are absolute invariantive operators , which , when applied to absolute invariants , produce absolute invariants .
26 .
Thus , in the case of a single dependent variable , we have as the three irreducible invariants proper to the rank three , and they form the complete of lcible absolute invaliarts within this rank .
Hence are absolute proper the rank four .
But it is not to be inferred that constitute the complete system of in.educible absolute inval.iants within the rank four .
Again , in the operator the quantities and are differential coefficients of an unchanging quantity ; they can be replaced by first differential coefficients of any absolute invariant I , and then is an absolute inyariantive operator , the operation of which on absolute inyariants produces other absolute invariants .
Hence are absolute invariants proper to the rank four , and they are of the second degree in the coefficients of the fourth order .
Among the six quantities there is the relation , ; so that only five of them can be independent .
27 .
In any higher let I , , . .
be the invariants , absolute and irreducible , proper to that rank ; let I ' denote the absolute inyariant educed from I by the operator , and the absolute invariant educed from I by the operator , MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INyARIANTS being an absolute invariant .
Then , by means of all the eductive operators associated with absolute invariants of successiye , we can obtain I the set of educed invariants I ' ; ; ; .
; , . .
, all proper to the rank ; and there is a similar set from each of the other invariants , . . .
This number , however , can be at ) reduced ; for , if be any educed invariant other than I ' , we have ' , ( 1 , ; ' I and therefore which shows that can be expressed in terms of I ' and , and of invariants proper to lower ranks if be different from , . .
, and that , if coincide with one of the invariants , . .
, the invariant can be expressed in terms of the set I ' , , . .
, the set , . .
, and of proper to lower ranks .
lt therefore follows that the invariants , educed from the absolute irreducible invariants I , , .
proper to the rank / , can be expressed in terms of I ' , , . .
; , . . .
proper to the rank , and of invariants proper to lower ranks .
these educed , are , if ?
be greater in the partial differential coefJicients , which are of order , and so determine rank of the invariants .
We know that , for values greater than 3 , the number of irreducible proper to the rank is , all of which can be made absolute on division an appropriate power of ; hence , the umber of invariants educed as above is 2 , which must ] ] expressible in terms of the irreducible invariants propel to the rank .
But so far there is nothing to indicate which of them , or how many of them , are equivalent to irreducible invariants proper to the rank to which they belong .
28 .
Again , we have seen that there are four simultaneous invariants of two tunctions proper to the rank 2 , and that there is a single invariant proper to the rank 1 ; so that are absolute irreducible invariants proper to the rank 2 .
Let ; ; ; then , are educed invariants proper to the rank three .
But instead of and , or and , we can substitute the first differenbial coefficients of any unchanging quantity , say of any one of the absolute invariants , and thus educe new invariants .
All these , however , can be expressed in terms of the set of eight already retained ; for we at once have ; and therefore which proves the statement .
* Hence , through the present class of eductive operators we are able to derive from the simultaneous invariants proper to a rank double the number of educed invariants proper to the next higher rank ; but it is not to be inferred that they are all irreducible , or that they form the complete system of irreducible invariants proper to that rank .
29 .
The foregoing linear operators are not the only eductive operators ; in fact , each new invariant suggests a new eductive operator .
For the fundamental property of non-variation on the part of , the differential coefficients of which are combined into , enables us to substitute for any other unchanging quantity , such as absolute invariant .
Thus , for instance , if I be auy invariant , then * Similarly for functions of ; tbus .
A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
the same function of I as is of , is an invariant of index 2 , and the same function of and I as is of and , is an invariant of index 2 .
30 .
The expressions for educed invariants can be applied as to obtain the expressions for the eflects of the operation of on of th with to the Let V be invariant of index , and let the operators be denoted by S and S ' respectively .
Then S ' are invariants of index ; they must satisfy the equations Hence JSV mVSJ , S ' are satisfied for each of the operators , because and are themselves invariants .
Now , actual substitution gives ; ; ; ; and therefore ; ; ; Now , since ( SV ) and it follows from the first pair of equations that .
A. R. FORSyTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARTANTS .
Similarly , the second pair ; the third } ) ; and from the fourth pair And the general laws , of which these are particular examples , and which can be established by means of the successive educts of the invariant V , are From these the effect on V of any combinations in any order of the operators , can be deduced .
31 .
The following is another appiication of the theory of eduction .
The index of ( S 16 ) is 6 , so that is an absolute and therefore is an invariant , say S .
A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLAS OF ONAL I Now the quantities are expressed in terms of the quantities ; and from the values of those quantities it at once follows that and therefore in particular Hence ; an therefore an proper to the rank 5 .
But \mdash ; is an invariant proper to the rank 5 ; hence \mdash ; \mdash ; is an invariant , and it is evidently proper to the rank 4 .
It must , therefore , be expressible in terms of the irreducible invariants within the rank 4 given by , , The verification of this inference is as follows .
32 .
We have ; when the values of and of .
: and respectively\mdash ; are substituted , we at once have \mdash ; \mdash ; thus identifying with Again , we have \mdash ; ; so that X , denoting , includes all terms proper to the rank 4 .
When we substitute for , and their values we where X ' .
Now , for the first part of X we have ; and the former of the two last lines being obtained partly from the forms of and and partly because and are homogeneous in and .
Hence and X ' includes terms of rank not greater than 3 .
It thus appears that the aggregate of the terms proper to the rank 4 are functionally the same in a , s in we have Now , from S 13 we have ; and from the values of and it follows that MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
Substituting now in , in , and for the as given for and in the two equations ( so as to express all the aggregates of coefficients to the rank 3 in terms of and to leave the residue of terms\mdash ; if there be a residue\mdash ; as a function of ) and gathering together like terms , we find ' \mdash ; Hence we have ; and it follows that the first ednct of reduced by of , is functionally to the invariant 33 .
In the preceding ation the Jacobian of the function and .
any other function of the series in entered .
The following fornlulae , interesting in themselves , are of use in a verification that actually all the differential equations which are characteristic of an invariant:\mdash ; For and , for ; and , for and , for ; and , for all values of ; Froln these it follows that , if neither nor be zero , and \mdash ; Connexiomrith Tl , 34 .
In connexion with the fact that the irreducible invariants proper to the rank 3 are expressible in terms of the simultaneous concomitants of and , viewed as binary forms ( quadratic and cubic ) in and as variables , it is important to remark that the equations and are in fact the differential equations satisfied by all concomitants of binary forms which have for their variables , and have ; ; ; for their coefficients , that is , of , . .
, viewed as binary forms .
Each form of a concomitant-system satisfies the equations characteristic of its conMR .
A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
comitants ; and it thus appears how , . .
are simultaneous solutions of the two characteristic equations in question .
Moreover , since the Jacobian of two binary forms occurs in their concomitant-system , and therefore satisfies the characteristic equations , it is now evident that the quantities denoted by , being must satisfy the equations Hence , it that one of obtaining the irreducible invariants , which are proper to the rank and are additional to those proper to ranks less than , is as follows:\mdash ; ( l ) to obtain the concomitants of , and the simultaneous concomitants of , and of the concomit , ant-system of , .
, , viewed as binary forms ; ( 2 ) to frame the combinations of these concomitants which will satisfy the remainin characteristic equations to select from among these combinations such as are , from the supposed algebraical relations among the concomitants , found to be irreducible .
35 .
Again , in the case of binary forms in two systems of variables , and and , and with coefficients the characteristic equations satisfied by their simultaneous concomitants are of the form that is , And ever solution of these equations , with proper limitations as to degree and grade , is a concomitant .
Hence , every functional invariant of the two dependent variables and already considered call be expressed in terms of simultaneous concomit nts of the set of quantities . .
, viewed as binary forms in variables and and Thus , for example , we have seen the simultaneous invariants , proper to the rank 2 , are five in number , and they are\mdash ; one , , being the covariant in the variables alone ; two , and , being the quadratic forms ; and and which can be exhibited in the respective forms and are combinations of polar elnanants of and , the fundamental quadratic forms .
And , from the note to S24 , it follows that they can also be represented in the forms also in forms 36 .
Returning now to the functional invariants of only a dependent variable , we have seen that they are combinations of the simultaneous covariants of , .
, con sidered as binary forms in ( 1 and ; and all these simultaneous satisfy the equations , and must , therefore , be expressible in terms of ' . .
, , ?
, . .
The actual expressions may be obtained as follows:\mdash ; From the values of the quantities we have \mdash ; \mdash ; \mdash ; ; and so on .
It thus appears that any differential coefficient of , when multiplied by a power of equal to the -grade of the differential coefficient , is linearly expressible in terms of the quantities proper to its rank , the coefficients of these quantities in expression being powers of But the case of the function , which is MR. A. R. FORSYTH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARIANTS .
the weights of its concomitants are estimated by assigning to , 1 , -- , 2 , .
the weights , 1 , 2 , . .
in , that is , the integers which represent the -grade of these coefficients If we have a covariant of order which is simultaneous to , and of degrees .
in their respective coefficients , and its leading term be , then the weight of is , which is , therefore , the number the -grade of , considered as the leading term of a functional invariant .
Since the grade of each of the coefficients of is , it follows that the grade of , so far as it involves the coefficients of is , and , therefore , the grade of is , in the aggregate , But the aggregate grade of is the sum of the -grade and the -grade ; hence , the -grade of is .
In order , then , to express in terms of the quantities , we should proceed to substitute for the coefficients , . .
the values above obtained , and assuming . . .
, it is evident that the only term in from which terms independent of can come is the first term .
Moreover , since is expressible as a function of the quantities alone , it follows that when these substitutions are carried out the terms volving must disappear , for is the only non-u which enters into the expressions substituted ; and the value of is , therefore , the aggregate of terms which surviye , that is , the aggregate of terms independent of arising from Now , in this aggregate is obtained by replacing a coefficient , , by a quantity ; since is isobaric seminvariant , it is of uniform -grade part of functional invariant ; and therefore the result of these substitutions is to give a function of , . .
, divided by a power of equal to the -grade of , that is , divided by If , then , denote this function of , .
, we have ' or 37 .
Hence we have the following theorem : To express simultaneous concomitant of of the antities u , .
, which are the irreducible solutions of , the equation of these concomitants , it is sufficient to tloe of the highest of in , to construct function , which is the of the of is of the coefficients of tloe to divide by is the degree of in , and . . .
are the degrees of the coefficients of , . . .
respectively .
The theorem is illustrated by one or two examples which have already occurred in the leduction of .
Thus , for , we have only one quantic entering into its composition , ; so that .
, and hence , that is , Again - ; so that two quantics enter .
Thus , we have , for ; ; ; Hence as before ; and so for others .
MR. A. R. SITH ON A CLASS OF FUNCTIONAL INVARTANTS .
38 .
We , if we pleased , carry the theorem further , for every simultaneous concomitant satisfies the characteristic equations , and is therefore expressible in terms of the simultaneous irreducible solutions of these two equations .
Such irreducible solutions are necessarily functional combinations of , . .
such as satisfy ; and , as in the earlier cases of SS 14 , 17 , it is easy to show that these irreducible solutions within the ratk three are equivalent to the set , ( dropping a factor 6 ) which are respectively in GORDAN'S notation .
Thus , every simultaneous concomitant within the rank three can be expressed algebraically\mdash ; though not necessarily \mdash ; in terms of these six quantities .
The actual expression can be obtained by a development of the method adopted in the preceding theorem .
It is first necessary to replace the covariant by its value in terms of , . .
; then to substitute by means of the equations , for .
The result , we know , musb appear as a function of ; and , therefore , the terms involving will disappear , and the factors will cancel .
For example , in the case of ( GORDAN ) ( SALMON ) , we have , opping the factor 12 and using , which is \mdash ; 2 \mdash ; so that Similarly for others of the simultaneous concomitants of and .
And it is not difficult to show all functional invariants within the rank 4 , or , what is the equivalent , all the simultaneous concomitants of , considered as three binary forms , can be expressed in terms of the foregoing six quantities and the succeeding five , viz.:\mdash ; Inferences can also be deduced as to the expressibility of the simultaneous concomitants of and alone as simultaneous quantics , and of the simultaneous concomitants of and alone , as simultaneous concomitants ; but all such results are chiefly interesting from the point of view of the theory of binary forms , and are more useful in that theory than in the theory of functional invariants .

