]\gt ; 1881 .
] Vibrations of a Vortex Bing , .
145 Percentage of iodide of silver in Temperature at which con the copper-silver iodide alloys .
tract on on heat commences .
Thus while per cent. of iodide of lead lowered the point of change C. , the presence of 61.7767 per cent. of iodide of copper raised it 14 C. 9 .
The possible causes of these results are discussed .
10 .
The lead-silver iodide alloy is compared with the copper-silver iodide alloy , as to structure , properties , \amp ; c. 11 .
The results of the microscopic examinations of these ailoys is given , and shown by drawings .
12 .
The special properties of each alloy are described .
Erratum.\mdash ; " " Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. :32 , p. 550 , 16 lines from bottom of page : for " " more than twenty times read " " no Jonr bimes X. " " On the Vibrations of a Vortex Ring , and the Action of Two Vortex Rings upon each other.\ldquo ; By J. J. B.A. , Fellow of Trimity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Lord RAYLEIGH , F.B.S. Beceived Novembel 1 1881 .
( Abstract .
) In the first part of the paper it is shown that if the circular axis of a vortex be displaced so as to be represented by the equations\mdash ; nd , when is the distance of a point on the circular axis from straight axis , and the distance of a point on the circular axis from its mean plane , then\mdash ; , , when is the angular velocity of molecular rotation , the of the cross section of the vortex core , and the radius of the aper146 On the brations of a Vortex Ring , ! .
[ Dec. 8 , ture .
The cross section is supposed small compared with the aperture , so that is small compared with Thus the time of vibration is\mdash ; and the motion is stable for all such displacements .
In the second part of the paper the action of two vortices , which move so as never to approach nearer than a large multiple of the diameter of either , upon each other , is considered , and the following results among others obtained:\mdash ; If be the angle between the direction of motion of the vortices , the minimum distance between their centres , the velocity of translation of vortex ( i ) , that of vortex ( ii ) ; and angles given by\mdash ; and the strength of vortices respectively , and their of their directions of motion , we have the following results:\mdash ; The direction of motion of I is deflected towards the direction of motion of II through an angle whose circular measure is\mdash ; .
The direction of motion of II is deflected in the same direction through an angle\mdash ; The radius of vortex ( i ) is increased by\mdash ; The radius of vortex ( ii ) is diminished by\mdash ; The effects for all circumstances of motion , whether the vortices are in the same or opposite directions , may be summed up in the following rule : \mdash ; 1881 .
] by Dr. W. Roberts .
147 The vortex which first passes through point of intersection of the direction of motion of the vortices is deflected towards the direction of motion of the other , it increases in radius an energy , and its velocity of translation is diminished ; the other for tex , deflected in the same direction , it diminishes in radius and energy , and its velocity of translation is increased .
XI .
Letter addressed to the Secretary R.S. by Dr. W. ROBPRTS , F.R.S. Received December 1 , 1881 .
deference to the request of Mr. W. R. Dunstan , I wish to correct an error of omission in my paper " " the Estimation of the Amylolytic and Proteolytic Activity of Pancreatic Extracts printed in " " Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 32 , p. 145 .
Mr. Dunstan points out to me that I had overlooked a paper by himself and .
A. F. Dimmock on the " " Estimation of Diastase published in the " " Pharmaceutical Journal\ldquo ; for March 8th , 1879 , wherein he described a process , in which ( as in my method ) the cessation of the iodine reaction is utilised for the purpose of gaugmg the activity of diastasic solutions on starch gelatine .
I had not previously seen this ) , and am now glad to have the oppo11tunity of referring to it -those who are interested in diastasimetry .

