1881 .
] On a New Electrical Storage Battery .
VI .
" On a New Electrical Storage Battery .
" By Henry Sutton ( Ballarat , Victoria ) .
Communicated by The President .
Received December 10 , 1881 .
The great utility of some thoroughly practical method of conserving electric force has caused a great deal of attention to be applied to the subject ; no system of electric supply can be considered as perfect until some means is used to so store the force generated that it may be drawn off equally and regularly , and this whether the generator be on or off .
If we take , as an example of electric supply , the present systems of electric lighting , it is at once seen , should an accident or stoppage take place ' in the machinery generating the current , the whole of the apparatus such as lamps or motor-machines are influenced ; should there be a reservoir of electricity between the generator and the apparatus of whatever sort for utilising the force this inconvenience would not occur .
All the present systems of storing electricity depend on certain chemical changes produced by electrolysis .
I have gone through a long series of experiments on storing electricity and made many forms of cells , one being a porous pot containing dilute hydric sulphate and a sheet of lead , in an outer vessel containing a sheet of lead in solution of acetate of lead , the plate in the porous pot being made the positive electrode ; this cell had the power of storing electricity , by peroxidising the positive electrode , and depositing from the acetate of lead solution metallic lead on the negative electrode , the hydrogen having combined to form acetic acid .
On discharging the peroxide is reduced , and the oxide formed during discharge on the other plate dissolves in the acetic acid , forming the original solution of acetate of lead ; by this means I -eliminated the injurious effects of the hydrogen on charging .
During my experiments I found that red oxide of lead is a very bad conductor of electricity , and the peroxide a good conductor .
I also discovered that by amalgamating lead plates with mercury a marked increase was immediately manifest in polarisation effects , the plates becoming more uniformly and rapidly peroxidised when used as positive electrodes , and local action entirely disappearing .
These mercury amalgamated plates at once gave me an advance of other \#166 ; cells .
I used them in many ways , constructing cells in which the positive plate was amalgamated , and the negative coated with red oxide , or with peroxide , produced by treating red oxide with dilute hydric nitrate till the brown precipitate of peroxide fell , the precipitate being washed and painted on the electrode .
I also amalgamated the negative electrode simply .
I found that in every way positive electrodes amalgamated produced the best results .
I also Mr. H. Sutton .
[ Dec. 15 , .
made cells in which either peroxide or red oxide was formed into a porous conglomerate , using the conglomerates as electrodes , immersed in dilute hydric sulphate .
I constructed cells with parallel plates , red oxide or peroxide being filled in between the plates ; in this experiment red oxide is useless and peroxide efficient .
In all these experiments I succeeded in storing electricity to different extents .
Having thoroughly satisfied myself that positive electrodes amalgamated with mercury were the best , I investigated the behaviour of various forms of negative electrode , having in view the conservation of the hydrogen ; this I thought to do by occluding the hydrogen in suitable electrodes , as spongy platinum or metallic palladium ; but as both these methods would be useless owing to expense I did not even experiment on them .
I further thought of having negative electrodes , whose oxides should be soluble in the solution , and which could be redeposited from the solution , or of having metallic solutions from which metal could be deposited , the resulting solution being such that should , on the oxidation of the deposited metal , combine with the oxide and again form the original solution .
I thought that success in this manner would result in a powerful and constant source of stored energy , the cell would not polarise itself during discharge , as is the case in both Plante and Faure cells ; in these cells the peroxide formed by the discharge produces a contrary electromotive force .
Experimenting from this train of thought , the results I have obtained are such as to have an important practical bearing on the future of electric work .
The experiments comprised amalgamated lead as a positive electrode with negative electrodes composed of either zinc , iron , or copper , in each case the solution between the electrodes being a salt of the metal composing the negative electrode .
With zinc , sulphate of zinc was the solution ; with iron , sulphate of iron ; and with copper , sulphate of copper .
In all these cases the results were not only far more powerful than with any form of cell I had previously devised , but also very constant , the polarisation lasting many times longer than in any other form of cell .
The cell with zinc negative electrode I discarded , owing to the necessity there would be to keep the zinc plate amalgamated to prevent local action ; the iron negative electrode was set aside owing to the iron oxidising when the cell was not in use .
The cell having a negative electrode of copper , a positive electrode of lead amalgamated with mercury and a solution of cupric sulphate , I have adopted as a thoroughly economical , lasting , , and practical form of storage reservoir .
The chemical changes in this cell are exceedingly interesting and beautiful , the cell being conn posed of a sheet of lead cleaned with dilute sulphuric acid and amal3881 .
] On a New Electrical Storage Battery .
o-amated thoroughly with mercury , and a sheet of thin copper a little shorter ; the two sheets are perforated with a number of holes and then rolled in a spiral , separated by rubber bands cut every five inches , the holes in plates and cuts in rubber bands being to allow free circulation of the solution ( the short plate being uppermost before rolling ) .
This combination is immersed in a solution of cupric sulphate , and the amalgamated lead plate made the positive electrode of a suitable source of electricity , the chemical action being that the oxygen of the decomposed solution combines with the lead , forming a perfectly even coating of the insoluble peroxide , the hydrogen replacing the copper of the solution , and the copper being deposited in the metallic state on the negative electrode .
As the decomposition of the cupric sulphate proceeds the solution gradually loses its azure blue colour , becoming more acid , and finally when the whole of the copper is deposited , we have the solution colourless and transformed into hydric sulphate and water , the positive electrode peroxidised and copper deposited on the negative electrode .
During discharge the peroxide is reduced and the copper element oxidised , the oxide combining with the acid and forming cupric sulphate , the solution returning to its original colour .
This change of colour forms a beautiful means of telling when the cell is charged ; it is a veritable charging gauge .
The power of this cell is very great and very constant , it can be made to last for hours , the time being dependent on the quantity of cupric sulphate decomposed .
I have , by the decomposition and recomposition of one pint of cupric sulphate , obtained over two hours ' effective work in heating to a red heat one inch of No. 28 iron wire , the cell measuring internally 4 inches deep and 4 inches diameter .
I constructed cells with free crystals of cupric sulphate suspended in the solution , and found , that the presence of free crystals prevented the oxidation of the amalgamated lead electrode , it being essential that the solution become slightly acid before the peroxide will form .
The cell during charging gives out a peculiar rattling noise , which I consider due to the deposition of copper on the negative electrode altering the form of the spiral .
A practical form of cell for storing purposes ought to be made , by fixing a series of amalgamated lead plates in a box in grooves , as in Cruikshank 's trough battery , filling the interval between the plates with solution of cupric sulphate , and passing a current through of sufficient tension to overcome the contrary electromotive force of the series , the positive sides of the plates being peroxidised and copper deposited on the negative sides .
I have two boxes on this plan , each containing twenty-five plates , the total being equivalent to fifty cells .
By this means batteries of great tension can be charged from thirty Bunsens .
A number of twenty-five plate boxes can be coupled for 190 Mr. W. Heap .
On Germinal Layers [ Dec. 22 quantity in charging , and for tension during discharge .
Twenty such boxes , one foot square , internal measurement , will give in series a battery of 500 pairs of one foot square plates .
It will be seen from the foregoing that this method of conserving energy has a wide field before it , and as it will benefit fellow-workers in science , placing in their hands a means of experimenting with powerful electric currents , I give it without reservation , freely and untrammelled by patent rights , for their use .
December 22 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Sir William George Granville Venables Vernon Harcourt , Knt. , was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Germinal Layers and Early Development of the Mole .
" By Walter Heap .
Communicated by F. M. Balfour , F.R.S. Received November 30 , 1881 .
The following is a note on some investigations which I have been carrying on by the kindness and with the help of Mr. Balfour , in the Morphological Laboratory , Cambridge , upon the origin and formation of the germinal layers in mammals , more especially in the mole ( Talpa Europea ) .
I hope shortly to be able to give a more complete account .
In the communication the following subjects are dealt with:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The origin of the epiblast .
( 2 .
) The mode of development of the mesohlast .
( 3 .
) The structure of the neurenteric canal .
( 4 .
) The relations of the mesoblast and the hypoblast to the notochord .
Recent investigations have left the earlier phases of mammalian development in some confusion , it may therefore be advisable briefly to mention the more important views which are entertained on this subject .
Professor Edward van Beneden , in a paper entitled " La formation des feuillets chez de Lapin " ( " Archives de Biologie , " vol. i , Part 1 ,

