January 1 , 1849 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , V.P. , in the Chair .
The reading of a paper , entitled , " Contributions to the Physiology of the Alimentary Canal .
" By W. Brinton , Esq. , M.B. Communicated by R. Bentley Todd , M.D. , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
The paper consists of two parts , having a real relation to each other , though apparently little connected .
I. On Mthe Movements of the Stomach .
The anatomy of its luscular coat is first briefly mentioned , and the so-called oblique fibres of some authors stated to be really transverse , i. e. at right angles to the altered direction of the canal .
The muscular actions of the digesting stomach are then considered .
These Haller regarded as alternate contractions in two directions , now forwards , now backwards , forcing the contained food in correspondingly reversed directions , and rested this conclusion on experiment and argument ; but the author believes the experiment to be solitary , and not parallel with the fact sought to be established , and the argument to be inconclusive .
Beaumont 's views are cited as analogous to Haller 's , but are considered as having been by no means clearly stated .
The author indicates an argument from analogy , but chiefly bases his conclusion on the observations of Owen and others on Fishes , and his own observations in animals immediately after death : in the empty or non-digesting stomach ; and in the stomach which contains food ; first , in the early stage of digestion ; and , secondly , at a later period .
From a contrast of these three states it is found , that in the first there is no movement ; in the second and third a considerable one ; that in the latter , the opening of the pylorus , and the preponderance of the contractions of the pyloric half of the viscus , constitute its chief distinction from the second .
T'he two latter movements are both peristaltic , or in one direction only-being never reversed , so far as the author has seen .
The movement impressed on the food is next considered .
According to the observations of Beaumont and others , the food passes in two directions or streams , forwards and backwards .
These observations the author has been unable to repeat , but regards them as established .
Assuming the truth of these observations , and contrasting them with the muscular actions previously stated , it appears that the latter are uniformly in one direction , the former in two , -an apparent incongruity , which the author next seeks to explain .
By experiment he attempts to imitate the natural conditions , and with the production of the like result .
He next offers an explanation and illustration of the fact ( which might almost be predicated , a priori ) , and adduces some ( possible ) analogues from the animal kingdom .
He then seeks to establish a general law-that transverse contractions , occurring in a closed tube filled with fluid , and proceeding in one direction only , imply two currents ; a peripheral of advance , taking the same course as the peripheral contractions ; and an axial of return , in the opposite direction .
He next points out the 'modification of this law for stomachs of humanshape , and shows how compatible this is with the careful observations of Beaumont , none of which are essentially opposed to it .
The author indicates a probable modification correlative with the consistence of the food in some animals , and thus shows a dependence of this physical process on a previous one .
A solitary experiment is adduced to show that , as in the healthy movement , so also in vomiting , no backward or antiperistaltic contraction necessarily occurs .
A conjecture concerning regurgitation of fluid from the stomachl concludes this part of the paper .
II .
On the Physiology of Intestinal Obstructions .
In the preceding part of the paper it has been stated , that two currents probably obtain in the liquid contents of the stomach .
Many of the conditions of the intestinal tube approximate to those of the stomach ; and if disease or experiment add to these occlusion and distension , the analogy of the two organs is rendered tolerably complete , and the results will hence probably be referrible to the same general principle .
The most remarkable and constant symptom of this state of obstruction is the occurrence of fsecal vomiting .
The author briefly states the theory of an antiperistalsis by which this phenomenon is ordinarily explained : and from an inquiry into its experimental basis he deduces this general result , that an antiperistaltic movement has never yet been observed in any part of the alimentary canal .
He regards the irregular actions seen on laying open the bellies of healthy animals recently killed , as not definedly peristaltic or the reverse , but as dependent on the irritation produced by the admitted air .
So also , in the case of the occluded intestine , an inverted movement likewise fails to be recognized .
In general , the vermicular actions are more energetic , and more peristaltic , than in the healthy bowel .
He next adduces the following arguments:1 .
The antiperistalsis is usually attributed to irritation ; but irritation is present in almost every disease of the tube , while faecal vomiting is limited to cases of obstruction .
This renders it pro , bable that the latter is the cause , and that the process of causation is , like the cause , physical .
2 .
The starting-point of the supposed inverted movement is the fullest part of the bowel , while the place towards which it has set is the emptiest .
This condition is inconsistent with the supposition of an antiperistalsis , yet perfectly consistent with a forward move .
meant , and analogous to the obstructions of other tubes conveying fluids .
3 .
Intus-susception is often the cause of obstruction .
But , both from experiment and argument , it appears probable , that an antiperistalsis would at once remove this condition , and would there. .
fore be incompatible with it .
4 .
The supposed inverted movement is continuous , while the vomiting is occasional .
Hence a theory which showed the essential independency of the return of faecal matters to the stomach , and their ejection thence , would be , so far , preferable .
5 .
Experiment and observation agree in showing that the ordinary peristalsis obtains immediately below the strangulation .
And it is difficult to imagine how or why the same irritation should produce two opposite movements in reversed directions .
6 .
The general and comparative date of accession of the vomiting is scarcely compatible with the antiperistaltic theory .
The author next adduces experiments in which the intestine of animals was artificially occluded by a ligature .
In exceptional cases , the ligature sloughed into the canal , and the obstruction was thus destroyed .
In all others , the tube was distended above the stricture to a variable extent .
Below the stricture , the intestine was usually empty and contracted for an inch or two .
The contents of the tube varied both in quality and quantity ; uniform fluidity being associated with a large quantity of contents , while their smaller amount was often attended with differences of consistence .
The date at which the vomiting acceded varied considerably .
In one or two instances this symptom did not occur at all .
These differences appeared mainly dependent on .
The amount of fluid ingesta , 2 .
The distance of the stricture from the stomach .
The date of death seemed to vary chiefly with the degree of distension .
He therefore deduces the theory , -That , in an obstructed intestine , a movement of the ordinary ( and probably peristaltic ) character propels the contents onwards to the seat of occlusion ; that a continuance of the process distends , first this part of the tube , and next , those portions above it ; that , if the contents are fluid , the ordinary peristalsis tends to develope an axial and reversed current , which returns matter from a lower to a higher point of the intestine ; -often from the obstruction to the stomach , whence they are ejected by vomiting .
That in some cases , however , the action is probably much less perfect than this ; the consistence of the contents preventing the perfection of these currents throughout the whole course of the tube .
But still a mixture results , although a less intimate one .
The author next glances at the mode in which obstruction appears to affect peristalsis , and the nature of the distending fluid .
He compares the obstructed intestine to the healthy stomach , to the obstructed artery and duct ; referring its peculiar appearances to the dilatable yet muscular structure of its coats .
In conclusion , he indicates the possible result of this theory on practical medicine .

