VI .
" On the Structure of the Optic Lobes of the Cuttle-Fish .
" By J. LOCKHIART CLARKE , F.I.S8 .
Received September 26 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) The brain of the Cuttle-fish consists of several ganglia closely aggregated around the upper part of the oesophagus .
The foremost or pharyngeal ganglion , which is much the smallest , is bilobed and somewhat quadrangular .
The next is a large bilobed ganglion which forms the roof of the canal for the oesophagus .
Beneath the oesophagus is another large and broad mass , which is connected on each side with the supra-cesopbageal masses by bands that complete the oesophageal ring .
From each side of the cephalic masses springs a thick optic peduncle which ends in the optic lobe .
Each optic lobe is larger than all the other cerebral masses taken together , and has a striking resemblance in shape to the human kidney .
It is completely enveloped in a thick layer of optic nerves disposed in flattened bands which issue from all parts of its substance and proceed to the back of the eye in a fan-like expansion , the upper and lower bands crossing each other in their course .
The substance of each lobe consists of two distinct portions , which differ from each other entirely in appearance .
The outer portion resembles a very thin rind or shell , is extremely delicate , and very easily torn from the central substance which it encloses .
It consists of three concentric layers-an external dark layer , an internal dark layer , and a middle pale and broader layer containing thin and concentric bands of fibres .
The first or outer layer consists of a nultitude of nuclei and a fw small nucleated cells , with which filaments of the optic nerves-are connected .
The second or middle layer is composed entirely of fine nerve-fibres which form two sets-one vertical , and the other horizontal .
The vertical fibres issue at the under surface of the first layer from the network which its nuclei form with the fibres of the optic nerves .
Some are continuous with the horizontal fibres , but the majority continue downward across them to the third or inner layer .
At the junction of these two layers is a row of nucleated cells which send thin processes in different directions , and with which some of the nerve-fibres are connected .
The third or inner layer is composed entirely of closely-aggregated nuclei , which are joined together in a network by the fibres which issue from the unlder surface of the middle layer .
The cortical substance , consisting of these three layers , forms only a very small portion of the optic lobe .
Out of the nulecar network of the inner layer fine nerve-fibres descend into the body of the lobe which it encloses .
At first these fibres are vertical , parallel , and arranged in uniform series , with scattered nuclei between the m ; but as they descend to the centre of the lobe , they diverge more and more , and cross each other to form a plexus , first with oval and then with broader meshes , in which the nuclei and nucleated cells are collected into groups of corresponding shape and size .
From the plexus at the inner side of the lobe bundles converge from all parts to form the lower half of the peduncle , the upper part of which consists of masses of small nuiclei , and gives attachment , by a short pedicle , to a small tubercle .
This tubercle consists of closely-aggregated nuclei connected by fibres which converge to its neck and escape into the peduncle of the optic lobe .
After concluding his description of the optic lobes , the author gives a short account of the structure and connexions of the remaining cerebral ganglia of the Cuttle-fish , with the view of determining their homologies .
From the nature of the parts which it supplies , the foremost or pharyngeal ganglion weould seem to combine the function of the centres which give origin to the trigeminal , the olfctory , and the gustatory nerves in the vertebrata .
The second bi !
obeed ganglion appears to correspond partly to the cerebral lobes and partly to the cerebellum of fshes .
The posterior portion of the submcsophageal mass is the analogue of the medulla oblongata ; while the anterior portion may be regarded as the spinal cord concentrated below the csophagus and in the neighbourhood of the feet , which derive all their nerves from that source .

