128 Prof. H. Lamb .
On Propagation of [ June 11 , each end with a disc of quartz , and through which water was kept circulating to absorb heat rays .
The slide on which the hanging-drop cover slip was placed was made of quartz to avoid interception of the ultra-violet rays .
The hanging drop thus mounted was then placed on this water-circulating apparatus and the light from the arc was projected through from below upwards , so as to pass through the water and the quartz slide on to the hanging drop .
We have been unable to find that any of the radiations contained in the spectrum are penetrative to organic substances such as agar , or dead animal or vegetable tissue .
Neither can they penetrate living tissues , but we are continuing experiments in this direction to more exactly determine their action .
The conclusion to be drawn , therefore , is that the bactericidal action of light is almost entirely due to the action of those radiations in the ultra-violet region of the .spectrum which are included between the wave-lengths 3287 and 2265 .
It is , therefore , necessary that any source of light used as a bactericidal agent should be rich in these rays .
" On the Propagation of Tremors over the Surface of an Elastic Solid .
" By Horace Lamb , F.R.S. Received June 11 , \#151 ; Bead June 11 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) The paper treats of the propagation of vibrations over the surface of a " semi-infinite " isotropic elastic solid , i.e. , a solid bounded only by a plane .
For purposes of description , this plane may be conceived as horizontal and the solid as lying below it , although gravity is not specially taken into account .
The vibrations are supposed due to an arbitrary application of force at a point .
In the problem most fully discussed this force consists of an impulse applied normally to the surface ; but some other cases , including that of an internal source of disturbance , are also ( more briefly ) considered .
Owing to the complexity of the problem , attention has been concentrated for the present on the vibrations as they manifest themselves at the free surface ; the modifications which the latter introduces into the character of the waves propagated into the interior have accordingly not been examined minutely .
The investigation may perhaps claim some interest on theoretical grounds , and also in relation to the phenomena of earthquakes .
Writers on seismology have naturally endeavoured , from time to time , to interpret the phenomena , at all events in their broader features , by the light of elastic theory .
Most of these attempts have been based 1903 .
] Tremors over the Surface of an Elastic Solid .
on the general laws of wave-propagation in an unlimited medium , as developed by Green and Stokes ; but Lord Kayleigh 's discovery* of a special type of surface-waves has made it evident that the influence of the free surface in modifying the character of the vibrations is more definite , and more serious , than had been suspected .
The present memoir seeks to take a further step in the adaptation of the theory to the actual conditions , by investigating cases of forced waves , and by abandoning ( ultimately ) the restriction to simple-harmonic vibrations .
Although the circumstances of actual earthquakes must differ greatly from the highly idealised state of things which we are obliged to assume as a basis of calculation , it is hoped that the solution of the problems here considered may not be altogether irrelevant .
It is found that the surface disturbance produced by a single impulse of short duration may be analysed roughly into two parts , which we may distinguish as the " minor tremor " and the " main shock , " respectively .
The minor tremor sets in at any place , with some abruptness , after an interval equal to the time which a wave of longitudinal displacement ( in an unlimited medium ) would take to traverse the distance from the source .
Except for certain marked features at the inception , and again ( to a lesser extent ) at an epoch corresponding to that of direct arrival of transversal waves , it may be described , in general terms , as consisting of a long undulation leading up to the main shock , and dying out gradually after this has passed .
Its time-scale is more and more protracted , and its amplitude more and more diminished , the greater the distance from the source .
The main shock , on the other hand , is propagated as a solitary wave ( with one maximum and one minimum , in both the horizontal and vertical displacements ) ; its time-scale is constant , and its amplitude diminishes only in accordance with the usual law of annular divergence , so that its total energy , unlike that of the minor tremor , is maintained undiminished .
Its velocity is that of free Rayleigh waves , and is accordingly somewhat less than that of waves of transversal displacement in an unlimited medium . !
The paper includes a number of subsidiary results .
The various problems are attacked , in the first instance , in their two-dimensional forms .
The interpretation of the analytical results is then com* * Lond. Math. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 17 , p. 4 ( 1885 ) ; * Scientific Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 441 .
t Compare the concluding passage of Lord Rayleigh 's paper : " It is not improbable that the surface-wares here investigated play an important part in earthquakes and in the collision of elastic solids .
Diverging in two dimensions only , they must acquire at a great distance from the source a continually increasing preponderance .
" The calculations show that the preponderance is much greater than would be inferred from a mere comparison of the ordinary laws of two-dimensional and three-dimensional divergence .
130 Profs .
W. B. Bottomley and H. Jackson .
[ June 11 , paratively easy ; and it is found that a good deal of the work can be utilised afterwards in the transition to the three-dimensional cases .
Again , the investigation of a simple-harmonic source of disturbance is a natural preliminary to that of a source varying according to an arbitrary law .
Incidentally , new solutions are given of the well-known problems where a periodic force acts transversally to a line , or at a point , in an unlimited solid .
These serve , to some extent , as tests of the analytical method , which presents some features of intricacy .
" Some Preliminary Observations on the Assimilation of Carbon Monoxide by Green Plants .
" By W. B. Bottomley , Professor of Botany , King 's College , London , and Herbert Jackson , Assistant Professor of Chemistry , King 's College , London .
Communicated by Professor J. Eeynolds Green , Sc.l ) .
, F.R.S. Received June 11 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1903 .
During an investigation by one of us some years ago on " Carbon Monoxide in some of its Physiological Effects , " a few experiments were made on plants , and it was noticed that a hyacinth , which had commenced growth and was showing a few small leaves , continued to grow for some weeks when placed in a bell jar in which the air had been replaced by a mixture of 80 per cent , of carbon monoxide and 20 per cent , of oxygen .
As this was contrary to the usually accepted ideas as to growth of green plants in carbon monoxide , a number of experiments were recently commenced with a view to determining how far carbon monoxide could replace carbon dioxide as a source of carbon supply for green plants .
Although the hyacinth grew in carbon monoxide the experiment was not considered conclusive , because of the large stores of carbohydrates in the bulb .
Young plants of Tropceolum majus , grown in sterilised sand and supplied with a nutritive solution free from all traces of carbonates , were therefore used .
It was found that Tropceolum plants would not grow in air in which the carbon dioxide had been replaced by an equal quantity of carbon monoxide .
When , however , the relative solubilities of the two oxides of carbon in water were taken into account , and the amount of carbon monoxide was increased proportionately\#151 ; about twenty times as much carbon monoxide as carbon dioxide\#151 ; the plants grew well , being healthy and normal .
Experiments were also made with varying proportions of carbon monoxide in air free from all traces of carbon dioxide .
The plants grew freely and well in proportions varying from 1 to 70 per cent , of carbon monoxide , when care was taken that as the higher percentages of carbon monoxide

