883 1888 .
] A new Form of Eudiometer .
united by suture to the coracoid .
The inter-clavicle had the slender T-shaped form of the bone in Ichthyosaurus .
Procolophon has teeth on the vomera and pterygoid bones , and the structure of the palate and the post-orbital region show that the Procolophonia forms a distinct division of the Anomodontia .
Observations are made on the relations of the European and South African Anomodonts , and on the relation of the Anomodontia to the Pelyco-sauria and to Cotylosauria .
Comparison is made with Placodus , which genus has two exoccipital condyles , comparable to those of mammals , and appears to have lost the basi-occipital condyle .
Comparisons are made with other extinct reptilia to show the relation of the Anomodonts to the Saurischia , and other reptilian types .
Observations are offered on the theory of the Anomodont skull , and on the effect of the articulation of the lower jaw with the squamosal in causing a diminished growth of the malleus and quadrate , converting them into the malleus and tympanic .
The larger groups included in the Anomodont alliance are regarded as the Pareiasauria and Procolophonia ; Dicynodontia , Crennetotheria , and Pelycosauria ; the Theriodontia , Cotylosauria , and Placodontia are regarded as coming under the same sub-class , which at one end of the series exhibits characters which link reptiles with amphibians , and at the other end of the series link reptiles with mammals .
XII .
" A new Form of Eudiometer .
" By William Marcet , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 20 , 1888 .
[ PijAte 14 .
] The quantitative determination of oxygen , simple as it appears at first sight , is found in practice beset with many difficulties .
Liebig 's method with pyrogallic acid and potassium hydrate , though considered as yielding correct results , takes too much time , and is unsatisfactory in some respects , so that the eudioipeter has become of general use for the estimation of oxygen .
I shall not attempt to describe the various forms of eudiometer , but it may be assumed that Regnault , so well known for the care he bestowed on his investigations , had adopted a very correct kind of eudiometer in the researches he undertook with Reiset on the chemical phenomena of respiration.* Other eudiometers have been made since then , such as the ingenious instrument of Dr. Frankland for gas analysis , which has proved most serviceable .
" I claim for the present form of eudiometer that it is correct and reliable in its working , simple in construction , and easy of manipulation .
The main objects of an eudiometer must be the easy introduction of the air to be analysed , the ready mixture of that air with a known volume of pure hydrogen gas , and the correct reading * ' Annals de Chimie et de Physique/ 3rd Series , vol. 26 , 1849 .
Dr. W. Marcet .
[ June 21 , of the volume after explosion .
It will be seen that these conditions are entirely fulfilled in the present instrument ; and it has , moreover , the advantage of being available in conjunction with Pettenkofer 's method for the determination of carbonic acid in atmospheric air .
The eudiometer as figured in the accompanying Plate has the form of a " J"-piece , the vertical limb of which is a straight tube about 60 cm .
in length and 12 cm .
in diameter ; it is divided into 50 or 60 c.c. and tenths of c.c. , like a common burette .
The upper end of this tube is closed air-tight with a steel cap , from which lateral tubes project right and left ; these tubes are bent \/ *8haped , or rather in the form of a lyre .
At the junction of the lateral tubes with the cap , there is a three-way stop-cock allowing of the passage of air or gas in four different directions , viz. , first through the tubes cut off from the body of the eudiometer ; secondly , into the eudiometer , which is done by raising it in the mercury trough ; thirdly , out of the eudiometer , on the side opposite that from which it was introduced , which is effected by depressing the tube in the mercury ; fourthly , through the tubes and eudiometer simultaneously .
The eudiometer is held tightly by two claws projecting at different heights from a vertical iron rod connected with a rack and pinion movement .
The iron rod , together with the eudiometer , is immersed in mercury contained in a straight cylindrical glass vessel .
The hydrogen used for the explosion is prepared for that special object from zinc and sulphuric acid in the ordinary way , and washed through an alkaline solution , rather than obtained condensed in iron bottles from the manufacturers , and it is collected in a bell-jar suspended over water .
The bell-jar I use holds 11 litres of gas ; it is balanced by a counterpoise , and its weight , as it moves up and down in water , is regulated by another counterpoise hanging from a cycloid , so that the gas in the holder is always under atmospheric pressure ; an oil-gauge fixed to the holder shows at any time the pressure in the bell-jar .
Should the gas fail to be absolutely under atmospheric pressure , the equality of pressures may be ensured by the use of the adjusting instrument I have described in a former communication .
It consists of a clamp fixed to the rim of the tank , and made to grasp at will the cord holding the counterpoise ; a screw in connexion with the clamp enables the cord , and consequently the bell-jar , to be drawn up or down .
For the .
actual requirements of the analysis , a receiver for the hydrogen holding only one litre of gas would suffice , but it is better to have a larger gas-holder in which to store up the hydrogen for future determinations .
Moreover , the cycloid arrangement for regulating the weight of the bell-jar , though very convenient , may be dispensed with , as the gas in the receiver can be brought approximately under atmospheric pressure 1888 .
] A new Form of Eudiometer .
385 by means of weights , while the adjusting screw will enable its being accurately placed under atmospheric pressure .
The analysis is made as follows :\#151 ; We suppose that air for analysis has been shaken with barium hydrate in a glass jar of a capacity of about 10 litres , and made according to the form adopted by Dr. Angus Smith* for the determination of carbonic acid in air by Pettenkofer 's method .
This jar is closed by a tight-fitting india-rubber cap , which I cover with several coats of copal varnish ; from this cap two short india-rubber tubes project , each of these tubes being clamped by a pinch-cock .
After the agitation is oyer , and when all the carbonic acid is taken up by the alkaline solution , the fluid is poured out from the jar into a glass-stoppered bottle holding about 100 c.c. This can be done easily without letting any air into the jar , as the india-rubber cap will collapse somewhat while the fluid is allowed to run out through one of the india-rubber tubes in the cap , a very small quantity of fluid only being left in the jar .
The india-rubber tube is again clamped , and the bottle holding the barium hydrate is sealed with paraffine and left undisturbed for the precipitation of the carbonate and subsequent analysis .
The glass jar full of air free from carbonic acid , and absolutely saturated with moisture , is placed under a funnel supported on a filter stand , and the funnel is connected with one of the india-rubber tubes projecting from the cap , while the other tube has a short piece of glass tubing inserted into it , to which a longer india-rubber tube is fixed .
Everything is now ready for the determination of the oxygen of the air contained in the glass jar .
After turning the stop-cock in the cap of the eudiometer , so as to allow the hydrogen gas to wash out the steel tubes and top of the eudiometer , the latter is lowered in the cylinder until the mercury is in contact with the cap , and therefore very near to the stop-cock .
The eudiometer is next connected by narrow india-rubber tubing with the hydrogen receiver on which a weight has been placed , and on opening the receiver hydrogen rushes out , washing thoroughly the passage through which it will have to reach the eudiometer , and driving out the very small quantity of air contained in the steel cap between the mercury and the stop-cock .
1 found it convenient to stop the end of the \/ -shaped tube letting out the gas with short india-rubber tubing and a pinch-cock .
When a few hundred cubic centimetres of gas have gone through , the three-way tap is turned by one-quarter of a turn , so as to place the tube in communication with the hydrogen ; it is now easy to rinse the eudiometer with that gas , by raising the eudiometer , and then giving the three-way cock half a turn , so as to bring the instrument in communi-* ' Air and Kain , ' 1872 .
386 Dr. W. Marcet .
[ June 21 , eation with the external air ; the eudiometer is then rapidly depressed and closed .
In this position the tube from the hydrogen can be rinsed again , independently of the eudiometer , so that the washing may be Considered as complete and thorough .
The eudiometer being brought into connexion with the hydrogen is again raised , and 18 c.c. of hydrogen gas are taken in under atmospheric pressure .
The hydrogen kept over water is saturated , and a thermometer with its bulb in the bell-jar gives the temperature of the gas , which is very nearly that of the laboratory ; so that by the time the gas is ready to be measured in the eudiometer it shows no tendency either to contract or dilate .
The eudiometer now contains the volume of hydrogen required for the analysis , and the stop-cock is turned shutting off the gas from the holder , and opening the \f-shaped tubes through and through in readiness for washing out with the air to be analysed .
The air from the large glass jar is introduced into the eudiometer in the following way .
Having filled the .
funnel referred to above with water , the latter is let into the jar by opening slightly the pinch-cock closing the funnel ; at the same time the glass jar having been connected with the \/ -shaped tube of the eudiometer by india-rubber tubing , is opened towards the instrument , when the air displaced by the water added rinses out the india-rubber and steel tubings .
There is plenty of air in the jar , so that no necessity occurs to be saving ; when the tubes are rinsed the eudiometer is raised in the mercury up to about 45 c.c. , carrying a column of mercury with it ; then the two-way stop-cock is very carefully turned so as to admit the air to be analysed , which is aspired by the mercury as it subsides .
Thus some 27 c.c. of air are introduced .
The aspiration must be fairly rapid , and the fall of mercury in the tube should be stopped by turning the stop-cock before the mercury has quite reached its level in the trough , otherwise there is a risk of a recoil of the mercury , and a " pumping " which it is important to avoid .
The mixed gases are left undisturbed for two or three minutes , and their volume is read off under atmospheric pressure , the eudiometer being next moved up and down in the mercury by a few centimetres , so as to effect the perfect mixture of the gases .
The instrument is now slightly raised , carrying with it a short column of mercury , and the gases are ignited by the electric spark under reduced atmospheric pressure .
This mode of proceeding , recommended by McLeod , * weakens considerably the violence of the explosion , and ensures perfect safety .
Immediately after the explosion the gas in the eudiometer is brought approximately under atmospheric pressure .
# McLeod , " On a new Form of Apparatus for Gas Analysis , " ' Chem. Soc. Joum .
, ' 1869 .
Mocrcet- .
Proc. Roy .
Soo-VoL.44-.PL.14- .
Front ELev EntUELevV ' References BelL foroontavnxng Hydrogens .
^ISitfibLo riveter* ' Oyhsiderj ivJL of Mercury .
^Venxoru for rcuLevrig St \ I Eujajuomjeter .
V S ; Wesrb,3tfewmsuri \amp ; .Q ?
11th .
1888 .
] A new Form of Eudiometer .
A slow contraction now takes place as the heat produced by the explosion is radiated from the instrument ; it is advisable to wait about twenty minutes , until the contraction is complete , and the volume of the gas is read off under atmospheric pressure .
The instrument should be sheltered from any draught , or from the direct radiation of a fire , and indeed be kept from any change of temperature , and with that object I find it advisable to shelter it with a cardboard tubular shield sliding up and down the mercury trough .
If air taken directly from the atmosphere is to be analysed , in order to ensure its being saturated it will be advisable to pass it through a tube full of wet horse-hair , and obtain it directly from the tube into the eudiometer .
In the above account of the manipulation required , the hydrogen is introduced before the air into the eudiometer .
I have tried to let in the air first , but this plan was not successful apparently because the mixture of air and hydrogen was incomplete before the explosion .
The hydrogen being collected first in the eudiometer will rise from its comparative lightness as the air is drawn in and mix with it perfectly , while the stream is sufficiently rapid to prevent any of the mixture from diffusing out of the tube .
It should be borne in mind that after a number of analyses the water resulting from the explosions accumulates on the surface of the mercury in the eudiometer , and the mercury meniscus is no longer clearly seen .
This can be easily avoided by drying the tube with filtering paper after a certain number of analyses .
The following are a few determinations of oxygen in atmospheric air made with the form of eudiometer described above .
They are not selected , but given in succession in the order in which they were made .
And I must here beg to record the valuable aid of my assistant , Mr. Charles Townsend , F.C.S. , in the present inquiry .
Oxygen per cent , in Atmospheric Air .
First Series .
21-01 20-98 21 -00 20 -97 20 -97 Mean . .
20 *99 Greatest difference , 0 " 2 per cent. Second Series.* 20 -94 20 -93 20 -96 20 -95 20 -93 20 -95 20 -96 Mean . .
20 " 946 Greatest difference , 0 " 14 per cent. * One analysis omitted : obviously too high from insufficient rinsing .

