Observations on Albumen , and some other Animal Fluids ; with Remarks on their Analysis by electro-chemical Decomposition .
By Mr. William Brand , F.R.S. Communicated by the Society for the Improvement of Animal Chemistry .
Read June 15 , 1809 , [ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 373 .
] Mr. Brande 's paper consists of two parts ; first , Observations on mucus and on the composition of liquid albumen ; and secondly , On the composition of some animal fluids containing albumen .
The mucus contained in saliva in expectorated fluids , and in that from the oyster , were first examined ; but since nitrate of silver and acetate of lead , which have been supposed to detect mucus , were found to act principally on the salts contained in them , it became necessary to employ other means for the removal of the salts ; and the voltaic apparatus was applied for the purpose of extracting the alkalies at one pole , and the acids at the opposite .
But there occurred a phenomenon that was wholly unexpected ; as a considerable coagulation of albumen took place at the negative pole , which Mr. Brand ( at the suggestion of Mr. Davy ) is inclined to ascribe to the separation of alkali with which it was combined , and to which its solubility was owing .
It is observed , in confirmation , that when an egg is boiled for some time in water , the liquid becomes alkaline to tests , and still deposits , by electrization , a small quantity of albumen , which the alkali retains in solution .
The coagulation of albumen by acids is also ascribed to their superior affinity for the alkali .
For discovering the nature of the saline ingredients , the water in which some white of egg had been boiled and macerated , was electrified by a powerful battery , through the medium of a cup of water on each side .
After the process had continued for one hour , the fluids were examined ; that on the negative side contained a quantity of soda nearly pure , and that on the positive side a small quantity of albumen , with a little muriatic acid , but not enough to saturate the alkali .
The same means of analytic investigation being applied to other fluids , detected larger quantities of albumen than were discoverable by heat alone ; as in saliva , in the mucus from the oyster , the mucus from the trachea , in bile , in milk , and in the liquor of Amnios : and hence the author is led to doubt whether mucus may not be a compound of albumen , either with muriate of soda or with excess of soda .

