[ 297 ] IX .
On the Structure and Development of the Teeth of Ophidia .
By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. Communicated by John Tomes , Received October 5 , \#151 ; Read December 10 , 1874 .
It has been usual to regard the dentine as the most , and the enamel as the least constant of the dental tissues , the cementum in this respect occupying an intermediate position *\#151 ; this relation being held to have been established as a matter of observation , no less than as a legitimate inference from the process of development .
It has , however , been shown by Kolliker and Waldeyer in the case of mammal 's , and by Santi Sirena and myself in the case of Batrachia and Sauria ( the present paper extending these observations to the Ophidia ) that the enamel-organ is absolutely the first structure which can be recognized in the vicinity of a future tooth , and that the dentine-organ or " papilla " can only be recognized at a later stage .
This very early appearance of an enamel-organ would seem to point towards the enamel being both more important and more widely distributed than would be indicated by the statement that " the enamel is the least constant of the dental tissues " f. I was not therefore much surprised to find that the teeth of all the Gphidia which I have examined , amounting to some ten genera , are coated with a thin layer of enamel .
In point of fact the thin layer of transparent tissue upon the outside of the teeth of Ophidia described by Professor Owen and others as cementum , is not cementum , but is enamel ; and this conclusion I can support by evideuce which appears to me indisputable .
And not only must the generalization that " dentine and cement are present in the teeth of all reptiles " be abandoned , but , so far as my own observations go , the occurrence of cementum in the class of reptiles is comparatively rare , and it is in association with exceptional conditions of attachment when it occurs at all .
I believe that it would be a correct statement , as regards recent reptiles at all events , to say that the teeth of reptiles consist of dentine , to which is very generally superadded * Prof. Owen ( Odontography , p. 22 ) says , " The enamel is the least constant of the dental tissues ; it is more frequently absent than present in the teeth of fishes ; it is wanting in the entire order of Ophidia among existing reptiles ; and it forms no part of the teeth of Edentata and many Cetacea among Mammals .
" Of the cement he says ( p. 183 ) , " Dentine and cement are present in the teeth of all reptiles , " this statement being also endorsed by Giebel ( Odontographie , p. xvii ) .
t In Professor Huxley 's paper ( Microsc .
Journ. 1853 ) I find the following passage in a footnote:\#151 ; " Why should not it ( i. e. the dense exterior layer upon the teeth of the skate and the mackerel ) be called enamel ?
It has at least as much claim to this title as that of the frog .
" - Since finding that there is enamel upon Ophidian teeth , I have again examined the teeth of frogs ( the bullfrog , Hylcii common frog ) , and believe that there is a very thin enamel layer upon all of them .
an investment of enamel , partial or complete , but that cementum is only present in a few instances .
The only reptilian teeth which are really coated with cementum , so far as I am aware , are those which are implanted in more or less complete sockets or in a groove .
Thus the teeth of the Crocodile and of the Ichthyosaurus have cementum upon their basal portions ; but whether the inference that cementum is in all cases associated with implantation in sockets will be borne out by a more extended series of observations , I cannot as yet with certainty say .
In proof of my statement that the thin outer layer upon Ophidian teeth is enamel , the following facts may be advanced :\#151 ; Its refractive index is high , so that it resembles enamel and does not resemble cementum .
It is very brittle* , so that it is often entirely lost in grinding down a thin section , and is invariably much cracked when it does remain in situ ( see Plate 48 .
fig. 1 ) .
The application of acids to the sections wholly removes it , whereas cementum is even less affected by acids than is dentine .
But what is more conclusive than all is its development ; it is formed from the elongated cells of a perfectly characteristic and unmistakable enamel-organ , to be presently described\#151 ; a fact which alone would put it beyond all doubt that enamel is present on the teeth of Ophidia , and that therefore cementum is not .
So far as the general plan of formation of individual tooth-germs goes , the teeth of Ophidia conform pretty closely with those of Mammalia or Sauria ; but whilst the essential points are adhered to , there is so much difference in matters of detail that at first sight the sections of the tooth-developing region of a lizard and of a snake are strikingly dissimilar .
And although it is no more than was to be expected from the other characters of the animal , it may be interesting to note that , in respect of the development of its teeth , the slowworm is essentially a lizard , and does not show the smallest tendency towards that arrangement of the successional tooth-germs which is so eminently characteristic of the Ophidia .
The tooth-germ of a snake consists of a dentine-organ or dentine-papilla { b in figs. 4 \amp ; 5 ) ( which presents no special characters by which it might be distinguished from that of other animals ) , an enamel-organ , and a feebly developed connective-tissue capsule .
The enamel-organ ( f in figs. 4 , 5 , \amp ; 8 ) ' embraces the dentine-papillae in its entire length , and consists almost entirely of the elongated cells which constitute the " enamel cells " or " internal epithelium of the enamel-organ .
" They are nucleated at the extremity furthest from the dentine , and closely resemble those of other animals .
In * Its brittleness did not escape the notice of Prof. Owex ( Odontography , p. 22a ) , who speaks of it as " more readily detached from the dentine where it is thickest at the base of the tooth than in other teeth ; portions of it adhering to the section are shown at fig. laa , plate 65 whilst a few pages further , speaking of poison-fangs , he says , " from its transparency it has been regarded as enamel .
There is , however , no trace of true enamel on the teeth of poisonous serpents any more than upon those of the innocuous species .
" DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH OF OPHIDIA .
young tooth-germs ( cf. fig. 4 ) the outer or reflected layer of cells may be recognized ; but their identity is soon lost , and nothing but the " enamel cells " can be distinctly made out .
They become shorter after the enamel layer has been formed ( the thin coat of enamel has of course disappeared from the specimens figured , which are all decalcified sections ; had the layer been cementum it would not have done so ) , but do not wholly disappear .
Of the capsule , such as it is , there is little to be said ; it is merely a very slight condensation of the surrounding connective tissue .
As the tooth approaches completion , there is a peculiarity in the form which its base assumes which I have not noticed in other animals\#151 ; namely , that the dentine at the widely open base of the tooth is often abruptly bent inwards , as though the base of the tooth were about to be closed by a sort of operculum of dentine ( see fig. 5 ) .
An early germ is represented in fig. 4 , measuring in its total length of an inch ; it differs from a mammalian tooth-germ by its elongated form , and by the fact that the two layers of cells which necessarily result from the manner of formation of enamel-organs , namely the outer and inner epithelia of the enamel-organ , are so closely in contact as to be indistinguishable except at the base , there being no intermediate stellate tissue ; while from the tooth-germs of Batrachia and Sauria it differs in no respect save its exceedingly elongated shape .
A still earlier stage , when the tooth-germs may be said to consist solely of a preparation for the formation of an enamel-organ in the shape of a csecal process of epithelial cells , is shown at e in fig. 3 .
But it is not in the structure nor in the development of individual tooth-germs that the Ophidia are peculiar ; it is in the relation of these to one another and in their large number .
Including the tooth which is in sit , no less than eight different stages may often be seen in a single section ; and their large number necessitates a peculiarity in their arrangement , for , remembering the small size of the tooth-bearing bones and the extreme dilatability of the snake 's mouth , it would be manifestly impossible that the successional teeth should be arranged in linear series from without inwards .
Accordingly we find the greater number of the forming teeth to be placed nearly vertically one above the other , parallel with the jaw-bone and the tooth in place , thus interfering but little with the mobility of the mucous membrane and the dilatability of the mouth ( figs. 2 \amp ; 3 ) .
The tooth.next in order of succession , however , has .
moved inwards in a curvilinear direction , so that it no longer stands above the younger teeth , but lies in a measure between the topmost developing tooth and the one already in place .
In other words , a tooth-germ as it progresses from being the youngest of the series to being the oldest , moves at first upwards , then outwards towards the teeth in use , and then again a little downwards , so that it describes a curved path .
And not only does the growing tooth-germ thus bodily migrate , but it also undergoes a change in the direction of its long axis .
Starting at the bottom of the area of tooth-development ( 1 in fig. 2 \amp ; in fig. 3 ) , its long axis is nearly perpendicular to that of the jaw ; but as it becomes larger it becomes baclined , and finally ( in the oldest teeth which have not as yet become attached to the jaw ) it is nearly horizontal , so that the tooth lies parallel to the jaw , and is seen in the preparations in transverse section ( 7 in fig. 2 ) .
A ready clue to these peculiarities of position is furnished by the dilatability of a * snake 's mouth ; it is essential that the successional tooth-germs should be disposed in the smallest possible space , while the recumbent position of the teeth which have attained to nearly their full length carries its own explanation upon the face of it .
If the oral epithelium which is immediately to the inner side of the tooth in place ( which , owing to the backward inclination of the teeth , can never be displayed in all its length in a section exactly transverse to the jaw ) be traced downwards , it will be found to dip in deeply below the surface in the form of a distinctly circumscribed band , which does not pursue a perfectly straight course , but bends once or twice as it passes in ( see e in figs. 2 \amp ; 3 ) .
This epithelial band reaches the region of the developing teeth , and there is more or less lost sight of ; that is to say , although it reappears in the interspaces of the tooth-germs ( see fig. 3 ) , and doubtless is perfectly continuous from the surface to the deepest extremity of the area of tooth-formation , it cannot be seen in any one section in its whole course , as it is pushed out of the way and overlaid by the actively growing tooth-germs .
In the interspace between each of these it can , however , always be seen distinctly ; and at the deepest or youngest end of the area it is seen in direct continuity with the enamel-organ of the youngest tooth-germ but one ( fig. 4 ) ; while its blind extremity forms all that as yet exists of the youngest tooth-germ ( see 1 in figs. 2 \amp ; 3 ) .
All the germs , with the exception only of the immediate successor to the tooth in place , are situated within a capsule or investment of connective tissue ( fig. 3 ) , forming an oblong or slightly pear-shaped area ( its smaller end being downwards ) .
This investment , common to a number of tooth-germs , is , so far as I know , peculiar to the Ophidia ; at least nothing like it is met in any of the Batrachia or Sauria which I have examined .
When the tooth has attained to a considerable size , it escapes from the apex of this investment and passes towards the tooth already in place , which is then rapidly undermined by absorption .
When the tooth has fallen , the upper , and to some extent the inner , surface of the bone is exceedingly irregular , being everywhere roughened by the depressions characteristic of absorption ( see the upper part of fig. 7 ) .
The tooth moves into position , carrying with it its capsule and all its contents .
A very rapid formation of bone takes place , to which perhaps the capsule may contribute something ; the bulk of the new bone by which the tooth is attached , however , is formed outside and beneath the capsule , which in favourable sections may be distinctly seen passing directly across the base of the dentine , from one thin free edge to the other , even after a considerable portion of new bone has been formed .
This new bone , formed altogether outside the tooth-capsule , is continued up on the outside of the dentine for a short distance ( see figs. 6 \amp ; 7 ) , and in this position has DEVELOPMENT O THE TEETH OF OPHIDIA .
apparently been mistaken for cementum ; but a study of its development proves it clearly not to be such .
Simultaneously with this active development of bone the base of the tooth-pulp , which is furnished with a layer of odontoblast cells ( fig. 5 ) , calcifies , forming an irregular sort of dentine , the tubes of which blend with the newly forming bone beneath it .
The resultant conditions can be perfectly well studied in dry sections ; for the bone of attachment differs most markedly from that of the rest of the jaw , being full of irregular spaces , and being stratified in a different direction ( fig. 8 ) .
It adheres more strongly to the tooth than to the rest of the bone , so that it is often broken away with the former , and it must be regarded as a very rude , imperfect form of osseous tissue .
It is apparently almost entirely absorbed when the tooth to which it belongs is shed , as but little trace of " bone of attachment " is to be seen after the loss of a particular tooth ; nor does a careful examination of that which serves to cement on a particular tooth reveal much evidence of the persistence of portions of an older date , although some is generally to be found by careful search .
The poison-fangs present some peculiarities in their development which I have not as yet been able to fully make out , owing to the difficulty of getting poisonous snakes in a perfectly fresh condition .
The early tooth-germs are identical with those of the simple teeth ; but at a later stage there is an appearance of a duct with definite walls within the tooth , the origin of which I have thus far failed in tracing .
Explanation of the Plate .
PLATE 48 .
Fig. 1 .
Portion of a longitudinal section of the tooth of a python with a thin , cracked layer of enamel .
Fig. 2 .
Transverse section of the lower jaw of a common snake : to the left is seen the jaw-bone , with a portion of the tooth in situ upon its upper surface ; to the right of this is the area of tooth-development .
a. Oral epithelium .
b. Dentine-organ or " papilla .
" c. Tooth already in use .
d. Formed dentine .
e. Process of oral epithelium , passing in to form the enamel-organs .
f. Inner epithelium or " enamel cells " of the enamel-organ .
0 .
Layer of odontoblast cells .
jp .
Parapet of fibrillated connective tissue bounding the area of tooth-formation on its inner side .
1 .
Youngest tooth-germ , as yet only represented by the process of epithe- lium ( e ) .
2 .
Tooth-germ which has an enamel-organ and dentine-organ .
3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 .
Older tooth-capsules .
Fig. 3 .
Four tooth-germs from a transverse section of the lower jaw of a common snake , showing their relations with the oral epithelium , and their enclosure in a species of common capsule ( lettering same as in other figures ) , xlOO .
Fig. 4 .
Early tooth-germ , in which the double layer of cells originally constituting the enamel-organ can be seen .
Common snake .
X ISO .
Fig. 5 .
Longitudinal section of a tooth-capsule of a viper .
The enamel cells are diminished in size , nnd the base of the pulp has already its odontoblast layer , so that the tooth had evidently attained its full length .
X 50 .
Fig. 6 .
Portion of tooth-germ seen in transverse section , embracing the odontoblast layer of the dentine-pulp ( o ) , a thin layer of dentine ( ) , enamel cells ( / ) , and outside these a slight fibrous capsule , X150 .
Fig. 7 .
Tooth in process of attachment to the bone .
The roughened surface of the jaw ( m ) is well seen , while the tooth is as yet attached to it only by the tissue represented at y , in which calcification is actively going on .
The appearances observed at y do not materially differ from those seen at the edge of a rapidly growing membrane-bone .
Common snake .
Fig. 8 .
Transverse section of lower jaw of a common snake , with tooth cemented on by the " bone of attachment " ( h ) .
From a section mounted dry in Canada balsam .
/ All the figures , with the exception of No. 8 , are taken from sections hardened and decalcified in chromic acid , and stained with logwood or carmine .
Torrves .
( Ophvduv ) Phil. Trans. 1875 .
Plate 4\gt ; 8 EM .
mUuuru EL Z.S. Uth. .
TV .
West l C ?
imp

