On Oxalic Acid .
By Thomas Thomson , M.D. F.R.S.Ed .
Communicated by Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read January 14 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 63 .
] Though much important information has resulted respecting the formation of this acid , from the experiments of Hermbstadt , Westrumb , Berthollet , Fourcroy , and Vauquelin , the properties of it have been rather neglected since the original dissertation of Bergman , to whom we are indebted for the first account of its properties .
Dr. Thomson has in consequence undertaken a set of experiments , with the view of ascertaining various particulars respecting it .
Since the crystals of oxalic acid effloresce and lose a part of their weight when moderately heated , he endeavours to ascertain what portion of this loss was to be ascribed to water of crystallization , by uniting a known quantity of the acid with lime , by precipitation from a known solution of it in muriatic acid .
The quantity of acid employed weighed 5813 grains ; the oxalate of lime produced , when perfectly dried , weighed 72 grains .
This oxalate being heated to redness , gave 49 5 carbonate of lime ; and by a further exposure to a violent heat , yielded 27 pure lime , which being deducted from 72 oxalate , left 45 for dry oxalic acid , or T7V of the quantity employed for saturation .
The same experiment also gives 62-5 the proportion of acid to base in the oxalate of lime to be j 375 ; 100-0 a proportion which differs from that of Bergman , because he neglected to neutralize the acid from which the lime was precipitated , and which retained a part in solution .
To obviate any chance of error in so fundamental an experiment , Dr. Thomson thought it worth while to verify that analysis by a different mode of operating .
A known quantity of acid having been precipitated by lime-water , he obtained a quantity of oxalate of lime that corresponded accurately with the foregoing estimate .
The oxalate of magnesia is very similar to that of lime , and is not sensibly dissolved by water ; nevertheless , if a solution of oxalate of ammonia be poured into a solution of sulphate of magnesia , no precipitate is formed till after concentration by heat .
Oxalate of potash readily crystallizes in flat rhomboids , which dissolve in thrice their weight of water at 60 ? .
This salt also combines with excess of acid , forming a superoxalate , long known by the name of Salt of Sorrel , very sparingly soluble in water .
The potash in this salt , as Dr. Thomson remarks , contains very nearly the double of that quantity of acid which would be necessary barely to neutralize it .
Soda also forms , with this acid , a salt that readily crystallizes , and it is said to be capable of combining with excess of acid ; but Dr. Thomson has not tried it .
The oxalate of ammonia is much less soluble than either of the preceding .
Dr. Thomson having carefully examined , by direct saturation of oxalic acid , the proportions in which the acid and base unite to form the several earthy and alkaline oxalates , gives tables of them , adapted to various practical purposes ; but having remarked that oxalate of strontian thus formed contained a larger quantity of the earth than was expected , he neutralized a known quantity of oxalic acid by ammonia , and with that compound made a precipitate from muriate of strontian .
By this method of obtaining the compound , the same quantity of acid was found to have united with only half the quantity of strontian that had been contained in the former precipitate ; a proportion which he had before observed to take place in the super .
oxalate and neutral oxalate of potash .
In the decomposition of these salts by heat , Dr. Thomson found the acid to be resolved into water , carbonic acid , carbonic oxide , carburetted hydrogen , and charcoal .
With the view of determining with precision the composition of oxalic acid , Dr. Thomson made choice of the oxalate of lime , of which 100 grains by distillation yielded 60 cubic inches of gas , consisting of carbonic acid gas and inflammable gas , in the proportion of 2 of the former to 7 of the latter .
The inflammable gas also consisted of 2 parts , seven tenths being carbonic oxide , and three tenths carburetted hydrogen .
Hence if 160 grains of oxalate of lime , which contain 100 oxalic acid , be distilled , the products are , 59 53 carbonic acid , 24*28 inflammable air , 1151 water , 4 68 charcoal : and as the constituents of these products are known , the ultimate elements are , 64 69 oxygen , 31 78 carbon , 3*53 hydrogen ; which Dr. Thomson considers to be , 64 oxygen , 32 carbon , and 4 hydrogen .
In the analysis given of this acid by Fourcroy , as performed by Vauquelin and himself , the quantity of carbonic acid appears much too small ; and Dr. Thomson is convinced their method must be erroneous , as the quantity of carbonic acid alone that is formed during distillation contains considerably more carbon than they assign to oxalic acid .
From the weights of the elements obtained from oxalic acid by chemical analysis , Dr. Thomson turns to views of a different nature , and hopes to arrive at a more intimate and accurate knowledge of the difference between this acid and other vegetable products consisting of the same ingredients , by attending to certain numerical relations of their elements to each other : and this relation is such , that if hydrogen be expressed by 1 , the number which corresponds to carbon is 4'5 , and oxygen 6 .
Azote , expressed according to the same scale , will be 5 .
The law observable in their union is this , that in all their compounds the proportions of these constituents may be always expressed by these numbers , or by small multiples of them ; for instance , Oxyg .
Hydr .
Carb , Azote .
Water consists of. .
, .
61 Carbonic oxide ... ... 6 45 Carbonic acid ... ... . .
2 x6 4.5 Carburetted hydrogen. .
2x1 45 Olefiant gas ... ... . .
1 45 Nitrous oxide ... ... .
6 2x5 Nitrous gas ... ... . .
65 Nitrous acid ... ... . .
26 25 From the knowledge of this law , which was first observed by Mr. Dalton , it is difficult ( says Dr. Thomson ) to avoid concluding , with him , that the numbers above given represent the relative weights of a single atom of each of these elements ; that they first unite atom to atom ; but that they may also combine in the proportion of two or more particles of one sort with one of another .
Dr. Thomson observes , that the same law holds also with respect to salts , and that numbers may be affixed to each of the acids and to each of the bases ; which numbers , or their multiples , will represent them in all the combinations into which these bodies enter .
In this scale the particle of sulphuric acid is represented by 33 , muriatic acid by 18 , nitric acid by 17 , carbonic acid by 17'5 , barytes 67 , lime 23 , soda 24 , ammonia 6 .
From these data , and from the proportion in which oxalic acid has been found above to combine with several bases , Dr. Thomson assigns the number 39 5 , which represents the particle of oxalic acid .
Reverting next to the proportion of its elements , and to the weights of their respective atoms , he finds the integrant particle of oxalic acid to consist of 4 atoms of oxygen , 3 of carbon , and 2 of hydrogen ; the aggregate weights of which amount to the same number , 39'5 , at which he had arrived by a different mode of estimation .
According to these proportions , 100 parts of oxalic acid will consist of its three elements , in the proportion of 61 , 34 and 5 , instead of 64 , 32 and 4 ; numbers not exactly corresponding , but , in the estimation of Dr. Thomson , approaching sufficiently near to heighten the probability of the reasoning employed .
We may next conceive 3 particles of oxalic acid thus constituted to be decomposed at once , and to yield 4 particles of carbonic acid , 2 of carburetted hydrogen , and 2 of carbonic oxide , 3 of water , and 1 particle of charcoal ; and might thence expect 100 parts of acid to yield , Carbonic acid ... .
55 70 , instead of 59 53 , actually obtained .
Inflammable gas. .
28-64 , 24-28 , Water. .
11-81 , 1151 , Charcoal ... . .
3-80 , -4-68 , It is impossible , Dr. Thomson observes , to expect exact correspondence till the numbers representing the weights of the elementary atoms be ascertained with accuracy , instead of the round numbers which he has assumed , for the purpose of showing an approximation of the theoretic inferences to the results obtained by experiment .
In an analysis of sugar , which follows , by a series of experiments and of hypothetical reasoning , different from the experiments and reasoning of Lavoisier , Dr. Thomson nevertheless agrees with him , to great accuracy , in his results : and assuming 64 oxygen , 8 hydrogen , and 24 carbon , as the true elements , if these numbers be respectively divided by the weights of their single particles , the number of atoms of each which combine to form sugar are to each other as 5 , 3 , and 4 respectively .

