OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
VOL. LXXXVIII.---A .
5 ' CONTENTS .
Page Samuel Hawksley Burbury ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... i Frederick John Jervis-Smith ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
iv John Brown ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
vi Edward Divers ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
viii Henry Taylor Bovey ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... x Bight Hon. Sir John Charles Dalrymple-Hay , Bart. , G.C.B. xii Osborne Reynolds ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xv i SAMUEL HAWKSLEY BURBURY , 1831\#151 ; 1911 .
Mr. Burbury was born at Kenilworth in May , 1831 , and was educated at Shrewsbury School , where he gained the highest prizes for his studies .
He subsequently entered at St. John 's College , Cambridge , where he graduated in 1854 as fifteenth Wrangler and second Classic , having previously gained the Craven Scholarship ( for Classics ) as well as the Porson Prize .
About five years later he was called to the Bar , and it was not till about twenty years later that he commenced to specialise in mathematical science .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1890 .
His first substantial contribution , written in collaboration with the late Rev. H. W. Watson , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , was a treatise , published in 1899 , on * An Application of Generalised Co-ordinates to the Dynamics of a Material System/ The alliance with Watson was a successful one , for we find the same two writers bringing out ' The Mathematical Theory of Electricity and Magnetism/ in 1883-5 , a book intended to give greater definiteness and precision to the deductive portions of the subject than was to be found in Clerk Maxwell 's two volumes .
The first edition of Dr. Watson 's ' Kinetic Theory of Gases ' was published at the end of 1876 , just three years before the first joint work with Burbury .
The subject always appears to have had a fascination for Burbury .
About the year 1890 mathematical physicists were turning their attention to the statistical molecular distribution commonly referred to as Maxwell 's Law , and we find Burbury taking an active part in a controversy in which Boltzmann , Lord Kelvin , Lord Rayleigh , and several other physicists were involved .
This controversy , briefly speaking , turned on the two questions , first , whether the Boltzmann-Maxwell distribution is always a possible one , and secondly , whether it can be proved to be the only possible one .
It may perhaps be correct to say that the general result of these investigations has been to leave Maxwell 's Law somewhat in a similar position to Euclid 's eleventh axiom , a possible hypothesis , but not necessarily a unique one .
Among Burbury 's contributions at that time we notice papers\#151 ; " Some Problems in the Kinetic Theory of Gases " ( ' Phil. Mag./ Oct. , 1890 ) , and " The Collision of Elastic Bodies " ( ' Phil. Trans./ 1891)\#151 ; in the latter of which he criticises the test *cases previously proposed by Lord Kelvin and Burnside , and proves that the conventional proofs of Maxwell 's Law and Boltzmann 's Minimum Theorem can be extended to doublets , lop-sided spheres , and systems of colliding rigid bodies generally .
In a further paper ( 'Phil .
Mag./ Jan. , 1894 ) , Burbury extended the proof to groups of molecules under each other 's influence , while subsequently ( 'Phil .
Mag./ June , 1894 ) he traced the relation between the law of distribution and the assumed property that c^Q/ T is a -complete differential .
b 2 ii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
In these papers Burbury appears in the light of counsel for the defence , but when it comes to the question of proving the uniqueness of the Boltzmann -Maxwell distribution he takes up the opposite line , and shows that Boltzmann 's Minimum Theorem , and the deductions following from it , are based on a certain assumption , which he calls " assumption A. " This line of argument receives its fuller development in Burbury 's treatise on ' The Kinetic Theory of Gases ' published in 1899 .
As applied to collisions between two different kinds of molecules , the assumption is that the probability factor of a given distribution of co-ordinates and momenta between pairs of colliding molecules , previous to collision , is of the form Ff where F depends on the molecules of one kind and f on those of the other , in other words that the distributions of the two kinds , previously to collision , are independent of each other .
This will no longer be true after the collisions have taken place , so that if F ' and f are the subsequent separate probability factors for the two systems , the probability factor for the combined system is not really F'/ ' .
It thus becomes necessary to assume that between collisions a process of mixing takes place so that the distributions of the molecules which are about to collide again become independent and the new probability factor assumes the form F'f .
if assumption A be made , Burbury admits that Boltzmann 's Minimum Theorem can be proved , but not otherwise .
The question of reversibility has also been used by Burbury and others in this connection , who contend that for every motion which makes as the result of a collision , an equally probable reversed motion must exist in which the opposite occurs .
In a letter to the present writer , dated December 17 , 1901 , Burbury says : " Now I say that the law has never been proved at all , except as a deduction from Boltzmann 's assumption A. If it has ever been proved , or attempted , will you tell me where ?
Tait , Watson , Maxwell , Weinstein , all make Boltzmann 's assumption .
Further , there is no evidence whatever for Boltzmann 's assumption , except that it leads to the law of equal partition .
We are in a vicious circle .
The tortoise is supported on the back of the elephant , and when I ask what the elephant is supported on they say it is suspended from the tortoise .
" In his treatise Burbury considers the result of abandoning " assumption A. " and making " assumption B , " according to which " the chance of a given molecule having at any instant assigned velocities is not independent of the positions and velocities of other molecules at that instant .
" This leads him , at any rate for the simpler cases of elastic spheres , to a distribution in which the probability factor is an exponential function of an argument containing not only squares but also products of velocities .
In other words , he finds that the velocities of neighbouring molecules become correlated .
This would happen particularly in a dense medium , thus affording some theoretical explanation for the physical differences between such a medium and an ideal gas subject to Maxwell 's Law .
From this time onwards , Burbury devoted a large amount of attention to* Samuel Hawksley Burbury .
iii tracking and exposing assumption A , or its equivalent , in all the papers written on the kinetic theory .
The late Willard Gibbs ' ' Statistical Mechanics/ Jeans 's papers , Planck 's investigations , all fell under Burbury 's critical eye ; and it was not long before most writers found this part of their argument attacked in a short paper by Burbury .
One of the recent questions which attracted Burbury 's critical mind was the loss of available energy accompanying the diffusion of two gases at constant volume , a subject dating back to a paper by Lord Rayleigh , published in 1876 .
Burbury 's criticisms were published in the 'Phil .
Mag. ' for July , 1907 , and in ' Science Progress .
' The difficulty in the problem lies largely in the fact that it is impossible to assign a quantitative value to any irreversible transformation unless it is possible to restore the system to its original state by a compensating transformation , and further , unless the latter transformation is reversible , it is impossible to obtain a measure of anything but the sum total of the irreversible effects of the direct and reverse transformations .
If there is one thing to be said in criticism of Burbury 's views it is that he hardly appreciated\#151 ; or if he did appreciate it he did not sufficiently emphasise the fact\#151 ; that the whole question depends essentially on experimental evidence regarding the processes of separation of mixed gases .
If we express the belief that the entropy of a gas mixture is the sum of the entropies of its components when each component occupies the same volume as the original mixture , this belief is founded on statements which experimental physicists give us and which they can only prove to be approximately true .
If , however , we consider ideal perfect gases we find that this entropy property is independent of the other definitions of such a medium , just as Euclid 's axiom of parallels is independent of the other axioms of geometry , and it is possible to formulate a theory of media the mixtures of which are defined as satisfying a different entropy property .
Burbury frequently reverts to the argument , Why should two different gases behave differently to two different portions of the same gas ?
Those who have entered into friendly controversies with Burbury on similar knotty points will well appreciate the zeal with which he would follow up a line of argument , till in many cases his opponent would have to give up the contest , often owing to lack of opportunity to continue it .
He was a typical example of a school of mathematical physicists essentially characteristic of the second half of the nineteenth century .
Most of his fellow workers have passed away , such as Maxwell , Kelvin , Boltzmann , Watson , Stony , Willard Gibbs , all of whom devoted either the whole ora considerable part of their attention at one time or other to unravelling these difficult problems .
Such work is usually described as theoretical .
In reality it has every right to be called experimental .
To find out what conclusions follow from certain assumed hypotheses is no less an experiment because it is conducted on paper instead of with apparatus .
For many years previous to his death Burbury suffered from deafness .
Perhaps this was the reason for his abandoning his legal career and taking to iv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
mathematical physics as a scientific recreation .
He had four sons and two daughters .
He died in August , 1911 , and shortly afterwards one of his sons died when on active service in India .
It will be seen that Burbury 's work consisted largely in an attempt to secure logical rigour of treatment in the branches of mathematical physics in which he was interested .
It has certainly led to a closer examination of the foundations of statistical dynamics , and at the same time , when taken in conjunction with other contemporaneous investigations , has opened up a wide field of study which may well attract the attention of future workers . .
G. H. B. FREDERICK JOHN JERVIS-SMITH , 1848\#151 ; 1911 .
The Reverend Frederick John Jervis-Smith , the only son of the Reverend Prebendary Smith , of Taunton , was born at Taunton on April 2 , 1848 .
He was educated at Pembroke College , Oxford .
While still a boy at home he had the great advantage of meeting constantly William Ellis Metford , by whom his natural aptitude for science and mechanics w'as stimulated so that his genius , which was so marked in these directions , forced him at a later date to break away from the narrower life which his father wished him to follow .
In obedience to this wish he entered the Church and acted for some years as his father 's curate and organist , becoming later Yicar and Patron of the living of St. John 's , Taunton .
It must have been at this time also that with the help of Sir John Stainer he attained that knowledge of music and skill at the organ and piano that his friends so greatly admired , for a touch such as his could not have been acquired in later life .
While at Taunton he followed the bent that was so strong in him and carried on experimental work in his own workshop , acquiring by various means an intimate knowledge of workshop practice such as the amateur rarely possesses .
In 1886 he was invited to take charge of the Millard Engineering Laboratory attached to Trinity College , Oxford , and it was here that his best work was done .
A good indication of the variety of Jervis-Smith 's investigations may be found by reference to the c Philosophical Magazine ' in the twenty years from 1882 to 1902 .
The subject to which he devoted himself most particularly was that of work-measuring machines and integrators , and many of the papers are on this subject .
Several papers refer to the measurement of the torsion of rotating shafts with a view to determine the power being transFrederick John Jervis-Smith .
v mitted , and one of his early papers describes the means now adopted on large steamships , where , owing to the engines being turbines , indicated power cannot be ascertained and the torsional method is the only one available .
Other enquiries which interested him were the magnetic properties of metals as affected by mechanical stress or by heat ; electric sparks and the influence on them of flame or pressure .
Under this heading , probably , should be mentioned his beautiful electrically produced images of coins that he called inductoscript .
One of the most valuable results of Jervis-Smith 's ingenuity and mechanical aptitude is his tram chronograph .
Those who have used the old pendulum myographs so usual in physiological laboratories , where the time records are rendered tiresome by the variable speed of the recording surface , should be the first to appreciate this beautiful instrument , in which trouble from this cause is entirely eliminated .
A still greater value has been given to this instrument by the perfection of the electromagnetic styles that he invented and made .
By making his electromagnets extremely small and the yoke relatively short and thick he reduced the latent period so that this chronograph is now not only the most convenient but the most accurate instrument for ballistic and other measurements of the kind .
Other subjects of less interest perhaps in which Jervis-Smith made investigations or inventions were in relation to mercury pumps and means for raising the mercury continuously and automatically , quick distillation of mercury in vacuo , recalescence of iron , and high resistances made of graphite and plaster of Paris .
During the last few years since his retirement to his charming house near Lymington Jervis-Smith was greatly interested in glowing phenomena in vacuous bulbs moved or spun in electric and magnetic fields .
On these he made numerous original experiments , but up to the present these results are not well understood .
Jervis-Smith was awarded a medal at the Paris Exhibition of 1878 for a dynamometer , and at the Inventions Exhibition at South Kensington he was awarded a silver medal for his work on dynamometers .
He also received a medal from the Royal Humane Society for rescuing a person in danger of being drowned .
He was a member of the Committee on Explosives appointed by the Home Office in 1895-96 .
He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1894 .
He was keenly interested in the historical side of Physical Science , and often brought to light curious anticipations of more recent inventions .
He found , for instance , that the telephone had been made and described in Italy as an instrument for recording taps upon it by movement at the receiving end .
The former inventor had apparently invented the same instrument as Bell , but he never thought of speaking into it .
This historical appreciation made the selection of Jervis-Smith to represent the University of Oxford at the tercentenary of Torricelli at Faenza in 1898 singularly appropriate .
Throughout his career one subject was constantly receiving his atte ntion vi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
and that was dynamometry in its widest sense .
On this he had been collecting papers all his life , and in his later years he was putting these in order in the hope of seeing the great work completed which had gained so much from his originality .
It is hoped that this will appear this year .
He married Annie Eyton , second daughter of T. Taylor , Esq. , who with one surviving son remains to mourn his loss .
The singular charm , humour , and modesty of Jervis-Smith , no less than his genius , made his friendship a valued possession .
The writer of this notice found in addition a community of taste and a mutual sympathy , and he has lost his closest and most valued friend and counsellor .
C. V. B. JOHN BROWN , 1850\#151 ; 1911 .
John Brown , who died on November 1 , 1911 , at his residence , Longhurst , Dunmurry , Belfast , was born close by , at Edenderry , in 1850 , eldest son of John Shaw Brown , the proprietor and largely the developer of the well-known Edenderry flax spinning and weaving works .
During the seventies of last century his father took a conspicuous and public-spirited part in social and political life in Ulster , several times contesting the Parliamentary representation of divisions of Belfast on moderate Liberal principles , as understood in those days .
His son 's interests from earliest years were mechanical and philosophical .
After the usual school education at the Royal Academical .
Institution at Belfast , he went into the work of the firm .
In his leisure time he kept in touch with the progress of physical science , largely through the correspondence columns of the ' English Mechanic,5 a journal then at the zenith of its usefulness in keeping the workshop in touch with the laboratory , before the modern period when the rise of electric engineering has turned the professional societies into scientific institutions .
In this way he made and retained the acquaintance of other practical mechanicians of scientific taste , some of whom have taken a notable part in subsequent developments .
In particular , he became fascinated , at a time when the primary battery was still a main electric source of power , with the problem of the seat of the transformation of the chemical into electric energy .
Is the measured potential difference between copper and zinc due to a sudden transition between the metals where they are in contact , or is it mainly due to such transitions between each metal and the surrounding atmosphere in which the measuring apparatus must be immersed ?
The reasonings of Volta and John Brown .
Vll Faraday and Kelvin\#151 ; necessarily general and somewhat vague up to the nineties because the existence and role of electrons as the agents of all electric change were still unrecognized\#151 ; strongly fascinated him .
Where the chemical affinity lay , there , as he thought , should the potential difference be , at any rate in the state of equilibrium when no current passes\#151 ; for the passage of a current necessitates its own special distribution of driving force in accordance with Ohm 's law , which must be brought about by the superposition of transient distributions of free charge on the intrinsic transitions of potential aforesaid .
It was left to Brown to put these ideas to direct test : and the paper ( 1878 ) in which he announced that replacement of air or oxygen as the surrounding medium by sulphuretted hydrogen gas at once changed the direction of the potential difference between zinc and copper , attracted immediate attention and discussion .
He became a refined and diligent experimenter in the field of voltaic combinations , stoutly adhering against all comers to the indications of Faraday , whom he took as his mentor ( cf. obituary notice in ' Nature/ November 16 , 1911 ) , and -encouraged by the interest and friendship of George FitzGerald , Oliver Lodge , J. D. Everett , and other friends and colleagues .
When the resources , mostly self-constructed , of his own laboratory at Edenderry were inadequate , he worked for long spells in Everett 's physical laboratory at the Queen 's College , Belfast .
At a later stage he was attracted to Trinity College , Dublin , to the laboratory of his friend FitzGerald ; and while there , an explosion in chemical preparations , relating to his work on primary batteries , cost him the loss of an eye .
Later he resumed similar work at Belfast .
He had little instinct for publicity ; yet during these years he produced , besides many local papers and lectures at Belfast , an extensive general experimental paper on contact electricity in f Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' and a later one in 1902 on the effect of a heated bath of petroleum in modifying this phenomenon .
He seems to have been the first to publish the remarkable patterns produced by electric discharge on photographic plates .
He became interested also in the Hertzian electric waves , whose qualities were being explored and verified extensively in the Dublin laboratory by FitzGerald and Trouton and others about the time he was there\#151 ; just as , later , the results of the introduction by Marconi of the aerial antenna , which was needed to effect the copious radiation necessary for telegraphic signalling , were first publicly verified by them at a regatta in Dublin Bay , as tested by the transmission of press messages to the shore .
On the introduction of internal combustion engines , Brown at once grasped the new possibilities which they brought , and he spent much time experimenting on the development of the motor car ; but an isolated worker , far from the resources of capital and factories , could hardly much affect practical evolution in such a subject .
He also worked on the development of a spring wheel to absorb shock .
His experiences in this direction led him on to a cognate topic , on which he became a public force .
The badness of the roads , especially in Ireland , was a main obstacle to the introduction of the new viii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
type of locomotion .
He invented an instrument , attachable to a ear , to take* a trace of the inequalities of the road ; and he circulated the graphs thus obtained , to the occasional confusion of the road authorities .
He pointed out the evils of the slipshod methods of road-repair , by loosely spreading macadam stones mixed with mud , that were then in vogue .
He established the Irish Eoad Improvement Association , which brought pressure to bear on public bodies with considerable success , and later worked in touch with enlightened road engineers in Great Britain .
In these ways he was a pioneer in a development which now , under Government direction , is producing fundamental improvement in the facilities for communications and for country life .
He grudged no time or effort to the stimulation of scientific interests in the community among whom he lived .
He was one of the main forces which kept fresh and active in recent years the old-established Belfast Literary and Philosophical Society ; and when the British Association last visited Belfast in 1902 he was the expert and indefatigable local Secretary of the meeting .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1902 .
J. L. EDWARD DIVERS , 1837\#151 ; 1912 .
Edward Divers , M.D. , D.Sc .
, F.I.C. , after an operation followed by a painful illness , died at his residence at Kensington on April 8 .
He was born in London on November 27 , 1837 , and therefore at the time of his decease had attained his 75th year .
He was educated at the City of London School , the Royal College of Chemistry , and Queen 's College , Galway .
From this time onwards he was increasing his own knowledge , and by his numerous investigations added to that of others .
In 1870 he received the appointment of Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence at the Medical School of the Middlesex Hospital .
The experience he gained whilst holding this position stood him in good stead in after life , and invested him with authority in connection with criminology .
A great event in his career took place when he accepted a Professorship in Chemistry in the service of the Imperial Government of Japan .
This was in 1873 , at which time that country issued invitations to all nations that could give her assistance in acquiring the material civilisation of the West .
On his arrival in Japan , Divers had to attend to the building of his own laboratories , around which grew the palatial buildings of the Imperial College of Engineering .
In 1882 he was appointed Principal of this Edward Divers .
IX Institution .
It was here , in consequence of an explosion in a test tube , that for some time he practically lost his sight .
This , however , was partially regained , and , although with one eye he could read at a short distance from his face , he could not recognise acquaintances in the street .
Notwithstanding this misfortune , contrary to expectations , Divers ' power for work , rather than growing less , grew greater .
Memoir followed memoir and paper followed paper .
Many of these were written in conjunction with a colleague , an assistant , or some promising student .
Amongst these the names of Haga , Takamine , Shimidzu , Nakamura and others will be familiar to many chemists .
His work has appeared in the f Transactions ' and * Proceedings ' of the Royal Society , the 'Journal of the Chemical Society/ and particularly in the ' Journal of the College of Science of the Imperial University of Japan .
' In the latter we notice papers on Mercury Sulphites , the Composition of Tori mochi or Japanese birdlime , Oxyamidosulphonates and their conversion into Hyponitrites , the Manufacture of Calomel in Japan , Sulphazotates , Sulphate of Hydroxylamine , Imidosulphites , Nitrilosulphates , and Sulphamide .
In the ' Transactions of the Asiatic Society of Japan 5 we find contributions relating to Japanese meteorites and hot springs .
The accident which cut him off from pleasures which nearly all enjoy seems to have increased the time he had for original investigations .
He gave himself but short holidays ; and during the Long Vacation , when the halls of the College of Science were supposed to be deserted , the echo of a footstep or the hum of some quaint old melody told the intruder that Divers loved his laboratory better than hills he could not see .
At the entrance to that college a large bronze bust reminds many in Japan of a teacher they admired .
He went to Japan with an engagement for five years ; but he found an environment so fascinating and a bondage so agreeable , that he remained in that country without once leaving it for 26 years .
On his retirement he was made Emeritus Professor of the University of Japan , received the Second Class of the Order of the Sacred Treasure and the Third Class of the Rising Sun .
On reaching England his activity continued .
In 1902 he was President of the Chemical Section of the British Association .
He also became President of the Society of Chemical Industry , and represented that Society on the governing body of the Imperial College of Science and Technology .
In addition to these offices he was a VicePresident of the Chemical Society and of the Institute of Chemistry .
In 1865 he married Margaret Theresa FitzGerald , of Mayfield , County Cork .
His only son , who joined the Chinese Customs service , succumbed to an illness in Amoy .
His two daughters , the Comtesse de Labry and Mrs. Tilden , in common with all who knew him , mourn his loss .
He had a genial and generous disposition , was full of humour , was always ready to give assistance or advice , and was esteemed by all .
His high forehead and grey beard gave him a dignified appearance , while the kindly expression on his face was an invitation to friendship .
He did very much more than any other X Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
individual to found the present School of Chemistry in Japan , and his colleague , Professor Sakurai , writing from Japan , says Divers " will be for ever remembered in this country as the great promoter of chemical science .
" J. M. HENRY TAYLOR BOYEY , 1850\#151 ; 1912 .
Henry Taylor Bovey was born at Torquay on March 7 , 1850 .
He received his school education at Clevedon College , Northampton , a private school , many of whose pupils distinguished themselves afterwards at the University .
A scholarship from this school carried him to Queens ' College , Cambridge , where he read for the Mathematical Tripos .
In those days it was considered necessary , if a man aimed at a high position among the Wranglers , to read during the whole of his three years with one of a few leading coaches , college and University lectures taking a secondary position .
He became a pupil of W. H. Besant , F.R.S. , of St. John 's College , and graduated as Twelfth Wrangler in 1873 , shortly afterwards being elected to a Fellowship at his college .
Deciding to become a civil engineer , he entered the office of Sir George Lister , who was at that time the engineer of the Mersey Docks and Harbour Board .
He afterwards joined the staff of that Board as assistant engineer , in which capacity he had charge of some of the most important structures then in progress .
It was , however , as a Professor of Engineering that Bovey was to make his mark .
A severe accident in the football field , with broken ribs and a damaged lung , was the proximate cause of the change in his career .
He was advised to spend some time in a dry climate , and this induced him to accept the offer of the Chair of Engineering at McGill College , Montreal , which was made to him at this time by Sir W. Dawson , and he went to Canada in the autumn of 1877 to take up this post .
But at the end of the first year he appears to have been so dissatisfied with the organisation of the teaching that he sent in his resignation with the intention of returning to England .
He was persuaded , however , by the Principal to reconsider his determination , and receiving from the latter a promise of support in a reorganisation of the department , he decided to remain .
Although he did not know it at the time it was the opportunity of his life .
In a few years the Engineering School at McGill was transformed .
It became the leading institution of the kind on the American Continent , and his pupils were always sure of going straight from college into good engineering posts .
But it was not by any means all plain XI Henry Taylor Bovey .
sailing .
There were difficulties of organisation within , and the want of means to ensure development , until at last Sir W. Macdonald came to the rescue with princely donations .
His first fight was to free his subject from the domination of the Arts Faculty , and to obtain recognition of an independent Faculty of Applied Science .
In 1890 the Engineering building was begun , and he and the donor\#151 ; Sir Wm. Macdonald\#151 ; made a tour of Engineering schools in the States .
From what# they saw there it was easy to convince Sir William that McGill needed adequate buildings and Chairs for Physics and Chemistry , and Bovey 's ideas of adequacy were wide and large .
One who knew him well writes : " He found a subordinate department of the Faculty of Arts .
He freed it and made it a great Faculty .
I think he did it first by reason of boundless energy .
When he came over to the Imperial College he was already ill , and a mere shadow of himself , and could give no idea of what he was in the eighties and nineties .
He was then sanguine and self-confident , and full of go .
He had a real fund of geniality and kindness of heart .
Everyone who came out was sure of a most kind welcome and helpfulness of every sort .
He really had ideas that were worth while so far as the concrete creation of a great Faculty went , and from 1890 to 1900 he had practically a free hand .
In working out his ideas another marked gift appeared .
He always knew the right man to go to to get a thing done .
He enjoyed meetings and remembered people , and had that mysterious way of knowing what was going on by instinct .
His real gifts were practical organisation , knowing the right man , how to set about it , and no limit to what he wanted for the Faculty .
" In 1907 an offer was made to him of the rectorship of the Imperial College of Science and Technology in London , and he was definitely appointed to it in May , 1908 .
But his health had commenced to break down before this , and after two years ' work in the organisation of the new College , he resigned the post in December , 1909 .
He passed away at Eastbourne on February 2 , 1912 , and lies buried in Eastbourne Cemetery .
He married on May 5 , 1880 , Miss Emily Eedpath , youngest daughter of Mr. John Eedpath , of a well-known Montreal family .
He is survived by his widow , two sons , and three daughters .
The Eoyal Society elected him a Fellow in 1902 , and his old College in Cambridge conferred on him an honorary fellowship in 1906 .
He was one of the founders of the Canadian Society of Civil Engineers , and at one time or another held all the offices from Secretary to President .
He was also one of the founders of the Liverpool Society of Civil Engineers .
In 1896 .
he became President of Section III of the Eoyal Society of Canada .
He was author of several text-books on Engineering .
W. M. IL Xll EIGHT HON .
SIE JOHN CHAELES DALEYMPLE-HAY , Bart. , G.C.B. , 1821\#151 ; 1912 .
John Charles Dalrymple-Hay , third baronet , was born in Edinburgh on February 11 , 1821 .
He spent his early boyhood at home until sent to Eugby in 1833 .
Entering the Eoyal Navy in 1834 , he joined H.M.S. " Thalia , " serving in her on the West Coast of Africa .
From 1839 to 1842 he served in H.M.S. " Benbow , " on the Mediterranean Station , being present at the capture of St. Jean d'Acre by Sir Eobert Stopford in 1840 , and " being gazetted for gallantry at the attack on Tortosa .
Having passed his examination for Lieutenant in 1841 , he attained that rank in 1844 , and serving on the China Station became Flag Lieutenant to Admiral Sir Thomas Cochrane , who , in 1846 , promoted him to a vacancy as commander of the " Wolverene .
" Hay 's next appointment was to H.M. Brig " Columbine , " proceeding in her to the China Station in 1849 .
The opportunity now occurred for him to show the result of the excellent training he had received in ships commanded by able officers , animated by the great traditions of the Naval service .
The Chinese coasts were infested by pirates , and it was by the squadron\#151 ; two of which were paddle steamers\#151 ; under Hay 's command , that the most notable were destroyed in Bias Bay and the Tonquin Eiver , places then uncharted and requiring great audacity and perseverance to navigate .
It was here that the value of steam propulsion in war vessels came home to him .
For this service he was promoted to Captain and presented by the merchants in China with a service of plate .
During 1846-50 Hay undertook observations in meteorology , and communicated to the Indian Government papers on the cyclone theory , remarks on three typhoons in the China seas , and on two hurricanes off Mauritius , besides papers on storms in the Atlantic off Bermuda and the Western Islands , neither of which appears to have been published .
After serving in H.M.S. " Hannibal " during the Crimean War he became Captain of H.M.S. " Indus , " one of the last sailing line-of-battle ships commissioned for sea service , and on leaving her in 1859 his career at sea ended .
This was not intentional on his part , for trusting to his long service and existing regulations he fully counted upon being given an Admiral 's command .
But , being one of those officers of his day who appreciated the value of science when applied to his profession as a sailor , he saw an opening for utilising his energies in that direction for a time on land .
The construction of iron-built ships for war purposes which was attempted in the early forties was almost immediately discontinued as being quite unsuitable , and wood-built ships propelled by steam or sail , or both , as required , formed our Navy for several years .
However , the use of iron as a valuable protection to wood-built floating batteries was shown by the Sir John Charles Dalrymple-Hay .
xiii French when bombarding Kinburn in 1855 .
Then , in 1860 , was launched the French wood-built armour-plated frigate " La Gloire , " responded to in the same year by the British iron-built armour-plated frigate " Warrior .
" The latter vessel sounded the death-knell of the wood-built ship .
The early failure , and subsequent success and progressive use , of iron in the construction of warships when armour-plated had been favourably noted by Hay , enabling him to cast aside the strong predilection for the wood-built ship , which affected many able officers of his time , and he put all his strength into furthering what he considered to be the inevitable future .
In 1861 Hay became Chairman of the Iron-plate Committee appointed in 1860 to carry out experiments in armour and other proposals for introduction into the Navy .
For this he had many qualifications , actual experience of the value of armour for ships during the Crimean war , considerable war service afloat , and a mind open to genuine improvements .
Moreover , he possessed great tact and ability in smoothing the difficulties which presented themselves when presiding over a Committee consisting of eminent scientific members dealing with inventions and proposals , good , bad , or indifferent , often strongly pressed for adoption .
Following this , the Institution of Naval Architects elected him a VicePresident in 1862 , and later on he became Chairman of the Mill wall Shipbuilding Company , and also of Keuter 's Telegraph Company .
The work he had so far undertaken was not enough for Hay 's activities , for he sought other opportunities for promoting naval progress by entering Parliament .
He was successively Member for Wakefield , 1862-65 ; Stamford , 1866-80 ; and Wigton Burghs , 1880-85 .
In 1866 he accepted a seat on the Board of Admiralty , a post he held for two years and a half .
It was during this period that Hay , now a Bear-Admiral , successfully contended for a large addition of armour-plated ships to the Navy , in spite of considerable opposition , even tendering his resignation of a coveted position rather than give way upon a question he considered vital to the strength of the Navy .
It was with deep regret that , at the age of 49 , Sir John was obliged to relinquish all prospects of active service at sea .
A new scheme of compulsory retirement for all officers who had been unemployed afloat for specified periods was ordered , and Hay , refusing the offer to be made an exception to the rule , had to go .
If he could not serve his country in the way of his choice , he was , at any rate , free to do so in other directions .
Thus , not only in Parliament , but at the meetings of the Institution of Naval Architects , he was a keen debater on naval questions , and he did good work as VicePresident of the Boyal United Service Institution .
Of his published writings , the following may be mentioned : 1868 , ' Lines from my Log Book ' ; 1876 , The Flag List and its Prospects ' ; 1878 , 'Ashanti and the Gold Coast ' ; 1883 , 'Our Naval Deficiencies ' ; 1889 , 'Piracy in the China Seas .
' In 1903 , when seismology was much to the front , he contributed to the ' Proceedings ' an interesting paper , written from xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
his own naval experiences , " On Central American Earthquakes , particularly the Earthquake of 1838/ ' Sir John was the recipient of various distinctions .
In 1852 he became a Fellow of the Eoyal Geographical Society , and in 1864 was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society .
Ten years later he was appointed a Privy Councillor .
Oxford and Glasgow conferred on him the honorary degrees of D.C.L. and LL. D. respectively .
He was created K.C.B. in 1885 and G.C.B. in 1902 .
Sir John married the Hon. Eliza Napier , third daughter of the eighth Lord Napier , in 1847 , and by her had three sons and six daughters .
She died in 1901 .
The eldest son having died in 1908 , the next , William Archibald , succeeded to the baronetcy , which his father had held since 1861 .
As a naval officer Hay was a strict disciplinarian , tempered with tact and full consideration for the welfare and happiness of those under his command , qualities fully appreciated by seamen .
Both in private and public life lie was remarkable for his genuine courtesy , coupled with the frankness of the sailor , and his memory will be long and warmly cherished by his acquaintances as well as friends , including many of the Fellows of the Royal Society , who much appreciated his regular attendance at the meetings and at other functions .
Admiral Sir John Charles Dalrymple-Hay died at his residence in London on January 28 , 1912 , in his 91st year .
E. W. C. XV OSBORNE REYNOLDS , 1842\#151 ; 1912 .
Osborne Reynolds was born August 23 , 1842 , at Belfast .
He came of a clerical family .
His grandfather and great-grandfather had been rectors of Debach-with-Boulge , Suffolk .
His father , the Rev. Osborne Reynolds , was thirteenth Wrangler in 1837 ( a year remarkable as being that of Green and Sylvester ) , and was subsequently Fellow of Queens ' College , Principal of the Belfast Collegiate School , Headmaster of Dedham Grammar School , Essex , and finally , in his turn , rector of Debach .
For his early education Reynolds was indebted chiefly to his father , first at Dedham and afterwards privately .
In 1861 , at the age of nineteen , he entered the workshop of Mr. Edward Hayes , mechanical engineer , of Stony Stratford , in order , as Mr. Hayes expressed it , " to learn in the shortest time possible how work should be done , and , as far as time would permit , to be made a working mechanic before going to Cambridge to work for Honours .
" The motives which guided the first steps in Reynolds ' career may be stated in his own words.* " From my earliest recollection I have had an irresistible liking for mechanics ; and the studies to which I have specially devoted my time have been mechanics , and the physical laws on which mechanics as a science are based .
In my boyhood I had the advantage of the constant guidance of my father , also a lover of mechanics , and a man of no mean attainments in mathematics and their application to physics .
" After referring to the year he spent with Mr. Hayes , he proceeds :\#151 ; " Having now sufficiently mastered the details of the workshops , and my attention at the same time being drawn to various mechanical phenomena , for the explanation of which I discovered that a knowledge of mathematics was essential , I entered at Queens ' College , Cambridge , for the purpose of going through the University course , previously to going into the office of a civil engineer .
" The decision to proceed to Cambridge appears to have been taken rather suddenly , for his previous education had not included Greek ; he succeeded , however , by the obstinate labour of a few weeks , in reaching the standard of the " Previous Examination .
" His mathematical studies were pursued with success , for he graduated in 1867 as seventh Wrangler , and was immediately afterwards elected to a Fellowship .
He then entered the office of Mr. John Lawson , civil engineer , of London .
In 1868 he was elected to the newly instituted professorship of engineering in the Owens College .
This professorship was almost !
the first of its kind in England , although similar chairs had existed for some time in Scotland and in Ireland , and had been illustrated by such names as those of James Thomson and Rankine .
It is possible that Reynolds was influenced to some extent by * Taken from his letter of application for the Owens College professorship .
+ Fleeming Jenkin had been appointed professor of civil engineering at University College , London , in 1865 .
VOL. LXXXVIII.\#151 ; A. C xvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
the tradition of these chairs .
With Eankine , at all events , for whom he always professed the greatest admiration , he had strong affinities , in the range of his scientific interests , in the directness of his intuitions , and in the courage and tenacity with which he attacked difficult and complicated problems .
He resembled Eankine also in his views as to the scientific character of the training to be given to engineering students .
The course of instruction which he arranged for his pupils , and to which he consistently adhered , was remarkable for the thoroughness and completeness of the theoretical groundwork .
On one point he was uncompromising .
In his mind all engineering was one , so far as the student is concerned , and the same fundamental training was required whatever the nature of the specialisation which was to come afterwards in practice .
As an ideal principle this can hardly be gainsaid , although the varied ramifications of mechanical science , and the increasing multiplicity of " subjects , " have in more recent times compelled a deviation from it .
The course laid out by Eeynolds was no doubt felt by many students to be severe , and there is testimony that his lectures were not always easy to follow .
It is therefore hardly to be wondered at if at first some shade of disappointment was felt by the eminent practical engineers , and other friends of the Owens College , who had worked for the creation of the professorship .
Few could have foreseen at that time how splendidly the appointment was destined to be justified , not only by the distinguished scientific career for which it served as a base , but also by the succession of students who derived stimulus and inspiration from the genius of their teacher , and who came afterwards to occupy important positions in the professional as well as in the academical world .
Both branches of his activity were greatly assisted by the establishment of the Whitworth Engineering Laboratory in 1888 , although some facilities for hydrodynamical experiments on a moderate scale had been secured at an earlier date .
Several of the more important appliances in the new laboratory , e.g. the triple-expansion engines and the hydraulic brakes , were specially designed by Eeynolds for purposes of study and research , and presented many novel features .
Shortly after his appointment Eeynolds entered on the career of original research which continued without interruption down to his retirement in 1905 .
The results of many of his investigations were communicated in the first instance to the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society , which cherished the memory of Dalton , and was still distinguished by the presence of Joule .
In the affairs of this Society Eeynolds took a lively interest ; he was Secretary from 1874 to 1883 , and President for the term 1888-9 .
After the death of Joule he wrote for the Society a memorial volume , which was published in 1892 ; and he was the leading spirit in the movement for a public monument to Joule , which resulted in the beautiful statue by Gilbert which now adorns the Manchester Town Hall .
His scientific writings are a remarkable fulfilment of the plan traced out in the letter which has been quoted .
They deal almost entirely with mechanical Osborne Reynolds .
xvii questions , or with physical phenomena so far as these appear to be susceptible of mechanical interpretation .
Although they treat of subjects which are at first sight widely different in character , there are many underlying affinities , and trains of thought which constantly recur .
It is characteristic of Eeynolds that , even when they bear on questions of immediate practical import , there is a persistent endeavour to penetrate to fundamental principles , and to disregard what is accidental or adventitious .
It is probably for this reason , in part , that there was some delay in the recognition of his work by the practical world , even in cases where his ideas have since been proved to contain the germ of fruitful applications .
His work on turbine pumps , for example , is now recognised as having laid the foundation of the great modern development in these appliances , whilst his early investigations on the laws governing the condensation of steam on metal surfaces , and on the communication of heat between a metal surface and a fluid in contact with it , stand in a similar relation to recent improvements in boiler and condenser design .
About the year 1899 the Cambridge University Press suggested to Eeynolds that a collected edition of his papers would be valuable , and offered to undertake the publication .
This signal compliment on the part of his old University was greatly appreciated by him , and in due course two considerable volumes appeared .
Some idea of the extent of his scientific activity may be gathered from an inspection of the list of contents of this edition .
In the way of practical papers , we find , in addition to those already referred to , investigations on the " racing " of the screws of steamers , on the steering of screw steamers , on rolling friction , on the errors of indicator diagrams , and on the action of tidal currents in the silting of estuaries .
These , and others , may still be read with profit , and display , equally with the more impressive contributions to science , his skill in unravelling and explaining a mass of complicated detail by the light of some simple mechanical principle .
In the scientific world at large , however , the reputation of Eeynolds is most likely to rest in the future on his contributions to general physics , and , in particular , to hydrodynamics , although here also the suggestion came usually from some practical question of engineering .
The paper on " Lubrication " ( 1886 ) , for example , explains on familiar hydrodynamical principles how the presence of a film of oil is maintained between a rotating shaft and its bearings , in spite of enormous pressures between them .
The explanation , when given , is almost obvious ; but Eeynolds was the first to formulate it explicitly , and to submit it to the test of calculation .
To many minds it had not even occurred that there was anything to be explained at all .
In the paper " On the Law of Eesistance in Parallel Channels " ( 1883 ) , an experimental investigation is made of the circumstances which determine whether the flow of water through a pipe shall be smooth and regular , with a resistance varying as the velocity , as in Poiseuille 's experiments with capillary tubes , or irregular and sinuous ( or " turbulent , " to use Lord Kelvin 's happy xviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
description ) , with a resistance varying more nearly as the square of the velocity , as in most questions of practical hydraulics .
The conclusion , based on the dynamical principle of " dimensions , " and confirmed by the experiments , is that there is a certain " critical velocity , " depending on the ratio of the ( kinematic ) viscosity of the fluid to the diameter of the pipe , at or about which the transition takes place from one type of motion to the other .
The character of the motion , at any stage , was revealed by the behaviour of a filament of coloured water introduced into the stream , a device often used by Reynolds in the study of fluid motion .
The experiments described in the paper , and often repeated by Reynolds in his lectures , were of a beautiful and striking character .
Although much has since been written on the subject , and something still remains to be cleared up , the investigation has taken rank as a classic , and is perhaps the most widely appreciated amongst the decisive achievements of the author .
The most extensive piece of purely experimental work carried out by Reynolds was undoubtedly that bearing on the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat , and described in the Bakerian Lecture for 1897 .
This was prompted by a number of considerations .
The original determination of Joule depended ultimately on the properties of a particular thermometer .
More recent observers had endeavoured to refer their measurements to the absolute scale , but with somewhat discordant results .
Measurements of the heat generated in the hydraulic brakes in the Whitworth Laboratory had been conducted under Reynolds ' direction for some years , and compared with the work absorbed , but this had been done mainly by way of verification , and for practice .
He was at length led to recognise that he had at his command appliances which could be used on an unprecedented scale , and to solve a more definite problem .
The question which he attacked was to ascertain the total amount of work required to raise a pound of water from freezing point to boiling point , or in other words , the mean specific heat ( in terms of work ) between these two temperatures .
The object of the measurement thus became absolutely definite , and independent of any arbitrary thermometric scale ; and at the same time , owing to the great quantities which could be dealt with , the margin of error could be greatly reduced .
The principle of the method was simple in the extreme ; water was fed into the brake at the freezing temperature , there raised by friction to boiling point , and then carried off to a tank on the table of a weighing machine .
The work absorbed was given by the couple on the brake , multiplied by the total rotation of the shaft .
A good deal of preliminary work was required , and some improvements in the mechanism , before the method was brought to its ultimate degree of accuracy .
The final measurements , which extended over a considerable period , were undertaken by Mr. W. H. Moorby .
The definitive result was that the mean specific heat between freezing and boiling points , expressed in mechanical units , at Manchester , is 776*94 .
The whole investigation is a model of scientific method , and may claim to rank among the classical determinations of physical constants .
Osborne Reynolds .
xix Among the shorter writings which have played a part in the development of science mention may be made of the papers on the " Refraction of Sound " ( 1874 ) , and on " Group-Velocity of Waves " ( 1877 ) .
The effect of wind on the transmission of sound had been discussed by Stokes in 1857 .
Reynolds independently gave the same explanation , and confirmed it by a series of experiments ; he also added an examination of the various effects of a vertical temperature gradient , according as the temperature decreases or increases upwards .
As regards group-velocity , a geometrical explanation had been given by Stokes , but Reynolds brought in the very important and significant fact that the group-velocity gives also the rate of transmission of energy .
A word must be said as to the style and composition of his papers , if only because these elements have been the occasion of some injustice and neglect .
The leading idea is in nearly all cases simple ; his bias was , indeed , always to look for a simple explanation of a phenomenon , rather than to frame a theory based on the concurrence of a number of independent causes .
But when he came to write out the results of his researches , he appears to have aimed in the first place at a statement which should , accurately reflect his own experience of the matter .
Unfortunately , the joints which have given most trouble to the author are not always those which are most difficult to the reader , and vice versed .
When , on one or two occasions , he took up a subject for a second time , with a view to explaining it to a popular audience , he was lucid and forcible .
Like some other distinguished physicists whom one can call to mind , he was not a great reader of contemporary scientific literature .
When new theories were brought under his notice , he thought the questions out independently and in his own way .
He held to his own technical terms and phrases , even when there was an established usage , and sometimes employed familiar terms in a new sense .
Consequently , the reader of his papers will at times find it necessary to bring some patience to the task , if he means to extract the solid value which is to be found in them .
But , with one or two exceptions , there are no cases of obscurity which cannot be surmounted in this way .
Although he sometimes affected , not quite seriously , to despise mathematics , he had considerable mathematical power , and did not hesitate to apply it on occasion .
One or two of his calculations , if isolated from their context , would rank as considerable analytical achievements , even if they had been carried out with the help of modern and more expeditious methods .
Reference may here be made to the paper on " Dimensional Properties of Matter in the Gaseous State " ( 1879 ) , and to that on the " Dynamical Theory of Incompressible Viscous Fluids " ( 1894 ) .
The former paper , written in the early days of the radiometer , is important in relation to the theory of gases , and discusses , both experimentally and mathematically , the new phenomenon of " thermal transpiration .
" In the latter an attack is made on the very difficult problem of calculating theoretically the critical velocity , already referred to , at which the regular flow of a liquid through a pipe becomes unstable .
XX Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased .
At the British Association meeting of 1885 , Reynolds read a short paper on the " Dilatancy " of granular media .
When an agglomeration of loose granules is closely packed , it cannot have its shape altered without increasing , at all events temporarily , the volume of the interstices .
Consequently , if such an aggregation is prevented from expanding , it becomes rigid .
These principles were illustrated by simple but striking experiments , and it was also pointed out that they lead at once to the explanation of a familiar but hitherto obscure phenomenon , viz. that when a foot is planted on the firm moist sand of the sea-shore , the space immediately around becomes relatively dry , whilst the space beneath the foot , when this is raised , is found to be abnormally wet .
This explanation , it may be mentioned , gave great delight to Lord Kelvin .
In spite of the interest of the experiments , Reynolds was careful to state that the theory was anterior to them .
He had long speculated on the possibility of a mechanical theory of matter and ether which should , amongst other things , resolve the riddle of gravitation .
He had convinced himself that a medium composed of smooth rigid grains ( e.g. spheres ) in contact was promising , and it was by reflection on the properties of such a medium that he was led to foresee the somewhat paradoxical behaviour of sand and other granular aggregations which %ras so beautifully confirmed by his experiments .
The results of the remarkable physical speculation referred to are recorded in the long memoir on the " Sub-mechanics of the Universe " which marked the close of his scientific career .
This was read before the Royal Society on February 3,1902 , and now constitutes the third and final volume of his collected papers .
Unfortunately , illness had already begun gravely to impair his powers of expression , and the memoir as it stands is affected with omissions and discontinuities which render it unusually difficult to follow .
Ko one who has studied the work of Reynolds can doubt that it embodies ideas of great value , as well as of striking originality ; but it is to be feared that their significance will hardly be appreciated until some future investigator , treading a parallel path , recognises them with the true sympathy of genius , and puts them in their proper light .
Prof. Reynolds , owing to the failing state of his health , withdrew from the active work of his chair in 1905 .
His last years were spent in retirement at Watchet , Somerset , where he died on February 21 , 1912 .
He had been twice married ; first , in June , 1868 , to a daughter of Dr. Chadwick , of Leeds , who died in July , 1869 ; and secondly , in December , 1881 , to a daughter of the Rev. H. Wilkinson .
A son by the first marriage died in 1879 .
By his second marriage he leaves three sons and a daughter .
The character of Reynolds was , like his writings , strongly individual .
He was conscious of the value of his work , but was content to leave it to the mature judgment of the scientific world .
For advertisement he had no taste ; and undue pretensions on the part of others only elicited a tolerant smile .
To his pupils he was most generous in the opportunities for valuable work which he put in their way , and in the share of credit which he assigned to them in cases of co-operation .
Somewhat reserved in serious or personal Osborne Reynolds .
xxi matters , and occasionally combative and tenacious in debate , he was in the ordinary relations of life the most kindly and genial of companions .
He had a keen sense of humour , and delighted in starting paradoxes , which he would maintain , half seriously and half playfully , with astonishing ingenuity and resource .
The illness which at length compelled his retirement was felt as a grievous personal calamity by his pupils , his colleagues , and by other friends throughout the country .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1877 , and received a Royal Medal in 1888 .
He was made an Honorary Fellow of Queens ' College , Cambridge , in 1881 , and received the degree of LL. D. from the University of Glasgow in 1884 .
An admirable portrait by Collier , presented by scientific friends and admirers from all parts of the kingdom , hangs in the hall of the Manchester University .
H. L.

