442 Prof. Ramsay and Mr. Travers .
Gaseous amount of alkali required in the intestine for the absorption of all the fats of a fatty meal , as soaps , is out of all proportion to the amount actually present , being about twice the total alkalinity of the body.* The first objection has already been discussed ; it has been shown that the acid reaction is due to weak organic acids , and that an alkaline reaction can be obtained by the use of a proper indicator , due to a compound of these weak acids with bases ; in other words , to soaps .
The second objection may be met by the supposition that the same quantity of alkali acts cyclically as a carrier in conveying quantity after quantity of fatty radicle , as soap , from the intestine .
The soaps are , it is known , broken up in the intestinal cells , and formed into fats by the action of the cell ; in such a reaction alkali is set free , and there is no obvious reason why it should not be returned to the intestine and serve to carry a fresh portion of fatty radicle dissolved as soap into the epithelial cells .
Such an action takes place in the acid secreting cell of the gastric gland , where sodium chloride is taken up from the blood , split into acid and alkali , and the alkali returned to the blood while the acid passes into the gland lumen ; it is not , therefore , unreasonable to suppose that a similar action can take place in the intestinal absorbing cell .
We conclude that in certain animalssuch as the dog , fats are absorbed partially as dissolved fatty acids , and partially as dissolved while in other animals , such as the white rat , fats are chiefly , if not entirely , absorbed as dissolved soaps .
" The Gaseous Constituents of certain Mineral Substances and Natural Waters .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , and Morris W. Travers , B.Sc. Received December 30,1896 , \#151 ; Read February 4 , 1897 .
It is still uncertain whether helium is a single elementary gas or a mixture of two or more gases .
If a mixture , it is probable that they should occur independently , and that the proportion of the constituent gases should vary in samples from different sources .
During the past year the gases obtained from a large number of minerals and natural waters have been examined with a view to investigate this point , and , also , to determine whether any new gaseous element could be discovered .
In every instance the results have been negative ; no reaction to litmus .
Although fats are not absorbed in the form of an emulsion , it is evident that the formation of an emulsion in the intestine must enormously increase the surface exposed to the action of the intestinal fluids , and proportionately increase the rate at which the fats are decomposed and dissolved .
* Munk , ( Yircliow 's Archiv , ' vol. 95 , 1884 , p. 408 .
Constituents of certain Mineral Substances and Waters .
443 indication of the presence of any new element lias been obtained , nor has any abnormality been observed in the spectrum of any of the gases examined .
Method of Examination of the Mineral Substance .
The mineral was ground to fine powder in an agate mortar , and then mixed with about twice its weight of acid potassium sulphate .
This mixture was placed in a hard glass tube , which was connected with a Topler pump , and , after exhaustion , heated to a red heat by means of a large Bunsen burner .
The gases evolved were pumped off and collected over mercury in a tube containing a little caustic potash solution .
In some instances , however , the mineral was heated alone ; the same result was obtained , but the evolution of gas takes place rather more slowly .
In order to diminish any chance of leakage of air into the apparatus , the hard glass tube was connected with the pump in the manner shown in fig. 1 .
The tube was drawn out to a neck at the point A. A piece of thick-walled rubber tube was fitted over the end of the tube B connected with the pump , and it was then forced tightly into the neck of the hard glass tube .
By pouring a little mercury into the cup C the joint could be made absolutely air-tight .
Examination of Minerals and blocks .
Several samples of fergusonite , monazite , and samarskite were first examined , and were found to give quantities of helium up to 1*5 c.c. per gram .
Columbite ( a variety of tantalite ) , an isomorphous mixture of niobate and tantalate of iron and manganese , gave 1*3 c.c. of gas consisting chiefly of helium .
Pitchblende , containing zirconium , obtained by Dr. Hillebrand from Colorado , gave 0'36 c.c. of gas per gram , of which 0'3 c.c. was helium .
Another sample gave 0'27 c.c. of helium per gram .
444 Prof. Ramsay and Mr. Travers .
Gaseous Malacone , ZrS04 , from Hitteroe in Norway , was the only mineral in which argon was found .
Five grams of the mineral gave 12 c.c. of gas unabsorbed by caustic soda .
After explosion with oxygen , and absorption of the residual oxygen with phosphorus , about OT c.c. of gas remained .
The residue was introduced into a tube with aluminium electrodes which was sealed off from the pump and attached to a coil giving a discharge sufficiently powerful to heat the electrodes to a red heat .
The nitrogen was quickly absorbed by the red-hot electrodes , and , as soon as the banded spectrum had disappeared , the lines of helium and argon became visible .
The green line of the helium spectrum was very strong , and the glow in the tube was distinctly green .
The argon present was in too large quantity to be attributed to accidental leakage of air into the apparatus ; but , in order to confirm this exceptional result , and also to determine whether the green effect in the tube was due entirely to the low pressure of the helium , the experiment was repeated with a larger quantity of the mineral .
With 10 grams of the mineral a quantity of gas was obtained , which , after removal of nitrogen , gave a yellow glow in the vacuum-tube ; argon was again present , and its second spectrum could be brought out very strongly by means of a jar and a spark-gap in the secondary circuit .
The experiment was repeated a third time with the same result .
This proved conclusively that malacone contains both argon and helium .
Cinnabar.\#151 ; Five grams gave 0'5 c.c. of gas , which consisted only of carbon monoxide .
Cryolite.\#151 ; 7'6 grams gave only a minute bubble of carbon monoxide .
Apatite.\#151 ; Six grams gave 05 c.c. of a gas consisting wholly of hydrogen and carbon monoxide .
Baryta-celestine.\#151 ; No gas was evolved ; the pump remained at a phosphorescent vacuum .
Serpentine.\#151 ; This specimen was from the Riffelhorn , and has been analysed by Miss Aston 5 grams gave 4 c.c. of gas which consisted wholly of hydrogen .
Gneiss , from the Diamirai Glacier , directly below the peak of Nanga-Parbat , Kashmir , brought home by Dr. Collie : 3 grams gave 6 c.c. of hydrogen .
Scapolite , a silicate of calcium , magnesium , and aluminium , gave no gas .
Cobalt ore , containing a considerable quantity of manganese dioxide:\#151 ; 3'2 grams of mineral , heated alone , gave 35 c.c. of gas consisting wholly of oxygen .
* * ' G-eol .
Soc. Journ. , ' 1896 , p. 452 .
Constituents of certain Mineral Substances and Waters .
445 Lava from Iceland :\#151 ; Two specimens were examined ; in each case a little carbon dioxide was obtained .
Some specimens from the Kimberley diamond field , obtained from Mr. Crookes :\#151 ; Blue clay :\#151 ; A considerable quantity of a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide was obtained .
After explosion with oxygen , no trace of .gas remained .
Coarse-grained gravel and so-called " carbon " gave the same result .
Examination of Specimens of Meteoric Iron .
Specimens of meteoric iron were kindly sent for examination by Dr. Fletcher of the British Museum :\#151 ; Greenbrier County meteorite :\#151 ; Ten grams of metal gave a fairly large quantity of gas on heating , which consisted wholly of hydrogen .
Toluca meteorite :\#151 ; One gram gave 2'8 c.c , of pure hydrogen .
Charca meteorite :\#151 ; One gram gave 0-28 c.c. of hydrogen .
Rancho de la Pila meteorite ( ' Min .
Mag. , ' ix , 153 ) :\#151 ; One gram gave 057 c.c. of gas .
It consisted of hydrogen .
Obernkirchen Meteorite , from Schaumberg-Lippe , Germany , described by Wichs and Wohler ( ' Pogg .
Ann. , ' vol. 120 , p. 509 ) :\#151 ; One gram gave 2'6 c.c. of gas .
The gases from these meteorites were exploded with oxygen , and were found to contain no trace either of argon or helium , or of nitrogen .
The carbon compounds present were possibly produced by the decomposition of the oil , \amp ; c. , with which the shavings of meteoric iron had become contaminated .
It will be remembered that a previously examined specimen of meteorite was found to contain both argon and helium .
Examination of the Gases held in Solution by the Waters certain Mineral Springs .
Old Sulphur Well , Harrogate.\#151 ; One carboy of water gave 650 c.c. of gas from which , after circulation and sparking , 45 c.c. of argon were obtained .
Spectroscopic examination of the gas proved that it contained nothing but argon .
Strathpeffer Wells.\#151 ; One carboy of water gave 1 litre of a gas which , after sparking and circulation , gave 22 c.c. of pure argon .
The gas was separated from these waters by the method described by Lord Rayleigh ( 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 186 , p. 220 ) .
Mineral Springs of Cauterets.\#151 ; The mineral springs of the Hautes Pyrenees , particularly those containing sulphides , have long been known to contain considerable quantities of nitrogen .
Dr. H. C. Bouchard , of Paris , has recently ( ' Count .
Rend .
, ' vol. 121 , p. 392 ) published an account of his examination of gases obtained from the wells 446 Prof. Ramsay and Mr. Travers .
Gaseous at Cauterets , which he has found to contain a considerable quantity of a mixture of argon and helium .
He appears to have made a rough spectroscopic examination of the gases , and has stated in his paper that some of the lines in the red end of the spectrum do not belong to the spectrum either of argon or of helium .
The author , a medical man , has dealt with the matter from a purely clinical standpoint , and his paper contains no data with regard to the supposed new lines .
To obtain samples of these gases , it was necessary to make a journey to Cauterets , and to visit the wells personally .
Taking advantage of the Easter holidays , we left England provided with twelve tin cylinders , each with a capacity of 2 litres , for the purpose of collecting samples of gas from as many of the wells as we could obtain admission to .
The management of the baths and wells granted us permission to visit the actual sources from which the baths , \amp ; c. , are supplied , and courteously gave us every assistance , placing at our disposal the services of men connected with the different establishments .
We were able to obtain samples of gas from four of the springs close to the town , but , on account of the deep snow , some of the more distant " sources " were quite inaccessible .
The " sources " are for the most part situated at the end of tunnels driven for some distance into the hill-side .
The water rises from below into tanks beneath the floor of the tunnels , and is conducted through pipes to the baths .
Circular holes , about 9 inches diameter , in the floor formed the only means of inspecting the interior of the tanks .
The gas appeared to rise with the water from natural springs in the bottom of the tanks ; it was this gas that we collected for our investigation .
The apparatus employed is shown in the accompanying figure .
A piece of rubber tube B is fitted on to the lower tap of the cylinder A , which was then sucked full of water .
The taps were then closed , and the cylinder fixed in a vertical position , the rubber tube hanging down into the tank .
A second piece of rubber tube , C , was fitted on to the funnel D , which was lowered into the tank .
Water was then drawn up into the rubber tube , which was immediately slipped over the nozzle of the upper tap on the tin cylinder .
The taps were then opened , and the funnel brought over some point on the floor of the tank , from which gas was escaping .
The gas rising into the funnel rapidly replaced the water in the cylinder which escaped back into the tank by the lower tube .
In some of the wells a large quantity of gas could be collected in a short time , but in others the bubbles rose only very slowly .
Name of " source .
" Temp. Time required to fill vessels .
Raillere ... ... ... . .
39'5 ' C. One tin in two hours .
Des CEufs ... ... ... .
5T0 , , Three tins in 30 minutes .
Caesar ... ... ... ... .
46'0 " One tin in four hours .
Espagnol , ... ... ... .
46'0 " Three tins in about 15 minutes .
Constituents of certain Mineral Substances and Waters .
447 Fig. 2 .
Floor of Tunnel .
Water .
We proceeded with the examination of the gases immediately on our return to London .
The gases were transferred to a glass gasholder containing potash solution , and circulated over red-hot magnesium and copper oxide .
The residual gas was pumped out of the circulating apparatus , and sparked with oxygen over potash to remove final traces of nitrogen .
Preliminary Spectroscopic Examination of the Gases .
Raillere.\#151 ; Argon and helium , helium strong .
Des ( Eufs.\#151 ; Argon , with less helium .
Espagnol.\#151 ; Argon , with helium ; the yellow and green helium lines very distinct , with jar and spark-gap .
Caesar.\#151 ; Argon , with a little helium .
The tubes were carefully compared with normal argon and helium tubes , but no new lines could be detected .
An attempt was made to separate the gas into its constituents by taking advantage of their relative solubilities .
A measured quantity 448 Gaseous Constituents of certain Mineral Substances , fyc .
of the gas was confined over a large quantity of boiled water , and the residue taken for examination .
Raillere ... ... ... ... ... 3'7 c.c. taken , DO c.c. residue .
Des CEufs ... ... ... ... . .
8-5 " 4'0 " Csesar ... ... ... ... ... . .
2'2 , , 0'5 , , Espagnol ... ... ... ... ... 8'0 , , ( not measured ) .
The residue showed the helium lines rather more strongly .
The Des ( Eufs gas was submitted to fractional diffusion by the method described in the following paper .
The gas was divided into two portions by diffusion through a porous plug .
These two fractions were then diffused separately , the light fraction of the heavy gas , and the heavy fraction of the light gas forming an intermediate fraction .
This was again separated by diffusion into a heavy and a light portion , which were mixed with the heavy and light fraction obtained in the second stage .
The process was repeated four times , and the resulting fractions , after sparking with a little oxygen , were rediffused so as to obtain the lightest sixth of the light fraction , and the heaviest sixth of the heavy fraction .
In a Pliicker tube , the helium line , D3 , appeared somewhat stronger in the light gas , but the difference was not so marked as might have been expected .
Neither of the tubes showed any lines other than those of the argon or helium spectrum .
The other samples of gas were not submitted to the diffusion process , as it did not seem probable that any results of value would be obtained .
In another paper it is shown that separation of helium from argon can be effected by taking advantage of the absorption of that gas by the platinum splashed on to the walls of the tube during the passage of the discharge .
The gas is made to circulate at about 3 mm. pressure through a vacuum-tube with platinum electrodes , and kept cool by a water-jacket .
The helium , together with any nitrogen or carbon compounds that may be present , is absorbed by the platinum , and may be liberated by heating the tube with a Bunsen 's burner .
The heavier fraction of the Des CEufs gas , and some of the gas from the Raillere were treated by this process , and the gas liberated from the platinum on heating was in each case introduced into a vacuum-tube with aluminium electrodes .
The tube showed a banded spectrum which disappeared as the nitrogen was absorbed by the heated aluminium , leaving only normal helium at low pressure and a trace of argon .
If any o|her gas , other than argon and helium , be present in the residue front the gas evolved from these various springs , after removal of the nitrogen , the methods employed have totally failed to bring it to light so far .
It certainly cannot be present in any measurable quantity .

