612 Dr. G. Harley .
The Structural Arrangement of the " The Structural Arrangement of the Mineral Matters in Sedimentary and Crystalline Pearls .
" By George Harley , M.D. , F.R.S* .
Received March 6 , \#151 ; Read March 28,1889 .
( Abstract .
) The author began by giving a sketch of what has hitherto been written on pearl structure , and pointed out that since Rondelet* threw out the idea that pearls are merely diseased concretions occurring in the Mollasca in the same way as other morbid calculi occur in the Mammalia , and R6aumur+ said they are misplaced pieces of organised shell , in the same way as loose cartilages in human joints are misplaced portions of the cartilaginous structures surrounding them , the opinions of all subsequent writers have but oscillated between these two antagonistic theories .
The two chief exponents of pearl structure in modern times\#151 ; Meckel in 1856 , J and MobiusS in 1858\#151 ; have ranged themselves on opposite sides ; the former advocating the views of Rondelet , the latter espousing those of his opponent Reaumur ; while Bronn , || a still more recent writer , has evidently a difficulty in deciding which of the theories is the correct one .
For , while the whole tenor of his remarks leads one to believe that he favours the shell-formation theory of Reaumur , he speaks of pearls as being lime concretions ( ) , and pearl-like calculi ( Perlen-artige Konkrementen ) , which he would be unlikely to do were he firmly convinced in the validity of Reaumur 's theory .
It is thus seen that it is still an unsettled question whether pearls belong to the animal or the mineral kingdom .
And no one who has worked at the subject , and knows its intricacy , can be the least surprised at our very best authorities being still unable to decide as to which of the two antagonistic theories is the best .
For , while there are undoubtedly many potent data in favour of each view , there are , at the same time , not a few grave objections in the way of a ready acceptance of either , as the following facts prove : 1 .
As was demonstrated by the exhibition of specimens , many pearls ( off-coloured ones ) of the sedimentary variety so closely resemble the carbonate of lime calculi met with in the Mammalia , and the carbonate of lime pisolite concretions from the mineral waters of Carlsbad , as to be absolutely undistinguishable from them , either by the naked eye or with the aid of a microscope .
* * Uni verse .
Aquatil .
Hist. , * 1554 .
f ' M6m .
de 1*Acad .
d. Sci. , ' 1717 .
J ' Mikrogeologie : T7eb8r die Concremenfcen in thierischen Organism us , Berlin , 1856 .
S ' Die Echten Perlen : ein Beitrag sir Luxus , Handels- und Naturgeschichte derselben , ' Hamburg , 1858 .
|| ' Weichthiere , * Leipzig , 1862 , " Perlen-Bildung , " p. 423 .
Mineral Matters in Sedimentary and Crystalline .
613 2 .
All these three kinds of concretions are formed in consecutive strata round a nucleus , and the strata are not only independent and separable from each other , but so loosely adherent that they can be shelled off like the different layers of an onion , leaving the subjacent layers so perfect that their enucleated portions constitute for themselves a perfect pearl , a perfect calculus , or a perfect pisolite concretion .
3 .
By the specimens exhibited , it was shown that the outward appearance of a pearl is in no case a reliable criterion of its internal structure , a dull-white sedimentary pearl appearing exactly the same under the microscope as a beautifully brilliant iridescent one ; while a black-coloured pearl may possess in its interior a snow-white pearl , another of the purest water may consist of nothing but a dirty greasy lump of river clay , being in reality merely thinly coated over with iridescent pearl substances .
4 .
Thin sections of sedimentary pearls , when viewed with a high power in a good light , have all more or less a granular appearance , in general best marked along the lines of stratification .
5 .
All sedimentary pearls have nuclei round which the concentric strata are regularly arranged , the nucleus being sometimes small , sometimes exceedingly large in proportion to the size of the pearl .
And , contrary to the opinion of De Filippi , * who asserts that the nucleus is invariably an Entozoon , it may consist of inorganic as well as of organic foreign material\#151 ; a pellet of clay , a particle of sand , a fragment of bone or of iron , a piece of seaweed , or even an entire animal .
In the second division of his subject , the author demonstrated by specimens that just as a sedimentary pearl closely resembles the sedimentary concretions met with in the mineral as well as in the animal world , so in like manner the crystalline form of pearl has its exact counterpart not alone in organic cholesterin gall-stones and carbonate of lime calculi , but in mineral nodules of wavellite rock and balls of iron pyrites .
As regards the nuclei of crystalline pearls , it was shown that in most instances they are identical with those met with in the sedimentary variety of pearls , though sometimes no nucleus whatever is to be met with even after prolonged search .
Consequently , the author inclines to believe that crystalline pearls in some instances begin ( as in the case of natural as well as artificially prepared calculi of the carbonate of lime , as Raineyt showed ) , by the mere aggregation and coalescence of mineral molecules .
The author also called attention to Bronn 's statement that pearls have often a crystalline nucleus , adducing evidence in favour of the .
* Muller 's ' A.rehiy , ' 1856 , p. 490 .
t ' The Formation of Bone and Shell Structures , ' 1858 , pp. 11,12 , and 35 .
614 Mineral Matters in Sedimentary and Crystalline Pearls .
view that the so-called crystalline nucleus is in many cases hut the centre , and therefore really an integral part of the pearl 's crystalline structure ; while , again , in other instances , the appearance is due to the section having been carried a little on one side of the pearl 's centre , and a consequent cutting across of some of the hexagonal basaltic-like prisms* producing in the centre of the pearl a tesselated crystalline appearance .
Bronn further asserts that in the centre of pearls are occasionally found cells containing calcspar , which has arrived there by a process of infiltration from without .
This appearance , the author thought , could be better explained on other grounds , and he exhibited the microscopic section of an oxalate of lime human urinary calculus with a crystalline centre , surrounded by a sedimentary zone exactly as is seen in some pearls , but where no idea of infiltration could possibly be entertained .
~ .
.* A good section of a crystalline pearl , while showing basaltic-like prisms radiating from the centre to the circumference , equally well shows that it , too , like the sedimentary variety , is formed in concentric layers of stratification .
In this respect it not only bears a marked similarity to the carbonate of lime concretions formed artificially in gum-water , but an equal analogy to the sulphate of baryta stalactites found in the caves of Derbyshire , where , of course , it is impossible to attribute the structural arrangement of their mineral matters to the influence of vital energy .
Microscopic sections : of crystalline pearls not alone convey the idea that the prisms branch and interlace with each other , but that they are in some instances of a fusiform shape , like the so-called fusiform cells Carpenter described in shell structures ; but these appearances , as the author demonstrated , are simply due to the section having cut the prisms across at different angles .
Moreover , the prisms are striated , but this striation , as well as the feathery frond-like appearance some of them present , does not , he thinks , exist in the mineral matter , but in the animal membrane which surrounds each individual prism , and which , as he previously showed , is an integral part of the pearl , amounting to 5'94 per cent , of its total weight* The feather-like appearance , he fancies , is merely due to a wrinkling of ' the dried animal matter .
It was further pointed out that each individual prism is made up of a number of brick-like segments .
Some with a high power appearing striated ( \amp ; ) , others granular ( a ) with knob-like bodies at their comers , and tubelike lines near their layers of stratification .
The discussion of the arrangement of the animal matter is deferred until after the mineral structure of hybrid , so-called cocoa-nut , and fossil pearls has been considered .
* " The Chemical Composition of Pearls , " * Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , p. 461 .
,

