II .
Part of a Letter from Mr Ralph Thoresby , F. R. S. concerning Pewter Money , Coined in Ireland , by the late King James .
Leeds , June 7 .
1704 .
Honoured Sir , THis brings you an account of a Curiosity that relates to the late King James 's Irish Moneys , which I am apt to think you never heard of , viz. a Crown piece of Pewter , inscribed Melioris tessera fati .
It was sent me by the Gentleman who found them in the Treasury at Dublin ; whose account is so particular and curious , that I will choose to give it you in his own words .
That King James , having turned all the Brass Guns of Ireland , and all the Brass and Copper Vessels of Protestants that he could seize , into Coin , viz. HalfCrowns somewhat bigger than an English Half-penny , Shillings broader , but not so thick as a Farthing , and Six pences in proportion ; it was ordered to pass current in all Payments , even in Bonds , and discharge of Judgments and Statutes ; ( insomuch that if Ages to come knew not the reason , they would admire to be told , that there was a time when men absconded , to avoid receiving their Debts , as many here did : ) But these stocks of Metal being all spent ( which he began to Coin in June 1689 .
and no Circulation to bring them back into his Treasury , he called in all that he had Coined , and the Half-Crowns , which before were stamped with a Face , were re-stamped with his Effigies on Horseback , and then paid out to those who brought them in , as Crowns ; and the smaller , Coins were melted down , and re-coyned again under the same Denominations , but with less Metal .
After the turn was served by this Stratagem , he had not wherewithal to import Copper and Brass ; but , for want of it , fell foul on the Pewter Dishes , &amp;c. And the piece I sent you of that Metal was Coined for five Shillings ; and the Proclamation to make it passable was as ready as the Stamps , for it was prepared : But King William passing the Boyne , prevented their Proclaiming it .
There was very little of it Coined , for our Government could meet with none of it ; until one day , rummaging all their Tinkerly Treasure , that they had left behind them in Dublin when they were routed , by accident I met with one Bag of 150 of those Pieces .
So that the Piece I sent you , altho it 's of no Intrinsic Value , it 's a Rarity ; and had I thought it would have been acceptable , I would have sent you a Specimen of every sort that he had Coined and Re-coyned here .
I am , Sir , Your very Humble Servant , Dublin , November .
the 27th , 1696 .
Tho. Putland .
This Valuable Curiosity has the same Inscription on both sides , as the common Brass Crowns ; but there is this Legend added upon the Rim of it , MELIORIS TESSERAFATIANNOREGNISEXT O.

