1871 .
] Mr. C. Tomlinson on Supersaturated Saline .
41 and west , but the angle for the east is less ; whilst for the horizontal-force lines both the angle and the distance are somewhat in excess in the east , though the difference is diminishing .
VI .
" On the Behaviour of Supersaturated Saline Solutions when exposed to the Open Air .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received July 26 , 1871 .
It is a remarkable proof of the difference between the air of a room and that of a field or garden in the country , that supersaturated saline solutions , which crystallize the moment they are uncovered in a room , may be kept uncovered in an open space during many hours without crystallizing .
During the last three years I have made many experiments to confirm this conclusion in the little garden at the back of my house at Highgate .
I have no doubt that in a more open space further in the country the results would have been more perfect ; but still I venture to think they are sufficiently striking to merit a place in the * Proceedings/ The following were conducted during the spring of the present year .
A solution of two parts of sodic sulphate and one part of water was boiled and filtered into 3- and 4-ounce flasks , of which the opening of the short cylindrical neck is just three-quarters of an inch .
The filtered solutions were reboiled and the flasks covered with watch-glasses .
One flask was placed on a stool in the middle of a gravel-walk and the watch-glass removed .
I now proceed to quote from my note-book some results iu the order of time , and then to summarize them .
1871 , March 17 .
Put out flask containing cold solution at 12.30 p.m. ; temp. 56 ' Fahr. ; clouds , and afterwards sun , 60 ' and upwards .
At 2.50 , therm. 50 ' .
At 4.30 found the solution solid , and upon it a speck of soot which had evidently acted as a nucleus .
At 5.30 put out flask ; temp. 43 ' , with slight wind ; 6.30 , 41 ' ; 7.30 , 42 ' , with a good deposit of the seven-atom salt .
At 9 , temp. 40 ' , and deposit much increased .
At 11 , solution solid , and the seven-atom deposit chalky white .
March 18 .
2.15 , put out flask and uncovered it under clear sky .
At 4 , temp. 57 ' , fine crop of crystals , evidently due to evaporation , which was so powerful that a round patch immediately below the opening of the neck was white and pulverulent from the formation of anhydrous salt .
In this case the crystallization took place , as in the case of a saturated solution , in an open dish , only much more quickly , on account of the much larger quantity of salt in the supersaturated solution .
There was no formation of the seven-watered salt* .
* With reference to some of the cases of crystallization given in my paper " On Supersaturated Saline Solutions , Part II .
" ( Phil. Trans. 1871 , p. 51 ) , Professor Stokes 42 Mr. C. Tomlinson on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
[ Nov. 23 , The same flask was reboiled and left to cool during an hour .
It was put out at 5.15 ; temp. 55 ' , with clouds ; at 6 , temp. 47J ' ; at 6.35 , temp. 45 ' .
At 7.15 the seven-watered salt was forming and heat-currents ascending ; cloudy .
At 9 , the seven-atom salt was much increased in quantity ; temp. 45 ' .
At 9.45 , the solution solid , the nuclear action directly under the mouth of the flask .
March 19 .
Added a small quantity of water to supply waste from evaporation and reboiled the same flask .
When cold , put the flask out at 5 p.m. At 6.30 brought it back into room , and it crystallized within two or three minutes .
Reboiled this flask and put it uncovered in the garden to cool at 6.35 .
At 8.45 foggy , and temp. 43 ' .
'Shook the solution ; it was very viscous , but did not crystallize .
At 9.30 abundant deposit of moisture : at 10.30 thick mist , temp. 41S ' ; no crystallization .
March 20 .
At 7 a.m. found a considerable deposit of the seven-watered salt , much of it finely crystallized ; flask and stool very wet ; temp. 40 ' .
Took the flask indoors , and after a few minutes the solution crystallized and the seven-atom salt became opaque .
There was a speck of soot on the solution , but it lay so loosely that it had evidently not disturbed the surface-tension of the solution .
Three flasks were put out in the garden and uncovered .
One crystallized from the action of a speck ; a second during the day deposited some seven-watered salt and then crystallized by evaporation , producing some very fine crystals of the ten-watered salt with dihedral summits .
These crystals , although so fine , were produced rapidly ( as under the action of films ) , as was evident from phenomena which may often be seen in the sudden crystallization of supersaturated solutions , namely , the heat liberated in the passage of the liquid to the solid state volatilizes a portion of the water of the solution , and the vapour rising upwards towards the neck condenses on the inner surface of the flask ; but the ring of glass just above the solidified solution is rendered too warm to condense the vapour , so that the flask presents the curious appearance of salt at the bottom in a chalky white deposit covered by a layer of crystals or by an opalescent layer ; then comes a zone of clear glass surmounted by a wide deposit of condensed vapour .
The heat thus given out during the solidification of supersaturated saline solutions may vary from 10 ' or 20 ' to 100 ' F. The third flask put out under this date crystallized some hours later by evaporation .
April 25 .
Flask out all night .
This morning found it covered with dew , some of which trickled down into the solution without acting as a nucleus .
April 27 .
Two flasks put out , and after a few hours rain came on and was kind enough to suggest that the large crystals might be due to evaporation .
Such was certainly the case in some of these garden experiments .
1871 .
] Mr. C. Tomlinson on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
43 both the solutions crystallized .
Heated the flasks over a spirit-lamp , and passed the solutions through a filter , when in each case a minute black speck , which had acted as a nucleus , was left on the filter .
Two flasks that had been standing some time on the window-ledge , each containing a deposit of the seven-watered salt , were put out during the heavy rain of a thunder-storm and uncovered .
The drops repeatedly entered the flasks , splashing up the solution ; but they did not act as nuclei .
The flasks were thus exposed during six hours , when one of them was brought in and placed on the table ; it immediately became solid .
After the storm , and while the sun was shining , snipped off some pieces from some young leaves of the currant- and gooseberry-bush ; they did not act as nuclei , even when shaken up in the solution .
The upper surfaces of the leaves had been washed in the rain , but the under surfaces were dry .
The scissors used were washed in spirit , and several cuttings made in order still further to clean the blades , before any of the pieces were allowed to fall into the flask .
The conclusions which I think myself justified in drawing from these and similar experiments are the following:\#151 ; 1 .
That a highly supersaturated solution of sodic sulphate may be exposed to the open air of the country in an uncovered flask and in cloudy weather for from twelve to twenty hours without any formation of the ordinary ten-watered crystals .
2 .
That if the temperature fall to about 40 ' Fahr. and under , the modified seven-watered salt is formed at the bottom of the solution just as in covered vessels .
3 .
That if the exposed solution suddenly crystallize into a closely packed mass of needles , a nucleus may always be found in the form of an insect , a speck of soot , a black point of carbon , \amp ; c. 4 .
That if during the exposure rain comes on , the solution generally crystallizes suddenly , in consequence of an active nucleus being brought down ; but if the flask be put out during heavy rain , when we may suppose all the solid nuclei to have been brought down , the rain-drops , now quite clean , fall into the solution without any nuclear action .
5 .
That the jmung and newly sprouted leaves of trees , such as those of gooseberry- and currant-bushes , have no nuclear action .
6 .
That in clear cloudless weather , when the force of evaporation is strong , the solutions , after some hours ' exposure , produce fine groups of crystals of the ten-atom salt , just as a saturated solution would do if left to evaporate slowly in an open dish .
7 .
That if the solution , after being exposed to the open air , be brought into a room , it crystallizes immediately under the action of aerial nuclei .
Supersaturated solutions of Epsom salts and of alum were similarly exposed , and the results were in harmony with the above conclusions .
The following are a few cases .
44 Mr. C. Tomlinson on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
[ Nov. 23 , I March 20 , 1871 .
Magnesic sulphate four parts , water two and a half parts ; boiled and filtered into three small flasks , and at 7.10 p.m. exposed two of them in the garden ; placed the third ( covered ) in the room on the window-ledge in contact with the glass pane .
At 8.10 , temp. 40 ' , no change : 9.15 , temp. 40 ' , with much dew ; one solution solid , the other unchanged : 10 , temp. 39 ' , the flask very wet with dew ; no change .
21st , 8 a.m. , temp. 35 ' , wet fog , no change ; brought the flask indoors and uncovered the one in window ; they became solid in less than half an hour .
Two of the flasks were reboiled and united , so that the globe of the flask was quite filled .
Put this into the garden at 4 p.m. , temp. 55 ' .
At 6 , temp. 431 ' ; at 8 , temp. 39\#163 ; ' ; at 10.3Q* temp. 35 ' , with clear sky .
22nd , at 8 a.m. , temp. 31 ' , no change ; at 10 the contents of flask were found in a solid state with a speck of soot on the surface .
Potash-alum three parts , water two parts ; boiled and filtered into three flasks .
When cold , put one flask in the garden and took off watch-glass .
1 Time 5.30 , temp. 46 ' .
At 6 , temp. 43| ' , and the sky very clear .
At 6.35 , no change ; temp. 40^ ' ; removed the watch-glass from the flask in-1 doors , and the solution crystallized immediately .
At 8 the solution in the i garden crystallized , apparently from evaporation ; temp. 39S ' .
The results obtained by exposure to the open air of highly supersaturated I solutions of sodic acetate are not in harmony with the above , on account of I the tendency of such solutions , when left to repose , to arrange themselves I into layers of different density ; so that while the lower part of the solu-1 tion becomes more supersaturated , the upper part becomes less so .
By 1 keeping such a solution during some weeks in a long test-tube plugged with 1 cotton-wool , the upper part of the solution is scarcely more than saturated , I so that it may be touched with an unclean wire without crystallizing , and f the wire may be passed about one-third down the tube before the solution 1 becomes sensitive to the action of a solid nucleus .
But when once the j crystallization is started , the whole contents of the tube become solid , and I the tube may be inverted without the escape of any liquid .
For these garden experiments a solution of four parts sodic acetate 1 to one part of water was boiled and filtered into two small flasks , which ] had been previously washed with spirits of wine , rinsed with water , and j then with a little acetic acid .
March 18 .
At 8 p.m. the flasks were exposed in the garden ; at 11.15 1 the temp , was 35 ' .
On the 19th , at 8.30 a.m. , after being left out all night , both the solutions were liquid , but very viscous .
At ' 10.50 the I flasks were brought into.a room and placed on the mantle-shelf , where they remained all that day as well as the next .
On the 21st they were still liquid ; one of them was touched with the end of a wooden penholder , and it at once became solid ; the other flask was left uncovered on the shelf until the 24th before it became solid .
On the 21st the solution that was touched with the nucleus was reboiled with the addition of half an ounce t ]87i ] , Mr. W. Huggins on the Spectrum of Encke 's Comet .
45 ^ 0f Watcr and filtered into two flasks .
When cold , one of these was put it out at 8.35 .
At 10.30 the temperature was 35 ' , and next morning at I 8am 31 ' .
The flask was now brought in and left on the mantle-shelf , | where it remained some days exposed to dust , and it crystallized from loss ^ of water by evaporation .
P.S. August 17 , 1871.\#151 ; I may mention that the suggestion made \#187 ; above , that in an open space far from houses the results would be still | more perfect , has been realized by exposing in such a space supersaturated i solutions of sodic sulphate and of alum in small shallow vessels , quite full , 5 to the action of a strong wind under a cloudy sky , and they did not ciys-i tallize during half an hour 's exposure ; but the moment they were touched I with the finger they became solid .
Similar solutions were exposed in small open beakers in an open space during many hours , and at a tempe-I rature of about 40 ' F. , without crystallizing .
VII , " Note on the Spectrum of Encke 's Comet .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , V.P.R.S. Received November 16 , 1871 .
I give the following observations of Encke 's comet , and of the spectrum of its light , in the order of the dates of the evenings on which they were made .
Oct 17 .
The comet presented the appearance of a nearly circular faint nebulosity , in which no condensation could be certainly distinguished .
Nov. 7 .
By this time an important change had taken place in the appearance of the comet .
There was now a strong condensation of light towards the east .
The more condensed part of the comet , which was fan-shaped , was bounded on the eastern side by a tolerably defined contour , which approached in form to a parabolic curve .
Surrounding this brighter portion of the comet was a much fainter nebulosity , of which the boundary on the eastern side appeared to form a line at right angles to the axis of the comet .
I suspected a very minute stellar nucleus just within the eastern extremity of the brighter condensed part , and to a small extent north of the comet 's axis .
Nov. 8 .
The description given yesterday is applicable to the comet tonight .
The brighter part appears more defined and in stronger contrast to the fainter outlying nebulosity .
The nucleus is now visible with certainty .
On the western preceding side of the comet , the side towards the sun , the cometary light becomes gradually fainter and more extended until it is lost to view .
On this evening the light of the comet was examined by the spectroscope .
The larger part of the light was resolved by the prism into a bright band in the green part of the spectrum .
The band was defined at

