" Note on an indication of depth of Primaeval Seas , afforded by the remains of colour in Fossil Testacea .
" By EDWARD FORBES , F.R.S. , Pres. G.S. &amp;c. Received March 22,1854 .
When engaged in the investigation of the bathymetrical distribution of existing mollusks , the author found that not only did the colour of their shells cease to be strongly marked at considerable depths , but also that well-defined patterns were , with very few and slight exceptions , presented only by testacea inhabiting the littoral , circumittoral and median zones .
In the Mediterranean only one in eighteen of the shells taken from below 100 fathoms exhibited any markings of colour , and even the few that did so , were questionable inhabitants of those depths .
Between 35 and 55 fathoms , the proportion of marked to plain shells was rather less than one in three , and between the sea-margin and 2 fathoms the striped or mottled species exceeded one-half of the total number .
In our own seas the author observes that testacea taken from below 100 fathoms , even when they were individuals of species vividly striped or banded in shallower zones , are quite white or colourless .
Between 60 and 80 fathoms , striping and banding are rarely presented by our shells , especially in the northern provinces ; and from 50 fathoms shallow-wards , colours and patterns are well marked .
The relation of these arrangements of colour to the degrees of light penetrating the different zones of depth , is a subject well worthy of minute inquiry , and has not yet been investigated by natural philosophers .
The purpose in this brief notice is not , however , to pursue this kind of research , but to put on record an application of our knowledge of the fact that vivid patterns are not presented by testacea living below certain depths , to the indication of the depth , within certain limits , of palaeozoic seas , through an examination of the traces of colour afforded by fossil remains of testacea .
Although their original colour is very rarely exhibited by fossil shells , occasionally we meet with specimens in which , owing probably to organic differences in the minute structure of the coloured and colourless portions of the shell , the pattern of the original painting is clearly distinguished from the ground tint .
Not a few examples are found in Mesozoic as well as in Tertiary strata , but in all the instances on record , the association of species , mostly closely allied to existing types , and the habits of the animals of the genera to which they belong , are such as to prevent our having much difficulty about ascertaining the probable bathymetrical zone of the sea in which they lived .
But in palaeozoic strata the general assemblage of articulate , molluscan and radiate forms is so different from any now existing with which we can compare it , and so few species of generic types still remaining are presented for our guidance , that in many instances we can scarcely venture to infer with safety the original bathymetrical zone of a deposit from its fossil contents .
Consequently any fact that will help us in elucidating this point becomes of considerable importance .
Traces of colouring are rarely presented by palaeozoic fossils , and the author knows of few examples in which they have been noticed .
Professor Phillips , in his 'Geology of Yorkshire , ' represents the carboniferous species , Pleurotomaria flammigera ( i. e. carinata ) and conica , as marked with colour , and Sowerby has figured such markings in P. carinata and P. rotundata .
In the excellent monograph of the carboniferous fossils of Belgium , by Professor De Koninck of Liege , indications of pattern-colouring are faintly shown in the figures of Solarium pentangulatum , and distinctly in those of Pleurotomaria carinata and Patella solaris .
In the cabinets of the Geological Survey of Great Britain are some finely-preserved fossils from the carboniferous limestone of Parkhill , near Longnor in Derbyshire .
Among these are several that present unmistakeable pattern-markings , evidently derived from the original colouring .
They arePleurotomaria carinata and conica , showing wavy blotches , resembling the colouring of many recent Trochidze .
An undescribed Trochus , showing a spiral band of colour .
Metoptoma pileus , and Patella ?
retrorsa , both with radiating stripes , such as are presented by numerous existing Patellide .
Natica plicistria , with broad mottled bands .
Aviculo-pecten , a large unnamed species , with spotty markings on the ribs in the manner of many existing Pectines .
Aviculo-pecten sublobatus , Ph. ?
Beautifully marked with radiating , well-defined stripes , varying in each individual , and resembling the patterns presented by those recent Aviculce that inhabit shallows and moderate depths .
Aviculo-pecten intercostatus and elongatus also exhibit markings .
Spirifer decorus and Orthis resupinata , show fine radiating white lines .
Terebratula hastata , with radiating stripes .
The analogy of any existing forms that can be compared with those enumerated , would lead to the conclusion that the markings in these instances are characteristic of mollusks living in a less depth of water than 50 fathoms .
In the case of the Terebratula , which belongs to a genus the majority of whose living representatives inhabit deep water , it may be noticed that all the living species exhibiting striped shells are exceptions to the rule , and come from shallow water .
There are many circumstances which warrant us to suspect that the carboniferous mountain limestone of most regions was a deposit in shallow water .
The facts now adduced materially strengthen this inference .
In the British Museum there is a beautifully spotted example of a Devonian Terebratula , brought by Sir John Richardson from Boreal America .
Specimens of the Turbo rupestris , from the Lower Silurian Limestone of the Chair of Kildare near Dublin , exhibit appearances that seem to indicate spiral bands of colour .

