]\gt ; 1881 .
] On certain Geometrical .
On certain Geometrical Theorems .
No. 1 By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.R.S. Received November 12 , 1881 .
( 1 .
) The following proof of the equation to a circle inscribed in a triangle , expressed in trilinear -ordinates , is very short and simple .
Let a , be the sides of the triangle , the opposite angles , and let be the equation to an inscribed conic .
Then when this conic is a circle , the centre is given by the equations , and the equat on to the line joining the centre , to the point where touches the conic , that is to the point , is Now , when the collic is a , this line must be perpendicular to ; hence from the condition two straight lines may be perpen ' icular to each other ( Salmon , " " Conic Sections 6th edition , Art .
61 ) , or which gives for the required circle ( 2 .
) The following theorem is given by Dr. Salmon in his " " Higher Plane Curves\ldquo ; : \mdash ; If through any point of inflexion A in a curve of the third order there be drawn three right lines meeting the curve in , df , , then every curve of the third degree through the seven points will have A for a point of inflexion .
It follows from this that any curve of the third degree described the nine points of inflexion of a cubic will have those points as points of flexion .
Dr. Salmon has given a geometrical proof of this theorem , and this is the only demonstration I have ever seen .
I have , therefore , obtained the following analytical proof , which possesses , I think , considerable beauty .
Mr. W. H. L. Russell .
Let A be the origin , Adf the axis of , the axis of .
Leb be the equation to the equation to the equation to the equation to the equation to be , then we may find the equation to ; and similarly the equation to In this way it will easily be seen that the six points , , are completely determined , and consequently the equation to a curve of the third degree passing through them ( see Salmon , " " Higher Plane Curves Art .
162 ) is ab . .
be .
But since , ce pass through the origin , and the equation becomes ab .
cd . .
be . .
ad .
bf .
and consequently writing down ab , , be , , ce , as given above , we have as the equation of the required cubic\mdash ; ; differentiating this equation , and pntting to determine the value of at the origin , we have Differentiating again , and putting , since the On certain Geometrical Theorems .
is to be a point of inflexion , we shall have\mdash ; or substituting for , and dividing by , we have\mdash ; Again substituting for , and reducing , we obtain the equation Hence , if vanish , origin will be a point of in{lexion , whatever values we give to and ; hence the theorem is true .
From any point six ents can be drawn to a curve of the third order ; two of these are at right angles to one another , determine the locus of the point .
Substitute for in the general equation of the cubic arrange the terms of the resulting equation according to powers of ( x ) and form the discriminant , equate the discriminant to zero , and we shall have an equation of the form\mdash ; Let 214 On certain Geometrical Theorems .
Since two of the tangents are at right angles to each other , we shall have , and let .
Then substituting , we have the following equations : \mdash ; . . .
( 1 ) , 4 , ( 2 ) , .
( 5 ) , ( 3 ) , ( 6 ) .
From these equations we obtain at once\mdash ; Hence we have , substituting in ( 4 ) ( 7 ) .
Also substituting in ( 3 ) ( 8 ) .
From and ( 8 ) easily obtain two equations of the form\mdash ; then the eliminant is at once seen to be\mdash ; \mdash ; AB ' the equation to the required locus .
I have not thought it necessary to write down the values of \amp ; c. , as they are obtained by rules perfectly well knolvn .
Note by W. SPOTTISWOODE , P.R.S. The second theorem in the foregoing paper follows also as an immediate consequence of a formula given by Cayley in his " " Seventl ] Memoir on Quantics\ldquo ; Phil. Trans 1861 , p. 286 ) .
If represent the cubic and HUE its Hessian , then , as is well known , HUE passes thr:ough the points of inflexion of U. Also , the function will represent an arbitrary curve of the third degree passing through the same points ; and , on tfle same principle as before , its Hessian will pass through its points of inflexion .
Now the formula in question 1881 .
Prof. J. C. Malet .
On a Class of Inva ?
ts .
But this equation is satisfied by ; consequently the equations both satisfied by the relations Hence the theorem given in the text .
VI .
On a Class of Invariants JOHN C. MALET , M.A. , Professor of Mathematics , Queen 's College , Cork .
Communicated by Professor CAYLEY , LL. D. , F.R.S. Beceived December 14 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is concerned kinds of functions of the coefficients of Linear Differential Equations , which have certain invariant properties .
In the first parb of the paper it is shown that every Linear Differential Equation possesses .
certain number of functions of the coefficients which are unaltered by the dependent variable to / ' where is any given function of , the independent val'iable .
These functions bear remarkable analogies to functions of the differences of the roots of ordinary algebraic equations , and many problems , provided they involve only the ratios of the solutions of the differential equation , may be solved in terms of them ; for example , the condition that two solutions and of a linear diiferential equation of the third order should be connected by the reIation is expressed in terms of two such functions of the coefficients of the equation .
This problem is analogous to that of finding the discriminanb of an algebraic cubic .
The second part of the paper is concerning functions of the coefficients of Linear Differential Equations which are unaltered by of the independent variable , and the theory of these functions is applied to the solutions of problems involving only relations among the solutions of the equation without the independent variable .
In this part of the paper it is shown how to form the condition that the three soIutions of a linear differential equation of the third order should be connected by the relation , which relation , involving only ratios of the solutions , and not containing the independent variable , can be expressed in terms of either class of the functions of the coefficients considered in the paper ; these two methods of writing the condition are accordingly given . .
XXXIIT .

