172 Fossil Reptilia .
Metallurgy of Bismuth .
[ Nov. 24 , II .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part III .
On Parts of the Skeleton of a Mammal from Triassic Rocks of Klipfontein , Fraserberg , South Africa ( Th Seeley ) , illustrating the Reptilian Inheritance in the Mammalian Hand .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. , Professor of Geography in King 's College , London .
Received October 24 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The author describes a slab showing impressions of the fore-limb and some other bones of the skeleton , which indicate a plantigrade animal as large as a wolverine .
Its general affinities are with flesheating types .
The humerus approximates to that of Thy]acinus .
The ulna and radius at their proximal ends are like those of Lemuroids and Carnivores , but the forms of the distal articulations are different .
The carpus appears to include three central bones .
Part of one of the digits appears to have been lost and renewed .
The animal is regarded as a primitive type which cannot be placed in any ordinal group which has been defined .
1II .
" Further Contributions to the Metallurgy of Bismuth .
" By Edward Matthey , F.S.A. , F.C.S. , Assoc. Roy .
Sell .
Mines .
Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , P.R.S. Received October 20 , 1887 .
S 3 .
Bismuth : its Separation from Copper.\#151 ; In the paper upon this interesting metal , which I had the honour of bringing under the notice of the Royal Society in February last , I referred to the difficulties with which the treatment of bismuth is surrounded when associated with other metals\#151 ; by any very rapid or comprehensive process .
During the conduct of my operations in the reduction of bismuth from its ores , and its subsequent refining , I have frequently found this metal to contain a small proportion of copper , an element most detrimental even in small traces , and hitherto I believe , only eliminated by a wet process , costly in practice and tedious in operation .
It is necessary by such method to dissolve up the whole of the alloy and precipitate the bismuth in the usual manner\#151 ; a bulky operation , and one requiring a considerable amount of time .
It became therefore advisable , in order to treat cupreous bismuth rapidly and upon a commercial scale , to effect this separation , if possible , by means of a dry process .
In this I have succeeded .

