On the Quantity and Velocity of the Solar Motion .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read February 27 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 205 .
] The present paper is a continuation of that communicated to the Society by Dr. Herschel last year , in which lie considered the direction of the solar motion : he now proceeds to consider the quantity and velocity of that motion ; and as , in the former paper , the proper motions , when reduced to one direction , were called quantities , to distinguish them from the velocities required in the moving stars to produce those motions , so also in the present inquiry , it will , the author says , be necessary to keep up the same distinction with respect to the velocity of the solar motion .
To determine this , we ought to have in view the real motion of every star whose apparent motion we know ; but as trials with a number of stars would be very inconvenient , Dr. Herschel makes use only of the six stars mentioned in his former paper , in laying down the method followed with all the rest .
He first considers the proportional distance of the stars ; for till this is fixed upon , neither the parallactic nor the real motion of a star can , he says , be ascertained .
And as it is not sufficiently satisfactory to divide the stars into a few magnitudes , and suppose these tQ represent their relative distances , he expresses the relative brightness of the six stars already alluded to , according to the notation formerly used by him for that purpose ; and from that introduces , by using fractional distinctions , a more minute subdivision than has been commonly admitted .
He then proposes the following arrangement , as expressing their proportional distance:-Sirius 1P00 , Arcturus 1 -20 , Capella 1-25 , Lyra 1-30 , Aldebaran 1-40 , Procyon 1-40 .
Our author next considers the effect of the increase and , decrease of the solar motion , and the conditions to be observed in the investigation of its quantity .
He gives a table , calculated with a view to show that an increase or decrease of the solar motion will have a contrary effect upon the required real motion of different stars : and deduces from it , that a certain equalization , or approach to equality , may be obtained between the motion of the stars , or between that of the sun and any one of them selected for that purpose .
These calculated velocities , he says , are such as would be true , if the stars were at the assumed distances , and if their real motions were performed in lines at right angles to the visual ray ; but if the stars do not move in that direction , we should still certainly have the minimum of their velocities : and it must be allowed to be a considerable point gained if we could show what is likely to be the least velocity of the solar motion .
Besides , if the velocities of any two stars are equalised when their motions are supposed to be perpendicular to the visual ray , they will be as much so when they make any other given angle with it ; and it is the equalization , not the quantity of the velocities , that is required .
It is , Dr. Herschel says , evident , that either a certain mean rate , or a middle rank , should be assigned to the motion of the sun , unless very sufficient reasons should induce us to depart from this condition ; and he thinks it most eligible to prefer the latter ; but says , that nearly the same result will be obtained from either of the methods .
He adds , that if we can at the same time bring the sidereal motions to a greater equality among each other , it will be a very proper secondary consideration .
The necessary calculations for investigating the solar motion may , our author says , be divided into two classes : the first of these will remain unaltered , whatever may be the solar motion under examination ; while the other must be adjusted to every change that may be required .
The first will contain the angular quantity of the observed or apparent motion ; its direction with the parallel of the star ; its direction with the parallactic motion ; and its velocity : the second , or changeable part , will consist of the angular quantity of the real motion ; the parallactic direction of this motion ; and its velocity .
A table containing the result of the calculations relating to the permanent quantities of 36 stars is now given : there are also various figures illustrating the said calculations : upon these , various remarks are made , which cannot be well understood without a view of the figures .
We shall only observe , that several stars of the first magnitude appear to have less velocity than many which are much smaller .
This , Dr. Herschel thinks , may be explained , if a solar motion is introduced ; as the parallax arising from that cause will completely account for such a singular circumstance .
He adds , that if the foregoing argument proves the expediency of admitting a solar motion , the direction of that motion is no less evidently pointed out to be in opposition to the motion of Arcturus .
By equalizing the velocities of the sun and a Orionis , the solar motion appears to be l"-266 .
On the other hand , by a similar calculation of the velocities of Pollux and the Sun , those velocities will be equalised by a solar motion of O'"967 .
These seem to be the limits of the solar motion , upon the supposition of its holding a middle rank among the sidereal velocities ; and , by a mean of them , we may have the rank of the solar motion true to less than 0"'15 .
Upon this supposition , a table of the changeable quantities above mentioned is given , and also figures illustrating them .
Dr. Herschel , after observing that , if we except only ten of the above-mentioned stars , all the rest appear to be actuated by the same influence , and , like the sun , to direct their motions towards the same part of the heavens , proceeds to examine the causes of this marked singularity in their direction ; which , he says , may arise either from their mutual gravitation towards each other , or from an original projectile force impressed upon them .
As both these causes are known to act on all the bodies belonging to the solar system , they may reasonably be supposed to exert their influence likewise on the stars : and that this is really the case , our author endeavours to show by various arguments , which our limits necessarily oblige us to omit .
He shows that the motions of the stars already mentioned cannot be accounted for by the mutual gravitation of neighbouring stars towards each other , or by a periodical binal revolution of them about a centre of gravity ; but that we ought rather to have recourse to some far distant centre of attraction ; which centre may be either a single body of great magnitude ; or it may be produced by the joint attraction of a great number of stars united into one condensed group ; or , lastly , it may be formed by the union of several groups , which , he says , will create a still more powerful centre of gravitation .
Dr. Herschel now proceeds to the determination of the quantity and velocity of the solar motion : and , calculating upon the principles laid down in the course of the present paper , assuming , as we have already stated , that the solar motion holds a middle rank among the sidereal velocities , it appears that we have sufficient reason to fix upon the quantities of the solar motion to be such as , by an eye placed at right angles to its direction , and at the distance of Sirius from us , would be seen to describe annually an arch of 1'116992 of a degree ; and its velocity , till we are acquainted with the real distance of the fore-mentioned star , can therefore only be expressed by the proportional number of 1116992 .
Before he concludes , our author remarks , that the middle rank among the sidereal velocities , which he has assigned to the sun , agrees sufficiently with the phenomena that were to be explained .
Thus the apparent velocities of Arcturus and Aldebaran , without a solar motion , are to each other as 208 to 12 ; but , according to the assumed solar motion , it appears , that when the deception arising from the parallactic effect is removed , these velocities are to each other only as 179 to 85 , or 2 to 1 .
And although Arcturus still remains a star which moves with great velocity , yet it has been shown , in the eleventh table , that we have three or four stars with nearly as much motion , and five with more .
The solar motion also removes the deception by which the motion of a star , of the consequence of a Orionis , is so concealed as hardly to show any velocity ; whereas , by computation , we find that it really moves at a rate which is fully equal to the motion of the sun .
It will now be found , Dr. Herschel says , that we are within the reach of a link of the chain which connects the principles of the solar and sidereal motions with those that are the cause of orbitual ones : the probable motions of the sun and of the stars in orbits consequently becomes a subject that may receive the assistance of arguments supported by observations .
And he further observes , that what he has said in a former paper , where the sun is placed among the insulated stars , does not contradict the present idea of its forming a part of a very extensive system .
The insulation there ascribed .
to the sun relates merely to a supposed binary combination with some neighbouring star ; and it has been already proved , by the example of Arcturus , that the solar motion cannot be occasioned , or accounted for , by a periodical revolution of the sun and the above , or any other star , about their common centre of gravity .

