The Croonian Lecture .
On the Irritability of Nerves .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read Nov. 20 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 1 .
] Its object is principally to investigate the opinion hitherto entertained , that the nerves may be considered as chords that have no power of contraction within themselves , but only serve as a medium by means of which the influence of the brain may be communicated to the muscles , and the impressions made upon the different parts of the body may be conveyed to the brain .
After pointing out the extreme difficulty of such an inquiry , owing to the few opportunities that offer for investigating the real state of the nerves in the living body , Mr. Home intimates that he resolved to avail himself of every opportunity that might offer of any operation in surgery performed upon nerves , either in a healthy state , or under the influence of disease , in order to elucidate this intricate point , without neglecting certain experiments he thought he could devise upon animal bodies , before they are wholly deprived of life .
r'he first case , which explains some circumstances respecting the actions of the nerves when under the influence of disease , was that of a middle-aged person , who , having hurt his thumb by a fall , experienced long after an occasional swelling and convulsions in that part , attended with spasms , which at times extended in the direct course of the trunks of the radial nerve up to the head , the patient being at times afflicted with absolute insensibility .
In order to put a stop to the progress of this irritation , which seemed to constitute the disease , it was proposed to divide the nerve as it passes from under the annular ligament of the wrist .
This operation was accordingly performed , but not altogether with the desired success , owing probably to the wound not healing by the first intention .
Among several singular circumstances in this case , we find also a retraction which took place in the cut ends of the nerve at the time of the operation ; and the first idea that suggested itself , was to endeavour to ascertain whether this effect -arose from an increase of a natural action in the nerves , or of one newly acquired and entirely produced by the disease .
Various experiments were accordingly made on the cutaneous nerves of rabbits , and the phrenic nerve of horses immediately after they were killed .
The results were , that a considerable retraction always took place , and that any action the nerves are capable of exciting is nearly as strong after apparent death has taken place from a violence committed upon the brain ( the horses having been killed by such means ) , as while the animal is in perfect health .
As it might be suspected that the cellular membrane is the agent by which this retraction of the divided nerves is produced , further experiments were made in such a way as to prevent any other surrounding part from acting upon the nerve .
Other experiments were also attempted , with a view to determine whether the power of contraction in a nerve continues for any length of time after apparent death has taken place , and also to ascertain what proportion of elasticity may be possessed by the nerves .
The results were , -1 .
That in all cases the nerves of an animal in health are capable of retracting themselves when divided , and that this effect is entirely independent of the parts by which they are surrounded .
2 .
That this contraction takes place in the nervous fibres themselves , and is independent of the brain from which they originate , and the muscles and other parts in which they terminate .
3 .
That the contracted nerve exhibits to the eye an appearance of contraction ( a serpentine or undulated direction ) , which does not appear when the nerve is in a relaxed state .
As the nerves are so easily influenced by electricity in exciting the muscles to action , it naturally suggested itself that some further information might be obtained in the present investigation , by means of experiments made upon the nerves by the electric fluid .
From a number that were made for the purpose , it appeared that when the nerve had been previously contracted in consequence of being divided , no increase of that contraction was produced by the electric fluid , nor was any sensible effect perceived when the nerve had not been previously irritated .
During this investigation a singular case occurred , from which it appears that electricity is capable of depriving a nerve of all its functions for a certain time , without destroying them entirely .
A young woman , while in the act of bolting the window-shutter , was struck across the eyes by lightning , and a second flash struck her a few minutes after , while she was rubbing her eyes with her hand having a thimble on one of the fingers .
This deprived her of sight for ten days , after which , having had a severe hysterical paroxysm , her vision returned , but convulsive and hysterical sensations still remained , from which she was not relieved till six weeks after .
This case , which the author conceives to be a proof that the electric fluid is capable of suspending the functions of the optic nerve without altogether destroying them , suggested the idea of some further experiments , with a view to ascertain whether electricity could be so applied , by artificial means , as to destroy the power of contraction possessed by nerves .
The effects seemed to prove the negative ; but it is owned these experiments were made under circumstances which did not inspire much confidence .
It appears , in general , that these experiments , and the observations deduced from them , materially illustrate an action or power inherent in the nervous chords , capable of producing the symptoms which occurred in the cases here related ; and that the once favourite hypothesis of a nervous fluid , does not give a satisfactory solution of those nervous agitations , which only proceed for some way in the course of a nerve , and are there arrested without being allowed to proceed to the brain .
The disorder known by the name Tic Douloureux , is given as an example of the manner in which spasmodic tremors are propagated along the nerves .
And a case of a locked jaw occasioned by an injury to the thumb , is lastly mentioned , which corroborates all that has been said concerning the first case mentioned in this paper .

