92 Prof. E. Hull .
On a possible [ May 16 , May 16 , 1889 .
Professor G. G\ STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On a possible Geological Origin of Terrestrial Magnetism .
" By Edward Hull , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Director of the Geological Survey of Ireland .
Received April 30 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) The author commenced by pointing ont that the origin and cause of terrestrial magnetism were still subjects of controversy amongst physicists , and this paper was intended to show that the earth itself contains within its crust a source to which these phenomena may be traced , as hinted at by Gilbert , Biot , and others ; though owing to the want of evidence regarding the physical structure of our globe in the time of these observers , they were unable to identify the supposed earth 's internal magnet .
The author then proceeded to show cause for believing that there exists beneath the crust an outer and inner envelope or " magma , " the former less dense and highly silicated , the latter basic and rich in magnetic iron-ore .
This view was in accordance with those of Durocher , Prestwich , Fisher , and many other geologists .
The composition of this inner magma , and the condition in which the magnetic iron-ore exists were then discussed , and it was shown that it probably exists under the form of numerous small crystals with a polar arrangement .
Each little crystal being itself a magnet , and having crystallised out from the magma while this latter was in a viscous condition , the crystalline grains would necessarily assume a polar arrangement which would be one of equilibrium .
Basalt might be taken as the typical rock of this magma .
The thickness and depth of the magnetic magma beneath the surface of the globe were then discussed , and while admitting that it was impossible to come to any close determination on these points owing to our ignorance of the relative effects of increasing temperature and pressure , it was assumed tentatively that the outer surface of the effective magnetic magma might be at an average depth of abont 100 miles , and the thickness about 25 or 30 miles .
The proportion of mag- 1889 .
] Geological Origin of Terrestrial Magnetism .
net.ic iron-ore in basaltic rocks was then considered , and it was shown that an average of 10 to 15 per cent , would express these proportions ; and assuming similar proportions to exist in the earth 's magnetic magma , we should then have an effective terrestrial magnet of from 2J to 3 miles in thickness .
The actual magnetic magma or shell might be very much thicker than that here assumed .
Instances of polarity in basaltic masses at various localities were adduced in order to illustrate the possibility of polarity in the internal mass .
The subject of the polarity of the globe was then discussed , and it was pointed out how the position of the so-called " magnetic poles " leads to the inference that they are in some way dependent upon the position of the terrestrial poles .
The author regarded the so-called " double poles " as merely due to protuberances of the magnetic magma into the exterior nonmagnetic magma , and considered that there was really only a single magnetic pole in each hemisphere , embracing the whole region round the terrestrial pole and the stronger and weaker magnetic foci , and roughly included within the latitude of 70 ' within the northern hemisphere .
It was pointed out that the poles of a bar-magnet embrace a comparatively large area of its surface , and hence a natural terrestrial magnet of the size here indicated may be inferred to embrace a pro-portionably large tract for its poles .
In reference to the question why the magnetic poles are situated near those of the earth itself , this phenomenon seemed to be connected with the original consolidation of the crust of the globe , and the formation of its internal magmas .
It was pointed out that , owing to the differences of temperature which must have existed in the polar regions , as compared with those of the equatorial , the process of solidification has been more rapid in the polar legions than elsewhere , and it was inferred that in the case of the magnetic magma the process of crystallisation and the polar arrangement of the particles of magnetic iron-ore would proceed from the poles towards the equator in a radial direction .
The manner in which the phenomena of magnetic intensity , and of the dip of the needle at different latitudes could be explained on the hypothesis of an earth 's internal magnet , such as here described , was then pointed out , and the analogy of such a magnet with a magnetic bar passing through the centre of the earth was illustrated .
The author then proceeded to account on geo-dynamical principles for the secular variation of the magnetic needle , and also to show how the objections that might be raised to the views here advanced , on the grounds of the high temperature which must be assumed to exist at the depth beneath the surface of the magnetic magma , could be met by considerations of pressure , and on this subject read a letter which he had received from Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Drs. S. Martin and R. N. Wolfenden .
[ May 16 , In conclusion , the author stated it was impossible in a short abstract to go into the details of the subjects here discussed , and for further information the reader must be referred to the paper itself .
II .
" Physiological Action of the Active Principle of the Seeds of Abrus precatorius(Jequirity ) .
" By SIDNEY MARTIN , M.D. London , British Medical Association Research Scholar , Assistant Physician to the Victoria Park Chest Hospital , and R. NORRIS Wolfenden , M.D. ( Cantab .
) .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College .
) Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received April 11 , 1889 .
The object of the present investigation was to study the physiological action of the active principle of the jequirity seed .
A watery infusion of the seeds , as is well , known , produces severe inflammation of the conjunctiva when a few drops are placed in the eye ; and when injected under the skin , or as in the " sui " poisoning of cattle in India , it is fatal to animals .
Both the local irritant and the poisonous properties of the seed were formerly ascribed to a specific organism , called the jequirity bacillus , the nature of which was investigated by Sattler , Cornil , and Berlioz .
Klein , however , showed that the action could not be due to a bacillus , since the poison was permanently destroyed by momentary boiling of the infusion .
Warden and Waddell have effectually disposed of the bacillus theory of the action of jequirity , and in a pamphlet entitled the ' Non-Bacillar Nature of Abrus Poison ' ( Calcutta , 1884 ) , they demonstrated that the poisonous activity of the seeds was dependent on a proteid body which was called by them Abrin .
Abrin was considered to be closely allied to egg'-albumin and the vegetable albumins .
The reactions given by Warden and Waddell are , however , by no means conclusive that abrin belongs to the class of " albumins " as understood by physiological chemists .
The fact that it is precipitated from solution by acetic acid shows that it is not an albumin : this is a reaction common to globulin and certain other proteids , such as alkali-album in .
The reactions , moreover , given by these observers as given by abrin are not distinctive of it , but are common to all proteids .
To clear up these discrepancies the proteids of the seed were investigated by one of us ( M. ) , and in a paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' ( vol. 42 , p , 331 ) two proteids were described , a globulin and an albumose .
The globulin was found to be vegetable paraglobulin , being soluble in 15 per cent , sodium chloride solution , and coagulating in 10 per cent , magnesium sulphate

