III .
Experimental Researches on the Functions of the Vagus and the Cervical Sympathetic Nerves in Man .
" By ATGUsTUS WALLER , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 6 , 1861 .
The offices of these two nerves in the animal economy are of such importance as to render it a matter of practical interest to the physician , as well as to the physiologist , to obtain as clear an insight as possible into their functions .
It would be impossible to point out any nerves presenting so many questions of daily importance to the practitioner as these , which govern the innervation of the stomach , the heart , the lungs , and the liver .
Hitherto we have been restricted to their investigation in the lower animals , and from the results which have been thus furnished , we have judged of what obtains in man .
It is almost needless for me to point out that , although such inferences are generally correct as regards the motor phenomena of life , our evidence respecting the sensory functions of the nerves is necessarily more uncertain and inconclusive .
My object at present is to describe some results obtained by irritating the vagus and cervical sympathetic in man , in such a way as to ascertain their functions , not only in a state of health , but also their condition in disease , and in various functional derangements to which they are subject .
The means which I adopt for this purpose are the same as that which I have used in the case of the ulnar nerve and of the retina , i. e. mechanical irritation by simple pressure on the trunk of the nerve .
I generally apply pressure of the fingers at the highest point of the neck behind the ramus of the lower jaw .
A moderate amount of pressure applied in this manner is usually sufficient , in the course of about a minute , to produce symptoms which are at once easily recognized as originating from the irritation of the vagus and the sympathetic nerve .
Generally the first sensation experienced is that of want of breath , which is followed by deep and laboured inspirations : this dyspnoea occurs in healthy persons in about a minute or two .
While these symptoms are occurring , we observe a considerable disturbance of the heart 's action .
At first there is increase in the number of its pulsations , with decreased power , as may be easily ascertained by the pulse .
To this supervenes a retardation of the heart 's action of about 4 to 5 beats a minute of its initial number , at the same time there being decrease of the force of the pulse .
These motory affections of the heart are frequently accompanied by slight uneasiness over the precordial region .
At the next stage the heart 's action may become so much enfeebled as to produce syncope .
The stomach symptoms which are produced by irritation of the vagus are marked by uneasiness over the stomach , in some cases increasing so as to cause a sensation of nausea .
I have not hitherto observed any motor effects on the stomach , but in the intestines borborygmi occur , as after irritation of the vagus on animals .
I am unable at present to state whether any glycose urine is produced .
On the ear corresponding to the side compressed are felt tingling and heat , which often last upwards of half an hour after the removal of pressure .
In only one instance have I been able to detect any influence on the pupil .
It at first became dilated , and subsequently contracted after the pressure was removed .
All the above symptoms quickly disappear after the removal of the irritating cause , leaving , however , a degree of lassitude , fatigue , and lowness of spirits , which may last for some hours .
It is easily ascertained that the symptoms above described are not owing to compression of the carotid artery , as they may be produced without obliterating the calibre of the artery ; or , vice versed , the course of the blood may be completely interrupted in the artery without producing any of the symptoms enumerated .
On another opportunity I intend to show the applications which this mode of investigating the condition of the vagus presents in a practical point of view , for the diagnosis of various functional derangements or diseases of the vagus .

