Amounts of Neon and Helium Atmospheric Air .
Ill distance .
The easiest explanation would be to assume an error in the time , but this supposition is inadmissible in an astronomical observatory , one of whose functions is the giving of a daily time signal .
The discrepancy must remain inexplicable , and in view of it , and of the doubt in the interpretation , the record has been excluded from consideration .
Batavia.\#151 ; The diagram is rather indefinite ; there is an increase at about 4 m. after the commencement , probably marking the second impulse , but the first considerable increase is about 25 minutes after the commencement .
This probably represents the second phase , of which the beginning is indistinct , and to which the maximum at 3 h. 124 m. belongs ; the maximum of the third phase is at about 3 li .
49 m. A Determination of the Amounts of Neon and Helium Atmospheric Air .
By Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.RS .
( Received March 11 , \#151 ; Read March 16 , 1905 .
) Some time ago 1 communicated to the Society* the results of an attempt to estimate the amounts of krypton and of xenon in air .
The quantities were necessarily minimum estimates , for there is no doubt that both krypton and xenon must evaporate when air evaporates , even if that take place at a very low temperature .
Dr. Travers and I guessed at the amounts of neon and helium , and supposed that the amount of helium was one or two parts per million , and that of neon one or two parts per 100,000 .
This guess is not very far from the truth , as the following account of recent experiments will show .
The ingenious method discovered by Sir James Dewar of using cooled cocoanut charcoal as an absorbent for gases has made it easy to carry out the estimation .
The process consists in cooling 100 grammes of such charcoal to \#151 ; 100 ' , approximately , in a bulb from which all air has been removed by a pump .
Such charcoal will absorb about three litres of air ; at that temperature neither neon nor helium are absorbed in appreciable quantity , as special experiments showed .
Hence on placing the cooled bulb containing the charcoal in communication with a Topler pump , the uncondensed gases enter the barrel of the pump .
On closing the connecting stop-cock , a further quantity * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 71 , p. 421 .
112 Sir W. Ramsay .
A Determination llie [ Mar. 11 , of gas accumulates , and is again removed into the pump in the same manner .
As the relative volumes of the pump and of the cooled bulb were approximately 4 to 1 , after communication had been established four times , only 1/ 256 of the contents of the bulb were left in it .
And as the gas in contact with charcoal exerts a kind of vapour-pressure , inasmuch as the pressure which it gives depends on the temperature as well as on the extent of the surface of charcoal to which it is exposed , it may be assumed that gas escapes from the charcoal on each reduction of pressure , and that the more volatile gases in the bulb should be expelled by the less volatile .
In this manner 18 litres of moist air was treated ; on its way to the charcoal bulb it traversed a tube filled with phosphorus pentoxide , to deprive it of moisture .
The temperature was about 15 ' during these operations , hence the actual volume corrected to 0 ' C. , and deprived of water-vapour , was about 16,800 c.c. This volume was reduced to about 400 c.c. in the manner described , and the smaller volume contained practically all the neon and helium .
By means of a smaller apparatus containing about 3 grammes of charcoal , the volume was further reduced , in a similar manner , until only a few cubic centimetres were removed through the pump .
A convenient cooling mixture was found to be frozen ether .
By stirring ordinary commercial ether with a test-tube containing liquid air , and frequently replenished , solid ether at last begins to coat the outside of the test-tube .
At this stage liquid air is poured on to the surface of the ether , and a crust of ether-ice forms .
This is broken , and stirred through the liquid portion , and the operation is repeated until a sufficient quantity of solid has accumulated .
The cold ether bath may now be used to cool the charcoal tube ; not much solid melts during the process , and the temperature registered by a pentane thermometer was approximately -100 ' .
Having reduced the volume of the gases to about 2 c.c. , the remaining oxygen and nitrogen were removed by sparking .
It is true that about 2/ 100 of a cubic centimetre of argon may be thus retained ; but the quantity is probably much less , for oxygen is less volatile than argon , and would probably remove at least a portion .
The residue , at any rate , did not show the argon spectrum .
The inert residue was then , after it had been measured , admitted into the small apparatus ; the charcoal , however , was now cooled with liquid air .
Preliminary experiments had shown that at that temperature , neon is retained by charcoal in considerable amount .
Hence , on opening the stop-cock communicating with the pump , helium escaped , while neon was retained 1905 .
] Amounts of Neon and Helium Atmospheric Air .
113 The surface of the charcoal was very large considering the small quantity of gas presented to it .
As before , the pump was opened four times , so as to make sure that all helium should escape .
This helium showed the neon spectrum , but feebly ; it may have contained a few per cent , of neon .
On the other hand , the neon remaining in the charcoal , when expelled by heat , was almost free from the helium spectrum .
Probably then , the estimate which will be given errs in that the quantity of helium may be somewhat too large , and that of neon too small .
The neon was again purified by sparking before being measured ; for it was thought best to jacket the charcoal tube with the vapour of boiling quinoline ( 237 ' ) in order to make sure that all neon had been expelled , and the effect was to expel along with it some nitrogen which had remained in the charcoal , besides some carbon dioxide .
A word may be said as to the method of measuring very small quantities of gas .
The measuring tube was provided with a 2-way stop-cock , one exit from which was sealed to an inverted siphon of capillary tubing .
It had also two points of blue glass sealed in , one indicating the volume 2409 c.c. , the other 9'657 c.c. The smaller volume was alone used .
In reading the volume of the gas , the measuring tube is clamped in front of a long standard scale ( one by Zeiss , which had been calibrated ) .
The mercury is then set to the blue glass point , by lowering the mercury reservoir attached to the measuring-tube , and the temperature , and difference in level of the two mercury surfaces , are read .
The volume at 0 ' and 760 mm. pressure was calculated in the usual way .
The excellent results given by this method will be seen from the correspondence between the volume of mixed neon and helium , and the sum of the measurements of each separately .
Volumes of Neon and Helium .
Volume of mixed gases , after sparking ... . .
0-2756 c.c. " helium , unsparked ... ... ... ... . .
0-0685 " " neon , after sparking ... ... ... ... 0-2080 " The sum of the last tw-o is 0-2765 , a number agreeing within \ per cent , of the volume taken .
Referring these quantities to the volume of air from which they were extracted , and also to that of the argon in that air , we obtain:\#151 ; Neon in air ... ... ... 1 volume in 80,790 volumes of air .
Helium in air ... ... .
1 " 245,300 Together ... ... ... ... 1 " 61,000 114 Amounts of Neon and Helium Atmospheric Air .
The percentage of argon in air being taken as 0*937 , there follows:\#151 ; Neon in argon ... ... 1 volume in 757 volumes of argon .
Helium in argon ... .
1 " 2300 " " Together ... ... ... .
1 " 571 " " The percentages by weight and volume are as follows:\#151 ; Neon by weight in gaseous air ... 0*0000086 per cent. " volume " ... 0'0000123 " Helium by weight " ... 0*00000056 " " volume " ... 0*0000040 " The density of crude argon was determined by Lord Rayleigh and myself as 19*94 ; the mean density of pure argon , in conjunction with Dr. Travers , as 19*957 .
It is interesting to see whether , neglecting the heavier constituents { inasmuch as their amount is inappreciable ) , the calculated and found densities of argon agree .
Allowing for the presence of the neon and helium , the density of pure argon should be 19*953 ; the most reliable numbers found by Travers and myself were 19*952 and 19*961 .
One more point deserves notice .
A fair quantity of the mixture of neon and helium was prepared by liquefying air ; 540 c.c. of liquid air were collected .
The lighter gases were collected by blowing air through this liquid , and collecting in a gas-holder .
This mixture was then fractionated by absorption in charcoal , as already described , but the charcoal was cooled with liquid air to \#151 ; 192 ' ; the mixed gases measured 4*463 c.c. Now , taking the density of liquid air as 1 , the total volume of the gaseous air from which the 540 c.c. of liquid air had been obtained was 404*4 litres at 0 ' and 760 mm. ; and the proportion of mixed gases in gaseous air would be 1 in 90,000 .
A considerable quantity of neon , and possibly a trace of helium , had apparently been retained by the charcoal .
But the yield on a large scale is not a bad one ; and no doubt , if the charcoal were cooled not below \#151 ; 100 ' , all the gases could be extracted .
Now this gas must have contained all the free hydrogen present in the air ; and it was mixed with oxygen , and sparked for a short time ; it was then collected through the pump , which dried it , and it was remeasured .
There was no contraction ; the volume of the mixed gases added oxygen was 5*169 c.c. , and that of the same gas after sparking 5*170 c.c. The amount of free hydrogen in air , therefore , must be less than 1/ 500 of the volume of the combined neon and helium , assuming it to be possible to measure to 0*01 c.c. It should be added , perhaps , that it would be well not to regard this experiment as conclusive , but it is given for what it is worth .

