1888 .
] Conditions of a Swarm of , Sfe .
3 first produced , and , if circumstances are favourable , this is further oxidised to carbon dioxide .
II .
" On the Mechanical Conditions of a Swarm of Meteorites , and on Theories of Cosmogony .
" By G. H. Darwin , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College and Plumian Professor in the University of Cambridge .
Received July 12 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) Mr. Lockyer writes in bis interesting paper on Meteorites* as follows " The brighter lines in spiral nebulae , and in those in which a rotation has been set up , are in all probability due to streams of meteorites with irregular motions out of the main streams , in which the collisions would be almost nil It has already been suggested by Professor G. Darwin ( 'Nature , 'vol .
31 , p. 25)\#151 ; using the gaseous hypothesis\#151 ; that in such nebulae the great mass of the gas is non-luminous , the luminosity being an evidence of condensation along lines of low velocity according to a well-known hydro dynamical law .
From this point of view the visible nebula may be regarded as a luminous diagram of its own stream-lines .
' " The whole of Mr. Lockyer 's paper , and especially this passage in it , leads me to make a suggestion for the reconciliation of two apparently divergent theories of the origin of planetary systems .
The nebular hypothesis depends essentially on the idea that the primitive nebula is a rotating mass of fluid , which at successive epochs becomes unstable from excess of rotation , and sheds a ring from the equatorial region .
The researches of Rochef ( apparently but little known in this country ) have imparted to this theory a precision which was wanting in Laplace 's original exposition , and have rendered the explanation of the origin of the planets more perfect .
But notwithstanding the high probability that some theory of the kind is true , the acceptance of the nebular hypothesis presents great difficulties .
Sir William Thomson long ago expressed to me his opinion that the most probable origin of the planets was through a gradual accretion of meteoric matter , and the researches of Mr. Lockyer afford actual evidence in favour of the abundancy of meteorites in space .
* 'Nature , ' Nov. 17 , 1887 .
The paper itself is in 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' Nov. 15 , 1887 ( No. 259 , p. 117 ) .
t 4 Montpellier , Acad. Sci. .
Mem. ' 4 Prof. G. H. Darwin .
On the Mechanical [ Nov. 15 , But the very essence of the nebular hypothesis is the conception of fluid pressure , since without it the idea of a figure of equilibrium becomes inapplicable .
Now , at first sight , the meteoric- condition of matter seems absolutely inconsistent with a fluid pressure exercised by one part of the system on another .
AftTe thus seem , driven either to the absolute rejection of the nebular hypothesis , or to deny that the meteoric condition was the immediate antecedent of the sun and planets .
M. Faye has taken the former course , and accepts as a necessary consequence4 the formulation of a succession of events quite different from that of the nebular hypothesis.3^ I cannot myself find that his theory is an improvement on that of Laplace , except in regard to the adoption of meteorites , for he has lost the conception of the figure of equilibrium of a rotating mass of fluid .
The object of this paper is to point out that by a certain interpretation of the meteoric theory we may obtain a reconciliation of these two orders of ideas , and may hold that the origin of stellar and planetary systems is meteoric , whilst retaining the conception of fluid pressure .
According to the kinetic theory of gases fluid pressure is the average result of the impacts of molecules .
If we imagine the molecules magnified until of the size of meteorites , their impacts will still , on a coarser scale , give a quasi-fluid pressure .
I suggest then that the fluid pressure essential to the nebular hypothesis is in fact the resultant of countless impacts of meteorites .
The problems of hydrodynamics could hardly be attacked with success , if we were forced to start from the beginning and to consider the cannonade of molecules .
But when once satisfied that the kinetic theory will give us a gas , which , in a space containing some millions of molecules , obeys all the laws of an ideal non-molecular gas filling all space , we may put the molecules out of sight and treat the gas as a plenum .
In the same way the difficulty of tracing the impacts of meteorites in detail is insuperable , but if we can find that such impacts give rise to a quasi-fluid pressure on a large scale , we may be able to trace out many results by treating an ideal plenum .
Laplace 's hypothesis implies such a plenum , and it is here maintained that this plenum is merely the idealisation of the impacts of meteorites .
As a bare suggestion this view is worth but little , for its acceptance or rejection must turn entirely on numerical values , which can only ba obtained by the consideration of some actual system .
It is obvious that the solar system is the only one about which we have sufficient knowledge to afford a basis for discussion .
The paper , of which this U an abstract , is accordingly devoted to a consideration of the * 'Sur TOrigine du Moi ; de/ Paris , Gauthier-Villars , 1884 .
* Annuaire pour l'an 1885 , Bureau des Longitudes/ p. 757 .
1888 .
] Conditions of a Swarm of Meteorites , fc .
5 mechanics of a swarm of meteorites , with special numerical application to the solar system .
When two meteoric stones meet with planetary velocity , the stress between them during impact must generally be such that the limits of true elasticity are exceeded , and it may be urged that a kinetic theory is inapplicable unless the colliding particles are highly elastic .
It may , however , 1 think , be shown that the very greatness of the velocities will impart what virtually amounts to an elasticity of a high order of perfection .
It appears , d priori , probable that when two meteorites clash , a portion of the solid matter of each is volatilised , and Mr. Lockyer considers the spectroscopic evidence conclusive that it is so .
rl here is no doubt enough energy liberated on impact to volatilise the whole of both bodies , but only a small portion of each stone will undergo this change .
A numerical example is given in the paper to show the enormous amount of energy with which we are dealing .
It must necessarily be obscure as to how a small mass of solid matter cctu take up a very large amount of energy in a small fraction of a second , but spectroscopic evidence seems to show that it does so ; and if so , we have what is virtually a violent explosive introduced between the two stones .
In a direct collision each stone is probably shattered into fragments , like the splashes of lead when a bullet hits an iron target .
But direct collision must be a comparatively rare event .
In glancing collisions the velocity of neither body is wholly arrested , the concentration of energy is not so enormous ( although probably still sufficient to effect volatilisation ) , and since the stones rub past one another , more time is allowed for the matter round the point of contact to take up the energy ; thus the whole process of collision is much more intelligible .
The nearest terrestrial analogy is when a cannon-ball rebounds from the sea .
In glancing collisions fracture will probably not be very frequent .
From these arguments it is probable that , when two meteorites meet , they attain an effective elasticity of a high order of perfection ; but there is of course some loss of energy at each collision .
[ It must , however , be admitted that on collision the deflection of path is rarely a very large angle ; but a succession of glancing collisions would be capable of reversing the path , and thus the kinetic theory of meteorites may be taken as not differing materially from that of gases.* ] Perhaps the most serious difficulty in the whole theory arises from the fractures whiSh must often occur .
If they happen with great frequency , it would seem as if the whole swarm of meteorites would degrade into dust .
We know , however , that meteorites of consider-# Added on November 16 , 1888 .
6 Prof. G. H. Darwin .
On Mechanical [ Nov. 15 , able size fall upon the earth , and , unless Mr. Lockyer has misinterpreted the spectroseopic evidence , the nebulae do now consist of meteorites .
Hence it would seem as if fracture was not of very frequent occurrence .
It is easy to see that if two bodies meet with a given velocity the chance of fracture is much greater if they are large , and it is possible that the process of breaking up will go on only until a certain size , dependent on the velocity of agitation , is reached , and will then become comparatively unimportant .
When the volatilised gases cool they will condense into a metallic rain , and this may fuse with old meteorites whose surfaces are molten .
A meteorite in that condition will certainly also pick up dust .
Thus there are processes in action tending to counteract subdivision by fracture and volatilisation .
The mean size of meteorites probably depends on the balance between these opposite tendencies .
, If this is so , there will be some fractures , and some fusions , but the mean mass will change very slowly with the mean kinetic energy of agitation .
This view is at any rate adopted in the paper as a working-hypothesis .
It was not , however , possible to take account of fracture and fusion in the mathematical investigation , but the meteorites are treated as being of invariable mass .
The velocity with which the meteorites move is derived from their fall from a great distance towards a centre of aggregation .
In other words , the potential energy of their mutual attraction when widely dispersed becomes converted , at least partially , into kinetic energy .
When the condensation of a swarm is just beginning , the mass of the aggregation towards which the meteorites fall is small , and thus the new bodies arrive at the aggregation with small velocity .
Hence initially the kinetic energy is small , and the volume of the sphere within which hydrostatic ideas are ( if anywhere ) applicable is also small .
As more and more meteorites fall in , that volume is enlarged , and the velocity with which they reach the aggregation is increased .
Finally the supply of meteorites in that part of space begins to fail , and the imperfect elasticity of the colliding bodies brings about a gradual contraction of the swarm .
I do not now attempt to trace the whole history of a swarm , but the object of the paper is to examine its mechanical condition at an epoch when the supply of meteorites from outside has ceased , and when the velocities of agitation and distribution of meteorites in space have arranged themselves into a sub-permanent condition , only affected by secular changes .
This examination will enable us to understand , at least roughly , the secular change as the swarm contracts , and will throw light on other questions .
The foundation for the mathematical investigation in the paper is the hypothesis that a number of meteorites which were ultimately to coalesce , so as to form the sun and planets , have fallen together from 1888 .
] Conditions of a Swarm Meteorites , 7 a condition of wide dispersion , and form a swarm in which collisions are frequent . . . .
For the sake of simplicity , the bodies are treated as spherical , and in the first instance as being of uniform size .
Tt is assumed provisionally that the kinetic theory of gases may be applied for the determination of the distribution of the meteorites m space .
No account being taken of the rotation of the system , the meteorites will be arranged in concentric spherical layers of equal density of distribution , and the quasi-gas , whose molecules are meteorites , being compressible , the density will be greater towards the centre of the swarm .
The elasticity of a gas depends on the kinetic energy of agitation of its molecules , and therefore in order to determine the law of density in the swarm we must know the distribution of kinetic energy of agitation .
It is assumed that when the system comes under our notice , uniformity of distribution of energy has been attained throughout a central sphere , which is surrounded by a layer of meteorites with that distribution of kinetic energy which , in a gas , corresponds to convective equilibrium , and with continuity of density and velocity of agitation at the sphere ot separation .
Since in a gas in convective equilibrium the law connecting pressure and density is that which holds when the gas is contained in a vessel impermeable to heat , such an arrangement of gas has been called by M. Ritter* an isothermal-adiabatic sphere , and the same term is adopted here as applicable to a swarm of meteorites .
The justifiability of these assumptions will be considered later .
The first problem which presents itself then is the equilibrium of an isothermal sphere of gas under its own gravitation .
The law of density is determined in the paper , but it will here suffice to remark that , if a given mass be enclosed in an envelope of given radius , there is a minimum temperature ( or energy of agitation ) at which isothermal equilibrium is possible .
The minimum energy of agitation is found to be such that the mean square of velocity of the meteorites is almost exactly f of the square of the velocity of a satellite grazing the surface of the sphere in a circular orbit .
As indicated above , it is supposed that in the meteor-swarm the rigid envelope , bounding the isothermal sphere , is replaced by a layer or atmosphere in convective equilibrium .
The law of density in the adiabatic layer is determined in the paper , and it appears that when the isothermal sphere has minimum temperature , the mass of the adiabatic atmosphere is a minimum relatively to that of the isothermal sphere .
Numerical calculation shows , in fact , that the isothermal sphere cannot amount in mass to more than 46 per cent , of the mass of the whole isothermal-adiabatic sphere , and that the limit of the * ' Annalen der Physik und Chemie , ' vol. 16 ( 1882 ; , p. 166 .
Prof. G. H. Darwin .
On Mechanical [ Nov. 15 , adiabatic atmosphere is at a distance equal to 2'786 times the radius of the isothermal sphere.* It is also proved that the total energy , existing in the form of energy of agitation , is exactly one-half of the potential energy lost in the concentration of the matter from a condition of infinite dispersion .
This result is brought about by a continual transfer of energy from a molar to a molecular form , for a portion of the kinetic energy of a meteorite is constantly being transferred into the form of thermal energy in the volatilised gases generated on collision .
The thermal energy is then lost by radiation .
It is impossible as yet to sum up all the considerations which go to justify the assumption of the isothermal-adiabatic arrangement , but it is clear that uniformity of kinetic energy must be principally brought about by a process of diffusion .
It is therefore interesting to consider what amount of inequality in the kinetic energy would have to be smoothed away .
The arrangement of density in the isothermal-adiabatic sphere being given , it is easy to compute what the kinetic energy would be at any part of the swarm , if each meteorite fell from infinity to the neighbourhood where we find it , and there retained all the velocity due to such fall .
The variation of the square of this velocity gives an indication of the amount of kinetic energy which has to be degraded by conversion into heat and distributed by diffusion , in the attainment of uniformity .
This may be called " the theoretical value of the kinetic energy .
" It appears that in the swarm , this square of velocity rises from zero at the centre of the swarm to a maximum , which is attained nearly half-way through the adiabatic layer , and then diminishes .
It is found that the variations of this theoretical value are inconsiderable throughout the greater part of the range .
Since this " theoretical value of the kinetic energy " is zero at the centre , there must be diffusion of kinetic energy from without inwards , and considerations of the same kind show that when a planet consolidates there must be a cooling of the middle strata both outwards and inwards .
We must now consider the nature of the criterion which determines whether the hydrostatic treatment of a meteor-swarm is permissible .
The hydrodynamical treatment of an ideal plenum of gas leads to the same result as the kinetic theory with regard to any phenomenon involving purely a mass , when that mass is a large multiple of the mass of a molecule ; to any phenomenon involving purely a length , when the cube of that length contains a large number of molecules ; and to any phenomenon involving purely a time , when that time is a large multiple of the mean interval between collisions .
Again , any # This is one of the results established by M. Ritter in a series of papers in the ' Annalen der Physik und Chemie ' from 1878 onwards .
1888 .
] Conditions of a Swarm of Meteorites , \lt ; $fc .
9 velocity to be justly deduced from hydrodynamics !
principles must be expressible as the edge of a cube containing many molecules passed over in a time containing many collisions of a single molecule ; and a similar statement must hold of any other function of mass , length 7 and time .
Beyond these limits we must go back to the kinetic theory itself , and in using it care must be taken that enough molecules are considered at once to impart statistical constancy to their properties .
There are limits then to the hydrodynamical treatment of gases , and the like must hold of the parallel treatment of meteorites .
The principal question involved in the nebular hypothesis seems to be the stability of a rotating mass of gas ; but unfortunately this has remained up to now an untouched field of mathematical research .
We can only judge of probable results from the investigations which have been made concerning the stability of a rotating mass of liquid .
Now it appears that the instability of a rotating mass of liquid first enters through the graver modes of gravitational oscillation .
In the case of a rotating spheroid of revolution the gravest mode of oscillation is an elliptic deformation , and its period does not differ much from that of a satellite which revolves round the spheroid so as to graze its surface .
Hence , assuming for the moment that a kinetic theory of liquids had been formulated , we should not be justified in applying the hydrodynamical method to this discussion of stability , unless the periodic time of such a satellite were a large multiple of the analogue of the mean free time of a molecule of liquid .
Carrying then this conclusion on to the kinetic theory of meteorites , it seems probable that hydrodynamical treatment must be inapplicable for the discussion of such a theory as the meteoric-nebular hypothesis , unless a similar relation holds good .
These considerations , although of a vague character , will afford a criterion of the applicability of hydrodynamics to the kind of problem suggested by the nebular hypothesis .
And certain criteria suggested by this line of thought are found in the paper ; they give a measure of the degree of curvature of the average path pursued by a meteorite between two collisions .
After these preliminary investigations , we .
have to consider what kind of meeting of two meteorites will amount to an " encounter " within the meaning of the kinetic theory .
Is it possible , in fact , that two meteorites can considerably bend their paths under the influence of gravitation , when they pass near one another ?
This question is considered in the paper , and it is shown that unless the bodies have the dimensions of small planets , the mutual gravitational influence is insensible .
Hence , nothing short of absolute impact is to be considered an encounter in the kinetic theory , Prof. G. H. Darwin .
On Mechanical [ Nov. 15 , arid what is called the radius of ** the sphere of action " is simply the distance between the centres of a pair when they graze , and is therefore the sum of the radii of a pair , or , if of uniform size , the diameter of one of them .
The next point to consider is the mass and size which must he attributed to the meteorites .
The few samples which have been found on the earth prove that no great error can be committed if the average density of a meteorite be taken as a little less than that of iron , and I accordingly suppose their density to he six times that of water .
Undoubtedly in a meteor-swarm all sizes co-exist ( a supposition considered hereafter ) ; for even if originally of uniform size they would , by subsequent fracture , be rendered diverse .
But in the first consideration of the problem they have been treated as , of uniform size , and as actual sizes are nearly unknown , results are given for meteorites weighing 3^- grams .
Prom these , the values for other masses are easily derivable .
It is known that meteorites are actually of irregular and angular shapes , but certainly no material error can be incurred when we treat them as being spheres .
The object of all these investigations is to apply the formulae to a concrete example .
The mass of the system is therefore taken as equal to that of the sun , and the limit of the swarm at any arbitrary distance from the present sun 's centre .
The theory is of course more severely tested the wider the dispersion of the swarm , and accordingly in a numerical example the outside limit of the solar swarm is taken at 44-Jf times the earth 's distance from the sun , or further beyond the planet Neptune than Saturn is from the sun .
This assumption makes the limit of the isothermal sphere at a distance 16 , about halfway between Saturn and Uranus .
In this case the mean velocity of the meteorites in the isothermal sphere is 5^- kilometers per second , being a/ I of the linear velocity of a planet revolving about a central body with a mass equal to 46 per cent , of that of the sun , at distance 16 .
In .
the adiabatic layer it diminishes to zero at distance 44^ .
This velocity is independent of the size of the meteorites .
The mean free path between collisions ranges from 42,000 kilometers at the centre , to 1,300,000 kilometers at radius 16 , and to infinity at radius 44-| .
The mean interval between collisions ranges from a tenth of a day at the centre , to three days at radius 16 , and to infinity at radius 44^ .
The criterion of applicability of hydrodynamics ranges from at the distance of the asteriods to g-gVo at radius 16 , and to infinity at radius 44\#163 ; .
All these quantities are ten times as great for meteorites of 3\#163 ; kilos .
, and a hundred times as great for meteorites of 3^ tonnes .
Prom a consideration of the tables in the paper it appears that , 1888 .
] Conditions of a Swarm of $c .
'It with meteorites of 3\#163 ; kilos .
, the collisions are sufficiently frequent even beyond the orbit of Neptune to allow the kinetic theory to be applicable in the sense explained .
But if the meteorites weigh jjjl .
tonnes , the criterion ceases to be very small at about distance 24 , and if they weigh 3125 tonnes they cease to be very small at about the orbit of Jupiter .
It may be concluded then that , as far as frequency of collision is concerned , the liydrodynamical treatment of a swarm of meteorites is justifiable .
Although the numerical results are necessarily affected by the conjectural values of the mass and density of the meteorites , yet it was impossible to arrive at any conclusion whatever as to the validity of the theory without numerical values , and such a discussion as the above was therefore necessary .
I now pass on to consider some results of this view of a swarm of meteorites , and to consider the justifiability of the assumption of an isothermal-adiabatic arrangement of density .
With regard to the uniformity of distribution of kinetic energy in the isothermal sphere , it is important to ask whether or not sufficient time can have elapsed in the history of the system to allow of the equalisation by diffusion .
It is shown therefore in the paper that in the case of the numerical example primitive inequalities of kinetic energy would , in a few thousand years , be sensibly equalised over a distance some ten times as great as our distance from the sun .
This result then goes to show that we are justified in assuming an isothermal sphere as the centre of the swarm .
As , however , the swarm contracts the rate of diffusion diminishes as the inverse | power of its linear dimensions , whilst the rate of generation of inequalities of distribution of kinetic energy , through the imperfect elasticity of the meteorites , increases .
Hence , in a late stage of the swarm , inequalities of kinetic energy would be set up , there would be a tendency to the production of convective currents , and thus the whole swarm would probably settle down to the condition of convective equilibrium throughout .
It may be conjectured then that the best hypothesis in the early stages of the swarm is the isothermal-adiabatic arrangement , and later an adiabatic sphere .
It has not seemed worth while to discuss this latter hypothesis in detail at present .
The same investigation also gives the coefficient of viscosity of the quasi-gas , and shows that it is so great that the meteor-swarm must , if rotating , revolve nearly without relative motion of its parts , other than the motion of agitation .
But as the viscosity diminishes when the swarm contracts , this would probably not be true in the later stages of its history , and the central portion would probably rotate more rapidly than the outside .
It forms , however , no part of the scope of this paper to consider the rotation of the system .
12 Prof. G. H. Darwin .
On the Mechanical [ Nov. 15 , The rate of loss of kinetic energy through imperfect elasticity is next considered , and it appears that the rate , estimated per unit time and volume , must vary directly as the square of the quasi-pressuve , and inversely as the mean velocity of agitation .
Since the kinetic energy lost is taken up in volatilising solid matter , it follows that the heat generated must follow the same Jaw .
The mean temperature of the gases generated in any part of the swarm depends on a great variety of circumstances , but it seems probable that its variation would be according to some law of the same kind .
Thus , if the spectroscope enables us to form an idea of the temperature in various parts of a nebula , we shall at the same time obtain some idea of the distribution of density .
It has been assumed that the outer portion of the swarm is in convective equilibrium , and therefore there is a definite limit beyond which it cannot extend .
Now a medium can only be said to be in convective equilibrium when it obeys the laws of gases , and the applicability of those laws depends on the frequency of collisions .
But at the boundary of the adiabatic layer the velocity of agitation vanishes , and collisions become infinitely rare .
These two propositions are mutually destructive of one another , and it is impossible to push the conception of convective equilibrium to its logical conclusion .
There must , in fact , be some degree of rarity of density and of collisions at which the statistical treatment of the medium breaks down .
I have sought to obtain some representation of the state of things by supposing that collisions never occur beyond a certain distance from the centre of the swarm .
Then from every point of the surface of the sphere , which limits the region of collisions , a fountain of meteorites is shot out , in all azimuths and at all inclinations to the vertical , and with velocities grouped about a mean according to the law of error .
These meteorites ascend to various heights , without collision , and , in falling back on to the limiting sphere , cannonade its surface , so as to counterbalance the hydrostatic pressure at the limiting sphere .
The distribution in space of the meteorites thus shot out is investigated in the paper , and it is found that near the limiting sphere the decrease in density is somewhat more rapid than the decrease corresponding to convective equilibrium .
But at more remote distances the decrease is less rapid , and the density ultimately tends to vary inversely as the square of the distance from the centre .
It is clear that according to this hypothesis the mass of the system is infinite in a mathematical sense ; for the existence of meteorites with nearly parabolic and hyperbolic orbits necessitates an infinite number , if the loss of the system shall be made good by the supply .
1888 .
] Conditions of a Swarm of , 8\gt ; c. But if we consider the subject from a physical point of view , this conclusion appears unobjectionable.* The ejection of molecules with exceptionally high velocities from the surface of a liquid is called evaporation , and the absorption of others is called condensation .
The general history of a swarm , as sketched at the beginning , may then be put in different words , for we may say that at first a swarm gams by condensation , that condensation and evaporation balance , and finally that evaporation gains the day .
If the hypothesis of convective equilibrium be pushed to its logical conclusion , we reach a definite limit to the swarm , whereas if collisions be entirely annulled the density goes on decreasing inversely as the square of the distance .
The truth must clearly lie between these two hypotheses .
It is thus certain that even the small amount of evaporation , shown by the formulae derived from the hypothesis of no collision , must be in excess of the truth ; and it may be that there are enough waifs and strays in space ejected from other systems to make good loss .
Whether or not the compensation is perfect , a swarm of meteorites would pursue its evolution without being sensibly affected by a slow evaporation .
Up to this point the meteorites have been considered as of uniform size , but it will be well to examine the more truthful hypothesis that they are of all sizes , grouped about a mean according to a law of error .
It appears , from the investigation in the paper , that the larger stones move slower , the smaller ones faster , and the law is that the mean kinetic energy is the same for all sizes .
It is proved that the mean path between collisions is shorter in the proportion of 7 to 11 , and the mean frequency of collision greater in the proportion of 4 to 3 , than if the meteorites were of uniform mass equal to the mean .
Hence the numerical results found for meteorites of uniform size are applicable to non-uniform meteorites of a mean mass about a quarter greater than the uniform mass ; for example , the results for uniform meteorites of tonnes apply to non-uniform ones of mean mass a little over 4 tonnes .
The means here spoken of refer to all sizes grouped together , but there is a separate mean free path and mean frequency appropriate to each size .
These are investigated in the paper , and their values illustrated in a figure .
It appears that collisions become infinitely frequent for the infinitely small ones , because of their infinite velocity , and again infinitely frequent for the infinitely large ones , because of their infinite size .
There is a minimum frequency of collision for a * [ It must be borne in'mind that the very bigh velocities which occur occasionally in a medium with perfectly elastic molecules , must happen with great rarity amongst meteorites .
An impact of such violence that it ought to generate a hyperbolic velocity will probably merely cause fracture.\#151 ; Added November 23 , 1388 .
] 14 Prof. G. II .
Darwin .
On the Mechanical [ Nov. 15 , certain size , a little less in radius than the mean radius , and considerably less in mass than the mean mass .
For infinitely small meteorites the mean free path reaches a finite limit , equal to about four times the grand mean free path ; and for infinitely large ones , the mean free path becomes infinitely short .
It must be borne in mind that there are infinitely few of the infinitely large and infinitely small meteorites .
Variety of size does not then , so far , materially affect the results .
But a difference arises when we come to consider the different parts of the swarm .
The larger meteorites , moving with smaller velocities , form a quasi-gas of less elasticity than do the smaller ones .
Hence the larger meteorites are more condensed towards the centre than are the smaller ones , or the large ones have a tendency to fall down , whilst the small ones have a tendency to rise .
Accordingly , the various kinds are to some extent sorted according to size .
An investigation is made in the paper of the mean mass of meteorites at various distances from the centre , both inside and outside of the isothermal sphere , and a figure illustrates the law of diminution of mean mass .
It is also clear that the loss of the system through evaporation must fall more heavily on the small meteorites than on the large ones .
After the foregoing summary , it will be well to briefly recapitulate the principal physical conclusions which seem to be legitimately deducible from the whole investigation ; in this recapitulation qualifications must necessarily be omitted or stated with great brevity .
When two meteorites are in collision , they are virtually highly elastic , although ordinary elasticity must be nearly inoperative .
A swarm of meteorites is analogous with a gas , and the laws governing gases may be applied to the discussion of its mechanical properties .
This is true of the swarm , from which the sun was formed , when it extended beyond the orbit of the planet Neptune .
When the swarm was very widely dispersed the arrangement of density and of velocity of agitation of the meteorites was that of an isothermal-adiabatic sphere .
Later in its history , when the swarm had contracted , it was probably throughout in convective equilibrium .
The actual mean velocity of the meteorites is determinable in a swarm of given mass , when expanded to a given extent .
The total energy of agitation in an isothermal-adiabatic sphere is half the potential energy lost in the concentration from a condition of infinite dispersion .
The half of the potential energy lost , which does not reappear as kinetic energy of agitation , is expended in volatilising solid matter , and heating the gases produced on the impact of meteorites .
The heat so generated is gradually lost by radiation .
The amount of heat generated per unit time and volume varies as 1888 .
] Conditions of a Swarm of , fyc .
15 the square of the quasi-hydrostatic pressure , and inversely as the mean velocity of agitation .
The temperature of the gases volatilised probably varies by some law of the same nature .
_ The path of a meteorite is approximately straight , except when abruptly deflected by a collision with another .
This ceases to be true at the outskirts of the swarm , where the collisions have become rare .
The meteorites here describe orbits under gravity which are approximately elliptic , parabolic , and hyperbolic .
In this fringe to the swarm the distribution of density ceases to be that of a gas under gravity ; and as we recede from the centre the density at first decreases more rapidly , and afterwards less rapid'y than if the medium were a gas .
Throughout all the stages of its history there is a sort of evaporation by which the swarm very slowly loses in mass , but this loss is more or less counterbalanced by condensation .
In the early stages the gain by condensation outbalances the los3 by evaporation , they then equilibrate , and finally the evaporation may be greater than condensation .
Throughout the swarm the meteorites are to some extent sorted according to size ; as we recede from the centre the number of small ones preponderates more and more , and thus the mean mass continually diminishes with increasing distance .
The loss by evaporation falls principally on the small meteorites .
A meteor swarm is subject to gaseous viscosity , which is greater the more widely diffused is the swarm .
In consequence of this a widely extended swarm , if in rotation , will revolve like a rigid body without relative motion ( other than agitation ) of its parts .
Later in the history the viscosity will probably not suffice to secure uniformity of rotation , and the central portion will revolve more rapidly than the outside .
[ The kinetic theory of meteorites may be held to present a fair approximation to the truth in the earlier stages of the evolution of the system .
But later the majority of the meteors must have been absorbed by the central sun and its attendant planets , and amongst the meteors which remain free the relative motion of agitation must have been largely diminished .
These free meteorites\#151 ; the dust and refuse of the system\#151 ; probably move in clouds , but with so little remaining motion of agitation that ( except perhaps near the perihelion of very eccentric orbits ) it would scarcely be permissible to treat the cloud as in any respect possessing the mechanical properties of a gas.]* The value of this , whole investigation will appear very different to different minds .
To some it will stand condemned as altogether too speculative , others may think that it is better to risk error in the * Added November 23 , 1888 .
16 Messrs. J. N. Langley and H. M. Fletcher .
[ Nov. 15 , chance of winning truth .
To me at least it appears that the line of thought flows in a true channel , that it may help to give a meaning to the observations of the spectroscopist , and that many interesting problems , here barely alluded to , may perhaps be solved with sufficient completeness to throw light on the evolution of nebulae and planetary systems .
III .
" On the Secretion of Saliva , chiefly on the Secretion of Salts in it .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , and H. M. Fletcher , B.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received August 17 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) Heidenhain has shown that when saliva is obtained by stimulating the chorda tympani , the percentage of salts in the saliva depends upon the rate o\#177 ; secretion , so that the faster the secretion the higher the percentage of salts is up to a limit of about 06 per cent. Werther has come to the same conclusion , but finds that the percentage of salts may be as much as O'77 .
Both in Heidenhain 's and in Werther 's experiments there are many exceptions to this rule , attributed by them to variations in the rate of secretion of saliva during the time of collecting any one sample .
We have repeated , with some modifications , the experiments of Heidenhain , paying especial attention to the rate of secretion of saliva , and find in 10 out of 11 cases , that his law of an increase in the percentage of salts with an increase in the rate of secretion holds .
The single exception may be due to a modification of the blood-flow through the gland during the time of collecting the saliva .
The slowly secreted saliva contains a low percentage of salts , whether it is produced by a weak nerve stimulus , or by a very strong nerve stimulus which lowers the irritability of the nerve-fibres .
We do not find any rate of secretion , beyond which an increase in rate fails to increase the percentage of salts in the saliva .
The increment in the percentage of salts decreases , however , with each equal successive increment in the rate of secretion .
As a rule in saliva obtained by injecting piloearpin , the percentage of salts follows Heidenhain 's law ; we take the exceptions to be due to the action of pilocarpin upon the circulation , the blood-flow through the gland being less than normally accompanies the degree of stimulation of the gland cells .
The percentage of salts in saliva obtained by stimulating the sympathetic is higher than corresponds to its rate of secretion , the saliva obtained by stimulating the chorda being taken as a basis of comparison ; this sympathetic saliva may be secreted at yi^th of the rate

