10 Prof. G. Lippmann .
On Colour Table I.\#151 ; Plate with angle of emergence in air 53 ' 24 ' .
Liquid .
a \#151 ; 0 .
a. A. Carbon bisulphide 1-6473 24 ' 15 ' 53 ' 26 ' + 2 ' a-Bromonaphthalene. . . .
1 '5341 21 50 53 22 # -1# Benzene 1 '4970 21 0 53 27# + 3# Turpentine 1'4726 20 20 53 20# -3# Olive oil 1-4673 20 12 53 21 -3 Glycerol I '4934 20 10 53 28# + 4# Chloroform 1-4439 19 35 53 19# -4# 1 Alcohol ... .
1'3561 17 2 53 15 -9 | Water 1-3327 16 21 53 22 -2 : Table II.\#151 ; Plate with angle of emergence in air 54 ' 42 ' .
Liquid .
a-9 .
a. A. Carbon bisulphide 1-6473 24 ' 58 ' 54 ' 38# ' -3# ' a-Bromonaphthalene. . . .
1 '5341 22 35 54 44# + 2# Benzene 1 -4970 21 41 54 44# + 2# Turpentine 1-4726 21 0 54 37 -5 Olive oil 1 -4673 20 56 54 45 + 3 1 Glycerol 1 -4634 20 51 54 47# + 5# Chloroform 1-4439 20 17 54 42 0 Alcohol 1-3561 17 45 54 48# + 6# Water 1 -3327 16 54 54 37 -5 that , as would of course be expected , the most accurate results are obtained with liquids of high refractive index , which give comparatively large values of a\#151 ; 6 .
By determining the values of a.\#151 ; for each of two optic axes of a given crystal plate , it can easily be ascertained with what amount of accuracy the plate has been cut perpendicularly to the bisectrix .
The principle of the method here described may very possibly be advantageously employed in other branches of optical investigation .
" On Colour Photography by the Interferential Method .
" By G. Lippmann , Professor of Physics , Faculty of Sciences , Paris .
Communicated by Sir Joseph Lister , Bart. , P.R.S. Received April 14 , \#151 ; Read April 23 , 1896 .
Colour photographs of the spectrum , or of any other object , are obtained by the following method .
A transparent photographic film of any kind has to be placed in contact with a metallic mirror during ' Photography by the Interferential Method .
exposure .
It is then developed and fixed by the usual means employed in photography , the result being a fixed colour photograph visible by reflected light . .
, The mirror is easily formed by means of mercury .
The glass plate carrying the film being enclosed in a camera slide , a quantum of mercury is allowed to flow in from a small reservoir and fill the back part of the slide , which is made mercury-tight .
The plate is turned with its glass side towards the objective , the sensitised film touching the layer of mercury .
After exposure , the mercury is allowed to flow back into its reservoir , and the plate taken out for development .
The only two conditions necessary for obtaining colour , transparency of the film and the presence of a mirror during exposure , are physical conditions .
The chemical nature of the photographic layer has only secondary importance ; any substance capable of giving , by means of an appropriate development , a fixed colourless photograph , is found to give , when backed by the mirror , a fixed colour photograph .
We may take , for instance , as a sensitive film , a layer of albumeno-iodide of silver , with an acid developer ; or a layer of gelatmo-bromide of silver , with pyrogallic acid , or with amidol , as developers .
Cyanide or bromide of potassium may be as usual employed for fixing the image .
In a word , the technics of ordinary photography remain unchanged .
Even the secondary processes of intensification and of isochromatisation are employed with full success for colour photography .
The photographic films commonly in use are found to be opaque , and formed , in fact , by grains of light-sensitive matter mechanically imprisoned by a substratum of gelatine , albumen , and collodion .
What is here wanted is a fully transparent film , the light-sensitive matter pervading the whole of the neutral substratum .
How can such a transparent film be realised ?
This question remained insoluble to me for many years , so that I was debarred trying the above method when I first thought of it .
The difficulty , however , is simply solved by the following remark .
It is well known that the precipitation of a metallic compound , such as bromide of silver , does not take place in the presence of an organic colloid , such as albumen , gelatine , or collodion .
In reality , the metallic compound is formed , but remains invisible ; it is retained in a transparent modification by the organic substances .
We have only , therefore , to prepare the films in the usual way , but with a stronger proportion of the organic substratum ; the result is a transparent film .
By mixing , for instance , a gelatinous solution of nitrate of silver with a gelatinous solution of bromide of potassium , no precipitate is formed , and the result is a transparent film of dry gelatine containing 15 and even 30 per cent , of the weight of bromide of silver .
12 On Colour Photography by the Interferential Method .
The colours reflected by the film are due to interference : they are of the same kind as those reflected by soap bubbles or by Newton 's rings .
When a ray of definite wave-length falls on the sensitive plate , it is during exposure reflected back by the mirror , and then gives rise to a set of standing waves in the interior of the film , the distance between two successive loops being equal to half the wave-length of the luminous ray .
This system of standing waves impresses its periodical structure on the film .
The photographic deposit , therefore , takes the form of a grating , a continuous grating , perfectly adapted for reflecting the particular luminous ray which has given it birth .
This theory can be subjected to experimental proof .
If we examine a photograph of the spectrum , or any other object by white light , we observe the following facts .
( 1 .
) Colours are seen in the direction of specular reflection , and are invisible in every other direction .
( 2 .
) The colours change with the incidence ; the red changing successively to green , blue , and violet , when the incidence grows more oblique .
Tne whole image of the spectrum is displaced , and gradually passes into the infra-red region .
( 3 .
) If the film be gradually moistened , the colour changes in the opposite direction , from violet to red .
This phenomenon is due to the swelling up of the gelatine or albumen , causing the intervals between the elements of the grating to become larger .
The smaller intervals , corresponding to violet and blue light , gradually swell up to the values proper to red and infra-red waves .
A photograph immersed in water loses all its colours , these appearing again during the process of drying .
Tor the same reason , a freshly prepared plate has to be dried before the correct colours can be finally seen .
TV e have now to consider the case of compound colours , and to generalise the former theory , which is only applicable to the action or simple rays .
I beg to subjoin an abstract of this generalised theory .
It will be seen that if a compound ray of definite composition impresses the plate , it gives rise during exposure to a definite set of standing waves , which impress their structure on the film , and impart to the photographic deposit a corresponding definite form .
Though very complex , this can be described as made up of a number of elementary gratings , each corresponding to one of the simple rays which contribute the impressing light .
When examined by white light , the reflected ray is shown to have the same composition as the impiessing ray , 'white light , for instance , imparts to the photographic deposit such a structure that it is adapted to reflect white light .
The only a priori condition for the correct rendering of compound rays , is a correct isochromatisation of the film .
This , again , can be practically effected by known processes , such as have been indicated by E. Becquerel , Vogel , Captain Abney , and others .
Photographing with Monochromatic Rays .
As a verification of this theory , I beg leave to project on the screen a series of colour photographs , representing natural objects : pictures on stained glass , landscapes from nature , flowers , and a portrait from life .
Every colour in nature , including white , and the delicate hue of the human complexion , is thus shown to be reflected by a correctly developed photographic film .
* It is to be remarked that , as in the case of the spectrum , the colours are visible only in the direction of specular reflection .
If I had tried to touch up these photographs by means of water colours or other pigments , these would be made apparent by slightly turning the photograph ; these pigments remaining visible under every incidence , they would thus be seen to stand out on a colourless background .
Thus the touching up or falsifying by hand of a colour photograph is happily made impossible .
" Note on Photographing Sources of Light with Monochromatic Rays .
" By Captain W. de W. Abney , C.B. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received March 31 , \#151 ; Read April 30 , 1896 .
In a paper " On the Production of Monochromatic Light , " communicated to the Physical Society , and read on the 27th June , 1885 , and which appears in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' for August in that same year , I stated that by the apparatus then described a monochromatic image of the sun could be thrown upon the screen .
In the same periodical for June of the same year , Lord Rayleigh described a plan for obtaining a monochromatic image of an external object , in which a concave lens was placed behind the slit of a spectroscope to produce an image of the object in monochromatic colour , the object being viewed through an aperture placed in the spectrum produced by the apparatus .
I had been working independently at the subject at the same time , and my object was to get an image on a screen or photographic plate rather than to use the apparatus for visual observation .
When a lens is placed behind the spectrum in the manner described in the paper above referred to , a white image of the prism can be obtained on a screen placed at some distance from the lens , and the size of the image can be increased or diminished according to the focal length of the lens , and its distance from the spectrum .
Evidently , then , if an image of a luminous object can be cast on the surface of the prism , and a slit be placed in the spectrum , the image of the luminous object will be seen of the colour of the light passing through the slit .
There are devices adopted at the present time for photographing the sun with light of various wave-lengths , but , as far as I am aware , they depend upon moving the image of the sun across the slit of the spectroscope , the

