An Investigation of the Spectra of Bessemer Flames .
93 oxygen gases between the pressures mentioned has been investigated .
The results confirm the applicability of Boyle 's law .
In the case of oxygen nothing has been seen of the anomalies encountered by Bohr , especially in the neighbourhood of a pressure of 0-7 mm. " An Investigation of the Spectra of Flames resulting from Operations in the Open-hearth and ' Basic ' Bessemer Processes .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.B.S. , Royal College of Science , Dublin , and Hugh Damage , A.R.C.Sc .
L , St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Received November 15 , 1900 , \#151 ; -Read February 21 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) Three papers on " Flame Spectra , " by one of the authors , were published in the 'Philosophical Transactions ' for 1894 .
Parts I and II , " Flame Spectra at High Temperatures , " and Part III , " The Spectroscopic Phenomena and Thermochemistry of the Bessemer Process .
" The results in the last of these papers had reference to the phenomena observed in the flames of the " acid " Bessemer process ; the present paper deals mainly with an investigation of the Thomas-Gilchrist or " basic " process .
The Cleveland district of Yorkshire was chosen as the principal centre ; owing to the interest taken in the work by Mr. Arthur Cooper , Past President of the Iron and Steel Institute , and in consequence of the courtesy and attention shown us , the North Eastern Steel Company 's works at Middlesbrough were selected .
It was found necessary at the outset to have three observers at work simultaneously , and the authors were voluntarily and ably assisted by Mr. E. V. Clark , A.R.S.M. Photographs of the plant and the flames , at different periods of the blow , were secured by means of a small Anschutz camera and Goertz lens ; eye observations were made with a small direct-vision spectroscope ; photographs of spectra were taken with the spectrograph described in ' Philosophical Transactions , ' A , vol. 185 , p. 1047 , and the times of the exposures , \amp ; c. , were observed and recorded in a note-book .
This work was not accomplished without some difficulty , which was occasioned by the large quantity of lime dust blown into the air .
The spectroscopic results were quite different from those previously obtained , as the continuous spectrum was much stronger .
Many lines and bands new to the Bessemer flame spectra have been observed in addition to the spectra of the common alkali metals , iron , and manganese .
Thus rubidium , caesium , calcium , copper , silver , and gallium have been identified .
The crude iron , the ores , limestone , Prof. W. N. Hartley and Mr. H. Eamage .
lime , slags , flue dust , and the finished steel have all been analysed , and their constituent elements have been traced all through the process of manufacture .
While no indication was obtained of the amount of phosphorus in the metal during the process of " blowing , " some insight into the chemistry of the process has been obtained .
The greatest interest , however , is attached to the knowledge it has given us of flame spectra under variations of temperature , and of the wide distribution of many of the rarer elements in minute proportions in ores and common minerals.* Comparison of Spectra from Open-hearth and Cupola Furnaces .
Early in 1895 , by kind permission of Mr. F. W. Webb , the flame over the hearth of a Siemens ' open hearth steel furnace in Crewe works was examined spectroscopically , but no lines of metals except sodium were detected .
The continuous spectrum of the light emitted by the walls was very strong , and extended to wavedength 3470 .
Observations were also made at this time on the spectra of the flame above the charge in a cupola .
While the blast was turned on the flame was bluish , and lines of sodium , lithium , and potassium were observed .
When the blast was stopped , the flame became smaller and whiter , and the lines of the above elements became stronger ; the ends of the two strongest bands of manganese were also seen .
Description of the " Blow " and " Over the Basic Bessemer Process .
The converter is first charged with about two tons of lime in lumps , and then with twelve tons of fluid " mixer metal , " a mixture of metal coming direct from the blast furnace , and molten pig iron from the cupolas .
The blast is turned on and the vessel rotated into a nearly vertical position .
The " blow " may be divided into three stages .
The first stage ends when the flame drops , indicating that the carbon has been burnt .
The second stage ends when the vessel is turned down for a sample of metal to be taken out and the slag poured oft .
More lime is then added and the blow is continued for a few seconds longer to complete the removal of the phosphorus ; this forms the third stage .
The average duration of the first stage was twelve minutes and twenty seconds , and of the second stage , five and a half minutes .
The blow began with the expulsion of a large quantity of lime dust , which hid everything from view for a minute or two and covered * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 60 , pp. 35 nnd 393 ; ' Cliem .
See .
Trans. , ' 1897 , pp. 533 and 517 .
An Investigation of the Spectra of Bessemer Flames .
95 the instruments and observers .
A flame was visible at the mouth of the converter as soon as the cloud of dust had cleared away ; this had a yellow or yellowish-red colour .
The flame grew rapidly in length and remained clear as in the " acid " process , until it dropped and the second stage began .
In this stage the flame was very short , and a large quantity of fume was expelled from the vessel ; the flame grew longer and the quantity of fume increased as the " blow " proceeded .
Twenty-six plates of spectra were photographed ; some of these were very sharp and gave a complete record of substances present in the flame at intervals of one minute throughout the blow .
Careful measurements of the best spectra have been made , and the wavelengths of the lines and bands recorded .
The others , not measured in detail , have been compared with these , but no lines or bands occur in them which do not also occur in the best plates .
A plate of spectra was usually taken by giving the same time of exposure to each spectrum of the series until the flame dropped ; two further exposures were then made on the flame of the over-blow .
The spectra increase in intensity as the blow proceeds in the first stage , and this can only result from a corresponding increase in the temperature of the bath of metal and of the flame .
Much detail was lost in many of the spectra , by the interference of the light reflected from a large quantity of white dust and smoke in the air in the neighbourhood of the converters .
The converter nearest the observers was the only one of the four from which delicate detail was obtainable , and this was only secured by working in the evening when the sun was very low , or after it had set .
Considerable difficulty was experienced in the identification of some of the lines and bands .
This was due partly to the comparatively small dispersion in the less refrangible portion of the green and red rays , by which lines and the sharp edges of bands were almost indistinguishable on the strong continuous spectrum .
In other cases , lines were present which had not been observed in flame spectra before , some due to uncommon elements , and others were relatively much stronger than a study of the oxyhydrogen flame and other spectra of the same metals led us to expect .
Conclusions .
( 1 .
) Line spectra are not observed the open-hearth , This is attributed mainly to the fact that the atmosphere of the furnace is oxidising , and under these conditions , as Gouy has shown , * only sodium gives a spectrum approaching in intensity that which it gives in a reducing flame .
The D lines were observed by eye observation , but did not appear on the photographs .
* * Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 2 , 1877 , p. 15G .
96 An Investigation of the Spectra of Bessemer Flames .
( 2 .
) The phenomena of the " basic " Bessemer blow differ considerably from those of the " acid " process .
First , a flame is visible from the commencement of blowing , or as soon as the cloud of lime dust has dispersed .
We conclude that the immediate production of this flame is caused by carbonaceous matter in the lining of the vessel , that its luminosity is due partly to the volatilisation of the alkalies , and to the incandescence of lime dust carried out by the blast .
Secondly , volatilisation of metal occurs largely at an early period in the blow , and is due to the difference in composition of the metal blown , chiefly to the smaller quantity of silicon .
There is practically no distinct period when silicious slags are formed in the " basic " process , and metals are volatilised readily in the reducing atmosphere , rich in carbon monoxide .
Thirdly , a very large amount of fume is formed towards the close of the second period .
This arises from the oxidation of metal and of phosphorus in the iron phosphide being productive of a high temperature , but little or no carbon remaining .
The flame is comparatively short , and the metallic vapours carried up are burnt by the blast .
Fourthly , the " over-blow " is characterised by a very powerful illumination from what appears to be a brilliant yellow flame : a dense fume is produced at this time composed of oxidised metallic vapours , chiefly iron .
These particles are undoubtedly of very minute dimensions , as is proved by the fact that they scatter the light which falls on them , and the cloud casts a brown shadow , and , on a still day , ascends to a great height .
The spectrum is continuous , but does not extend beyond wave-length 4000 .
This indicates that the source of light is at a comparatively low temperature , approaching that of a yellowish-white heat .
We conclude , therefore , that the light emanates from a torrent of very small particles , liquid or solid , at a yellowish-white heat .
The " flame " can have but little reducing power at this stage , and this , together with its low temperature , accounts for the very feeble lines of lithium , sodium , potassium , and manganese seen in the photographs , or by eye observations .
Fifthly , the spectra of flames from the first stage of the " basic ' process differ from those of the " acid " process in several particulars .
The manganese bands are relatively feeble , and lines of elements , not usually associated with Bessemer metal , are present .
Both the charges of metal and of " basic " material contribute to these .
Lithium , sodium , potassium , rubidium , and caesium have been traced mainly to the lime ; manganese , copper , silver and gallium to the metal .
Other metals , such as vanadium and titanium , are not in evidence , because they clo not yield flame spectra ; they , together with chromium , pass into the slag in an oxidised state .
( 3 .
) Differences in the intensity of metallic lines .
I he intensity oi Mineral Constituents of Dust and Soot from various Sources .
97 the lines of any metal varies with the amount of the metal in the charge , but in some cases variations of intensity occur among the lines of one metal as observed in the spectra photographed at Crewe in 1893 ; especially is this the case with some lines in the visible spectrum of iron .
These variations are due to changes in temperature ; as the temperature of the flame rises , some lines fade almost away , others become stronger .
The changes are more marked in the arc spectrum and still more in the spark spectrum of iron .
Lines of potassium and the edges of manganese bands are shown to have been intensified by the proximity of iron lines in some cases , but this is doubtless a result of low dispersion .
The two violet rubidium lines nearly coincide with two lines of iron.* A new line of potassium with variable intensity .
This line , wave-length approximately 4642 , varies in intensity within somewhat wide limits .
In a given flame its brilliancy is increased by diminishing the quantity of metallic vapour in the flame : this does not appear to depend altogether on the weakening of the continuous spectrum ; it is probably due , in part at least , to the increased freedom of motion permitted to the molecules of the metal .
" The Mineral Constituents of Dust and Soot from various Sources .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , Royal College of Science , Dublin , and Hugh Ramage , A.R.C.So .
I. , St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Received November 20 , 1900\#151 ; Read February 21 , 1901 .
Baron Nordenskjold has described three different kinds of dust which were collected by him.f Of two of these , one consisted of diatomacese and another of a silicious and apparently felspathic sand : both were found on ice in the Arctic regions .
The third variety was quite different and appeared to be of cosmic origin .
He observed that some sand collected at the end of a five or six days ' continuous fall was mingled with a large quantity of sooty-looking particles , consisting of a material rich in carbon .
It appeared to be similar to the dust which fell , with a shower of meteorites , at Hessle near Upsala in the beginning of the year 1869 .
As in this particular instance it might be supposed that the railways and houses of Stockholm had contributed some of this matter to the atmosphere , and that the snow had carried it down , he requested his brother , who then resided in a desert district of Finland , to give his attention to the subject , with * ' Roy .
Ihiblin Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 8 ( N.S. ) .
Part VI , p. 705 .
f 4 Comptes Hendus/ vol. 78 , p. 236 .

