Mr. C. G. Williams .
[ Mar. I7r near the centre , and as the polarised ellipses are at an angle with the molecules of the central portions of the wire , its polarisation reacts upon them , producing the comparatively strong electric currents I have described .
III .
[ " On the Action of Sodium upon Chinoline .
" By C. Greville Williams , F.R.S. Received March 8 , 1881 .
In 1867 I made some experiments on the action of sodium upon chinoline and lepidine , and found that a substance was produced which dyed silk a beautiful but fugitive orange colour .
I announced this fact in a paper " On the Higher Homologues of Chinoline."* I made analyses of the products at the time , but the difficulties in the way of preparing them pure were so great , and the time at my disposal was so limited , that I did not make public any quantitative results until March , 1878 , when I published a short note " On the Action of Sodium on Chinoline and Lepidine."f In that paper I gave the results of an analysis of a product from chinoline , which agreed with the formula C18H14N2.HC1 , which is obviously that of the hydrochlorate of dichino-line .
I also gave an analysis of the nitrate of dilepidine , which agrees almost perfectly with the theoretical values ; but I did not enter into the details of the modes of preparation .
In the course of my investigation of / 3-lntidine , it was natural that I should study the action of sodium upon it , but I met with so many and unexpected difficulties that ' I determined to prepare myself for a new attack upon the subject by a fresh investigation of the action of sodium upon chinoline .
As I find that other observers are working upon chinoline , / 3-lutidine , and / 3-collidine , \#163 ; I have thought it desirable to bring before the Society the results obtained , although the investigation is still proceeding .
Action of Sodium upon Chinoline .
The action of sodium on chinoline is exceedingly remarkable , not merely because it polymerises the base , for a similar result , as is well known , takes place with picoline , but because the products have properties which are , I think , different from any yet observed among organic substances .
For a yellow oil like dichinoline to yield a true although fugitive dye , in the form of a brilliantly red crystalline * " Laboratory , " May , 1867 , p. 109 .
t " Chemical News , " March 1 , 1878 .
X Richard , " Bull .
Soc. Chim .
" [ 2 ] xxxii , 486\#151 ; 489 ; Boutlerow and Wischnegrad-sky , loc. cit. , No. 9 , June 5,1880 ; Oeclisner de Coninck , " Bull .
Soc. Cliim .
, Nos. 4 and 5 , p. 210 , September 5 , 1880 .
The latter chemist has repeated several of my older experiments , evidently under the impression that they had not been made befoie .
1881 .
] On the Action of Sodium upon Chinoline .
hydrochlorate , is probably a unique reaction .
To obtain this product .of the utmost beauty , it appears to be necessary that the chinoline should be perfectly free from any impurity , except , perhaps , its next homologue .
The most successful preparations were made from chinoline obtained from fine crystals of the chromate.* Chinoline prepared from the chromate is almost colourless , and becomes yellow , on keeping , with extreme slowness as compared with the base prepared without that precaution .
In the following experiments it is to be understood that all the chinoline was obtained from the crystallised chromate .
Chinoline was boiled with sodium , the fluid , which became purplish crimson , was treated with water , which at once converted the crimson colour into a dirty yellow .
Hydrochloric acid was then added , and the solution became of an intense orange colour .
The solution was boiled , filtered , and allowed to stand two days , the crystals of hydrochlorate of dichinoline were filtered off , and the mother-liquid was precipitated fractionally by solution of platinic chloride .
The first precipitate was of a light orange colour , the second a deep orange , the third Naples yellow , the fourth was in the form of a brown crystalline powder .
The platinum was determined in each with the following results:\#151 ; No. of precipitate .
Percentage of platinum .
I ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 22-59 II ... ... ... ... ... ... v ... ... . .
23-83 III ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 28-30 IV ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 28-59 The first result agrees with the numbers required for the formula\#151 ; 2(C18H14N2)HCl .
PtCl4 , which requires 22T8 per cent , of platinum .
The second is probably a mixture of the substance having the formula of the first precipitate with some of that having the formula of the third , which latter agrees fairly with a salt having the formula\#151 ; C18H14N2.3HCl .
PtCl4 , which requires 28*00 per cent , of platinum .
The formula\#151 ; C18Hi4N2.2HCl .
PtCl4 , requires 29'51 per cent. There are other formulae which agree with * It is much to be desired that those chemists who believe in the identity of .chinoline and leucoline , and who possess the latter in a pure state , would study the ; action of sodium upon it ; as , if it yields the crystalline scarlet hydrochlorate , the .question might be considered as settled .
538 Mr. C. Gr .
Williams .
[ Mar. 17y the numbers obtained , but they do not appear to me so readily admissible .
For instance , a substance having the formula\#151 ; 2(C18H14N2)PtCl4 , would require 23'13 per cent , of platinum , which would agree with the amount of metal obtained from the second precipitate , but the formation of such a substance in the presence of free hydrochloric acid appears most unlikely .
Nevertheless , it is remarkable that the platinum salts obtained from the products of the action of sodium on chinoline and / 3-lutidine , often agree in their percentages of platinum with substances having formulae of the polymerised bases united directly to-platinic chloride .
Action of Sodium Amalgam on Chinoline .
25 grms. of chinoline and 20 grms. of sodium amalgam containing 10 per cent , of sodium were mixed .
The action commenced in the cold , and red streaks appeared where the base and the amalgam were in contact .
When the action ceased in the cold , the mixture was warmed on the water-bath ; the reaction started again immediately , , and the whole became of a deep red colour .
No gas was given off .
The next day the mixture had assumed the consistence of thick treacle 'r when heated on the water-bath it softened , but the amalgam remained hard ; the fluid had turned from purplish red to yellow , but reddish streaks were still formed on stirring , showing that the reaction was-not complete .
s At this stage 5 grms. more amalgam were added .
After four or five hours of constant stirring on the water-bath the red streaks ceased to appear , and the whole became a greenish yellow oil , the greater portion of which was poured off , and the residue containing much undecomposed amalgam was treated with hot water .
The amalgam decomposed with violence , and when the action was over excess of hydrochloric acid was added , and the solution was boiled and filtered-Three liquors were taken off and kept separate from each other , each solution gave on cooling crystals of the hydrochlorate of dichinoline j. they were in the form of needles of so brilliant a scarlet that , on comparison with a sample of the finest vermillion , the latter looked brown by contrast with them .
The first soluMon yielded 1*1 grams of air-dried product , the second 0'4 , and the third 0*25 , in all l"75 grms-from 25 grms. of chinoline .
The scarlet crystals bleach on exposure to light and become pale brown on drying in the water-oven , and the brown colour itself rapidly bleaches on exposure to light .
The mother-liquors of the scarlet crystals on evaporation to a quarter of their , original bulk , deposited a pale yellow precipitate too small for analysis ; it was nearly insoluble in cold water .
The mother-liquors affording no further crystals on evaporation , were treated with excess of potash to enable the chinoline to be 1881 .
] On the Action of Sodium upon Chino line .
539 recovered ; 11 grins , were obtained , being 44 per cent , on the chinoline taken ; deducting the recovered chinoline from that originally employed , the produce of the scarlet crystals become 12 5 per cent , on the base originally taken .
Action of Sodium Amalgam on the Recovered Chinoline .
The recovered chinoline was dried by sticks of potash for a short time , and then rectified to see if its boiling-point had undergone any alteration by the treatment with sodium amalgam ; however , it came over at almost exactly the same point as it did before .
It is very remarkable that in spite of the fact last mentioned , the product of the action of the amalgam upon the recovered base was of a totally different character to that of the same reagent upon the original chinoline .
The 11 grms. of recovered chinoline were treated with 20 grms. of amalgam , effervescence took place , and much heat was developed ; this was possibly caused by traces ' of moisture remaining in the base .
When the effervescence was over , 5 grms. more amalgam were added , being in all 30 grms. for 11 of base , whereas in the first experiment equal parts of base and amalgam were used ; this fact has to be remembered in considering the causes of the different result .
The red coloration took place as before ; it is , however , a very ephemeral reaction , the colour on a glass rod soon disappears , and does so immediately on spreading the substance in a thin layer on the side of the beaker in which the operation is conducted .
The experiment was made precisely as with the original chinoline , and the reaction appeared to proceed exactly in the same manner as before ; but , on boiling out with dilute hydrochloric acid , the product of hydrochlorate of dichino-line was much smaller , and the crystals were too small to be distinguished as such by the naked eye .
The mother-liquors were treated with potash , as before , to enable the chinoline to be recovered , when to my surprise a solid yellow base was obtained , which on boiling some time with water to expel any adhering chinoline , became , on cooling , a hard resinous mass : on drying in the air it weighed 7 grms. , or 63 per cent , on the 11 grms. of recovered chinoline used .
In order to gain some insight into the nature of the new solid base , it was converted into a hydrochlorate and fractionally precipitated with platinic chloride .
1 grm. was dissolved in 50 cub. centims. of hot diluted hydrochloric acid , on cooling a part separated out ; this could have been prevented by a great excess of hydrochloric acid , but , on this occasion , the separation was permitted as a mode of purification .
The precipitate was filtered off , and some hydrochloric acid was added to prevent the water in the solution of platinic chloride from can sing a further precipitation .
On adding the pla- Mr. C. G. Williams .
[ Mar. 17 , tinum solution , a dense bright yellow precipitate was formed ; to the filtrate more platinum solution was added , and so on until four precipitates were obtained .
The second , third , and fourth were buff coloured , but the last on standing became of a dirty brown colour .
The two last were in too small quantity for analysis .
The first precipitate gave 18*47 per cent , of platinum .
Assuming for the present that the yellow solid base from the recovered chinoline is isomeric with that which yields the scarlet hydrochlorate , it may be mentioned that a salt having the formula\#151 ; 2 ( C18H,4N3)4HCl .
PtGl* would require 19*76 per cent , of platinum .
The second precipitate gave 23*49 per cent , of platinum , and yielded , therefore , almost the same percentage of the metal as the second precipitate obtained from the product of the action of sodium upon the original chinoline , and the remarks made upon that precipitate apply equally to the present one .
Experiments were subsequently made to ascertain if , in presence of excess of hydrochloric acid , platinum salts of a different constitution would be formed .
For this purpose 1 grm. of the new solid base was treated with 10 cub. centime , of strong hydrochloric acid , it dissolved with effervescence as if carbonic anhydride had been absorbed ; the solution took place with moderate readiness ; it was filtered and treated with solution of platinum as before , a bufl ' coloured precipitate was obtained ; at this point 10 cub. centims. more hydrochloric acid were added , the precipitate became smaller , 25 cub. centims. more hydrochloric acid were added at this stage , and the solution was heated to about 90 ' and filtered ; much of the platinum salt remained on the filter , and , after drying , gave 23*92 per cent , of platinum , the mother-liquid on cooling gave another precipitate containing 24*55 per cent , of platinum ; both these precipitates appear , therefore , in spite of the great excess of acid in which they were formed , to be constituted like the second precipitates previously obtained .
The solid yellow base contained 3*06 per cent , of ash , which consists of carbonate of lime with a trace of iron , both derived from the chemicals used in its preparation .
The solid base when heated fuses to a yellow oil , giving off precisely the same odour as chinoline compounds generally ; near a red heat it boils away leaving some carbon which , contrary to the usual rule in such cases , bums away readily .
Nitric acid dissolves the base easily , giving a reddish brown solution which on dilution with water affords a yellow precipitate ; ammonia turns the solution red , and partially dissolves the precipitate .
1881 .
] On the Action of Sodium upon Preparation of the Platinum Salt from the Scarlet of Dichinoline .
The scarlet hydrochlorate of dichinoline was dissolved in boiling-water , and precipitated while boiling by an excess of platinic chloride .
The high temperature of the solution was necessary to prevent the precipitation of the hydrochlorate with the platinum salt .
The latter was of a beautiful pale cadmium yellow colour .
The filtrate on cooling yielded fine needles in extremely small quantity .
The precipitate contained 24'54 per cent , of platinum , and probably , therefore , had the same composition as those before mentioned , containing the same or nearly the same amount of platinum .
The needles contained 35'7 per cent , of platinum , and it is most likely that the presence of a small quantity of this salt was the cause of the high platinum in the first precipitate .
A direct combination of dichinoline with platinic chloride\#151 ; C18H14N3.PtCl4 , would require 3311 per cent , of platinum , but it is not easy , as I have said before , to admit such a formula , when it is remembered that the precipitation took place in the presence of hydrochloric acid .
A salt of the formula\#151 ; 2(C18H14N3)HC1.2PtCl4 , would require 33'66 per cent , of platinum , and would only differ from the salt\#151 ; 2 ( C18H14N3 ) H Cl. PtCl4 , before alluded to , and which contains 22-18 per cent , of platinum , by containing one more equivalent of platinic chloride .
It must , however , be distinctly stated that the numbers in this paper are given provisionally , and that the subject is still under study .
Presents , March 3 , 1881 .
Transactions .
Eastbourne :\#151 ; Natural History Society .
Papers , 1879\#151 ; 80 .
8vo .
The Society .
Edinburgh :\#151 ; Geological Society .
Transactions .
Vol. III .
Part 3 .
8vo .
Edinburgh 1880 .
The Society .
Scottish Meteorological Society .
Journal .
New Series .
Nos. 55-59 .
8vo .
Edinburgh .
The Society .
Glasgow:\#151 ; Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Vol. XII .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Glasgow 1880 .
The Society .

