1886 .
] Estimation of Micro-organisms in the Atmosphere .
443 off DC equal to twice AD , from D erect a perpendicular , and with radius AC = 3DA cut off DP ; AC and AP are sides of the lozenge ACEP , which fulfils the required conditions .
It is manifest that from this lozenge the remaining two lozenges and also the six trapeziums can he immediately constructed .
The triangular pyramid which terminates the bee 's cell may be inscribed in a sphere whose diam , eter is three times the side of one of the edges of the pyramid .
The base of this pyramid is an equilateral triangle , the side of which is hV3 , and whose circumscribing circle has 2 hfor its diameter .
This diameter is a chord of the spherical segment whose versed sine is x. Hence , if D is the diameter of the sphere in which 2h is a chord , xD=/ i2 + a2 , but also h=2*/ '2x , and s=3x , whence D=9aj=3s .
We have also D = J !
L\gt ; 2A .
2v/ 2 Hence the sphere contains within it all that part of the bee 's cell bounded by the three lozenges , together with as much of the hexagonal prism as may be measured by twice the side of a lozenge on the shorter edge of the prism .
This result , together with the extremely simple mode now given for constructing the figure , divests the problem of the complexity and difficulty with which it was formerly sometimes regarded , and it may also possibly enable the naturalist to more readily explain the action of the bees in moulding the cells of the honeycomb to their observed shapes .
II .
" A New Method for the Quantitative Estimation of the Micro-organisms present in the Atmosphere .
" By PERCY F. Frankland , Ph. D. , B.Sc. , F.I.C. , F.C.S. , Assoc. Roy .
Sch .
Mines .
Communicated by Professor Frankland , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received November 15,1886 .
( Abstract .
) The author commences by giving a sketch of some of the more important methods which have been devised for the bacterioscopic examination of air .
In these he includes the experiments of Pasteur , who was the first to show that the air at different places varied in the number of micro-organisms which it contained , and of Tyndall , , who proved that the microbes suspended in the air become rapidly deposited in the absence of any disturbing influence .
He further 2 h 2 444 Dr. P. F. Frankland .
On the Estimation of [ Dec. 9 , describes the process of Freudenreich and Miquel for the quantitative estimation of the bacteria in air , and points out the great advance which has been made upon their method in the adaptation by Koch , and later by Hesse , of a solid nourishing medium for their investigation .
In reviewing these different processes he draws attention to the advantages and disadvantages attending them , and proceeds to describe a new method which he has devised , and in which he has endeavoured to overcome some of the objections to which the others are open .
The first experiments consisted in aspirating a definite volume of air through plugs of either glass-wool or sugared glass-wool , and mixing them by violent agitation with a definite volume of either broth or sterilised distilled water .
A portion of this liquid was then added to gelatine-peptone , and plates were poured in the usual manner .
In this way a much larger volume of air was capable of being examined than was possible by Hesse 's method , whilst at the same time the solid medium , with its advantages , was retained .
The experiments , however , show that although in many cases the results of two or more plates poured from the same mixture were fairly uniform , yet discrepancies did occur , and were sometimes very considerable , pointing to the fact that the organisms had not become evenly distributed throughout the liquid ; also as only a portion of the air aspirated was capable of being examined , a very much larger volume of air had to be used in order to give a sensible result .
This objection , which applies equally to Miquel 's method , which rests upon the assumption that it is possible to equally apportion out into a series of flasks or tubes the organisms contained in such a liquid , led the author to abandon the plate process , and to devise a method which should enable the whole volume of air aspirated to be examined .
The method consists essentially in aspirating a known volume of air through a glass tube , containing two sterile plugs , consisting either of glass-wool alone , glass-wool and fine glass-powder , glass-wool coated with sugar , or sugared glass-wool and fine sugar-powder .
The plugs are so arranged that the first one through which air is drawn is more pervious than the second .
After a given volume of air has been aspirated , the two plugs are transferred respectively to two flasks , each containing melted sterile gelatine-peptone , and plugged with sterile cotton-wool stoppers .
The plug is carefully agitated with the gelatine , so as to avoid any formation of froth , and when the plug has become completely disintegrated and mixed with the gelatine , the latter is congealed , so as to form an even film over the inner surface of the flask .
On incubating these flasks at a temp\#169 ; 1886 .
} Micro-organisms in the .
445 rature of 22 ' C. , in the course of four to five days the colonies derived from the organisms contained in the plugs make their appearance , and can be readily counted and further examined .
A large number of experiments were made with a view of testing the accuracy of the process .
For this purpose experiments were conducted , using sometimes single plugs , and sometimes double , and it was almost invariably found that all the organisms were deposited on the first plug , the second plug in the very exceptional cases when it did yield anything , containing rarely more than one organism .
In connexion with Hesse 's method , it was found that in experiments performed in the open air , when a blank Hesse tube was exposed side by side with the one through which air was being aspirated , a number of organisms also became deposited in the blank tube , thus introducing an important source of error in the quantitative results obtained by Hesse 's process .
In the flask method , on the contrary , such blank tubes rarely contained any organisms , and in no case more than a vanishing proportion of those present in the other tube .
This shows that , whereas in Hesse 's apparatus any disturbance of the air during the experiment vitiates the accuracy of the result , in the flask method such disturbances are immaterial .
On the other hand , in the absence of aerial currents , there was a remarkable concordance between the results obtained by Hesse 's method and by the " flask method .
" This is important , not only as showing the quantitative accuracy of the new method , but by clearly demonstrating that the organisms present in the air exist in an isolated condition , and not in aggregates , as suggested by Hesse .
It will be remembered that the plug is violently agitated with the gelatine-peptone , during which operation such aggregates would undoubtedly be broken up wholly , or , any rate , partially ; it would , therefore , be reasonable to expect that the " flask method " would yield a larger number , and possibly a far larger number of colonies than those formed in Hesse'S tubes , but as , on the contrary , the numbers agree , under the circumstances described , in so remarkable a manner , it points to the fact that they exist in an isolated condition .
The paper is illustrated with drawings and photographs .
The following are the principal advantages which the author claims for the " flask method .
" 1 .
The process possesses all the well-known advantages attaching to the use of a solid medium .
2 .
The results , as tested by the comparison of parallel experiments , can lay claim to a high degree of quantitative accuracy .
3 .
The results , as tested by control experiments , are not appreciably affected by aerial currents , which prove such a disturbing factor in the results obtained by some other methods .
4 .
The collection ot an adequate sample of air occupies a very 446 The Distribution of Micro-organisms in Air .
[ Dec. 9 , short space of time , so that a much larger volume of air can be conveniently operated upon than is the case with Hesse 's method .
Thus whilst the aspiration of 10 litres of air through Hesse 's apparatus takes about three-quarters of an hour , by the new method about 48 litres can be drawn through the tube in the same time , whilst a better plan is to take two tubes and alternately draw a definite volume of air through each , as by this means duplicate results are obtained .
5 .
As the whole ping , upon which the organisms from a given volume of air are deposited , is submitted to cultivation without subdivision , no error is introduced through the multiplication of results obtained from aliquot parts , and all the great difficulties attending equal subdivision are avoided .
6 .
The risk of aerial contamination in the process of is practically nil .
7 .
The apparatus required being very simple and highly portable , the method is admirably adapted for the performance of experiments at a distance from home , and in the absence of special laboratory appliances .
III .
" Further Experiments on the Distribution of Microorganisms in Air ( by Hesse 's method ) .
" By Percy I. Frankland , Ph. D. , B.Sc. , F.I.C. , F.C.S. , and T. G , Hart , A.R.S.M. Communicated by Professor FRANKLAND , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received November 22 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The authors record a number of experiments , made with Hesse 's apparatus , on the prevalence of micro-organisms in the atmosphere .
The results are intended to form a supplement to those already obtained by one of the authors , and published in the last volume of the Society 's 'Proceedings ' ( vol. 40 , p. 509 ) .
The greater number of the experiments have been performed on the roof of the Science Schools , South Kensington , the air of which has now been under observation at frequent intervals during the present year .
The authors point out the variations according to season , which have taken place in the number of micro-organisms present in the air collected in the above place .
The average results obtained were as follows

