]\gt ; On Dr. Johnstone Stoney 's Logarithmic Law of Atomic Veights .
By LORD RAYLEIGH , O.M. , ( Received July 3 , 1911 .
) In the year 1888 Dr. G. Johustone Stony communicated to the Society a memoir with title nearly as abov which , howevel , was not published in full .
At the request of the author , who attaches great importance to the memoir , I have recently , by permission of the Council , consulted the original manuscript in the archives of the Society , and I propose to give some extracts , accompanied by a few remarks .
The author commenced by the atomic of the elements taken as ordinates st a series of natural numbers as abscissa .
But a curve traced through the points thus determined was found to be " " one which has not been studied by mathematicians " " After many fruitless efforts to extract information from the curves so plotted down , it happily occurred to the author that when we want a geometrical equivalent for atomic weights , they will be even better represented by volumes than by lines .
a succession of spheres whose volumes are proportional to the atomic were taken , and the radii of these spheres were used as the radii vectoles of the polar diagram .
When this was done , the resulting figure\mdash ; see Plate once ggested the positive branch of the well-known logarithmic spiral of the second order , viz. : ( 2 ) , and cJose scrutiny has fully justified this suspicion .
To carry the investigation further , it was found convenient to use rectangular coordinates A large part of the paper is occupied with a discussion of the curve plotted to rectangular coordinates in Diagram II from the equation ( 3 ) , " " where being successively the several numbers and for this particular curve being 13 ) ; where also , and [ if we use logarithms with 10 as base in equation ( 3 ) ] \ldquo ; A referee remarks " " there is apparently a slip here : to make the formula agree with the results given as calculated from it , I find it needful to make , or itten in numerical form , the equation thus becomes * ' Boy .
Soc. Proc 1888 , vol. 44 , p. 115 .
1911 .
] Stoney 's rithmic Lof Atomic Weights .
" " If in the polar curve we make and , we obtain a logarithmic spiral presenting in a singularly convenient form the information which a Newlands and Mendeleeff 's table can supply , with the addition of also placing before the eye an intelligible representation of the atomic weights .
" " The quadrants are alternately electro-positive and ative , but while elsewhere the transition between these states is radual , it becomes abrupt between radius 15 and radius 1 .
The -negative state reaches its maximum in the elements which are ranged along what may be called the sesqui-radius 15 , i.e. radius 15 along with the inner portion of the opposite radius\mdash ; radius 7 , and is immediately followed upon sesqui-radius 1 by the elements which are in the hest degree electro-positive .
This sudden transition may have some connection with the fact that no elements have been found on sesqui-radius 16 , although the investigation in S3 shows that the values of corresponding to the stations on sesqui-radius 16 cannot be dispensed with The vacant places here pointed out are now occupied by the since discovered inert gases .
The anticipation is certainly a remarkable one , and it goes far to justify the claims made for the diagram , as representing in a telling form many of the leading facts of chemistry .

