" Investigation of the Power consumed in overcoming the Inertia of Railway Trains , and of the Resistance of the Air to the motion of Railway Trains at high velocities .
" By P. W. Barlow , Esq. , F.R.S. , M.I.C.E. The object of the author in this inquiry is to obtain a more correct knowledge than has hitherto been possessed of the resistances which the air opposes to the motion of locomotive engines at great velocities , and of the loss of force arising from increased back pressure and the imperfect action of the steam .
For this purpose he institutes a comparison between the velocities actually acquired by railway trains with those which the theory of accelerated motion would have assigned ; and his experiments are made not only on trains propelled by a locomotive engine , but also on those moving on the atmospheric railway , which latter affords valuable results , inasmuch as the tractive force is not subject to the losses at high velocities necessarily incident to locomotive engines .
A table is given of the theoretical velocities resulting from calculation founded on the dynamical law of constant accelerating forces , in the case of trains of various weights , impelled by different tractive forces , moving from a state of rest ; and is followed by another table of the observed velocities in Mr. Stephenson 's experiment on the Dalkey line ; the result of the comparison being that in a distance of one mile and a quarter , the loss of velocity is about one-half of the observed velocity .
A series of experiments on locomotive lines is next related ; but the comparison is less satisfactory than in the former case , because the tractive force cannot be so accurately estimated ; it is however sufficiently so to establish the fact , that the power lost by the locomotive engine below the speed of thirty miles per hour is so small as to be scarcely appreciable , and that the time and power which are absorbed in putting a railway train in motion is almost entirely required to overcome the inertia of the train , and does not arise from any loss or imperfection of the engine .
It appears , from these experiments , that above one-fifth of the whole power exertedis consumed in putting the train in motion at the observed velocity .
The author then enters into some general remarks on the effects arising from this source of loss of power , and the practical application of the knowledge thus obtained .
In the atmospheric railway , he finds that the tractive force of a fifteen-inch pipe is so small ( being less than half that of a locomotive engine ) , that the time of overcoming the inertia must limit the amount of traffic which can be carried on a single line , especially with numerous stations .
When : a great velocity is obtained , the tractive force of the locomotive is much reduced , and therefore a much greater velocity can be attained on an atmospheric railway .
The inquiries of the author into the amount of resistance exerted by the air on railway trains lead him to the , conclusion -that in the atmospheric railway the loss of tractive power of the piston ; from friction , &amp;c. is very inconsiderable ; and that the resistance , of ' the air is less than had been hitherto estimated , not exceeding , on an average , ten pounds per ton on the average weight of trains .
A tabular statement is then given of the results of the experiments made by the British Association , for the purpose of comparing them with those obtained by the author from his own observations , and more particalarly from his experiments on the Croydon Atmospheric Railway .
The general conclusion which he draws from this investigation is that the resistance of the air in a quiescent state is less than had been previously estimated , and that the ordinary atmospheric , resistance in railway progression arises from the air , being generally itself ' in motion , and as the direction of the current is almost always oblique , from its producing increased friction in the carriages themselves .
This kind of resistance will not increase as the square of the velocity ; and as it is the principal one , it follows that the resistance to railway trains increases in a ratio not much higher than the velocity , and that the practical limit to the speed of railway travelling ' is a question , not of force , .
but ' of safety .

