III .
A Letter of that curious Naturalist Mr. Henry Barham , R. S. S. to the Publisher , giving a Relation of a fiery Meteor seen by him , in Jamaica , to strike into the Earth ; with Remarks on the Weather , Earthquakes , &amp;c. of that Island .
SIR , A Ccording to your Request I have collected what I can remember , relating to a Meteor I saw in Jamaica about the Year 1700 , as I was riding one Morning from my Habitation situated about Three Miles North-West from St. Jago de la Vega : I saw a Ball of Fire , appearing to me of the Bigness of a Bomb , swiftly falling down with a great Blaze .
As I thought it fell into the Town ; but when I came within a quarter of a Mile of the Town , I saw many People gathered together a little to the Southward in the Savanna , to whom I rode up , where they were admiring at the Ground 's being strangely broke and ploughed in by a Ball of Fire , which , as they said , fell down there .
I observed there were many Holes in the Ground , one in the middle of the Bigness of a Man 's Skull , and five or six smaller Holes round about it , of the Bigness of a Man 's Fist , and so deep ( especially the biggest ) as not to be fathomed by what long Switches or Sticks they had at hand .
I did not hear that any was so curious as to make any farther Search : It was observed , that the green Grass was perfectly burnt near the Holes , and a strong Smell of Sulphur remained thereabouts for a good while after .
Note that we had a terrible rainy Night before , with much Lightning and great Thunder-Claps , which we have very frequently in Jamaica , often killing Cattle in the Fields .
Mr. Henry Lord , who lives at Dry-River , had two Sons ( big Boys ) struck dead with Lightning , in 1716 , without any Wounds or Appearance of Hurt found about them .
And as these Claps are much louder and stronger than any I ever heard in Europe , so are our Showers of Rain , pouring down in a most violent manner .
We have Lightning all the Year round , but our great Rains are in the Months of May , August , and October .
I knew May for two or three Years without Rain , which was looked upon as a great Wonder ; and we paid dear for it in our Indigo : for a Catterpillar appeared and wove a fine Silk about the Indigo-Plant , and destroyed it all , hurting nothing else .
May-Rains used to destroy these Worms .
August and October never go out without a Flood , we having then universal Rains , all over the Island , coming from the Sea : For we have often Rains in the Mountains from the Clouds lodging there , when we have none in the Lowlands .
Our Island is full of Mines , and , if searched into , I question not but very rich .
We are very subject to Earthquakes , several happening every Year , especially after great Rains , which fill up all our great Cracks in the Surface of the Earth : For in a very dry Time , we have them so very large , deep , and gaping so open and wide , that it is dangerous to ride over some Parts of the Savannaes , for fear a Horse should get his Legs into them .
Our Earthquakes make a Noise or Rumbling in the Earth , before we feel the Shake ; and seem to run swiftly to the Westward .
This is all I can inform you of this kind at present , relating to the Island of Jamaica , being ever ready to show how much I am , &amp;c. Decemb. 19 .
Henry 'Barham :

