On the Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
179 If By what path such stimulation affects the motor nuclei we do not know , but lesions of this region give rise to a limited degeneration in the pallial tract .
A second situated on the lateral aspect of the surface of the brain , at a point corresponding to the junction of the great striate and occipital tracts .
Stimulation of this area gives rise to complicated movements , which consist chiefly of deglutition , often accompanied by actual pecking and by a rotation of head and neck .
No other motor symptoms were noticed on carefully stimulating the surface of the brain .
Nor is any motor defect observed after removal of one hemisphere .
After removal of both hemispheres , a condition follows which has been carefully studied by Schrader , and with the description of this author we fully agree .
The symptoms vary according to the time which has elapsed since the operation .
In the early stage the animal is markedly inert , stands with flexed head , ruffled feathers , and eyes shut ; the lack of initiative is pronounced .
In the later stage it constantly walks about , and is in a condition of continual unrest , yet always avoids obstacles , and can maintain its equilibrium in various positions .
The relative importance of the mesencephalic spinal system of fibres led us to examine the animals after injury of the optic vesicles for indications of motor defect .
Contrary to what has been noticed in higher animals , we are of opinion that whilst a slight lesion is not followed by any observable motor defect , more pronounced injury gives rise to a weakness on the opposite side , so that the animal falls to that side .
If the lesion be very severe , the animal is quite unable to stand , and lies continually on its back .
" ( \gt ; n the Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
Fifth Note .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 29 , \#151 ; Read December 15 , 1898 .
In a previous communication upon this subject , I gave* the results obtained in an experimental examination of the antagonistic correlation which at least potentially exists in the muscular action of the opening of the palpebral aperture .
The orbicularis palpebrarum and the levator palpebrce superiorisare to a certain extent an antagonistic couple .
During the course of last year I took opportunity to examine the co-ordination of the same antagonistic muscles in the movement , not of # 'Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 17 , p. 27 , 1894 .
VOL. LXIV .
P 180 On the Reciprocal Innervation of Antagonistic Muscles .
the opening of the palpebral fissure , but of its closure .
The observations having been unavoidably interrupted by removal to a new laboratory , it is only recently I have been able to confirm the preliminary observations on a sufficiently extended scale .
The monkey and the cat have been the animals employed .
Under deep chloroform narcosis intracranial section of the Vllth cranial nerve was performed at the point where the nerve plunges into the petrosal portion of the temporal bone .
In three instances the nervus and the pars intermedia , were also severed with the facialis .
In every case the side selected for operation was the left .
The facial palsy caused was not detectable so long as the narcosis was maintained .
As that was gradually recovered from , asymmetry of expression , \amp ; c. , became marked .
In those instances in which both the facialis and octavus had been severed , there appeared among the symptoms the following:\#151 ; Rotatory nystagmus of the left eyeball , some inequality of the pupils\#151 ; the left being the smaller , some degree of impotence of the eyeballs to move so far to the right as to the left , or , expressed more objectively , the eyeballs were never observed to move freely to the right of the primary visual position , although they frequently moved well to the left ; they certainly never moved far to the right ; the animals rolled over about the long axis of the body , as mentioned in Magendie 's original description of the effect of unilateral section of the pons .
The direction of rotation , if traced from the supine position as starting point , was towards the animal 's right side , so that that side next after the back lay undermost .
The monkey clutched hold of things within reach , with the apparent intention of preventing itself from rolling .
If it failed to obtain some support the rolling would continue through a series of complete turns .
This was the condition immediately after complete recovery from the narcosis , and at that time the left knee-jerk was less brisk than the right ; on the latter side it appeared to be abnormally brisk , but it is difficult to fix a normal .
The actual existence of section , and whether it had included both nerves or only one , was always determined by subsequent post-mortem dissection .
As to the eye closure , while the animal was exhausted , or sleepy , or only partially recovered from the chloroform narcosis , there was no obvious difference between the appearance of the eyelids on the two sides , as they rested half open over the globes .
When the animal blinked , however , under these conditions , the palpebral opening of the right eye closed , but not that of the left\#151 ; at least not to any easily perceptible extent .
When on the contrary the animal was fully awake and active , with both eyes well opened , it was seen that as the right eye blinked the left eye also did so .
By blinking I understand the rapidly executed movement of closure which occurs so repeatedly without attention being directed to it , although it can be voluntary restrained\#151 ; Densities of " Atmospheric \amp ; c. the quick movement which may be regarded as an irregularly recurring reflex that doubtless has among its objects the renewal of moisture on the corneal surface , which otherwise would become dry .
This natural blinking movement seems in the monkey not to employ the orbital portion of the orbicularis J'palpebrarum , but only the palpebral .
It occurs habitually as a bilateral and symmetrical movement .
It is far less extensive in action than the closure of the palpebral opening , which ensues when the monkey grimaces on being threatened with a blow .
That in the blinking the contraction of the palpebral part of the orbicularis is not however the whole of the muscular mechanism at play , is clear from the fact , that in the awake and active animal with fully opened eyes , the blinking still remains bilateral , subsequent to section of the facialis nerves of one side .
The blinking by the right eye was of course normal in character .
As the right eye blinked , the upper lid of the left eye quickly dropped three to four millimetres over the globus of that side , and was then synchronously with the lifting of the right upper lid lifted again .
The left lower lid was not on any occasion detected to move at all .
The quick fall of the upper lid of the left eye must have been due under these circumstances to inhibition of the tonus of the left levator palpebrte superioris muscle .
This brings the co-ordination of the reaction into line with that which I have described for other movements under the term reciprocal innervation .
It is interesting that Panas , Sappey , Fuchs , Wilmart and others , who have carefully and particularly studied the mechanism of the closure of the eye , have not attributed any share to an inhibition of the levator palpebrae ; one physician , however , Dr. Lor , of Brussels , has argued that in the closure of the human eye such an inhibition does under certain circumstances occur .
" Note on the Densities of ' Atmospheric Nitrogen/ Pure Nitrogen , and Argon .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. Received December .3 , \#151 ; Read December 15 , 1898 .
M. A. Leduc in a recent paper* has discussed the relation between the density of argon , its proportion in atmospheric nitrogen , the den-f y o the alter , and that of pure nitrogen .
It appears to me that he has misunderstood some of the data given by Lord Rayleigh , Dr. c las , and myself ; .and as the question whether the found density of argon corresponds with that calculable from the other data , is in itself SocietyreSting 'ne ' 1 haVe the h'nour to Present this note to the * " Beeherches sir les Gaz , " 'Ann .
China .
Plijs .
, ' September , 1898 .

