152 Dr. Granbaiim and Prof. Sherrington .
[ May 25 , " Observations on the Physiology of the Cerebral Cortex of the Anthropoid Apes .
" By A. S. F. Grunbaum , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , and C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.E.S. Received May 25 , \#151 ; Read June 11 , 1903 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University of Liverpool .
) Since presenting our former note on this subject , we have obtained .some further observations , though the number is still less than we should wish , owing to the rarity and expense of- the material .
Our further observations have been upon five chimpanzees of the commoner variety , and upon one more orang .
The statements given in our former communication have been confirmed in all respects by our observations obtained since then .
We .
can , further , now make the following statements in addition :\#151 ; The whole of the surface of the " island of Reil " has proved " inexcitable " under faradisation with currents even considerably more intense than those sufficing to excite muscular movements when applied to the pre-central convolution .
This is noteworthy because the large extent of the insula is a character distinguishing the brain of the anthropoid apes from that of the lower apes , and bringing it nearer toward the human type .
Faradisation of the cortex of the inferior frontal convolution in either hemisphere has failed in our hands so far to elicit movements of any satisfactory degree of regularity or constancy ; and this even under use of currents much stronger than those which suffice when applied to the " motor " cortex proper .
The movements for which , in particular , careful search was made , were those connected with vocalisation .
From the posterior region of the convolution , at scattered points , and without constancy even at them , strong faradisation occasionally seemed to-induce movements in the larynx , distinguishable from the rhythmic of respiratory origin .
Judging from such evidence as we altogether obtained , we conclude that either ( 1 ) no Broca " speech centre , " at all distantly foreshadowing the human , exists in these anthropoid brains , , or ( 2 ) that direct faradisation of the Broca speech cortex is inefficient itself to evoke vocalisation .
These two inferences , are , of course , not mutually exclusive , and both the suppositions may be correct .
Repeated observations on excitation of the cortex of the pre-central convolution confirm an opinion we had formed at the time of our former communication , and indicated in the diagram then furnished , , but not verbally expressed .
This is to the effect that the anterior limit of the " motorfield is not of sharp , abrupt character , but fades off forward somewhat gradually .
This edge extends further forward under " Bahnung " Under general conditions producing lowered 1903 .
] On the Cerebral Cortex of the Anthropoid 153 excitability of the cortex- it retires backward in the direction of the central fissure .
In a similar manner the boundary of the area for any particular movement , may by " Bahnung " be extended beyond its average limit .
The special form of movement provoked from a given spot of cortex is thus influenced by the particular forms of movement excited from neighbouring points just antecedently .
Among movements elicited from the cortex of the " facial " region , we have in two instances seen protrusion of the tongue , succeeded by forcible closure of the jaws following rapidly before retraction had withdrawn the tongue behind the arcades of the teeth ; so that in these instances the tongue was caught by the closure of the teeth .
This sequence of movements presents interest , as evidencing that a sequence of movement evoked by excitation of the cortex may exhibit in some respects faulty co-ordination .
The movement , is also of interest as a result of direct cortical excitation which harmonises with the biting of the tongue in epileptic seizures .
Ablation of the facial area of the " motor " region was performed in one individual .
A crossed hemiparesis ensued in the lips , cheek , tongue , nasal fold , and lower eyelid ( very slight ) , but not in the upper lid , eyebrow , or frontal region .
As to the recovery of movement that occurs in a limb rendered paretic by ablation of its cortical area in the " motor " region , we find the following points : If all the area , which when faradised evokes movements of fingers , thumb , and wrist primarily , and not as a later sequel to movements starting elsewhere , be excised , the paretic condition of the hand which ensues is severe , but rapidly diminishes .
In a few weeks the hand is again very fairly and freely used .
If , then , the whole of the corresponding area in the opposite hemisphere is removed , a similar paresis similarly ensues in the other hand , and runs a similar course ; but this second lesion does not produce , so far as we have been able to discover , the slightest recrudescence of the paresis already recovered from in the first hand .
On the contrary , the first hand is almost at once employed more freely and successfully than prior to the second operation , presumably because of greater inducement to use it during the disability existing in the second hand .
If , then , later , after the second hand has regained its use , the remaining part of the arm area first operated upon be ablated , this causes no obvious recrudescence of paresis either in the first hand or in the second hand .
It causes severe paresis at shoulder , and to some extent at elbow , on the side crossed to the lesion , but this , again , is in great part of temporary character , and is largely recovered from .
In accord with the absence of recrudescence of the hand paresis on ablating in the third operation the remaining intact part of the arm area , we found that faradisation of that part ( elbow and shoulder ) provoked , as Dr. Griinbaum and Prof. Sherrington .
[ May 25 , usual , movements of elbow and shoulder , but not of hand itself , or only of hand late in a general arm movement , and that very rarely .
In short , neither the ablation or the excitation methods gave any evidence that the remaining part of the arm area had taken on the functions of the ablated hand area .
The recovery of hand movement seems , therefore , not due to either the adjacent cortex of the same hemisphere , or to the corresponding hand area of the cortex of the opposite hemisphere , taking on the functions of the ablated cortical hand area .
Faradisation of the cortex of the post-central convolution , though Sale .
Central .
Ams , * V*gina- Sulc.precentr : marg .
SvZc.cobVLoso marg.'* .
SuZc.parieCo occip .
C.S.S. del .
not like the pre-central itself eliciting movement , when employed at certain places facilitates the elicitation of movement by faradisation at certain points at about the same horizontal level in the pre-central convolution .
In other words , from certain parts of the post-central convolution , a facilitating influence ( Bahnung ) can he exerted upon somewhat adjacent parts of the pre-central convolution .
Removal of the adjacent levels of the pre-central convolution does not render the post-central convolution " excitable ; " that is to say , destruction of the pre-central convolution does not make it the more possible to obtain movements under faradisation from the post-central convolution .
The motor cortex of the infant chimpanzee , a few weeks old , is 1903 .
] On the Cerebral Cortex of the Anthropoid Apes .
155 readily excitable by faradisation .
Its reactions do not appear to differ obviously in this respect from those obtainable from the adult .
The movements it yields are not choreiform in character .
The spinal degeneration ensuing upon ablation of the arm area of the motor cortex of the chimpanzee , although it sometimes reveals a large uncrossed ventral pyramidal tract ( direct Pie .
Tr. ) , does not do so in every case .
Even after bilateral arm area lesions , the ventral pyramidal degeneration in the spinal cord maybe very slight .
The anthropoid cord resembles the human , therefore , not only in the possession of this tract , but in exhibiting in regard to it a remarkable degree of individual variation of development as Flechsig showed to be the case in man .
The expenses of this research have been in part defrayed by a grant kindly allowed by the Scientific Grants Committee of the British Medical Association .
DESCRIPTION O EI\amp ; UR .
Brain of a chimpanzee ( Troglodytes niger ) .
Left hemisphere ; mesial surface .
The extent of the " motor " area on the free surface of the hemisphere is indicated by the black stippling .
On the stippled area " LEG- , " indicates that movements of the lower limb are directly represented in all the regions of the " motor " area visible from this aspect .
Such mutual overlapping of the minuter sub-divisions exists in this area that the diagram does not attempt to exhibit them .
The pointing line from " Anus , etc. , " indicates broadly the position of the area whence perineal movements are primarily elicitable .
Sulc .
Central .
= central fissure .
Sulc .
calcarin .
= calcarine fissure .
Sulc .
parieto occip .
= parieto-occipital fissure .
Sulc .
calloso marg .
= calloso-marginal fissure .
Sulc .
precentr .
marg .
= pre-central marginal fissure .
The single italic letters mark spots whence , occasionally and irregularly , movements of the foot and leg { ff ) , of the shoulder and chest ( s ) , and of the thumb and fingers ( h ) have been evoked by strong faradisation .
Similarly the shaded area marked " EYES " indicates a field of free surface of cortex which under faradisation yields conjugate movements of the eyeballs .
The conditions of obtainment of these reactions separates them from those characterising the motor " area .

