]\gt ; Messls .
J. .
Swan and J. Absolute [ May 24 , more or less success , of many other forms of this combination , incIudlng some in hich very porous hoJlow carbon poles were used and through which the chlorine was forced , but eifects obtained were less than those recorded .
research has proved that it possible form pyro-batteries of the Upward type , it is extremel difficult to reaXise the conditions required for effective action .
In a future communication I hope to record the results of experiments made , with a view utilise oxygen as a depolariser in connexion with cells with fused es .
VII .
" " Measurements of the Absolute Specific Resistance of Pure Electrolytic Copper By J. W. and J. RHODIN .
Communicated by Lord RAYLEIGH , Sec. B.S. Received Februaly 28 , 1894 .
At the of 1893 it resolved to make some very careful .
of the speciiic resistance of pure ] ectrolybic copper , drawn into wlre without previous fusion .
Besearches made during the latter end of 1892 had shown that the specific resistance of electrolytic copper val.ies considerably .
The resistance of about thirty wires of the same length and diameter , made from specimens of electrolytic copper , prepared in different ways in the showed differences of resistance amounting to a maximum of cent. , both when in a hard and when in a soft or annealed state , and measured at the same temperature .
These preliminary ements were made by mearls of a Wheatstone 's bridge , constructed for comparing the unknowlJ resistances of short well-conducting wires with the resistance of a standardised platinoid wire , according to Thomson 's method .
The racy ob- tainable by this method was per .
The best specimens of wlre were ected to a further and still more accurate examination .
The measurements of specific resistance and temperature coefficient of one of these wires , and of some wire made the same copper , after undergoing a second electrolytic refining , form the subject of this paper .
It was resolved to make measurements giving an ultimate accuracy of per cent. As they were intended to be absolute , the first problem was the determination of the exact dimensions of the wires to be measured .
measurement of Iength was made by means of direct comparison with standard metre rule ; that of the diameter was detel.mined by the specific gravity method , which consists in finding the absolute weight of a known length of wire and its density or unit volums lveight determined from its .
spccific gravity , and then ] ating its diameter .
1894 .
] Resistance of Pure tic 65 In the determination of the specific gravity , both the hydrostatic method and the picnometer method were used .
The latter method was found to give more lrate results .
A point of.great importance was the estimation of t , he temperature of the specl mens during measurement .
To obtain as reat accuracy as possible the tnre 1 , an apparatus similar to a calorimeter was employed for enclosing the coil of wire whilst it was measured .
thermometer divided in tenths of centigrade was used , plnced in the vessel containing sample of wire .
It was read at a dist , ance by means of a telescope .
The ement is represented by fig. 1 .
It consists of three FIG. 1 .
cylindrical tinned iron vessels arranged concentrically one insidc the other .
The section of the two outer vessels ( fig. 1 ) is ished by the shadin from that cf vesse13 .
essels formed three vaterVOL .
LVI .
6 Messrs. J. W. Swat ] and J. Rhodin .
Absolute [ May 24 , tight compartments .
Jackebs 1 and 2 were filled with water , and vesse13 with paraffin oil a flashing-point of C. To stir liquids , three circular rings of wire were enclosed , one in each of tlJe compartments .
rings were suspended on the iron wires , \amp ; c. The iron wires themselves were fixed on a bar of brass , .
By means of the crank of an ] ectromotor ( and and pulleys , the bar could be moved up and down , stirring each the liquids .
To make the motion easy a balance veight , , was used .
The coil to be measured was enclosed in comment 3 .
This meant was closed at the top by a hollow lid of tinned iron , pierced with ] holes to allow for the passage of stirring rods , \amp ; c. This lid effectually protected the paraffin oil from surface cooling .
The two holes , , made to allow the wires connecting the ends of the coil to pass out , were ] ined with ebonite to prevent contact with the metal of the lid .
The thermometer , was let down through a tnbe in the middle of the lid .
As a proof of the effectiveness of the arrangement , it may be mentiolled that a small Bunsen burner when burning at its full power , and placed under compartmenb " " 1 " " raised the temperature of the inner one " " \ldquo ; only C. in thirty seconds , a length of time more than sufficient for making a resistance determination .
When the temperature in " " 3 " " had been raised to C. and then allowed to cool ( being constantIy stirred ) , the temperature ( in " " 3 only fell to C. in twenty-four hours , the temperature of the laboratory was only C. Another important detail was an arrangement for securing the wires whilst they were measured .
Fig. 2 represents this .
It consists FIG. 2 .
of a piece of ebonite tube 5 cm .
diameter , with a deep ] thread on the outside .
It was pierced all over with large holes 1 cm .
diameter , to ] the paraffin oil to freely circulate in the lnside , where the thermometer was inserted .
A short rod of e'oonite ( p ) was put and across the cyIiuder at the bottom .
The wire to be measured was bent l.ound this cross rod , so that equal pecific Rof Copper .
67 lengths were hanging dbwn .
The double bent wire was then wound up in the double thread , and secured at the top by means of string ; the influence of ] -induction was thus avoided .
Eitch wire had four termitlals , the main terminals , and the shunt ter- minals , which were soldered to pieces of stout copper , the distance between which determined the length of the wire under examination .
, reeIs snved the wires from being hardened or otherwise injured .
The length of the wire taken both before and after the electrical measul.ement .
In some eal'lier experiments when mica strips were used coiling the wire upon , great differences were .
When the ebonite reels were employed hardly any difference could be observed .
ical measurements were mado by the fall of potential lnethod , refined as much as is possible .
A D'Arsonval galvanometer employed as an indicator of potential difference .
The " " dead beat\ldquo ; property of this instrument is an advantage which in this class of measurement cannot be over-rated .
Finding the firsb experiments with the D'Arsonval galvanometer , that its sensitive- ness was not sufficient for our purpose , the upper suspension was engthened very considerably .
The coil was made to hang on the upper wire , the wire the coil 1oeing left slack .
By this means the required of sensitiveness was obtained .
The galvanometer readings were made by of a telescope and scale , a plane mirror being attached to the galvanometer coil .
To gain the advantage of using very small deflections , the scale and galvanometer were widely separated , the distance between them was 8 .
The largest deflections used were 600 divisions of the scale ( each division in corresponding to ( at that distance from the mirror ) an angle of , which falls within the limits :\mdash ; ( 1 .
) { an 2 aItgle lgle angle .
The readings of the deflections were found to be proportional to the P.D. by direct and carefn ] made measnrements , they were always read in two directions , and the sum taken as the deflection ; accuracy was thus doubled , and possible error by displacement of the zero point avoided .
The limit of sensitiveness of the galvanometer 1 scale division deflecbion oo ampere , or ampere ( accuratcly ) .
The resistance of the suspended coil was 10 ohms .
The time refor the coil to come to rest about two seconds .
The dittgram the arrangement for making the measurements .
They were made by direct comparison between a standal.d ohm and the various coils to be measured , and snch a ltlanner that error due to the of the leads was ated .
68 Messrs. J. W. Swan and J. Rhodin .
Absoluie [ May 24 , FIG. 3 .
The following is a description of the was a single lead and lead peroxide element , of a comparatively large capacity ( 80 ampere hours ) .
It was fonnd necessary to have the capacity of the cell tolerably to avoid the necessity of making too large corrections for the fall of in the itself between different observations .
By means of a mercury contact key , , the battery could be short-circuited through a nickel wire resistance ( of aboub 6 ohms ) , the staudard obm and the to be measured X. All these resistallccs were in .
( The in the main circuit was only or ampere , and did not ar.y sensible heating of the ious resistances .
) By means of the cul.rent reverser , ( a mercul.y switoh ) , the current direction could be easily changed .
The galvanomeber , , was connected with another mercury switch , , by means of which it could be put in shunt to the ndard ohm and X alterlately in rapid succession .
In the galvanomeber circuit the ].esistbox , , was inserted in order to rendel it possible to make the deflections nearly equal when X diffcred considerably R. 1894 .
] of Pnre El Copper .
69 The method of .
a determination was as follows : was placed iu the position which made the galvanometer circuit a shunt of the standard ohm .
RB was adjusted so as to make the deflection cf a collvenient amount by placing in a resistance .
been determined by means of preliminary experiments ) .
Then was pressed and a dellection of the galvanometer " " \ldquo ; observed .
The current was then reversed , and a deflecbion " " \ldquo ; observed .
was then placed in the observation table under the heading .
The key opened .
The temperature of observed and noted .
2nd , was then placed in the position which made the galvallometer cuib a shunt to X. RB adjusted to make deflections of a suitable size by putting in a total of ( determined by previous experiment ) .
ThellK was pressed down , and the deflection observed , the curl'ent was then reversed , and a deflection observed .
was then put down in the table under the heading .
The temperature of X observed and noted .
3rd observation .
No. 1 repeated .
4th , , 2 A set of measurenlents like these were made in 20 seconds , thanks to the dead-beat quality of the galvanometer , and the easy manipulation of the mercury .
Ib is evident that , ?
the lvanometer xactly pto the current , and if tloe : of the !
} circuif ?
snfficiently high to be lected , the potential difference of the did not alter between errations 1 ihe resistance X can be put 2 .
) X resistance of the galvanometer resistance of galvanometer leads .
The rtionality of the galvanometer deflections with the limited range employed was , as previously stated , experimentally proved .
The conductivity of the galvanometer as a shunt negligible , as is evident from the facb that it was more than 2000 obms resistance ( when a minimum ) , and diminished the total resistance of the main circuit about 1/ 8000 ohm ( it was shunted ohm ) , the resistance of the main cuit ato 8 ohms .
The fall of potential of the lmulator was very seldom appreciable during one set of meastlrements .
This will be seen from the identity betweeIl observabions 1 and 3 and 4 respectively tables .
When appreciable a correction was pplied .
Whell all the arrangements were completed , a determination of the speciiic resistance of the best specimen of coppel ( marked " " A was made .
Origin of the Copper.\mdash ; The copper was deposited in a large 70 .
J. W. and J. Rhodin .
; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; 1894 .
] Specific Resis tance of Pnre trolytic C. 71 tank from of copper solution prepared pure crystallised of copper , pure ] phuric acid , and distilled .
The anode a large plate of commercial electrolytic copper , and the cathode was a polished plate of rolled coppel1 .
Before the cathode in the bath it was .
by rubbing il over with a solution of cyanide of silver cyanide .
This coating of silver was converted into iodide of silver by means a solution of iodine potassium iodide .
As is well known , this tl'eatment renders the stripping of the deposit from the cathode an easy matter .
On this cathode copper was deposited to a thickness of mm. , and then the deposit was stripped off .
Several deposits made and tested oughly , as stated in the beginning of his paper .
The besl of them was one marked " " of the was cut from the deposited sheet of copper , filed round , and then ough sapphire dies to a diameter of approximately in .
hese determinations were made by means of the hdrostalc balance principle .
A re-determination of the specific gravity of the copper I in the above table was made by means of a picnometer .
Picnomeber distilled H at C. grams .
specimen , , , , Specimen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
weight of displaced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Specific gravity As is seen from the above numbers , the specific gravity of copper when it is pure varies very little with hardness and other conditions , the val.iations at a maximum only amounting to of the whole .
The mean of the above esults may , therefore , be taken as the specific avity of this copper at C. mean is specific gravity .
This value is not the one required for the calculation of the dimellsion of wires ; what is is the density or absolute weight of an ideal cubic cellbimetl.e of the metal at C. The weight of 1 .
of water at C. is , to Kohlrausch , Phy ' gram .
The specific gravity of the copper divided by this figute gives the density:\mdash ; Weight .
of copper at C. .
of eposit \ldquo ; at betireen .
and hard-drawn ) of the deposit was measured by the apparatus described .
mining 72 .
J. W. Swan and J. Rhodin .
Absolute [ lIay 24 , the di meter a piece 300 cm .
was taken .
The weight was found to be\mdash ; The ascertained density of the copper being indicates an average diameter of\mdash ; ( 3 .
) cm .
at C. This same lvire was fitted with shunting minals 2 cm .
apart , and wound on one of the previously described reels , and then placed in the circuib .
A large number of observations were made at different temperatures : they are arranged in Table II .
The ] owin are the headings of the coInmns : of the unknown resistance ; deflection ( proportional to the current ) with the unknown resistance ; deflection when standard ohm in circuit ; temperature of staIldard ohm ; deflection of unknown resistance ( supposing to be always 1240 ) ; column ) deilection with unknown resistance ( X ) in circnit corrected .
so as to compare with at 1240 and at C. ; the figures in this multiplied by a constant give the resistance of { he wire .
Table II .
\ldquo ; ' 1 : 1894 .
] Speciftc Resistanc of Pure Elecrol tic Table II\mdash ; continued .
74 Messrs. J. W. wan and J. Rhodin .
Absolute [ May 24 , The absoIute specific resistance in C.G.S. units was calcuIated from the above numbers as follows .
The resistance in ohms of the measured wire at any temperattlre is found by using Equation No. 2:\mdash ; ( 4 .
) R. From the definition of the , and that of specific resistance in C.G.S. units , formula 5 is deduced:\mdash ; whel e radius of the wire in centimetres .
If the value of X as given in Equation No. 2 is substituted No. 5 , the following is obtained:\mdash ; ( 6 .
) In the previous table if is read as in the last , the following will be the values for the various elements of Equation No. 6:\mdash ; .
units for all observations .
1 ohm . .
Scale divisions for all observations .
In Equation No. 6 evel.ything is constant except and , and the equation resuIts in the following , tvhen the numerical values as above are substituted for the general expressions:\mdash ; ( 7 .
) The specific resistance in C. G.S. units of the rocking tank A deposit at any perature can therefore be calculated by use of the values glven in the above table .
order to find the resistance at C. it is necessary to calculate turc coefficient from above observations .
The of 1894 .
] of Pure Electrol ?
f tic Copper .
75 least squares is the one which naturally ests itself this coefficieut , but the calculation would be too 1 borious in comrison with the value of the rure a at .
Therefore , in oldel to ascel.tain which values could be used for calculating the tcmperatul.e ooefficient , ) above observations plotted in the usual the -ordinates being ature and spcciiic resistance in C. G. S. units .
As previonsly stated , the values column 6 of Table II have to be muItiplied by to the specific resistance in C.G.S. units ; to save labour the multiplication was done ( Graphic Table No. 1 ) .
The resistances in column 6 of Table I reduced to C.G.S. units by means of the phical Table 1 are tabulated in another table ( Table III ) .
The graphic Table No. 2 is a reproduction of Table III , and gives the results of the above measurements .
As the values so very nearly a line , two ] are selected:\mdash ; 1707 C.G.S. units at C. These gave the equations:\mdash ; , from which C.G.S. units the specific resistan of the A deposit ( drawn ) at C. , is the ture coefficienb .
By means of these au apolation made from to C. in the graphic ] No. : Resistance of Pnre Electrol ?
f Copper .
lIessrs .
J. .
Swan and J. Rhodin .
Absolufe [ May 24 , Table III .
ACopper .
Hard drawn .
iiiic Tcmp .
Jfeasurements with Rocking Tamk A Copper , Soft .
A similar wire to that used in the previous measurements was annealed in a tube hard glass , through which was a current of dry CO : , in order to prevent oxidation .
The following measurements were made it:\mdash ; Density at C. , ( see previous table ) .
weight of 300 cm .
of the wire , grams .
X cm .
1894 .
] Specific of Pure Copper .
250 cm .
of this wire were compared with the standard ohm , according to method described .
The following are the observations:\mdash ; Table From the numbers in column 6 the values of the specific of this sample can be obtained by muItiplication with tlJe constant obtained in the same manner as the value for ths hard the difference being due to tlJe difference in the diameters .
All the other constants of the measurements lvere the same .
Jihe results calculation give the following values : Specific resistance of rocking tank A copper , aunealed in gas:\mdash ; At C. C.G.S. units .
, The temperatnre coefficient , ated from the formula : \mdash ; ( 8 .
) , gives the value at ordinary temperatures .
Applying this value of to the amount of specific resistamce at C. , the is obtained as the specific resistance of ; special sample of annealed rocking tank A deposit:\mdash ; C.G.S. units .
Speciftc Resistance of Soft Annealed Copper from Deposited Shcet Copper named , the Deposif Solution of Rocking Tank A Copper Dissolved in Acid , ?
an Anode of the Tank ) of Coyper.\mdash ; A solution of lPhate of copper was prepared by using a piece of rocking tank A copper , as the anode in a 80 Specific esistance of Pure Electrotytic .
[ May 24 , mixture of pure sulphuric acid and distilled water , the cathode being another strip of copper enclosed in a new and clean cell of porous .
The culTent was continued until the lution had the desired streng } .
From this solution a sheet of copper was deposited a polished copper plate , as described in the first part of this paper , the rocking tank A copper still being bhe anode .
The deposit was then cut into narrow strips and drawn through sapphire dies to the requisite diameter .
It was finally annealed by heating in a CUl.rent of gas .
Speciffi of the Copper B.\mdash ; It was ascertained by weighing equl lengths of wire and sample ( both drawu the same die ) , that ffleir specific gl'avities did not differ to any appreciable amount , the density at C. was therefore takeu for this mple B. Diameter of the Wire.\mdash ; 300 cm .
of the wire weighed grams ; the diameter is therefore X cm .
Electrical Measurements.\mdash ; The same arl.angements were employed as previously .
Table To ascertnin the specific resistance in C. G. S. uuits , the constant by to multiply 986 ( last columll , Table V ) was deulated in same manner as in Equntion No. 7 , and by substit for instead of , the constant is obtained .
We thus havs the spccific resistance of the pure coppe ] .
:\mdash ; C.G.S. ulJits .
temperatures for scerbaiuing the tempel.ature coefficicnt made , but the data were unfortunnfely lost .
result , howevcl 1894 .
] Presents .
Applying this stant in the well-known formula , the following is found to be the specific resistance at C. :\mdash ; C.G.S. units .
Table of General ResuIts .
co- C.G.S. units .
Specific resistance of A deposit ( hald ) .
At C. . . . .
Same wire after in At C. . . . .
Specific resistance of Sample ( annea]ed ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
At C. . . . .
As the difference between the last two values only amounts to per cenb .
, it is probable that both of the specimens were perfectly pure , and that the limit of electrolytic purification had been reached .
The mean of the two gives the probable specific resistance of pure copper .
Thus , as a general conclusion , it may be stated that the specific resistance pure copper ( hard and annealed ) is:\mdash ; Hard variety , wire 1603 C.G.S. units and Soft , , , , 1563 , , , , .
Transactions .
Baltimore :Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
Vol. XIII .
No. 111 . .
Baltimore 1894 ; Studies in Historical and Political Science .
Series XII .
No. 4 . .
Baltimore 1894 .
The University .
\mdash ; Schlesische Gesellschaft fur Vaterlandische Cultur .
Jahres-Bericht .
Bd .
LXX . .
Breslau 1893 .
The Society .
Calcutta :Indian Museum .
Notes .
Vol. II .
No. 7 . .
Cal1893 .
The Museum .
Dnblin :Royal Dublin Society .
Scientific Transactions .
IV .
Part 14 .
Vol. .
Parts 1\mdash ; 4 . .
Dublin 1892-93 ; Scientific Proceedings .
Vol. .
Part 5 .
Vol. VIII .
Parts 1\mdash ; 2 . .
Dublin 1892-93 .
The Society .
Frankfort-on the-lIain:\mdash ; Senckenbergische Naturforschende Ge- .
Abhalldlungen .
Bd .
XVIII .
Heft 2 .
Frankfurt .
1894 .
The Society .
Gottingen:\mdash ; Konigl .
Gesellscbaft der lVissenschaften .
ten .
1894 .
No. 1 . .
The Society .
VOL. LVI .

