505 Herpetomonas pediculi , nov .
spec .
, Parasitic in the Alimentary Tract of Pediculus vestimenti , the Human Body Louse .
By H. B. Fantham , D.Sc .
, B.A. , Christ 's College , Cambridge , and Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir Ronald Ross , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received November 24 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read January 18 , 1912 .
) [ Plate 14 .
] Introduction .
The organism which forms the subject of this paper is a small flagellate Protozoon occurring in the alimentary tract of the body louse , Pediculus vestimenti ( P. corporis ) .
The flagellate belongs to the genus Herpetomonas , and is , I believe , now recorded for the first time .
I propose for it the name Herpetomonas pediculi , using the name Herpetomonas in the sense of Saville-Kent ( 1881 ) , the founder of the genus .
The parasite was first seen by me nearly three years ago , when working in Cambridge .
At that time , material being scanty and apparently difficult to obtain , there seemed to be no special reason for recording the presence of yet another species of Herpetomonas , though the possibility of lice acting as carriers of disease was realised .
Other researches were then in progress , but I have given H. pediculi intermittent attention ever since I discovered it .
Lately it has been suggested that flagellates belonging to the genera Herpetomonas and Crithidia occurring in the digestive tracts of bloodsucking insects are really stages in the life-history of vertebrate trypanosomes .
In consequence of the importance of the subject in relation to the transmission of trypanosomes and of the increasing attention devoted to leishmaniasis ( or human herpetomoniasis ) , I have resumed my study of Herpetomonas pediculi , and have found its complete life-cycle .
I hope to show that , although Herpetomonas pedicidi might easily be confused with dangerous parasites transferable to man by the bite of the insect hosts , yet it is really a harmless flagellate of the gut of the louse .
Bred lice , fed on my own blood , have been used in the research .
Material and Methods .
The hosts of Herpetomonas pediculi were common body lice , Pediculus vestimenti .
The lice were originally obtained from the bodies of infested children and from verminous clothing recently removed from the body .
506 Dr. H. B. Fantham .
Herpetomonas pediculi , sp. , [ Nov. 24 , Some of the lice so obtained were dissected , and found to contain Herpeto-monads .
The adult lice were isolated into glass tubes , containing small fragments of white woollen material .
They clung to the material , and excrement from them adhered to it .
Examination of the said excrement in a very few cases showed non-flagellate stages of the parasite .
Lice , thus known to be infected , were then paired , as also were lice that were apparently uninfected .
The parent lice were kept in closed tubes in contact with my body , and were fed twice daily , either on my arm or on the back of my hand .
They fed greedily , often evacuating fasces as they fed , and at times even unaltered fresh blood .
The eggs from these lice were kept also in tubes , and , when the larvae hatched , they were treated in the same way as the adults .
Detailed examination was made of the eggs , larvae , and adult lice , and it was found that bred lice from parents known to be infected were parasitised by H. pediculi .
Though clean lice bred clean , the young ones became infected when they came in contact with the faeces of infected lice .
Again , faeces known to be infected were smeared on spots at which uninfected young lice were allowed to feed .
Three days later , control insects showed no flagellates or other form of the parasite , while those fed at infected spots contained active flagellates when dissected .
The sole food supply of the bred lice was my own blood .
Cultures of my blood on Mathis ' modification of Novy and MacNeal 's medium have never yielded any flagellates of any sort .
The percentage of infected lice is not a high one\#151 ; I have dissected as many as 50 lice at a time without finding Herpetomonads\#151 ; nor can the infection be described as heavy ; 300 Pediculi were examined , of which 25 were found to be infected .
Much time has been devoted to the examination of fresh material , which is absolutely essential if the life-cycle is to be followed with exactitude .
The gut of the louse was divided into small serial portions , each of which was finely teased and examined in physiological salt solution .
Observation of the living organisms was supplemented by examination of thin smears of the gut contents , teased intestinal wall , and other organs , and long search was made for possible intracellular stages .
Wet fixation with osmic vapour , followed by absolute alcohol , was used , and coloration with Giemsa 's or other modification of the Eomanowsky stain .
Very dilute solution of methylene blue was of use as an vitam stain .
It may be noted that lice dissected when several hours had elapsed since the last feed showed the parasites better than recently fed ones .
The presence of much blood in the gut interferes with the study of the living organism , as well as adds to the difficulty of staining .
1911 .
] Parasitic in Pediculus vestimenti .
Occurrence of the Parasites in the Host .
Herpetomonas pediculi exhibits three typical stages in its life-history\#151 ; the pre-flagellate , flagellate , and post-flagellate stages .
So far the examination of the mouth parts of the lice has shown no parasites .
The pre-flagellate stage of the parasite occurs chiefly in the oesophagus and proventriculus of the adult louse , and throughout the alimentary canal of the immature insect or larva .
The flagellate stage is found at its best in the mid-gut of the mature louse , while the extreme intestinal and rectal portions of the gut contain the post-flagellates .
The latter are also found in the excrement .
The late larva may contain a few flagellate parasites .
Detailed examination was made of the reproductive organs and ova of the lice , but no parasites were found therein .
The possibility of the hereditary infection of the lice with H. pediculi was , in my opinion , excluded so far as the specimens that I examined were concerned .
The parasites have not been found in organs other than those of the alimentary tract .
The diverticula of the alimentary canal apparently are uninfected .
Movements .
Movements of H. 'pediculi are most easily observed in the fully developed flagellate stage .
They are also very vigorous during division , but as the object of the said movements then is to complete the fission of the organism , they are of a somewhat exceptional character .
Usually movement is brought about by waves of contraction followed by relaxations passing down the body , while progression is aided by the lashing of the flagellum , which is forwardly directed .
The type of movement is somewhat euglenoid , and the occasional concentration of the cytoplasm into the anterior end produces a " peg-top " effect that is very characteristic .
The progression is somewhat spasmodic , consisting of alternate slow movements and rapid darts forward , accompanied by a slight rolling from side to side .
Eeversal of the direction of motion is easily accomplished .
The organism either swings as a whole in a semicircle , the posterior end acting as a centre of rotation , or the flagellum bends back parallel to the body , which then swings suddenly in a semicircle , and so comes to lie in a straight line with the flagellum , after which the parasite moves away in the opposite direction from what it was traversing previously .
The flagellum often lashes vigorously , and when obstacles are encountered appears to test them by touching them rapidly in different spots .
Eotatory movements occur when the Herpetomonas becomes fixed to debris in the lumen of the gut .
The organism lashes its flagellum violently , and 508 Dr. H. B. Fantham .
Herpetomonas pediculi , n. [ Nov. 24 , the flagellum describes a series of circles and spirals , producing marked currents in its neighbourhood .
A very common movement is that of partial rotation of the body of H. pediculi .
The posterior end of the body remote from the nucleus is chiefly concerned , and this portion often twists over , so that the dorsal surface becomes ventral and vice versd ( Plate 14 , fig. 10 ) .
Sometimes a small cluster of parasites may be observed , twisting simultaneously and producing a general shimmering effect .
Entanglement of two organisms by their flagella is sometimes seen .
The movements of the parasites then are most violent .
On one occasion I saw the flagellum of a small parasite torn from its body by the vigorous movements of a much larger Herpetomonas with which it had become entangled .
Such intensely vigorous movements as the last-mentioned are rare .
Life-History in Brief of H. pediculi .
It is of interest to trace the course of the development of the parasite throughout its life in one host .
The following development has been observed in the living organism , and afterwards corroborated by examination of stained preparations .
In the excrement of lice infected with H. pediculi are small , oval bodies , well adapted for resisting desiccation or other adverse condition .
Similar bodies occur in the hind gut of the lice , where they are formed before passing out with the excrement .
Other lice , feeding at spots contaminated by their predecessors , ingest some of these small oval post-flagellates , which consist of a " varnish-like " thin cyst wall , enclosing some granular protoplasm , a nucleus and a blepharoplast ( Plate 14 , figs. 27-29 ) .
Such cysts may also be ingested by larval Pediculi .
Passing with fresh blood into the fore gut of a new host , the post-flagellates commence a new development , and as this leads to the formation of the flagellate , it has been termed the pre-flagellate stage ( fig. 1 ) .
At first round or oval , the parasite rapidly commences to elongate , the end first lengthening becoming , as a rule , the flagellar end of the organism .
At this period , a somewhat more refractile area can be seen in life , and the finely granular chromatophile contents of this area concentrate , forming a thread which ultimately reaches the surface .
The thin ectoplasm of the parasite is pushed forward still more by the thread , which ultimately becomes free of the body and protrudes as a short flagellum ( fig. 2 ) .
The flagellar origin is the chromatophile area or so-called " flagellar sac , which is usually in the neighbourhood of the blepharoplast , which , in the full ) developed organism , is always anterior to the nucleus .
Growth of the non- 1911 .
] Parasitic in Pediculus vestimenti .
flagellar end is continuous , and by the time that the flagellum has reached its full length the non-flagellar ( or posterior ) end has elongated and become fully developed .
During the actual flagellate stage ( figs. 8-18 ) little in the way of actual development occurs , but the vital activities of the organism are displayed by vigorous multiplication .
Increase in numbers in H. takes place by longitudinal division .
The parasites about to divide seem to grow broader just prior to the act and to become more granular .
The first indication of division is shown by the concentration of the substance of the blepharoplast into two masses which are connected together by a very narrow neck .
The dumb-bell like body so formed ( fig. 19 ) gradually separates into two distinct blepharoplasts , placed slightly obliquely , one on either side of the body ( fig. 20 ) .
The intra-cellular part of the flagellum ( or rhizoplast ) commences to divide just after the blepharoplast , and the split appears to extend forwards .
Concentration of the nuclear material occurs simultaneously , arid the nucleus becomes constricted , usually in the median line and parallel to the long axis of the body , but occasionally markedly to one side .
The constriction deepens , and ultimately two nuclei are produced .
These migrate to the sides of the organism , and fission of the general cytoplasm commences ( figs. 20 , 21 ) .
The flagella lash about very much at this time , and their vigorous action aids in the separation of the daughter organisms .
The latter gradually diverge until they come to lie in a straight line , and finally become separated from one another at the apex .
The fission is practically always followed by active swimming movements of the daughter organisms .
Consequent on this great activity of the daughter forms immediately after division , rosettes of Herpetomonads , due to repeated longitudinal division and non-separation of the resultant parasites , are exceptional .
Division is best seen in the mid-gut of the louse .
After a series of longitudinal divisions , resulting in the production of a number of flagellate individuals , a reaction sets in , and the parasite prepares for life outside the body of its host .
As the Ilerpetomonad passes backwards into the very dark semi-digested blood in the hind gut of the louse , the chromatin of its flagellum dwindles , and appears to be absorbed ( figs. 22-25 ) .
The cytoplasm concentrates around the nucleus , to which the blepharoplast also is drawn nearer .
The parasite becomes more or less rounded or oval , and proceeds to secrete a thin , gelatinous wall , which rapidly hardens to a " skin-tight " coat around the organism , which , in this sense , may be said to encyst ( figs. 26-28 ) .
Thus prepared and protected , the .
oval bodies , now known as post-flagellates , pass from the gut of the host , mingled with the dejecta to recommence the life-cycle if ingested by a new host .
510 Dr. H. B. Fantham .
Herpetomonas pediculi , n. [ Nov. 24 MORPHOLOCxY .
A. The Pre-flagellStage .
The pre-flagellate stage ( figs. 1-4 ) of pediculi , at its earliest , takes the form of small oval or rounded bodies , measuring 6 to 7 by 4 to 5 They have a marked resemblance to the Leishman-Donovan bodies .
The pre-flagellate shows a thin ectoplasm and endoplasm containing retractile granules .
The nucleus ( fig. 1 ) is oval or occasionally rounded , while the deeply staining blepharoplast ( kinetic nucleus ) may be bar-like , oval , or occasionally rounded , and is well marked ( figs. 1 , 2 ) .
The position of the blepharoplast varies somewhat , as would be expected in a developing organism .
It may lie to the side of the nucleus or above it , and occasionally the blepharoplast is apposed to the nucleus .
The chromatopliile area ( fig. 1 ) from which the flagellum differentiates is also present .
Division occurs in the pre-flagellate stage ( fig. 5 ) , more especially when the organism is beginning to elongate , and possesses a short flagellum .
Isolated ehromatoid granules are sometimes present in the pre-flagellates ( fig. 2 ) .
The appearance of intermediate forms ( figs. 2-4 , 6 , 7 ) between the pre-flagellate and the flagellate has been indicated in the section dealing with the life-history .
B. The Flagellate Stage .
The flagellate form ( figs. 8-18 ) of H. pediculi is an active organism relatively small compared with other Herpetomonads , its body length varying from 11 / x to 26 fxin the specimens examined .
The inclusion of the flagellum doubles the length of the organism , for the flagellum itself may be 30 ix in length ( fig. 16 ) .
The cytoplasm of the organism is finely alveolar ( figs. 8-18 ) , and very retractile in life .
Chromatoid granules ( figs. 15 , 18 ) are present in some cases .
The protoplasm rarely presents marked vacuoles in stained preparations , but in life a clearer area is sometimes seen near the origin of the flagellum .
4 The nucleus ( figs. 8-18 ) is round or oval ' and crowded with very fine granules .
A karyosome is seen in some eases ( figs. 11 , 15 ) but is not visible in all , doubtless being masked by the numerous fine granulations present .
A nuclear membrane apparently occurs , but is not so chromatic as when the nucleus is of a vesicular type .
The blepharoplast ( kinetic nucleus ) may be oval or rod-like , lying transversely across the body , or somewhat obliquely .
Occasionally it is curved , and it often presents a bowed appearance prior to division .
It stains deeply , taking a purplish tint with Giemsa .
Before the onset of the multiplicative phase the blepharoplast presents no differentiation .
The free flagellum tapers finely at its free end .
It originates as a rhizoplast Parasitic in Pediculus vestimenti .
1911 .
] near the blepharoplast , and occasionally a minute basal granule can be distinguished with difficulty .
Aggregation rosettes.\#151 ; Just as division rosettes are infrequent , so aggregation rosettes or clusters are uncommon .
It is noteworthy that the members of an aggregation rosette ( fig. 13 ) may be of different sizes and ages .
In such rosettes , the parasites either mass themselves around some food particle with which they are in contact by their flagella , or else several organisms intertwine their flagella and so form a sort of bouquet or ball of living organisms , all vibrating slowly from a common centre provided by their interlaced flagella .
These rosettes in time break up into the component units .
One after another , the slow-moving organisms manage to detach themselves and swim away until the last two separate .
The object underlying these simple rosette formations is not fully understood .
Possibly it enables the flagellates to withstand better any currents in the gut , and so gives them a somewhat longer lease of life as flagellates , before encystment overtakes them .
C. The Post-fiagella Stage .
The post-flagellate stages of H. pedicu ( figs. 25-29 ) when fully formed are small bodies ( less than the pre-flagellates ) containing protoplasm and a nucleus , to which the blepharoplast may be apposed , or in which nucleus and blepharoplast can be distinguished as separate entities .
The blepharoplast is often somewhat smaller than in the other phases of the parasite .
The cyst wall is extremely thin , staining pinkish after Giemsa ( figs. 27 , 28 ) .
The blepharoplast is not always easy to demonstrate in stained preparations , but that it must be present is obvious when one has taken the trouble to watch the process of post-flagellate formation in the living animal and has studied a series of stained preparations of intermediate forms ( figs. 22-26 ) .
Cysts with thick , radially striated walls ( fig. 29 ) have very rarely been encountered , and I am inclined to think that the presence of the swollen gelatinous wall containing striations and enclosing a parasite with chromatoid granules is a sign of degeneration .
Herpetomonas pediculi is a Natural Parasite of Pediculus vestimenti .
Recently much controversy has arisen from statements made to the effect that flagellates found in sanguivorous insects must be regarded as developmental stages of trypanosomes .
Accordingly\#151 ; ignoring the evidence of life-cycle and morphology\#151 ; H. pediculi would be regarded by some as a phase of a trypanosome .
Sweeping statements such as that quoted are rarely logical , and when they are based upon a series of speculations and single instances instead of on an accumulation of facts , they are usually unsound .
512 Dr. H , B. Fantham .
Herpetomonas pediculi , n. [ Nov. 24 While it is quite true that certain trypanosomes , e.g. , assume a Herpetomonas-like form in cultures , yet they are not then under exactly natural conditions .
Further , they may be considered as reverting to the type from which it seems probable that they have originated , namely primitive Herpetomonads which have undergone morphological changes and in process of time have evolved the trypanosome type when inoculated into the vertebrate host .
With regard to H. pediculi , I do not think that there is any doubt that it is a flagellate , natural to and parasitic in the insect host , and that it has no connection with a human trypanosome , pathogenic or non-pathogenic .
In support of this conclusion , I cite the following facts and experiments:_ ( 1 ) At various times during the past three years , I have fed lice on my blood from the time of hatching until they died .
A tsetse fly transmitting Trypanosoma gambiense is at first limited in its period of infective inoculation .
Lice might also be similarly limited , but , owing to the method of feeding-adopted , no question of the lice not having fed at their infective period can be entertained .
In spite of repeated feedings of lice , my blood shows no sign of trypanosomes , whether tested by ordinary microscopical examination of films , by thick films or by cultural methods , and the period covered by the experiments is ample to have allowed of full development of trypanosomes , were H. pediculi a phase of one .
( 2 ) Artificially infected lice have been fed simultaneously .
The result of mass feeding surely should have been sufficient to produce some indication of trypanosomes , were any present .
No such indications have been found , even after inoculation of my blood into susceptible animals like white rats .
( Animals examined for six weeks after inoculation .
) ( 3 ) The experiment of inoculating rats with the contents of the gut of lice containing H. pediculi has given no positive results whatever .
The rodents remained perfectly healthy , nor did cultures of their blood , or thick film examinations , yield any trace of trypanosomes .
( 4 ) Cultures of the gut contents of infected lice showed no further stage in the life-history of the parasite .
( 5 ) The methods of infecting larvae and adults of P. vestimenti with H. pediculi have been briefly indicated in a preceding section .
The same contaminative method of infection has been observed under natural conditions , and resembles that found in the case of some other insects , such as irriians ( adult and larva ) , infected with Crithidia pulicis ( Porter , 1911 ) and Nepa cinerea , harbouring Herpetomonas jaculum(Leger , 1902 ; Porter , 1909 ) .
Further , the well-defined development of with its pre-flagellate , flagellate and post-flagellate forms , presents a cycle complete in itself , and Parasitic inPediculus vestimenti .
1911 .
] there is no evidence to show that there is any connection with the life-cycle of any other organism .
Contamination of experimental P. vestimenti by feeding on other vertebrates has been rigorously excluded , so that no fallacious results can accrue from outside sources .
From the foregoing considerations , the conclusion obviously must be that if H. pediculi be a stage in the life-history of a vertebrate trypanosome , the said trypanosome should most probably be present in my blood , and should have revealed itself by now .
Eepeated cultures , thick-film blood examinations , and ordinary smears , examined continuously during this research , have all proved negative .
Hence , all the evidence available points to the fact that H. pediculi is a parasite of the insect Pediculus vestimenti , and has no connection with any trypanosome of persons on whom lice may feed .
Were such a trypanosome to exist , it is surprising that it has not been recorded ere this , considering the number of blood examinations undertaken in various scientific institutions .
Further , I do not think that H. pediculi has any connection with as no symptoms of leishmaniasis have developed in me , and England is a country free from the disease .
However , the possible occurrence of such a natural Herpetomonas in lice must be remembered in experimenting with Pediculi as possible transmitters of Leishmania .
" Wild " lice\#151 ; the term commonly used to denote lice that were not bred for purposes of investigation but collected at random\#151 ; obtained from several widely different districts in England , have also yielded the flagellates when dissected .
Doubtless , were more lice available from other areas , some also would be infected .
The inference is then , I think , fairly justified that H. pediculi occurs in a few body lice throughout England .
Some Continental authorities would perhaps place H. pediculi in the genus Leptomonas .
However , I have followed most English workers in considering that members of the genus Herpetomonas are really uniflagellate , as originally defined .
Note on the Biology and Life-History of Pediculus vestimenti .
The study of parasitic Protozoa demands a good knowledge of the life-history and habits of the host .
In dealing with lice , great difficulty was at first experienced , as the literature on the subject is very scattered and unsatisfactory .
Since the commencement of this research , a valuable paper by Warburton ( 1909 ) has appeared , which gives details as to the length of life of the lice , time of incubation , and rearing of the larvae .
I can fully confirm all that Warburton has recorded .
514 Dr. H. B. Fantham .
Herpetomonas pediculi , n. [ Nov. 24 , The eggs of P. vestimenti vary in their incubation period .
I found tn t while a few eggs hatched in four to five days , others matured as much as six weeks after laying .
Warburton found the same kind of variation .
The larvse were pale coloured , and fed as soon as they left the egg , if placed on the back of the hand .
Moulting occurred every four days , the new skins being slightly darker than the previous ones .
The lame fed very greedily , and were much more active than the adults .
When feeding , a larva has sucked blood for as long as 25 minutes , peristaltic waves being clearly visible in the gut the while .
Usually 10 to 15 minutes ' feed was sufficient .
The imaginal stage is attained about eleven to twelve days after hatching , sexual maturity about four days later .
Copulation is intermittent , but frequent .
In several cases it occurred shortly after feeding , particularly when the insects fed greedily , so that unchanged fresh blood occasionally passed from their bodies after the semi-solid digested blood cttbris had ceased to be voided .
Egg laying at the rate of four or five per day occurs during the rest of the life of the female , who is longer-lived than the male .
Warburton found that the adult life of a male was about three weeks , that of a female four weeks .
In my own experiments similar results were obtained , but I also found that the length of life was sometimes about a week less , in each sex .
The mode of feeding of adult P. vestimenti is of interest .
After settling down on the hand , often clinging to the scrap of cloth on which they usually rest , a fairly sharp stab is made , and immediately the blood begins to flow into the alimentary canal , which becomes bright red .
As feeding proceeds , the louse gradually raises its abdomen , until it is almost vertical in extreme cases .
As fresh blood passes into the gut , defalcation occurs , much excrement being produced .
If an attempt be made to remove a louse before it has finished its feed , the pull of the ring of hooks near the lower lip can be felt .
Lice fed in a somewhat restricted area showed no hesitation in sucking blood at spots fouled by themselves or their neighbours .
Adult lice would feed for 20 to 30 minutes .
If feeding were neglected , the lice died in about three days .
I found it necessary to feed them at least twice daily , though I have succeeded in keeping two females alive for three weeks when fed only once a day .
Larvfe perish if not fed within 36 hours of hatching , and even then there is great loss during the larval stage .
Lice are also very sensitive to changes of temperature .
Body heat seems necessary for them , though eggs can withstand great extremes of temperature .
Death of P. vestimenti appears to occur very suddenly .
I found that a Parasitic inPediculus vestimenti .
1911 .
] iair number of those adults that died did so within a short time after a meal , their alimentary canals containing much unchanged blood .
Regarding the specific name of the body-louse there is much uncertainty .
Neumann , in a recent paper ( July , 1911 ) , suggests that P. vestimenti is a sub-species of P. capitis , and would then be called P. capitis vestimenti .
However , a discussion of such a difficult matter of nomenclature is quite outside the scope of this paper .
Summary and Conclusions .
1 .
Hcrpetomonas pediculi is a parasite of the bodylous The parasite appears to be confined to the alimentary tract and faeces of its host ( adult and larva ) , one phase of it having been recovered from the dejecta .
The parasite is spread from louse to louse by the contaminative method , cysts of the parasite being swallowed by the insect .
The whole life-cycle has been followed in the living material .
2 .
Movements of the flagellate are very rapid and somewhat spasmodic , and are easily accomplished by the aid of the flagellum .
Rotatory motion and movements of flexion occur .
3 .
The parasite exhibits three well-marked developmental phases , united by a continuous series of intermediate forms:\#151 ; ( i ) The pre-flagellate , which produces a flagellum and elongates ( figs. 1\#151 ; 7 ) , and becomes ( ii ) the flagellate ( figs. 8\#151 ; 18 ) , which , after a growing and multiplicative phase by longitudinal fission ( figs. 19\#151 ; 21 ) , forms ( iii ) the resting , " encysted " post-flagellate form , adapted for extra-corporeal life ( figs. 22\#151 ; 29 ) .
4 .
Pre-flagellate stages , best found in the oesophagus and proventriculus of the louse , or in the larva , strongly resemble Leishman-Donovan bodies .
They are 6 / a to 7 / along and 4 ya to 5 yu .
broad .
The nucleus and blepharo-plast are well defined .
A chromatophile area , from which the flagellum develops , is present .
5 .
The flagellate forms occur chiefly in the mid-gut .
The body length is from 11 / x to 26 / a in those I have examined .
The cytoplasm is finely alveolar .
The nucleus is round or oval , and the blepharoplast stains deeply .
Aggregation rosettes of flagellates of various ages and sizes are occasionally found ( fig. 13 ) .
6 .
Post-flagellate forms are oval , usually provided with a " skin-tight " cyst .
The blepharoplast seems smaller than that of the flagellate or pre-flagellate .
This stage is best observed in the rectum of the louse and can be recovered from the faeces .
Radially striated , thick-walled cysts occur very rarely ( fig. 29 ) .
7 .
My experiments show that H. pediculi is not a stage of a vertebrate VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. 2 P 516 Herpetomonas pediculi , n. Parasitic P. vestimenti .
trypanosome , for I have fed the infected lice from the time of hatching to the time of death on my own body , and have made detailed examinations of my own blood by smears , thick films , and by cultures , as well as by subinoculations into white rats , none of which has ever given indication of trypanosomes during three years of experiments .
Animals inoculated with H. 'pediculi from the gut of lice have also shown no parasites .
8 .
H. pediculi is a parasite of the louse , Pediculus vestimenti , and shows no connection with any vertebrate trypanosome .
Also , it is not connected with Leishmania .
REFERENCES .
Further references will be found in some of the memoirs cited .
Leger , L. ( 1902 ) .
" Sir la structure et le mode de multiplication des Flagelles du genre Herpetomonas , Kent , " 4 C. R. Acad. Sci. , Paris , ' vol. 134 , pp. 781\#151 ; 784 .
7 figs. Neumann , L. G. ( 1911 ) .
" Notes sir les P6diculid6s , II , " 'Archives de Parasitologie , ' vol. 14 , pp. 401\#151 ; 414 ( Pediculus , pp. 410\#151 ; 413 ) .
Porter , Annie ( 1909 ) .
44 The Life-cycle of He ( Leger ) , Parasitic in the Alimentary Tract of Nepa cinerea4 Parasitology,5 vol. 2 , pp. 367\#151 ; 391 .
1 plate .
Porter , Annie ( 1911 ) .
" The Structure and Life-history of pulicis , n. sp. , Parasitic in the Alimentary Tract of the Human Flea , Pulex 'Parasitology,5 vol. 4 , pp. 237\#151 ; 254 .
1 plate .
Saville-Kent , W. ( 1881 ) .
4 A Manual of the Infusoria.5 3 vols .
London .
( , p. 245 .
) Warburton , C. ( 1909 ) .
44 A Preliminary Investigation on Flock as a Possible Distributor of Yermin , and on tlnj Life-history of the Body Louse ( ) , " 4 Reports to Local Government Board on Public Health and Medical Matters5 ( New Series , No. 2 ) .
5 pp. London , H.M. Stationery Office .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 14 .
All figures outlined with AbbGZeiss camera lucida , after wet fixation with osmic vapour and absolute alcohol and staining with Giemsa 's solution ; 2 mm. apochromatic objective ( Zeiss ) and compensating oculars 8 and 12 used .
Magnification 1500 diameters .
Figs. 1\#151 ; 7 represent pre-flagellate and intermediate forms of H. pedicidi from the digestive tract of the larva or the fore-gut ( oesophagus and proventriculus or anterior lobe of the stomach ) of the adult Pediculus vestimenti .
In fig. 1 note the chromatopliile or pink-staining finely granular area from which the flagellum arises .
In figs. 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 note the gradual lengthening of the flagellum and elongation of the body .
Fig. 5 represents a late pre-flagellate organism dividing .
Figs. 8\#151 ; 18 show flagellate parasites from the stomach and anterior part of the intestine ( or mid-gut ) of the adult louse .
Fig. 8 .
Young flagellate .
Fig. 10 .
Flagellate showing body twisted or folded over about the middle of it ' " ' length .
Fajithairb Hoy .
Soc. Proc. B .'VoL PI .
Isolating and Cultivating Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. 517 Fig. 13 I'epresents an aggregation rosette or cluster of flagellates of different sizes and ages .
Figs. 14 , 15 , 16 show parasites whose bodies are thrown into characteristic undulations .
Note the chromatoid granules shown in fig. 15 .
Figs. 17 , 18 represent stout flagellates from the anterior part of the intestine .
The latter figure shows the stoutest parasite seen during the research .
The parasite contained chromatoid granules .
Figs. 19\#151 ; 21 represent dividing forms .
Figs. 22\#151 ; 25 show stages of the parasite leading to post-flagellates and cysts ( figs. 26\#151 ; 29 ) , as seen in the hinder part of the intestine , including the rectum and the faeces .
In figs. 22\#151 ; 25 note the gradual shortening and absorption of the flagellum and the contraction and rounding of the body .
In fig. 25 only the rhizoplastic part of the flagellum remains .
Chromatoid granules occur in these parasites .
Figs. 27\#151 ; 29 represent truly encysted forms , as found at the extreme posterior end of the gut or voided in the faeces with semi-solid , black blood remains .
In figs. 27 , 28 the cyst-wall is thin and varnish-like , and closely apposed to the parasite .
It stains pink after Giemsa .
Fig. 29 represents a gelatinous , thick-walled cyst with striations .
Such cysts were very rare .
A Method for Isolating and Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis chronicae pseudo tuberculosae bo vis , , and Some Experiments on the Preparation of a Diagnostic Vaccine for Pseudo-tuberculous Enteritis of Bovines .
By F. W. Twort , M.R.C.S. , L.R.C.P. Loud .
, and G. L. Y. Ingram , M.RC .
V.S. ( Communicated by Leonard Hill , M.B. , F.R.S. Received November 7 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read February 1 , 1912 .
) ( From the Laboratories of the Brown Institution , University of London .
) The disease of cattle described under the name of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , or Johne 's disease , is a serious affection which causes considerable losses to farmers and stockowners throughout the British Isles and Europe .
Clinically , it is characterised by a slow progressive emaciation and chronic diarrhoea , which causes the milk-yield in cows to fall off , and often ends in death .
B. Bang states that some cases show no diarrhoea , though the affected animals die ; he also states that the annual losses from this disease on some of the large farms in the Islands of Denmark may amount to 5 to 8 per cent , of the total head of cattle .
The disease may affect bovines of all ages ( usually from 3 to 6 years , Meissner ( 33 ) ) , but as the period of incubation has been shown to be very long , it is not usually recognised VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. 2 Q

