Second Essay on a general Method in Dynamics .
By William Rowan Hamilton , Esq. , Andrew 's Professor of Astronomy in the Uni ?
versity of Dublin , and Royal Astronomer of lreland .
Communicated by Captain Beaufort , R.N. , F.R.S. This essay is a sequel of the one which appeared in the last volume of the Philosophical Transactions , and which contained a general method for reducing all the most important problems of dynamics to the study of one characteristic function , or one central or radical relation .
It was there remarked that many eliminations required by this method might be avoided by a general transformation , introducing the time explicitly into a part ( S ) of the whole characteristic function ( V ) ; and the first object of the present essay is to examine and develope the properties of this part ( S ) , which the author designates by the term Principal Function .
This function is applied by the author to problems of perturbation , in which he finds it dispenses with many laborious and circuitous processes , and furnishes accurate expressions of the disturbed configurations of a system by the rules of undisturbed motion , if only the initial components of velocities be changed in a suitable manner .
Another manner of extending rigorously to dis ?
turbed , the rules of undisturbed motion , by the gradual variation of elements , in number double the number of the coordinates or other marks of position of the system , which was first invented by Lagrange , and was afterwards improved by Poisson , is considered in this second essay under a form rather more general ; and the general method of calculation which has already been applied by the author to other analogous questions in optics and in dynamics , is now applied to the integration of the equations which determine these elements .
This general method is founded chiefly on a combination of the principle of variations with those of partial differentials , and may furnish , when matured , a separate branch of analysis , which may he denominated the Calculus of Principal Functions .
When applied to the integra ?
tion of the equations of varying elements , itsuggests the consideration of a certain Function of Elements , capable of being variously trans formed , and which may be either rigorously determined , or at least approached to , by a corollary of the general method .
With a view to illustrate these new principles , and more csDccially those connected 2 a with problems of perturbation , they are applied , in this essay , first , to a very simple example , suggested by the motions of projectiles , the parabolic path being treated as the undisturbed ; and secondly , to the problem of determining the motions of a ternary or multiple system , with any laws of attraction or repulsion , and with one predominant mass .
This latter problem , which was touched upon in the former essay , is here resumed in a new manner , by forming and integrating the differential equations of a new set of varying elements , entirely distinct in theory ( though little differing in practice ) from the elements conceived by Lagrange ; and having this advantage , that the differentials of all the new elements for both the disturbed and disturbing masses may be expressed by the coefflcients of one disturbing function .

