February 6 , 1845 .
SIR JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK , Bart. , V.P. and Treas .
in the Chair .
" On a new Bleaching Principle produced by the slow Combustion of 2Ether in Atmospheric Air , and by the rapid Combustion of Bodies in a Jet of H-ydrogen Gas .
" By C. F. Schcenbein , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Basle , &amp;c. Communicated in a letter to Michael Faraday , Esq. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The author , having observed that a peculiar principle , in many respects similar to chlorine , was developed during the slow combustion of phosphorus in the atmosphere , was led to inquire into the product of the slow combustion of the vapour of ather mixed with atmospheric air .
He finds , that besides well-known compounds , such as aldehydic , formic and acetic acids , there is evolved a principle hitherto unnoticed , which possesses oxidizing and bleaching properties in an eminent degree .
It decomposes indigo , iodide of potassium , and hydroiodic acid , and also , though more slowly , bromide of potassium .
When in contact with water , it converts iodine into iodic acid , and sulphurous into sulphuric acid , changes the yellow ferro-cyanide of potassium into the red , and the white cyanide of iron into the blue ; it transforms the salts of protoxide of iron into those of the peroxide ; and it discharges the colours produced by sulphuret of lead .
The author points out the similarity between the action of this substance , in these instances , and that of chlorine and of ozone .
Analogous results were obtained from the combustion of a jet of hydrogen gas in atmospheric air , and even , under particular circumstances , from the flame of a common candle , and also from various other inflammable bodies when burning under certain conditions .
The author is hence led to the conclusion that this peculiar oxidizing and bleaching principle is produced in all cases of rapid combustion taking place in atmospheric air , and that its production is therefore independent of the nature of the substance which is burnt .

