On the Resistance of Fluids to Bodies passing through them .
By James Walker , Esq. F.R.S.E. Communicated by Davies Gilbert , Esq. M.P. V.P.R.S. Read May 31 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 15 .
] The object of this paper is to explain a new mode of measuring the resistance of fluids , which has of late become more than formerly an object of research owing to the introduction of steam navigation .
The resistance of a fluid per se , is , theoretically speaking , as the square of the velocity ; but , independently of friction and viscidity , this theory is only applicable to the case of a body entirely and deeply immersed .
If it float on the surface ( as a boat ) , the elevation of the water in front , and its depression behind , disturbs the exactness of this law , and renders theory inapplicable ; while experiment , as the author remarks , has not yet supplied the defect .
The author devotes the first part of his paper to a consideration of the experiments made by Bossut and other members of the French Academy in 1776 , 1778 , and by the London Society for the Improvement of Naval Architecture in 1793 and 1798 .
Both these sets of experiments he regards as inconclusive , partly from the small size of the floating body and the small velocities used , but chiefly from the inadequacy of the means of measuring the actual resistance , and the sources of error arising from the rigidity of the cords used , the friction of pulleys , and that of the line itself dragged through the water , the moving power being a weight suspended and descending uniformly .
In the experiments which form the object of this paper , all these sources of error ( which , in some cases , amounted to three times the resistance to be measured , ) were avoided by the simple contrivance of estimating the strain exerted on the boat , at every instant , by a spring weighing machine immediately attached to it , through which the tension of the cord was of course transmitted , and which measured the actual tension exerted in overcoming the resistance of the boat , unmixed with any of the other causes of the destruction of power .
The apparatus employed is illustrated by drawings .
The experiments were made in the East India Import Dock , whose size and depth are such as to allow no resistance arising from the sides or bottom of the dock .
The boat being drawn at each experiment over o-ths of a mile , the time of passing over -Tth was carefully noted , and the tension or resistance read off and registered every two seconds .
The velocity was preserved uniform by applying the power of men turning a barrel in measured time by the swing of a pendulum .
Four sets of experiments were made on boats of 18 and 28 feet in length , variously loaded , and on a Thames wherry , with velocities from 2 to 5miles per hour ; and the conclusion from them all is , that the resistance increases in a higher ratio than as the square of the velocity .
Mr. Walker concludes this paper with a comparison between the effect of moving power applied on a rail-road and on a canal , which from these experiments appears to be reduced to equality at lower velocities than if the resistance to the boat were as the square of the velocity .

