Preliminary Note on Trypanosoma eberthi ( Kent ) ( = Spirochseta eberthi , Liihe ) and some other Parasitic Forms from the Intestine of the Fowl .
By C. H. Martin , B.A. , Demonstrator of Zoology in Glasgow University , and Muriel Robertson , M.A. , Carnegie Research Fellow , Assistant to the Professor of Protozoology in the University of London .
( Communicated by Prof. J. Graham Kerr , F.R.S. Received June 18 , \#151 ; Read June 24 , 1909 .
) [ Plate 8 .
] In the eleventh volume of the ' Zeitschrift fur Wissenschaftliche Zoologie , ' published in 1862 ( p. 98 ) , Eberth described , in a remarkable paper , " ein kleines Infusorium " which he had found abundantly in the caeca of various birds ( fowl , partridge , duck , goose ) ; he described it as a flattened crescentic form measuring 0*012 to 0*014 mm. long by 0*006 to 0*008 mm. wide , with a wide and a narrow extremity , the latter of which is drawn out into a slight point .
He distinguished the true body of the animal , in which he sometimes thought he saw a nucleus , from the conspicuous " hautige Saum , " the movements and appearance of which he described and figured very clearly .
He considers that this form is related to the form seen by Leydig in the gut of Piscicola , Pontobdella , and Ixodes , which Leydig had believed came from the blood of fish , and those described in the blood of various fish and of the frog .
Eberth , however , remarked that he could not find his parasite in the blood of the infected birds , though he found two other flagellates , which he does not further describe , in the intestine .
Leuckart , in his first edition ( 1863 ) of * Die Parasiten des Menschen ** ( vol. 1 , p. 140 ) , placed the animal described by Eberth in a new genus , .
Scenolophus ; in his second edition , however , under Stein 's influence ( vide infra ) , he came to the conclusion that this animal " Vermutlich gleichfalls nichts Anderes als eine Trichomonas ist , bei der die Anwesenheit des Geisselapparates ubersehen wurde " ( 2nd Edition , p. 312 ) .
Stein ( 1878 ) was inclined to consider the parasite as a Trichomonas of which the anterior flagella had been overlooked .
( 'Der Organismus der Infusionsthiere , ' Abtheilung III , 1 .
Halfte , p. 79 .
" Sollte nun das vordere End , wie ich vermuthe , noch mit zwei Geisseln versehen sein , so wurde dieser Parasite , aus dem Leuckart sogleich eine never gemacht hat , unbedingt sir Gatt .
Trichomonas gehoren .
" ) The next reference to this form that we have found is to be met with in Mr. C. H. Martin and Miss M. Robertson .
[ June 18 , Saville Kent 's ' Monograph of the Infusoria ' ( 1881 ) , where it is named Trypanosoma eberthi .
Saville Kent has apparently overlooked Leuckart and Stein 's references to this form , and his theory as to its possible connection with the trypanosoma of the frog need not be considered here .
Biitschli ( 1889 ) , in his account of the Protozoa , gave Eberth 's figures of this form and placed it in the genus Trypanosoma with the true blood parasites .
Doflein , in 1901 , gave Eberth 's description and figures of this form , which he seems inclined to connect with some of the flagellate parasites seen in " Geflugel-Diphtherie .
" The evidence on which he does this seems rather scanty and he himself remarks ( p. 60 ) : " Mir scheint aus dem Studium der Literatur hervorzugehen , dass zwei oder mehr verschiedene Arten in den Angaben mit einander vermengt worden sind .
Es ware sehr verdienstlich in dieser interessanten Frage Klarheit zu schaffen .
" Laveran and Mesnil ( 1904 ) , in their ' Trypanosomes et Trypanosomiases , ' state , on p. 354 , " II parait bien certain que le Trypanosoma eberthi , Kent , vu par Eberth dans le tube digestif de la poule , n'est pas un Trypanosome , c'est sans doute un Trichomonas , comme Stein , puis Leuckart , en ont fait les premiers la supposition .
" Lube ( 1906 ) , in a short note in his account of the blood parasites in Mense 's ' Handbuch der Tropenkrankheiten , ' has changed the name of this form from Trypanosoma eberthi to Spirochceta eberthi , owing to the presumed absence of a free flagellate end to the undulating membrane .
" We think , however , that if Luhe had himself seen this form he would not have placed it among the Spirochsetes .
It is rather interesting to note that in spite of the numerous references to this common parasite in later literature , and its triple change of name up to the present , Eberth appears to have been the only observer who had actually seen it .
Methods .
Most of the stained work was done on wet films fixed either with Flemming or corrosive-acetic .
The films were stained either with iron haematoxylin , hsemalaun , Delafield 's haematoxylen , Giemsa , or Twort .
The three first all gave good results .
General Conditions in the Cceea and Rectum .
During the course of this preliminary work we have examined the csecal and rectal contents of 14 fowls of various ages and at various stages of digestion , and have met with the flagellate parasites of four types , A , B , C , D. Before , however , proceeding to the description of these forms , it would be 1909 .
] On Trypanosoma eberthi ( ) , etc. well to consider shortly the varying conditions which these parasites have to withstand in the course of digestion .
Unfortunately , very little seems to be known as to the part played by the caeca in the metabolism of the bird , and apparently much the same statement may be made as regards the conversion of the fluid intestinal contents into the more solid faeces in any animal .
The body temperature of birds is given by Tigerstedt as lying between 390,4 to 430,9 C. The temperature of one of our fowls measured in the axilla was 390,5 C. , which is possibly rather low .
The condition of the caecal content can vary very greatly ; in what we have termed the normal caecal condition the caeca are full of a light brownish fluid containing a large number of small gas bubbles .
( In one Irish hen there was an enormous development of gas , and a strong smell of sulphuretted hydrogen ; the presence of the sulphuretted hydrogen was possibly correlated with the presence of a rounded plump bacterium found in very large numbers in this hen .
) The most characteristic feature of the bacterial flora in this stage of digestion is a very active vibrio which has been met quite high up the intestine .
When the caeca are in this condition , the rectum is frequently empty , and if it is full the contents , though hard , are largely made up of fibres and husks of corn .
In what we term the rectal condition of the caeca , the caeca are filled with a dark firm mass ; the rectum then may be filled with the same substance , or it may be empty , *in which case the animal has probably recently defecated .
In the transitional stages between the normal and rectal conditions the bacterial flora undergoes a marked change , the vibrio becomes much rarer , and large numbers of cocci and long slender bacteria are met with .
It is evident that in the course of this change of the nature of the csecal contents , very complicated physical and chemical factors may be at work , not only owing to the action of the walls of the alimentary canal itself but also to that of the bacteria .
To single out only one of these factors , the question of the changes in the osmotic pressure of the surrounding medium of the parasite becomes a very important one .
It is a general practice for workers on the intestinal protozoa to carry out extended observations in a solution of sodium chloride , isotonic with the blood , and as regards the fowl , Hamburger , in his recent work on : ' Osmotischer Druek und Ionenlehre/ gives two determinations : on p. 176 the figures 0*45 to 0-417 per cent , of sodium chloride are mentioned as the result of plasmolytic methods on blood corpuscles .
On p. 458 he gives 0'591 to 0'605 per cent , sodium chloride as a figure arrived at by the freezing-point method .
We used a tap water solution of 0*7 per cent. ISTaCl , but we think VOL. lxxxi.\#151 ; b. 2 F Mr. C. H. Martin and Miss M. Robertson .
[ June 18 , that if one regards the events in the course of absorption by which the liquid contents of the caeca and intestine are converted into the practically solid faeces , it becomes difficult to believe that this solution can at best represent more than one Out of a series of many stages .
The Flagellate Parasites .
The flagellate parasites found in the caecum , \#171 ; as has been stated above , can be divided into four groups , A , B , C , D , of which we only need here particularly to consider A , B , and C. D is a sharply marked type , found in email numbers on two occasions , with an anterior and a posterior trailing flagellum , which can be coiled round the body .
It is of very small size , roughly half the size of the smallest A form seen , and of approximately torpedo shape .
The chief difficulty in dealing with the remaining three groups , A , B , C , is that although large numbers of individuals can be found in which the characters of each group are sharply marked , yet numerous transitional forms are to be seem .
Under these circumstances we do not feel inclined , until we have obtained a great deal mpre evidence from artificially infected chicks raised in an incubator , to decide definitely between the two alternatives of considering A , B , C as various forms of a mixed infection or as stages of a single life cycle .
The small amount of evidence we have at present points clearly to a transition from A to B , and we have observed some cases of which the most natural explanation would be to regard A , B , C as stages in one life cycle .
A. Trypanosoma eberthi , Kent .
Plate 8 , fig. 1.\#151 ; This is the form which we are inclined to believe Eberth had before him when he wrote his description of Trypanosoma eberthi .
It is characterised by a rather elongated body , a very well marked undulating membrane , along the edge of which a flagellum runs from the anterior end of the animal to end freely at the posterior end .
The living animal , when seen on a cold stage in salt solution , is easily picked up by the rippling movement of the undulating membrane .
In the living animal the nucleus can be readily seen as a rather cone-shaped light area containing some small granules lying in the anterior region of the animal .
Along the base of the membrane a well marked line can be seen , | and in its neighbourhood there is always one and sometimes two rows of blocks .
In a suitably placed animal an axostyle , apparently resembling that described in Trichomonas , can be seen .
In preparations stained with hsemalaun and eosin , the nucleus is readily recognisable , and a fairly large round body is seen at the anterior end at the origin of the flagellum it is 1909 .
] On Trypanosoma eberthi ( Kent ) , etc. probably the kinetonucleus .
The line along the base of the membrane stains blue , while the blocks and edge of the membrane take up the eosin very vividly .
In hsemalaun preparations which have not been stained with eosin , the blocks and the edge of the membrane may stain blue .
B. The B Form ( Trichomonas Condition ) .
Figs. 2 and 3.\#151 ; The B form may be described as a typical Trichomonas of variable size , apparently resembling the form described by Wenyon from the mouse .
Usually the body is more massive than in the A form , from which it is easily distinguished by the presence of three long conspicuous flagella arising from the anterior end .
In all other points , nucleus , axostyle-line , and blocks , B agrees with A. In living forms , two types of movement have been observed : one closely resembles that of A , the undulating membrane being in active motion , while the anterior flagella trail passively .
The second type of movement is characterised by the activity of the anterior flagella , which strike out in front of the animal .
In the films stained with hsemalaun and eosin , the anterior flagella , which are longer than the body , are very conspicuous .
C. C Form ( Monocercomonas Condition ) .
Figs. 4 and 5.\#151 ; This form is roughly egg-shaped .
On the blunt extremity there is a well marked cytostome , in the neighbourhood of which four long flagella rise .
The body is usually filled with food vacuoles containing bacteria , and the animal is quite active even on the cold stage .
The nucleus in the unstained forms can sometimes be seen as a rather highly refractile spherical mass near the anterior end , and there is no trace of an undulating membrane .
In stained forms there is no trace of the blocks or line ; the nucleus is a spherical object with the chromatin condensed in the membrane , though in some cases there may be a large internal karyhsome .
Possible Transitional Stages .
In addition to these forms , small , rounded , generally motionless forms were met with in which the typical nucleus and blocks of the A form were seen .
Besides these rounded forms , far more elongated forms were found with a similar nucleus and the blocks ; these showed an indication of an undulating membrane in the active motion during life .
In these elongate forms a well marked axostyle was seen .
If we now return to the forms A and B , the similarity between them in all other points except the absence of the three anterior flagella in A is so great that it almost amounts to identity .
On one occasion we saw a living B form with an undulating membrane and posteriorly directed flagella at 12.45 p.m. ; at 1.25 p.m. a distinct split was seen along the middle of one of the three flagella .
It is tempting to suppose that the change Mr. C. H. Martin and Miss M. Robertson .
[ June 18 from A to B consists in a splitting off of a free flagellum from the undulating membrane , this flagellum splitting again to form the three anterior flagella of the .
later stage .
This would appear to explain the difference between the two types of B movement mentioned above , the forms with posteriorly directed flagella representing the early stages of this transition from the A to the B form .
The differences between B and C are at first sight very marked , but it is interesting to note that C forms , with the rudimentary undulating membrane , a line , and a nucleus approximating to the B type , were met with .
Infection .
Every fowl which we examined was infected by one or other of these flagellate forms , usually in large numbers , as is shown in the following table .
Fowl .
Date .
Locality .
Condition .
Csecal contents .
Bectal contents .
Flagellates .
i 15.4 Great House , Abergavenny 2 years old ; fat Light brown liquid , with gas bubbles ; vibrio abundant Darker ; more solid in small quantity Spirochsete present , A , B , C. ii 17.4 Holley 's Farm , Abergavenny Old ben Dark and of an almost earthy consistency ; numerous bacteria and cocci Full of consistent matter A , B , D. hi 19.4 Limavady , County Derry Old hen ; very fat Light brown fluid ; numerous gas bubbles ; H2S ; plump bacteria numerous Same as caecum A , B , C. IV 20.4 Holley 's Farm , Abergavenny Old hen ; fat Csecal contents dark and firm Almost empty B , C. V 20.4 Llanfoist Chick ; 60 hrs .
after hatching Csecal contents dark and firm Beady to defecate ... c. W VT 20.4 Llanfoist Old hen Brown fluid contents Bectum empty A , B. j B , o. j Numerous cysts .
VII 21.4 Great House , Abergavenny Old hen ; very fat Firm and dark Becently defecated VIII 24.4 Llanfoist Chick ; Firm and dark Just about to defe- C. 10 days cate IX 24.4 Limavady , County Derry i Old hen ; Brownish fluid Dark solid mass , largely composed of husks A , B , 0 .
very fat X 24.4 Llanfoist Chick ; Brownish fluid Empty 0 .
1 10 days XI 25.4 Limavady , County Derry Old hen ; Brownish fluid Dark solid mass , mostly husks A , B , 0 .
very fat Marlin \amp ; Roberts on .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. B.Vol .
SLPu 1909 .
] On Trypanosoma eberthi ( Kent ) , etc. 391 Infection is probably only effected by food contaminated by faeces containing cysts of the parasites .
We propose in the course of the summer further investigation in connection between these interesting forms upon artificially infected chicks hatched out in an incubator .
DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES .
[ Plate 8 .
] The figures are drawn at a magnification of about 4500 diameters .
Zeiss 2 mm. 250 mm. tube , and 12 oc .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; A form ( T. eberthi ) , showing nucleus , undulating membrane , blocks , and axostyle .
In typical A forms the free flagellum is longer .
Figs. 2 and 3.\#151 ; B forms ( Trichomonas ) , showing three flagella , undulating membrane , staining line under membrane , axostyle and nucleus .
Figs. 4 and 5.\#151 ; C form ( Monocercomonas ) , showing four flagella , cytostome , nucleus , and food vacuoles .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Small rounded non-motile A form .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; A form , small , showing blocks and axostyle and nucleus , also indication of undulating membrane .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Form possibly intermediate between B and C.

