February 1 , 1849 .
GEORGE RENNIE , Esq. , Treasurer , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following paper was read:-"On the Chemistry of the Urine ; " in three Parts .
By H. Bence Jones , M.D. , M.A. , F.R.S. Part I. On the variations of the Acidity of the Urine in Health .
The mode of examination adopted by the author was the following : Two test solutions were made ; the one with carbonate of soda ; the other with dilute sulphuric acid , of such strength that each measure of a graduated tube , when filled with either solution , was equivalent to one-twelfth of a grain of dry and pure carbonate of soda .
A weighed quantity of urine was neutralized by one or other of the test solutions , and thus the degree of acidity or alkalescence was determined .
Diurnal variations in the acidity of the urine were observed .
The acidity of the urine was found to ebb and flow ; it was greatest a short time before food was taken , and was least about three hours after breakfast , and five or six hours after dinner , when it reached the minimum point ; after which it again increased , and attained the maximum point previous to food being again taken .
If no food was taken , the acidity varied but slightly for twelve hours .
By comparing the effect of vegetable food with animal food , it appeared that the food which irritated the stomach most and caused most secretion of acid in the stomach , caused the greatest oscillations in the urine .
Dilute sulphuric acid taken in large doses produced but little effect on the variations of the acidity of the urine ; but it was proved to increase the acidity of the urine .
Part II .
On the simultaneous variations of the amount of Uric Acid and the Acidity of the Urine in a healthy state .
The result of these experiments is , that there is no relation between the acidity of the urine and the amount of uric acid in it .
The urine that was most acid contained least uric acid ; that which contained most uric acid was not most acid .
All food causes an increase in the amount of uric acid in the urine ; and there is no decided difference between vegetable and animal food , either as to the increase or diminution of the amount of uric acid in the urine .
Part III .
Variations of the Sulphates in the Urine in the healthy state , and on te influence of Sulphuric Acid , Sulphur and the Sulphates , on the Sulphates in the Urine .
The result of these experiments is , that the sulphates in the urine are much increased by food , whether it be vegetable or animal .
Exercise does not produce a marked increase in the sulphates .
Sulphuric acid , when taken in large quantity , increases the sulphates in the urine .
In small quantity , even when long-continued , no effect on the amount of sulphates is manifest .
Sulphur taken as a medicine increases the sulphates in the urine .
Sulphate of soda and sulphate of magnesia produce the most marked increase in the sulphates in the urine .

