]\gt ; On in the Intensity in By H. C. POCKLINGTON , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.E.S. ( Received August 31 , \mdash ; Read December 10 , 1908 .
) Professor Wood* has found that the spectra of an incandescent lamp formed by a rating can have bright and dark lines in them .
These occur at the same place in each order of spectrum , and move through the spectrum when the inclination of the grating altered .
The phenomenon has been investigated by Eayleigh , who discusses the case of diffraction by a grooved reflecting surface .
On account of the analytical difficulties he uses approximations .
In the present paper a theoretical grating is discussed , the phenomena of which can be ated accurately , an advantage that is , however , coupled with the drawback that we cannot feel certain how far the phenomena with those of the ordinary metallic reflection grating .
A theorem that gives the sum of certain infinite series in a finite form , and transforms others into new series , is found in S5 .
2 .
Let the grating consist of an infinite number of very thin rods of specific inductive capacity unity , each electrified to a line density and capable of oscillating , lying at equal distances parallel to each other in a plane .
We take the axis of one of the rods , that of in the plane of the , and that of perpendicular to that plane .
Let the incident waves be pagated in a direction parallel to the plane of and making an angle with the axis of , and let the electric force be .
The displacement of a rod is , where A is complex , unless the phase of the displacement of the rod is the same as that of the wave incident on it .
Since the diffracted waves depend only on the motion of the rods , and are given by a formula without peculiarities , the features that characterise these waves will depend only on the behaviour of the quantity A. 3 .
We first consider the case where the electric vibration in the incident waves is parallel to the rods .
The rods here vibrate .
The forces acting on one of them are : , a force of restitution partly of mechanical origin and partly due to the repulsions of the other rods , say , , a force of * R. W. Wood , ' Phil. Mag Ser. 6 , vol. 4 , 1902 , p. 396 .
Lord Rayleigh , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 79 , 1907 , p. 399 .
Dr. H. C. Pocklington .
On Anornalies in the [ Aug. 31 , electrical origin due to the rod itself and in phase with the motion , which produces an apparent increase in the inertia of the rod ; , a similar force in quadrature with the motion ; iv , another force , due to the action of all the other rods .
The work done by the third force is equal to the energy radiated by an isolated rod , and hence the force is easily shown to be of the form , where is a constant .
4 .
In order to find the value of the last force , we must find the field due to the rods .
Now , the components of the electric force at due to an oscillating charge at are where the distance of from .
On integrating with respect to , we find that X , , and the first term of vanish , and we have , or if where is that second solution of Bessel 's equation , the graph of which at infinity consists of waves of the same amplitude as those of the Bessel 's function , but in quadrature with them .
Hence the mechanica ] force exerted on the rod by the other rods is ( , since 5 .
Consider the expression Its limit when is .
( A ) in the limit , vanishes unless is a nultiple of say and its integral with respect to from a value slightly less Co one htly gxtel .
than one of the critical values is .
Hence the ies also is ( B ) , ' unctions , ' 230 , Ex. 18 .
1908 .
] Intensity in Diffracted where only positive values of the argument are to be taken .
The function need not be continuous .
The value at any point of discontinuity is to be taken to be the mean of the values on either side , and is to be replaced* by .
If vanishes mess lies between certain limits , we may reduce the integral to one taken between these li1nits , and in the Series take only those terms the arguments of which lie between these limits .
6 .
Putting , In the case of the functions , take the integral in the firsb instance from to .
Then , but where we may add or take away any finite number of terms at the end of the series .
Hence , making , our sum is now the force due to the incident waves to the sum of the other forces and the reversed acceleration multiplied by the mass , we have where is the mass per unit length of a rod .
Cf .
Dirichlet 's investigation of 's Selies .
If we ke , we get a theorelu in Elliptic Function. .
Dr. H. C. Pocklingtoll .
On in the [ Aug. 31 , The summations are in case for integral values of .
In the first case such values are to be taken as make the neither negative nor greater than .
In the second case the are not to be less than pa , the in is to from 1 to and each is to be considered as one term ( this the omission of one or two of the three terms from some of the at the crinning of the series ) .
7 .
Now let increase a value .
( 2 ) The first becomes infinite when is infinitesimally greater than this value , and the second becomes infinite when is infinitesimally less than it .
In either case A vanishes .
Hence each of the spectra composing the diffracted will have a dark line for any such value of , if is large , so that the natural period of a rod is small , there will a value of , rather less than that which makes the second infinite , for which the real of the coefficient of A vanishes .
In this case the value of A will be exceptionally .
We have , in fact , a case of resonance .
Hence in each spectrum will be a line near to the dark one and on the red side of it .
8 .
We must now consider the case where the electric force in the incident waves is perpendicular to the rods .
irst let the rods be capable of vibration only in own plane .
The electric force due to a rod is now This is to be multiplied by and sullmed for all values of by .
Now if is any 's function of zero order , is equal to by finite quantity ( for the case / is exclnded ) .
Hence the seaies in question converges and is finite for all values of .
Hencc there are no ularities of the kind that discussed in 9 .
lct the lods bc ) of vibration only at to their lane , incident as ) efore .
The force due to a rod is now is we the force in question 1 that in S 8 from found in S 6 .
force ) ives rise to no ularities , and those that the latter risc1 to already been discussed .
There is , however , one 1908 .
] Intensity in Diffracted feature , for the left-hand side of equation ( 1 ) now is , with the result that there are no diffracted waves if Finally , let the rods be free to } ) rats in any direction .
If the force of restitution is opposite to the displacement the liffracted wave is the sum of those found in SS 8 , 9 , and no new singularities occur .
If the force of restitution is a linear vector function of the displacement the same result seems to hold , but there may be a acted wave in the case of perpendicular incidence .
10 .
We must next consider the effect of change in the angle of incidence of the .
As increases one of the values of given by ( 2 ) increases and the other decreases ; hence one set of dark lines moves towards the blue end of the spectrum and the other towards the red , in each case accompanied more or less closely by the corresponding bright lines .
11 .
We cannot obtain mechanical systems that have frequencies comparable with that of light .
However , when a conducting rod is placed in an electric field perpendicular to it , a displacement of electricity occurs in it which makes it behave in much the same way as if it were a cvidly electrified displaced bodily , and the frequency will be comparable with that of if the diameter of the rod is comparable with the wave-length of light .
The damping due to radiation is also high , and therefore in the case of a wire grating exposed to waves in which the electric force is perpendicular to the wires , we should expect to find the dark lines but not the bright ones .
The kind of grating that seems most favourable to the production of the latter is one in which the are narrow cracks , such as a diamond makes in glass when used to " " cut\ldquo ; it .
Possibly , however , the cracks in a made in the would be so narrow that there would be no appreciable reflection at them , even at very oblique incidences .

