50 Drs. L. Mond , W. Ramsay , and J. Shields .
adapis with the Whales , in the elongation of the anterior part of the brain-cavity , corresponding to the tractus , no instance of a similar reptilian-like conformation of the brain is known to me amongst Mammalia , if I except the Amblypoda , especially the , the brain of which " was proportionally smaller than in any other known Mammal , recent or fossil , and even less than in some reptiles .
It was , indeed , the most reptilian brain in any known Mammal . . . .
The cerebral hemispheres did not extend at all over the cerebellum or the olfactory lobes."* EXPLANATION O PLATE .
Figs. 1\#151 ; 3.\#151 ; Figures of east of brain-cavity of Flacourti , Major , Pleistocene , near Nossi-Ye , S.W. Madagascar .
Original specimen preserved in the British Museum ( Natural History ) .
2/ 3rds natural size .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Yiew of brain , seen from above .
" 2.\#151 ; Side view of same ( s.f. , Sylvian fissure ) .
" 3.\#151 ; Yiew of same , seen from beneath optic nerve ) .
AJ1 drawn 2/ 3rds natural size .
Figs. 4\#151 ; 6.\#151 ; Figures of cast of the brain-cavity of Meg at ad is Major ( 2/ 3rds natural size ) ; Pleistocene , Amboulisatra , S.W. Madagascar .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; View of brain , seen from above ( beak-like projection in front ) .
, , 5.\#151 ; Side view of same .
" 6.\#151 ; Yiew of same , seen from beneath ( o.n. , optic nerve ) .
All drawn 2/ 3rcls natural size .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Brain of Indris(seen from beneath ) , recent ( o.n. , optic nerve ) ; copied from Grandidier .
" 8.\#151 ; Brain of Alligator ( seen from beneath ) , recent ( o.n. , optic nerve ) .
" On the Occlusion of Oxygen and Hydrogen by Platinum Black .
Part II .
" By Ludwig Mond , Ph. D. .
F.R.S. , William Ramsay , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and John Shields , D.Scn Ph. D. Received July 21 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The heat of occlusion of hydrogen in platinum black was determined by saturating the platinum black with hydrogen , extracting as much of this as possible at 184 ' C. by means of the pump , and then readmitting it again whilst the experimental tube was placed in an ice calorimeter .
By proceeding in this way , errors due to the pre-existence of oxygen in the platinum black were avoided , and it was * O. 0 .
Marsh , " Dinocerata .
A Monograph of an extinct Order of gigantic Mammals , " 'Monographs of the United States Geological Survey , ' vol. 10 , Wash-ington , 1886 , pp. 53 , 54 .
Occlusion of Oxygen and Hydrogen by Platinum Black .
51 found that 68'8 K ( 6880 ^-calories ) were evolved per gram of hydrogen occluded .
It is shown that the arguments put forward by Berthelot in favour of the existence of the compounds Pt30H3 and Pt30H3 are not justified .
According to Favre there is a difference between the behaviour of palladium and platinum to hydrogen , inasmuch as when hydrogen is admitted fractionally , in small portions at a time , the heat evolved in the former case is constant , whilst in the latter it becomes less and less .
This difference is apparent only and not real , and is due to the presence of oxygen in the platinum black .
In order to determine the heat of occlusion of oxygen in platinum black , a great many experiments were made to try to remove the oxygen , which is always present , without destroying the occlusive property of the platinum , and so obtain platinum black which would per se occlude oxygen directly at the temperature of the calorimeter , and thus eliminate all corrections for the simultaneous occurrence of other reactions .
Several reducing agents were employed , including sulphur dioxide , carbon monoxide , ammonia , methyl alcohol , and formic acid in the state of vapour and in dilute solution , and it was found that , although the oxygen was removed , the reducing substance or its products of decomposition were occluded by the platinum black , and were just as difficult to remove as the oxygen itself ; and , further , the volume of gas given off , derived from the reducing agent or its decomposition products , was approximately equal to the volume of oxygen originally contained in the platinum black .
In most cases this was about 100 volumes .
An extended series of experiments is described showing how platinum oxygen and platinum hydrogen can exist in the presence of each other .
If the quantity of hydrogen which is theoretically necessary to remove all the oxygen in the form of water be admitted to platinum black , then , instead of removing all the oxygen first with formation of water , the hydrogen only removes the oxygen from the platinum black with which it first comes into contact , and immediately takes its place .
The heat of occlusion of oxygen in platinum black was finally measured both directly and indirectly in the following ways .
Platinum black fully charged with hydrogen was exhausted at 184 ' C. to remove as much of this gas as possible .
The experimental tube was then placed in the calorimeter , and oxygen was added in small quantities at a time .
From the experiments on the co-existence of platinum oxygen with platinum hydrogen , the heat evolved during this process was known to be partially due to the formation of water and partially to the occlusion of oxygen .
The vacuum in the apparatus remained perfect up to a certain point , when the presence of a slight excess of oxygen caused the pressure to increase .
On now admitting oxygen up to full atmospheric pressure , a further small quantity of oxygen was 52 Mr. J. Norman Lockyer .
On Appearance of the occluded , and the heat evolved represented the true heat of occlusion of this quantity of oxygen .
Indirectly , the same value was obtained by charging the platinum black up fully and alternately with hydrogen and oxygen , and finally with oxygen .
The amount of oxygen really occluded in the last charge , and independent of that which had gone to form water , was then found by exhausting in vacuo at a red heat .
The difference between this quantity and the total amount of oxygen used is a measure of the oxygen which formed water with twice as much hydrogen by volume .
Knowing these quantities , the total heat evolved , the heat of formation of water , and the heat absorbed on the removal of hydrogen , we have all the data for calculating the heat of occlusion of oxygen .
In a similar way the amount of heat absorbed per gram of oxygen removed was calculated from the data obtained during the penultimate charge .
The mean value for the heat of occlusion of oxygen , from the direct and indirect measurements , which did not differ much from each other , is + 1T0 K ( 1100 ^-calories ) per gram .
This value referred to 16 grams of oxygen is +176 K , which is almost identical with Thomsen 's measurement of the heat of formation of platinous hydrate Pt(OH)2 , viz. , +179 K. This agreement suggests the possibility that the two phenomena may in reality be identical , the necessary water being always present in platinum black dried in vacuo .
The paper concludes with some speculations on the nature of the occlusion of gases .
" On the Appearance of the Cleveite and other New Gas Lines in the Hottest Stars .
" By J. Norman Lookyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received Jnne 15.\#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
Introductory .
In my recent paper on " The Chemistry of the Hottest Stars , " * I left for future discussion the spectra of those stars apparently at or near the apex of the temperature curve , for the reason that in them the lines of known gases do not show very great variations , while the enhanced lines cease to be of service as a criterion of temperature .
I pointed out , however , that there were several lines , as yet of unknown origin , which are strong in some of these stars and weaker in others , and that the study of these might eventually help us in classifying such stars and arranging them in tempei'ature * ' Roy .
Soc. Pjoc .
, ' vol. 61 , p. 185 .

