On a Cpmbination of Oxymuriatic Gas and Oxygen Gas .
By Humphri Davy , Esq. LL. D. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R.I. Read February 21 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 155 .
] The author , having observed the properties of oxymuriatic gas to be different in consequence of its being prepared in different modes , was endeavouring to determine the nature of these differences , and the causes on which they depend , when he discovered the very singular compound which is the subject of the present paper .
For the formation of this compound , he pours a small quantity of dilute muriatic acid upon a large quantity of hyperoxymuriate of potash .
A gas is then disengaged , which is capable of being absorbed by water , but may be collected over mercury .
It is of a bright yellow colour , approaching to orange , and has nearly the specific gravity of oxymuriatic gas .
It often explodes while collecting , in consequence of heat gene394 , rated ; and it may always be made to explode by the heat of the hand , with instantaneous extrication of heat and light .
After explosion the gas is found to occupy about one sixth part more bulk than before .
From the gas so exploded , oxymuriatic gas may be absorbed by water , and there remains about one third part of oxygen .
When copper , or antimony , or mercury , or iron , are exposed to this gas , it has no action upon them till heat is applied ; but then they burn with a very brilliant light , and generally with explosion .
But charcoal , which has no affinity with oxymuriatic gas , burns only with a dull red light , by union with the diluted oxygen .
Arsenic was acted upon without the application of heat .
After a short time it caused an explosion , and united with the oxymuriatic gas .
Sulphur caused instant explosion , but was not burned .
Phosphorus caused explosion with brilliant light ; and uniting with both constituents , formed phosphoric acid , and solid oxymuriate of phosphorus .
When the gas was mixed with muriatic gas , a gradual diminution of volume took place ; oxymuriatic gas was formed , and dew deposited on the sides of the vessel .
These experiments , says Mr. Davy , enable us to explain the contradictory accounts that have been given of the properties of oxymuriatic gas , which have been confounded with those of the explosive compound .
That the latter has not been collected before , is principally owing to its being absorbed by water , which has generally been used for receiving the products from hyperoxymuriate of potash ; and since water absorbs about ten times its bulk of this gas , nothing could be received in the form of gas but the oxymuriatic , till the water became completely saturated .
The violent explosion , accompanied with heat and light , which is in this instance produced during the separation and expansion of two gases , says Mr. Davy , is a perfectly novel circumstance in chemical philosophy ; but he sees nothing in the properties of this gas which is at variance with the conclusions he has before drawn , as to the undecompounded nature of oxymuriatic gas .
The weakness of the affinity , with which the constituents are united in it , is , on the contrary , perfectly conformable to the supposition of their belonging to the same class of bodies , and to the idea of their being distinct , though analogous species of matter .

