V. An Account of a Treatise entitled , Calculations and Tables relating to the attractive Virtue of Loadstones , &amp;c. Printed Anno 1729 .
THE Author , ( the Hon. Lord Paisley ) by several Experiments very carefully made , has observed , that if two Loadstones are perfectly homogeneous , that is , if their Matter be of the same specific Gravity , and of the same Virtue in all Parts of one Stone , as in the other , and that like Parts of their Surfaces are caped or armed with Iron , then the Weights they sustain will be as the Squares of the Cube Roots of the Weights of the Loadstones ; that is , as their Surfaces .
Upon this Principle the Tables are formed .
The first Column of these Tables is in common to the four following , and helps to show how many times its Weight any Loadstone sustains .
In the second , third , fourth and fifth Columns , are the Weights of Loadstones in different Denominations .
The second , entitled Grains , reaches Grain by Grain to 480 Grains , or one Ounce , and will serve for any Loadstone , whose Weight does not exceed one Ounce .
The third reaches , by Penny-weights , up to two Pounds , or 480 Penny-weights , and therefore serves for any Stone that weighs not less than one Pennyweight , nor more than two Pound .
The fourth Column reaches , by Ounces , up to forty Pounds , or 480 Ounces , and therefore will serve for any Stone not exceeding that Weight .
The fifth serves from one to 480 Pounds .
The sixth Column entitled , Weight sustained , is in common to the four preceding ; and the Numbers in this Table , if they were divided by 10 , would be the Squares of the Cube Roots of the Numbers in natural Order , from 1 to 480 , as they are found in the Column of Pounds .
But these Squares of the Cube Roots are here multiplied by ten , because a Loadstone of the very worst Sort , if it weighs but one Grain , will sustain ten Grains ; and so these Tables , by simple Inspection , show what Number of Grains any Loadstone of that worst Character would sustain , if the Stone weigh not more than 480 Grains , or one Ounce .
The Numbers in the first Column entitled , How often its Weight , are proportional to the Reciprocals of the Cube Roots of the natural Numbers , and are formed by dividing the Numbers of the sixth Column , by the corresponding natural Numbers , as they are found in the Column of Pounds .
For the greater Convenience of Calculation , his Lordship has added Tables ; first of Decimal Parts for Penny-weights , Ounces , and Pounds , in order to lose as little as possible of the Fractions , in the several Calculations .
The next are Tables of Grains , Penny-weights , Ounces , and Pounds , which readily show how many of each Denomination are contained in the others .
The Tables entitled , From Grains to Penny-weights , &amp;c. and the others from the several Denominations to others , are of Use for carrying the Computation readily from any one Denomination to another : And lastly , the Tables at the Bottom of these last mentioned are of the like Use , for the ready finding the Value in Money of any Loadstone , from the Numbers proper to Grains , to Penny-weights , to Ounces , and to Pounds .
The Honourable Author then proceeds to explain the Use of these Tables , by Instances under each Denomination .
Thus , if a Loadstone does not exceed one Ounce , or 480 Grains , the particular Weight of the Stone , with the Weight it sustains , being known , he reduces the Weight sustained to Grains , by the Help of the Table of Grains .
Then looking into the Column of Grains for the Weight of the Stone , against it , in the Column of Weight sustained , he finds the Number of Grains , which a Stone of the worst Sort of this Weight would sustain ; and then dividing the known Number of Grains which this particular Stone will sustain , by the Number of Grains expressed in the Column , the Quotient shows the Character of Goodness in the Stone proposed ; and by the Help of this Number may be known what Weight any other Stone of equal Goodness with this would sustain , let its Weight be less or more , provided it does not exceed one Ounce , or 480 Grains .
For looking into the second Column for the Weight of the Stone , and having found against it , in the sixth Column , the Weight sustained by a bad Stone , if you multiply the Quotient above found , which shows the Character of Goodness , by the Number in the Tables expressing the Weight sustained , the Product is the Number of Grains this particular Stone will sustain .
If a Stone of the same Character weighs more than one Ounce , or 480 Grains , and less than two Pound , to know what Weight this will sustain , the Computation must be transferred from the Column of Grains to that of Penny-weights .
Now since one Pennyweight is equal to twenty-four Grains , and the Weight sustained is to be expressed , not in Grains , but in Pennyweights , the former Number , which gives the Character of Goodness of the Stone for Grains , must be altered , to do the same thing for Penny-weights .
Multiplying therefore this Number by the Reciprocal of the Cube Root of 24 , the Number of Grains contained in one Penny-weight ( and the Numbers in the Tables are formed accordingly ) the Product gives the Number showing the Character of Goodness in this Stone , which being found , the remaining Part of the Operation is the same as in the former .
If a Loadstone exceeds 480 Penny-weights , and is less than forty Pound , we must in like manner find the Number of the Stone for Ounces ; which may be done either by the Number already found for Grains , multiplying it by the Number against Unit in the Table from Grains to Penny-weights , or by the Number for Penny-weights , multiplying it by the Number ber against Unit in the Table from Penny-weights to Ounces , and the Product is the Characteristic Number of this Stone .
Proceeding therefore as in the first Instance , the Weight it will sustain will be found .
The Column of Pounds is only useful where a Loadstone 's Weight exceeds forty Pound , or 480 Ounces , in which Case the same Method must be used as in the others .
To know how many times a Loadstone will take up its own Weight , multiply the Number proper to the Denomination in Use , by the Number in the first Column ( entitled , How often its Weight ) which is against the Weight of the Stone in the Column of that Denomination .
His Lordship closes his Account with explaining the Use of the Tables relating to the Value of Loadstones in Money ; and this he supposes to be in the compound Proportion of the Goodness of the Stone , and of the Weight it sustains ; because if two Loadstones take up the same Weight , the lesser is more valuable , as it does more in Proportion to its Bulk , and what better Rule to estimate the Value by , than the Goodness of the Stone ?
On ~ the other Hand , if the Stones are in Nature equally good , but sustain different Weights , it is reasonable , that their Value should be according to the Weights they sustain .
Both these Circumstances therefore being considered together , in order to find the Value of any Loadstone by the Tables , we must multiply the characteristic Number for the Stone , by the Number entitled , Value in Money , taking this Value in Money from the particular Denomination that the Stone comes under ; and this Product will be the Value , per Ounce , of what the Stone sustains .
Then multiplying tiplying this Value per Ounce , by the Number of Ounces the Stone sustains , will give the Value in Money of the Stone proposed .

