IIl .
" On the Difference in the Properties of Hot-Rolled and Cold-Rolled Malleable Iron , as regards the power of receiving and retaining Induced Magnetism of Subpermanent Character .
" By GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , Esq. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received April 22 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) The author states that he had been desirous of examining whether differences in the degree of change of subpermanent magnetism , such as are exhibited by different iron ships , might not depend on the temperature at which the iron is rolled in the last process of its manufacture .
By the good offices of Mr. Fairbairn he had received gratuitously from Richard Smith , Esq. , Superintendent of Lord Dudley 's Iron Works at the Round Oak Works near Dudley , twentyfour plates of iron , each 16 inches long , 4 inches broad , and 4 inch thick ; twelve of which , after having been manufactured with the others in the usual way , had been passed through rollers when quite cold .
Each set of twelve was divided into two parcels of six each , one parcel being cut with the length of the bars in the length of extension of the fibres of the iron , the other being cut with the length of the bars transverse to the length of extension .
For experimenting on these , a large wooden frame was prepared , capable of receiving the 24 bars at once , either on a plane transverse to the direction of dip at Greenwich , or on a plane including the direction of dip .
In some experiments , these planes were covered with flag-stones , and the bars were laid upon the flag-stones ; in others , the bars were laid immediately upon the wood .
While there lying , they were struck with iron or wooden hammers of different sizes .
The bars of the different classes were systematically intermingled , in such a way that no tendency of the arm to give blows of a different force or kind in special parts of the series could produce a class-error in the result .
For examination of the amount of polar magnetism in each bar , it was placed at a definite distance ( 5 inches ) below a prismatic compass , which was used to observe the apparent azimuth of a fixed mark ; the bar was then reversed in length , and the observation was repeated in that state .
The number of experiments was 21 .
They were varied by difference in the succession of positions of the bars , difference of time allowed for rest , difference in the violence of the blows , &amp;c. The principal results appear to be the following:1 .
The greatest amount of magnetism which a bar can receive , appears to be such as will produce ( on the average of bars ) a compass-deviation of about 11 ?
, the bar being 5 inches below the compass .
It was indifferent whether the bars rested on stone or on wood , or whether they were struck with iron or with wood , the bars lying on the dip plane while struck .
2 .
When the bars , thus charged , lay on the plane transverse to the dip , they lost about one-fifth of their magnetism in one or two days , and lost very little afterwards .
3 .
When the charge of magnetism is smaller than the maximum , the diminution in a day or two is nearly in the same proportion as for the maximum .
4 .
The effect of violence on the bars , when lying on the plane transverse to the dip , is not in all cases to destroy the magnetism completely , sometimes it increases the magnetism .
5 .
The Cold-Rolled Iron receives ( under similar violence ) or parts with ( under similar violence ) a greater amount of magnetism than the Hot-Rolled Iron , in the proportion of 6 to 5 .
6 .
There is some reason to think that the Hot-Rolled Iron has a greater tendency to retain its primitive magnetism than the ColdRolled Iron has .
7 .
There is some reason to think that , when lying tranquil , the Hot-Rolled Iron loses a larger portion of its magnetism than the Cold-Rolled Iron loses in the same time .

