]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF HE February 16 , 1893 .
The LORD KELVTN , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read : I. " " On a Portable Ophthalmometer By THOMAS REID , M.D. Connnunicated by LORD ]jLVIN , P.R.S. Received January 1 , 1893 .
The object of the instrument about to be described is to measure the curvature of the central area of the cornea , the polar or optical or of any spherical reflecting surface of from 6 to 10 mm. of radius .
In its present form the instrument can only be applied to the measurement of the corneal surface in the visual line .
As this is area of the cornea utilised for distinct vision , this rnment furnishes all the data practically requisite for the osis and measurement of corneal astigmatism .
The theory of its construction is based on a particular application of the following well-known optical law .
that when two centred optical systems are so combined that their principal foci coincide , the ratio of the size of to the size of the image formed by combined systems is equal to the ratio of the foci of the two optical systems , adjacent respective ] to object and .
The two optical systems in this case are the convex lens of the instrument cornea as a reflecting surface , with the object in the cipaI focus of the adjoining optical system .
:\mdash ; ( vide fig. 1 ) .
Let MM ' be the convex lens of known focus , A the Ilcal s the point where their principal foci coincide .
VOL. LIII .
Dr. T. Reid .
[ Feb. 16 , FIG. 1 .
I et SP be an object situated at the incipal focal distance of and let XX ' be the principal axis of the system .
Then a ray SM parallel to the axis will , after refraction , be ected to the principal focus of the curved surface of the cornea , and therefore be reflected in the direction IB parallel to the axis IB prolonged will meet the ray directed to the centre at the ; therefore is the image of , and the image of , and in the principal focus of the convex surface .
In the similar triangles MP'O and IP'A , P'O MO ' and IS ' , the prolongation of the reflected parallel to the refore and Therefol.e or ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( I ) ; refore .
Descrip from of the he essential parts of the instrument an ) ) convex lcns of known focus , a ) rism neutralised its by smaller prism , one side of the being djacent to the a cular or other disc ) osite t other in foc of the lens .
] the instrument is in front of the convex reflecting surface with the disc turned towttrds a luminous 1893 .
] On a Portable Ophthalmometer .
, a vi1tual image of bhe disc be formed at the virtual focus of the nvex reflecting surface .
This will only be seen distinctly by the emmetropic eye through the neutralised portion of the prism , when the of the lens in front coincides wich the virtuaI focus of the convex stlrface .
The ratio of the object to the image will be as shown above .
If now a double-imags prism be inserted behind the neutralising prism , which exactly doubles this image , its power with the combination is easily determined , and therefore the exact size of the image can be measured .
The size of the object being kmown , we have the three elements necessary for determining the fourth proportional , the curvature of the convex eflccting surface .
The instrument in this simple form presented a number of practical difficulties in its manipulation , which were overcome by the introduction of a short telesoope behind , with double-image fixed in front of its )-glass .
In its presenform the instrument sists of the following parts :\mdash ; An natic lens Ob , a nlar prism tralised in the visual axis by a smaller prism and a telescope , with the -image prism BP fixed in front of the object glass scope O. The focal length of the Ob : is pre- c.isely the same as that of the aplanatic lens Ob , and cross }ircs CW at its principal foc are viswed by a ltamsden Before the instrument it is necesssly and sufficienb that the cross wires should be distinct ] seen at the of the bscrvcr .
adjusted instl'ument is held in the observer 's left resbs on the forohead of the patient , the disc being a luminous source to the right of tne observe ] ' .
point of donce of the principal foci is by the meant to and .
Whcn observed eye is dil.ectod to the objecb-glass been specially truckd { ) to ) of Abbe , and contaius rium glass as one of its constituents .
Dr. T. Reid .
[ Feb. 16 , fixation point and his visual line is verticaI to the point of the cornea through which it passes , the corneal image doubled and inverted ought to be seen in the centre of the field .
Instead of using circular discs of differeTlt dimensions , the size of image required to produce exact contact in any meridian is conveniently and quickly obtained by the required change in the size of a coustructed iris diaphragm .
By using a circuIar object , the circular , elliptica ] , or irregular form of the image reveals at once the condition of the surface .
When the image is elliptical , the meridian of greatest cnrvature is easily found by rotation of the telescope , and a rotation of gi a controIling observation .
By a similar process the meridian of ] east curvature is mined .
Graduation of the Instrument .
Let be the power in dioptres of the cornea as a refracting surface , with a medium behind it of uniform density having an index of refraction approximately . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Combining equation ( I ) with ( II ) , ' .
In the present instrument , and therefore , ; 3.24 therefore lD rather less than mm. The is divided into two parts , outer and nner .
The outer size of image , and the inrel the dioptres .
The of refinement with which the mensurcments m be carried out depends entirely on the degree of exactness of determina1893 .
] On a Portable Ophthalmometer .
tion of the constants , especially I and F. I has been determined exactly to ) incl ) , and can -be estimated to about The focal length of the object-glass can be determined Cornu 's method , but in it is more convenient to measure two curved SUl.faces whose radii are exactl .
known , and within the limits of the instrunlent .
The index error is found by taking the number of dioptres at sufliciently intervals within the limits of the instrument .
this lstrument , if we take the extremes of the index , mm. and mm. , we find the diopbres are and 5184 D. The index being aduated in thirds of a , the index error of each division is nearly , which is positive .
If the double prism be now removed , the image being single , and the pupillary opening generaliy distinctly visible , it affords a means of whether the visual axis passes throug.h the celltre of the pupil .
It will be seen that this instrument differs from the ophthalmometer of Helmholtz , the mosb perfect instrument and practically which has been devised for this purpose , in which , while the object is constant , the image varies with the of the surface , but always covers the same angular interval of tlJe surface .
It rescmbles the pratique of Javal and Schiotz , which the is effected by oi a double-image prism insel.ted between two acbromatic lenses of equal focus , so that while the image is constant the object is made to vary .
With this instruInent , when the difference of curvature of the principal meridians is considel'able , amounting to 3 or 4 dioptres , in order to obtaill approximately accurate it is necessary to insert birefi prisms of different powers , giving images of from 1 to 3 mm. In the present instrument the image of 2 mm. has been selected as giving sufficiently accurate results for most practical purposes , with ision , as it does , a difference of refraction of half a For cases outside the limits already referx.ed to ( 6 to 10 mm. ) isms of suitable powers can be substituted .

