2 .
That pressure alone is not the cause of the deformity .
3 .
That besides the softening effect of continuous moisture acting for ages upon the cartilaginous or animal matter of the bones , there is proof of the presence of free carbonic and nitric acids very generally in soils , and more particularly in black mould , such as that of the Orchard at Wroxeter .
4 .
Nitric acid may also be discovered in small quantity .
But carbonic acid is almost always present in soil where air and moisture come in contact with organic matters in a state of decomposition .
He thinks that this is the principal cause of the solution of bone in the earth , rendering it softer , and more ready to bend or break .
5 .
That the distortion must occur at a comparatively early period after interment , because when all , or nearly all , the animal matter of the bones is destroyed , they cannot bend .
Lastly .
That some of the apparently bent bones are really broken ; Professor Wyville Thomson , of Belfast , having first pointed out to the author minute cracks or fissures in some of the distorted crania .
mitting to this Society .
I trust that , under these circumstances , I may be pardoned for bringing before the Royal Society an incomplete account of this new element .
The occurrence of a brilliant green line in some selenium residues , whilst examining them for tellurium , led me first to suspect the presence of a new element .
This had been derived from a considerable quantity of the seleniferous deposit from the sulphuric acid manufactory at Tilkerode in the I-Iartz Mountains , which had been kindly placed at my disposal by Professor Hofmann ; and the residue was that left behind on distilling the selenium which had been prepared from the deposit by appropriate chemical treatment .
The processes through which it had passed limited the elements which could by any possibility be present to some half dozen ; and as I was pretty confident that none of these presented in the spectroscope the phenomenon of a single bright-green line , it became of interest to investigate the subject further .
In March 1861 *I was enabled to announce definitely that the green-line substance was decidedly a new element , and that from some of its reactions it was probably a high member of the sulphur , selenium , and tellurium group , although I hesitated to assert this positively .
The paper alluded to contained a sufficient number of the reactions of this body to enable me to prove chemically , as well as optically , that I was dealing with a new element possessing well-defined characters .
Pursuing the investigation , I was enabled in the following Mayt to give a further account of this body , and to propose for it the name of Thallium ( symbol TI ) , from the Greek OaXXos , or Latin thallus , a budding twig , -a word which is frequently employed to express the beautiful green tint of young vegetation , and which I chose on account of the green line which it communicated to the spectrum recalling with peculiar vividness the fresh colour of early spring .
In the same note I gave the localities and description of several minerals in which I had found the element , and also a method of extracting it from them in a pure state .
Considering that I had sufficiently announced the discovery in these papers , which were republished in nearly every chemical journal in Europe , I turned my ?
Philosophical Magazine , S. 4 .
vol. xxi .
p. 301 ; and Chemical News , vol. iii .
p. 194 , March 30 , 1861 .
t Chemical News , vol. iii .
p. 303 , May 18 , 1861L 1 attention towards procuring a source of thallium which would enable me to prepare this body on the large scale ; my experiments having hitherto been confined to mineralogical specimens which I had difficulty in tracing to their source , and the whole amount of thallium which I had as yet obtained not exceeding three grains in weight .
After some delay , Mr. Thornthwaite was good enough to supply me with a considerable quantity of crude sulphur distilled from Spanish copper pyrites .
In this I found thallium present to the extent of one or two grains to the pound , and up to within the last few months it has been from the element prepared from this source that I have been working .
I have recently , however , succeeded in finding an ore containing thallium , which is worked in this country , and from which I hope to be able to prepare the metal in larger quantities .
I have found the following the most advantageous method for extracting the new element from sulphur or pyrites : Powder the ore very finely , and dissolve it as completely as possible in strong hydrochloric acid , with gradual addition of nitric acid until all solvent action ceases ; then dilute with water , and filter .
Evaporate down to drive off the excess of nitric acid , add a little sulphuric acid if necessary , and take care that thei solution does not get dry , or even pasty .
Then dilute with water , and heat gently , to be certain of getting all the soluble portion dissolved .
Filter : if lead be present , the greater portion will be left behind in this operation in the form of insoluble sulphate .
Dilute the filtrate considerably , and add a solution of carbonate of soda until the reaction is distinctly alkaline ; then add an excess of solution of cyanide of potassium ( free from sulphide of potassium ) .
Heat gently for some time , and then filter .
The precipitate contains the whole of the lead and bismuth which may be present as carbonates , whilst the thallium is in solution .
A current of sulphuretted hydrogen now being passed through the liquid , precipitates all the thallium , whilst the copper , antimony , tin , and arsenic remain dissolved .
' If cadmium and mercury are present , they will accompany the thallium .
The former can readily be dissolved out by warm dilute sulphuric acid , which has scarcely any solvent action on the sulphide of thallium , whilst this in its turn can be separated from the sulphide of mercury by being boiled in moderately dilute nitric acid , in which the sulphide of mercury is insoluble .
These two metals are , however , seldom present with thallium in the ores which I have examined .
The nitric-acid solution is now to be evaporated to dryness , the residue dissolved in hot dilute sulphuric acid , and a piece of pure metallic zinc placed in the liquid ; the thallium will be at once precipitated in the form of a deep-brown powder , which soon changes to a heavy black , granular precipitate .
The metal can be obtained in the coherent form by fusion in hydrogen .
This method of analysis is given on the supposition that all the above metals are present .
It may generally be much abridged , as the ore is seldom of so complicated a character .
If there is a difficulty in procuringperfectly pure zinc for the reduction of the sulphate to the metallic state , this can be effected by passing a weak voltaic current through the liquid , using platinum poles ; the metal will then be precipitated in the reguline , or spongy state , according to the strength of the current .
I have not been very successful in reducing the oxide by hydrogen .
The current of gas carries the volatile oxide away from the heated part of the tube before complete reduction takes place .
It is , however , probable , from an observation made towards the conclusion of this experiment , that , with a longer tube in proportion to the quantity of material , kept at a good heat throughout its length , this plan might give good results , the metal being considerably less volatile than the oxide .
In many cases , when minute traces only of thallium accompany large quantities of other metals , it may be advisable to repeat the whole or some of the above operations , in order to purify this element from foreign metals which may have escaped complete removal .
I now pass on to a description of thallium and its chemical reactions .
Thallium in the pure state is a heavy metal , bearing a remarkable resemblance to lead in its physical properties .
Its specific gravity is , however , higher-about 12 .
The freshly scraped surface has a brilliant metallic lustre not quite so blue in colour as lead , and it tarnishes more rapidly than this latter metal .
It is very soft , being readily cut with a knife and indented with the nail ; it may also be hammered out and drawn into wire , but has not much tenacity in this form .
It easily marks paper .
The fusing-point is below redness , and with care several pieces may be melted together and cast into one lump .
There is , however , generally a loss in this operation , owing to its rapid oxidation .
The metal itself does not appear to be sensibly volatile below a red heat .
I have made no special attempts at present to determine the atomic weight , although from two estimations of the amount of sulphur in the sulphide it appears to be very heavy .
The figures obtained did not , however , agree well enough to enable me to speak more definitely on this point , than that I believe it to be above 100 .
I may mention that I obtained this element in the pure metallic state and exhibited it to several friends as early as January last * , and should then have published an account of it , had it not been for the reasons already mentioned .
Thallium is soluble in nitric , hydrochloric , and sulphuric acids , the former attacking it with greatest energy , with evolution of red vapours .
Oxides of Thallium.-Thallium forms two , and probably three oxides : one possessing basic properties , which I shall call the oxide ; another containing more oxygen , possessing acid properties , which may therefore be called thallic acid ; and most likely a third , or suboxide , which forms the first portions of the precipitate formed by zinc in solutions of this metal ; the first action being a darkening of the solution , and the production of a deep-brown powder , which by longer contact with zinc turns to a dense black precipitate .
Upon carefully evaporating the nitric-acid solution upon a waterbath , but not carrying it to dryness , a mass of deliquescent crystals is obtained on cooling , which are decomposed upon addition of water with separation of a white or pale-yellow precipitate , which appears to be a subnitrate , and an acid solution containing nitrate of thallium .
If the liquid is evaporated quite to dryness and kept at a temperature of 100 ?
C. for a little time , the nitric acid goes off , and leaves a residue of thallic acid .
Thallic Acid.-This acid is soluble in water , and may be obtained in the crystalline form from its aqueous solution .
It then forms crystals , which are permanent in the air , and have an acid reaction to test-paper .
The thallates of the alkalies are also soluble in water , an( may be prepared by dissolving the acid in the alkali , or by fusing thallium or its oxide with a mixture of alkaline carbonate and nitrate .
The method I originally published for extracting thallium was based upon the formation in this manner of an alkaline thallate soluble in water .
This acid is also produced in solution when permanganate of potash is added to a soluble salt of oxide of thallium .
Chloride of Thallium.-If a current of dry chlorine is passed over precipitated thallium at a moderate heat , they combine with formation of a volatile chloride , which condenses in the cool part of the tube in the form of a pale-yellow crystalline powder , fusing together in parts to a crystalline lump .
Water only partially dissolves this , with production of a white insoluble residue .
Dilute hydrochloric acid added to the turbid solution immediately renders it clear ; upon evaporating this solution over a water-bath , white crystals of the chloride are deposited .
When the nitric-acid solution of thallium or its sulphide is evaporated with an excess of hydrochloric acid , and then more hydrochloric acid added and the evaporation repeated to a syrup , a residue is obtained which is apparently decomposed by water with production of a white precipitate : this is chloride of thallium ; it is insoluble or nearly so in water , but readily soluble in dilute hydrochloric or nitric acid .
Sulphide of Thallium.-When sulphuretted hydrogen is passed through the acid solution of chloride of thallium , a partial precipitation of a reddish-brown powder takes place ; this appears to be a combination of the chloride and sulphide , and the metal is never entirely removed from solution by this means .
The best method of obtaining the sulphide is to precipitate it with sulphide of ammonium in an alkaline solution : unless a large quantity of thallium is present , no immediate effect is produced beyond the darkening of the liquid ; it assumes a brown tint , which becomes rapidly more and more intense , especially upon gently heating it , until the sulphide of thallium separates in the form of a deep-brown heavy precipitate which shows a great tendency to collect together in clots at the bottom of the vessel : this formation of the sulphide is very characteristic of the metal .
Sulphide of thallium is insoluble in an excess of sulphide of ammonium , ammonia , or cyanide of potassium .
Its complete precipitation as sulphide from solutions containing an excess of cyanide of potassium affords a ready means of separating thallium from several metals with which it is frequently associated .
It is difficultly soluble in hydrochloric or sulphuric acids , but readily so in nitric acid .
When dry , it is a deep-brown , almost black powder , fusing and volatilizing when heated : when pure , it is neither so fusible nor so volatile as sulphur ; but when it occurs with an excess of this latter element , it is very difficult to separate from it by sublimation .
Carbonate of Thallium is precipitated upon adding an alkaline carbonate to the acid chloride solution ; it is moderately soluble in an excess of carbonate of ammonia , and readily so in cyanide of potassium .
This is a very definite reaction , and enables thallium to be separated with accuracy from lead and bismuth .
Sulphate of Thallium.-When the hydrochloric or nitric solution is evaporated down with sulphuric acid , the more volatile acid is driven off and the sulphate is left behind .
It is crystalline and soluble in water .
Iodide of Thallium is precipitated as a yellowish-red powder upon cautious addition of iodide of potassium to a solution of thallium .
It is readily soluble in excess of iodide of potassium , forming a colourless solution .
Phosphate of Thallium forms a white flocculent precipitate soluble in mineral acids , but sparingly soluble in acetic acid .
Ferrocyanide of Thallium is white and insoluble in water .
Cyanide of Thallium is precipitated as a white or light-brown powder upon the cautious addition of cyanide of potassium to a solution of thallium .
It is readily soluble in an excess of the precipitant .
Chromate of Thallium is a pale-yellow precipitate soluble in acids and reprecipitated upon neutralization with ammonia .
No precipitates are produced when a solution of thallium is mixed with protochloride of tin , oxalic acid , carbazotic acid , sutlphurous acid , or protosulphate of iron .
Most of these reactions have been independently verified by my friends E. 0 .
Brown , Esq. , and J. Spiller , Esq. , of the Chemical Department , Woolwich Arsenal ; and I am glad to be enabled to take this opportunity of expressing my obligations to them for their valuable aid .
The reactions are sufficient to prove chemically that the body under examination is a new element .
Its behaviour in the spectrum apparatus is perhaps the most conclusive test upon this point .
When a minute portion of the metal ( the sulphide , chloride , or , in fact , any compound of thallium ) is introduced into the flame of the spectroscope , it immediately produces a single green line , perfectly sharp and well defined upon a black ground , and of extraordinary purity and intensity , almost equal to the sodium-line in brilliancy .
It is not , however , very lasting .
Owing to its great volatility , a portion introduced at once into the flame merely shows the line as a brilliant flash , remaining only a fraction of a second ; but if it be introduced into the flame gradually , the line continues present for a much longer time .
If , also , a piece of metallic thallium be introduced into the flame on a platinum wire loop , they fiuse together , and the alloy gives the green line rather more permanently , although of course fainter .
Working on a small scale , it is not easy to obtain these compounds free from soda ; but when that is effected , and a tolerable quantity of substance is held on a loop of platinum wire in a flame , the green colour is most brilliant , and produces very extraordinary effects upon the appearance of surrounding objects .
If thallium could be obtained in quantity , this ready means of producing an intense and homogeneous green light could not fail to be applicable to some usefil purpose .
The green line of the thallium spectrum appears to be unaccompanied by any line or band in other parts of the spectrum .
A flame of sufficient temperature to bring the orange line of lithium into view produces no addition to the one thallium-line ; and an application of telescopic power strong enough to separate the two sodium-lines a considerable distance apart still shows the thallium-line single .
I consider therefore that I am justified in stating that thallium produces the simplest spectrum of any 7knoton element .
Theoretical inquiries into the cause of the spectrum lines , and their relation to other constants of an element , may be facilitated now we know a metal which gives rise to luminous vibrations of only one degree of refrangibility .
The remarkable simplicity of the thallium spectrum offers a strong contrast to the complicated spectra given by mercury , bismuth , and lead the metals to which it has the most chemical resemblance .
The position of the green line does not coincide with any definite line in the solar spectrum .
According to Kirchhoff 's theory , we must 1862 .
therefore assume that thallium is not present to any great extent in the sun .
Under the highest telescopic power of my apparatus , the line appears to be absolutely identical in refrangibility with a sharp welldefined line in the barium spectrum , to which Professors Bunsen and Kirchhoff have given the name BaB .
Want of material has hitherto prevented me from taking accurate measurements of the distance between the thallium-line and the principal lines of the solar spectrum .
This green line is an exquisitely delicate test for the presence of thallium , and shows it to be a somewhat widely distributed element .
Many specimens of crude sulphur contain it ( especially when rather dark-looking ) .
In most cases it is only necessary to set fire to as large a piece of sulphur ( less than a pea ) as the platinum loop will hold , and when it has nearly burned away to blow it out , and then introduce it at leisure into the flame of the spectroscope , for the thallium to show its presence by a bright-green line which will flash for an instant into the field of view .
Although the greater part of the thallium is left behind after burning off the excess of sulphur in this manner , some of it volatilizes , and consequently , if the specimen gives no indications of thallium by this treatment , it will be advisable to dissolve out as much of the sulphur as possible with bisulphide of carbon , and then to test the residue in the flame .
Thallium is a constituent of very many mineral ores .
Upon examining a large collection of cupriferous pyrites from different parts of the world , I found it present in more than one-eighth .
It is not confined to any particular locality ; neither does it seem to bear any relation to the presence or absence of arsenic in the mineral .
I have , however , very rarely met with it in pyrites in which copper was absent .
In most cases it is only necessary to powder a small fragment of the mineral and ignite a little of it in the flame on a moistened platinum wire , for the green line to be distinctly visible .
If a thalliferous pyrites is finely powdered and then heated to redness in a glass tube , as much as possible out of contact with air , the sulphide of thallium , together with some free sulphur , sublimes from it and may be condensed by appropriate arrangement .
This sublimate gives the thallium-line with great brilliancy .
Owing to the frequent occurrence of thallium in copper ores , it is very probable that this element may sometimes be present in commercial copper , and may give rise to some of the well-known , but unexplained , differences of its quality .
I am at present engaged in investigating this subject , and have already found some indications of thallium in commercial products .
I have no hesitation in saying that in some of our large copper , sulphur , and sulphuric-acid works , thallium is at the present time being thrown away by the hundredweight : a very slight modification of the present arrangements of the furnaces and condensing flues , or even an examination of some of the residues , would enable nearly the whole of this to be saved .
Bearing this in view , I am now in communication with several large consumers of thalliferous minerals .
My applications have without exception .
been met with the utmost courtesy and most obliging offers of assistance , and there is therefore every probability that I shall soon have an opportunity of preparing this new element in considerable quantities , and thus be enabled to pursue the investigation with more comfort and accuracy than hitherto , when my stock of material has had to be counted by the grain .

