]\gt ; discrepancy in the formula given by myself and by M. for tlm induction of a coil of ciroular cross section over whioh tk uIltnt : uniformly .
With omission of , repoesentative of Ue nuznber windings , my formula was where is the radius of the seotion and that of th9 oircular axis .
first two terms were given long before by Kirchhoff .
In place oTUe fourth term within the bracket , viz. , aeund In either case a correction would be neoessary in practice to take account'of the space occupied by the insulation .
Without , so far as I see , giving a reason , Rosa and Cohen express a preference for number .
difference is of no great importance .
but I have thought it worth while to repeat the calculation and I obtain the same result as in 1881 .
A confirmation after 30 years , and without reference to notes , is perhaps almost as good as if it were independent .
I propose to exhibit the main steps of the calculation and to make extension to some related problems .
The starting point is the expression given by for the mutual .
induction between two neighbouring co-axial circuits .
For the present .
purpose this requires transformation , so as to express the in terms of the situation of the elementary circuits relatively to the circularaxis .
In the figure , is the centre of the circular axis , the centre of .
a section through the axis of symmetry , and the posi of any of the section is given by polar -ordinates relatively to A. , by *'Bulletin of the Bureau tandards , Wuhing vol. No. 1 . .
Soa Proc. , ' 1881 , vol. p. 104 ; cientiAo P 'Ann .
\amp ; ' lS94 , bS p. ; it would did by angle PAC ) .
, be the co-ordinates of two points of the section , P2 , the mutual induction between the two circular circuits represented by , P2 is ately .
, ( 2 ) in which , the distance between and , is given by .
Further details will be found in Wien 's memoir ; do not repeat them because I am in complete agreement so far .
For the problem of a current uniformly distributed we are to integrate ( 2 ) twice over the area of the section .
'Taking first the integrations with respect to , let us express , ( 4 ) of which we can also make another application .
The integration of the terms which do not inYolve is elementary .
For those which do involve we may conveniently replace by , where and take first the integration with respect to being constant .
Subsequently we integrate with respect to It is evident that the terms in ( 2 ) which involve the first power of vanish in the integration .
For a change of , into respectively reverses and it leaves unaltered .
The definite integrals required for the other terms are* * Todhunter 's ' Int. Odc SS287 , 289 .
fflectric Currents in Thin Anchor-Ring .
Thus altogether the terms in ( 2 ) of the second .
order involving yield in ( 4 ) [ greater of and ] smaller of and .
( 15 ) The complete value of ( 4 ) to this order of approximation is found by addition of ( 8 ) , ( 10 ) , and ( 15 ) .
By making and equal we obtain at once for the self-induction of a current hmited to the circumference of an anchor-ring , and uniformly dis- tributed over that circumference , , ( 16 ) being the radius of the circular section .
The value of for this case , when is neglected , was virtually given by Maxwell .
* When th6 current is uniformly distributed over the area of the section we have to integrate again with respect to and between the limits and in each case .
For the more important terms we have from ( 8 ) [ -greater of and ] .
( 17 ) A similar operation performed upon ( 10 ) gives .
( 18 ) In like manner , the first part of ( 15 ) yields .
For the second part we have [ smaller of ] ; thus ether from ( 15 ) .
( 19 ) The terms of the second order are accordingly , by addition of ( 18 ) and ( 19 ) , .
( 20 ) 'Electricity and Nagnetism , ' SS692 , 706 .
{ -greater of and } .
( 26 ) The first part of this is , and the second is The additional terms are accordingly These multiplied by aoe to be added to ( 1 ) .
We thus obtain ( 28 ) for the self-induction of the solid ring when currents are slowly generated in it by uniform magnetic forces palallel to the axis of symmetry .
In Wien 's result for this case there appears an additional term within the bracket equal to A more interesting problem is that which arises when the alternations in the magnetic field are rapid instead of slow .
Ultimately the distribution of current becomes independent of renstance , and is determined by induction alone .
A leading feature is that the currents are superficial , although the ring itself may be solid .
They remain , of course , symmetrical with respect to the straight axis , and to the plane ich contains the circular axis .
The magnetic field may be supposed to be due to a current in a circuit at a distance , and the whole energy of the field may be represented by , etc. , being currents in other circuits where no independent electromotive force acts .
If be regarded as given , the corresponding values of , are to be found by making a minimum .
Thus ( 30 ) and so on , are the equations by which , etc. , are to be found in terms of What we require is the corresponding value of , formed from by omission of the terms containing only the leading term need be retained .
The ratio of to is to be found by elimination of between ( 35 ) .
( 36 ) .
We get .
( 38 ) Substituting this in ( 34 ) , we find as the coefficient of self-induction .
( 39 ) The approximate value of in terms of is .
( 40 ) A closer approximation can be found by elimination of between ( 35 ) , ( 36 ) .
In ( 39 ) the currents are supposed to be induced by the variation ( in time ) of an unlimited uniform magnetic field .
A problem , simpler the theoretical point of view , arises if we suppose the uniform field to be limited to a cylindrical space co-axial with the ring , and of diameter less than the smallest diameter of the ring .
Such a field may be supposed to be due to a cylindrical current sheet , the length of the cylinder being infinite .
The ring currents to be investigated are those arising from the instantaneous abolition of the current sheet and its conductor .
If be the area of the cylinder , ( 33 ) is replaced simply by .
( 41 ) The expression ( 34 ) remains unaltered and the equations replacing ( 35 ) , ( 36 ) , are thus .
( 42 ) .
( 43 ) The introduction of ( 43 ) into 34 ) gives for the coefficient of self-induction in this case\mdash ; .
( 44 ) It will be observed that the sign of is different in ( 38 ) and ( 43 ) . .
If the density be unity , the kinetic energy of the motion has .
the ( 46 ) having th6 value given in ( 44 ) .
P.S. , March 4.\mdash ; Sir W. D. Niven , who in 1881 verified some other results for self-induction\mdash ; those numbered ( 11 ) , ( 12 ) in the paper referred to\mdash ; has been good enough to confirm the formulae ( 1 ) , ( 28 ) of the present communica- tion , in which I differ from M. Wien .
The Diffusion and Mobility of Ions in Magrtetic Field .
By JOHN S. TOWNSEND , F.R.S. , Wykeham Professor of Physics , Oxford .
Received March ll , \mdash ; Read Apri125 , 1912 .
) 1 .
When the motion of ions in a gas takes place in a magnetic field the rates of diffusion and the velocities due to an electric force may be determined by methods similar to those given in a previous paper .
* The effect of the magnetic field may be determined by considering the motion of each ion between collisions with molecules .
The magnetic force causes the ions to be deflected in their free paths , and when no electric force is acting the paths are spirals , the axes being along the direction of the magnetio force .
If be the intensity of the magnetic field , the charge , and the mass of an ion , then the radius of the spiral is being the velocity in the direction perpendicular to H. The distance that the ion travels in the interval between two collisions in a direction normal to the magnetic force is a chord of the circle of radius .
The average lengths of these chords may be reduced to any fraction of the projection of the mean free path in the direction of the magnetic force , so that the rate of diffusion of ions in the directions perpendicular to the magnetic force is less than the rate of diffusion in the direction of the force .
In the previous paper it has been shown that the coefficient of diffusion is a measure of the rate of increase of the mean square the distance of any distribution from any being equal to Since Fbbuary , 1918 , vol. 86 .

