OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
The Rey .
William Branwhite Clarke was born 2nd June , 1798 , at East Bergholt , county of Suffolk , and educated partly in his father 's house , under the Rev. R. G. Suckling Browne , B.D. , a distinguished Hebrew scholar , and Fellow of Dulwich College , and partly at Dedham Grammar School ; he entered into residence at Jesus College , Cambridge , in October , 1817 .
He took his degree in January , 1821 , and in 1824 became M.A. In May , 1821 , he received deacon 's orders from Dr. Bathurst , Bishop of Norwich , and priest 's orders in May , 1823 .
From May , 1821 , to November , 1824 , he was trained as curate at Ramsholt , at Nedging and Whatfield , at Chellesworth and Brantham , and then in his native parish .
He took advantage of his rector 's permission to travel every year , and thus laid the foundation of practical application of the geological and mineralogical lessons he had received at the University , under Professor Sedgwick and Dr. E. Clarke , the great traveller .
He made a personal examination of the most celebrated formations of Europe .
He travelled extensively in England and Wales and on the Continent from 1820 to 1839 , not omitting a single year .
He thus visited the Lake District , the Isle of Man , Staffordshire , Derbyshire , North Wales , the chalk and oolite of Yorkshire and Lincolnshire , the chalk of Sussex and Normandy , the central and southern parts of France , the Alps and North of Italy , the Netherlands , Rhenish provinces , Prussia , Belgium , the Ardennes , the tertiary districts of Nassau , the volcanic districts of the Rhine and Moselle .
In 1829 he completed His survey of the counties of Suffolk , Norfolk , and Essex .
In 1830 he visited the chalk districts and older formations of the frontiers of France and Belgium .
Then followed Dorsetshire , West of England , Isle of Wight , Sussex , Southwest of England , the coal beds of the Boulonnais , the North of France , the Channel Islands and Isle of Portland , the new red sandstone of Staffordshire , Cheshire , and Lancashire , the Silurian old red sandstone and coal districts of Shropshire , Herefordshire , Monmouthshire , and South Wales .
In 1830 and 1831 he was present during many of the stirring scenes of the Belgian War of Independence and the last siege of Antwerp : at which time also he made the acquaintance of the lady who soon after became his wife , a daughter of Dr. Stather , a gentleman of a VOL. XXVIII .
position in the Island of Nevis .
This lady , with a son and two daughters , survives him .
In 1833 he was presented to a small vicarage near Poole , where in addition to his clerical duties he discharged the functions of a magistrate .
His ardour in pursuit of travel and geology exposed him to a severe illness which culminated in rheumatic fever , which so crippled him that he was induced in 1839 to try the effects of a warmer climate , and as the investigation of a new country had peculiar charms , he resolved to visit the colony of New South Wales , which in those days included what are now Victoria and Queensland .
He had also a kind of special mission from his brother geologists to investigate the carboniferous formation of Australia .
The ship in which he was making the voyage touched at the Cape of Good Hope , and Mr. Clarke seized the opportunity of making a survey of and report upon the geology about Cape Town .
Prom the time he landed in Australia , in 1859 , to the day of his death , he never ceased pushing forward his researches into the unknown regions which lay before him .
It is no exaggeration to state that he knew every inch of the greater part of New South Wales proper , and from constant investigation of reports by explorers and others he knew the general character and geography , almost topography , of Australasia .
The modest income which is supposed to be the lot of those wh o undertake the duties of a clergyman , - and which in the case of Mr. Clarke , averaged , up to 1861 , less than \#163 ; 200 per annum , inclusive of the grant of \#163 ; 1,000 made in recognition of his services , prevented his issuing well illustrated works .
Most of his publications appeared in a very modest form , either as Parliamentary papers , newspaper letters , or as papers in the various scientific journals .
Latterly , the Government Printing Office offered some relief from the expense of publication , and the last edition of his last work is creditable to that establishment .
The Government always had a high appreciation of his services , and never failed when in difficulties to utilise his knowledge .
Thus in 1851 , when the Government wished to have a proper report upon the mineral resources of the country , no fitter person could be found .
The neighbouring colonies also appealed to Mr. Clarke upon all matters of a geological nature .
His name was in fact a " household word " all over Australasia .
It is proved beyond controversy that he ascertained the auriferous nature of the country in 1841 , ten years before the popular date of 1851 .
The main conclusions at which Mr. Clarke arrived from his geological investigations were , that matrix gold was the thing to be looked for , and that the carboniferous deposits of the main seams in New South Wales were Palaeozoic .
To a geologist of Europe , with libraries of reference in every city , and with rapid means of locomotion and comfortable quarters everywhere , the difficulties of Australian geology are not apparent .
When Mr. Clarice set out on his explorations there was no other means of travel but horses , with pack-horses for provisions , tents , and instruments .
In some parts of the country there were no roads or landmarks of any kind , and the maps of the district were nearly useless , as being only skeleton outlines of boundaries .
He had to carry on his work single-handed , and gradually to form his own library .
Mr. Clarke 's travels extended to Tasmania , Victoria , and Queensland , and he has written various exhaustive reports relating to these countries .
His writings have guided persons to various profitable gold mines , and the successful tin industries of Australia and Tasmania have been commenced from indications furnished by him .
In 1863 the Legislature of Hew South Wales voted Mr. Clarke \#163 ; 3,000 , at a time when his various ailments seemed coming to a head , to enable him to secure a little comfort in his old age ; but since that time his " pen of a ready writer " has never been weary ; and we are almost tempted to say that his latter years have surpassed the former , for his facts seemed to have accumulated more quickly , and his experience being , of course , more matured , enabled him to seize upon the more salient points of the geology of the country .
The fruit of his labours during this part of his life consists of a geological map of the whole colony , which has been compiled from his note-books and memoranda .
Up to 1870 he never ceased from the work of his sacred calling , even when on his explorations ; but on 1st October of that year , his increasing infirmities obliged him to retire from his parochial labours .
He was thus in a position to avail himself of the improved locomotion afforded by the railways to revisit his old haunts , and to visit other places of interest , so .
as to fill up gaps in his former works .
He was an indefatigable observer of meteorological facts and of general natural history .
Mr. Clarke was elected F.G.S. in 1826 .
He was a member of the Geological Society of France , and held a diploma from the Imperial and Royal Geological Institution of* Austria , F.R.G.S. , and one of the early Fellows of the Zoological Society .
Mr. Clarke contributed largely to the periodical literature of England prior to 1839 , and his poetical effusions are by no means undeserving of praise .
In 1876 he was elected F.R.S. , and in 1877 he was awarded the Murchison Medal of the Geological Society of London .
The terms in which the award was made express the results of his geological labours in Australia .
The excessive heat of March , 1878 , combined with the labour of preparing a new edition of " Sedimentary Formations of Hew South Wales , " proved too much for Mr. Clarke 's strength .
He was seized with paralysis on the 16th ot that month j and though he rallied , so VOL. xxviii .
\amp ; that he was able to move about without help , and to arrange and label fossils received from Professor de Koninck on the 15th June , he was seized with a violent pain in the heart on the morning of the 16th , and before medical aid could be procured he was called to his long-earned rest .
It is proposed by the Government to purchase his collection of minerals , fossils , library , and geological maps , and with them to form a nucleus , under the name of the " Clarke Collection , " of a grand Mining Museum .
Adolphe Theodore Brongniart , son of the illustrious Alexandre Brongniart , and grandson of Theodore Brongniart , an eminent architect , was born at Paris on the 14th January , 1801 .
Educated for the medical profession , he soon gave up that career in order to devote himself , under his father 's guidance , to scientific pursuits , and early took a place among the first living botanists .
In his nineteenth year he published his first and only zoological paper , containing the description of Limnadia , a new genus of Crustacea .
In the following year he established the genus Ceratopteris for a curious and anomalous aquatic fern .
In his twenty-first year he published his first palaeontological memoir on the classification and distribution of fossil plants .
He reviewed , in this paper , the various plant-remains then known , and grouped them in 4 classes and 19 genera .
This memoir has been described as the starting point of the intelligent study of fossil plants .
Prom this beginning Brongniart continued his labours and expounded the fragmentary remains of extinct floras , and traced their relation to living plants , and their position in the vegetable kingdom .
He was singularly fitted for this work , for he already had an extensive acquaintance with the structure and classification of living plants , and he had so digested his knowledge that he was able to utilize it in the study of these obscure fossils .
Seldom has a man made a more brilliant debut than Adolphe Brongniart .
The memoir on the classification and distribution of fossil plants , and another , which threw an entirely new light on the subject of the fertilization of living plants , were already finished , if not published , when he was about twenty-four years of age .
The study of the reproduction of organic beings had , up to his time , made so little progress that Brongniart obtained little assistance from previous workers .
Without committing himself to any of the theories which had been suggested in explanation of the processes of fertilization , he confined himself to the observation and arrangement of facts .
" II est certains sujets , " he says , " dont la difficult^ eloigne et rebate les observateurs , tandis que la grandeur de leurs consequences excite au plus haut degre l'imagination des homines disposes a se contenter d'une hypothese .
Quant a moi , j'ai cherche d'abord a les oublier toutes , a reunir des faits bien observes , a deduire de leur com-paraison des conclusions de detail , et a former du rapprochement de celles-ci nne theory propre a les representer .
" Brongniart showed how the embryo is formed , little by little , by a process which he did not hesitate to say is identical over the whole of the vegetable kingdom .
Microscopically small plants , the most majestic trees of our forests , our cultivated plants , all are reproduced by one and the same process .
For some years Brongniart prosecuted his investigations of living plants , and published , between 1824 and 1827 , a new classification of fungi , a memoir on the natural order Bruniaceae , and several histological and physiological memoirs .
The labours and observations of six years in Palaeontology were exhibited in his " Prodrome d un Histoire des Vegetaux Fossiles , " puplished in 1828 , and in his great work , " Histoire des Vegetaux Fossiles , " begun in the same year .
The first volume , consisting of twelve parts , and containing 488 pages of letter-press and 160 quarto plates , was issued within a few months .
The further progress of the work was interrupted by Brongniart s ill health , and it was not resumed for nine years , and then only three additional parts were issued , leaving this great work incomplete .
The " Histoire " includes the whole of the Cryptogams , vascular as well as cellular , with the exception of the Lycopodiaceas , to which the later plates are devoted ; and the letter-press is suddenly stopped before the remarkable introduction to this natural order was completed .
In 1839 he brought out his well-known memoir on SigMaria In 1849 he contributed to the " Dictionnaire Universal d'Histoire Naturelle , " a short and popular review of fossil plants on the plan of his " Prodrome , " exhibiting their botanical affinities and classification and their stratigraphical distribution . . .
It is worthy of notice that , as Brongniart began his scientific career with his labours on fossil plants , so the latter part of his i e was devoted to a further investigation on the same subject .
At the time of his first investigation only few and imperfect specimens had been obtained .
Fifty years later his friends , Messieurs Renault and Grand d'Eury , sent him , from the environs of Autun and St. Etienne , a quantity of specimens of seeds which had been converted into siliceous masses of a texture as fine as that of the most beautiful agates .
From these masses Brongniart separated transparent flakes , and , by the aid of the microscope , made out minute details of their organization cells with excessively thin walls , vessels with delicate membranes , nebulosities which are the first indications of the formation of tissues , organisms in fact , of dimensions so small as can only be detected by high powers of the microscope .
He found , in fruits dating from remote ages , all the particulars of organization which he had formerly observed in living plants .
No one had hitherto imagined it possible VI that we should one day see in the substance of a hard and translucent stone indications of the sap which had , in former ages , circulated in the delicate vessels of a living plant , of the grains of pollen bursting from the anthers , and of the presence of the minute ovules where appearing .
In his memoir on this subject , the last he ever published , Brongniart not only disclosed the evidence of a remarkable and varied gymnospermons vegetation in Carboniferous times , but the structure preserved in these Palaeozoic plants led him to suspect the existence of a curious and hitherto unobserved detail in the organization of the ovule of living Gymnosperms .
After having satisfactorily shown that the beautifully silicified tissues of the plants of St. Etienne belonged to plants of which we find analogous species in Mexico , he confidently asserted that a peculiarity , a cavity for the reception of the pollen , never previously observed in living specimens , would be found in the species of that country , and he subsequently had the satisfaction of exhibiting , to the Academy Fran9aise , some plants living in the hothouses of the Museum which had a pollen cavity of which a plant dead countless ages ago had furnished us with the first example .
Brongniart did not live to complete this important research .
The decline of his health first manifested itself in a failure of sight brought on by excessive use of the microscope , and he owed it to the assistance of his friends and colleagues , Messieurs Bureau , Cornu , Renault , Grand d'Eury , and other friends , that he was able to work on at the investigation as long as he did .
From the time of the siege of Paris his health , affected by the privations and sufferings he then underwent , steadily declined , but he retained to the end of his life his tranquillity of mind , his intellect , and his memory .
He took an affectionate interest in the progress of a grandson , whose first steps in the career of science he hoped to guide .
At length , in February , 1876 , foreseeing that his end was near , he desired to be surrounded by his family , and expired in the arms of his eldest son .
Less fortunate than his father , Adolphe Brongniart had , some years previously , lost the affectionate wife whom he had married in early life .
He left two sons and several grand-children , The herbarium left by A. Brongniart has been placed in the Botanical Gallery ( of Paris ) , and his unique and beautiful collection of fossil plants forms one of its greatest ornaments .
Brongniart was elected a member of the Academy of Sciences in 1884 , in the place of Desfontaines , and in the same year he was appointed Professor of Vegetable Physiology in the Museum of Natural History .
In 1840 he was appointed a foreign member of the Geological Society of London , and in the following year he received the Wollaston Medal , in consideration of his important works on fossil plants .
In 1852 he was elected a foreign member of the Vll Royal Society , and was also appointed Inspector-General for Science-of the University of Paris .
With regard to his scientific character , Brongniart has been characterized as the Linnaeus of fossil botany ; not so much a great discoverer as a great systematizer ; introducing lucid order and general principles , into the study of the materials which had been already collected .
To-those materials , also , he undoubtedly added much by his own observations , and probably ( as in the case of Linnaeus ) his example gave a stimulus to the exertions of his opponents as well as of his followers .
He was eminent , not only for industry , accuracy , and judgment , but also for the clearness and neatness of his scientific writings .
Brongniart 's favourite branch of study is one in which exceedingly rapid progress has been made , since he was at the height of his fame , and in which rapid progress is still making .
The researches of Heer , Unger , Ettingshausen , and others , in the fossil plants of the Tertiaries , have opened to ns almost entirely new departments of Palaeo-botany ; the microscopic studies , which have been followed up with so much zeal and success by some in our own country , have thrown a greater amount of new light on the structure of the Palaeozoic vegetation .
But the name of Adolphe Brongniart deserves to be held in honour as long as the sciences of botany and geology are cultivated ; and , however far the knowledge of these subjects may be carried , such works as his treatise on the structure of must always be valued as models of accurate examination , lucid exposition , and caution in drawing conclusions .
Adolphe Brongniart 's careful investigation and illustration of the veining of recent ferns ( see his " Histoire des Vegetaux Fossiles , " vol. i , p. 148 ) probably suggested some of the more recent methods of arranging that family of plants .
As a teacher he was remarkable for courtesy and kindness , and readiness to help students in that brand ?
, of science to which he had devoted himself .
Elias Magnus Fries was bom at the parsonage of Ferns jo , in Smaland , in the southern part of Sweden , on the 15th August , 1794 .
He appears to have inherited from his father a love of natural history , and his parents carefully fostered and encouraged this taste , in hopes of thereby supplying to him the place of companions and playmates .
At the age of twelve he was already familiar with many of the plants of the neighbourhood .
In one of his rambles , in 1806 , his attention was attracted by the large and peculiar Hydnum , and it was this discovery , he said in after years , which awakened in him a desire to study the Fungi .
The very next day he set to work and learnt the few genera then known from Liljeblad 's Swedish Flora .
In the year 1808 , when Sweden was ravaged by war and disease , it Vlll became necessary to close the school at Wexio , which Fries attended , and he remained for a time at home .
He made use of this period of leisure to describe all the Fungi he could find , and before 1811 he had succeeded in distinguishing three or four hundred species , but not having access to books on the subject , he gave them temporary names .
In 1811 he left the Gymnasium , and went to the University of Lund .
At Lund he continued to give all his spare time to Botany , and had the satisfaction of finding many plants new to him .
He spent much of his time in the library studying botanical works , in which he found the names of many of the species he had described .
While at Lund he was fortunate enough to make the acquaintance of two distinguished naturalists , Retzius and Agardh , who put into his hands the mycological works of Persoon and Albertini , the best then existing .
During the year 1812 he studied Hypodermia ( Ustilaginese , iEcido-mycetes ) .
While earnestly studying for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy he still found some leisure for his favourite pursuit .
He took the degree of Ph. D. in , 1814 , and was also in this year appointed Docens of Botany .
In 1819 he became " Adjunkt " and received the title of Professor in 1834 .
From the time of taking his degree Fries devoted himself to .
the study of the Fungi , and went with this view fora time to Copenhagen .
About the year 1814 he brought out his earliest important work , his " Novitiee Florae Sueciae ; " and his " Observationes Mycologicsa ' ' was published , in the years 1815\#151 ; 1818 , at Copenhagen .
In 1814 he began to write his " Monographia Pyrenomycetum Sueciae , " which work he presented in parts from 1816 to 1819 to the Academy of Sciences , in Stockholm , In the year 1816 , having come to the conclusion that the method of describing and classifying hitherto adopted was by no means satisfactory , Fries began to work out a new system and to make fresh investigations of all the Fungi .
This new system was based upon , a minute examination of their different stages of development , and of the morphological relations of their different parts .
The result of this investigation\#151 ; the " Systema Mycologicum , " in three volumes\#151 ; he published between the years 1821 and 1829 , and a supplement appeared in 1830 .
In 1828 Fries published his " Elenchus Fungorum , " in which he described some of the Fungi , of which great quantities had been sent to him from abroad .
Hitherto .
Fries had been absolutely prevented by want of means from indulging his ardent wish to explore foreign countries in search of specimens , but in the year 1828 he was at length able to visit the northern part of Germany and the Museum at Berlin , and had the opportunity of extending bis knowledge of Lichens , of exotic Fungi , as well as of studying the literature of these plants .
After the publication , in 1829 , of the third volume of his " Systema Mycologicum , " he again subjected the Fungi to a close investigation , comparing them with his own descriptions .
Having thus revised and completed his observations , separated the Discomycetes from the Hymenomycetes , \amp ; c. , he published the results of his observations in big " Flora Scanica " in 1835 .
Fries became Demonstrator in Botany at the University of Lund in 1828 .
In 1834 he was translated to the University of Upsala as Professor of Rural Economy , with which , after the death of Professor Wahlenberg in 1851 , the chair of Botany was united .
He discharged these teaching duties until 1859 , when he retired on a pension .
At Upsala he found new fields for his mycological studies , and published his " Epicrisis Systematis Mycologici sen Synopsis Hymeno-mycetiim " in 1836\#151 ; 1838 .
In .
the year 1844 the Academy of Science in Stockholm resolved to be at the expense of a series of engravings of all the species of Fungi principally belonging to Hymenomycetes that could not be preserved in a natural state , and gave the superintendence and direction of this work to Fries .
This collection , containing now from 1,600 to 1,700 coloured figures , is one of the richest and most extensive in existence .
Eleven parts , with 110 plates , have been published under the title \#171 ; * leones selectee Hymenomycetum nondum delineatorum .
" These admirable figures , to the preparation of which his latter days were devoted , afford great help to the student in one of the most difficult parts of botany .
The last large work of Fries was the " Hymenomycetes Europsei 'sive Epicriseos Systematis Mycologici , editio altera , " published in Upsala , in 1874 .
Fries had also , at an early age , studied the Lichens no less thoroughly than the Fungi , and he essentially reformed the descriptions and systematic arrangement of these plants .
His " Licheno-graphia Europsea reformata , " published in Lund in 1831 , was long regarded as a principal work in fiphenographical literature , and the successively published parts of his " Lichenes exsiccati Sueciae , form a remarkably valuable series .
He also published explanations and critical examinations of some of the more difficult genera among the higher plants , for instance Hi'eracium , Salix , Garex , and several others .
He wrote Floras of the whole of Scandinavia , and of separate parts of it , and in his " Novitiae Florae Suecise , " " Botaniska Notiser , " Ac .
, he gave descriptions of many new plants discovered by himself . .
* Uig Herbarium Normale , collected at great expense , and with incredible industry , contains dried specimens of many of the rarest plants of Scandinavia .
It was issued in fifteen numbers , during a period of over twenty years , the last being dated 1857 , and is considered to be of the greatest value for the study of the plants of northern Europe .
This collection of typical plants is quoted by Fries throughout the first part of his " Summa Vegetabilium Scandinaviee .
" Fries has also written treatises on Agriculture and on Practical Botany , on the Nomenclature of Plants , and on the History of Botany .
In the " Botanical Excursions , " 1852\#151 ; 1864 , he has very successfully popularised his science , and the book has been read with lively interest beyond his own country .
Important , however , as were many of Fries ' labours on Phsenogamic plants and Lichens , his future fame must rest upon his reformation of Fungology .
The brilliant discoveries of later observers seem at first sight to eclipse altogether what was done so many years before , but they are quite in a different line , and doubtless have been assisted by the labours of Fries .
His arrangement of the genus Agaricus alone has been described as a great effort of genius , and every division of his mycological system is full of matter for reflection .
To appreciate his system , full allowance must be made for the state in which he found mycology and the comparative imperfection of microscopes .
Fries was eminent as a systematic botanist , and the Friesian system is still followed by some Swedish writers .
The system was first published in the " Flora Scanica , " 1835 ) , and an outline of it will be found in Lindley 's " .Vegetable Kingdom .
" With regard to the relationship of species , his point of view appears to have been the same as that taken by Linnaeus , " A species is each form brought forth by the Creator in the beginning .
" Fries had remarkable fluency and power of expression both in writing and lecturing , and this faculty no doubt contributed much to* his influence in gathering round him a large number of disciples .
Foreign scientific men seldom visited Upsala during the last forty years of his life without making the acquaintance of the celebrated botanist , whose amiable and engaging manners and kind disposition made him beloved by all who knew him .
Fries continued his scientific labours into the last years of his life .
In his eightieth year he published a new and improved edition of his extensive work " Hymenomycetes Europsei , ' ' and about a week before his death he completed an essay fort ' a foreign periodical .
He died on the evening of the 8th of February , 1878 , to the last actively useful .
In 1851 , Fries had been appointed Director of the Botanical Museum and garden attached to the University of Upsala , and in 1853 became Rector of the University .
He was a member of many learned societies , Swedish and foreign .
In 1835 he was elected a Foreign Member of the Lin nee an Society , and in 1875 , a Foreign Member of the Royal Society .

