282 On the Effect of Pressure on the Spectra of Gases .
[ May 1 , About half a litre of the mixed gases was now passed through the apparatus , submitting them to the action of the electricity .
The contents of the two bulbs were next transferred to two test-tubes ; and after adding excess of potash to each , Kessler 's test was applied .
The first solution gave a faint yellow coloration , the second a rather thick reddish-brown precipitate .
No attempt was made to estimate the quantity of ammonia formed , as it would vary with many of the conditions of the experiment .
Since writing the account of the above experiment , which was made in Dr. Odling 's laboratory at Oxford on March 24 , I have seen in the ' Comptes Eendus ' for April 22,1873 , a note of an experiment by Messrs. Thenard of Paris , in which they observe the formation of traces of ammonia by the action of electricity on a mixture of hydrogen and nitrogen ; but no details of the mode of operating are given .
III .
" On the Effect of Pressure on the Character of the Spectra of Gases .
" By C. H. Stearn and G. H. Lee .
Communicated by W. Huggins , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1873 .
The variations in the spectra of gases which accompany changes of density have been studied by Pliicker and Hittorf , Frankland and Lockyer , Wiillner and others .
It appears to us that one cause to which these changes may be due has been overlooked , and that many of the observed variations are entirely independent of the density of the gas .
If a Leyden jar be placed in the circuit , and the current from an induction-coil be passed through a Pliicker 's tube containing nitrogen with the traces of hydrogen generally present , the following well-known phenomena are observed .
When the gas is near atmospheric pressure , the line-spectrum of nitrogen is brilliant , and the E line of hydrogen is broad and nebulous .
As the pressure is reduced , the lines of nitrogen gradually fade out , and the band-spectrum appears , while at the same time the F line of hydrogen becomes narrow and well defined .
If fresh gas be admitted , the line-spectrum reappears , accompanied by a widening of the F line .
That these changes are not dependent on the density of the gas , appears from the following experiment:\#151 ; A sealed tube containing nitrogen , with traces of hydrogen at a pressure of about 2 millims. , was placed before the spectroscope , second tube was connected with the air-pump , and the current passe through both tubes , a Leyden jar being placed in the circuit . .
1 When the pressure in the second tube was high , the line-spectrum , nitrogen appeared brilliantly in the sealed tube , and the F line was br and nebulous ; as the exhaustion proceeded these lines faded out , an 6 F line became narrow , in precisely the same manner as if the seale tu e had been in process of exhaustion .
The explanation appears to be a 1873 .
] On the Electrical Resistance of Selenium .
283 the production of the line-spectrum of nitrogen , and the expansion of the F line of hydrogen , depend entirely on the intensity of the charge communicated to the Leyden jar .
When the pressure of the gas between the electrodes is high , the discharge does not take place until the jar is fully charged ; but as the exhaustion proceeds a less and less charge is communicated to the jar , and the discharge at last is virtually not more than that of the simple current .
The same effect may be produced by interposing a break in the circuit , the length of which may be increased as the pressure in the tube is reduced .
Pliicker and Hittorf appear to have used a break , as in their paper in the Philosophical Transactions , Nov. 1864 , they speak of the expansion of lines obtained by increasing the charge of the jar by an interposed stratum of air .
They do not , however , appear to have noticed that the reduction of pressure in the tube was only equivalent to a diminution of the charge of the jar , and that to this cause many of the changes of spectra which accompany the reduced pressure ought to be ascribed .
We are continuing our experiments on the effect of temperature on the spectrum , but prefer to reserve this portion of the subject for the present .
May 8 , 1873 .
FRANCIS SIBSON , M.D. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " The Action of Light on the Electrical Resistance of Selenium .
" By Lieut. Sale , R.E. Communicated by J. N. Lockyer , F.R.S. Received March 28 , 1873 .
It having been recently brought to notice that selenium in the crystalline condition exhibits the remarkable property of having a conductivity varying with the degree of light to which it is exposed , the following experiments were undertaken with a view to the further elucidation of the matter:\#151 ; Experiment 1.\#151 ; A bar of crystalline selenium measuring approximately 1*5 " x *5 " x '05 " was procured , and platinum wire terminals were fastened to the ends .
The bar itself was then enclosed in a box having a draw-lid , so as to admit or exclude the light at pleasure .
Then , the lid of the box being on , the resistance of the selenium was measured by means of a high-resistance galvanometer and a Wheatstone 's bridge , with dial-coils capable of measuring up to 10,000,000 ohms .
The battery-power was 2 cells Daniell .
The measurement was made on a dull cloudy day , and in a room of equable temperature .
The resistance having been carefully balanced , the lid of the box was withdrawn , when the resistance of the selenium fell instantaneously and

