303 on some Chloro-brom-iodid of Silver .
highly crystalline body ( I speak of the iodide alone , not of the alloy ) into a transparent , plastic , denser body .
What the precise function of the molecular motion which disappears can be it is difficult to assume , since in this case it not only changes the state of the body , but approximates its molecules .
Of the texture , specific gravity , \lt ; $fc .
of the alloys.\#151 ; It is noticeable that when the percentage of iodide of silver is small , the alloy is brittle while hot , and only slightly more tenacious than its constituents when cold ( No. 1 ) ; as the percentage of iodide increases , the alloy becomes somewhat less brittle while hot , and considerably more tenacious , hard , and compact , than any of its constituents ( Nos. 2 \amp ; 3 ) ; while when the percentage of iodide becomes considerable ( Nos. 4 \amp ; 5 ) , the mass becomes extremely plastic while hot , perhaps more so than the iodide itself , and very brittle when cold .
The specific gravity is in all cases above the mean of that of the constituents ; it may be because the intercrystalline spaces of the iodide are now filled with bromide and chloride .
Thus , while the sp. gr. of Ag Cl is 5-505 , of Ag Br 6*245 , and of Ag I 5*675 , that of the alloys is as follows :\#151 ; No. 1 , 6*152 ; No. 2 , 6*1197 ; No. 3 , 6*503 ; No. 4,5*9717 ; and No. 5 , 5*907 : while the percentage of the bromide , which alone has a higher specific gravity than that of the alloys , in no case exceeds 42 .
In the accompanying curve table ( p. 300 ) the expansion-curves of the iodide and bromide of silver have been added for comparison with those of the alloys ; the curve of chloride of silver has been omitted , because it is [ almost precisely the same as that of the bromide .
I have preferred to call these results " approximate " on account of certain experimental difficulties in the way of very precise determinations , which difficulties I at present see no way of avoiding .
November 16 , 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
Dr. Henry Edward Armstrong and Capt. G-eorge Strong Nares were admitted into the Society .
Prof. W. G. Adams , Mr. Bramwell , Mr. Busk , Dr. Russell , and General VOL. xxv .
z Mr. W. Crookes on the Radiometer .
[ Nov. 16 , Smythe , having been nominated by the President , were elected by ballot Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Experimental Contributions to the Theory of the Radiometer."\#151 ; Preliminary Notice .
By William Crookes , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received November 15 , 1876 .
Instead of bringing another preliminary notice before the Society , I should have preferred reserving the announcement of my new results on the Repulsion resulting from Radiation until they were fit to be offered in a more complete form ; but the radiometer is now so much occupying the attention of scientific men , and results of experiments with this and allied instruments are appearing so frequently in the scientific journals at home and abroad , that were I not to adopt this method of bringing the results of my more recent experiments before men of science , I might find myself anticipated in some or all of the conclusions at which I have arrived .
On June 15th last I mentioned to the Society that the repulsion resulting from radiation increases up to a certain point as I exhaust the air from the torsion-apparatus .
After long-continued exhaustion the force of radiation approaches a maximum , and then begins to fall off .
I have since succeeded in experimenting at still higher exhaustions , and with different gases in the apparatus ; and by means of a McLeod gauge attached to the mercury pump I have been able to measure the atmospheric pressure at any desired stage of exhaustion .
I have not only measured the force of repulsion , but also the viscosity of the residual gas ; and from the results I have plotted the observations in curves which accompany this paper , and which show how the viscosity of the residual gas is related to the force of repulsion exerted by radiation .
These curves must not , however , be considered as representing more than the broad facts , for I have not included in them my final observations , which in all probability will introduce modifications in them .
In plotting these curves I have supposed my scale to be 1000 metres long , and to represent one atmosphere .
Halfway up the scale therefore , or 500 metres , represents half an atmosphere ; 999 metres up the scale represents an exhaustion of Toiruan atmosphere : each millimetre , therefore , stands for the milliouth of an atmosphere .
My results have principally been obtained at the top of the scale ; and it is the last quarter of a metre which supplies the diagrams accompanying this paper .
Mr. W. Crookes on the Radiometer .
1876 .
] When the residual gas is air , the viscosity ( measured by the logarithmic decrement of the arc of oscillation ) is practically constant up to an exhaustion of 250 millionths of an atmosphere , or 0*19 millim. of mercury , having only diminished from 0*126 at the normal pressure of the atmosphere to 0*112 .
It now begins to fall off : at 200 millionths it is 0*110 , at 100 millionths it is 0*096 , at 50 millionths it is 0*078 , at 20 millionths it is 0*052 , at 10 millionths it is 0*035 , and at 0*1 of a millionth of an mmmEsrn m m m m m \#166 ; \#166 ; n \#166 ; \#166 ; \#171 ; \#171 ; \#166 ; i \#166 ; i atmosphere the log .
dec. has fallen to about 0*01 .
Simultaneously with this decrease in the viscosity , the force of repulsion exerted on a black surface by a standard light varies .
It increases very slowly till the exhaustion has risen to about 70 millionths of an atmosphere ; at about 40 millionths the force is at its maximum ; and it then sinks very rapidly , till at 0*1 millionth of an atmosphere it is less than one tenth of its maximum .
On continuing the curves of the log .
dec. and the force of radiation , and assuming that the torsion-fibre of glass has no viscosity , it is most probable that z 2 306 Mr. W. Crookes on the Radiometer .
[ Nov. 16 , they both would come to zero when the last traces of an atmosphere had been talten out of the apparatus .
The oxygen diagram differs from that of air .
The log .
dec. is 0T26 at the atmospheric pressure ; it falls to 0*111 at a pressure of 250 millionths of an atmosphere ; at 100 millionths it is 0*105 , at 50 millionths it is 0*093 , at 20 millionths it is 0*068 , and at 2 millionths it is 0*02 .
The force of repulsion in oxygen increases very steadily up to an exhaustion of about 40 millionths of an atmosphere ; it is at its maximum at about 30 millionths , and thence declines very rapidly .
Hydrogen gives a remarkable diagram .
The viscosity at the normal pressure is measured by a log .
dec. of 0*063 ; at 250 millionths of an atmQsphere it is 0*057 , at 100 millionths it is 0*052 , at 50 millionths it is 0*046 , whence it rapidly sinks .
The force of repulsion increases slowly up to an exhaustion of 250 millionths , then quickly until it attains its maximum at about 50 millionths , and it then rapidly declines .
The force of repulsion is very great in a hydrogen vacuum , being in comparison with the maximum in an air vacuum as 70 to 41 .
Neither is it necessary to get so high an exhaustion with hydrogen as with other gases to obtain considerable repulsion .
This shows that in the construction of radiometers it is advantageous to fill them with hydrogen before exhausting .
Carbonic acid has a viscosity of about *01 at the normal pressure , being between air and hydrogen , but nearer the former .
On approaching a vacuum , the force of repulsion does not rise very high , and soon falls off .
Before working with this apparatus I thought that monohydrated sulphuric acid evolved no vapour , and I therefore freely used it for cleaning out the pump and for drying the gases .
I can even now detect no vapour-tension ; but a comparison of the curves , with and without sulphuric acid , shows that the presence of this body modifies the results .
One of my curves represents the action of the residual sulphuric anhydride gas .
The experience thus gained has led me to adopt phosphoric anhydride for drying the gases .
I can detect no ill effects from the presence of this agent ; and I have been able in consequence to push the rarefaction to higher points than before .
The McLeod gauge will not show the presence of mercury vapour .
It is therefore possible that I have a greater pressure in the apparatus than is here stated .
I have , however , entirely failed to detect the presence of mercury vapour at any great distance from the mercury in the pump ; and the tube packed with gold-leaf , which I frequently interpose between the pump and the apparatus , shows no trace of bleaching , and exerts no appreciable effect one way or the other on the results .
With this pump , assisted sometimes by chemical absorption , it is not Mr. W. Crookes on the Radiometer .
1876 .
] difficult to exhaust a radiometer to such a point that it will not move to a candle placed a few inches off ; but I have not yet succeeded in stopping the movement of the beam in the torsion-apparatus .
A long series of observations have been taken , at different degrees of exhaustion , on the conductivity of the residual gas to the spark from an induction-coil .
Working with air , I find that at a pressure of about 40 millionths of an atmosphere , when the repulsive force is near its maximum , a spark , whose striking distance at the normal pressure is half an inch , will illuminate a tube having aluminium terminals 3 millimetres apart .
When I push the exhaustion further , the g-incli spark ceases to pass ; but a 1-inch spark will still illuminate the tube .
As I get nearer to a vacuum more power is required to drive the spark through the tube ; but at the highest exhaustions I can still get indications of conductivity when an induction-coil actuated with five Grove 's cells , and capable of giving a 6-inch spark , is used .
When so powerful a spark is employed there is great danger of perforating the glass , thus causing a very slight leakage of air into the apparatus .
The log .
dec. now slowly rises , the repulsive force of the candle increases to its maximum , and then slowly diminishes to zero , the log .
dec. continuing to rise till it shows that the internal and external pressures are identical .
With a fine perforation several days are occupied in going through these phases , and they take place with such slowness and regularity as to afford opportunities for getting valuable observations .
The improvements now added by Mr. Gin.ingham to the pump render it so easy to obtain high exhaustions tlqit , in preparing experimental radiometers , I prefer to exhaust direct to one or two millionths of an atmosphere .
By keeping the apparatus during this exhaustion in a hotair bath heated to about 300 ' C. for some hours , the occluded gases are driven off from the interior surface of the glass and the fly of the radiometer .
The whole is then allowed to cool , and attenuated air from the air-trap is put in in small quantities at a time , until the McLeod gauge shows that the best exhaustion for sensitiveness is reached ; if necessary , this point is also ascertained by testing with a candle .
Working in this way , I can now do in a few hours what foimerly required as many days .
In this manner , employing hydrogen instead of air for the gaseous residue , and using roasted mica vanes set at an angle with the axis , as described further on , I can get very considerably increased sensitiveness in radiometers .
I am still unable , however , to get them to move in moonlight .
The statements made by an observer nearly a year ago , that he obtained strong rotation by moonlight , must therefore be considered erroneous .
My most sensitive torsion-balance will , how ever , move easily to moonlight .
The above-mentioned facts , in addition to what has already been pub- 308 Mr. W. Crookes on the Radiometer .
[ Nov. 16 , lished , leave no reasonable doubt that the presence of residual gas* is the cause of the movement of the radiometer .
But few theories are sufficiently strong not to require reinforcement ; and in the present case very much remains to be ascertained as regards the mode of action of the residual gas .
The explanation , as given by Mr. Johnstone Stoney , appears to me the most probable ; and having stood almost every experimental test to which I have submitted it , I may assume for the present that it expresses the truth .
According to this the repulsion is due to the internal movements of the molecules of the residual gas .
When the mean length of path between successive collisions of the molecules is small compared with the dimensions of the vessel , the molecules rebounding from the heated surface , and therefore moving with an extra velocity , help to keep back the more slowly moving molecules which are advancing towards the heated surface ; it thus happens that though the individual kicks against the heated surface are increased in strength in consequence of the heating , yet the number of molecules struck is diminished in the same proportion , so that there is equilibrium on the two sides of the disk , even though the temperatures of the faces are unequal .
But when the exhaustion is carried to so high a point that the molecules are sufficiently few and the mean length of path between their successive collisions is comparable with the dimensions of the vessel , the swiftly moving , rebounding molecules spend their force , in part or in whole , on the sides of the vessel , and the onward crowding , more slowly moving molecules are not kept back as before , so that the number which strike the warmer face approaches to , and in the limit equals , the number which strike the back , cooler face ; and as the individual impacts are stronger on the warmer than on the cooler face , pressure is produced , causing the warmer face to retreat .
I have tried many experiments with the view of putting this theory to a decisive test .
The repulsive force being due to a reaction between the fly and the glass case of a radiometer , it follows that , other things being equal , the fly should revolve faster in a small bulb than in a large one .
This cannot well be tested with two different radiometers , as the weight of the fly and the amount of friction would not be the same in each ; but I have constructed a double radiometer which shows this fact in a very satisfactory manner .
It consists of two bulbs , one large and the other small , blown together so as to have a wide passage between them .
In the centre of each bulb is a cup , held in its place by a glass rod , and in * It is a question whether the residual gas in the apparatus , when so highly attenuated as to have lost the greater part of its viscosity , and to be capable of acquiring molecular movement palpable enough to overcome the inertia of a plate of metal , should not be considered to have got beyond the gaseous state , and to have assumed a fourth state of matter , in which its properties are as far removed from those of a gas as this is from a liquid .
1876 .
] Mr. W. Crookes on the Radiometer.- 309 the bulbs is a small four-armed fly with roasted mica disks blacked on one side .
The fly can be balanced on either cup .
In the smaller bulb there is about a quarter of an inch between the yanes and the glass , whilst in the larger cup there is a space of half an inch .
The mean of several experiments shows that in the small bulb the fly rotates about 50 per cent , faster than in the large bulb , when exposed to the same source of light .
One of the arms of another radiometer was furnished with roasted mica disks blacked on alternate sides .
The other arm was furnished with clear mica disks .
The two arms were pivoted independently of each other , and one of them was furnished with a minute fragment of iron , so that by means of a magnet I could bring the arms in contact , the black surface of the mica then having a clear plate of mica in front of it .
On bringing a lighted candle near the instrument , and allowing it to shine through the clear plate on the blackened mica , the clear plate is at once driven away till the arm sets at right angles to the other .
Two currents of force , acting in opposite directions , can exist in the same bulb .
I have prepared a double radiometer in which two flies are pivoted one over the other , and having their blackened sides turned in opposite directions .
On bringing a lighted candle near , the flies rapidly rotate in opposite directions .
Experiment shows that the force can be reflected from a plane surface in such a manner as to change its direction .
If an ordinary radiometer is exposed to light the black surface is repelled , owing to the excess of pressure acting between it and the glass .
If , however , a plate of mica were to arrest this force and reflect it back again , the motion should be reversed .
Experiment shows that this is the case .
A two-disk radiometer was made , having flat opaque mica disks blacked on one side .
In front of the black surface of the mica , about a millimetre off , is fixed a large disk of thin clear mica .
On bringing a candle near , the molecular pressure streaming from the black surface is caught by the clear plate and thrown back again , causing pressure behind instead of in front ; and the result is rapid rotation in the negative direction , the black side now moving towards the light .
To still further test this view of the action , I made another radiometer , similar to the above , but having a clear mica disk on each side of the ordinary mica vane .
This prevents the reflection of the pressure backwards , and causes it to expend itself in a vertical plane , the result being an almost total loss of sensitiveness .
The above actions can be explained on the " evaporation and condensation ' ' theory , as well as by that of molecular movement ; and I therefore devised the following test to decide between these two theories .
A radiometer has its four disks cut out of very clear and thin plates of mica , and these are mounted in a somewhat large bulb .
At the 310 Mr. W. Crookes on the Radiometer .
[ Nov. 16 , side of the bulb , in a vertical plane , a plate of mica , blacked on one side , is fastened in such a position that each clear vane in rotating shall pass it , leaving a space between of about a millimetre .
If a candle is brought near , and by means of a shade the light is allowed to fall only on the clear vanes , no motion is produced ; but if the light shines on the black plate , the fly instantly rotates as if a wind were issuing from this surface , and keeps on moving as long as the light is near .
This could not happen on the evaporation and condensation theory , as this requires that the light should shine intermittently on the black surface in order to keep up continuous movement .
By cutting a thin plate of aluminium into the form of a spiral , then drawing it out corkscrew fashion , blacking the upper surface and suspending it on a point , a spiral radiometer is made , which rotates like a screw on exposure to light .
Here also the black surface need never be in darkness , the pressure acting continuously between the black side of the spiral and the cylindrical tube in which it is mounted .
The expei iinents with the double radiometer of different sizes showed that the nearer the absorbing surface was to the glass , the greater was the pressure produced .
To test this point in a more accurate manner , a torsion-balance was fitted up with a glass suspending fibre and reflecting mirror , as described in my previous papers .
At one end of the beam is a disk of roasted mica blacked on one side .
In front of this black surface , and parallel to it , is a plate of clear mica , so arranged that its distance from the black surface can be altered as desired , at any degree of exhaustion , without interfering with the vacuum .
This apparatus is very sensitive and gives good quantitative results .
It has proved that when light falls on the black surface molecular pressure is set up , whatever be the degree of exhaustion .
At the atmospheric pressure this disturbance can only be detected when the mica screen is brought close to the black surface , and it is inappreciable when the screen is moved away .
As the barometer-gauge rises , the thickness of the layer of disturbance increases .
Thus , retaining the standard candle always the same distance off , when the gauge is at 660 millims. , the molecular pressure is represented by 1 when the space separating the screen from the black surface is 3 millims. , by 3 when the intervening space is reduced to 2 millims. , and by 5 when the space is 1 millim. With the gauge 722 millims. high , the values of the molecular pressure for the spaces of 3 , 2 , and 1 millim. are respectively 3 , 7 , and 12 .
When the gauge is at 740 millims. , the corresponding values for spaces of 3 , 2 , and 1 millim. are 11 , 16 , and 23 .
With the gauge at 745 millims. , the molecular pressures are represented by 30 , 34 , and 40 , for spaces 3 , 2 , and 1 millim. When the gauge and barometer are level , the action is so strong that the candle has to be moved double the distance off , and the pressures when the intervening spaces are 12 , 6 , and 3 millims. are respectively 60 , 86 , Mr. W. Crookes on the Radiometer .
1876 .
] and 107 .
A large series of observations have been taken with this apparatus , with the result not only of supplying important data for future consideration , but of clearing up many anomalies which were noticed , and of correcting many errors into wThich I was led at earlier stages of this research .
Among the latter may be mentioned the speculations in which I indulged as to the pressure of sunlight on the earth .
Hitherto most of my experiments had been carried on with bad conductors of heat .
To get the maximum action of a radiometer it appeared necessary that no heat should pass through to the back surface , but that all should be kept as much as possible on the surface on which the light fell * .
At first I used pith , but since learning the advantage of raising the whole apparatus to a high temperature during exhaustion , I have used roasted mica lampblacked on one side for the vanes ; for this purpose it is almost perfect , being a good absorber on one face , a good reflector on the other , a bad conductor for heat , extremely light , and able to stand high temperatures .
Many experiments have been tried with metal radiometers , some of the results being recorded in previous papers which I have read before the Society ; but being less sensitive than pith or mica instruments , I had not hitherto worked much with them .
I now tried similar experiments to the above , using the best conductors of heat instead of the worst ; and for this purpose thick gold-leaf was selected for the surface on which to try the action of radiation .
An apparatus was constructed resembling a radiometer with an opening at the top , capable of being closed with a plate of glass .
Through this I could introduce disks of any substance I liked , mounted in pairs on an aluminium arm rotating on a needle-point .
The first disks were of gold-leaf , blacked on alternate sides .
After exhaustion , a candle repelled the black surface of one of the disks , but , to my surprise , it strongly attracted the black surface of the other disk .
I noticed that the disk which moved the negative way was somewhat crumpled , and had the outer edge curved so as to present a slightly concave black surface to the candle .
I soon found that the curvature of the disk was the cause of the anomaly observed , and experiments were then tried with disks of gold and aluminium\#151 ; the latter being chiefly used as being lighter and stiffer , whilst it acted in other respects as gold .
A radiometer the fly of which is made of perfectly flat aluminium plates , lampblacked on one side , is much less sensitive to light than one of mica or pith , but , as I proved in my earlier papers , it is more sensitive to dark heat .
Exposed to light , the black face of a metal radiometer moves away as if it were black pith .
When , however , it is exposed to dark * I have already shown that when a ray of light from any part of the spectrum falls on a black surface the ray is absorbed and degraded in refrangibility , warming the black surface and being emitted as radiant heat .
In this sense only can the repulsion resulting from radiation be called an effect of heat .
Mr. W. Crookes on the Radiometer .
[ Nov. 16 , heat , either by grasping the bulb with the warm hand , dipping it into hot water , or covering it with a hot glass shade , it rapidly rotates in a negative direction , the black advancing , and continuing to do so until the temperature has become uniform throughout .
On now removing the source of heat , the fly commences to revolve with rapidity the positive way , the black this time retreating as it would if light shone on it .
Pith or mica radiometers act differently to this , dark heat causing them to revolve in the same direction as light does .
The outer corners of the aluminium plates , which were mounted diamond-wise , were now turned up at an angle of 45 ' , the lampblacked surface being concave and the bright convex .
On being exposed to a candle , scarcely any movement was produced ; when one vane was shaded off the other was repelled slightly , but the turned-up corner seemed to have almost entirely neutralized the action of the black surface .
A greater amount of the same corner was now turned up , the fold going through the centres of adjacent sides .
Decided rotation was now produced by a candle , but the black surface was attracted * instead of repelled .
Dark heat still caused the opposite rotation to light , repelling the black surface .
The plates were now folded across the vertical diagonal , the black surface being still inside and the bright metal outside .
The actions with a candle and hot glass shade were similar to the last , but more decided .
The plates were now flattened , and put on the arms at an angle , still being in the vertical plane .
When the bright surface was outside , scarcely any action was produced by a candle ; but when the lampblacked surface was outside , strong repulsion of the black was produced , both with a candle and with a hot shade .
The square aluminium plates were mounted in the experimental apparatus , one being attached to the arm by the centre of one of the sides , and the other by an angle .
The opposite corner of the one mounted diamond-wise was turned up at an angle .
The outer convex surface of the diamond plate was blacked , and the side of the square plate facing the same way was also blacked , so that either two black or two bright surfaces were always exposed to the light , instead of a black and a white surface , as is usual in radiometers .
As might have been expected , both these black surfaces were repelled ; but the turned-up corner of the diamond-mounted plate proved so powerful an auxiliary to its black surface , that strong rotation was kept up , the square plate being dragged round against the action of light .
I olding the plates with the angle horizontal has not so decided an action as when the fold is vertical .
Sloping the plates and disks of a lampblacked mica radiometer so as to * I use the word attraction in these cases for convenience of expression .
I have no doubt that what looks like attraction in these and other cases is really due to vis a tergo .
18/ 6 .
] Mr. W. Crookes on the Radiometer .
313 have the black outside , and consequently more facing the side of the bulb , greatly increases its sensitiveness .
The above experiments show that shape has even a stronger influence than colour .
A convex bright surface is strongly repelled , whilst a concave black surface is not only not repelled by radiation but is actually attracted .
I have also tried carefully shaped cups of gold , aluminium , and other metals , as well as cones of the same materials .
I will briefly describe the behaviour of a few typical radiometers made with metal cups , which I have the honour of exhibiting to the Society .
No. 1035 .
A two-disk , cup-shaped radiometer , facing opposite ways ; both sides bright .
The disks are 14-5 millims. diameter , and their radius of curvature is 14 millims. Exposed to a standard candle 3'5 inches off , the fly rotates continuously at the rate of one revolution in 3-37 seconds .
A screen placed in front of the concave side so as to let the .
light shine only on the convex surface , repels the latter , causing continuous rotation at the rate of one revolution in 7*5 seconds .
When the convex side is screened off so as to let the light shine only on the concave side , continuous rotation is produced at the rate of one revolution in 6-95 seconds , the concave side being attracted .
These experiments show that the repulsive action of radiation on the convex side is about equal to the attractive action of radiation on the concave side , and that the double speed with which the fly moves when no screen is interposed is the sum of the attractive and repulsive actions .
No. 1037 .
A two-disk , cup-shaped aluminium radiometer , as above , lampblacked on the concave surfaces .
In this instrument the action of light is reversed , rotation taking place , the bright convex side being repelled , and the black concave attracted .
That this attraction is not apparent only , is proved by shading off the sides one after the other .
When the light shines only on the bright convex side no movement is produced , but when it shines on the black concave side , this is attracted , producing rotation .
No. 1038 .
A cup-shaped radiometer similar to the above , but having the convex surfaces black and the concave bright .
Light shining on this instrument causes it to rotate rapidly , the convex black being repelled .
No movement is produced on letting the light shine on the bright concave surface , but good rotation is produced when only the black convex surface is illuminated .
No. 1039 .
A cup-shaped radiometer like the above , but blacked on both sides .
With this a candle causes rapid rotation , the convex side being repelled .
On shading off the light from the concave side the rotation continues , but much more slowly ; on shading off the convex side the concave is strongly attracted , causing rotation .
Rev. S. J. Perry on Magnetic [ Nov. 16 , When either of these four radiometers is heated by a hot shade or plunged into hot water , rotation is always produced in the opposite direction to that caused by the light .
On removing the source of heat the motion rapidly stops , and then commences in the opposite direction ( .e .
as it would rotate under the influence of light ) , the rotation continuing as long as the fly is cooling .
Chilling one of these radiometers with ether has the opposite action to exposing it to dark heat .
The vanes of radiometers have also been formed of metal cones , and of cups and cones of plain mica , roasted mica , pith , paper , \amp ; c. ; and they have been used either plain or blacked on one or both surfaces .
These have also been balanced against each other , and against metal plates , cups , and cones .
The results are of considerable interest , but too complicated to explain without great expenditure of time and numerous diagrams .
The broad facts are contained in the above selections from my experiments .
The action of light on the cup-shaped vanes of a radiometer probably requires more experimental investigation before it can be properly understood .
Some of the phenomena may be explained on the assumption that the molecular pressure acts chiefly in a direction normal to the surface of the vanes .
A convex surface would therefore cause greater pressure to be exerted between itself and the bounding surface of glass than wrould a concave surface .
In this wTay the behaviour of the cup-shaped radiometer with both surfaces bright , No. 1035 , can be understood , and perhaps also that of Nos. 1038 and 1039 .
It would not be difficult to test this view experimentally , by placing a small mica screen in the focus of a concave cup where the molecular force should be concentrated .
But it is not easy to see how such an hypothesis can explain the behaviour of No. 1037 , where the action of the bright convex surface more than overcomes the superior absorptive and radiating powder of the concave black surface ; and the explanation entirely fails to account for the powerful attraction which a lighted candle is seen to exert on the concave surfaces in Nos. 1035 , 1037 , and 1039 .
II .
" Magnetic Observations made at Stony hurst College Observatory from April 1870 to March 1876 .
" By the Rev. S. J. Perry , S.J. , F.R.S. Received July 31 , 1876 .
A double series of magnetic observations are being carried on continuously at this Observatory .
The monthly determinations of the absolute elements date from the year 1863 , but the uninterrupted photographic record of the variations of the Declination and of the components of the Intensity w as only commenced in 1867 .
The photographic curves of the Declination and Horizontal Force have all been measured , and are in course of reduction ; and the Vertical-Force curves will soon be taken in hand .
The results of the first seven years ' observations of the Dip and Horizontal Force appeared in the Ihilosophical Transactions for 1871 , and the

