]\gt ; Mr. A. Mallock .
Resume .
To sum up the chief points of the second paper:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The rate of evolution or absorption of heat by quenched steel is , after a short initial period , approximately in inverse ratio to the time elapsed after quenching .
( 2 ) The actual rate of evolution has been determined for various specimens .
The rate of contraction of steel was found to follow the same law as the rate of evolution or absorption of heat .
( 4 ) This suggests that the contraction is intimately connected with the heat evolution , both being due to the same cause .
Sounds Produced by Drops Falling on By A. MALLOCK , F.R.S. Rcceived June 14 , 1218 , ) [ PLATE 1 .
] I had long been interested in the various musical sounds which falling drops produce when they strike the surface of water , and in 1915 I made some experiments on the subject which are perhaps worth recording .
The sounds , of course , last for a very short time , and to hear them well other noises should be absent .
Drops after a shower falling from leaves overhanging a sheltered pond , or the from a tap in a cistern , are some of the commonest examples in which the musical character of the sound can be well distinguished .
On listening attentively it will be noticed that pitch of the note is high at first , then falls and afterwards again rises.2 The duration of the sound is so short that it is difficult to estimate the actual pitch , but the lowest part of the sound was the most characteristic .
It seemed probable that the pitch would be dependent on the resonance of the cavity formed by the impact of the falling drop , and the experiments here described were made with the object of determining the nitude and shape of the cavity in question .
It was found by trial that the same class of sounds were produced whether the falling body was a liquid drop or a solid sphere .
The experiments , therefore , were made with solid spheres , as there is less complexity in the Sounds Produced by Drops on displacements caused by them than when the deformation of the fluid drop itself enters into the problem .
The deep sound produced by a smooth roumd stone , when it enters the water , is known to everyone , and if a rifle is fired downwards into water and the is favourable , an air cavity many feet long can be seen for an instant in the wake of the shot .
The noise caused by impact in this case is drowned by the explosion , but I have had occasion to listen to the sound of shots falling in water when the rifle which fired them was so distant that its faint report reached me at a considerable interval from the sound of the impact .
The sound caused by impact was rather unexpected in quality , and I can only compare it with the noise made by droppiug one wooden plank on another .
There is no difficulty in mining theoretically the general character of the shape of the cavity which a falling sphere must make when it penetrates a fluid ( though the complete determination of the motion , which involves a knowledge of the flow of the fluid over the advancing face of the sphere , with discontinuous behind , cannot be given ) .
Lt a sphere of density pass normally , with velocity , into a fluid of unit density .
Until the fluid closes over it , it experiences ( 1 ) a resistance proportional to the of the velocity ; ( 2 ) an upward acceleration proportional to the depth : and ( 3 ) an acceleration ( C ) , which may be upwards or vnwards a as is less or greater than unity .
For this limited part of its path , which is all that need now be taken into consideration , , the axis of X being vertical .
The retardation may be put more simply as follows:\mdash ; As long as there is continuous air passage from the surface to the shot the latter is in the same condition as it would be if mounted at the end of a massless tube of its own diameter , and during its descent , therefore , is subject to a retardation , where is bhe depth at which the tube , as weighted by the shot , would float , and the distance of the shot from a new origin at , together with a retardation , where is the velocity at and the velocity at which the resistance is equal to the weight of the shot .
Thus the motion , as long as the cavity remains open , is part of a simple harmonic oscillation of period ( and amplitude when , but subject to an extinctive force From the equatl , the path can easily be computed step by step .
The curves in fig. 1 have been thus computed for one of the shot used in the experiments , viz. , a leaden shot , inch in diameter .
The other data as to density , initial velocity , and are given in the description of the diagram .
To determine the shape assumed by the cavity , it is to be observed that Mr. A. Mallock .
in reaching the position defined by , the motion of the shot causes an outward flow , whose radial component must be some function of , while at the same time the hydraulic pressure gives the surface the inward velocity due to the head .
If and are the co-ordinates of a point on the surface of the cavity at the time being the normal distance from the surface of the cylinder Scale reading ocity FIG. 1 .
FIG. 2 .
FIG. l.\mdash ; Curves showing the velocity ( feet per sec. ) and penetration below the surface of a lead shot in terms of time .
The values of the constants Radius of shot .
; .
: .
: velocity just below the surface FIG. 2.\mdash ; The shaded curve shows the shape of the air cavity formed by the lead shot as computed from equation ( 2 ) .
The curves AA and BB are respectively the values of multiplied by and traced by circumference of the shot , and , the time at which the shot has reached then , if is the time at which the shot passed the point Sounds Produced by Drops Falling on Water : It would seem natural to assume that was simply some constant fraction of , say , and that therCfore ( 2 ) The actual form of boundary given by this equation is shown in fig. 2 , and may be compared with the experimental result seen in , where the conditions were nearly the same as assumed in the computation .
FI 3.\mdash ; Diagrammatic view of the apparatus used in the experiment : , glass tank ; , photographic plate ; , principal spark-gap ; , Leyden jars ; , subsidiary gap and contact maker : , forceps for holding and releasing the experimental and contact-making shot .
The distances of and and also of above and below the water level in the tank are adjustable .
The distance between the walls of the tank is 3 inches .
In analysing the photographs regard was had to the aberration of a plate of this thickness .
The experiments were made by taking instantaneous shadow of the shot .
Two shot were simultaneously dropped from the same height ; one of these fell into a tank with parallel glass sides containing water , the other on a contact-maker , which completed the Leyden jar circuit * The assumption that being constant for a given value of , is equivalent to representing the surface of discontinuous flow past a sphere ( before referred to ) as a cone and then choosing so as to best suit the particular case considered .
Tlus is a very rough approximation , and an almost unlimited number of functions may be invented which would give a closer agreement with experiment .
These functions , however , are not dynamical solutions of the problem , and I do not therefore introduce any of them , though I have tried many .
Mr. A. Mallock .
used the production of the spark .
The height of the contact-maker was adjusted so that the spark passed when the shot had penetrated the water to the desired depth .
A diagrammatic view of the arrangements is given in fig. 3 .
Many photographs were taken in this way , of which a few are reproduced in figs. 4 and 5 , Plate 1 .
The type of curve bounding the cavity agrees in general character with that shown in fig. 2 except close to the water surface ( where the assumed conditions as to radial velocity could not be expected to hold ) and again close to the shot itself .
Here ths water does not closein as fast as the expression would make it .
There can , I think , be no doubt as to the velocity , and the experiments when analysed indicate that must be a function of as well as of The features of the surface disturbance are curious and evidently not constant .
The adhesion of the water to the surface of the shot may probably be greatly influenced by the presence of traces of grease , etc. , and this might account , in part at any rate , for the want of uniformity .
The same features appear in Prof. Worthington 's photograph of the surface disturbance .
* Prof. hington seems to have been unaware of the existence of an air cavity below the surface .
The note which a cavity of continually varying volume give when acting as a resonator would have its gravest pitch just before the sides coalesce .
The predominant pitch would be of the same order as , but lower than , that of an open pipe of the length of the cavity , that is the predominant wave-length would be more than four times the depth of the cavity .
The larger of the two sizes of shot used in the experiments , when striking the surface with a velocity of 16 feet per second , sometimes left an open cavity more than 4 inches deep ; this would make the predominant wavelength about feet , but only a few ( 3 or 4 ) vibrations of this length would have time to be formed , so that , incidentally , the present expel ments show what a small number of vibrations can give rise to the sensation of pitch .
The motion of the shot through the water is unstable , that is the axis of the cavity is not a straight line .
This instability is apparent in all the photographs whele the penetration is many diameters of the shot , and still more so , as may be seen from the position of the remaining bubbles of air , when the water has closed in behind and the air cavity has ceased to exist .
One other curious feature shown in the photographs may be mentioned , of which at present I can give no certain explanation .
Fig. 6 is an enlargement of a submerged shot .
A few air bubbles appear in the wake , and in the water on either side , evidently where the stream * See ' Phil. Trans 1897 .
Sounds Produced by Drops Falling on leaves the surface of the two dark lines appear , and follow the division between the wake and stream for some distance .
These lines are present in FIG. 6.\mdash ; Enlargement of a submerged shot .
all the photographs , even when the velocity was only 1 foot per second .
What is their origin ?
They indicate a local in the refractive index of the fluid .
Is this due to a temperature effect , to ative pressure due to small eddies , or to shear ?
The latter explanation seems the most probable .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 1 .
FIG. 4.\mdash ; Photographs of the air formed by the descent of a lead shot , inch diameter .
Velocity just before impact , 10 FIG. 5.\mdash ; Photographs of cavities formed by a bronze ball , diameter inches .
Velocity just before impact , for , for

