A Synoptic Scale of Chemical Equivalents .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read November 4 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 1 .
] The design of the scale here proposed by the author is to save chemists the labour of many troublesome computations in estimating the ingredients of neutral salts , and the reagents and precipitates by which these ingredients might be ascertained .
For though certain laws to which chemical union is subjected have of late been discovered , and have enabled chemists to determine with greater precision than formerly the composition of bodies submitted to be examined , and to express numerically the relation of the several elementary chemical substances to each other ; nevertheless the computations requisite for applying these results to many objects of inquiry are frequently attended with considerable trouble .
The author briefly sketches the history of proportional chemistry , beginning with Bergman , who , perceiving that the same acid united to the same base , always in the same proportion , took pains to ascertain the composition of various salts .
Kirwan followed the same line of endeavour to a greater extent , with a view to determine the proportions of various acids to different bases , as questions independent of each other .
To these succeeded Richter , who gave connection to the subject by observing a new relation that had escaped the notice of Bergman , Kirwain , or any of his predecessors .
They had observed only the constancy of the proportion of the same acid to the same base ; Richter observed , further , a fixed relation of acid to acid : namely , that when the proportional quantities of any two acids , that are each sufficient to saturate a given quantity of any one base is determined , the same proportional weights of these acids will also saturate equal quantities of any other base ; and consequently that if any quantity of sulphuric acid be assumed as standard , then equivalent quantities of all other acids may be conveniently expressed by fixed numbers , adapted to each ; and the several quantities of different alkalies and earths that would each saturate the standard quantity , might : also be represented constantly by corresponding numbers .
The observation of other proportions , which are simple multiples of the preceding , by Mr. Dalton and others , are noticed as affording an important correction of the best analyses ; but it is observed that the theory of atoms by which these facts are explained is by no means of importance to the present inquiry .
It is by means of a series of numbers computed according to the method of Richter , that this scale is constructed so as to answer at one view the very numerous questions that occur to an analytic chemist in the examination of any saline compound .
It is similar in principle to the common sliding rule , and like that instrument has the usual Gunter 's line of numbers on the slider ; but upon a line adjacent to the slider are marked certain points corresponding to those numbers which represent the various chemical elements , acids , alkalies , and other compounds intended to be included in the present view .
By motion of the slider any one point of the line of numbers , as 100 , may be made to correspond with the point indicating any compound , as sulphate of potash .
By the position of the point for sulphuric acid , this salt is seen to contain 46 of acid , and the other ingredient potash at the same time corresponds with 54 on the slider .
By the position of the point for sulphate of barytes , it appears that 135 of this precipitate would be obtained from 100 of the salt , and in the same manner that it would yield 176 of sulphate of lead , with a great variety of similar answers respecting the equivalent quantities of other compounds in which the same quantities of acid or neutralizing base is contained .
Since the line of numbers is so divided that a given space of every part of it corresponds to numbers that bear a given ratio to each other , and since the intervals on the adjacent column of equivalents are all laid down according to certain given portions of the same scale , they directly indicate by juxtaposition numbers that are in the same proportion on any part of the scale that may be presented to them , as will be very evident to those who are acquainted with the common properties of other sliding rules .
For the sake of those who may not be accustomed to the use of the sliding rule , and for the purpose of recommending that valuable instrument to more general use , the author enters rather more than might otherwise be requisite into the elementary principles of logometric division .

