258 On Electricity produced by different Metals .
[ " June 15 , XXYI .
" On Volta 's Experiment of the Electricity produced by the contact and separation of different Metals .
" By Warren De La Rue , M.A. , D.C.L. , E.R.S. , and Hugo W. Muller , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received June ,1876 .
A short time since Prof. Tyndall asked one of us to lend him our Thomson-Becker quadrant electrometer for a lecture illustration of the electricity developed by metallic contact ; as the bifilar electrometer in question had been purposely rendered much less sensitive than usual by the wide separation of the suspension-threads , it was thought advisable to test the instrument before sending it .
This was done with a disk of copper and a plate of zinc , each fastened to a stick of sealing-wax ; the action even with this rough appliance was so great that it seemed desirable to pursue the experiment further .
With this object we had constructed a simple piece of mechanism by Messrs. Elliott Brothers , which enables us to bring together and to separate two disks , one of copper and the other of zinc , each 6 inches in diameter , 400 times in a minute , and after each separation to make the zinc plate touch a spring attached to an insulated conductor ; moreover , by means of cams , to make earth-connexion with either disk , or with both , previous to their being brought again into contact .
20 cells of a rod of chloricle-of-silver battery charged up on May 27 ( part of the 8040 cells now in work ) and in perfect action were connected with the quadrant electrometer , so that the silver pole was in metallic contact with the quadrants to be charged , while the zinc pole and the other two quadrants were connected to earth .
The deflection ( say to the left ) , three times repeated , was each time 95 divisions of the scale .
When the contact-apparatus was now substituted for the battery , and the insulated conductor of the zinc disk was connected with the same quadrant of the electrometer with which the silver pole of the battery had been connected , and the apparatus worked steadily so as to make 320 makes and breaks of contact in a minute , then to make earth-connexion with the copper disk after each separation of the plates and during the time that the zinc was in metallic connexion with the electrometer , the deviation was to the left as before , and amounted to 150 divisions of the scale .
Mean ... .
146-7 1876 .
] On the Mycelium of Smallpox of Sheep .
so that the tension of the electricity as compared with a chloride-of-silver cell is as 146-7 x 20 30-88 to 1 .
The copper disk , after its separation from the zinc , acts as a condenser to the latter ; and as soon as the copper disk is connected automatically with earth the bound electricity of the zinc is set free , and the needle of the electrometer makes a sudden jump .
To observe this effect it is necessary to woi*k the apparatus slowly .
When earth-connexion was made with the copper disk , and also subsequently with the zinc disk after the charge had been given off from it , and before a new contact , no sensible difference was observed in the deflection of the electrometer .
With an ordinary Elliott tangent-galvanometer , and indeed with one twice as sensitive as those generally made , not the slightest deflection of the needle was manifested ; with , however , a Thomson galvanometer a deviation of the needle was obtained of 35 divisions in one direction and 35 divisions in the other , according as the zinc conductor was connected with one or other end of the galvanometer and the other end with earth .
The current , though feeble , is quite manifest nevertheless .
To form a rough notion of the electromotive force , a piece of copper wire 0-5 inch long and 0*03 inch diameter was connected with one end of the galvanometer , and a piece of zinc 0-25 inch diameter and 0-5 inch long with the other , and the one held between the right-hand finger and thumb , and the other between the left-hand finger and thumb , using shunt in the galvanometer or only y^-y part of the current ; this produced a deviation in the scale of 50 divisions with dry fingers , and 150 divisions when the fingers and thumbs were moistened ; so that the quantity of electricity developed by the contact of dissimilar metals is consequently extremely small when the area ( 28-27 inches ) of each disk is taken into account .
XXVII .
" Note on the Mycelium described in my Paper on Smallpox of Sheep .
" By Dr. E. Klein , E.R.S. Received June 7 , 1876 .
In the above paper , which was printed in the Philosophical Transactions ( vol. 165 .
pt .
1 ) , I described and figured , in Section iv .
part c , the presence , in the lymphatics of the skin of the pock , of what I regarded to be the mycelium of a fungus which I termed Oidium variolce ( see figs. 9 , 10 , and 11 of that paper ) .
Similar features were described and figured in the cavities of the primary and secondary pustules .
My attention has been drawn by Dr. Charles Creighton to appearances , in many respects similar to those described by myself , which he found in

