The Pectoral Group of Muscles , December 6 , 1888 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.O.L. , President , followed by Dr. W. POLE , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents\#151 ; The Treasurer , Sir James Paget , Dr. Pole , Sir Henry Roscoe .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Description of the Skull of an extinct Carnivorous Marsupial of the size of a Leopard { Thylacopardus australis , Ow .
) , from a recently opened Cave near the 'Wellington Cave ' locality , New South Wales .
" By Sir Richard Owen , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received October 12 , 1888 .
[ Publication deferred .
] II .
" The Pectoral Group of Muscles .
" By Bertram C. A. Windle , M.A. , M.D. ( Dub .
) , Professor of Anatomy in the Queen 's College , Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor A. Macalister , F.R.S. Received October 25 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is an attempt to explain the morphology of the pectoral group of muscles , and is based on the dissection of over fifty mammals , and on descriptions of others in various journals , \amp ; c. The following are the chief conclusions :\#151 ; 1 .
That portion of the lateral sheet of muscle , pushed outwards in the form of a cone by the growth of the anterior limb-bud , which belongs to the ventral region , may be divided by radial lines of fission into three segments , viz. , an anterior or manubrial , a mesial or gladi-olar , and a posterior or abdominal .
VOL. XLV .
H 100 The Pectoral Group of Muscles .
[ Dec. 6 , \lt ; 2 .
That the radial division is of primary importance is shown by \ the fact that each of these segments has its own nerve , viz. , the anterior , a nerve corresponding to external anterior thoracic of human 1 anatomy ; the middle , internal anterior thoracic ; the posterior , lateral thoracic .
The first is definite in its origin and distribution , and the third in its origin , the second is less regular , and in correspondence with this is a certain indefiniteness of the line of division between the second and third segments .
3 .
The anterior segment may be subdivided into clavicular or manubrial portions , and the posterior may also be in two divisions , but these are not regarded as of primary value .
4 .
Each segment may undergo a secondary lamination into superficial and deep parts , viz. , anterior into superficial and deep manubrial , middle into gladiolar and costal , and posterior into superficial and deep abdominal .
5 .
Superficial manubrial is always present and generally covers the others at its expanded insertion ; it may be distinct or fused with deep manubrial or gladiolar , or both .
6 .
Deep manubrial may be absent , or present and distinct , or fused with , or just separable from , superficial .
It may be fused with costal or very rarely with gladiolar , if the plane of manubrial lamination is more superficial than usual .
The relation of this muscle to the so-called " sterno-scapularis " is discussed , the author being of opinion that the latter is subclavian in its nature .
7 .
Gladiolar may be absent or nearly so .
It may be distinct or fused with superficial or deep manubrial , or with costal or abdominal .
It is very often fused at its posterior border only with costal , the two sheets being otherwise separate .
8 .
Costal may arise from the edge of the sternum and the costal cartilages , from the cartilages alone , or from the ribs .
It has a tendency as it decreases in size to shift its origin farther outwards , and its insertion farther towards the shoulder .
It may be fused with gladiolar or deep manubrial or abdominal .
It may consist of two portions , anterior and posterior .
9 .
Abdominal may be absent or double , and the two parts may overlie one another , or one may be anterior to the other .
It may be fused with gladiolar or costal .
It may be connected by its entire outer border with the dorsal sheet , thus closing the axilla , or fasciculi may pass from one side to the other ( ) .
The origin may wander outwards to the lower ribs ( quartus ) .
10 .
The parts above described are very variously arranged amongst mammalia .
The conditions obtaining are discussed and exhibited in a tabular form .
11 .
The various factors are thus represented in man :\#151 ; 1888 .
] Reflexion and Transmission of Light by Glass .
Superficial manubrial : clavicular and anterior part of major , sometimes separate from the remainder of the muscle .
Deep mavubrial : occasionally present as the pectoralis minimus of Wenzel Gruber .
Gladiolar : posterior , non-reflected part of pectoralis major .
Costal : double ( 1 ) pectoralis , ( 2 ) deep reflected part of pectoralis major .
Abdominal : occasionally present as pectoralis quartus , or as some of the forms of achselbogen .
HI .
" Some Observations on the Amount of Light reflected and transmitted by certain kinds of Glass .
" By Sir John Conroy , Bart. , M.A. , Bedford Lecturer of Balliol College and Millard Lecturer of Trinity College , Oxford .
Communicated by A. G. Vernon Harcourt , Esq. , F.R.S. Received November 8 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments were commenced in order to determine the amount of light lost by transmission through glass .
Plates of the same kind of glass , but of different thickness , were taken , and the amount of light they transmitted determined , and from these values the percentage amounts reflected and obstructed calculated .
The amount reflected from the first surface was also determined directly by measuring the relative intensities of the illumination produced by two argand flames , when the light from both fell directly on the photometric surfaces , and when the light from one fell directly whilst that from the other reached the photometer after reflection from the surface of the glass .
Experiments were also made to ascertain whether repolishing altered in any way the reflective power of the glass ; and the polarising angles of the glass before and after repolishing were also determined .
Conclusions .
It seems probable that the amount of light reflected by freshly polished glass varies with the way in which it has been polished , and that , if a perfect surface could be obtained without altering the refractive index of the surface-layer , then the amount would be accurately given by Fresnel 's formula , but that usually the amount differs from that given by the formula , being sometimes greater and sometimes less .
h 2

