Experiments to determine the Difference in the Number of Vibrations made by an Invariable Pendulum in the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , and in the House in London in which Captain Kater 's E periments were made .
By Captain Edward Sabine , of the Royal Artillery , Sec. R.S. Communicated by the President and Council .
Read December 11 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 83 .
] The experiments of which an account is given in this paper , were made in compliance with a request of the Council of the Royal Society , made in December 1827 , that Captain Sabine would ascertain the difference in the number of vibrations of a pendulum at Mr. Browne 's house , and at the Greenwich Observatory .
The author gives a description of the instruments used in the observations ; the first series of which were made in Mr. Browne 's house , from the 17th to the 20th of March inclusive , and gave as the mean result , 85963-60 vibrations in a mean solar day .
A reduction is here introduced , derived from some experiments made on the difference which takes place in the times of vibration in vacuo and in air ; the number of vibrations in the former case being , under the same circumstances as in the observations , 9 97 per diem less than in the latter .
A corresponding series made at Greenwich in May , gave as the mean 85964-17 vibrations , thus indicating an acceleration of 0 57 vibrations per diem ; but the difference of latitude and of height between the two stations would have led us from theory to expect a total retardation of 0-38 vibration in the same time .
From a second set of observations at Greenwich , the diurnal acceleration appeared to be 0'52 vibration .
Taking the mean of this and the former result , it appears that the total amount of the discordance between theory and experiment is 0-91 vibration per diem , The stations are conveniently situated for verifying the existence of this anomaly , and its magnitude is such as to preclude all uncertainty as to its existence .
With regard to its cause , the author is confirmed in the opinions he formerly entertained on this subject .
Tables are subjoined , containing accounts of the rate of the clocks used at both stations , and of the particulars of each series of observations .

