348 Mr ' J-N- Lockyer .
[ Jan\gt ; ^ It will be seen that while for hydrocarbons fa =K , for animal at , r vegetable oils it is not so .
VI .
" Note on the Occurrence of Ganglion Cells in the Anterior Roots of the Cat 's Spinal Nerves .
" By E. A. Schafer F.R.S. Received January 11 , 1881 .
Ganglion cells are of constant occurrence among the nerve-fibres ol the anterior roots of the cat 's spinal nerves .
They are generally to be found in that part of the anterior root which passes by the ganglion which is seated upon the posterior root .
They are not necessarily situated next the ganglion ; but are often imbedded in the middle of the anterior root , or found lying along its anterior margin , and there- ) fore as far removed as possible from the ganglion upon the other I root .
Moreover , they sometimes occur in the anterior root before this has come in contact with the ganglion , just as isolated ganglion cells are occasionally to be found in the posterior root , some little distance on the spinal-cord side of its ganglion .
The cells in question , although not in any sense numerous , are to be found in most longi-tudinal sections of the anterior roots , but they seem to be especially j abundant in those of the lower dorsal and lumbar nerves .
They resemble on the whole very closely the ganglion cells in the spinal ganglion upon the sensory roots , but it has not hitherto been possible to make out their mode of connexion with the nerve-fibres .
I have sought in vain for ganglion cells in a similar situation in the nerve-roots of man , the dog , the rabbit , and the mouse .
The evidence , therefore , appears to be against the existence of any relation between the occurrence of these cells in the anterior root and the phenomenon of sensibility in that root , known as " recurrent sensation , " for the latter has been observed in animals in which I have been entirely unable to detect the existence of the cells in question ( e.g. , the rabbit ) .
VII .
" On the Iron Lines widened in Solar Spots .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received January 13 , 1881 .
The observations put forward with reserve in my last communication to the Society have now been confirmed .
In the fine spots visible on December 24tb , January 1st and 6th , many lines in the spectrum of iron were seen contorted , while others were steady .
The facts are given in the following table:\#151 ;

