1887 .
] On the Blood-Vessels o/ Mustelus Antarcticus .
437 electrodes were measured by means of a bigb resistance reflecting galvanometer , suitably arranged , with shunt and interposed resistance , for the purpose in hand .
The result of my experiments is to bear out completely the deduction which I had made from Mr. Mortimer Evans ' numbers ; and to show that the temperature which produces , for example , the appearance of a certain red heat , is very much higher wThen the surface of the heated body is dulled than wrhen it is bright as in a polished metal .
I am not yet prepared to give a definite numerical comparison ; but in order to show that the difference of temperatures referred to amounts to many degrees of temperature , I may be allowed to give the following statement .
The two wires being at the same dull red heat , which from previous experience I estimate at perhaps 600 ' C. , in the case of the brightsurfaced wire , the ratio of the resistance of the lamp-blacked platinum to the bright platinum was 130 : 93 .
Platinums differ very much as to variation of resistance with temperature ; but in most specimens the resistance is doubled , when the temperature is raised from 0 ' C. to a temperature of from 300Q C. to 400 ' C. ; and for any particular platinum wire the change in resistance is almost in simple proportion to the change in temperature .
From this statement it may be judged that the difference of temperatures between the two platinums , dull and bright , when giving out the same light , was a great many degrees centigrade .
The difference of temperatures of the two glass envelopes was also very striking .
The glass tube containing the bright wire was not even unpleasantly warm ; while in the case of the other it was so hot as to blister the skin of the hand ; and in this connection it is to be remembered that the vacuum in the two tubes was the same .
I propose as soon as possible to continue this investigation and render it more complete .
XXIV .
" Note to a Paper on the Blood-vessels of Mustelus Antarcticus ( 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1886 ) .
" By T. Jeffery Parker , B.Sc. Lond. , Professor of Biology in the University of Otago .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received May 2 , 1887 .
My attention has been called by a perusal of Professor Milnes Marshall and Mr. C. H. Hurst 's 'Practical Zoology ' ( London , 1887 ) , to an omission in my description of the venous system .
These authors describe and figure , in Scyllium canicula ( pp. 218 and 224 ) a transverse anastomosis , the inter-orbital sinus , connecting the right and Dr. J. C. Ewart .
On Rigor Mortis in , [ June 16 left orbital sinuses , and running in the floor of the skull immediately caudad of the pituitary fossa .
I find that this anastomotic trunk is present in Mustelus antarcticus , in which species , however , it hardly deserves the name of sinus being only 1 mm. in diameter in a dog-fish 1 metre long .
Its median portion is situated , not in the actual cartilage of the skull-floor , but in the thick perichondrium of the pituitary fossa , where it lies immediately dorsad and caudad of the arterial commissures w ( fig. 6 , Plate 35 ) at their point of crossing .
Passing laterad on either side it pierces the cartilage of the cranial floor , and finally enters the orbit by an aperture placed just cephalad of the trigeminal foramen , and about 5 mm. caudad of the carotid foramen .
I doubt whether this can be the anastomotic trunk described by , Robin ( see p. 712 ) , since it is not situated " derri\amp ; re les orbites , " and can hardly be described as " un sinus plus ou moins vaste .
" The vessel in question ought to have been shown in the diagram , fig. B ( p. 723 ) as a narrow trunk connecting the orbital sinuses { orbit , s. ) , and should have been referred to in the general account of venous anastomoses on p. 722 .
XXY .
" On Rigor Mortis in Fish , and its Relation to Putrefaction .
" By J. C. Ewart , M.D. , Regius Professor of Natural History , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received June 6,1887 .
1 .
The Nature of Rigor Mortis .
It has been long recognised ] that rigor varies extremely not only in the time of its appearance , but also in its intensity .
It may be well marked and resemble closely a spasm , or so indistinct that it is better compared to a stiffening than to a contraction of the muscles .
So much is this the case that it might be convenient to describe rigor as accompanied with contraction in some cases and with stiffening in others .
I have often noticed that when rigor comes on immediately after the loss of muscular irritability , it looks extremely like contraction ; but when it is postponed for days , by lowering the temperature or otherwise , it more closely resembles coagulation .
I am inclined to believe that whether the rigor resembles a contraction or a mere stiffening depends on the condition of the nervous system .
If the coagulation of the myosin takes place at or about the same time as the death of the nerves , the rigor will to a certain extent be physiological , and simulate a contraction in the extension of the fins , the bending of the trunk , \amp ; c. ; whereas if the coagulation only sets in some hours , or it may be days , after the death of the

