1881.J Major J. Herschel .
On Gravimeters .
317 station of a soap-film .
A glass tube , blown into a shape somewhat resembling a tobacco-pipe , had its month closed by such a film , while its open stem was connected with a sounding flask .
I did not succeed in producing any visible agitation .
When the film was uniformly illuminated , or when it had become thin enough to produce iridescent colours , on holding a high-pitched tuning-fork near the open end of the stem , the whole surface of the film was immediately covered with concentric rings , having the centre of the film for their centre .
This belongs to the class of effects so vividly described by Mr. Sedley Taylor .
A fork of the pitch of the sounding gas produced no visible effect upon the film .
January 20 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; 1 .
" On Gravimeters , with , special reference to the Torsion-Gravimeter designed by the late J. Allan Broun , F.R.S. By Major J. Herschel , R.E. , F.R.S. , Deputy-Superintendent of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India .
Received October 31 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) In the course of 1878-9 some correspondence passed between Major-General Walker , the Surveyor-General of India , and the late Mr. Broun , on the subject of an instrument designed by the latter , the fate of which General Walker was desirous of learning .
Interrupted by the death of Mr. Broun , General Walker requested the Director-General of Stores for India to inquire if the instrument could be procured for the Indian Government .
It had meanwhile become the property of the Royal Society .
In order to comply with the Surveyor-General 's intention , the loan of the instrument was then obtained from this Society , and it was placed in the hands of the author of this paper to examine and report upon .
The paper consists mainly of a narrative account of the examination , and the conclusions to which he has been led regarding instruments of this class .
318 Major J. Herschel .
On Gravimeters .
[ Jan. 20 A very similar , if not identical , design having been published in the " Comptes Rendus " of the Paris Academy , by the late M. Babinet the author contributes to the history of the subject some letters written by Babinet anterior to the said publication , with the object of showing the concurrent identity and independence of the two designs .
The principle on which the bathometer of Dr. Siemens appears to be constructed is then considered .
Although intended to measure sea-depths , and on that account called a bathometer , it is none the less a gravimeter in principle , and its construction , when properly understood , reminds one forcibly of the typical form as originally proposed , by way of illustration , by Sir John Herschel in the " Outlines of Astronomy .
" The indications of the bathometer , it should be said , are only to be interpreted empirically .
The principle on which the gravimeters of Broun and Babinet are designed is thus emphasized by the latter :\#151 ; " Ce qui distingue surtout ma methode , c'est le fractionnement de la pesanteur , de maniere a equilibrer l'effet d'un poids considerable , par la torsion d'un fil me-tallique de force moyenne , et restant dans les limites de l'elasticite parfaite .
" It is doubtful whether Babinet 's conception ever took practical form as an actually constructed instrument ; at any rate , no published record of its performance exists .
Broun 's design , on the other hand , after many vicissitudes , took the shape of the instrument now under consideration .
It was made for him by Muller of Stuttgart , who appears to have taken extraordinary pains to give effect to the intentions of the designer .
Mr. Broun exhibited his gravimeter in the Loan Collection of Scientific Instruments at South Kensington , in 1876 , where it was placed alongside of Dr. Siemens ' bathometer .
A description of it appeared in the catalogue , corrected by himself , but it is faulty and inadequate , owing to the declining health of the owner having prevented his acquiring a practical acquaintance with his instrument ; nor was l.e able to do so up to the time of his death .
It was , therefore , with the very scantiest preparation that the present examination was undertaken .
The principle of Broun 's gravimeter is easily understood , but the manipulation of the instrument is so troublesome that it is more than doubtful whether in its present form results of any practical value could be obtained with it .
The various grounds for this opinion are explained in the course of the report .
As a fact , no observations , such as were naturally desired to test its sensitiveness , could by any means be obtained , owing to a radical defect of construction , which the maker has unfortunately failed in overcoming , although special attention has been bestowed upon the point .
To explain this , some description of the instrument is unavoidable .
881 .
] Major J. Herschel .
On Gravimeters .
319 If a heavy bar be suspended by two parallel inelastic lines , the force yhich is exerted when the position of rest has been quitted varies , in 11 positions , as .
the force of gravity at the time : if the angle of disturbance and all other attendant circumstances be strictly the same , the proportion between the vertical and horizontal forces is constant ; ind if the suspending lines are long , as compared with their distance apart , this constant is a small fraction .
This is " le fractionnement de la pesanteur " of which Babinet speaks .
We are to regard the horizontal force as representing gravity and varying with it , at different times or places .
Now , if the suspension had been by a single instead of a double line , and that elastic , the horizontal force exerted in consequence of disturbance would have been independent of the weight of the bar , and therefore also of variation of gravity .
It would be a constant force , as far as gravity is concerned .
In the torsion gravimeter these two kinds of suspension are combined\#151 ; the constant being adjusted so as to balance exactly the inconstant force , by the addition or subtraction of a minute subsidiary weight to the primary weight carried by the double lines .
It would be difficult to explain briefly the mechanism by which the condition of equilibrium is ascertained to be perfectly secured : enough has been said to render the source of failure intelligible .
Success must evidently depend on constancy in the force exerted by the single wire ; and this on the fixity of attachment of the ends of the same .
It appeared by repeated trials and experiments of different kinds that this attachment was faulty : further experiments , having for their object to remedy the defect , proved unavailing ; and at last the attempt\#151 ; and with it the intended trial of the instrument as a gravimeter\#151 ; was abandoned , as under the circumstances hopeless .
Unsatisfactory as this result undoubtedly is\#151 ; especially for the credit of so developed an instrument\#151 ; the inquiry has not been entirely barren of useful result .
The theory of the machine had not been fully considered , and at least one important point would seem to have escaped recognition altogether .
There is reason to think that had it been seen that the double suspending lines must practically perform a function precisely similar to that for which the single wire is provided , the latter would have been dispensed with .
It is true that this implies not only other modifications of design but also the further recognition of the part actually played by the torsion of the double wires , of which no sign appears in anything that has yet been published about it .
But it is scarcely doing violence to the ingenuity which developed a complicated machine to suppose that it would have seized upon and utilised a mode of simplification had attention been directed to it .
The simplification to which allusion is here made , has been brought to the notice of the Society in a previous paper .
320 Mr. A. Tribe .
Experimental Researches [ Jan 20 In some other respects also , the examination may he said to ha I borne fruit : for occasion was taken to determine the weights and !
dimensions of parts , and to show the degree of accuracy which mitrht be looked for in such an instrument , supposing it capable of fn1fiiKn its intended purpose .
Some defects of construction also of a general character have been pointed out which may serve as hints to future constructors .
It should be said in conclusion , that so much of the present paper as deals with Broun 's gravimeter in particular , was prepared and submitted as a report in the first instance , to the India Office , and that it was communicated to the Society for publication , by permission of the Secretary of State for India in Council .
What may be called the historical part was subsequently added , by way of introduction , to make it more worthy of that honour .
II .
" Experimental Researches into Electric Distribution as manifested by that of the Radicles of Electrolytes .
" By Alfred Tribe , F.I.O. , Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Communicated by Dr. Gladstone , F.R.S. Received December 15 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is divided into three principal parts ; the distribution of the ions of copper sulphate on silver plates ; analogies between the distribution of ions and that of static electricity ; and analysis of electrolytic fields .
When a solution of copper sulphate is electrolysed with silver electrodes , the negative electrode becomes covered with a deposit of copper , the positive with a coating of silver peroxide .
The author has shown that if a metallic rod or plate is placed lengthwise between the electrodes in a liquid undergoing electrolysis , the plate does work identical in kind with that being done by both electrodes .
It follows that a silver plate in copper sulphate will be found coated on one part with copper , and on the other with silver peroxide .
The superficial distributions of these ions were examined .
A rectangular electrolytic cell , a solution of copper sulphate , and copper electrodes were employed .
The electrodes were of the same breadth and depth as the cell .
In the centre of the liquid , lengthwise and perpendicular to the electrodes , a plate of thin sheet silver was fixed .
In all cases the distributions of the two ions on the plates or even on bodies of various other shapes , were invariably unsymmetrical , the negative ion generally spreading further than the positive .
The dis-

