On the Re-establishment of a Canal in the Place of a Portion of the Urethra which had been destroyed .
By Henry Earl , Esq. Surgeon to the Foundling , and Assistant Surgeon to St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read April 12 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 300 .
] In this paper Mr. Earl details the case of a man whose urethra was much injured in the perineum by a fall in the year 1813 , and who continued to suffer difficulty of making water till 1819 , when he was attacked with retention of urine , followed by effusion and mrortification ; by which the integuments of the perineum , and more than an inch of the canal of the urethra , sloughed away ; forming afterwards a large smooth cicatrix , above and below which the mucous membrane was still visible .
After properly dilating the anterior part of the urethra , Mr. Earl performed the following operation : A portion of integument was removed , about 12 inch long and -lineh wide , on the left side of the cicatrix ; an incision was then made across the perineum , so as to pare away the callous edges of the urethra , and the cutis dissected from a portion of the integument on the right side of the perineum , leaving a smooth space between the cut surfaces to form the lining of the new canal .
The integuments on the right side were then dissected up , turned over a catheter , and brought in contact with the opposite groove , being kept in their place by two ligatures , some straps of adhesive plaster , and a bandage .
This first operation was attended with partial success ; and the patient 's general health being disordered , nothing further was done till the summer of 1820 , when a second operation was performed as follows:-A deep groove was made on the right side of the surface denuded of its cutis ; a portion of integument was then detached from the left side , and properly retained by the quill suture and adhesive plaster .
About two thirds of the canal were thus completed ; 'aand by a third operation , upon a smaller seal , the cure was ultimately

