]\gt ; iments on Dnrk in Helium Hydrogen .
F. W. A , A.I.C. , Research choler , the University of ( Communicated by Professor J. H. Pointing , F.R.S. Received June 14 , \mdash ; Read June 37 , 1907 .
) In a paper recently read before this Society , author described some eriments on the length of the Crookes dark space under eonditions in diff'erent gases .
While ) was under this inequality of was noticed very close to the , which , un the .
conditions , as not defillite enough to wal.rant further attention at the time .
When , vever , heliuul introduced into the : this phenomenon clear , itself to be hitherto undescribed dark } ) close ainst the cathode and inside the dark space , possessing very properties from the latter .
By the time the measurements of the space in helium were completed , the behaviour of the new dark ) had ested a simple explanation , which led to a series of experiments , of this paper is a descl.iption .
\mdash ; The preliminary ) servations of the new dark space were ulade in the uard ring cathode\ldquo ; tube already described , when it was realised that all acculaCc of the urrent density not required , this was replaced a smaller cylindrical tube , 8 cm .
in diameter , with more walls plane aluminium cathode and anode .
this exception , the ) parattlS was entirely as described in the previous paper .
rement of the of Space.\mdash ; As this is small ( its greatest length under measurable conditions is about cm its lneasulement was found to be a matter of considerable attempt at magnification by a telescope , as with the Crookes vorse than useless , and , after seyelal methods of , the hter used for the latter opted eing the nlost reliable .
consisted of a tube about 20 cm .
oncr 1 , at one end with a pointer and at the other with a small eye-hole , the whole mounted to move parallel the of the cathode .
The were lone in da1kness , the error bein about cm .
* F W. Aston , " " Experiments on the of the Cathode Dark ' Proc , 1907 , pp. 80\mdash ; 95 . .
cit. Mr. F. W. Aston .
eriments on New [ June 14 , Th of the Dark of " " the length of the new dark space , showed that it was practically independent of the pressure and proportional to the inverse square root of the current density .
Now the equation expre , sing the distribution of electric force X in the Crookes dark , ] ) was hhown in the previous paper*to be , certain assumptiolJs , where current density , distance f the edge of the Crookes dark space , and of a in a unit field prevailing pressure .
If we substitute ( the length of the Crookes dark space ) for in this expression , we obtain the field just outside the and , since is roughly proportional to , this field is independent of pressure and proportional to cl- , ting that the fall of potential across is constant .
Now suppose the electrons start from the surface ) the cathode from rest , with a unif.orm velocity not great to ionise the gas .
It clear that , if the energy necessary for such ionisation is constant , they can only attain this energy by falling through a delinite potential , so that there will be a space in front of the cathode of definite in which no ionisation will on at all , and where no light would be eYpected .
The new dark space may therefore be arded as the which the electrons fall in to attain to collision with rnolecules .
The influence of the current density upon this enon explainB the fact 0 it being overlooked during the on the Crookes dark space in hydrogen , since only high-current then employed .
The first test of the above theory is the constancy of the fall of potential .
This , ) the distribution of force quoted , is where is the total ] of potential russ the Crookes dark space , which , in the absence of any trace of , has been shown to be practically the same as the en ce of ) between the electrodes .
Since is very much smaller ) , and the error of its measurement comlJaratively great , the second term may he neglected .
The tables for hydrogen and helium show that , over a large ange , the fall of potential across the new dark space is constant within experimental error , is for hydrogen 15 , helium 30 Assuming for the value of the charge on ctron 3 C.G.S. , yives for the to ?
atom of hydr.ogin of hdium , , taking as the value of in electromagnetic units , for hydrogcn , helium , cm .
per second .
1907 .
] Cathode and Hyclrogelb .
of the Darltl oives a mmatic section of the cathode in helium at abont 1 mm. pressure , with a co1nparatively low current densit , The appearance llay be broadly divided FIG. 1 .
, cathode ; , new dark space ; , Crookes dark space ; glow .
into three bands : an intensely black one of the order of cm .
, new dark space , followed by a region of moderate reenish 1 of length about 1 cm .
, the Crookes dark space , terminating finally in the brilliant bluish-green " " \ldquo ; Plate 1 , fig. 1 , is an actual hotograph of the discharge , clearly showino .
the relative proportions .
As the camera was placed close to and level with the cathode , the curvature of the of the Crookes dark space is gerated .
Plate 1 , , shows the appearance of the at a very much current density .
The Crookes dark space has lost all its distinctness outline , while the new dark space is still sharply defined , and much than in The theory given above is well supported ) the intense blackness of the new dark space in pure helium and hydrogen , and by this theory the following effect was predicted:\mdash ; Consider the motion of the first eneration of electrons starting rest , at the surface of the cathode in a field , for simplicity assumed unifol.m .
Let be the distance through which they must freely in such a to obtain sufficient velocity to ionise the gas .
If is smaller than the meall free path of an electroll under such conditions , we should expect just beyond a maximum ionisation and a corresponding maximum adnally fading as we recede from the cathode and the energy of the electrons is dissipated .
But , by the time a point from the athode is reached , the second generation of electrons , formed by collisions at , will have attained Aston . .
Soc. Proc. , A. vol. 80 , 2 .
FIG. 3 .
white line on the left of each of the figures represents the position of the edge of the cathode .
Mr. F. W. Aston .
iments on a New [ June 14 , velocity , so that thele shonld ) lotl ) , but less shalply defined , lnaximun of at a point just beyond beyond , and so on , each more indistinct , so the faint in the Crookes dark space bhould be striated near the cathode .
It is clear that this effect will at its maximum when is of kIue dimensions as the free path of an under stated conditions .
Of effect only the first nlaximum was in ) in elium , at comparatively pressules and very low current densities , the striatio could be plainly seen and photogl a , Plate 1 , is the uction of discharge in helium at a pressure ( beyond the range of the ometer ) of 2 to 3 mm. With a current so as barely to cover the , urface of thode , the curvature of the of the new dark space , due the current density not being uniformly listributed over the cathode , is clearly shown .
Three distinct maxima , and traces of a fourth , could be detected on the original negative .
It is interesting to note that the potential between the electrodes in this particular experiment was well below 200 volts , so that the effect can be shown with ease by means of a suitable tube and an ordinary lamp circuit .
In such striated discharges the distances between the cathode and the firsG maximum and between the first and second maxima , after allowances are made for the distribution of electl.ic force , corre spond to equal falls of potential as nearly as call be estimated .
conclnsion is of importance , for , since the second maximum is caused presumably by electrons formed from molecules of the itself , their initial velocity must ) negligible , erefore the initial velocity of those the first inlum must similarly be igible , so that in helium the electrons may be takell as from aluminium cathode at rest , and the values of miniulum ionisation , velocity already evaluated that becon ) approximately absolute .
Or.(frrenre of \mdash ; It was naturally expected this interesting phenomenon\mdash ; for which the Ilanle cathode dark space\ldquo ; has been suitably ) detected in other gases when the best conditions for its exhibition had been discovered .
Up to the tinle of writing , however , not the slightest indication of it has been observed in air , nitrogen , oxygen , , or carbon monoxide .
For this two explanations are ested if the theory given above is substantially correct , either\mdash ; ( i ) molecules of these ases 1 so low an ionisation energy that \ldquo ; is too small to be detected ; ( ii ) The electrons liberated the sulface of by the } ) 1907 .
] Cathode Dark Space ) and of positive ions of these ases stalt with sufficient velocity to ionise at their very outset , in which case the phenomenon would not exist at all .
Some results obtained from observation of tho length of in mixtures of belium and , which require further investigation , show that the latter is the more In conclusion , I wish to express my heartiest thanks to J. H. for bis kind help and encoura ement t this research .
Table I.\mdash ; Hydrogen .
Table II.\mdash ; Helium .
VPotential difference in volts between electrodes .
Length of Crookes dark space in cm .
Length of new dark space in cm .
The pressures range in hydrogen from to mm. , in helium from to Bracketed measurements were performed at the same pressure .

