I. " Note respecting the Circulation of Gasteropodous Mollusca and the supposed Aquiferous Apparatus of the Lamellibranchiata .
" By M. H. LACAZE DUTHIERS .
Communlicated by Professor HUXLEY .
Received October 19 , 1859 .
A memoir upon the aquiferous system and the oviducts of Lamelli .
branchiate Mollusks by Messrs. Rolleston and Robertson , was read before the Royal Society at the Meeting on the 3rd of February , 1859 .
The abstract of this memoir , contained in the ' Annals and Magazine of Natural H-Iistory , ' reached me in the month of July ; and I was not a little surprised to find that a structure which I had so elaborately studied in the course of my various journeys to the sea-shore , and which I had carefully described in a liumber of species , was something quite different from what I had imagined it to be .
Without entering into minute anatomical details , which would not tend to elucidate the question , I find that Messrs. Rollestoli and Robertson consider that the organs , the ducts , and the orifices supposed to be the ovaries or their excretory ducts , are , in fact , nothing but an aquiferous apparatus , and that the openings placed on each side of the foot are the excretory orifices of this system .
They discover elsewhere the ducts whose office is to convey away the products of the genital glands .
The enunciation of an opinion so opposed to what I , in common with many other authors , had maintained , seemed to require a recurrence to direct observation .
But on repeating my examination of Cardium edule , Tellina solidula , Mactra stultorurn , and Donax anatina , I have precisely verified my previous conclusions .
On throwing injections into the genital orifices , the sexual glands have becoine turgid ; and on examining fragments of such injected genital glands microscopically , the injected substance was seen mixed with the ova or sperrnatozoa .
These facts may be observed with especial ease in Cardium edule .
In addition to this , I have seen ova actually laid by living females of Modiola and Mytili , one of the valves of whose shell was removed , on irritation of the genital orifice ; and in others the ova or the spermatic fluid may be made to pass out of their orifices , at the breeding season , by pressing gently upon the foot .
In Spondylus gaederopus the genital orifice is situated in the sac of Bojanus , and I had great difficulty in finding it when investigating this subject .
It was , in fact , only by chanice that I opened the sac of Bojanus and observed a little rose-coloured cylinder issuing from an orifice in its interior .
This cylinder , like a thread of vermicelli in aspect , was composed of reddish ova mixed with mucus , and agglomerated .
I might multiply examples , but it seems to be uiseless to do so , for I should simply reproduce the facts which I have brought forward in the menmoir which I published in the 'Annales des Sciences Naturelles , ' on my return from a long stay in the Balearic isles .
In this memoir , besides , I have not merely drawn attention to the circumstance , that after ovipositioni the aspect of the gland chaniges completely , which might lead an observer to mistake the apparatus of reproduietion for something quite different , but I have givenl figures of this condition of Pecten varius , &amp;c. In fine , I believe that the structure of the male and female org , ans of the Lamellibranlchiate Mollusca is such as it was described to be before the observationis of Messrs. Rolleston and Robertsoln .
But does the systemr .
of aquiferous vessels , whose occurrence in the Mollusca has been sometimes admitted , sometimes denied , really exist in the Acephala ?
In the abstract to which I refer , those citations , which doubtless existed in the memoir , have not , and probably could not have appeared .
It is well knowln that the belief in this suipposed aquiferous system has been gradually becoming weaker .
The necessity of explaining the extreme dilatation and contraction of the bodies of molluscous animals led anatomists to seek for and describe such a system ; but at present the explalnationi of these facts is found in the direct mixture of water with the blood , or the ejection of the latter liquid .
AIM .
Leuckart and Gegenbaur have made observations tending to prove the occurrence of this process in the Pteropods ; MI .
Langer of Vienna has published a special mnemoir on the circulationl of Anodon , and the great point he makes out is the passage of water into the blood by the intermediation of the organi of Bojanius .
I believe that I have demonstrated in Dentalitrn the orifices by which the direct commiunication of the circulatory apparatus with the exterior of the body takes place ; and lastly , I have founid a Gasteropod , and one which assuredly occupies a very high place in that grotup , which presenits the same arranigement .
I hope to be able before long to bring out a complete AIonograph of the anatomy of Pleurobranchus aurantiacus , iu which the existence of an externial orifice of the circulatory apparatus shall be put beyonid doubt .
As the figure which accompaniies this Note shows , a very small orifice ( 6 , fig. A , and c , fig. B ) with a raised rim is visible above the external genital organs and in front of the principal brarichial vein .
This orifice , hiidden by the contractions of the body , is very conspicuous in the dead animal .
Oni inijecting milk or any other liquid by it , the fluid is seem always to enter the heart ; and on slitting up the branchial vein , there is seen withini it an aperture ( d , fig. B ) leading into a little canal which is coninected with the external aperture , and is the channel whereby the fluid injected enters the heart .
I have varied the methlod of injection in every possible way , and always with the same result .
I cannot conceive that there is any rupture of the parts or any extravasation of the injection , so that I believe ( as may be verified in spirit specimens ) that in the Pleurobranchu8 the circulatory apparatus communicates directly with the exterior .
The demonstration of a direct communication between the exterior and the circulatory apparatus , rendeirs the assumed existence of any aquiferous system a priori less necessary , in order to explaini the great changes of volume of the body of M ollusks .
But I believe that , in addition , mnicroscopic examsination will show the direct continuity of the genital glands with the lateral orifices placed at the base of the foot in the Lamellibranchiata .
This communication of the vascular apparatus with the external water , has a very important bearing on the history of the niutritive processes .
The physiological conceptions derived from the sttudyof the higher animals are sinlgntlarlv affected by finding Creatures which can at will throw out a portion of their blood , or , on the conitrary , dilute with water that which is , }amr eceellence , the nutritious element .
This would be sufficient to prove , were it necessary to do so , how wide is the difference between the vital processes of the lower and of the higher animals E XPLANATION OF TH-IE FIGURES .
A. Pleurobranchus auranztiacus , seen in a side view .
a. Heart .
b. External orifice of the sanguiferons system , placed before the branchib and above the genital organ .
B3 .
Enlarged view of the heart , branchial vein , &amp;c. a. Auricle .
b. Venitricle .
c. External opening through which fluid may be injected into the heart .
d. Braiuchial vein laid openi at this part to show the internal openiino of the canal which leads froma the external orifice e. R. Peniis .
f. Part of the braucihial vein , unopened .

