VI .
Part of a Letter from Mr Anthony van Leuwenhoek , F. R. S. concerning the Figures of Sand .
Delft , Dec. 4 .
1703 .
N. S. I Take the liberty again of sending you the following Observations .
I remember I have formerly affirmed of Sand , that you cannot find in any quantity whatsoever two Particles thereof , that are entirely like each other , and tho perhaps in their first Configuration they might be alike , yet at present they are exceeding different ; the Sand especially that we make use of is obnoxious to so great alterations , that it would be a wonder , if even in its smallest ~ , of which there may be a thousand in one small grain~ there should be an exact ~ .
For let us conclude ~as I have ~ ~ ) that our common Sand , of which ~~ differs from another in ~ , was found at ~~ smooth sides and sharp points , the said ~~ sides are so rubbed one against t'other , that several small ~ or holes may be per~ in them , whereby they ~ their first figure , and who can conceive what changes those ~ of Sand ~ , that lye next the ~ of the Terrestial Globe , and especially such as lye some depth under a stony ground where laden Waggons pass often , for those Particles of Sand , by frequent compressions and collisions , wound each other , indenting holes in their sides , and breaking off the sharp ~ or Angles ; not ~ mention what alterations are made in these small bodies by Storms , Thunder , Earthquakes , &amp;c. After having exerted my poor Observations on these matters , I got some shining Sand from an old Gentleman , a Kinsman of mine , who was Presented with the same by a Book keeper belonging to the East India Company , in the year 1648 .
and to the best of my ~ Folks used to strow their Letters with such a kind of Sand about that time .
This Sand , tho very thin , was not transparent , the shiningness being wholly occasioned by the ~ of the Light from the polished sides ; several ~ of the said Sand , which were much bigger than the ~ , did not reflect any Light , tho to the naked Eye they seemed smooth ; from whence I concluded , that they had lost their glance by a frequent rubbing their sides against others .
When I viewed several grains of the ~ Sand with my Microscope , I was surprised to see that many of them were hexangular , and the more , when I~~ the finest from the coursest ; neither could I observe that any of the Sands were like each other .
I~ the said Sand with great attention several times , imagining that by some Earthquake or other it might be thrown up from the place where it had lain in rest , to the superficies of the Earth ; and many grains , as I fancied , had preserved their original shape and figure , for they had received little or no damage , especially the small ones , and many of those had such points and sides , that no Diamond , tho polished by able Workmen , could equal the beauty of it .
I infused some of this Sand into Aqua fortis , to try whether it would dissolve them , or deprive them of their shining quality , and tho it lay in the said Water several days , I could not perceive any alteration in it .
Moreover , I tried the said Sand with so brisk a Fire as was capable of melting Silver , and yet it did not ~ either its Figure or Glance .
These Particles of Sand being exceeding small , and not unlike what we call white scowering Sand ; I thought ~ worth the while to Design some of them .
~ .
1 .
Tab. 1 .
ABCDEF represents an hexangular grain of Sand that was as bright and shining as any ~ Metal , and the triangular Figures which appeared upon it were as bright as the rest of the body , which occasioned a very agreeable spectacle , and could not be contemplated without ~ .
I placed another grain of Sand before one of my ~~ less than the former , but it was flat~ and in my ~ not the 16th part so big as a course grain chosen out ~ our common white Sand .
This was a surprising Figure , and the ~ persons ~ saw it were 3 Painters , who were ~ with wonder in viewing it , and one of them , who was not the ~ ~mong them , offered his service to draw the ~ of such a wonderful Sand , and another desired ~ to let him to take a Copy of the same , that he might let other curious persons see the strange things in such a small body .
~ the said Sand , which is described by GHIK L , you may see not only , as it ~ , a~ Temple , but in the corner of it GHI~ two ~ of humane shape , kneeling , and extending their Arms to an Altar , that seems to stand at ~ little distance from them ; this was still the more ~ , because it was as bright as ~ polished Steel .
Fig. 3 .
MNOP represents ( as near as the Limner could trace it ) another hexangular small Sand , with two sharp points like Pyramids , and each side that composed the said points were very ~ and ~ : I have seen several such Sands , that on each side had a smooth , shining and oblique superficies , insomuch , that upon one single grain I have counted 24 such polished sides or faces .
I have also observed several small Sands , that instead of terminating their six sides in a sharp point , ended sometimes in a Triangle , Quadrangle , and even in a~ or Hexangular shining flatness .
I remarkt several ~ sided Sands , of which some were regular Triangles , which were very shining and very thin , others were thicker .
~ Fig. 4 .
Q. R. S. I showed the Painter other Sands that were complete hexangles , the ~ sides of which appeared to us like a~ Looking Glass in a Frame , and in some of them were little holes , which seemed to some to be likewise hexangular ; whence I concluded , that such a hole was made from the pressure of another Sand of the like Figure .
See Fig. 5 .
T. V. W. When I looked upon any of these Sands sideways , each of the six sides , which in the Figure appear as a Frame or Border , seemed to be a Polished Looking-Glass .
Fig. 6 .
XYZ does also represent an Hexangular Sand opposed to the sight a little sidewise , whereby the Reflection is not so full and large as ~ the flat side were placed directly before the eye ; but then it came from the two sides which represent a part of the Frame , and are shown in this figure by the Letter X. Now when the hinder part of such a Sand is brought before the sight , I observe that it has the same figure , and that then , that part of it , which I should have described as a dark circle of the shining Sand , was composed of twelve bright , oval , flat superficies .
I gave the Limner another hexangular Sand to draw , whose bright Superficies or Area was of a different make from its circumference , for there appeared in the middle of them several triangular figures , which , tho they were something raised or imbost , were very bright , which was very pleasant to behold ; see Fig. 7 .
AB C , and altho the circumference in this position appeared very dark , yet the sides thereof , when opposed to view , were no less bright and shining .
I caus 'd the Painter to design another grain of Sand , which is represented by Fig. 8 .
DEFGH with its proturberant parts and their respective sides ; but it is impossible to describe with the Pen the beauty and variety of the figures in the said Sand , neither can any body imagine it but those that see it .
I turned the opposite side of the said Sand to my Glass , whereby I discovered the several shining Angles thereof , as in Fig. 9 .
IKL M. I placed another small shining Sand before my Glass , which appeared as in Fig. 10 .
OPQ R , several of whose sides were unblemished ; in a word , if I should undertake to give you a view of a thousand others , and should enter upon a strict examination of every one of them , I doubt not but we should discover every one of them to be of a different size and figure , besides several other particularities which might be peculiar to each one , as the great Rent or Breach , which in fig. 8 .
is described by a a. I have also observed that this shining Sand weighed twice a heavy as our common scouring Sand .
Now when I took some of the Pellucid or Transparent Sand ( which did not shine , because it reflected no light ) I observed that the sides and angles of each Grain were ~ from scars and blemishes than most others ~ had yet considered , from whence I concluded , that such Sand had not lain long near the superficies of the Earth .
I placed one of these Sands before a Microscope , so as the Painter might have a full view of three of the four oblique sides , see Fig. 11 .
ABCDE F , one of the flat sides being represented by BCD G , another DEA G , which had a streak or scratch in it , supposed to be done by the pressure of another Sand upon it ; and the third flat side is described by BGa b. Having represented this transparent Sand in its shortest position , I put it in another sight , so as you might see it in its full length , as in Fig. 12 .
HIKL M , and therein streaks or little holes , which I firmly concluded to be occasioned by the collision of other Sands .
I likewise took notice of some , but veryfew , Sands that were long and slender , and which did not appear bigger thro a common Microscope , than a single hair of onesBeard to the naked Eye .
I have taken several of the shining Sands and broke 'em to pieces , and then viewed the broken pieces thro a Microscope , and observed , that many of those small Particles , tho they were a thousand times less than a grain of common Sand , had a glance or lustre when the light fell upon them , and that several such particles , and some that were larger , if you looked upon them against the light , represented a fine blooming red ; but some of them were so but in part , from whence I concluded , that part which was not red was thicker than the rest , and did not admit of light thro it .
Among these small broken pieces of Sand , I observed some that had six sides , others that were iangular ; all these Sands are to be considered as common Sand .
I took one of the above-mentioned long slender Sands , which I judged also to be one of the thickest , and placed it before a Microscope , as you may see in Fig. 13 .
NOP Q , in which you may distinctly perceive four flat sides .
I have observed in many Sands , that their bodies consisted of unspeakably thin scales or scaly particles .
Among these shining Sands I discovered others that had no lustre at all , neither had any of their particles after I broke them to pieces , but it appeared to be a dark red matter , and in other Sands so broken there was not only a red matter , but even an hundred shining particles , all proceeding from one Sand .
I have also seen some Sands , that in the middle of their shining sides represented small figures that gave no lustre , but as I viewed them more narrowly , I found it was a red matter , incorporated as it were in the Sand .
I have placed several Sands of the coursest sort before a Microscope for the pleasure I took in the viewing them , for one seemed to represent an agreeable Rock of Stone , another , a deep Cavern , insomuch , that several persons whom I made partakers of the sight , were astonished to see such various figures in such small bodies .
These last Sands were not , I suppose , so shaped from the beginning , but those cavities and protuberance which we espied in them , came from various chances and accidents , as by the collision of other particles of Sand which were bigger than these , which in their turn were again broken by other bodies of a larger size , such as Pebblestones , &amp;c. I have cleaved some grains of Sand , and discovered figures of Triangles in them .
I have by me some draughts of Stone composed of particles of Sand , but because I will not heap up too many things together~ I shall break off here .
Bbbbbbbbb2 Del Delf in Holland , February 1 .
1704 .
SOon after that the Cathedral Church at Utrecht was almost ruined by the dreadful Storm , my curiosity led me to view the fallen Pillars and other parts of that Building that lay about , and I observed , that several of the Pedestals were composed of red Stone , as also some Tombstones ; and that in another Church there was a whole Pillar of such Stone , and forasmuch as neither in our Town , nor any other Town that I know of , this sort of Stone is made use of by Masons in the building of Houses , I took some of it home with me , in order to observe it with my Microscope , and I did then imagine that that sort of Stone consisted for the most part of large and transparent corns of Sand , and that the redness of the Stone was only caus 'd by a certain red matter , which had produced such a continuity or adhesion in the mass of the Sand , as to be able to consolidate it into a red Stone .
Being of this opinion , as I said before , I took the little piece of red Stone , and separated several Sand-particles from it as gently as I could ; and because the red matter which clung to some of the Sands more than others , hindered me from taking a distinct and clear view of each particular corn , I put some of them into Aqua Fortis , to try whether that would dissolve the red matter , and restore its lustre to the Sand ; but in vain , for that Menstruum was not able to separate 'em .
Then I took several of those Particles of Sand that were surrounded with the least of such Red Matter , and placing them before the Microscope , observed that some of ~em~had ten or more sharp Points or Protuberances , so neatly and regularly fashioned , that no Polished Diamond could out do them , I set one of the largest Corns of Sand before my Class , ~ could perceive in the same , and that too in a very small compass , seven neat Prominent Points ( exceeding one another in length and bigness ) issuing out of very smooth sides ; and I judged that one such Sand was furnished with above a hundred flat sides , which were very smooth , and consequently very shining , tho with the naked eye one could discover no brightness worth mentioning ; the reason of which I conceive to be , that this Sand being partly transparent , admitted the light thro its Pores , and did not reflect it back like shining Sands .
These Sands , tho I viewed never so many of them , I found to be each of a different figure , and when I picked out any of them that were somewhat oblong , I seldom failed to discover at the ends a four or five sided obtuse point , so neat and regular as if it had been polished .
I broke to pieces several grains of Sand upon a clean Glass , and found that they were not near so strong as the shining Sand , and having placed the small particles of such a broken Sand before my Microscope , some of them appeared like whole Sand with its entire sides and angles .
This was a very agreeable spectacle to me , to see so many neat smooth sides , and so many exact points and angles all derived from a single grain .
Tho it is impossible for any Limner to describe these points and sides exactly , yet I caus 'd some to be designed as well as I could .
Fig 1 .
Tab. 2 .
ABCDE represents thro a Microscope one of the above~mentioned Sands , of which many together compose the Red Stone ; ABCD shows the points~ which are much more plainly seen than several others that cannot be distinguisht , because of their different positions .
Fig. 2 shows you another Sand which likewise has several points , tho not so obvious as the former , because they do not stand so far outwards .
Fig. 3 .
MNOP represents the last mentioned Sand , only with this difference , that you see it in another position .
Fig. 4 .
QRST shows also a Sand of the aforesaidStone , in which , you may observe the Diamond cut better than the former .
Fig. 5 .
VWXYZ represents two grains of Sand that were still joined to each other , the one is described by VW X , wherein you may observe several points , and particularly between W and X , and the other is shown by XY Z , and the most of its points lye between Y and Z. Now as some of the smooth sides of these Sands were large , and others small , and that all of them were not so smooth as polished Glass , and had several small scratches or slits in them , I do suppose that might happen by the breaking or division of these sandy particles from one another .
That piece of the Red Stone that still remained entire was about the bigness of a Pea , and when I beat it in pieces , there flew a spark of Fire out of it .
I made a small bit of it so hot~ that it was glowing , and so let it drop into water , supposing , that not only the particles of Sand would be separated thereby , but that the red matter also which consolidated the Sand would be divided from it too ; but i found that the Sands only were separated from one another , and each particle of Sand was as strong as if it had never been in the Fire , and was also surrounded with the red matter ; but in some of them , which had assumed a greater transparency than before , I could plainly discover that each Particular grain did consist , or rather was a congeries of several small par~ , of which ou should see in some Sands , fifty such standing out , like pointed pyramids , all transparent , and some of them had the same figure as the grain of Sand it self had .
By these Observations I was fully satisfied , that the Sands of which the above-mentioned red Stone was composed , had for the most part preserved their original Figure , and that they were so hard and solid , that their falling one upon another could not produce any adhesion , otherwise than by the intervention of that red matter , which was interspersed and mixed with them .
From these remarks , I naturally turned my thoughts to Diamonds , and my hypothesis is , that all the Diamonds that have or shall be discovered , do not grow , nor are made in any series of time , but were formed like other Sands , in the beginning of the World , for how is it possible that such a pelluid body can be produced in the Bowels of filthy Earth , by a congealing or coagulated succus or moisture ; and if it were so , why do n't we meet with very large Diamonds ?
for when a small Diamond is once formed , there would be a more than ordinary conflux of the same plastic matter thereto , as we find in other things , that they have always a strong tendency or inclination to substances of a homogeneous nature with themselves .
I have been assured that in some places , Water does filtrate thro the Rocks into the snbterraneous Caverus , and coagulate at the top of those Vaults or Particles like Ninepins , and at last are really petrify 'd .
We may allow this to be true , but if these nine pin kind of particles , which I look upon to be nothing else but a petrify 'd Salt , were observed with a Microscope , and compared with the same Particles of the Rock , from whence the above mentioned Filtration proceeds , I make no manner of doubt , but that the Nine-pin like Particles .
would be found to differ from the other .
That I might be satisfied in my above mentioned Observations , I took a piece of white Marble that was brought hither from Italy ; it was of two sorts , the one was strong , and the other light and very brittle .
I broke the brittle Marble as gently as I could , that the configuration of the small particles might not be much altered , and having viewed several of them with my Glass , I saw abundance of wonderful particles , which may justly be styled Sands with their regular sides and angles , and many of them of the same figure as the shining Sand .
But not being satisfied with this hypothesis , viz. that the above-mentioned particles were originally nothing else but Sand particles , with their angles and smooth sides , and that at the time of their coalition or falling upon one another , they were all soft and flexible , and thereby were so rivetted and joined together , as to become one solid body , which we call Marble , and consequently the said particles did for the most part change their figure , and assumed another form , proportionable to the solidity of their coalition , and that yet some of them had preserved those smooth sides and angles , which they had at the time of their conjunction , the which angles and sides represent the points that are found in Diamonds ; and that in one particle of Sand you may discover three , and in another seven neat and regular points .
From these Observations , I imagined that almost all the Sand of the whole Earth have preserved the figure that was given to it at the Creation , and that the particles thereof before they happened to collide or fall upon others , were composed of such hard bodies , that they could not be joined to others , and so have remained what they were originally ; saving that by their frequent collisions with other bodies their first figure may be something impaired , and the nearer they lye to the surface of the Earth , the more subject they are to such alterations .
When I opposed such a Diamond-like Sand with its point to the sight , I could see the said point , but the sides from whence the points arise , are the more obvious ; and such position the Sand would appear four , five or six sided , and not only so , but where two sides joined , I could also perceive such a point of a Diamond-cut standing out .
I have thought fit to cause three of the Sand particles of the above-mentioned white Marble , as they were separated from each other to be designed .
Fig. 6 .
ABCDEF represents one of those grains of Sand , of which a great number compose the white Italian Marble stone , wherein at each of these Capital Letters you may see its points or angles .
Fig. 7 .
GHIKL shows you the second Sand , and those Letters the several points .
Fig. 8 .
NOPQ is the third Sand , wherein there is such a flatness NO P , as is observable in few Sands .
I took a little piece of the said Marble , the parts of which were very close and compact , and making it red hot I dropped it in the Water , in the doing whereof , I observed not only the Sand particles were separated from one another , but some of them broke away with that violence , that they were thrown out of the Water .
I took some of this Water presently , in order to see what Salts were past over from the Stone into the Water ; and I could soon perceive a sort of a Membrane , or rather Scum over the Water , without being able to discover any Particles in the said Scum , the which I conceived to consist of coagulated Salts ; and that there were some such under the Scum ; but they were so obscure that I could not much count upon them ; and the more , because they were hid by the said Scum .
I took then a larger piece of the above mentioned Stone , and heating it red hot , I let it fall into the Water also , whereupon there came a thicker Scum over the Water , which I let lie upon it 24 hours , and then breaking it , and taking a little out of the Water , I found it hard and petrify 'd , and placing it before my Microscope , Ccccccccc to to discover ( if it were possible ) the figure of those Particles ; I could not however compass my Intentions , tho I often repeated the Trial , by reason of the smallness of the Particles , and their strict union with each other ; only a few of them appeared to me four and six-sided , and to reflect the Light from so many Parts ; others that were bigger were composed of some three , some four smaller Particles , which we may thus reckon to be Salt Particles .
Several thousands of these little Particles lay in a very small space , which being separated and broken in pieces , I judged that each Particle did consist of many more and much smaller ones ; and indeed they were so small that they almost escaped my sight , thro the best of my Microscopes .
I tried some of the above-mentioned particles in a pretty strong Fire , and found that they lost some of their transparency thereby , and were divided into smaller particles that were quite dark and obscure .
After this , I took a little of that Water which lay under the superficies of the supposed coagulated Salts , imagining I should sind someSalt-particles in the said Water , andputting it upon 3 several clean Glasses , I observed after the space of 4 hours the Water to be quite exhaled , and that there remained many thousands of Salt particles out of one single drop of Water , the which Salts were all separated from one another , many of their superficies being very bright , but their sides dark ; and I could clearly perceive that some of their superficies were shining , and their figure quadrilateral ; the darkness of whose sides I judged to be , because those Salts were squares , in shape like Dice ; between these Salt particles lay others that were much smaller , and I believe of the same figure too , but because of their smallness I could make no certain judgment of them .
After that , the Water which lay very thin was suddenly exhaled , I saw several Salts that were larger than the rest , and more irregular in their figures , but coagulated together , some of 'em were squares , but not regular .
I took about ten times as much Rain water , and mingled it with the above-mentioned Salt water , and then observed that the Salts were not dissolved , but emerged to the top of the Water , but when I pressed the same Salt Particles under Water , so as to wet them all over ; they subsided to the bottom , and remained there without being dissolved , or uniting themselves to the said Water .
Now seeing the great number of Salts extracted from the aforesaid Stone are of so obstinate and tenacious a figure that nothing but Fire can divide them , and then too they are such inflexible bodies , that they cannot be dissolved in Water ; we may well conclude that the grains of Sand which compose such Stones were not only soft at the time of their coalition or union with each other , but also at the same time there intervened a very inflexible fixed Salt ( in lieu of Mortar ) between the particles of Sand , unless you will chuse to say , that each particle of Salt do in some degree consist of such fixed Salts .
After this , I took a piece of Hearth-stone called Benthemer stone , because it is found in Quarries in the County of Benthem , and is brought to us in great or small Blocks or Parcels ; this Stone was so soft that I could easily crumble it between my fingers , as I did , and viewing it with one ofmy Glasses , could perceive nothing but particles of Sand , without the least smooth side , or regular corners ; and it seemed to me moreover , that this Sand had acquired a sort of conglutination , or was grown into a solid substance , which we call Stone , a long time after it had been nothing but Sand , and its particles had been worn and collided against each other ; my reason is , because this Sand that had been lately Stone , in the sides of every grain of it was as full of small holes and breaches as any Sand I ever saw ; and in viewing them one would imagine that they were composed of thousands of smaller particles , and that some of them were of a triangular , other of an exC ccccccc2 act act flat quadrangular figure ; and when I observed these Sands in rest , I judged that the original shape of many of them were hexangular , and many were pointed like Diamonds , and those points proceeded or issued forth of smooth , flat sides .
The chips and pieces of the Benthem-stone , as well those that are found in the Pits , as those that are chizel 'd off in the working of the same by our Stone-cutters , are not thrown away as useless ; but they break them with Hammers almost as small as Sand , and the Powder or Crumbles of 'em is what we call Bik-stone , and is used to clean WoodenWork , being very proper to fetch off the filth from Wooden Vessels , which is not strange , considering what sharp Angles such beaten Stone consists of , not unlike our common Sand .
I took a small bit of the said Stone which was very hard , and wrapping it up in Paper , with a little Hammer broke it in pieces , but could observe no other difference between the former Sand and this , excepting , that the particles of the last were much smaller .
I took a piece of another Stone , which we call Alabaster Stone , and of which , little or none comes to us , save what is wrought into Images , &amp;c. and having viewed it several times , I observed after breaking or beating it very small , that the little particles were very thin and pellucid , and their figure a long and flat square , with two sharp corners and two blunt ones ; and tho I saw among them some others that were not quite so regular , yet I fancied that that exactness and regularity of their figures had been lost in the violent separating them from one another .
The above mentioned particles , were for the most part so exceeding small , that they could hardly be seen thro my best Microscope , but some of them ( whose figure being greater , I could more easily discern ) appeared to be composed of very thin parricles lying upon each other .
Now , when I viewed those particles of Stone that were as large as grains of Sand , I found that each of them was composed of several thousands of smaller particles , whose shape I could not for my life discover ; and when I made a little bit of the said Stone red hot and dropped it into the Water , it dissolv~d into a white substance as fine as Meal or Flower , and thereby lost all its transparency , and each particle , tho its figure had been a longish square , was now composed of such small particles , that it was impossible to perceive any shape it had .
After this , I took another little piece of Stone , which is called a Mineral-stone , and was brought hither from Sumatra ; the which was so rich , that the hundred weight of it contained near fifty Gilders of Silver , and thirty in Gold .
I took of the said Stone about the bigness of a common Bean , and putting it over a pretty smart Fire , the Sulphur , of which there was a great deal in the Mineral , stood in bubbles , and remained upon the Stone in the figure of round , black , burnt Globules ; then I dropped it red hot into Water , where it remained whole , only with this difference , that whereas before it was very hard , now it became very brittle , and having broken it , I perceived it to consist of irregular particles chiefly , tho some few were of an exact Diamond-cut ; but that which pleased and satisfied me most , was , that I could behold much more plainly than before , the globules of Gold and Silver lying separately from one another , but some of the former were so exceeding small , that they almost escaped the sight in the Microscope ; and for as much as the Gold is not near so easy to be melted as the Silver , I saw some that the Fire had not force enough to reduce it to globules , and upon it lying a small globule of Silver , which the Fire had brought into that figure ; and tho the Gold and Silver touched each other , yet they were not united , because theFire where thatGold lay was not strong enough to reduce it to a fluid body .
I have often observed in these Mineral Stones , that one part of 'em was white , and another a little lower in the same Stone a dark grey , and that they are brought to us in little pieces , the bigger not exceeding a joint of ones Finger , and that in some few pieces there were little cavities or breaches , wherein I never met with any Metal , either of Gold or Silver ( for in that Mineral there is no other ) but oftentimes with very small Crystals ; I call them so , because of the analogy of their Figures with ~ of Rock-Crystal , for like them they are transparent , ~ , and end in a point or spire .
These Crystals were in the white part of the Stone , for those that were in the grey were not pellucid .
I caused a small particle of such Crystal , so as it appeared thro my Glass , to be designed by the Limner , and Fig. 9 .
RSTV represents it as bright and clear as ever you saw any Crystal ; I have seen some that were not near so transparent , but indeed they were taken out of Mineral stones that were of a dark grey colour .
Some are apt to believe that these Crystals are formed by the exhaling damps or moistures deep in those Mines , from whence the Mineral stone is dug ; but this is contrary to my sentiments , for upon that hypothesis , the whole cavities should be filled with the particles , whereas we find the contrary , for I have observed that not one fourth part of the cavities are filled therewith ; and I have found some of the said Crystals in such small cavities that a pins head would have filled them , and in breaches of the Mineral stone that were not so broad as a small pin is thick , whereas I could meet with none of these Crystals in other cavities that were much larger .
I will rather suppose that most of the stony matter where those cavities are found , was of the same configuration as the said Crystals , and at the same time of the coalition or union of the particles of Stone , the intercepted Air occasioned some cavities , in which the Crystals were shut up , and in which they acquired the figure which they now retain ; in the mean time the other parts about these cavities were so firmly united as to become a hard and solid Stone .
Before that I considered the conjunction of the particles of divers Stones , I imagined that these particles were united to each other by such a fixed Salt , that nothing but Fire could separate them ; but I am convinced now that this supposition will not hold in all Stones .
Fig= 12 DK TAB=I 3 ECO Fig =1 ~ B PA FN B A E I M L H G 456 7B4 R xS VI T A SC Q WZR 89 FL 10 E P ~MK ~ Ga~o I N D H R7K 12 11 K DCI 13 PI GBO EH L ~ H b A ~G FM Philos = Trans act~ ~~ TAB =2~ ~=123 ~CO BHIN G ~ D F K E L M 4 S 5 6 YD E TX C F WZ B V QA 9 T 7K 8 S P L Q V MO R G

