108 Messrs. Elliot , Sillar , and Carmichael .
[ May 12 , | present in animals dying from the effects of subcutaneous injections of this venom .
We have also emphasised the fact that , in experiments \ carried out by dropping venom on the exposed medulla oblongata , we have failed to kill animals through the respiratory centre with their motor nerve-ends still undamaged .
In this respect , we have shown that Enhydrina venom differs in its action from Cobra venom .
It would therefore appear that , in poisoning with Enhydrina venom , motor nerve-end paresis plays a much greater part than it does in cobraism .
It is not difficult to suppose that a blunting of the motor nerve-end mechanism , even though far from absolute , may seriously add to the embarrassment of a centre which has already been directly and gravely enfeebled .
We hope to return to this and other points in a future communication .
In conclusion , we desire to express our sense of indebtedness to the India Office , to the Government of India , and last , but by no means least , to the Madras Government , for the assistance and facilities which they have given us in the carrying out of this research .
" On the Action of the Venom of Bungarus cceruleus ( the Common Krait ) .
" By Major .
R. H. Elliot , * I.M.S. , W. C. Sillar , M.B. , B.Sc. , Lecturer on Experimental Pharmacology , Senior Assistant in the Materia Medica Department , University of Edinburgh , and George S. Carmichael , M.B. , Ch. B. , Assistant in the Materia Medica Department , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Sir Thomas R. Fraser , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 12 , \#151 ; Read June 9 , 1904 .
( From the Pharmacology Laboratory of the University of Edinburgh .
) ( Abstract .
) The only previously recorded work known to us on this subject was performed by Captain L. Rogers , I.M.S. , and his results were published at the beginning of the present year .
Experiments were performed by us in the Pharmacological Laboratory of the University of Edinburgh with the following results:\#151 ; I. We determined the minimum-lethal dose of the dried venom for frogs and small mammals , rats and rabbits only being chosen , as our stock of the venom was very limited .
We found that the M.L.D. for the frog was about 0'0005 of a gramme per kilo .
, for the rat 0*001 gramme per kilo .
, and for the rabbit the remarkably low dose of 0*00008 gramme per kilo .
# On special duty for Snake-venom research , under the orders of the Secretary of State for India .
1904.1 On the Action of the Venom of Bungarus cceruleus .
109 II .
We found that Calmette 's anti-venomous serum in quantities sufficient to protect rats against ten minimum-lethal doses of Cobra venom , in the same quantities was quite powerless to protect these animals from similar doses of Krait venom .
III .
We studied the condition of various nerve terminals , both in animals that die after poisoning by Krait venom and in nerve muscle preparations from the frog , and found that the integrity of these nerve ends was invariably involved at a comparatively early stage in the poison .
IY .
The blood was carefully examined and no evidence of antemortem clotting or intravascular haemolysis was discovered .
V. We examined the action of Krait venom when its solution was perfused through the isolated vessels and heart , respectively , of the frog .
We found that this venom , while resembling in action that of Cobra venom , differs greatly in the degree of constriction of vessels and enhancement of ventricular contraction produced .
Cobra venom exercises an action in these directions many times greater than that of Krait venom .
Cardio-plethysmographic tracings are shown .
YI .
Studying the manner in which the vital functions of mammals ( rabbits , cats , and dogs ) were influenced when exposed to the action of this venom , we show by means of kymographic and plethysmographic tracings that the vaso-motor centre is strongly affected , a suspension of the activity of this centre , as shown by the great splanchnic dilatation , rapidly ensuing after its transient stimulation .
There are also indications of a feeble cardio-inhibitory action .
The experiments and illustrative tracings likewise show that death is brought about by destroying the activity of the respiratory centre .
VII .
From these results the conclusion may be arrived at that while the symptoms produced by Krait poisoning are similar to those of Cobra poisoning , they differ so much in relative degree as to render it doubtful if they can properly be spoken of as identical .

