Abstract of Observations on a diaurncal Varitation of the Barometer between the Tropics .
By J. Horsburgh , Esq. In a Letter to Henry Cavendish , Esq. F.R.S. Read March 1.4 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 177 .
] It appears from Mr. Horsburgh 's journal , that in steady weather , within the tropics , a regular elevation and depression of the barometer takes place twice in every twenty-four hours , the greatest depression being about four o'clock morning and evening , and the greatest elevation being from eight in the morning till noon , and from nine or ten in the evening till midnight .
In a letter which accompanies the journal , dated Bombay , April 20th , 1804 , Mr. .
Horsburgh says he has observed , since his arrival in India , that the atmosphere appears to affect the barometer differently at sea from what it does on shore .
As a proof of this , Mr. Horsburgh gives a series of observations , made on two barometers , one by Troughton , the other by Ramsden , of which the following is an abstract .
From the time of leaving the Land 's End , on April 19th , 1802 , the mercury was fluctuating and irregular , till April 29th , lat. 26 ?
N. , long .
20 ?
W. , when it constantly performed two elevations and two depressions every twenty-four hours .
These Mr. Horsburgh calls equatropical motions .
From lat. 260 to 10 ?
the difference in the high and low stations of the mercury was not so great as it was from the latter latitude across the equator , and from thence to lat. 250 S. Within the last-mentioned limits , the difference was very considerable , being generally from five to nine hundredths of an inch , both in the day and the night .
When the ship arrived in lat. 280 S. , long .
27 ?
W. ( June 7th ) , the mercury no longer performed the equatropical motions , but was irregular and fluctuating until July 11th , when the ship was in latitude 27 ?
S. , long .
510 E. The equatropical motions then took place again , and continued with great regularity while the ship sailed up the Madagascar Archipelago , and across the equator , until the arrival of the ship at Bombay , on the 31st of July .
On the 6th of August the barometers were placed on shore , and , from that day to the 12th , the mercury appeared to have a small tendency towards the equatropical motions ; from the latter day to the 22nd of the same month , that tendency was so much diminished as to be generally imperceptible .
On the 23rd of August the barometers were again put on board the ship , which left the harbour of Bombay on the 26th .
The mercury then immediately began again to perform the equatropical motions , and continued them , with great uniformity , down the Malabar coast , across the bay of Bengal , in the strait of Malacca , and through the China Sea , until the ship arrived in Canton river , on the 4th of October .
The mercury then became nearly stationary , or , if it showed at times a small inclination towards the equatropical motions , such inclination was not by any means so perceptible as at sea .
The ship remained at Canton till the 2nd of December , and , although there appeared at times a slight tendency in the mercury to perform the equatropical motions , the rise and fall was in general so small as to be frequently imperceptible ; but , on the departure of the ship from Canton river , the motions instantly took place , and continued until the ship arrived in Bombay harbour , on the 11th of January 1803 .
From that day to the 23rd of May , the ship remained at Bombay ; and during the whole of that time , no tendency towards the equatropical motions worth noticing could be perceived .
On the abovementioned day , the instant the ship left the harbour , the motions of the mercury again took place , and continued , but not always with equal regularity , until the 2nd of July , when the ship again entered Canton river .
During the time the ship continued at Canton , no appearance of the motions here treated of , worth remarking , could be perceived ; but as soon as the ship left the river , on the 13th of September , they again took place , and continued until the 13th of October ; when , upon entering the Strait of Sincapore , they appeared to be diminished , but re-assumed their usual appearance as soon as the ship had passed the narrow part of the strait .
On the 21st of October the ship arrived in the harbour of Prince of Wales 's Island , and a great diminution again took place in the equatropical motions ; but upon leaving the harbour , on the 5th of November , they again returned , and continued , with their usual regularity , until the arrival of the ship at the entrance of Hoogly river , on the 3rd of December .
While the ship continued in the lower part of that river , a slight tendency to the equatropical motions might be perceived ; but up the river , at Diamond harbour , the mercury was nearly stationary the whole twenty-four hours .
On the 13th of January 1804 , after clearing Hoogly river , the equatropical motions again returned , and continued until the arrival of the ship at Bombay , on the 12th of February ; from which day to the 18th , when the journal ceases , no signs of the above motions could be perceived .

