282 The Colour Sensations in Terms of Luminosity .
' " The Colour Sensations in Terms of Luminosity .
" By Captain W. de W. Abney , C.B. , D.C.L. , E.B.S. Received February 23 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) This paper deals with a determination of the colour sensations based on the Young theory by means of measures of the luminosity of the three different colour components in a mixed light which matches white .
At the red end of the spectrum there is only one colour extending to near C , and there is no mixture of other colours which will match it , however selected .
At the violet end of the spectrum , from the extreme violet to near G , the same homogeneity of light exists , but it is apparently due to the stimulation of two sensations , a red and a blue sensation , the latter never being felt unmixed with any other .
Having ascertained this , it remained to find that place in the spectrum where the blue sensation was to be found unmixed with any other sensation except white .
By trial it was found that close to the blue lithium line this was the case , and that a mixture of this colour and pure red sensation gave the violet .of the spectrum when the latter was mixed with a certain quantity of white .
The red and the blue sensation being located , it remained to find the green sensation .
The complementary colour to the red in the spectrum gave a position in which the green and blue ..sensations were present in the right proportions to make white , and a point nearer the red gave a point in which the red and blue sensations were present in such proportions as found in white , but there was an excess of green sensation .
By preliminary trials this point was found .
The position in the spectrum of the yellow -colour complementary to the violet was also found .
The colour of -bichromate of potash was matched by using a pure red and the last-named green .
To make the match , white had to be added to the bichromate colour .
A certain small percentage of white was found to exist in the light transmitted through a bichromate solution with which the match was made , and this percentage and the added white being deducted from the green used , gave the luminosity of the pure green sensation existing in the spectrum colour which matched the bichromate .
Knowing the percentage composition in luminosity of the two sensations at this point , the luminosity of the three sensations in white was determined by matching the bichromate colour with the yellow ( complementary to the violet ) and the pure red colour sensation .
From this equation and from the sensation equation of the bichromate colour already found , the composition of the yellow was determined .
By matching white with a mixture of the yellow and the The Conductivity of Heat 283 violet , the sensation equation to white was determined .
The other colours of the spectrum were then used in forming white , and from their luminosity equations their percentage composition in sensations were calculated .
The percentage curves are shown .
The results so obtained were applied to various spectrum luminosity curves , and the sensation curves obtained .
The areas of these curves were found , and the ordinates of the green and violet curves increased , so that both their areas were respectively equal to that of the red .
This gave three new curves in which the sensations to form white were shown by equal ordinates .
A comparison of the points in the spectrum where the curves cut one another , and of those found by the red and green blind as matching white , show that the two sets are identical , as they should be .
The curves of Koenig , drawn on the same supposition , are called attention to , and the difference between his and the new determination pointed out .
The red below the red lithium line , as already pointed out , excites but one ( the red ) sensation , whilst the green sensation is felt in greatest purity at A 5140 , and the blue at A 4580 , as at these points they are mixed only with the sensation of white , the white being of that whiteness which is seen outside the colour fields .
" The Conductivity of Heat Insulators .
" By C. G. Lamb , M.A. , B.Sc. , and W. G. Wilson , B.A. Communicated by Professor Ewing , F.B.S. Keceived May 3 , \#151 ; Bead June 15 , 1899 .
The comparative efficiency of materials used as insulators has been the subject of several investigations ; the majority of these have been conducted at fairly high temperatures , and it may be questioned whether the results can be applied to the same materials when used as a lagging to protect bodies at low temperatures .
Moreover the methods adopted do not seem susceptible of any considerable accuracy .
The method to be described was devised with the object of using lower temperatures and smaller ranges than had been used in previous experiments , to attain a perfectly steady state of heat transference , and allow of greater accuracy and simplicity in the measurements .
The substances selected for experiment so far have been those which could easily be tested in the dry state , without being made up into cements ; they include air , sawdust , charcoal , pine shavings , paper , asbestos , sand , silicate cotton , hair felt , rice husks , and a heat insulator known as " kapok .
" The method employed consisted in placing the material under test in the space between two cylindrical copper pots , kept at a definite distance apart by pieces of vulcanised fibre ; the inner pot contained a small

