]\gt ; 1889 .
] Mr. J. Joly .
On the Steam Calorimeter . .
' On the Steam Calorimeter By J. JoLy , .
Comml nicated by G. F. FITZGERALD , F.R.S. , F.T.C.D. Received November 26 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) The theory of the method of condensation has been previously given by the author in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' vol. 41 , p. 352 .
Since the publication of that paper a much more extended knowledge of the capabilities of the method has been acquired , which has led to the construction of new forms of the apparatus , simple in construction and easily applied .
Two of these are described and illustrated , one of which is new in principle , being a differential form of ) calorimeter .
The accuracy of observation attained by this latter form is so COIlsiderable that it has been found possible to estimate directly the specific heats of the gases at constant volume to a close degree of accuracy .
An error incidental to the use of the method arising from the adiation of the substance , when surrounded by steam , to the walls of the calorimeter , is inquired into .
lt is shown that this affe the accuracy of the result to a very small degree , and is capable of easy estimation and elimination .
Further ) of the truth of the method is afforded in a comparison of experiments made in different forms of the steam calorimeter .
Various tables of constants are given to facilitate the use of the method , and the results of experiments on the density of saturated steam at atmospheric pressures , made directly in the , are included .
These are concordant with the deductions of Zeuner , based on RegnauIt 's observations on ths properties of steam , and were undertaken in the hope of afEording reliable data on which to calculate the displacement effect on the apparent weight of the substance transferred from air to steam .
communication is inteuded to provide a full account of the mode of application of the steam calorimeter .
VI .
On the Extension and Flexure of Cylindrical and Spherical Elastic Shells By A. B. BASSET , M.A. , F.R.S. Received December 9 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) The usual theory of thin elastic shells is based npon the bypothesis that the three stresses , may be treated as zero , where is the 46 Mr. A. B. Basset .
On the Extension and Flexnre [ Dec. 19 , normal traction pendicular to the middle surface , and and are the two shearing stresses which tend to produce rotation about two lines of curvature of the middle surface .
This hypothesis requires that these stresses should be at least of the order of the square of the thickness of the shell , for when this is ths case they give rise to terms in the expression for the potential energy due to strain , which are proportional to the fifth power of the thickness , and which may be neglected , since it is usually unnecessary to retain powers of the thickness higher the cube .
It can be proved directly from the general equations of motion of au elastic solid , that this proposition is true in the case of a plane plate , provided the surfaces of the plate are not subjected to any pressures or tangential stresses , but there does .
not appear to be any simple method of iShing a similar proposition in the case of curved shells .
I have therefore adopted this proposition as a fundamental hypothesis , and have endeavoured to establish its and to obtain a satisfactory theory of cylindrical and spherical shells in the manner:\mdash ; Taking the case of a cylindrical shell , let OADB be a curvilinear rectangle described on the middle surface , of which the sides OA , BD are generators , and the sides AD , OB are circular sections .
The resultant stresses per unit of length across the section AD consist of ( 1 ) a tension , ; ( 2 ) a hearing stress , ; ( 3 ) a normal shearing stress , ; ( 4 ) a flexural couple , , about AD ; 5 ) torsional couple , perpendicular to AD ; and the stresses across BD may be derived by interchanging the suffixes 1 and 2 .
Resolving along OA , OB , and the normal , and taking moments about these lines , we obtain the foIlowing equations , .
:\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( f ) , * Compare Besant , " " On the Equilibrium of a Bent Lamina ' Quart .
Journ. Math 1860 .
1889 .
] of Cylindrical and Spherical Thin Elasiic Shells .
47 where denote certain expressions involving the bodily forces , such as gravity and the like , and the time variations of the displacements .
The values of the four couples may bs calculated by a method , and are ( ) .
To explain the symbols involved these equations , let be the displacements along OA , OB , and the normal ; .the extensional and shearing strains along and about these respectively ; then putting Fi , the symbols in ( ii ) are defined by the following equations:\mdash ; ( iii ) .
It is important to notice that the couples involve the nsion of the middle surface as well as the change of curvature .
The expression for the energy is next found , and its value per unit of area of the middle surface is .
( iv ) .
The quantities , depend } upon quantities which define the bending , and partly upon the extension of the middle surface .
This expression is different from that obtained by Mr. Love , which arises from the fact that he has omitted to take into account several terms dopending upon the product of the extensio and .
It will be noticed that ( iv ) reduces to the second line when the middle surface is inextensible , and in this case agrees with the expression by Lord Rayleigh .
* * ' .
Soc. Proc Dec. , 1888 .
48 ion and of Thin Elastic Shells .
[ Dec. 19 , The variational equation of motion may be written . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( v ) here is the term depending on the time variations of the displacements , is the work done by the bodily forces , and is the work done upon the edges of the portion of the shell considered , by the stresses arising from the action of contiguous portions of the shell .
Applying ( v ) to a curvilinear rectangle bounded by four lines of curvature , and working out the variation in the usual way , the integral part will determine the values of the edge stresses .
, in terms of the displacements , and ought also to reproduce the values of the couples which we have eady obtained ; and the surface integral part will give the three equations of motion in terms of the displacements .
These results furnish a test of the correctness of the work , and also of the hypothesis upon which the theory is based ; for if we substitute the values of the edge stresses in terms of the displacelnents in the first th ree of ( i ) , we ought to reproduce the equations of motion which we have obtained by means of the variational equation ; and this is found to be the case .
The boundary conditions can be obtained by Stokes ' theorem , which enables us to that it is possible to apply a certain distribution of stress bo the edge of a thin shell , wibhout producing any alteration in the potential energy to strain .
general equations , owing to their exceedingly complicated character , do not , except in special cases , readily lend themselves to the solution of mathematical problems ; , for the purpose of throwing some light upon the question raised by Mr. Love , as to the impossibility of satisfying the boundary conditions at a free edge , when a curved shell is vibrating in such a manner that its surface experiences no extension nor contraction throug.hout the motion , I have considered the following statical problem:\mdash ; A heavy shell , whose cross sechon is a is susby vertical bands attached to its edges , so that its axis is horizontal , deformed by its own ; required the strain produced .
We sball assume that the displacement at every point of the middle surface lies in a plane perpendicular to the axis , and we shall suppose that the necessary stresses are applied to the circular edges .
Measuring from the lowest point and putting for the change of curvature aIong a circular section , we find that Since is small compared with , this equation shows that the 1889 .
] Presents .
change of curvature is large in comparison with the extension , except at in the neighbourhood of the edge , where is comparable wibh It is also shown that the tension parallel to the ax is , and the couple about a circular section do not vanish at the circular edges , but have values ; and therefore a tensiotl and a couple of the .
amount , which tends to produce synclastic cnrvature of the generating ] ines must be })plied at the circular edges .
If , therefore , this force and coupls were removed , anticlastic curvature of the generating lines would be pro uced , and this would extension of middle surface parallel to the axis .
It is , however , obvious tl1at a thin shell , under these circumstances , does not assume a saddleform , and therefore the anticlastio curvature , and the extension npon which it depends , must be exceedingly small ] , except in the neighbourhood of the circular edges .
The difficulty fying the boundary conditions at a curved free edge , wheu the middle surfacc is sllpposed to be inextensible , rises from the fact that it is ible for the flexural couple about the curved edge to vanish , unless some extension or contraction takes place in the bourhood of the edge ; but the inference to be from } statical prol ) considered above is , that when a thin shell , whose edges are free , is ting , the amplitudcs of those terms upon which the ension deper ) small comparison with the amplitudes of those terms upon which the bending depends .
Moreover , a variety of results which have been obtained cent years indicate , that the pitch notes which depend upon extension is very , compared with tbo pitch of notes which depend upon flexure ; and this ( .
, ircumf , tance , combined with the of the of the exknsional vibrations , points to the conclusion that the notes are usually feeble in comparison with the lattcr .
Tho values of the edge stresses and the equations of motion also obtained for a spherical sbell , but the work is the same as in the case of a cylindrical shell , except in matters of debail .
The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 9th , 1890 .
Presents , December 19 , 1889 .
nSaCtioIis .
HaJle :\mdash ; Verein fur Erdkunde .
Mitteilungen .
1889 . .
Halle 1889 .
The Verein .
gfors :\mdash ; Finska Vetenskaps-Socjetet .
} forsioe 1 Ofversigt , 1887-88 .
fors 1888 .
The Society .
VOL. XLVII .
:

