" On the relative attractions of Sulphuric Acid for water , under particular circumstances : with suggestions of means of improving the ordinary process of manufacturing Sulphuric Acid .
" By Henry Hugh Watson , Esq. , Corresponding Member of the Manchester Philosophical Society .
Communicated by John Dalton , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The object of the inquiry detailed in the present paper is to determine at what degree of concentration the affinity of sulphuric acid for aqueous vapour is equal to that of anhydrous space for the same vapour at given temperatures .
It has long been known that concentrated sulphuric acid abstracts moisture from the atmosphere , but the amount and the rate of this absorption have never been as ?
certained with accuracy ; and consequently , in applying this acid to purposes of exsiccation , the experimenter has often been at a loss to know whether the acid was sufficiently strong to render the space in which it was confined perfectly anhydrous .
By placing portions of the acid , previously weighed , and diluted with known quantities of water , under the receiver of an air-pump , with equal portions of concentrated acid , of the specific gravity 1*8428 , in similar dishes , the author ascertained that the dilute acid could be concentrated to the specific gravity 1*814 , at a temperature varying from 65 ?
to 57 ?
: whence he concludes that acid of such strength is capable of drying a vacuum when the temperature does not exceed 5 7 ? .
By making similar experiments in air , the author compared together the weights lost by ten grains of dilute sulphuric acid of the specific gravity 1*135 , at three different periods of the day for six days , taking note of the dew-point and the temperature ; and infers that when the affinity of space for vapour , or the evaporating force , is equal to 0*15 of an inch of mercury , it is just able to balance the affinity for water of sulphuric acid of the specific gravity 1*249 .
The author next instituted a series of experiments to ascertain whether the evaporation of water from dilute sulphuric acid is capa ?
ble of being carried on to the same extent in air as in vacuo , and found that the evaporating force of air exerted upon such acid is less than that of a vacuum at the same temperature .
He observes that his experiments offer conclusive evidence that the evaporation of water is not owing to the existence of a chemical affinity between the vapour of the liquid and atmospheric air ; but thinks that they favour the notion that the obstruction to this process in the open atmosphere is rather owing to the pressure than to the vis inertice of the particles of air .
He is also of opinion that improvements will hereafter arise from this inquiry with regard to the economical management of the process of manufacturing sulphuric acid , which process would be greatly expedited by the regulated admission of steam into the condensing chambers kept at a constant high temperature .

