1872 .
] On Heterogenetic Modes of Origin of Infusoria 239 base .
As dibenzylphosphine yields no compounds , I was limited to the analysis of the body itself .
This analysis led to the formula\#151 ; C14H15P .
The formation of dibenzylphosphine takes place according to the equation\#151 ; 2C7 H7 CI+H3P.HI + ZnO = ( CT 1IT)2 HP .
HI + ZnCl3+H2 O. Benzylphospliine and dibenzylphosphine are not the only phosphoretted products of the action of benzyl chloride on phosphonium iodide .
The mother-liquor of dibenzylphosphine contains yet another phosphorus body .
The idea naturally suggested itself that it might be tribenzylphosphine ; but , notwithstanding many efforts , I have not succeeded in obtaining this compound .
The mother-liquor of dibenzylphosphine consists , for the greater part , of a viscous substance , soluble in alcohol but insoluble in water , which is precipitated by lead-salts .
This substance tenaciously adheres to a small quantity of a crystallizable body , which most probably is no other than dibenzylphosphine .
All attempts to obtain this glutinous substance ( which appears to possess acid properties ) in a condition fit for analysis have hitherto failed .
In conclusion I may be allowed most warmly to thank Messrs. F. IIo-brecker and E. Mylius for the untiring perseverance with which they have ( the former in the earlier stages , the latter more recently ) assisted me in these researches .
II .
" On some Heterogenetic Modes of Origin of Flagellated Monads , Fungus-germs , and Ciliated Infusoria .
" By H. Charlton Bastian , M.D. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , Professor of Pathological Anatomy in University College , London .
Received February 15 , 1872 .
The " pellicle " that forms on infusions of organic matter which are exposed to the air is composed for the most part of a dense aggregation of Bacteria of various sizes and shapes imbedded in a more or less abundant , pellucid , gelatinous material .
Very frequently there are also a variable number of intermixed Vibriones and more or less characteristic The Bacteria in this layer are mostly placed vertically to the surface , so that an examination of it under the microscope generally reveals the appearance of a stratum densely studded with small though tolerably uniform granules .
On attempting to remove a portion of this pellicle , it is found to constitute a more or less coherent membrane .
It is now a well-known fact that when two or more Amoebae chance to come into close contact with one another , they may fuse so as to constitute a larger individual of the same kind , which afterwards creeps about and seizes food as its component parts had previously done .
Such a process must be classed under the head of Homogenetic Biocrasis ; for , although Prof. H. C. Bastian on Heterogenetic [ Mar. 21 separate living units fuse to form a new individual , the process is one of mere fusion , and the product is similar in kind although necessarily larger than its components .
Similar mutual attractions , however , may be exerted by other living units when brought into close contact with one another , and the result may be the formation of an aggregate in which considerable molecular changes are compelled to take place .
The products resulting from such a fusion may be quite different from the originally fused units ; whilst they will differ at different times according to the precise nature and number of the units which enter into combination .
Such processes are frequently to be observed taking place in various parts of the " proligerous pellicle .
" It is in this way , in fact , that those phenomena occur which make the name " proligerous pellicle " suitable for the scum that forms on organic infusions .
The processes themselves come under the head of Heterogenetic Biocrasis .
The first person who actually described the microscopical appearances characterizing the evolution of higher organisms from the pellicle was M. Pineau .
This he did in 1845 , in a memoir entitled " Recherches sur le Developpement .
des Animalcules Infusoires et des Moisissures " * .
More precision , however , was given to the subject in 1859 , by M. Pouchet , when , in his ' Heterogenie , ' he described the mode of origin of some of the organisms which had formed the objects of Pineau 's investigations as well as of some different organisms .
Although some of these observations have not been recorded with all the details which might have been desired , yet I have satisfied myself that the statements made by Pineau and Pouchet are substantially correct .
The observations of the latter have , moreover , been confirmed by MM .
Jolv and Musset , M. Pennetier , and others .
Nearly two years ago I described in 'Nature ' f the mode of origin of certain corpuscular organisms , and of some Fungus-germs , from differentiated portions of the pellicle of hay-infusions .
These observations I have since repeatedly confirmed ; and I now wish to describe other allied processes , and the means by which I am enabled to obtain , almost at will , either animal or vegetal forms from certain embryonal areas which are produced in the pellicles of similar infusions .
The characters of the pellicles that form on different hay-infusions of the same strength differ notably , according to the temperature of the w'ater with which the infusions have been made ; and , to a less extent , according to the mean atmospheric temperature to which they are subsequently exposed .
If the infusion has been prepared with very hot water ( 140 ' F. and upwards ) , only a thin and somewhat tough pellicle will form , secondary changes will take place in it very slowly , and they will lead only to the * See Ann. des Sc. Nat. ( Zoologie ) , t. iii .
p. 182 and t. iv .
p , 103 .
t 1 Nature , ' 1870 , no. 35 , pp. 172 , 173 .
Modes of Origin of Infusoria 1872 .
] evolution of products of a certain kind .
When prepared with moderately hot water ( 120 ' F. ) , or with cold water ( 60'-70 ' F. ) , the pellicles which are produced become thicker and thicker , and continue for a long time to be soft and pulpy .
The changes that may take place in a pellicle of the latter kind are very varied , and they may give rise to a multiplicity of organic forms .
For a long time my observations were carried on upon infusions made with hot water , and they were also conducted during the winter months , so that the secondary changes which I was able to observe in the pellicle were neither varied nor numerous * .
That which is to follow concerning my own observations has been learned from an investigation of the pellicles which form on filtered hay infusions prepared both with warm and with cold water .
In all cases , and at whatsoever temperature the infusion may have been prepared , the earliest change which takes place in the pellicle is such as I have previously described f. In certain portions of it ( altogether irregular in size , shape , and distribution ) the aggregated Bacteria begin to form around themselves a certain amount of pellucid gelatinous matter , in which they become imbedded .
This change may be well seen in pellicles made with hot water , because such areas continue ( more especially when the atmospheric temperature is low ) for several days without undergoing much alteration .
The Bacteria in them are slightly separated from one another , rather larger in size , and irregularly placed with regard to the direction of their long axis .
Such areas are freely intermixed with other less altered portions in which the Bacteria are densely packed , even smaller than natural , and apparently not separated by any pellucid material .
Any of the modified areas may after a time undergo changes very similar to those which 1 described in 'Nature ' as resulting in the production of fungus-spores .
On the other hand , a totally different fate may occasionally await such modified areas .
Thus , in a strong infusion prepared with water at a temperature of about 120 ' F. , the pellicle was found to be abundant and pulpy ; and on the second day areas of the kind above described were most * During this time I was also working at the subject of Archebiosis , and I had not then ascertained that even in this part of the investigation infusions are more efficacious if prepared with moderately hot ( 120'-130 ' F. ) rather than with very hot water .
They answer better when made with warm water ( at the temperature above named ) than with cold water , because they can thus be obtained in a more concentrated state .
And seeing that in this kind of experiment the fluids have afterwards either to be boiled or otherwise superheated ( before or after closure of the flasks ) , the slight increase in temperature during the preparation of the infusions becomes of less consequence .
But in studying Heterogenesis , and with the view of witnessing all the higher changes which may take place in a pellicle , the organic infusions or macerations must be made with cold , and subsequently filtered , t ' Nature , ' no. 35 , 1870 .
Prof. H. C. Bastian on Heterogenetic [ Mar. 21 marked and numerous* .
The contained Bacteria very soon became notably larger and distinctly loculated\#151 ; each loculus containing two or three granules ; whilst the jelly-like material was so abundant that every -riumf was distinctly isolated from its fellows .
These particular areas were watched for several days , and were not found to have any tendency to undergo segmentation , although myriads of Monads had been formed in adjacent portions of the pellicle , as well as Fungus-germs which had vege-tated into mycelial filaments and bore numerous heads of spores similar to those of a small variety of Penicillium The Bacteria included within these areas seemed to possess too much inherent vigour to lose their own individuality\#151 ; a supposition which was confirmed by their great in-crease in size and subsequent development .
On the fourth and fifth days many were seen which had grown out into minute filaments , resembling what is commonly regarded as Leptothrix , although they also possessed all the characteristics of a miniature fungus-mycelium .
Thus , then , we may have modified areas in which the contained units flourish and grow , whilst still preserving their own individuality ; or we may have pellucid areas , persisting as such for a certain time , whose units at last undergo a process of molecular fusion and regeneration leading to the production of a segmenting embryonal area from which brown Fungus-germs are produced J. And , lastly , there may be pellucid areas which , almost as soon as they are formed , begin to undergo those changes whereby they are converted into true embryonal areas .
Many variations exist in the character of these areas in different cases , some of which I will now attempt to describe , as I have lately had an opportunity of watching all sorts of transitional conditions .
The pellicle which formed on a filtered maceration of hay during frosty weather ( when the temperature of the room in which the infusion was kept was rarely above 55 ' F. , and sometimes rather lower than this ) presented changes of a most instructive character .
On the third and fourth dayrs the pellicle was still thin , although on microscopical examination all portions of it were found to be thickly dotted with embryonal areas .
* The daily atmospheric temperature being about 62 ' F. t The corpuscular appearance of some of these bodies was so marked that they might , perhaps , more appropriately be spoken of as Torulce .
\ During this process the contained Bacteria disappear , and a whitish refractive and homogeneous protoplasm is produced in the place of the jelly and its contained granules .
If we turn to the account given of the origin of the " germinal membrane " in the ovaol ' higher animals , we may be struck by the similarity of the phenomena .
Muller says ( Baly 's Translation , vol. i. p. 9):\#151 ; " It appears , indeed , that the germinal membrane is formed by the attraction and aggregation of the globules of the yolk ; but all parts developed in this germinal membrane are produced by solution of these globules , and conversion of them into a matter in which no elementary particles can be distinctly recognized , and of which the molecules must at any rate be beyond comparison more minute than the globules of the yolk and germinal membrane .
" The subsequent development of blastodermic cells from this mass also agrees closely with what occurs in our embryonal 18 ?
'2 .
] Modes of Origin of Infusoria fyc .
Nearly all of them were very small ; but a few areas- of medium size were intermixed* .
The smallest were not more than toVo an inch in diameter , and these separated themselves from the pellicle as single corpuscles ; slightly larger areas broke up into two or three corpuscles ; and others , larger still , into 4-10 corpuscles .
In most of these small areas , the corpuscles were formed with scarcely any appreciable alteration in the refractive index of the matter of which they Were composed : this simply became individualized , so that the corpuscles separated from the surrounding pellicle and from their fellows , still presenting all the appearance of being portions of the pellicle , and exhibiting from 4-10 altered Bacteria in their interior .
In some cases the products of segmentation soon developed into actual flagellated Monads in a manner presently to be described ; whilst in others they seemed to remain for a Fig. 1.\#151 ; Simplest Mode of Development of Monads and Fungi from the Pellicle , ( x 1670 .
) ?
, a. First stage of differentiation of separate and aggregated corpuscles . ?
, b. Such corpuscles in more refractive condition , developing into Monads , c , \lt ; ? .
Fully developed Monads .
d. Larger area in first stage of differentiation .
e. Refractive corpuscles which will develop either into Monads or Fungi .
/ , / .
More refractive corpuscles which give birth to mycelial filaments as in ff , and ultimately expand into a form of Penicillium ( h ) .
longer period in the condition of simple motionless corpuscles .
Other solitary corpuscles or small areas began to form in the pellicle in precisely the same manner , though they speedily assumed a highly refractive and homogeneous appearance .
Why some should undergo such a change * In these medium-sized areas segmentation was accompanied by the production of homogeneous and highly refractive protoplasm .
244 Prof. H. C. Bastian on Heterogeneiic [ Mar. 2 ] and not others , seems quite impossible to- say .
One can only assert the fact , and add that these highly refractive ovoid corpuscles were , for the most part , more prone to produce Fungus-germs than Monads .
Many of them soon grew out into dissepimented fungus-filaments , which rapidly assumed the Penicilliummode of growth .
The spores , which were abundantly produced in terminal chaplet-like series , were , however , small , ho-mogeneous , spherical , and colourless .
On several occasions I have seen Monads produced in this way , by direct and immediate separation from the pellicle ; though , as M. Pineau had stated , on other occasions they may be seen to arise in groups , in which they first appear as aggregations of motionless corpuscles .
The solitary mode of origin is that which has been described by M. Pouchet ; and although the details given by him are not very full , so far as they go they are in accordance with my own observations .
M. Pouchet , for instance , describes the flagellum as being closely applied to the body , and motionless for a time .
This I have also found to be the case .
I have , moreover , on one or two occasions , been able to watch all the transitions from the mere motionless corpuscle to the flagellated Monad ; just as , on other occasions , I have watched almost similar corpuscles develope into Fungus-germs .
Sometimes the flagellum is seen attached to corpuscles which still display almost unaltered Bacteria imbedded in their substance : generally , however , the corpuscles which separate from the pellicle in this comparatively unaltered condition , undergo certain slow changes before the flagellum is developed .
The contained Bacteria become more and more indistinct , whilst the general substance of the corpuscle becomes rather more refractive , so as to produce ordinary protoplasm .
Corpuscles about diameter are often very obscurely granular and quite motionless .
They grow , however , and when they have attained the size of 4-0V0 " in diameter they frequently begin to exhibit slow undulating alterations in outline , and tend to assume an ellipsoidal form .
One specimen , in diameter , was seen without a flagellum , but slowly alternating between the spherical and ellipsoidal forms .
Suddenly , at one extremity of the ellipsoid , a series of rapid contractions and protrusions of its substance were observed , and when they ceased , a motionless filament was seen bent around one side of the body .
Three minutes afterwards a vacuole appeared for the first time at the opposite extremity of the ellipsoid .
The corpuscle remained almost motionless for twenty-five minutes , merely exhibiting very slight changes in outline ; alter thirty minutes the first slow bendings of the flagellum were seen ; and after thirty-five minutes the whole organism began to exhibit slow semi-rotations , at intervals of a minute or two .
After forty minutes the movements were pronounced and of a starting character , dependent upon sudden contractions of portions of the body of the organism rather than upon movements of its flagellum .
After fifty-five minutes , the corpuscle unfortunately became hidden , owing to its having floated underneath a portion of the pellicle .
How far the rapidity of the evolution of the 2872 .
] Modes of Origin of Infusoria fyc .
245 flagellum , and its subsequent movements , were impaired by the glare of artificial light to which the organism was subjected , cannot be said .
Certainly , however , the flagellum seems to be thrown out much more rapidly in other cases .
Speaking of simple organisms of this kind , Dr. T. R. Lewis says*:\#151 ; " Frequently a succession of pseudopodia are seen projected in a wave-like manner , as if lashing the fluid .
" And , again , of other similarly active animalcules he says :\#151 ; " Sometimes one flagellum is seen , a posterior one , at others an anterior one also , both being retractile at will ; and another may be darted forth out of any portion of its body .
" Again , where tailed " zoospores " are produced from Algae or from such Fungi as Achlya and Cystopus , they are also evolved most rapidly\#151 ; two hours often sufficing for the entire production of a brood of such flagellated Monads from the segmentation of a mass of formless protoplasm .
Monads , indeed , are frequently produced from the " pellicle " in precisely the same manner as that by which they arise within the terminal chambers of certain Algae or Fungi\#151 ; that is to say , they result from the segmentation of a mass of homogeneous protoplasm + .
The steps of this process I will now describe .
An infusion of hay was made with water at a temperature of about 120 ' F. , and maintained at this heat for three hours .
After filtration , four or five ounces of the fluid were poured into a wide-mouthed bottle , and placed under a small bell-jar .
When the infusion was examined at the expiration of three days , it was found to be quite turbid , and covered by a moderately thick pellicle .
On removing portions of this and submitting it to microscopical examination , the fluid around was found to contain multitudes of very active specimens of Monas lens , having an average length of 3 3Vo " .
The pellicle itself was mostly composed of medium-sized , though here and there were areas , of different dimensions , in which the units had more the appearance of embryo Torulee .
But , contrasting with the very pale fawn-colour of the evenly granular pellicle , there were numerous areas of a whitish colour , refractive , and more or less homogeneous .
These areas differed very much in shape and size ; some were not more than 3 0\ ) o " \gt ; whilst others were as much as in diameter .
Their shape was wholly irregular .
Careful examination with a T1^ , / and a immersion-objective made it easy to recognize such transitions as are depicted in fig. 2 .
As in the instances previously recorded , the first appreciable stage in the formation of an embryonal area in the pellicle was a local increase in the amount of gelatinous material between the units of this portion of the pellicle , so that they became more distinctly separated from one another than in adja- Report on the Microscopic Obiects found in Cholera Evacuations \amp ; c. ( Calcutta , 1870 ) , pp. 26 \amp ; 33 .
T In both cases , also , it happens that the products of segmentation are sometimes motionless and sometimes active units .
VOL. XX .
T Prof. H. C. Bastian on Heterogenetic [ Mar. 21 , cent parts .
Gradually these particles became less sharply defined , and at last scarcely visible , in the midst of a highly refractive protoplasmic mass which began to exhibit traces of segmentation .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Segmentation of Embryonal Areas into Monads .
( xlb/ 0 .
) a. First stage of differentiation .
b. Second stage ; area almost homogeneous and refractive .
c. First traces of segmentation .
d. Segmentation more complete ; units highly refractive .
e. Units less refractive , forming tailless corpuscles .
/ .
Fully developed Monads derived from such corpuscles .
Masses of this kind were seen which had been resolved by such a process of segmentation into a number of spherical corpuscles about diameter .
These were at first highly refractive , though they gradually became rather less so , and revealed the presence of two or three minute granules in their interior .
In other adjacent areas , a number of densely packed , pliant , and slightly larger corpuscles were seen actively pushing against one another .
When they separated they were found to be active ovoid specimens of Monas lens about -g-gW l*1 length , and provided with a vacuole and a rapidly lashing flagellum .
On the fourth day the number of embryonal areas throughout the pellicle had increased , and the specimens of Monas existed in myriads in the infusion .
They were tolerably uniform in size , though some were notably smaller than the average , owing to the fact that they were products of a recent fission , all the stages of which were watched on many occasions* .
On the sixth day many of * It took place mostly in a longitudinal , though occasionally in a transverse direction .
I have never seen the whole process occupy less than twenty minutes .
Modes of Origin of Infusoria fyc .
1872 .
] the Monads had much increased in size , some of the larger of them measuring tsVo *n length* Others had lost their flagellum , and were existing in the form of ovoid or rounded corpuscles , which were motionless , though still provided with a vacuole , and now also with a solid nucleus about 1 o_- " in diameter ( fig. 3 , b , c , d ) .
All stages were seen , between the ovoid corpuscle tHt:'and a much larger Amoeba of the kind just described , which was either motionless or else , at intervals , exhibited slowly evolved and blunt protrusions at its periphery .
In other specimens the most easy and rapid alternations were seen between the shape and mode of locomotion which pertain to Monads and those which are characteristic of Amoebae .
Monads which had been previously in active motion would at times come to a state of rest , develop two or three vacuoles in their interior , and behave in all respects like an Amoeba , save for the presence of the now languidly moving flagellum .
After remaining in this state for a variable time , some of them would just as abruptly cease to display the amoeboid movements , the extra vacuoles would disappear , the shape of the Monad would be resumed , and with it the lashing movements of the flagellum , which again gives rise to the rapidly darting gyrations of the organism .
Whilst in the amoeboid state the changes in shape were moderately rapid ; though two or three organisms were watched , one portion of which remained rounded and apparently attached to the glass , whilst the opposite extremity threw out and retracted comparatively long processes with lightning-like rapidity\#151 ; some of them being filiform , like the ordinary persistent flagellum* .
On the seventh day thousands of the motionless spheroidal Amoebae were seen , which had much increased in size .
They were now as much as i sVo " in diameter , and displayed one or more vacuoles ( fig. 3 , d ) .
Each one contained a distinct nuclear particle , though there was an almost complete absence of granules , the body substance being quite pellucid .
Some organisms of the same kind , though rather smaller , contained the ordinary granules in their interior and also exhibited slow amoeboid movements ; whilst many Monads of the same size and general appearance were seen exhibiting amoeboid changes of form , though they had not yet lost their almost motionless flagellum .
On the eighth day there were myriads of active Amoebae around every portion of the pellicle which was examined ; they were , in fact , at this period , almost as numerous as the Monads .
Great numbers also existed in the spherical motionless condition .
On the ninth day the pellicle began to assume a brownish colour on the surface , owing to the enormous development of minute brown fungus-spores'j* .
Portions of the pellicle were also separating and beginning to shrink , whilst The rapidity with which such processes were emitted was similar to what was noticed at p. 245 .
t Very similar to those represented in fig. 4 , e. Prof. H. C. Bastian on Heterogenetic [ Mar. 21 , many of the spherical Amoebae were undergoing changes destined to result in encystment .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Phases in the Life-history of Monads and Amoebae .
( x !
670 .
) a-d .
Representing the stages by which Monads became converted into Amoebae .
e-h .
Stages by which such Amoebae became encysted .
i-m .
Stages by which other Amoebae became resolved into Bacteria .
On the tenth day , similar though more advanced changes were seen .
Although the majority of the Amoebae were still active and polymorphic , hundreds of them were becoming encysted , and the different stages of the process were quite obvious .
They were these -.\#151 ; The previously spherical Amoeba lost their vacuoles , the granules almost wholly disappeared , and the body generally became slightly refractive , the nucleus being still visible .
After a time the nucleus became invisible , and the whole substance of the organisffi assumed a homogeneous and highly refractive appearance\#151 ; so that when it was examined a little beyond the focal distance it looked almost like an o^ globule .
There was a decided condensation , also , of the outer layer * protoplasm , this being the first trace of the cyst-wall .
Subsequently tat cyst-wall became more and more manifest , whilst the size of the sphere slightly diminished , and assumed a faintly brownish tinge .
From the sflf* fa.ee of the developing cyst there were a number of very short ray-like prO\#187 ; jections ( fig. 3 , g ) .
In the last stage , whilst the cyst-wall became mots developed and the projections more obvious , the whole exterior envelorat assumed a decidedly brown colour , and the contained protoplasmic vasm 1872 .
] Modes of Origin of Infusoria 249 which had again become less refractive , distinctly separated from the cyst-wall* .
As the virtues of this infusion seemed to be getting exhausted , on the same ( tenth ) day I transferred a portion of the pellicle to the surface of a new weak infusion of hay , which had been previously boiled .
On the following day the Monads were found to have increased very much in size , and so also had many of the Amoebae .
Several large ovoid Monads on measurement were found to be as much as T in length ; they had , in fact , become nearly twice as long as the largest of those which had existed in the old infusion .
Five days afterwards ( sixteenth day ) , when another portion of this transferred pellicle was examined , all the Monads were found to have disappeared , with the exception of a few which were in a motionless state , and were apparently about to be converted into Amoebae .
These latter organisms existed in teeming myriads : a portion of them had become encysted , whilst of the rest about one half were active , and the others , though not encysted , were almost motionless and more or less granular .
On further examination , it was found that the granular Amoebae ( fig. 3 , i\#151 ; m ) were organisms in a dying state , and that the contained particles were new living units which gradually developed into Bacteria .
All the stages of this development were to be seen .
Thus there were a considerable number of languid Amoebae which merely displayed a slight increase in the customary number of minute particles situated near or around the nucleus .
There were others in which these minute granules , were more numerous ; and others still , quite motionless and spherical , which were densely packed with minute particles throughout their whole substance\#151 ; these particles being motionless and less than in diameter .
In many of such Amoebae a clear vacuole was still to be seen .
In other organisms the particles had become very slightly larger , whilst the protoplasmic substance in which they had been produced had become fluid , and the particles were to be seen in active movement within the attenuated film constituting the outer layer of the old organism whose nucleus was still visible .
When reduced to this condition , trembling movements of the whole mass were seen , owing to the resultant agitations produced by the contained units .
Soon the attenuated outer membrane gave way , and , when the contained units were liberated , they at once exhibited very active movements of progression , after the fashion of minute Bacteria .
The surrounding fluid was , in fact , crowded with similarly minute and active Bacteria , and with others slightly larger , which had evidently been produced in this manner .
Such was the fate that overtook those Amoebae which lived latest in the * In the course of the next few days myriads of the Amoebae had undergone this ^nd of change , which seems to follow quite naturally as soon as the activity of their vital processes becomes diminished .
It is the extraordinary molecular activity and constant change of shape of the Amoeba which tends to prevent the earlier occurrence ' of this Primary differentiation .
Prof. H. C.Bastian on Heterogenetic [ Mar. 21 , solution .
Changes of an unhealthy nature seemed to have been so suddenly induced that the organisms did not possess sufficient energy even to undergo the process of encystment .
Their own molecular movements ( those which pertain to the ordinary life of the Amcebse ) being so languid , other retro-grade changes were initiated , leading to the birth of new particles through , out their substance .
Bacteria , in fact , were generated by a most typical process of secondary evolution .
The changes which have been thus observed constitute a very remarkable series .
The simplest living units ( Bact ) first swarm in the infusion* ; these become aggregated at the surface so as to form a " proligerous pellicle/ ' in which embryonal areas gradually appear : as a result of segmentation in these embryonal areas , specimens of Monas lens , in diameter , more or less suddenly make their appearance ; they increase in size , occasionally assume an amoeboid appearance for a time , and are ultimately transformed into real Amoebae .
The transition is effected by the loss of the flagellum , the appearance of vacuoles in their interior , and the simultaneous manifestation of polymorphism and a creeping mode of progression ; at the same time a nuclear corpuscle develops in the interior , and the whole animal grows considerably .
At last the Amoebae gradually cease to exhibit their characteristic movements , whilst they become more or less spherical and motionless .
Ultimately a firm bounding membrane is produced , and they pass into the encysted condition , in which , although slightly smaller in size , they constitute spherules xsVo " diameter .
On the removal of some of this pellicle to the surface of a fresh infusion , the Monads and Amoebae greatly increased in size ; all the Monads gradually became converted into Amoebae , and some of these at first went through the ordinary process of encystment , though at last ( on account of some more sudden change in the fluid ) they seemed suddenly to lapse into a morbid state .
They were apparently unable to encyst themselves ; and not being capable of continuing as Amoebae , there sprang up in their interior a teeming progeny of new units { Bacteria ) , the production of which occasioned the final dissolution of the organisms in which they were evolved .
Other changes , however , took place in this same infusion which deserve to be chronicled .
On the sixth day there were seen scattered throughout those portions of the pellicle intervening between the embryonal areas a multitude of solitary spherules , varying in size from mere specks diameter , or less , to bodies in diameter .
They were colourless , quite motionless , and appeared to he solid and almost homogeneous masses of plasma rather than vesicular bodies ( fig. 4 , a ) .
There were merely faint indications of granules in their interior , and no evidence of a differentiated outer membrane .
None of them seemed to be undergoing processes of self-division , * Although .
I do not , in the present communication , touch upon the mode of origin of these simplest living units , this question has been pretty fully considered in my ' Modes of Origin of Lowest Organisms , ' 1871 .
1372.1 Modes of Origin of Infusoria and each appeared to have grown up in the situation in which it was seen* .
These corpuscles gradually became more numerous , on to the tenth day , though they underwent no appreciable change except a slight increase in size .
On the eleventh day , in the portion of the pellicle which had been transferred to the fresh hay-infusion , many of these stationary bodies , like the Monads and active Amoebae , were found to have increased to such an extent as to have doubled their transverse measurement .
They had also developed a distinct nucleus in their interior ( of a ring-like character ) , vacuoles appeared and disappeared at intervals , and at the same time they exhibited slow and slight amoeboid changes in outline ( fig. 4 , g , h , i ) ; they were , in fact , now obviously converted into sluggish Amoebae .
On the seventeenth day many of them were recognized in the pellicle , scattered amongst the already-described encysted Amoebae .
They had again become motionless and slightly contracted in dimensions ; whilst their outer layer was condensed , but not decidedly cyst-like .
Many of the smaller sizes were also seen .
Seven days afterwards ( twenty-fifth day ) , when another portion of the transferred pellicle was examined , it was found to be densely studded throughout with thousands of encysted Amoebae , the great majority of which were of the first variety and were pretty uniform in size and appearance .
But interspersed amongst them were a considerable number of the imperfectly encysted Amoebae , of different sizes ( ) .
Here and there , however , some of them ( now mostly about in diameter ) presented an unusual appearance .
They had assumed a faint brown hue throughout their whole mass , and segmentation had gone on within so as to produce a number of units , whose shape seemed irregular , owing to their being so densely packed ( c ) .
Othermasses were seen in which considerable growth had taken place\#151 ; these being nearly twice the size and irregular in outline ( d)t though still of a faint brown colour , and composed of a mass of densely packed units , which were held together by an almost invisible bounding membrane .
And , lastly , in other places small aggregations of brownish spores were seen ( e ) , which had been liberated by the solution of this very attenuated membrane\#151 ; the separate spores being tolerably thick-walled , bilocular bodies , tgoo " length by 2o0tt * \#153 ; breadth .
An examination on subsequent days showed many other of the amoeboid bodies breaking up in a similar manner into these brownish , biloculated Fungus-germs .
But , strange to say , brown Fungus-germs of an almost similar character had previously presented themselves on the surface of the original infusion , although they had arisen in quite a different manner\#151 ; by a process of Archebiosis .
In the original infusion , when ( on the tenth day ) the Amoebae commenced encysting themselves , portions of the pellicle began to sink to the bottom * These bodies were evidently quite different from Monas and its amoeboid dervatives , all of which shrivelled very much when mounted in glycerine-jelly , though the corpuscles which I have just been describing were not appreciably changed .
252 Prof. H. C. Bastian Heterogenetic [ Mar. 21 , of the vessel .
Three or four days later it was found that the portions of the surface of the fluid which had thus been left uncovered were coated by a delicate , brownish film , which , when examined , displayed appearances Fig. A.\#151 ; Similar Organisms segmenting into brown Fungus-germs or growing into A.mceb.( x 16/ 0 .
) a , a. Motionless corpuscles of various sizes .
b. Similar corpuscles much increased in size , c , d. Segmentation of such corpuscles into brown Fungus-germs .
e. Appearance of germs when liberated .
/ , / .
Germination of almost similar spores .
g , h , i. Gradual conversion of other corpuscles into Amoeba when transferred to another fluid .
similar to what I have elsewhere represented .
An almost invisible and thin gelatinous stratum existed ( a kind of formative membrane ) , in which every intermediate stage could be detected , between the most minute particle and a brownish , thick-walled , biloculated fungus-spore .
The smaller bodies were colourless , solid-looking , and highly refractive ; and they seemed much more like mere dead concretions* than living things .
All were motionless .
Gradually , however , they became less refractive , grew more and more vesicular , and at last assumed a faint brown tint .
Although most of them remained as bilocular bodies , others grew and underwent further segmentation , so as to produce tri- and quadrilocular bodies , or " septate spores .
" During all stages of growth , some of them seemed to undergo an occasional process of fission .
They were watched for many days ; but as the germs displayed no tendency to develop f , some of them were immersed in a little syrup upon a glass slip , protected by a covering glass , and then set aside in a damp , air-tight , developmental chamber .
After about ten days * Such as are represented in fig. 43 of a work about to be published , entitled " The Be-ginnings of Life .
" Other forms , closely allied to Sarcina , appeared in some ammoni tartrate solutions , and are figured in Appendix A of the work above mentioned , t This has been very frequently observed on other occasions ( see p. 255 ) .
1872 .
] Modes of Origin of Infusoria fyc .
the germs were found to have become more colourless , to have budded and multiplied , and in many cases to have formed elegant mycelial filaments , such as are represented in fig. 4 , / , / .
These latter observations are interesting in many respects .
It is remarkable , for instance , that germs of precisely the same appearance should arise after such different methods\#151 ; by origin and growth in a formative membrane in one case , and as the result of the segmentation of a partially encysted Amoeba in another case .
Then , again , it is extremely interesting to find that these parental Amoebae had , to all appearances , arisen by a process of Archebiosis , although at one stage of their development they were almost indistinguishable from other Amoebae seen in the same infusion , which had resulted immediately from the transformation of flagellated Monads , and mediately as products of a process of segmentation occurring in an embryonal area .
So that whether we have to do with Fungus-germs or with Amoebae , their forms are occasionally so intimately associated with the matter from which they have been derived , that similarity may ultimately be met with between organisms whose actual modes of origin have been most diverse .
These amoeboid corpuscles which grew up in the midst of the pellicle were peculiar in many respects .
In their very early stages it was quite impossible to say whether they were going to develop into Fungus-germs or into Amoebae ; ultimately , however , they seemed to lean more towards the latter mode of development , although the activity which they displayed in this phase of their existence was extremely slight .
Finally , we find them , after encystment , undergoing a process of segmentation , by which they give rise to a colony of brown Fungus-germs , in precisely the same manner as that by which the Protomyxa of Haeckel gives origin to flagellated Monads which subsequently assume the characters and mode of locomotion of Amoebae * .
This evidence , in addition to other facts previously known , tends to show that the transition from the Amoeba to the Monad , or the reverse , may be paralleled by a similar interchangeability between the form and mode of growth of an Amoeba and that peculiar to a Fungus ; so that either form may at times result from one and the same living matter when it undergoes internal modifications , with or without being subjected to new conditions .
This position is still further strengthened by the facts which I have now to record .
* Just as Amoebae may arise either by Archebiosis or by segmentation of pre-existing living matter ( in embryonal areas ) , with or without passing through the Monad phase of existence , so may Fungus-spores arise by either of these methods .
There is also much evidence to show that Monads may arise directly by a process of Archebiosis .
They have been found in sealed flasks in which no pellicle was present , even by M. Pasteur , and in some of my experiments with closed flasks ( the details of which have not yet been published ) the Monads that were found must also have had the primary mode of origin .
Some of the new-born specks of living matter which were evolved within one of these closed flasks , previously heated to 270'-275 ' F. , seemed to have grown into Fungus-germs , some into minute Amoebae , and others into active Monads .
Prof. H. C. Bastian on Heterogenetic [ Mar. 21 , A few days after having made the infusion , the changes in which have just been described , I prepared another with a portion of the same sample of hay .
This second infusion , however , was made with water at a temperature of 158 ' F. , which was maintained at this heat for two hours .
After filtration it was placed in a similar vessel , and allowed to stand side by side with the other infusion .
On the third day , embryonal areas of various shapes and sizes were seen in the firm pellicle which had formed upon the surface* .
These areas were distinguished by their whitish , refractive appearance from the slightly fawn-colour of the contiguous unaltered pellicle .
Particles of some kind were obscurely seen within the refractive protoplasm , and on the following day many of the areas , which had increased in number , showed signs of commencing segmentation .
This process went on Fig , 5 , \#151 ; Segmentation of Embryonal Areas into Fungus-germs .
( X 1670 .
) a. First stage of differentiation .
b. Area almost homogeneous and refractive .
c. First stage of segmentation .
d. Area showing more complete segmentation .
e. Area in which homogeneous refractive products are being converted into brownish vesicular Fungus-germs .
/ ?
fj / .
One form of germ in different stages of development .
g , g\ g " .
Another form of germ in different stages of development .
comparatively slowly , and two or three days elapsed before the segmentation was completed .
But at last some of the areas were wholly resolved into a number of colourless , homogeneous , and highly refractive spherules , about in diameter .
Some areas seemed to remain in this condition for two or three days longer , whilst in others the products of segmentation began to undergo change almost before it was completed .
In each case , however , the modification was of the same kind , and consisted in a gradual * The daily temperature being about 60 ' F. 1872 .
] Modes of Origin of Infusoria fyc .
, .
inution [ n the refractiveness of the separated elements , and their Option of a more distinctly vesicular character , whilst they simultaneously acquired a faint brown colour .
They were thus converted into unmistakable Eungus-germs , although they showed very little tendency to germinate ; and it was not until after repeated examination that a few of them were found growing out into filaments such as are represented in the figure Occasionally , in the same pellicle , the embryonal areas broke up into products of a somewhat different character ( fig. 5 g " ) .
The segments were slightly larger , whilst they gradually assumed a deeper brown colour and a more compound character .
These elements also grew at this stage , and underwent processes of division after the fashion of Lichen-gonidia , and in a manner similar to what I had observed on a previous occasion* .
These germs also exhibited very little tendency to germinate , though on one or two occasions they were seen to have grown out into short chain-like filaments , such as are represented in fig. 5 g ' .
During all the period in which the embryonal areas were breaking up into these corpuscles , which soon assumed the form of brown Fungus-germs , not a single Monad or Amoeba was to be seen in the solution ; and yet it had been standing during the whole time side by side with the other infusion which was prepared at a temperature of 120'\#151 ; 125 ' F. Facts of this kind have been observed on several other occasions with great constancy ; so that one may safely state that Fungus-germs or Monads and Amoebae may be procured at will , by simply regulating the amount of heat at which the infusion is prepared .
The Monad and the Amoeba represent more highly animalized modes of existence , which are only able to manifest themselves in infusions in which the organic matter has not been too much deteriorated by the influence of heat .
Such deterioration seems to manifest itself by altering the developmental potentialities of the primary forms of living matter evolved in the infusion f. Experience has shown me that , if an infusion has been heated for a time to 212 ' F. , the pellicle which forms on its surface very frequently never gives rise to an embryonal area .
If the infusion has been prepared at a temperature of 149'-158 ' F. , the embryonal areas which form will give origin * See ' Nature , ' 1870 , no. 35 , p. 173 .
fig. 3 .
t Seeing that the Monads and the Fungus-germs are produced , not from invisible germs , but from the segmentation of large embryonal areas , every stage of whose formation can be accurately traced , this seems the only possible explanation .
If the opponent of Evolution contends , in answer to one set of experiments with heated fluids and closed flasks , that Monads are met with because their germs are capable of resisting a temperature of 275 ' F. , he cannot now contradict himself by saying that embryonal areas , formed on infusions which have been prepared at a temperature of 158 ' E. , do not yield Monads because such a temperature is destructive to their germs .
Neither is it open to him to Bay that Fungus-germs ( derived from embryonal areas ) do not appear in infusions prepared at 212 ' F. because such heat is destructive to them , when at the same time he vehemently contends , in answer to other experiments , that similar Fungus-germs are not hindered from developing after exposure to such a temperature , or to others which are Bauch higher .
Prof. II .
C. Bastian Heterogenetic [ Mar. %\ to Fungus-germs ; whilst in a similar infusion prepared at 120'-130 ' F. , the embryonal areas , which seem at first to be in all respects similar , break up into actively-moving Monads .
It remains for us to see what changes may take place in the pellicle that forms on an infusion or maceration pre .
pared with cold water ( 60'\#151 ; 70 ' F. ) .
Before passing to a description of these phenomena , however , I will describe the mode of origin of the embryos of some organism whose real nature is unknown , the final stages of its development not having been traced .
So far as they were seen , the stages were of a very positive character .
I have observed these early stages in two different infusions ; but in each case , after a certain stage of development had been achieved , no further progress seemed to be made for about two days ; and then the pellicle unfortunately broke up and sank to the bottom .
The arrest of development may therefore have been due in both cases to some morbid quality of the pellicle itself .
These organisms were observed in the middle of the month of April ( 1869 ) , in an infusion of turnip-leaves , which had been prepared fourteen days previously .
All stages of development could be seen in different parts of the pellicle .
The new organism first manifested itself by the presence ( in a uniformly granular layer ) of an aggregation of 8-20 larger and more refractive particles ; these were then gradually marked off from the surrounding granules by a thin but distinct bounding line , whilst the contained granules increased in size .
At a later stage the containing sphere Fig. 6.\#151 ; Mode of Origin and Development of an Embryo of uncertain nature .
( X 800 .
) was seen to have grown larger ( fig. 6 , ) , and the granules had assumed a crescentic arrangement ; whilst on their concave side there was a tolerably large refractive globule , about ydiameter , which exhibited the most distinct oscillations and more or less extensive to-and-fro movements in the otherwise clear central space .
In other specimens this central spherule had become even larger , and the granules had closed round it more equally , so as to leave a broad space between the central mass and the thin walls of the containing sphere ( d ) .
The measurements in this stage were found to be as follows :\#151 ; containing sphere central nuclearlike body x'COTTO " " , aRd surrounding mass of granules diameter .
Afterwards the central nuclear-like body and the granular mass seemed to become lighter in colour , \#151 ; the former still exhibiting its slow oscillating movements ; whilst the latter had much increased in size , so as more nearly 3.872.1 Modes 'f Origin of Infusoria $c .
t fill the delicate cvst in which it was contained .
Then the outlines of the embryo gradually became more defined ; three or four other , rather large granules appeared in the neighbourhood of the nucleus ; and one crescentic portion of the embryo-mass presented a smooth , glistening , and homogeneous appearance .
No later stages were traced ; and though no movements of the embryo as a whole were seen ( only movements of the nucleus ) , there could not be the shadow of a doubt that these bodies represented organisms of some kind , which were developing , not from ova , but by means of changes taking place in the very elements of the pellicle itself .
The intermediate connecting links between Flagellated Monads on the one hand , and such Ciliated Infusoria as and on the other , are undoubtedly such forms as those which were included by Duiardin in his genus Enchelys .
They are scarcely larger than many Monads ; they possess the same simple structure , having no trace of an oral aperture , though , like the Monads , they display an internal vacuole , and like them also they may or may not possess a simple nuclear particle .
They present the same variations in form which are to be met with amongst Monads ; and they differ from them only by the presence of vibratile cilia over most of their body , instead of the possession of a single flagellum .
They are , moreover , not unfrequently met with in large numbers in situations in which Monads abound .
^ Pineau says he has watched the development of organisms of this kind in a pellicle which formed on an infusion of isinglass .
The first stages were altogether similar to those which he has described as having taken place in the evolution of Monas lens* .
Corpuscles were seen to separate from the embryonic aggregations without a flagellum , though they continued to increase in size , and soon developed a vacuole and nuclear particle in their interior .
As they enlarged , they gradually assumed an oval form , though still remaining motionless and devoid of cilia .
At last , with very little further increase in size , cilia were developed^ , and the organisms gradually displayed the appearance and locomotory powers which have been attributed by Dujardin to the form which he named Enchelys ovata % .
The organisms previously mentioned have nearly all been minute ; and it has therefore been somewhat difficult to trace their early stages .
These difficulties , however , gradually vanish when we come to the investigation * Ann. des Sc. Not .
1845 ( Zool. ) , p. 183 .
t The apparition of cilia is known to be quite sudden in the development of the spore of Vaucheria , and also to be sudden during the development of some Infusoria , as Cienkowski and others have observed .
t To another similar solution of isinglass M. Pineau , mindful of the results recor e by Dutrochet , added a few drops of vinegar ; and he says:\#151 ; " II no s y d\amp ; veloppa un seul animalcule : mais en revanche elle se couvrit , comme je m'y attendais , dun foret de moisissures .
" Prof. H. C. Bastian on [ Mar. 2 ] , of the mode of origin of such larger organisms as Paramecium and Kolpoda .
Although their most remarkable mode of origin was fully described and figured by M. Pouchet more than twelve years ago , yet , unfortunately , many of our leading biologists have preferred to repudiate his statements and rely upon their own notions concerning credibility and the mode in which living matter ought to conduct itself , rather than adequately investigate the subject for themselves .
According to Pouchet , the stages in the evolution of Paramecium were as follows The pellicle , which was at first uniform and evenly graFig .
7.\#151 ; Mode of Origin of Paramecia from the Pellicle : after Pouchet .
( x 400 .
) " nular , after a short time changed in aspect here and there , owing to a concentration of its granules at tolerably equal distances into small , more or less rounded aggregations , which soon became surrounded and defined by a clear border , suggestive of a resemblance to the zona of higher animals .
The next change which took place was , that the granules , which had been at first more densely aggregated towards the centre , disseminated themselves uniformly through the ovum , whilst at the same time the simple clear zone thickened into a distinct membrane .
At this stage the whole egg appeared somewhat lighter and more transparent than the surrounding pellicle .
Soon after this , differentiation still proceeding , the mass of enclosed granules gradually became converted into a real embryo , which manifested its existence by slow movements\#151 ; at first by simple oscillations in the mass of granules , and afterwards by regular uniform movements of revolution of the whole contents within its enveloping membrane , similar to those of many other embryos .
The slightest shock at this stage immediately arrested the gyration .
Then , after a time , a pale spot appeared 1872 .
] Modes of Origin of Infusoria Sc. amongst the granules in some part of the embryo , the alternate contraction a , d dilatation of which soon showed that it was the contractile vesicle of the infusorium .
After a time the embryo began to exhibit movements of quite a different kind ( sudden and irregular ) , no longer checked , but rather increased by slight shocks from without .
In one of these sudden plunges the thin enveloping membrane was ruptured , and there entered into the aquatic world a free-swimming and ciliated infusorial animalcule having the characteristics of the species above mentioned .
Such is the marvellous story ; and the description of other observers is substantially similar .
In the particular observation of which M. Pouchet gives the details * , the first rudiments of the eggs began to make their appearance in the pellicle of an infusion of hay on the second day ; on the third day the ovules were distinctly circumscribed , spherical , and in diameter ; on the fourth day there was no increase of size , the investing membrane could scarcely be recognized\#151 ; although there was a distinct gyration of the embryo within it , and in those which were most advanced the contractile vesicle could already be discovered ; on the fifth day the embryos were found to be of the same size , though slightly greenish in colour , and their movements were more irregular and jerking .
At this stage the animalcule had assumed a pyriform shape , fine cilia could be seen on some parts of its surface , and the contractile vesicle was most obvious in the midst of minute and densely packed greenish granules .
After a few hours more , the buccal cleft , fringed with longer cilia , became obvious , and also the so-called nucleus in the centre of the body .
The embryos had by this time somew'hat increased in size , so that , after an interval of a few more hours , fully developed specimens of Paramecium viride , in diameter , were swimming about in the solution .
These observations of M. Pouchet have been repeated by him over and over again .
He has thus seen different forms of Paramecium arise in the pellicle ; and at other times , by steps essentially similar , have made their appearance .
The difference between these two forms is indeed quite trivial and unimportant , and wholly unworthy , even from the old point of view , of being regarded as a generic mark of distinction .
These observations of M. Pouchet have been confirmed by MM .
Joly and Musset , M. Pennetier , and others .
The former observers declaref that they have watched the evolution of specimens of Kolpoda cucullus in a pellicle that formed on water in which the contents of a hen 's egg were allowed to macerate .
In this pellicle there appeared , as they say , en virtue d'une sort de cristallisation vitale , " the spherical masses of granules constituting " les oeufs spontanes " of Pouchet ; and these in their turn , after a period in which the usual rotation of the embryos within the egg-membrane was observed , gave origin to specimens of the organism above mentioned .
On the removal of the first pellicle , it was succeeded by another , in which similar developmental phenomena were repeated .
' IltHih'ogenic , ' p. 394 .
t See Count .
Rend .
1860 , t. li .
p.934 .
Prof. H. C. Bastian on Heterogenetic [ Mar. 21 , I have also myself , quite recently , watched with the greatest interest all the stages of such a process , terminating in the evolution of fine speci-mens of Paramecium , and am most pleased to be able to bear my testimony to the general accuracy of M. Pouchet 's description .
Up to this period I had never seen a single Paramecium or other specimen of the larger ciliated Infusoria in any of my hay-infusions , these having all been prepared either with warm or with hot water .
But about ten days previously , on rereading M. Pouchet 's description of the mode of evolution of these organisms , it struck me that I had failed to see these phenomena , owing to my never having made any infusions with cold water .
I therefore at once prepared such a maceration , and two or three days afterwards wrote to M. Pouchet on the subject .
In the reply which he was kind enough to address to me , he said:\#151 ; " Jamais , jamais vous ne renconterez un seul infusoire cilie dans une experience faite a l'eau chaude ... . .
11 faut pour cela operer sur des macerations faites a froid ; alors vous obtiendrez facile-ment le phenomene de developpement des oeufs spontanes des Paramecies , dans les membranes proligeres qui se seront formees d'abord"* .
On the evening of the day on which I received this letter , I again examined the thick pellicle which had formed on the maceration of hay ; and , much to my delight , I found it studded with thousands of embryo Paramecia , whilst others were free and active in the infusion .
It was , therefore , a most significant fact that they should have been met with on the very first occasion that a cold maceration had been employed ' ] ' ; whilst not a single Paramecium had ever been seen before in any of the many hay-infusions kept in the same placet , although several of them had even been made with water whose temperature was not more than 125'-130'F.\#151 ; and , therefore , not high enough to have killed any embryos which might have chanced to preexist in the infusion previously to its filtration .
The maceration was at the time covered by a thick pellicle , which had become brown on its upper surface .
Its under layers , however , were still soft and pulpy .
When a small portion of it was transferred to a microscope-slip , and gently compressed by the covering-glass so as to flatten it out into a thinner layer , the granular membrane was observed to be pretty * M. Pouchet has been in the habit of using one part by weight of ordinary dry hay to about forty parts of water , and then allowing the maceration to stand for two or three hours before filtering off the clear liquid .
t Owing to the coldness of the weather ( the daily temperature of the room being scarcely above 60 ' F. ) , they did not make their appearance in the pellicle till more than fourteen days , although with a daily temperature of 75 ' F. they are said by M. Pouchet to begin to make their appearance on the third or fourth day .
I had examined the pellicle of my maceration from time to time during the first week , but did not look at it subsequently for several days\#151 ; not , in fact , until the day on which I received M. Pouchet 's letter .
During the first week the pellicle had become very thick and pulpy\gt ; but , the weather being rather colder at this time , it was principally giving birth to various kinds of Fungus-germs .
| Beneath a bell-jar in my study .
Modes of Origin of Infusoria fyc .
1872 .
] thickly studded with the most distinct egg-like bodies , varying in size from \#151 ; siu"diameter .
What struck me more than any thing was the extreme distinctness with which almost all the phenomena described by M. Pouchet were to be seen .
There could be little room for doubt with such objects before one .
The only difficulty was to make out exactly what was the nature of the first change by which the egg-like body became differentiated from the surrounding substance of the pellicle .
I laboured under some disadvantages from having to examine an old and somewhat opaque pellicle ; but after the most careful and repeated observations with reference to this point , I have been led to adopt an opinion slightly different from that of M. Pouchet .
Instead of small concentrations of granules occurring which gradually increased in size and at last became enclosed by a bounding membrane , it seemed to me that the differentiation took place after a manner essentially similar to that by which an ordinary " embryonal area " is formed* .
The small embryos did not appear to represent the earlier stages of large embryos ; and it seemed rather that spherical masses of the pellicle of different sizes began to undergo molecular changes , which terminated in the production of Paramecia of a correspondingly different bulk .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Mode of Origin of Paramecia .
( X-800 .
) First stage of differentiation .
o. Later stage , in which a vacuole has appeared . .
Similar stage of much larger embryo . .
Another embryo , which has segmented into four ( only three parts visible ) .
c. Later stage : embryo filled with large particles and revolving within its cyst . .
Paramecium after it emerges from its cyst .
e ' Nassula-like form into which many afterwards passed .
th ' f1 '^'er hand , the embryos of unknown organisms which were seen to form in U8^0n Lirnip-leaves did seem to develop in a manner remarkably similar to the ryos Parameciumviride , as described by M. Pouchet .
XX .
* tt 2Q2 Prof. H. C. Bastian on Heterogenetic [ Mar. 2l ; 1 Just as in the previously described embryonal areas masses of different 1 sizes began to exhibit signs of change , so also here spherical portions of the pellicle , differing within the limits above mentioned , began to undergo j other heterogenetic changes .
This was first indicated by an increased re-fractiveness of the area ( especially when seen a little beyond the focal j distance ) ; and almost simultaneously a condensation of its outer layer appeared to take place , whereby the outline became sharply and evenly de-fined* .
At this stage an actual membrane was scarcely appreciable , and the substance of the embryo ( when examined at the right focal distance ) scarcely differed in appearance from the granular pellicle of which it pre .
viously formed part .
JH So far as it could be ascertained , the individual embryos did not increase in size , although they went through the following series of developmental changes .
The contained matter became rather more refractive , and the number of granules within diminished considerably , whilst new particles after a time seemed gradually to appear in what was now a mass of contractile protoplasm .
These new particles were at first sparingly scattered , though as they were evolved they continued to grow into biscuit-shaped bodies , which sometimes attained the size of yutyoTT .
All sizes were distinguishable and many of them moved slowly amongst one another , owing to the irregular contractions of the semifluid protoplasm in which they were imbedded .
Gradually the number of homogeneous biscuit-shaped particles increased , and at last a large vacuole slowly appeared in some portion of the embryo ( fig. 8 , b ) ; it lasted for about half a minute , disappeared , and then , after a similar interval , slowly reappeared .
Much irregularity , however , was observed in this respect .
The next change that occurred was the complete separation of the embryo from the cyst which it filled , and the commencement of slow axial rotations .
These rotations gradually became more rapid , though they were not always in one direction .
The embryo became more and more densely filled with the large biscuit-shaped particles ( c ) ; and at last the presence of cilia could be distinctly recognized on one portion of the revolving embryo .
Then , as M. Poucbet stated , the movements grew more and more irregular and impulsive , so that after a time the thin wall of the cyst was ruptured , and the embryo emerged as a ciliated and somewhat pear-shaped sac provided with a large contractile vesicle at its posterior extremity .
Sometimes the embryo-mass at an early stage of its evolution divided into two or four bodies , each of which developed within the cyst into a perfect embryo ; and in place of exhibiting a regular rotation , they rolled and tumbled over one another in the most irregular manner .
On one occasion I saw a cyst containing two embryos and four spherical Monads about in diameter , the latter having apparently resulted from the * The first changes seem to take place rather rapidly , judging from the great di culty of recognizing the earlier stages .
It was almost impossible to find an area whi\#174 ; 1 was not already bounded by a delicate outer layer .
1872 .
] Modes of Origin of Infusoria fyc .
fission of some smaller portion of the embryo-mass .
Sometimes it was the largest embryos which were observed to undergo this process of fission , though the phenomenon was by no means confined to them * .
On emerging from the cyst , all the embryos , although differing somewhat in size , were of the same shape .
This closely corresponded with the description given of Paramecium kolpoda in Pritchard 's ' Infusoria , ' namely : __ " Ovate , slightly compressed ; ends obtuse , the anterior attenuated and slightly bent like a hook .
" Cilia existed over the whole body , though they were largest and most numerous about the anterior extremity .
No trace of an act ual buccal cleft could be detected ; and ( except in the posterior portion of the body , where a large and very persistent vacuole was situated ) the organism was everywhere densely packed with the large , homogeneous , biscuit-shaped particles .
For many days these most active Infusoria seemed to undergo little change , though afterwards the number of the contained particles gradually began to diminish , whilst the body became more and more regularly ovoid , and a faint appearance of longitudinal striation manifested itself , more especially over its anterior half .
At the same time a very faint and almost imperceptible mass ( " nucleus " ) began to appear near the centre of the organism ; and when examined with a magnifying power of 1G/ 0 diameters , a lateral aperture ( mouth ) in diameter was seen , which was fringed by short active cilia , arranged like the spokes of a wheel .
These peculiarities correspond very closely with those of an embryo Nassula .
Very many were seen with similar characters ; and multitudes existed in all conditions intermediate between this stage and that of the simpler organism which first emerged from the cyst .
No further stages , however , could be watched , as at this time some change took place in the infusion which proved fatal to all the free Infusoria and also to the multitudes of embryos which were at the time developing in the pellicle ; these became more minutely granular and opaque , their movements ceased , and the cyst-wall grew thicker .
This phase of development disappeared , therefore , almost as suddenly and mysteriously as it had appeared .
The cysts were examined from time to time for many weeks afterwards , but they seemed to undergo no further change f. It will , of course , be seen that the phenomena which I have described Partial desiccation has a strong tendency to induce such fission , as I found by the requency with which it occurred when the water had in great part evaporated from specimens placed in a developmental chamber .
Fission of Pe ?
iicillium-fil\amp ; ment8 ( into 0m ia ) , and also of encysted Euglence , have several times been seen under similar circumstances .
ii of Jeuy ot the simplest description\#151 ; too large to move as a whole , though fluxes direction*,118 ^ seTn^duid body-substance were continually taking place in different Presents .
204 Presents .
[ Mar. 7 , as taking place in the " proligerous pellicle " may be watched by all who are conversant with such methods of investigation .
We do not require to call in the aid of the chemist ; we need exercise no special precautions ; the changes in the pellicle are of such a kind that they can be readily appreciated by any skilled microscopist . .
, .
Just as I have supposed that living matter itself comes into being by virtue of combinations and rearrangements taking place amongst in-visible colloidal molecules* , so now does the study of the changes in the " pellicle " absolutely demonstrate the fact that the visible new-born units of living matter behave in the manner which I have attributed to the invisible colloidal molecules .
The living units combine , they undergo mole-cular rearrangements , and the result of such a process of heterogenetic bio-crasis is the appearance of larger and more complex organisms ; just as the result of the combination and rearrangement between the colloidal molecules was the appearance of primordial aggregates of living matter .
Living matter is formed , therefore , after a process which is essentially similar to the mode by which higher organisms are derived from lower organisms in the pellicle on an organic infusion .
All the steps in the latter process can be watched ; it is one of synthesis\#151 ; a merging of lower individualities into a higher individuality .
And although such a process has been previously almost ignored in the world of living matter , it is no less real than when it takes place amongst the simpler elements of not-livmg matter .
In both cases the phenomena are essentially dependent upon the " properties or " inherent tendencies " of the matter which displays them .
The Society then adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursday , April tl .
Presents received March 7 , 1872 .
Reports , Observations , \amp ; c. Calcutta:\#151 ; Geological Survey of India .
Memoirs .
Palaeontologia Indies .
Ser. YI .
The Pelecypoda , by F. Stoliczka ( Cretaceous Fauna .
Yol .
III .
No. 9-13 ) .
Ser. YII .
Kutch Fossils , by F. Stoliczka .
4to .
1871 .
Records .
Yol .
IY .
Pt. 3,4 .
roy.8vo .
1871 .
Observations on the Geology and Zoology of Abyssinia , by W. T. Blanford .
8vo .
London 1870 .
The Survey .
Coimbra :\#151 ; Observatorio da IJniversidade .
Ephemerides Astronomicas , 1872 , 1873 .
8vo .
1870-71 .
Observagoes Meteorologicas feitas no Observatorio Meteorologico e Magnetico .
1866\#151 ; 67 .
fol. Fsodo Instrumento de Passagens pelo primeiro Yertical .
4to .
Coinw* 1870 .
Nota sobre a parallaxe equatorial do Sol .
4to .
Coimbra 1869 .
The Observatory .
* Modes of Origin of Lowest Organisms , pp. 19 \amp ; 108 .

