PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I.\#151 ; The Seecl-Fungas ofLolium teirmlentum , A. , the ByE .
M. Freeman , M.S. , University of Minnesota .
Communicated by Professor Marshall Ward , Received June 6 , \#151 ; Read June 19 , 1902 .
[ Plates 1-3 .
] Introductory .
It has long been known* that the grains of the Darnel contain a poisonous body ( Lolium ) , which can be extracted by ether .
This substance has marked toxic action on rabbits and certain carnivorous animals , and is said to induce vomiting and other unpleasant symptoms in man , but to affect pigs , cattle , and geese but little , or not at all.f In 18981 attention was drawn to the fact that a large percentage ( 80-100 per cent. ) of the grains of this grass contain a definite fungus-mycelium , always situated in a definite layer of the seed , i.e. , in the remains of the nucellus , just outside the aleurone-layer of the endosperm .
Although certain details were made out regarding the nature and position of the hyphse , their relations to the seed and seedling , and to the poisonous properties referred to , almost nothing was discovered regarding the systematic position of the fungus , the course of its life-history , or even how it obtains its entry into the Lolium .
In the following account of an investigation pursued in the Cambridge Botanical Laboratory during the past session , I have succeeded in carrying our knowledge of this remarkable fungus considerably further , and especially in rendering clear the principal points concerning its life in the plant , and the mode of infection of the embryo .
Nevertheless , all attempts to grow the fungus outside its host-plant , or to induce it to form spores , have failed with me as with other investigators , and although some suggestive facts have been obtained which may help in future efforts to establish * According to Guerin ( 5 ) since Roman times .
t Hackel in Engler and Prantl , 'Natiirliche Pfianzenfamilien , ' If .
Th. , 2 Abth .
, 1887 , p. 7G .
X By Voul , Guerin , Hanausek , and Nestler , in four papers referred to below .
VOL. CXCVI .
\#151 ; B 214 .
B 8.4.03 .
the systematic position of the fungus , we are still utterly baffled as to whether it is an Ustalagine , a Uredine , or an Ascomycete ol the nature of ergot or other toxic species as yet unknown .
The evidence so far points to the present case being an interesting example of symbiosis .
Historical .
Previous to 1898 the research work on Lolium was entirely of a chemical nature , dealing especially with the toxic constituents .
In January , 1898 , Vogl ( 2 ) announced the presence of a layer of fungus hyphae in the crushed nucellar remains just outside the aleurone layer , and later on in the same year three other papers appeared on the subject .
In August , Guerin ( 5 ) published the result of his investigations , the object of which was to determine the cause of the toxicity of Darnel.# He described and figured a densely interwoven layer of hyphae between the exterior wall of the aleurone layer and the hyaline layer of the grain .
He found the hyphae lining the entire grain , except along the groove on the inner side and in the vicinity of the embryo .
No mention is made of the fungus in the early stages of the growing plant .
He observed the fungus in the young ovary before the fertilisation of the egg-cell , as also the growth of the endosperm , which results in the compression of the layer of hyphae found in the mature grain .
Lolium arcense , With .
, and L. linicolum , Solid .
, were also observed to contain the fungus , and since these three species are those to which poisonous properties are assigned , Guerin suggested that their toxicity may be due to the fungus found in them .
Lolium Braun , did not contain hyphae at all , and of A. peremie , L. , only a single example with the fungus was obtained .
Samples of L. temulentum from South America , Asia , Africa , and Europe , were examined , and only three were found to be devoid of the hyphae .
The nature of the fungus could not be determined .
Guerin points out the pronounced differences which distinguish it from Endoconidium , described by Prillieux and Delacroix ( 10 ) .
The germination of these grains of Lolium temulentum was found to be excellent , and the fungus was said to be never met with in the neighbourhood of the embryo .
Finally , Guerin suggests that the presence of the hyphal layer in Darnel grains indicates a case of symbiosis rather than of true parasitism .
The reagents used by Guerin were chloral hydrate or lactic acid for swelling , and " coton bleu " for staining .
The papers of Hanausek and Nestler appeared in September .
Hanausek ( 3 ) described the position of the fungus essentially as did Guerin .
He also found the hyphae in the nucellus of the young ovules , where it produced knots ( " Knauel " ) , which , however , developed no further .
He pointed out similarities with the Ustila* In a subsequent note ( II ) , Guerin claims that his work was at least contemporaneous with that of Vogl , although published later .
OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
gineae , and was of opinion that there is much evidence in support of the view that the fungus is an Ustilagine , which rarely forms spores .
No hyphae were found in L. perenne .
Nestler ( 4 ) agrees with the previous authors as to the position of the hyphae in the grain .
Darnel grains were allowed to germinate under various conditions after treatment with ether .
On the eighth day some hyphae were found in the growing point of the seedling stem and in the base of the young leaf rudiments .
They were subsequently found also in the internodes , and eventually in the vegetative cone and in the youngest leaf rudiments , occupying the intercellular spaces .
They were even traced through the axis of the inflorescence into the ovular rudiment , entering through the funicle , and were found in abundance in the nucellus .
Nestler 's description of the subsequent development agrees with that of Guerin .
Nestler also placed pieces of the hyphae from the nucellar layer of the mature grains in various nutrient solutions of different strengths ; but the hyphae would not grow .
The examination of the grains during germination showed , after a few days , a formation of isolated hyphae , with rounded cells at the end or in the middle of the hyphae ( " Sporenbildung " ) .
Later on , little but imprints on the aleurone cells were to he found .
When the culms were about l decim .
high , the endosperm of the grain was found to contain numerous thin , long , segmented hyphae with perpendicular branches .
These occurred even in partially sterilised grains .
Nestler adds that the identity of these with the nucellar hyphae is not proved .
As to the method of penetration , the author suggests that the fungus is in the vegetative cone from the beginning of germination , hut he found it in the growing point of the embryo in only a single instance .
He also argued that penetration could not have taken place from the exterior , as his careful manipulation must have prevented such an entrance .
No definite systematic position is assigned to the fungus , but a similarity between the toxic physiological action of Darnel and of Woronin 's ( 12 ) " Taumelroggen " is suggested as possibly indicating relationships .
The great differences in appearance and behaviour of the fungi which cause " Taumelroggen " are , however , pointed out .
Nestler made use of chloral hydrate and potassium hydrate as clearing reagents .
No fungus layer was found in the other species The species examined were L. perenne , L. , L. multiflorum , Lam .
( = italicum , A. Br .
= Kunth ) , L. remotum , Schrank ( = L. arSchrad .
= A. Br .
) , L. festucaceum , Link .
( = L. perenne , L. x L. ) , and others .
A short paper by Micheletti appeared last year ( 1901 ) , and deals almost entirely with the toxicity of Darnel ( 6 ) .
Methods .
For the demonstration of the presence of the fungus in the growing point of the plant , the grains were placed in an ordinary germinating chamber , and the embryos or seedlings dissected out at different stages .
Flemming 's weak solution ( 7 , p. 41 ) and chromic acid , 1 per cent , and per cent. , were used as fixing fluids .
The material was cut , in the usual way , in paraffin .
Aniline-water-safranin ( 8 , p. 185 ) and Haidenhain 's hsematoxylin proved most useful for staining .
The latter is particularly helpful in the detection of the hypliae by means of the nucleoli , which stain deeply , and the method proved quite successful , especially in the examination of the seedling .
Analine-water-safranin is very useful in the study of the ovary .
Chloral hydrate , potassium hydrate , and lactic acid are useful in certain cases in the examination of the grains , but they are not suitable for the study of the growing point ; their use probably accounts for the failure of previous writers to discover the hyphse in the earliest stages of germination .
As the alcoholic dehydration and high temperature of the paraffin-bath make the starchy endosperm unfit for the preparation of paraffin sections , the grains were cut in an ether-freezing-microtome after fixing in the usual way.# Of sections so cut , some were examined without further treatment , and others were treated with the various reagents above mentioned .
Attempts at cultures of the nucellar hyphse taken from the grain were made in various media , in hanging drops in the Marshall Ward cell ( 9 , p. 131 ) .
The difficulties of obtaining mounts free from bacteria and from other fungi are considerable , and details of the cultures will be described later on .
Numerous grafts of embryos of various species of upon the endosperm of other species were also successfully obtained .
In the early part of this investigation the small percentage of grains of Lolium iemuwhich do not contain the fungus , as contrasted with the similarly small number of grains of L. perenne which do contain it , occasioned some difficulty , especially in view of the erratic occurrence and variation , as explained below .
This difficulty was completely obviated later by examining sections from the stigmatic end of all grains used , so that the condition of each grain ( as regards presence or absence of fungus ) worked with was accurately known .
In the grafting and other experiments of a similar nature , no method was devised which could ensure absolute freedom from various moulds and bacterial forms without at the same time injuring the embryo , but several were found helpful in checking the growth of these forms , and in some cases perfectly clean seeds were apparently obtained .
Dry heat at 95-98 ' C. killed the embryos ; immersion in ether for 15 minutes ( the method of Nestleh ) gave fairly satisfactory results in checking the growth of moulds , but failed to completely prevent contamination ; the embryos in almost all cases survived the treatment .
One per cent , corrosive sublimate applied to the dry grains for 10-15 minutes usually cleaned the grains , but the embryos which survived such severe treatment were comparatively few in number .
A 7-minute immersion in the same solution , however , proved satisfactory , at least in checking , and often in completely preventing , foreign growths ; the growth of the * I am greatly indebted to Mr. A , W. Hill , Demonstrator jn Botany , for the use of apparatus in this part of the work .
OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
embryos was at most but slightly retarded .
In all cases where antiseptic solutions were used the grains were subsequently thoroughly washed in boiled distilled water .
The Grain and its Fungus .
The cross-section of the average grain of Lolium shows a layer of densely woven fungus hyphse just outside the aleurone layer in the crushed remnants of the nucellus , of which the outer cell-rows form the " hyaline " layer .
This is the hyphal layer which has been described by Nestler , Guerin , Hanausek and others .
Previous writers have found but a very small per cent , of the grains of L. temulentum devoid of the hyphae .
Hanausek states that he examined many hundreds of grains and found none without the fungus !
The number devoid of the fungus found by Guerin was very small , and Nestler also reports only a few .
I have found the proportion between those grains with and those without the fungus exceedingly variable .
In one package of grains grown at the University Botanical Gardens in Cambridge , 15 per cent. ( 12 out of 76 ) were devoid of the fungus , and in a package received from Upsala , out of ten grains examined eight did not contain hyphse .
Another lot of thirty-five from the University Botanical Gardens at Cambridge gave thirty-three with and two without hyphae .
The latter probably approximates the usual proportion .
The error which might arise from an admixture of other species is practically nil , on account of the marked characters of the grains of Darnel.# After examining about twenty grains , I discovered that certain microscopic differences were sufficient to enable me , even without the aid of a lens , to pick out most of those grains devoid of the fungus , subsequent microscopic examination in almost every case confirming the selections .
The grains without the fungus often appear incompletely developed .
They are usually more slender in both lateral aspects , and less swollen in the centre , and are usually devoid of the yellow to dark-brown or grey colour of those which contain the fungus .
In many cases they are more or less yellowish-green in colour ; but sometimes of a dark straw-yellow hue .
Nevertheless examples are to be met with which are microscopically indistinguishable from those which contain the fungus .
The latter are usually swollen considerably in the central region , and are yellowish-brown or grey in colour , seldom green .
These general differences are based upon the examination of material of 1901 , grown in the Botanical Gardens at Cambridge .
The colour is perhaps the most useful diagnostic character .
Apparently grains kept several years tend to lose the colour difference .
I have specimens of L. temulentum var .
arvense which are so dark in colour that at first sight one would pronounce them to be ergoted ; they are , however , perfectly healthy grains containing a broad layer of hyphse .
For the examination of the fungus in the grain and embryos , grains of Darnel were placed in ordinary germinating chambers for 18 to 24 hours .
In such grains no * See Marshall Ward , 'Grasses , ' p. 168 , and authorities quoted .
G MR. E. M. FREEMAN ON THE SEED-FUNGUS actual growth of the emhryo has as yet taken place , since very rarely indeed are mitotic figures found .
The considerable increase in the size of the embryo is of course due simply to the absorption of moisture .
These embryos were then dissected out and cut by the paraffin method , while the endosperm was cut with an ether-freezing-microtome .
Longitudinal and cross-sections of the grain show the hyphal layer in the micellar remnants , distributed almost co-extensively with the aleurone layer ( figs. 3-9 ) .
According to all previous writers , the hyphse are not found near the embryo nor along the groove on the inner side of the grain ; but although this is true for the upper part of the groove , at the base of the latter , where the end of the aleurone layer ( fig. 4 a)comes into contact with the outer surface of the scutellum , the hyphte are again found ( figs. 4 and 5 ) , often as a fairly broad layer , which appears to have entirely escaped the observation of previous investigators .
The hyphse at this point penetrate round the end of the aleurone layer , and hence come into direct contact with the embryo , and it is from these hyphae that entrance into the embryo has been effected .
In this infection , as I will term it , the hyphae run , chiefly longitudinally , for some distance above and below the end of the aleurone layer ( figs. 22-24 ) , and since the layer is often broad , a more or less circular area of hyphae can be seen on the outer surface of the scutellum at its base ( fig. 46 ) .
The absence of hyphae along the groove of the inner surface is explained in the development of the ovule .
The funicular region of the young ovule , along which the groove subsequently arises , contains at first hyphae , as elsewhere , though they are less abundant than in the rest of the nucellus ; but in the elongation of the ovule no growth of hyphae seems to take place in this region , leaving the groove devoid of the fungus in the mature grain .
In all cases observed the infection has taken place from the infection layer described above .
The aleurone layer in this region is often bent back along the scutellum towards the tip of the latter , thus forming a double layer ( fig. 22 ) .
This is also explained in the development of the grain .
The hyphae gain entrance to the embryo before the latter has attained its ultimate intra-seminal size , and firmly fasten the ends of the aleurone layer to the embryo ; so that the continued growth of the embryo results in a dragging and doubling of the aleurone layer , sliding being prevented by the hyphae .
In some cases , however , this bending back of the aleurone layer does not occur , and the hyphae are then found on both sides of the end cells of the layer ( figs. 23 and 24 ) .
The hyphae may frequently be seen growing through between the aleurone cells in this region ( figs. 22 and 23 ) ; such a penetration is not usually found in any other part of the aleurone layer .
Under certain conditions , to be referred to subsequently , however , it does occur , and is then usually very frequent ( figs. 37-39 ) .
On the outer side of the grain ( fig. 1 ) the aleurone layer reaches to the ligule of the scutellum , and the hyphal layer on this side does not reach the end of the aleurone* * Guerin 's figure ( loc. cit. , p. 235 ) , showing the aleurone extending downward on the outer surface to a point opposite the growing cone is , according to my observations , incorrect .
OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
( figs. 3 , 5 and 8 ) ; it may , however , extend to within a dozen cells from the end .
It is not impossible perhaps that infection may , in exceptional cases , take place from this side of the scutellum ; but , if so , it occurs very seldom .
I have seen no evidence either in the mature grain or in the developing ovary to indicate that such an infection is ever accomplished .
In all cases which I have examined , the infecting hyphye have been found in the area described above ( tigs .
4 and 16 ) .
Along a median longitudinal line of the outer surface a shallow groove marks the line of a considerably deeper groove , found in the young ovary , and along this groove the hyphal layer is often narrower than in the neighbouring regions .
Moreover , the layer of hyphye varies considerably in size in different grains as well as in different regions of the same grain .
A fair average of the thickness is perhaps 10 to 1 5/ a , but in some grains it acquires a thickness of 45/ a. It is thickest in the lateral prominences and narrowest along the shallow groove of the outer surface , as described above .
Along the inner groove , where the layer is entirely wanting , it may cease abruptly or taper off gradually .
Beyond the end of the aleurone layer the embryo comes into direct contact at all jjoints with a thin covering of the fused pericarp , seed-coats , and nucellus ( figs. 5 , 8 and 9b ) .
Previous writers have not recorded any penetration of the aleurone layer by the hyphse .
In addition to the penetration near the infection , described above , the hyphye may , under favourable conditions , penetrate at any point ( figs. 37-39 ) .
In material from Ghent ( which did not appear quite normal or very vigorous , but of which the germination proved to be equally good with that of apparently normal grains ) , in almost every grain examined , hyphye from the hyaline layer were found in great abundance , which had forced their way through the aleurone layer into the starch endosperm .
These hyphye are always intercellular and , as far as 1 have seen , penetrate where the walls are thickest , i.e. , at the junction of three or more cells .
As many as three or four hyphye often traverse the same wall ( fig. 37 ) .
In the starch endosperm these hyphye continue their intercellular growth ( fig. 38 ) and may penetrate even to the centre of the grain .
In the intercellular spaces at the corners of the large starch cells the hyphye usually form small knotted masses by branching and by convolutions ( fig. 38a ) , and the hyphye themselves may become considerably swollen .
At apparently any point in the wall these hyphye may send out numerous coral-like branches ( fig. 39 ) , but no extensive growths of this kind were found .
Invaginations of the wall into cell-lumen of the starch cells are frequent , but 1 have seen no undoubted example of intracellular hyphye .
As to contents , size and septation these hyplue were otherwise similar to those found in the layer exterior to the aleurone .
Their significance will be discussed later .
In material from Hamburg , marked L. multi forum ( but which was probably L. ) , one case of penetrations similar to above was also found , a third case of similar occurrence was discovered in an undoubted specimen of L. temulentum grown in Cambridge .
The Fungus in the Embryo .
The relation between the hyphse in the grain and those in the embryo is best seen in a median longitudinal section of the latter with the aleurone layer of the grain still attached ( fig. 16 ) .
In sections overstained with hematoxylin the hyphse can be seen entering the scutellum between the epidermal cells from the injection area described above ( figs. 4 and 22-24 ) ; 1 have found as many as six hyphal penetrations in a single embryo ; sometimes two occur contiguous to a single cell ( fig. 25 ) .
I he entire subsequent course of the hyphse , as far as I have seen , is always intercellular .
From the point of entrance they converge more or less toward the angle in the bend of the vascular bundle of the scutellum as it turns downward in the stem ( fig. 15 and k , fig. 16 ) , traversing a tissue composed of elongated thin-walled cells .
From this region the hyphse grow past the vascular bundle of the scutellum , and also close to that of the first leaf* in the neighbourhood of which they can usually be very clearly seen .
They then penetrate the growing point of the embryo , approaching often to within two cells of the tip ( figs. 11-17 ) .
In view of the well-developed condition of the hyphse in the growing point of the embryo , it must be accepted that the hyphse have gained entrance previous to the mature condition of the grain , and the study of the embryology confirms this view .
Perhaps the best method of demonstrating the jjresence of the hyphse in the growing point is by means of aniline-water-safranin ; fortunate staining shows the hyphse in longitudinal view and also the cut-off* ends ( figs. 11 and 12 ) .
Haidenhain 's hsema-toxylin stains the protoplasm of both host-cells and hyphse , leaving the walls unstained ; by careful washing out , the nucleoli of both host-cells and fungus-hyphse can be brought into view , darkly stained upon a light grey background of cytoplasm ( fig. 10 ) .
By means of these nucleoli the hyphse can often easily be recognised and their course traced .
Hyphse near the surface , especially in overstained sections , are sometimes stained an opaque dark blue ( figs. 13-15 ) .
In the more or less conical region , the apex of which is the bend of the vascular bundle of the scutellum ( fig. 16 , ) , and indeed wherever they are found in the scutellum , the hyphse stain very readily with hsema-toxylin , but often irregularly as though the protoplasm had aggregated into dense masses , suggestive of initial stages of degeneration .
A similar appearance is frequently found in the hyphse of the nucellus during the later stages of germination of the grain .
The hyphse in the growing point are found in a conical region corresponding with the growing cone .
Toward the apex most of them lie longitudinally in the cone ( figs. 11 and 14 ) , but toward the base there is a denser network in which the hyphse often appear on all sides of many of the cells ( fig. 12 ) ; in tins region the cut-off ends of the hyphse are very abundant .
Owing to the density of the protoplasm of the host-cells , and the difficulty in obtaining unobstructed views of the fungus in the growing point , the details in this region can be only imperfectly made out .
In a OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
24-hour stage the hyphte are 2-3 pin diameter , branch frequently , have conspicuous nucleoli , and septa are very rare , if present at all .
I have seen no distinct septa in an embryo of this age .
This may be merely an indication that the growing tips of the hyphse are as yet unsegmented .
The hyphse never enter a cell lumen , but are always intercellular , and are so closely covered by the substance of the cell walls in which they are imbedded , that cross-sections appear like very small interpolated cells ( fig. 12 ) , and can be seen only in carefully-stained preparations .
A small percentage of embryos , corresponding in general to that of fungus-free grains , are found to be devoid of hyphse .
In those sections of the embryo to which the aleurone layer is still attached , the absence of the hyphse from the embryo is seen to be correlated with their absence outside the aleurone layer .
In all cases examined , where hyphse were present in the embryo , they could also be found in the nucellus .
As to the possibility of their presence in the embryo and absence from the grain , all evidence is at joresent negative .
Again , where hyphse are found in the grain they are also present in the embryo .
I have met with only one doubtful case where this did not appear to be true ; the staining in this case may have been faulty , but , as far as could be seen , it was similar to other successful attempts .
It is impossible at present to determine definitely whether these embryos , which appear devoid of the fungus , are so owing to the occasional failure of the hyphse in ordinarily infected plants to gain admission to all the grains , or whether they indicate a fungus-free race of the Darnel , hitherto confounded with that containing the fungus .
In two instances , in packets of " seeds " I have obtained spikelets or parts of spikelets with more than one grain still attached , in which one grain was devoid of hyphse , and in both cases all the other grains of the spikelet ( in one case three , in the other five ) were likewise free from the fungus .
This , together with the variable proportion of grains with and without the fungus , indicate in all probability that all or none of the grains of a given plant are infected.* Experiments are now being made which it is hoped will clear up this and several other related points .
In order to check the evidence of the microtome sections as to the presence of hyphse in the growing point of the embryo , and in order to try to obtain information as to the function of the general nucellar layer of hyphse in the grain , the following experiments were undertaken :\#151 ; Thirty-five grains each of Lolium temulentumand L. perenne were freed from their palese and immersed in 1 per cent , corrosive sublimate for 7 minutes , f. They were then quickly shaken in several changes of boiled distilled water , and placed in sterile germinating chambers , which were also moistened with boiled distilled water .
After * Guerin ( Joe .
cit. , p. 235 ) states that of more than forty samples examined , only three were devoid of the fungus , and in two of these there was no exception .
He adds : " Faisons observer de plus epie , pour un localite donnee , lorsqu'un grain est parasite tous le sont .
" According to my observations , the last statement would be correct if restricted to single plants , but certainly will not hold for localities .
f Preliminary experiments indicated that this treatment was not noticeably injurious to the embryos , but retarded or altogether prevented disturbing growths of moulds , \amp ; c. VOL , CXCVI.\#151 ; L. C 24 hours in this chamber , they were removed , and with sterilised instruments the embryos from the L. temulentumgrains were grafted on to the endosperms , and vice versed .
Each embryo of L. temulen was examined under a hand-lens with a magnification of 10 diameters , and all traces of the pericarp , nucellus , and endosperm were removed.# The cleaned embryos were then placed in suitable cavities prepared in the endosperm of L. perenne , and the grains then replaced in sterilised chambers .
Of the thirty-five grafts of temulentum on , all but one germinated successfully , growing to a height of from 1\#151 ; 3 centims. in the germinating chamber , and remaining almost absolutely free from moulds .
They were then removed to soil , where most of them continued their growth .
In the grafts of L. perenne on L. temulentum no precaution was taken to remove the pericarp , since L. perenne does not usually contain a hyphal layer .
Thirty-four grafts were made , and of these , eighteen germinated .
All of the grafted grains were kept in the germinating chamber 7-8 days .
The resulting seedlings were in both cases uniformly smaller and more slender than the ordinary seedlings , but otherwise normal .
On the 16th day five of the seedlings from L. temulentum on perenne were killed in 1 per cent , chromic acid , and sections of the growing point were cut .
Three of these contained the fungus , and the other two did not .
The distinguishing macroscopic differences between grains which contain the fungus and those devoid of it were discovered subsequent to the beginning of this experiment .
To ignorance of these differences , and to the erratic occurrence of grains without the fungus in groups , as described above , is probably due the large percentage given of seedlings devoid of the fungus .
The remaining seedlings have been kept to determine the influence , if any , on the formation of fruit .
The presence of the fungus in those seedlings which were examined confirms , however , the results of the microtome sections .
It is just possible , perhaps , that infection from external sources might have occurred during the grafting , but , in view of the life-history described below , and in view of the precautions in the manipulation , it is exceedingly improbable .
The growing points of two of the seedlings of on temulentum were also examined , and both contained hyphse .
I have since found that , although not commonly , yet occasionally , normal grains of perenne contain a hyphal layer similar to that of L. temulentum.f The occurrence of the fungus in both seedlings above mentioned is either a remarkable coincidence , or else ( as seems far more probable ) hyphse from the infection layer of the L. temulentum grains were able to gain entrance to the embryo of perenne .
* * I now know that , in spite of all possible precautions , hyphas from the infection layer would still cling to the scutellum .
They can be seen in sections of almost every dissected embryo , t Guerin ( Joe .
cit. , p. 235 ) also reports one such occurrence .
OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
The drain and Fungus during Germination .
In order to study the development of the fungus in the germinating grass seed , and subsequently in the plant , grains were germinated in an ordinary moist chamber , and each day up to , and at longer intervals after , the 17th day , material was fixed and cut in the usual way .
The hyphal layer in the grain undergoes no noticeable change for some time , except perhaps a swelling due to the absorption of water .
I have seen no evidence of growth of these hyphse ; on the contrary , all the indications point to the conclusion that they have been crowded out , as it were , and lie inert in the nucellar tissue .
From a 24-hour grain , fragments of the hyphse can easily be dissected out ( figs. 34 and 35 ) .
Examined in distilled water , they are usually much contorted and bent , and from the ease with which they fragment appeal ' to be quite brittle .
They measure 3/ x or more in diameter , and are slightly larger than those in the tissue of the growing plant .
They branch frequently , the branches usually being at right angles , and about equal in diameter to the hyphse from which they originate , and the septa are numerous and easily seen .
The protoplasmic contents are usually homogeneous and finely granular , and in several days ' time often become vacuolate ; they greedily absorb haematoxylin , but the nuclei are either absent or hidden .
The hyphse undergo no noticeable change until the fifth or sixth day , when the protoplasmic contents begin to contract and aggregate into coarse granules , which often assume a rounded form ; the latter seem to mark early stages in the breaking down of the hyphal protoplasm ( figs. 30 , 31 , and 33 ) .
By the eighth day much of the protoplasm , as well as the wall , has disappeared , and left only grooves , which mark the former position of the hyphse in the nucellus ( fig. 32 ) .
The rate of disintegration varies very considerably in different grains .
Whether this disintegration is due to bacterial action or to that of enzymes , produced either in the hyphse themselves or by the adjacent aleurone layer , cannot at present be determined .
It may be difficult to see how bacteria could gain entrance through the pericarp , and unless some process analogous to enzymatic action in the mature aleurone occurs , it is difficult to say which seems most probable .
The hyphse completely disappear in the later stages of germination .
In the vast majority of grains examined I have never found a hypha penetrating either into the lumina of the aleurone cells or through this layer into the starch endosperm , except in the region of the infection area already described .
With the exception described above , I have also never found , in ordinary grains , hyphse in the starch endosperm .
In a late stage of germination the glutinous products of the starch-cells often produced ( in teased preparations of the endosperm ) tenacious thread-like strings , remarkably similar to delicate wefts of fungus hyphse , but their nature is easily detected on applying suitable tests .
It is also very probable that the saprophytic fungi which frequent the outer surface of the grain , and which at about the eighth day can be found in abundance in the tissues of the palea and pericarp , might eventually gain entrance to the starchy endosperm .
Nestler ( .p .
213 ) has described hyphse permeating the starchy endosperm when the culm is 1 decim .
high , even in plants derived from grains treated in ether for 15 minutes or singed in the Bunsen flame .
The ether method , according to my experience , although it retards , does not completely destroy the external saprophytes , and dry heat at 95-98 ' C. for 10 minutes is insufficient to destroy the bacteria .
In view of these facts , and also of the failure of my culture experiments with separated hyphse , as well as those of Nestler , it seems very probable that the hyphse in the starch endosperm described by Nestler are not identical with the fungus in the nucellus ; the latter has disappeared usually before the culm is 1 decim .
high .
The following culture experiments are of interest in connection with the possibilities and development of the nucellar hyphse of the grain .
In addition to the recorded attempts given below , numerous attempts have been made to get cultures of these hyphse separated from the grain .
The method pursued was the following:\#151 ; Grains , with or without previous treatment , were placed in clean germinating chambers .
At successive stages these were removed and , with a razor , properly sterilised , were cut in two parts in a median lateral longitudinal plane .
The half containing the groove of the grain was rejected , and mounts made from the other half , after removing the starch and laying bare the aleurone and nucellus .
With sterilised needles small amounts of the hyphal layer , often entirely free from starch , were obtained .
Care was taken to prevent the needles from piercing the pericarp of the grain , to avoid contamination from species of Clctdosporium , Dematimn , and Alter naria , which are very commonly found on the pericarp .
Bacteria are very difficult to exclude , but careful manipulation will give pure mounts of the hyphse .
The hyphse were quickly placed in hanging drops in the Ward cell ( 9 ) , and observed frequently .
The media used were beerwort gelatin , 2 per cent. , horse extract gelatin , 2 per cent. , and distilled water .
A large number of mounts were observed , in which bacteria and mould spores had developed to some extent , but had not completely overrun the drop in the course of a week .
In these there was little or no possibility of the hyphse having been killed in the manipulation previous to immersion in the medium , and it is probable that , if they were at all capable of growth in these media , they would at least have shown indications in a week .
Some mounts in beerwort gelatin were also placed in an incubator at 25 ' C. In all these attempts isolated fragments of hyphse ( figs. 34 and 35 ) , and also clumps of hyphse still attached to the aleurone cells , were used .
To obtain pure mounts for a longer time-test , the following experiments were performed .
Two per cent , beerwort gelatin was the medium used in all , and they were kept at ordinary room temperature .
J .
Dry grains , from which the palese had been removed , were placed at a dry heat of 95 ' to 98 ' C. for 10 minutes , then put into sterilised germinating chambers , OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
which were moistened with boiled distilled water .
The embryos were all killed , and no pure cultures were obtained ; eventually bacteria always prevailed .
2 .
Grains cleared by carefully removing the paleae with sterilised needles were placed in ether for 15 minutes ( method used by Nestler ) , and then shaken with boiled distilled water several times and put in sterilised chambers .
All the grains germinated , and in one or two cases I was fortunate enough to dissect out one or two clean pieces .
A pure mount of hyphae from a 3-day grain showed no growth in 10 days , and was then discarded .
A pure mount from a 6-day grain was kept 18 days , and no growth of the hyphae took place .
3 .
Grains cleaned as before were immersed in 1 per cent , corrosive sublimate 10 to 15 minutes , then shaken well in several changes of boiled distilled water and placed in a sterilised chamber .
Of these , almost 25 per cent , germinated , but the germination was retarded .
A pure mount from a 3-day grain was kept 10 days ; another , from a 6-day grain , was kept 18 days ; and a third , from a 13-day grain , was kept 13 days .
In no case did growth of the hyphae take place .
4 .
From an untreated grain in an unsterilised chamber a fortunate pure mount was obtained , and kept 56 days , and no growth resulted .
In Experiment 3 there is considerable possibility that the hyphae were injured by the corrosive sublimate , but they are better protected than the embryo , on account of the somewhat gelatinous condition of the nucellar remnants in which they are imbedded .
In appearance the hyphae from these cultures are indistinguishable from those of untreated grains .
In Experiment 2 there is at least very great probability that the hyphae have remained unharmed , for germination of the embryo proceeds as in untreated grains .
In Experiment 4 , and in the very numerous less fortunate attempts above mentioned , there is no reason for supposing the fungus to have been in any way injured .
Growth was not observed in a single instance .
Nestler ( .
cit. , p. 212 ) has also failed to cultivate these hyphae .
The conclusion to be drawn from these results is that the hyphal layer ( not , however , including the infection layer ) in the nucellus of the matured grain is ordinarily incapable of further germination , or else that the fungus is so closely adapted to a parasitic life that its mycelium cannot be cultivated in artificial media , as is well known to be the case with rusts and smuts .
Of course , both of these conditions may at once be true .
The fact that the general hyphal layer in the grain is of no further use in the infection of the embryo , the common failure of the hyphae to penetrate into the endosperm through the aleurone layer , the comparatively rapid disintegration of the hyphae under natural conditions ( figs. 28\#151 ; 32 ) , the irregular staining reactions ( fig. 33 ) , the contortion and compression of the layer ( fig. 28 ) , and , filially , the behaviour of the hyphae in the above-described culture experiments , all appear to indicate that the nucellar hyphae of the mature grains are incapable ol further development .
At the same time , it is very probable from the behaviour of the fungus that a very close adaptation exists between the latter and its host , that the formation of the thick layer of hyphae in the nucellus functions for the purpose of penetration of the endosperm , is probable from the success which sometimes attends the attempt .
There is apparently a struggle going on between the fungus-hyphae and the endosperm , particularly the aleurone cells , the walls of which are in this case very serviceably thick , and external conditions are probably of importance in deciding the result .
In some cases the hyphae succeed in gaining entrance , but in the vast majority of cases the endosperm excludes them from any further success in attacking the contents .
The Fungus in the Growing Plant .
When the embryo of the grain resumes growth on germination , the hyphae ( already in its tissues , as we have seen ) keejj pace with this growth , and can be detected in the growing point throughout the life of the plant .
Nestler 's inability to see the hyphae earlier than the eighth day was probably due to an incomplete method .
As the stem elongates , the hyphae can he seen for some distance below the growing point , and are especially easily demonstrated in the central thin-walled parenchyma .
The development is best illustrated in a J7-day seedling ( fig. 17 ) .
In a median longitudinal section the hyphae can be traced first in the growing point , just as in the embryo , then stretching downward in the stem to the first node above the scutellum , and sometimes they may even be followed into the epicotyl .
I have found but few cases of the latter , however , and it is probable that the hyphae at that distance from the growing point have undergone disorganisation .
It may also be noted here that the hyphae which in the embryo can be found between the growing point and the infection-area , also apparently undergo early disorganisation ; I have never seen them later than the sixth day of germination .
In addition to their occurrence in the above described area in the 17-day seedling , the hyphae extend into the growing points of the lateral buds ( figs. 17Jr and lr\ fig. 1861 ) , and very pronounced evaginations of this kind are found at the base of each leaf , where the hyphae form a vigorous network of characteristic appearance , extending through most of the cross-section of the leaf base ( fig. \7d).'* They are , however , very scarce or wanting in the vicinity of the vascular bundle .
The hyphae of these networks are easily seen , and furnish excellent material for detailed study ( figs. 19 , 20 , 21 ) .
There are no hyphae in the base of the first leaf-sheath ( fig. 1771 ) , and hyphae never enter the lateral root rudiments , although they are often found very close to them .
As to the explanation and the function of these patches of hyphae in the leaf-bases , * Nestleii saw these hyphs\#174 ; in the leaf-rudiments , but does not mention them in the later development .
OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
I have little direct evidence to offer .
It seems possible , however , that they have to do with the infection of the lateral buds .
The latter are usually infected directly by hyphae , from the centre of the stem ; but it is possible that in case of failure of the terminal hyphae , during the elongation of the stem , to accomplish the infection , of the lateral buds , the hyphae in the leaf-base ( which seems to remain vigorous for some time ) may eventually effect an entrance into the bud .
In this case , it may be that the above named hyphae afford a safety precaution in case of first failure .
In one case I traced hyphae from the base of the second leaf downward to the growing point in the axil of the first sheath .
Whether this would be the normal process , or whether the growth would be to the bud in the axil of the same leaf , cannot be determined .
If this is the function of these hyphae in the leaf-base , distance would probably be an important determining factor of the course in growth .
It is also conceivable that the tendency to form patches of hyphae in the leaf-base is associated with the habit of entering the carpels previous to the infection of the ovules .
As described later , the hyphae can be found in the bases of all morphological equivalents of leaves , i. e , , paleae , glumes and stamens .
Again , it might be considered that the hyphae are led\#151 ; probably by chemotactic attraction\#151 ; into the young leaf rudiments as into a growing point , but the absence of the fungus from all roots , and particularly from lateral roots , points to the fact that adaptation is very highly developed .
In general the hyphae are not found in the vascular bundles , and seldom even in close proximity to them , but are abundant in the thin-walled parenchyma .
They are more easily seen here than in the embryo on account of the less dense protoplasmic contents and the frequent shrinking of the walls of the host-cells .
They are usually , however , just as closely compressed by the surrounding walls as they are in the embryo .
The hyphae , as seen in the leaf-bases ( figs , 19-21 ) , have a finely granular protoplasm in which a high power shows numerous large vascuoles , which are , however , absent from some regions ( fig. 20 ) .
The nuclei are ellipsoidal or spheroidal , with a well-marked spherical nucleolus , which stains very readily with haematoxylin , and also , but less easily , with aniline-water-safranin .
The nuclei are often found at the corners of the host-cells , where the hyphae are frequently swollen .
Septa are very seldom seen and probably rare ( fig. 21 ) .
As in the embryo , so in these later developments , the course of the hyphae remains intercellular , and I have seen no haustorial branches of any kind .
Inflorescence and Ovary .
Some weeks before the spicate inflorescence emerges from the enveloping leaf-sheaths its initial inception exists as a short cylindrical mass of merismatic tissue , embossed with the rudiments of the floral parts , glumes and paleae ( fig. 40 ) .
Sections show that almost the entire mass is permeated by the fungus-hyphae , so that it seems very improbable that a single ovule need escape infection .
In the later development each ovule is seen to be infected by way of the funicle , and the hyphae , as before stated , extend into the bases of all glumes , paleae and filaments in a manner similar to that met with in the case of the vegetative leaves .
The hyphae in the internodes are very conspicuous .
In the hope of finding spore-formation in the pollen sac , a number of stamens were carefully examined , but the hyphae were never found to extend far into the filaments , and never invade the anthers .
The rudiments of the ovules , however , contain hyphae from the earliest stages .
In a very young stage , the spheroidal ovule is attached to the placental margin of the carpel by its flattened funicular side , and in this condition ( fig. 41 ?
; ) 1 find the hyphae uniformly distributed throughout the ovule except in the external layers of cells .
With the formation of the embryo-sac accompanying the change of the ovule to an ovoid form , the distribution of the hyphae becomes remarkably characteristic .
This is very well seen when the embryo-sac is in the 8-cell stage , * as indicated by the dotted line in fig 43 .
The hyphae are then found throughout the upper end of the ovule , but they are comjDletely wanting on the outer side in the embryo-sac end\#151 ; stopping at about the antipodal end of the sac ; on the inner or axial side , however , a tongue of hyphae extends from the funicular region almost to the micropyle ( see dotted area figs. 41-45 ) .
A patch of hyphae can always be detected outside the embryo-sac opposite the egg nucleus ( fig. 48/ / ) .
In the upper part of the ovule a differentiation of the micellar tissue is already evident , into an outer small-celled layer of compact cells , 4-6-cells deep ( fig. 47 ) , and a central area of large thin-walled cells with thin watery protoplasm ( fig. 47 cThe hyphae have already formed a dense network throughout the outer small-celled region , and extend usually to within two cells of the exterior .
They may extend along the radial walls of the sub-epidermal layer of cells to the epidermis , but are seldom found along the inner periclinal wall of the epidermis , and never extend into the radial walls of the latter .
In the central thin-walled tissue the hyphae are very conspicuous , though not so abundant as outside this .
They are in every way similar to those in the leaf-bases , except that septation is apt to be more evident and abundant ( fig. 50 ) .
The next noticeable change occurs during the elongation of the ovule , in the period preceding and accompanying pollination and fertilisation ( figs. 44 and 45 ) .
As the ovule elongates , the growth of the hyphae in different regions varies .
Along the broad funicular side , practically no growth of the fungus takes place , so that very soon the hyphae in this region are reduced to very few .
The tongue which extends toward the micropyle , however , sustains a vigorous growth , and the mycelium here , having become detached from the rest of the hyphae by the elongation of the ovule and cessation of the growth of the funicular hyphae , now forms an isolated patch lining the inner lower side of the rapidly growing embryo-sac .
This constitutes the * By this phrase I mean when the embryo-sac contains the complete egg-apparatus , antipodal cells , Ac .
OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
young infection layer of the grain .
The embryo-sac as it increases finds little resistance in the thin-walled cells of the central region , and these break down readily .
The hyphge between these cells are not injured , but are shoved along and gradually accumulate into a special layer as the embryo-sac elongates and swells ( figs. 45 and 49 ) .
ihe peripheral denser network of hyphge has , by further growth , become still more dense .
The further development is best seen when the embryo has attained a length of about 3/ 10 of a millim. In such an embryo the lateral growing point is fairly well differentiated from the terminal scutellum , but the rudiments of the leaves have not yet appeared ; walls have now been formed between the nuclei of the embryo-sac , and the endosperm has invaded the nucellus in all directions to within a short distance ol the dense peripheral layer , in which the growth of the hyphge has also continued .
The infection layer remains localised in its growth , and does not increase greatly in length .
Only a few isolated hyphge can now be found in the funicular region .
The embryo has absorbed all but a few remnants of the cells in the micropylar end of the endosperm , and on both inner and outer surfaces has come into direct contact with the nucellus ( fig. 46 ) .
On the inner surface the latter touches the infection , and numerous hyphge can now be seen entering the embryo directly and 'penetrating to various depths in its substance toward its growing point ; some can be traced continuously from the infection layer to within two cells of the tip of the cone ( cf figs. 51 , 11 and 14 ) .
I have found no infection take place previous to the formation of the growing point ; it is probably , therefore , the special chemotactic influence of the vegetative cone which brings about the entrance of the hyphge , as soon as the absorption of endosperm has brought the embryo into contact with the nucellus .
The transition from this condition to that of the mature grain is fairly simple .
The embryo continues its growth and further invades the endosperm , while the infecting hyphge continue to penetrate it and to fill up the growing point .
The endosperm differentiates into an external aleurone layer and a starch-bearing central region , and by swelling out further crowds the nucellus , with its contained hyphge , into a mere crushed lamella in the above-described position in the grain .
The outer part of the hyaline layer of the mature grain is devoid of hyphge ( fig. 28 ) , and is derived from the external ( usually two ) layers of cells of the nucellus , as described above .
Along the funicle , where the inside groove forms , the hyphge have entirely disappeared , and on the opposite ( outer ) side they have not grown towards the micropyle , but have simply kept pace with the growth of the ovule , so that they do not extend past the scutellum .
Finally , the infection layer still persists , as already described , at the base of the scutellum ( fig. 5 ) .
vol. cxcvi.\#151 ; r\gt ; .
D MR. E. xM .
FREEMAN ON THE SEED-FUNGUS Other Species and Varieties Guerin had already pointed out that a hyphal layer is to be found in Lolium colum and also in L. arvense , and he found one specimen of L. perenne with the fungus .
My search among the various species confirms his results and adds a larger percentage of infected specimens of L. perenne , and examples of L. i tali cum as well ; besides some other doubtful species .
Samples of grains have been collected from numerous places throughout Europe , and of these many are obviously wrongly determined , whence it will be necessary to grow the plants for an exact diagnosis .
The following tables give results regarding grains of which the determination appears to be correct .
Of Lolium temulentuma very large additional number of grains have , moreover , been examined of which no record is given :\#151 ; Lolium temulentum , L. No. of plants examined .
No. devoid of fungus .
No. with fungus .
Source of sample .
10 1 9 Bonn .
11 3 8 Ghent .
10 8 2 Upsala .
5 1 4 Marseilles .
10 4 6 Yallombrosa .
8 1 7 Lemburg .
8 3 5 Munich .
8 0 8 Lyons .
76 12 64 Cambridge .
35 2 33 \gt ; ) 181 1 35 1 146 L. temulentum , L. var .
With .
No. of plants examined .
_ No. devoid of fungus .
No. with fungus .
Source of sample 5 1 1 !
4 St. Petersburg .
OF LOLIIJM temulentum , l. , the darnel .
Lolium perenne , L. No. of plants examined .
No. devoid of fungus .
No. with fungus .
Source of sample .
10 9 1 Cambridge .
1 1 0 19 15 4 V \gt ; \gt ; 30 25 5 Lolium italicumBraun .
10 10 0 Cambridge .
10 9 1 9 9 0 Ghent .
10 9* 1 Italy .
20 20 0 Cambridge .
59 57 2 Lolium linicol Br .
1 0 1 Paris .
8 0 8 Greifswald .
8 0 8 Lyons .
8 0 8 Cambridge .
25 0 25 In the following list of grains of L. multijlthe samples are probably , but not certainly , correctly determined :\#151 ; L. multijlorum , Lam .
No. of grains examined .
No. devoid of fungus .
No. with fungus .
Source .
3 3* 0 Hamburg .
2 2 0 Paris .
2 2 0 Kew .
1 1 0 Utrecht .
8 8 0 * One of these contained the young sphacelial stage of an ergot .
D 2 The following is a list of doubtful foims : the names under which they were received are given each case :\#151 ; Species .
No. of grains examined .
No. devoid of fungus .
No. with fungus .
Source .
Remarks .
L. stridum 8 8 0 .
Lyons . . . .
Very similar to L. temulentum .
55 L. rigidu .
1 0 1 Paris . . . .
Similar to L. Un 8 8 0 Hamburg Similar to L. and L. italicum .
L. scabrum 10 10 0 Malta ... .
Similar to L. lini L. multifl 10 2 8 Lyons . . . .
55 55 55 10 1 9 St. Petersburg .
55 55 As a very large number and very varied selection of samples is necessary for generalisations , it will be readily seen that the above tables are insufficient , but they serve to point out the fact that the fungus of L. ( or a closely related form ) has a wider distribution than has heretofore been known .
General Conclusions .
The life cycle of the fungus of Lolium temulentum is probably unique .
From the absence of spore-formation , and from the facts above described , we must conclude that this fungus can live for a considerable time without forming spores , passing from plant to embryo through succeeding generations .
It is , of course , not inconceivable that such hyphrn should go on indefinitely without an intervention of spore-formation , though the phenomenon is so remarkable that it is impossible to resist seeking for the spores .
Many mycorhizal fungi , as far as is known , form no spores , and several domesticated flowering plants might also be cited as analogous examples of sterility .
The spore-forms of the Lolium fungus may , however , still exist in a form which has hitherto escaped detection .
Then , again , we find developed in Lolium a unique and very successful method of infection , which the fungus has apparently substituted for the usual method of spore infection .
It is conceivable that such a method might arise during unsuccessful attempts of the fungus to form spores or a sclerotium in the ovary , and the subsequent infection of the embryo might easily arise on account of the chemotactic influence of the growing-point on the baffled and subjugated , but still vigorous , hyphae .
After the successful establishment of this method of infection , it is conceivable that a symbiotic relationship advantageous to both fungus and host might arise , which would probably result in the cessation of attempts by the fungus to form spores or sclerotium ; the continued sterility would then be explained by the success of the new infection method .
That it is very successful there can be no doubt , since probably over 95 per cent , of Lolium temulentum grains contain the fungus .
OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
The response of the hyphse to the attractive influence of the growing point is indeed remarkable .
They often pass very near the rudiments of lateral roots , hut never enter them , and they never penetrate any considerable distance into a leaf .
The distribution of hyphse in the young ovary , as shown above , is another striking illustration of this close adaptation .
As to the relation between host and fungus in the grain generally , we have already seen that Guerin considers it as a true symbiosis .
As regards the usual life cycle , this is probably true , but the large hyphal layer of the grain , and the occasional penetrations of the endosperm , suggest vestigial indications that the action of the fungus is , or has been , at times injurious to the endosperm of the plant .
Otherwise the fungus seems ordinarily to exert an almost stimulating influence on the host .
Those grains which contain the fungus are , as described above , apparently better developed and larger .
The germination of the infected grains is , moreover , excellent , as all who have worked with Darnel agree .
No sufficient number of grains free from the fungus have been experimented with to allow of generalisations on this point , hut , so far as I have seen , the power of germination of uninfected grains is at least as great .
It may also be pointed out that the grains of L. are larger than those of other species of Lolium , and according to my experiments have a higher germination efficiency than those of L. and L. which are usually devoid of the fungus .
With the possible exception , therefore , of the ( as yet unknown ) cases in which spore or sclerotial formation may occur , the fungus is not injurious to the host , and it is even possibly of advantage .
It was natural to connect the phenomena here concerned with the remarkable hypothesis of so-called my coplasm .
The recent suggestion of Eriksson ( 14 ) , that the fungus of temulentum may exist in the grain-embryo in a mycoplasmic form , is based upon the incomplete researches of Nestler .
As I have already pointed out ( 13 ) , such a supposition is entirety unnecessary , since the hyphae can be very clearly seen in the grain-embryo , and throughout the life cycle of the grass .
Infection occurs by direct ingrowth of true hyphse , and no question of intracellular admixture of fungus and host-protoplasm can be entertained .
Moreover , the fungus here concerned has few or none of the characters of a Uredine .
If no spore or sclerotial development ever takes place , it is difficult to see how plants developed from fungus-free grains ( and such occur ) of L. temulentum can become infected .
In this case one might consider the present L. temulentum as consisting of two races , one with a symbiont , and the other fungus-free .
The macroscopic differences between the grains , as above described , accentuate this view .
The susceptibility to infection is probably not lost , however , unless the results of my graft experiments are due to mere coincidence ; the long-continued difference might conceivably lead to specific distinction .
It must remain for future research to test this point ; as already said , we may yet meet with some kind of spore-formation under special conditions , or possibly some sort of sclerotium may be found to occur when circumstances favour the fungus .
Meanwhile , however , it seems preferable to keep speculation within the hounds set by the observed facts .
Nature of the .
The nature of the fungus lias been the subject of some speculation , but little direct and positive evidence has been brought forward in proof of the various views .
The stated similarity of the physiological action of Darnel to that of " Taumel-getreide " of Woronin has led some observers to refer both to similar causes .
Nestler suggests that one of the numerous hyphomycetous saprophytes which , according to Woronin , cause " Taumelroggen , " may he identical with the fungus of Darnel .
There is really no foundation for such a supposition other than the similarity of physiological action .
The life-histories , and the effects of the fungi on the grains , are so very diverse that there can he little doubt that they are different forms .
The fungi of " Taumelgetreide " are saprophytic Hyphomycetes and Pyrenomycetes , which gain an entrance by the early death of the immature grain during very damp weather , and which shrivel the more or less dark-coated grains .
There is not the slightest similarity here with the effect of the fungus on Darnel .
Poisonous rye was also examined by Prillieux and Delacroix ( 10 ) , and attributed by them to a new fungus , which they described as temulentum .
Guerin , who has examined material of Endoconidium sent by Prillteux and Delacroix , states that it is not at all identical with the fungus of Darnel .
i Hanausek affirms that there is evidence that the fungus is a Ustilagine .
He does not , however , produce any evidence , except the formation of knots ( Knauel ) of hyphae in the ovary , and his figure of " Knauel " formation is anything but convincing in this respect .
He also cites the presence of various Ustilagineae in L. temulentum as evidence .
I have found no such knotting of hyphae to indicate the commencement of Ustilagine spore-formation .
There are , however , several points not observed by Hanausek which might possibly give colour to his conjecture .
The infrequency of septa , and the detailed appearance of the hyphae in the tissues of the young plant , are somewhat suggestive of an Ustilagine , but the abundant septation of the hyphae in the ovary , and the invariable intercellular course of the hyphae , are certainly different from the usual conditions in Ustilagineae ( 15 ) .
The real similarities to Ustilagineae are in the mode of invasion of the young plant , the continued on-growth of the hyphae at the growing point , and their dying off behind , and especially in the mode of invasion of the inflorescence and entrance into the ovaries .
The probabilities of relationship with the ergot of L. temulentum are very interesting .
The frequency of occurrence of ergots of in England* is * According to R. H. Bitten .
OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
strangely coincident with that of the fungus in the grain , e.g. , most abundant in L. temulentum , less so in L. perenne , and exceedingly rare in L. Moreover , the abundant septation of the hyphse in the grain is also suggestive .
Again , the occasional penetration of the endosperm lends a little colour to the supposition that the present conditions have arisen through a parasitic sclerotium-forming stage .
On the other hand , it must be pointed out that the physiological action of ergot and Darnel are dissimilar , and that the life-history of the Darnel fungus is different in detail from that of any known ergot ; and , finally , in the examination of ergoted material of Lolium*what were apparently young sphacelial stages showed no hyphal layer outside of the aleurone , and the hyphse , which permeated all tissues of the pericarp , nucellus , and endosperm , differed in character considerably from those of normal Darnel .
When pollination of young Darnel flowers is prohibited , the ovary remains small , and the entire nucellus , with the exception of the cushion of tissue bearing the infection layer , becomes transformed into a small dense mass of hyphse , somewhat suggestive of sclerotial formations .
Enough evidence is not yet to hand for generalisation from these experiments .
Numerous other experiments have also been started to induce spore or sclerotial formation , but up to the present without success .
The abundance and importance of apparently sterile fungus-hyphm in the life-histories of many orchids , and the rapidly increasing number of discoveries of mycorhizal forms , draw special attention to the strong probability of symbiosis in Darnel .
We have at present no conclusive evidence as to whether a plant from a fungus-free grain ever produces infected grains , or , on the other hand , whether a plant from an infected grain ever produces fungus-free grains .
Until this and other related points can be cleared up , the possibilities of spore-formation and infection can oidy he conjectured .
I wish , in conclusion , to express my great obligation and sincere thanks to Professor Marshall Ward , at whose suggestion this work was undertaken , and whose kindness in placing at my disposal all possible laboratory facilities and material , together with his very many helpful suggestions , have been invaluable in this investigation .
Bibliography .
1 .
Hofmeisteh.\#151 ; ' Archiv f. Exp. Path , und Pharm. , ' vol. 30 , 1892 .
2 .
Vogl , A. E.\#151 ; ' Zeitschrift fur Nahrungsmitteluntersuchung , Hygiene und Waarenkunde , ' vol. 12 , p. 28 ( January 23 ) , 1898 .
3 .
Hanausek , T. F.\#151 ; " Vorlaufige Mittheilung liber den von A. Vogl in der Frucht von Lolium temulentum entdeckten Pilz .
" ' Ber .
der Deut .
Bot. Ges .
, ' vol. 16 , p. 203 ( September 8 ) , 1898 .
* See p. 19 .
4 .
Nestler* A.\#151 ; " Ueber einen in der Frucht von L. , vorkommenden Pilz .
" ' Ber .
der Dent .
Bot. Gessell .
, ' vol. 1G , p. 207 ( September 22 ) , 1898 .
5 .
Guerin , P.\#151 ; " Sir la presence d'un Champignon dans l'lvraie .
" ' Journ. de Bot. , ' vol. 12 , pp. 230-238 ( August ) , 1898 .
6 .
Micheletti , L.\#151 ; " Sulla tossicita dei Semi di Lolium temulentum , L : " ' Bull .
d. Soc. Bot. Ital .
, ' vol. 6 , pp. 215-217 , 1901 .
7 .
Lee , A. B.\#151 ; The Microtomist 's Vade-mecum ' ( 5th Ed. ) , 1900 .
8 .
Zimmerman , A.\#151 ; 'Botanical Microtechnique , ' 1893 .
9 .
Ward , H. M.\#151 ; " The Ginger-beer Plant and the Organisms composing it .
" 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B , vol. 183 , p. 131 , 1892 .
10 .
Prilliettx , E.\#151 ; 'Maladies des Plants Agricoles , \amp ; c. , ' vol. 2 , p. 453 , 1897 .
11 .
Guerin , P.\#151 ; " A propos de la Presence d'un Champignon dans l'lvraie ( temulentum , L. ) .
" ' Journ. d. Bot. , ' vol. 12 , pp. 384-385 ( December ) , 1898 .
12 .
Woronin , M.\#151 ; " Ueber das ' Taumelge treble ' in Siidussurien .
" 'Bot .
Zeit .
, ' vol. 49 , p. 81 , 1891 .
13 .
Freeman , E. M.\#151 ; 'Nature , ' vol. 66 , No. 1696 , p. 7 , 1902 .
14 .
Eriksson , Jac.\#151 ; 'Ann .
des Sci. Not .
, ' Botanique , vol. 15 , p. 73 , 1602 .
15 .
Fischer von Waldheim , A.\#151 ; " Beitrage sir Biologie und Entwickelungsgeschichte der Ustilagineen .
" ' Prings .
Jahr .
fur Wiss .
Bot. , ' vol. 7 , 61-144 , 1869 .
Explanation of Plates .
All figures , except 1 , 2 , 34 and 35 , have been drawn with the aid of the camera lucida .
PLATE 1 .
Fig. 1 ( X 6 ) .
A normal grain of Lolium temulentum , outer surface , the convex or embryo side of the grain .
Fig. 2 ( X 6 ) .
Same from opposite side .
Fig. 3 ( X 11 ) .
Dissected embryo seen from the front of the cotyledon ; " " marks the end of the aleurone layer .
Fig. 4 ( X 11 ) .
Same from back of cotyledon ; a as before , = general limits of infection area .
In figures 5-8 the area in which the fungus is found is shaded .
Fig. 5 ( X 12 ) .
Median longitudinal section of a grain , h \#151 ; fungus in nucellus ; h ' = fungus of infection layer ( for areas in embryo see fig. ] 6 ) ; a = aleurone ; b = fused pericarp pale and integuments ; 6. .
..6 , 7 ... .
7 , \amp ; c. , mark position of sections in figures 6-9 .
Figs. 6-9 ( X 22 ) .
Cross-sections at levels indicated in fig. 5 ; letters as in fig. 5 OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
and v = vascular bundle of inner pale ; s = scutellum ; d = coleorhiza , r = root ; l = leaf-sheath ; c = area of hyphse at base of the growing point ; e = starch endosperm .
Fig. 10 ( x 425 ) .
Detail of the growing point of the embryo , showing nucleated cells with delicate walls , stained with Haidenhain 's hsematoxylin .
= nucleoli of intercellular fungus hyphse ; h = heavily stained hyphse at surface ; a = outline of growing point .
Fig. 11 ( x 425 ) .
Same as fig. 12 , hut stained with aniline-water-safranin ; h = hyphse in longitudinal view ; h ' = hyphse in cross-section .
Fig. 12 ( x 425 ) .
Same as fig. 11 , but from base of hyphal cone ; shows abundance of cross-sections of hyphse .
Fig. 13 ( x 425 ) .
Cross-section of embryo at lower part of the growing point ( c , fig. 8 ) hsematoxylin .
Fig. 14 ( x 205 ) .
Longitudinal section of the growing point , showing direction of the hyphse toward the infection layer ; h \#151 ; hyplia ; \#151 ; vascular bundle of sheath ( hsematoxylin ) .
Fig. 15 ( 425 ) .
Detail from a longitudinal section of an embryo through area k of fig. 16 ( hsematoxylin ) .
Fig. 16 ( + 425 ) .
Median longitudinal section of the embryo with the aleurone layer of the grain in the region of the infection area still attached ; a \#151 ; aleurone ; b = outline of hyphal area ; r = root ; c \#151 ; coleorhiza ; d = base of hyphal cone in the growing point ; e = epithelium ; s scutellum ; sv = vascular bundle of the scutellum ; l = leaf-sheath ; g = growing point ; h = area of hyphse of the grain nucellus ; ti infection layer .
The area occupied by the fungus has a dotted outline .
Fig. 17 ( X 45 ) .
Median longitudinal section through the growing point of a 17-day seedling ; V \#151 ; 1st leaf ( sheath ) ; \#151 ; P 2nd to 4th leaves ; Z5 = inception of 5th leaf ; g = growing point ; 2 and bz \#151 ; buds in axils of 2nd and 3rd leaves ; ( for Z/ see fig. 18 ) ; a = outline ( dotted line ) of hyphal area , at c it evaginates toward fig. 18 ; \#151 ; network of hyphse in leaf base ; Iv = vascular bundle of leaf ; r \#151 ; lateral root ; n \#151 ; 1st node above the scutellum ; ep = top of epicotyl ( hsematoxylin ) .
Fig. 18 ( x 45 ) .
Axil of 1st leaf of same series as fig. 17 : bud ; a = hyphal area ( dotted line ) .
Figs. 19-21 ( 19 = X 755 , 20 and 21 = X 1400 ) .
Detail of hyphse from the leaf base network .
Host cells are somewhat shrunken in fig. 19 .
( Flemming 's weaker fluid without staining .
) PLATE 2 .
( Figs. 22-27 , inclusive , are all overstained in hsematoxylin , the hyphse staining homogeneously and very dark .
They are similarly lettered .
) VOL. CXCVI.\#151 ; B. E Fig. 22 ( X 452 ) .
A longitudinal section through the infection area ; c = epidermis of the scutellum ; a = aleurone layer , which is here doubled by bending hack , and a ' \#151 ; inside layer ; h = hyphae in grain nucellus ; = hyphae of infection layer ( at h " a hypha penetrates the aleurone layer ) ; p = hyphae of infection layer penetrating between the epidermal cells of the scutellum ; e \#151 ; remnants of cells of endosperm ; at the grain nucellus comes into direct contact with the embryo .
Fig. 23 ( x 425 ) .
Longitudinal section of an infection area with a single aleurone layer .
Fig. 24 ( x 455 ) .
Cross-section of embryo through the infection area , ( in same region as fig. 8 ) .
Fig. 25 ( x 755 ) .
Detail of hyphal region of infection layer ; hyphae are penetrating on both sides of one cell of the scutellum epidermis .
Figs. 26 and 27 ( x 425 ) .
Detail of consecutive sections showing the penetration and continuance of an infecting hypha .
( Figs. 28-32 are from material fixed in chromic acid , 1 per cent. , cut in the freezing microtome and mounted in glycerine unstained ; they are similarly lettered .
) Fig. 28 ( X 425 ) .
Detail of cross-section of outer part of a grain which has been in a germinating chamber 24 hours .
I = pale ; \#151 ; pericarp ; i = crushed integuments ; o = outer rows of nucellar cells ; b = cavities in the nucellus ( probably old cell lumina ) ; Ji = hyphae ; a = aleurone ; e = starch-endosperm .
Fig. 29 ( X 755 ) .
Detail of cross-section of a grain in which no fungus was present .
Figs. 30 , 31 and 32 ( 30 and 32 = X 425 , 31 = X 755 ) .
Detail of cross-sections of grains in the germinating chamber about 9 days , showing stages in the disintegration of the nucellar hyphae ; h ' = cavities left by the disappearance of hyphae .
Fig. 33 ( X 1400 ) .
Hypha from a 6-day grain ( haematoxylin ) .
Fig. 34 ( X 530 ) .
Dissected hyphae from the nucellus of the grain to show method of branching .
Fig. 35 ( x 530 ) .
Dissected hyphae which have been in a hanging drop of beer-wort gelatine , 2 per cent. , for 3 days .
Fig. 36 ( X 755 ) .
Hypha from a 24-hour grain , abundance of septation .
PLATE 3 .
Figs. 37-39 ( x 755 ) .
Cross-section of grains with hyphae penetrating the cell walls of the aleurone layer and invading the starch endosperm ( swollen with potassium hydrate and stained with iodine ) , fig. 37 \#151 ; through the aleurone ; fig. 38 = in the starch region , and 39 shows the peculiar OF LOLIUM TEMULENTUM , L. , THE DARNEL .
branching in the latter region ( cell walls not shown ) , li hyphal layer of grain nucellus , al = aleurone layer ; = starch cell ; w \#151 ; wall of starch cell ; a = knot formation in an intercellular space .
Fig. 40 ( X 22 ) .
A longitudinal section of a very young inflorescence ( .
ternu-lentum , variety arvense).The entire system is permeated with hyphse .
Fig. 41 ( x 45 ) .
Longitudinal section of the last two nodes of a spikelet .
= last and sterile node ; m = internode ; h = ( dotted line ) hyphal area ; ip = inner pale ; carp = carpel ; v = ovule ; = stamen ; op = outer pale .
Figs. 42-46 ( 42-44 = X45 ; 45 and 46 = Xl2 ) .
Illustrate the development of the ovule and the grain .
Letters as in 41 .
The areas of denser aggregations of hyphse are shaded ; int = integuments ; ant = group of antipodal cells ; i , i \#151 ; infection layer ; ov \#151 ; egg cell ; emb = embryo ; emb .
sac = embryo sac ; endo = endosperm ; f funicle .
Figs 42 = tangential , and 43 = median longitudinal sections from the same ovary .
43 contains an embryo-sac with eight cells ; in 45 the embryo is still an undifferentiated ovoid body , and the walls of the endosperm cells have not all been formed ; in 46 only the densely compacted hyphse can be seen ; the embryo is here about 300/ / , in length and has rudiments of the scutellum and growing point .
Fig. 47 ( X 755 ) .
Detail of cross-section through the ovary of fig. 43 ; peri inner wall of the carpel ; i. int .
= inner integument ; o. int .
\#151 ; outer integument ; ep = epidermis of the nucellus ; h \#151 ; hyphse in denser external region ; h ' \#151 ; hyplia in cross-section ; cent. = central large-celled region .
Fig. 48 ( X 755 ) .
Longitudinal section of the egg cell end of the embryo sac with the nucellus on the inner ( = axis ) side of the ovule , from stage of fig. 43 ; h \#151 ; hypha ( future infection layer ) ; = wall of embryo sac ; ov = egg cell nucleus .
Fig. 49 ( x 755 ) .
Longitudinal section of an ovule , the wpper end of fig. 45 .
Shows central region with the embryo sac crowding the hyphse into an accumulating layer ; a = wall of the emhryo sac .
Fig. 50 ( x 755 ) .
Hyphse from section of fig. 45 .
Nuclei and septation abundant .
Occasionally a hypha is much swollen .
Fig. 51 ( x 272 ) .
Detail of the embryo region of fig. 46 .
Shows hypha which has just reached the growing point , and its origin in the infection area ; g. pt .
= growing point ; sc .
\#151 ; scutellum ; endo \#151 ; starch endosperm ; = the aleurone , which is commencing to differentiate ; i. = inner integument ; nuc = nucellus ; h = hypha of Freeman Phil. Trans. B , VoL196 , 1 .
I 'd P. !
Park\#171 ; r litk Parker \lt ; fc West imp .
Freeman .
Phil Trans. B , Vol.l96 , VIZ .
Q ) , )3W---0 MP .
ParW litk .
Parker k W*st iimp Phil. Trans. B.Vol.196 , Pl.3 .
-peri .
- .
_ Parktr \lt ; fc West imp .

