On Burrowing and Boring Marine Animals .
By Edward Osler , Esq. Communicated February 15 , 1826 , by L. W. Dillwyn , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 25 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , p. 342 .
] The author 's object in this paper is to describe the mechanism by which the boring and burrowing shell-fish form their habitations , and to explain some parts respecting the burrowing of other marine animals .
After showing that the Nereides bury themselves by the undulating motion which they employ in swimming , aided by the action of their bristly feet , and that the Arenicola piscatorum forms its imperfect arenaceous tube by the aid of a viscid secretion which exudes from the anterior half of the animal , he particularly describes the habits of the Terebella conchilega , showing that by a glutinous secretion it cements together particles of shells and sand , so as to form a collar , which is regularly and curiously lengthened into a tube ; and when this is about an inch in length the animal proceeds to burrow ; and having completely concealed itself , is soon found to have turned within the tube .
Mr. Osler describes the manner in which this motion is effected by reference to an annexed drawing .
T'he Spatangus buries itself chiefly by the action of its bristles , while the long dorsal spines prevent the sand from closing entirely , and preserve a small round hole , by which water is admitted to the animal , and which marks its situation .
The author next describes the burrowing of bivalves .
The animal projects the foot into the sand , and then gives a circular motion to the shell , sinking at every stroke till nothing but the extremity of the syphon can be perceived above the sand .
This motion is effected by two appropriate pairs of muscles arising from the shell , and inserted into the foot , the position and actions of which are explained by reference to a drawing .
The locomotive bivalves travel by a series of motions similar to those of burrowing , as seen in the Venus gallina , the Anodonta cygncea , &amp;c. The Buccinum undatum , though not habitually residing under the sand , is so often observed to bury itself as to come within the author 's arrangement : as in the bivalves , its foot is the instrument of penetration , and , like them , it can distend that organ to nearly the size of the shell ; the author describes its anatomy by the help of annexed drawings .
He also enters into a detailed account of the peculiarities of structure of the Pholas , which has two methods of boring .
The first is almost exclusively employed by the young animal ; it fixes itself by the foot , and having raised itself almostperpendicularly , executes a succession of rotatory motions ; but when the animal is older , the foot being attached as before , it brings the anterior points of the shell so as to press its operative part against the bottom of the hole , and then the dorsal margins of the valves are brought into contact , so that the rasp-like portions scrape over the substance on which they press .
In the Teredo , the peculiarities of structure observed in the Pholas exist in an equally marked degree .
Mr. Osler next describes four species of Lithophagi , of which the SaJxicava rugosa is so abundant at Swansea , as to induce him to take it as the type of the family .
Its general structure resembles that of the burrowing bivalves , but it does not admit of boring by any rotatory motion ; and several other facts show that the shell is not the instrument by which it penetrates hard substances , such , for instance , as the absence of any arrangement of muscles for the purpose , and it being able to penetrate certain substances only , all of which are of a calcareous nature .
Hence the author concludes , that the perforating power of the Lithophagi is referrible to chemical rather than to mechanical causes ; and he refers it to some peculiar secretion which the animal forms , and which readily destroys carbonate of lime , whilst siliceous and argillaceous stones resist its action .
In conclusion Mr. Osler remarks , that he has made many experiments with a view to detect the nature of the solvent : lie shows that it is not of an acid nature ; nor has he been able to detect any peculiar soluble compound of luine in portions of water , in which many Saxicavae had been confined , together with a portion of calcareous rock ; yet though such direct proofs are wanting , he considers the collateral evidence as quite satisfactory in proving that a true solvent power over calcareous matter is exerted by those animals .

