]\gt ; hydrogen is determined at eviven temperature by the concentration of hydrogen and that of the water yapour produced by the reduction .
Thus , if the equation:\mdash ; denotes the concentration of the hydrogen and that of the water vapour .
we have the relation:\mdash ; where is a constant at any given temperature .
If can be arranged to be greater than , the reaction expressed in the above equation proceeds from left to right .
This state of affairs may be realised:\mdash ; ( a ) By increasing the pressure of the hydrogen present .
( b ) By diminishing the pressure of the water vapour formed during the reaction .
If the reaction is endothermic , by raising the temperature , when the value of is diminished according to va n't Hoffs equation , whence ln const .
Here represents the heat absorbed by the progress of the reaction at the temperature in question .
If therefore is positive , or the reaction is endothermic , is diminished ith the rise in temperature and the change shown in the above equation proceeds from left to right .
The work described in the present paper was undertaken with the object of seeing how far these theoretical considerations can be applied practically , and also of preparing pure metals or lower oxides of metals free from impurities which are unavoidably present in such substances when prepared by other means . .
' to remove 150,000 litres of gas from 1 .
of , a process requiring least four months ' continuous working , further experiment on these line abandoned .
Part 2.\mdash ; Reaction between Refractory and Eydrogen at High Temperatures and Pressures .
Experiments on the following oxides were carried out with the apparatus shown in fig. 1:\mdash ; sample of Merck 's specially pure chromium oxide was heated to redness in a quartz crucible , cooled in a desiccator , and about .
2 .
placed in the experimental crucible of magnesia or alumina .
air was displaced from the furnace by passing in hydrogen to about 30 atmospheres pressure and after a time allowing it to escape .
The hydrogen pressure was then raised to 100 atmospheres and a current of 17 amperes , at 40 volts , passed through the tungsten wire , all cases was about 50 cm .
in length .
The walls of the furnace were cooled by a current of cold water passing round them .
After five hours ' heating , it was allowed to cool and the furnace opened .
The greater part of the had been reduced to the which was well crystallised in needle-shaped crystals .
At the of the crucible , small quantity of metallic chromium was found mixed with the monoxide .
The temperature attained was very high , over 2000o C. near the bottom of the crucible .
The crucible itself was partially fused and shrunk considerably where the temperature had been greatest , while the magnesia packing was : volatilised near the tungsten wire and condensed again in small transparent crystals forming a hollow crust round the lower part of the orucible .
hydrochloric or sulphuric acid .
Its chemical and physical properties be identical with those of metallic vanadium , and only a estimation of the vanadium present was capable of proving that the substance really was the monoxide .
This crystalline form of the monoxide does not appear to have been prepared before .
A further experiment with proved conditions gave a mass of monoxide with clean well-formed crystals in the hottest part of the crucible , but further reduction could not be produced .
Uranium Oxide.\mdash ; A sample of pure was heated to ness , cooled , and placed in a magnesia crucible as before .
Several attempts were made to reduce this , but even with long contin heating to a temperature of over C. with 150 atmospheres hydrogen pressure , the reduction could not be carried further than the dioxide .
This was in the form of a blaok semi-crystalline substance , insoluble in acids , with the exception of strong nitric acid , in which it dissolved with evolution of brown fumes .
When heated in the air on ] atinum foil , it glowed , swelled up , and fell to a black powder .
No evidence of the presence of metal could be obtained .
Some magnesium uranate appears to be formed at the same time .
Thoria , Zirconia , and Yttria.\mdash ; Samples of each of these were treated in the same way as the uranium oxide , but no evidence of reduction could be obtained : Titanic Acid.\mdash ; Pure titanic acid was heated in a magnesia crucible with a pressure of 130 atmospheres of hydrogen .
Some of the substance was absorbed by the magnesia of the crucible , yielding a bluish-white magnesium titanate round the upper part of the crucible .
The remainder was converted into a rod of well cryetallised black monoxide , , which was completely coated with the gold-coloured mono-nitrids , evidently formed from $h small quantity of nitrogen which is always present in commercial " " pure hydrogen .
Cerium \mdash ; This oxide , , was obtained by igniting the nitrate .
When treated as before , with 130 atmospheres hydrogen it was completely converted into the pale yellow-green uioxidd : FIG. 1 .
Soc. Proc. , , vol. 92 , Plate 1 .
FIG. 4 .

