]\gt ; V. On the Locus of Points Lines in connection with the Theory of the Locus of Uttimate Intersections of stem M. J. M. HILL , M.A. , Sc. D. , Professor of rsify Professor , F.R.S. Received Octobeltend N IN a paper " " On bhe c- and -Discriminants of Integrable Diffcrential Equationoe of the First Order published in vol. 19 of the ' Proceedings of the London MathematicaI Society , ' the factors which occur in the -discriminant of an equation of the form , where is a ational integral function of are determined analytically .
It is shown*that if be the equation of the envelope locus of the curves ; if be the equation of .
node-locus ; if be the equation of their cusp-locus , then the factors of the discriminant are The singularities sidered are those whose forms depend on the terms of the second degree only , when the origin of ates is at the singular point .
The object of this paper is to extend these results to surfaces .
It is well known that if the equation of a system of surfaces contain arbitrary parameters , and if a locus of ultimate intersections exist , then there nnot be more , than two independent parameters .
Hence the investigation falls naturally two parts : the first is the case where there is only one independent parameter , and the second is the case where there are two .
The investigation given in this paper is limited to the case in which the tion is rational and integral , both as regards the coordinates and the parameters .
* The theorem was originally given by Professor CAYLEY in the ' Messenger of Mathematics , ' vol. 2 , 1872 , pp. 6-12 .
An abstract of the contents of this paper has been printed in the Proceedings , vol. 60 , pp. 180-186 .
A table of coutents will be fonnd below , pp. 274-278 .
RT TION OF OF SURFACES IS A RATIONAL INTEGRAL FUNCTION OF COORDINATES AND ONE ARB ] TRARY PARAMETER .
I. CTORS WHICH IN GENERAL C0R11ESP0ND To ENVLLOPL AND SINGULAR LINE LOCI .
Art .
1.\mdash ; To shoxo if be of the Envelope Locus , the Discrimi . . . . . .
( 1 ) , where are the coordinates , the parameter , and is supposed to be a rational integlal function of , 7/ , partial differentiation when are treated as independent variables by , the locus of uItimate -ections can be obtained by eliminating between ( 1 ) and . . . . .
( 2 ) .
Let the roots of ) treated as an equation in be , . .
, which will at first be supposed to be all different , so that they do not Then if be a factor introdnced to make the discriminant , obtained by eliminating between ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the proper order and weight , . .
( 3 ) .
Let satisfy ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) when Suppose becomef , when herefore , ( 4 ) , .
( 5 ) .
Now in put ; and cousequently , therefore becomes vanishes .
Therefore vanishes when The next step is to show locus of ultimate is the envelope .
Write , for brevity , . . . . .
( 6 ) .
AND LINES IN THE TNTECRSECTIONS OF A OF SURFACES .
143 Now denoting tion when ] , are the on-y independent bless by Hence , since satisfies ( 2 ) . . . .
( 7 ) , assuming that vanishes ) vanishes .
Now when , therefore .
( 8 ) .
Hence when ( 9 ) .
Now the tangent plane to the surface . . . . .
( 10 ) at the point is . . . . .
( 11 ) .
Now stands for , when .
And the value of , i.e. , , when , and , therefore , is the same as the value of Df , when This may be expressed IJence the tangent planes to the surfaces at point coincide .
This proves the envelope propertv in general for the locus of uItimate intersections .
Hence vanishes , if in it be made respectively equa ] to , the coordinates of any point on the envelope-locus .
Therefore contains as a factor .
But the conclusion fails if ( 12 ) .
Hence work itself suggests the examination of this exceptional case , i.e. , where locus of singular points or lines exists .
Example Locns .
Let the surfaces be ( A. ) The The discriminant is found by eliminating between the above equation , and Hence the di.scriminant is .
Hence the locus of ultimate intersections is ( B. ) The envelope locus is For let be any point on Let , and consider the single surface Put Then the lowest terms in X , are Hence the surface considered touches at Hence is the envelope .
It touches the surface at every point of the curve .
Hence this cllrve is the characteristic .
AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
\mdash ; To prove that the Locus of Conic Nodes of the is , not At every point of the locus of conic nodes the equatiol . . . . . . .
( 13 ) , ( 14 ) , ( 15 ) , . . . . .
( 16 ) , are simultaneously satisfied .
In general these are satisfied by a finite number of values of only .
Hence there are only a finite nunlber of conic nodes .
The next case is that in which equations ( 13 ) are equivalent to three dent equations only , and then it is possible to satisfy them by relations of the form , , . . . . .
( 17 ) .
In this case there is a curve locus of conic nodes .
But as such a locus is defined by two equations , it cannot be determined by equating a factor of ) discriminant to zero .
The next case is that in which equations ( 13 ) are alent to two independent equations only .
Eliminating between these , the equation of a surface is btained .
This is the case which will be further examined , and it will be shown that the tangent cone at every conic node must break up into two planes , i. e. , the conic node becomes a binode .
* Let be the conic node on the surface ( 10 ) .
Let be the conic node on the consecutive surface ( 18 ) .
Then . . .
( 19 ) , , * In this connection may be noticed Art .
11 , in which it is proved that if a surface have upon it a line at point of which there is a conic node , then the tangent cone at every conic node must brcak up into two planes so that the line is a binodal line .
PROFESSOR M. J. M. ON SINGULAR POINTS ( 21 ) , ( 22 ) , the equations ined from ( 19 ) by ging into Denoting differential coefficients by brackets containing the independent variables , with regard to which the tions are pet.formed , these last equations become by means of ( 19 ) S. . . . . . . . . . .
, SSS . . .
( 24 ) , SSS . . .
( 25 ) , SSSS ( 26 ) .
By ( 23 ) , Ci at every point of conic node locus .
Hen ce the co-ordinates of every point on the conic node locus satisfy the equation of the locus of ultimate intersections .
* Further , since at eyery point on the conic node locus , the corresponding equation is satisfied at the conic node on the .
Hence SSSS . . .
( 27 ) .
Since equations must giye consistent values for S : S : S : S , it follows that Jaco bian ( 28 ) .
*I am indcbted t , o onSYTH for following example:\mdash ; Leb the be The discriminant is Hence the locus of ultimate intersections of the es These planes intersect in the line , which is the locus of conical points of the surfac AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM QURFACES .
If this were the only relation between these equations , they would determine the ratios S : S : S : S. Hence there would be a curve locus , not a surface locus of conic ) If , then , there be a surface locus , equations ( 24 ) must be equivalent to two independent equations only .
Expressing that ( 24 ) are eqniyalent to two independent equations only , it follows that ( 29 ) .
But this is the condition that the tangent cone at the conio node should break up 1nto two planes , and then the conic node becomes a binode .
Hence there cannot be a surface locus of conic , unless the conic nodes become binodes .
Since equations ' 16 are equivalent to two independent equations only , every .
on the intersection of the surfaces represented by ( 1.3 ) and ( 14 ) is a the surface ( 13 ) .
JIence has a binodal line .
The locus of these binodal lines is a surface at every point of which equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) re satisfied , hence it is a part of the locus of ultimate intersections , and its equation can be determined by equating a factor of the discriminant to zero .
Art .
3.\mdash ; To find the conditions which hold at every point on a of Binodal Lines .
In this case ( 29 ) holds .
Hence , in order that ( 24)-(26 ) may give finite values for S : S : S : S , ( 30 ) , , .
Now ( 30 ) shows that ( 27 ) depends on ( 24 ) and ( 25 ) .
Hence , in this case , the four equations ) are equivalent to two endent uions only , ich is obvious since ( 13-16 ) are equivalent to two independent equations only .
Art .
4.\mdash ; To find the conditions which every point on Surface Locus of Uno es .
At such a the tangent cone , whose equation is breaks up into two coincident planes .
Hence . . . . .
( 34 ) .
Of the four equations ( 24 ) , which are satisfied when there is a surface locus of binodal lines , it has already been shown that only two are independent .
The same equations hold when there is a locus of unodal lines .
Multiply ( 24 ) by , ( 25 ) by , subtract and use ( 34 ) .
Then , @ ( :$5 ) , ( 36 ) .
Similarly ( 37 ) .
By ( 34 ) and ( 36 ) it follows that ( 25 ) depends on ( 24 ) .
By(34 ) and ( 37 ) it follows that ( 26 ) depends .
By ( 34 ) , ( 36 ) , ( 37 ) , it follows that , if the values of S : S : S : S satisfying ( 24 ) are finite , then ( 27 ) depends on ( 24 ) , and the following ratios hold : .
( 38 ) .
In this case , then , ( 24 ) are equivalent to one independent equation only .
It may be noticed that in the case in which ( 39 ) , AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A OF SURFACES .
in order that ( 27 ) may be satisfied , . . . . . .
( 40 ) .
And now ( 27 ) becomes an identical equation .
It does not depend on ( 24 ) .
Art .
of the Discriminamt , and its Differential Coefficients , when Locus of Lines exists .
Proof that contains as Let be a point on the binoda ] line on the surface ( 10 ) .
Then when Hence by ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) , when Similarly Hence if be the tion of the surface locus of binodal lines , contains as a factor .
of Binodal Lines .
Let the surfaces be A. The This is found by eliminating between the above , and Hence the discriminant is Hence the locus of ultimate intersections is B. Locus of Binodal Lines is Let be any point on the surface PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON THE LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS Take and consider the single surface Put Then the lowest terms in X , This up into two factol .
S of the firsb degree in X , Hence is a binode on the surface considered .
Now the only relation satisfied by Hence any point , on the surface , is a binode on Hence every point of intel.section of the surfaces and is a node on the latter surface .
The equations of the binodal line of this surface are , therefore , This accounts for the occurrence of the factor in C. The Envelope Locus This may be oved as in Example 1 .
Art the its Coefficients , when Locus of Lines exists .
Proof as a factor .
Differentiating ( 7 ) with regard to and ( 41 ) , AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
1.5 ] ' ( 42 ) .
To find it is necessary to use equation ( 43 ) .
This ( 44 ) , ( 45 ) .
Now reserving the case , according to the remarks in the Abstract ( ' Proc. Roy .
, oc .
, vol. 50 , p. 180 ) and Art .
1 , in which ( 46 ) , for further consideration , because , in this case , , both become infinite or indeterminate , it follows that , ( 47 ) , ( 48 ) .
Hence ( 49 ) , Hence , if be a unode on the surface ( 10 ) , and become equal to when , then by means of ( 38 ) , when Similarly all the other second differential coefficients of with to.x , vanish when Hence , if be the equation of the surface locus of unodal lines , contains as a factor .
Example ) \mdash ; Locus of Unodal Lines .
Let the surfaces be The The discriminant is found by eliminating between the above and Hence it is Hence the locus of ultimate intersections is ( B. ) The Locus of Lines Let be any point on the locus Let , and consider the single surface Put ; then the lowest terms in X , are Hence is a unode on the surface Hence is the locus of unodal lines on the surfaces The unodal line on any one of the surfaces is given by the equations This accounts for the occurrence of the factor in the discriminant .
AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
SECTION II .
Arts .
\mdash ; CONSIDERATION OF THE CASES RESERVED IN WHICH TWO ROOTS OF THE EQUATION BECOME EQUAL AT ANY POINT ON THE LOCUS 0F ULTIMATE INTERSECTONS .
Art .
7.\mdash ; Consideration of the exceptional of the Envelope Locus , in which two consecutive characteristics coincide .
( A. ) It will be shown that this is the case reserved in Art .
1 , viz. , where .
The geometrical meaning of the condition will first of all be determined .
The surface intersects the surface where S is indefinitely nall in the curve whose equations are This curve is called a characteristic .
The equations of the next characteristic are obtained by changing into in the above : Hence they are Now , if the two consecutive cs coincide , at every point of the coinciding characteristics .
Hence , the characteristic counts three times over as an intersection of the ] and the surface , instead of twice as in the ordinary case .
( B. ) It is now necessary to repeat the investiglltion in the case in equation ( 2 ) has equal roots when , the co-ordinates of a point on the locus of ultimate intersections .
In this case , may be written .
( 51 ) where are the roots of ( 2 ) which become equal when Therefore , ( 52 ) .
Now if it be assumed ( see immediately below , under C ) that the terms vanish , then when , it follows , and , therefore , , and herefore , contains as a factor .
of the term from ( 47 ) this term becomes is of the form , where all become equal to the same as when Hcnce , taking as infinitesimal of the order the difference in the values of the parameter at the points and , it follows that is of the third order of small quantities .
of the Second , and of the first .
Hence , assuming that is not infinite , it follows that the term under investigation is of the fourtl ] order , and therefore vanishes ultimately .
Example Locus when ecutive C'istics coincide .
Let the surfaces be ( A ) .
, Discriminant .
The nant is found by eliminating between the above and Hen AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF Hence the locus of ultimate intersections is ( B ) .
The Envetope Locus such that two consecutive racteristics coincide is Let be any point on O. Take , and consider the single surface Put : then the lowest terms in X , are Hence the tangent plane to the surface at is also the tangent plane to Hence is he envelope , and the equations of the line of contact are .
Now the equations corresponding to are These are all satisfied by the coordinates of any point on the line of contact .
Hence two consecutive characteristics coincide .
This accounts for the factor in the discriminant .
Art .
8.\mdash ; Consideration of Loci of Lines , which also ( A. ) It will be shown that this is the case reserved in Art .
1 , viz. , where The equation of the biplanes is ( 53 ) .
This breaks up by ( 29 ) into the two planes PROF , J. M. ON THIB LOCUS OF SINGULAR POTNTS .
Now since cquation ( 27 ) depends on ( 24 ) and ( 25 ) , therefore . . .
55 .
Putting , this becomes .
Therefore ( 57 ) .
Hence the equation of one of the biplanes is .
( 58 ) .
Now if be a point on the locus of binodal lines near to , it follows by ( 24 ) and ( 25 ) that SS . . . . .
( 59 ) .
Hence the tangent plane to the locus of lines takes the same form as ( 58 ) .
Hencc the tangent plane to the locus of binodal lines is the as one of the Hence the locus of lines is also an envelope .
( B. ) The converse proposition , viz. , that if the locus of binodal lines be also an envelope , then ] , will now be ) roved .
As before , the eqnations of the biplanes are given by ( 54 ) , and the tangent plane to the locus of binodal lines takes the same form as .
If , then , the locus of binodal lines be also an envelope ( 60 ) , therefore ( 61 ) .
AND LTNES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYST I I SURFACES .
The equation ( 61 ) is the same as ( 56 ) .
Comparing it with ( 55 ) , which holds when a locus of binodal lines exists , it follows that ( 62 ) .
Hence , or ( 63 ) .
If ( 63 ) hold , then by ( 61 ) erefore Making use of these with ( 24 ) and ( 25 ) , it each of these fractions is equal to Hence ( 24 ) and ( 25 ) are equivalent to one equation only .
But it was sbown that ( 26 ) and ( 27 ) } on ( 24 ) and ( 25 ) .
Hence ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) , ( 27 ) all depend on ( 24 ) .
Hence the ratios ( 38 ) hold , and therefore there is a locus of unodal lines .
But this is not the case under consideration , for it is supposed that there is a locus of binodal , not unodal , lines .
Hence ( 63 ) not satisfied , and , therefore , ( C. ) In this case the values of , given by ( 47 ) ) , are really infinite , for does not vanish necessarily , but lently the differential coefficients of require further examination .
Now Since does not necessarily vanish , it must be shown that at points on the locus of binodal lines ; i. e. , when , the coordinates of any poinb on the locus of binodal lines .
Now are the roots of which become equal when In this case is an equation for , such that three values become equal when They become equal same value J. M. HILL ON THE LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS Put , therefore , ( 64 ) , where become equal when .
Therefore ( 65 ) , . . . . . . . .
( 66 ) .
Now , at a point on the locus of binodal lines , the two equal values of which make , become equal to the same thing as Hence , where is what becomes , when is changed into Hence is of the third order of small quantities ; but is of the first order , for the most important term in it is Hence ( 67 ) at points on the locus of binodal lines .
In like manner , but ( 69 ) at points on the locus of binodal lines .
AND IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A OF ACES .
159 ( D ) .
It should be noticed that in the preceding section ( C ) , the of the first order is the increr1Ient in the value of , a root of when receive increments S , S , S respectively ; and in ) articular that it is not of the same order as S , S , S. if Sa be the increment in the value , then @@ S@ @@@@@ S2 SS . .
: . . . . . . . . . .
: Now because , this tion call be -ritten in the form S where the suflixes denote the order of terms , when S , S , S are taken to be of the first Hence , if denote an infinitely small quantity of the first order in S , S , S , then S is of the order And now , when , and becomes @[@@ @@ @@@@@ @@@@ ( @ ) @ @ @@@@@ @@@ @ lfencG of the order when In like 1nanner .
wl1en SSOR M. J. M. ON THE LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS @@@ Now S ' can be shown to be of the order , in the same way that Sa was showrl to be of this order .
Hence is of the order Hence the same results as those given in ( 67 ) , ( 68 ) , ( 69 ) follow .
of th rential fficients of Differentiating wibh regard to ( 70 ) .
Hence the vanishes by ( 67 ) at points on the locus of binodal lines .
Hence at ) oints on the locus of binodal lines , if it be assumed that is finite .
This assumption can be made if be finite , Again , diflerentiating ( 70 ) with regard to ( 71 ) .
AND LINES IN CTION S OF A OF SURFACES .
this case the infinite quantity occurs in the term 1 ) Now ib been shown in ( 67 ) that both vanish , does not vanish at points on the locus of binodal lines .
Ifence does not vanish .
Similarly ) , not vanish .
The order of the term cannot be determined in a ) erfectly general way , for although ) , yet it contains ) } , which may be infinite , since are ] functions of the coordinates .
These results point to conclusion that does not at all points on the locus of binodal lines .
This is readily proved in particular cases .
( See Example 5 below .
) Hence , at points on the locus of binodal lines , ; but Hence , if be the equation of the locus of binodal lines , when that locus is an envelope , contains as a factor .
Example 5.\mdash ; Locus of Binodal Lines which is also Envelope .
Let the surfaces be ( A. ) The Discrimin The discriminant is found by eliminating between the above and The last equation gives Hence the eliminant is Hence the locus of ultimate intersections is ( B. ) The locus of Lines ( thich is also Envelope ) is For let be any point on Take , and consider the single surface Put ; then the lowest terms in X , are Hence the origin is a binode .
Hence is the locus of binodal lines .
Further , because the biplanes are , when the origin is at the binode , AND IN OF A S. The first of these touches the locus of binodal hnes .
Hence the locus of binodal lines is also an envelope .
Hence the factor of the discriminant is accounted for .
( C. ) The is an For seeking its intersection with it follows that Put therefore thel.efore . .
, O. Consider any point on the surface for which and The equation of the tangent plane at such a point is This reduces to which is equivalent to Hence it touche , Hence is an envelope .
This accounts for the factor in the ninant .
( D ) .
of the for thas Tlue equation ) is , in this case , Hence satisfies and is determined by Hence , at a point on the locus of binodal lines , i.e. , where , it follows that is iniinite .
Calculating , it follows that it is Hence , is equal to t , he of at the point on a IOCLIS of binodal lines .
Hence it is finite .
( E ) .
tion of the , In this case are the roots of erefore , Hence Hence .
AND LINES IN THE INTERSECT[ONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFAC } I Hence , at points on th .
locus of binodal lines , i. e. , ; Art .
9.\mdash ; Consideration of Loci of Unodal Lines ) ( A. ) It will be shown that this is the reserved in Art .
1 , , where For if , be in the tios ( , it follows that Substituting these in ( 24 ) , it SS . . . .
( 72 ) , SSS . . . . .
( 73 ) , SS . . . . .
( 74 ) .
Now ( 72 ) are equivalent to equation only by ( 38 ) .
Hence the tangent plane to the locus of unoda ] lines is Now the tangent cone at is giyen by .
The left-hand side of its equation is by ( 38 ) a perfect Hence the uniplane is . . .
( 75 ) .
Hence the uniplane is the same as the tallgent plane to the locus of unodal lines .
Hence the locus of unodal lines is also an envelope .
( B. ) The converse proposition , viz. , that if the locus of unodal lines be also an envelope , then , will now be proved .
If be a point on the locus of unodal lines near to then the equations ( 34 ) hold .
If , locus of unodal lines be also an envelope , then the equation of the uniplane ( 75 ) is satisfied by the values Therefore @@@ SSOR l J. M. NGULAR POINTS Comparing this with ( 24 ) , it follows that Hence , by ( 38 ) , ( C. ) In this case , the values of given by ( 47 ) , ( 48 ) , are indeterminate .
For , because , it follows by ( 38 ) that Hence , to determine , it is necessary to differentiate ( 44 ) with regard to Therefore ( 76 ) .
Hence , because , and assumiug is finite , satisfies the ( 77 ) .
Similarly satisfies ( 77 ) .
Hence , when , it follows tkat are roots of the same quadratic .
They are finite provided . . .
( 78 ) .
The case excluded is that in which is satisfied by three equal values of , when case might be investigated in a manner to the in which the above equation is satisfied by only two equal values of , when D. Examination of the Differential Coefficier.ts of In this case and its differential coefficients are given by equations ( 51 ) , ( 52 ) .
( 70 ) , and ( 71 ) .
From these it can be seen , without solving the quadratic ( 77 ) for , that all vanish , when In like manner it can be shown that all third differential coefficients of vanish ; and , therefore , if be equation of the locus of unodal lines which is also an envelope , contains as a factor .
Example 6.\mdash ; Locus of Lxnes is an velope .
Let the surfaces be AND LJNES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A OF SURFACES .
( A. ) The Discriminant .
The discriminant is found by eliminating between the above equation and Hence it is Hence the locus of ultimate intersections is ( B. ) The locus of Unodal Lines which is also ) is For , let be any point on the surface .
Take , and consider the single surface Put Then lowest terms in X , are Hence is a unode on the surface O. Hence the locus of unodal lines of the surfaces under consideration is Moreover , the uniplane is also a tangent plane to the locus of unodal lines .
Hence the locus of unodal lines is an envelope .
JJence the factor in the discriminant is ccounted for .
III .
Arts .
.\mdash ; SUPPLEMENTARY Art .
10.\mdash ; Further remark on the case in which This condition indicates in general that the equation has two equaJ roots , but if be of the second in is of the first degree in , and hence it has either one root in , or is satisfied by an infinite number of values of It is desirable to notice the latter case , because it corresponds to an importanb treated in Part II .
, Section IV .
, of this paper .
Let , where rational integral functions of Then the conditions ) equivalent to at all points of the locus of ultinnate intersections .
Hence at all such points .
Hence unless have a common factor , which could in that case be removed from the equation f , the of ultimate intersections is not a surface , and hence its equation can1lot be obtained by ting a factor of the discriminant to zero .
Hence this case not be considered .
th it every point of ) there is conic node , then the tanjent cones the conic nodes must break up into two planes .
* Let ; be neighbouring points on the curve .
Then since there is a conic node at ; And since there is a conic node at , four other equations hold , by means of the above @@@@ @ @@@ @@@ only the principal ternls in the last three equations , it follows that The geometry of a surface of continuous curtrature shows at that there cannot be a curve of cotir , al points on rfa AND LINES IN INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF @@ @@@ @ hese equations must be consistent , and therefore This is the condition that the tangent cone at , viz. :\mdash ; may break up into two planes .
PART II.\mdash ; THE EQUATION OF THE SYSTEM OF SURFACES IS A RATIONAL INTEGRAL FUNCTION OF THE COORDINATES AND TWO ARBITRARY PARAMETERS .
SECTION I. ( Art .
) \mdash ; PRELIMINARY THEOREMS .
Art .
1 .
( A. ) If are the coordinates of point on the locus rational integral indecomposable function , if the substitutions make all its coefficients with regard to up to the if they one of the coefficients of the order vanish , the .
will also all the partial coefficients of the order rational integral function of , but not in general indecomposable ) .
Suppose that when where denotes partial diffel.entiation when are independent variables .
To prove that the same substitutions make and M. .
N. ON THE LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS It is given that cdl the values of which make also make Now let be a point near to on Therefore . . . . . .
( 1 ) .
( 2 ) .
And since make for this is a differential coefficient of the order , must also do the same .
Hence Also from ( 1 ) @ Since this is the only relation between S , S , it follows that Hence , by means of ( 2 ) , In this it is possible to pass from any one partial differential coefficient of order by successive steps to any other of order ; at each step always diminishing by one the number of differentiations with regard to one variable , and increasing by one the number of differentiations with regard to another variable .
Hence all the differential coefficients of the order vanish when AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF ( B. ) If , are the of point on the locus ( a rational integral functicn of which contains no factors ) , and if the substitutions make here is a integral function of ) , then contains the first ) as ( ii .
) If , fhen contains the second power of as a factor .
( iii .
) If make , . . .
, then contains as a factor .
To prove suppose first that is indecomposable .
It is obvious that cannot be of lower dimensions than in any one of the variables ; if it were , then all the values of which make would not make It may happen that does not contain all the variables .
But it must contain one of them ; suppose it contains If be not a factor of , proceed as in f , he process for finding the common factor of highest dimensions in of and ; and if , at any step of the process , fractional quotients in which the denominators are functions of are obtained , let the denominators be removed in the usual way by multiplic tion throughout by a factor .
Then either the process ] terminate , or there will at last be a remainder , which is a function of only , not In the first case and will have a common factor , and will be decomposable , which is contrary to the hypothesis .
In the second case a relation of the form exists , where are rational integral functions of only .
In this case , since all the values of which make , also make , therefore they make .
But is a function of only , not .
Now , the values under consideration are values of .
This is impossible .
Hence this alternative does not hold .
Hence must be a factor of If be decomposable , its indecomp.osable factors may be taken separately , and shown as above to be factors of As it is further supposed that contains no repeated factors , it , llows that contains a factor .
To prove ( ii .
) .
By the same argument as in it follows that contains as a factor .
Let Therefore , Now the substitutions make Therefore they make Now all the values of which make cannot make .
Hence must make vanish .
Therefore is divisible by without Therefore is divisible by without remainder .
To pve ( iii .
) proceed by induction .
Suppose that the theorem is true for a given value of , that if make , . .
, then contains as a factor .
Let it now be given that also make Then by the assumption where is some rational function of herefore where is some rational integral function of Now where is some rational integral function of Therefore .
Hence the substitutions make but they do not make AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
Therefore they make Theref.o re contains as a factor .
Therefore contains as a factor .
Hence , if the theorem is true for a special value of , it is true for the next value .
But it has been proved true when , hence it is true in general .
( C. ) If be determined as functions of other quantities by the equations where and rational integral functions of the other quantities ; then , if systems of common of become equal , they will the Conversely , if values of be foumd to satisfy at the same time the three equations then these values count twice over among the common solutions of the equations except in the where of the first degree in and ; and then tloe two equations have an infinite number of solutions in common .
To prove this , let represent the coordinates of a point in a plane .
Then are the equations of two algebraic curves .
The values of which satisfy at the same time both equations are the coordinates of the points of intersection of the two curves .
Let be the coordinates of one point of intersection .
The tangents to the curves at are where are current coordinates .
The two tangents will coincide , i.e. , the curves have two coincident points of intersection , if , if satisfy In the case where are each of the first degree in , then the theorem requires to be specially interpreted , the interpretation corresponding to the fact that if two straight lines have two points in common , they have an infinite number of in common .
Hence , in this case , the two equations have an infinite number of solutions in common .
( This particular case is of great importance in Section IV .
of this tion .
) ( D. ) To determine the conditions the equations , may be tisfed by three coinciding systems of common values .
In this case , considering as in ( C ) that represent { , he coordinates of a point , the curves must have contact of the second order .
Now Therefore ' Hence , equating the values of for the two curves , there is obtained the further condition SECTION II .
Arts .
.\mdash ; THE FACTORS 0F THE , WH1CH 1N GENERAL C0RRESP0ND To ENVELOPE AND SINGULAR POINT LOCI .
Art .
2.\mdash ; The Let the equation of the system of surfaces be ( 3 ) , AND IN THE RSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
where ) are independent arbitrary parameters , and is a rational ' indecomposable function of The locus of ultimate intersections is obtained by eliminating and between ( 3 ) and . . . . .
( 4 ) , ( 5 ) , where denotes partial tiation when are treated as independent variables .
Let the result of the elimination be , then is called the discriminant .
If are chosen so as to make any factor of the discriminant vanish , it indicates in general that it is possible to satisfy equations ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) by the same values of .
Hence can be expressed as functions of In this case , , .
liminating and a surface locus is obtained .
This is the general case .
The exceptional cases are noticed in Section VI .
, Art .
Art .
3.\mdash ; The Loci of Points of the System of The equation of the locus of singular points on the surfaces ( 3 ) can be obtained by eliminating and , between ( 3 ) , and ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) .
The singular points are in general conic nodes .
The locus of conic nodes is therefore a curve , whose equations are given eliminating between ( 3 ) , ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) .
It follows , also , by eliminating between the same equations , that there is a definite relation between If be the coordinates of the conic node on the surface . . . . . . . . .
( 9 ) , and the coordinates of the conic node on the surface ( 10 ) , then the following equations all hold at the same time , ( 11 ) , ( 12 ) , ( 13 ) , ( 14 ) , and .
other equations , which , by means of the above , become ( @)@ @@@@@ ( 16 ) , @@[ , @ ( 17 ) , SSSSS ( 18 ) .
If Sa , Sbe eliminated from ( 15 ) , the ratios S : S : S are determined .
These ratios determine the tangent line to the curve locus of conic nodes .
If be determined as a function of , so that ( 11 ) can be satisfied by the same values of , then the equations ( 11 ) and ( 15 ) show that the locus of conic nodes is a curve lying on one of the general integrals of the partial differential equation of the surfaces ( 3 ) .
Example 1 .
Curve Locus of Conic Nodes .
Let the surfaces be ( 19 ) , where are fixed constants ; the arbitrary parameters .
AND LINES INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF ( A. ) The locus of is the straight line .
To find this locus it is necessary to eliminate between ( 19 ) and ( 20 ) , ( 22 ) .
Therefore Hence the locus of ccnic nodes is the straight line , . . . . .
( 23 ) .
( B. ) The locus of conic nodes lies on the general integr of the equation of the surfaces ( 19 ) by putting To determine this general integral take the values of from ( 20 ) , and substitute in ( 19 ) .
This gives Hence the general integral is ained by eliminating from and Hence it is It contains the locus of conic nodes , whose equations are given in ( 23 ) .
( C. ) The locus of nodes does not lie on the locus of intersections .
For the equation of the locus of ultimate intersections is obtained by eliminating between Db It is therefore This does not contain the locus of conic nodes .
It is an envelope touching at the two points of the conditions which are tisJied at point on the Locus of Conic Nodes .
In the preceding article it was shown that the surfaces ( 3 ) have in general a curve locus of conic nodes .
If , however , every of the surfaces ( 3 ) has a conic node , then equations ( 3 ) , ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) are equivalent to three independent equations only , and the locus of conic nodes is surface , whose equation is obtained by eliminating and between any three of the four equations ( 3 ) , ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) .
It will be proved that such a surface locus of conic nodes is a part at least of the locus of ultimate intersections .
With the notation of the last article , equations ( 11 ) hold ; but now there is no relation between and There is a conic node on the surface . . . . . . . .
( 24 ) .
Hence ( 15 ) must hold when S Hence . . . . . . . . .
( 25 ) .
Similarly . . . . .
( 26 ) .
Since ( 11 ) , ( 25 ) , and ( 2b ) hold at all points of the node locus , it follows that the conic node locus is a part , at least , of the locus of ultimate intersections .
The position of the tangent plane to the conic node locus be ined from ( 16 ) by eliminating Sa , S ; and then using the tions AND LINES THE INTLRSECTIONS OF SYSTLM OF ( 27 ) , where X , are current coordinates .
Since ( 25 ) and ( 26 ) are satisfied at all points of the conic node locus , they satisfied when are replaced by respectively .
Hen ce SSSS ( 28 ) .
@@@@@ ( 29 ) .
Now ( 28 ) and ( 29 ) are not independent of ( 16 ) .
For if S , S are definite infinitely small quantities , then ( 16 18 ) determine the values of S , S , S corresponding to the conic node on the surface ( 10 ) .
Substituting these values in ( 28 ) and ) , and obserying that S , S independent may be supposed to vanish separately , the following relations are obtained ( using the usual notation for Jacobians):\mdash ; ( 30 ) , ( 31 ) , .
Other similar relations exist which may be found by taking any four of the equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) , putting any one of the five quantities S , S , S , S , S equal to zero , and expressing that the equations give consistent values for the four quantities which remain .
Hence any minor of the fourth order of the Jacobian vanishes .
Art .
5.\mdash ; Invcstigafion of the conditions which satisfied the Locus of Biplanar Nodes .
The equation of the tangent cone which , in this case , becomes the equation of the biplanes , at the singular point is ( 33 ) This up factors , linear with regard to Therefore . . . . . . . .
( 34 ) .
Now il in ( 16 18 ) , S be put equal to zero ( which is possible , since there is by hypothesis a biplanar node on the surface ( 24 ) ) , values of S/ , must be finite .
But the denominators of the values of these expressions vanish by ( 34 ) .
Hence their numerators also vanish .
Therefore ) ( 35 ) , ( 36 ) , ) ( 37 ) .
And similarly it can be shown that the equations obtained by changing into in the above also hold good : ( 38 ) , ( 39 ) , 1 ) ( 40 ) .
From these it follows that ( lG)-(18 ) are equivalent to two independent equations only in Now consider equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 28 ) .
The equation ( 35 ) makes the determinant formed the coefficients of S , S , in then ] vanish .
Hence it to the1n } same relation that ( 34 ) bears to ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) .
Therefore ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 28 ) are equivalent to two independent equations only .
AND IN THh lONS OF A OF In likc manner ( 36 ) shows that ( 16 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) are equivalent..to two independent equations only .
Also ( 37 ) shows that ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) are equivalent to two independent equations only .
Hence ( 28 ) and two of the equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) are equivalent to two independent equations only .
Similarly , by means of ( 38 ) , it can be shown that ( 29 ) , and any two of the equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) are equivalent to two independent equations only .
Hence the five equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) , ) are equivalent to two independent equations only in this case .
Since ( 16 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) are not independent , it follows that ( amongst other relations ) ( 41 ) , and ( 42 ) .
Art .
of tloe conditions )tisfied any point on .
the Locus of Nodes .
In this case , the left-hand side of the uation ( 33 ) becomes a perfect square .
Therefore .
( 43 ) .
Now , multiplying ( 16 ) by , ( 17 ) by , and subtractin ( @a ) .
( 44 ) .
Now , there is a uniplanar node on the surface ( 24 ) , hence Smay be made to vanish .
Therefore .
Similarly Therefore .
Now ( 43 ) and ( 4C ) show that ( 16 ) and ( 17 ) are equivalent to one independent SSOII M. lflLL ON THE LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS equation only .
Similarly and ( 18 ) to one independent equation Hence the following ratios hold ( 47 ) .
Applying ( 47 ) to ( 16 ) and ( 28 ) , it ] that these two are equivalent to one independent equation only .
Similarly ( 16 ) and ( 29 ) equivalent to independent equation only .
Hence ths five equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 , ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) , are equivalent to one independent equation only , ] erefore , ] following ratios hold . . .
of the of the of its of the First and Second Let ; .
be the common roots of ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , and let it be supposed , in the instance , that at points in the loci considered these sets of common roots are all distinct .
Then if .
( 49 ) , where A is a factor introduced to make the discriminant of the proper order and weight , ) esult of eliminating between ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , and ( 5 ) is Writing for brevity ( 50 ) , To determine , there are the equations ( 61 ) .
AND LINES IN THE INTE R OF A OF RFAC F give ( 152 ) .
Similar equations exist for finding and ) These , however , are not yet required , it being seen at , in general , ' ( 5.3 ) .
[ For a case of exception , in which does not vanish , see Art .
19 , Ex. , E. Differentiating with regard to ( 54 ) , .
Hence , by ( 52 ) , ( 57 ) .
Art .
8.\mdash ; Proof of the Envelope Propert ] .
Let be a point on the locus of ultimate and let the values of satisfying the equations ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) when be .
[ It will be supposed first of all , that only one value of exists , viz. , , and only one value of exists , viz. , .
But the following cases will afterwards be noticed , viz. , ( 1 ) more than one system of distinct values of exist , and ( 2 ) the particular case of the preceding in which two systems of values of exist which coincide .
] In this case equations ( 11 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) are satisfied .
Hence when : and beco nles Hence when ( 58 ) .
Hence the tangent planes to , coincide at .
This proves that the locus of ultimate intersections is generally an envelo } ) It should be noticed that the proof shows that the locus of ultimate intersections touches in general at each point on it one of the infinite number of surfaces of the system passing through that point .
This will be referred to in future , to distinguish it from more complicated cases , as a case of the envelope .
It should also be observed that the above conclusion cannot be drawn if makc O. Hence the investigation itself suggests the examination of the case in which a locus of singular points exists .
Art .
\mdash ; To if be the equation of the Enrclope Locus , a factor once once general .
( A ) .
If be a point on the envelope locus , then suppose that the values of satisfying ( 11 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 2G ) , are Then one of the systems of values of satisfying ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , must become equal to when Suppose that becomes becomes Hence becomes , where is ) becomes , and therefore vanishes .
Hence by Art .
1 , Preliminary contains as a factor .
Further , does not contain more than once as a factor in general , for the value of given by ( 53 ) does not in general vanish .
But it would vanish if contained a power of above the first as a factor : for suppose , where is a positive integer greater than unity , and some rational integral function of AND INES IN ' THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
Therefore Hence when Consequently , contains once , and once only in general as a factor .
( B ) .
It is necessary to examine the cases of exception .
( i ) .
If equations ( 11 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) are satisfied by more than one set of distinct values of ; take , for example , the case where there are two sets of solutions , Let become respectively , when Putting . . . . . .
( 59 ) , ( 60 ) .
Now , when becomes and vanishes , becomes and vanishes .
Hence vanishes .
Similarly vanish .
Therefore contains as a factor .
if there be distinct sets of values of lisfying ( , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) , it can be shown that ail the partial differential coefficients of up to the order vanish .
Hence will contain as a factor .
( See examples 4 ( C. ) , 5 ( C. ii 6 ( C. ) in Arts .
10 , 11 , 12 respectively .
) ( ii .
) The case in which two of the systems of values of the parameters satisfying equations ( 11 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) coincide , is dealt with in A.rts .
( 12 ) ) .
The , in which more than two systems of values of the parameters satisfying equations ( 11 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) coincide , may be treated similar manner .
Example 2.\mdash ; Ordinary Envelope .
Let the surfaces be ( A. ) The Discriminant .
( B. ) The Envelope Locus Every point on is the point of contact of one of the surfaces .
'Hence occurs as a factor once on:the iant .
It be noticed that touches each of the surfaces at one point onJy , .
This result may be compared with the next example .
Envelope .
Let the urfaces be ( A. ) The Discri minant .
( B. ) Enrelope Locus is point on is the point of contact of one only of the surfaces .
Hence as a factor once only in the discriminant .
It may be noticed that touches each of the surfaces at two points , viz. , .
Art .
10.\mdash ; To prove if be the equation of the Node Locus , contains factor in general .
Let be a point on the conic node locus , then equations ( 11)-(14 ) are satisfied .
ltence , by ( 50 ) , the substitutions , make ; and , by ( 53 ) , they also make By symmetry they also make Hence , by Art .
1 , Preliminary Theorem must contain as a factor .
Example 4.\mdash ; Locus of Conic Nodes .
Let the surfaces be where are fixed constants , are the arbitrary pal.ameters .
( A. ) The Discriminant .
To and between , is , in this case , the same as elinlinatiug between ; i.e. , making the equation homogeneous by putting it is ssary to find the discriminant of mXYZ AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
The invariants will in this , and in several of the examples which follow , be ) lated from the results given in 'Higher Plane Curves , ' Second L$ditio ) , Arts .
217-224 .
The invariant The invariant Hence ( B. ) The Conic Node Locns is Transforming the equation to the new origin , the lowest terms are of the second degree .
Hence the new origin is a conic node on the surface .
Hence is the conic node locus .
Hence contains as a factor .
( C. ) Three non-consecutive Surfaces of the )stem touch each of the plcmes point .
To prove this , the tangent planes to the surfaces which are parallel to the plane will be found .
The tangent plane to the surface at is If it be parallel to , the coefficients of and must vanish , but coefficient of must not vanish .
Therefore , ( 61 ) , . . . . .
( 62 ) .
From these , and from the condition that lies on the surface , . . . . .
( 63 ) .
If these be satisfied , and do not vanish , the tangent plane is The solutions of ( 61 ) , ( 62 ) , ( 63 ) are , ' , ( 6C ) , ( G7 ) , where is an imaginary cube root of unity .
The solution ( c4 ) corresponds to the locus of conic nodes .
In the case of the solutions ( 65 ) the tangent plane at is Hence either of the planes touches at any given point on it three of the surfaces of the system , viz. , those whose parameters are given by the tjons ; ; Hence by Art .
9 , , each of the factors may be expected to occur three times in the discriminant .
accounts for the presence of the i. e. , in the discriminant .
Art .
11.\mdash ; To prove that if be the equation of the Biplanar Node Locus , contains a factor in Let be a point on the biplanar node locus .
Then equations ( 11 ) , ( 41 ) , ( 42 ) are isfied .
The ument of t , he preceding article applies so far as and its first differential coefficients are concerned .
But further the values , , given by ( 56 ) , ( 57 ) vanish , in virtue of above mentioned equations , except in the case ( to be considered where the substitutions .
make i. e. , ( 68 ) .
From the symmetry of the variables it follows that all the other second differential coeflicients 0 also vanish when ( or the same results follow by Art .
1 , Preliminary Theorem A ) .
IJence by Art .
1 , Preliminary Theorem , it follows that contains as a factor .
AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SURFACES .
Example 5.\mdash ; Locus of Nodes .
Let the surfaces be where are fixed constants ; the arbitrary parameters .
( A. ) The Discriminant .
With the notation of the last article , the discriminant is the same as that of the equation Therefore ( B. ) The Node Locus is Transforming the equation by the substitutions , it becomes Hence the new origin is a biplanar node on the surface .
Hence is the locus of biplanar nodes .
( C. ) The Ordinary Envetope is ( ii .
) The Envelope such that every point on it is point of contact of non-consecutive Surfaces is ) To prove these statements it is necessary to find the tangent planes parallel to the plane Hence it is necessary to have i.e. , ( 69 ) .
( 70 ) .
( 71 ) . .
OFESSOR } I. M. HILL ON OF SINGULAR POINTS From ( 70 ) and ( 71 ) either ( 73 ) , or ( 74 ) .
, and eliminating and from it and ( b9 ) , ( 70 ) , it follows that Now .
if , then by ( 73 ) , and by ( 69 ) Hence ( 72 ) is not satisfied .
This solution corresponds to the biplanar node locus .
But if by 73 , and by ( 70 ) .
These values .
Hence is an envelope .
Each point on it is the point of contact of one surface of the system whose parameters are Hence is an ordinary envelope .
( ii .
) Taking ( 74 ) , and eliminating and from it and ( 69 ) , ( 70 ) , it follows that . . . . . . .
The corresponding values of , are determined by ( 74 ) and These values satisfy ( 69 ) .
Hence each point on the imaginary locus ( 75 ) is the point of contact of two surfaces of the system , whose parametels are determined by the equations where is one of the roots of ( 75 ) .
This accounts for the factor in the discriminant .
AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
Art .
12.\mdash ; To prove if be the of the Locus of Nodes , contains as a factor in general .
( A. ) Amongst the conditions satisfied at every point of the uniplanar node locus , will be found the following , see the . . .
( 76 ) .
Now , by Art .
1 , Preliminary Theorem , this means the equations are satisfied by two systems of values of the parameters which become equal when , the coordinates of a point on the uniplanar node locus .
[ It must be emembered that the theorem has to be specially interpreted for the case in which are both of the first degree in , i.e. , for the in which is of the second degree in .
This is done in Section Now this is the case rese , rved in Art .
7 , Art .
9 ( the second case of exception ) , and Art .
11 ( condition ( 68 ) ) .
As there are , in this case , two equal values of each of the parameters , , it may be expected that there will be two ( not necessarily equal ) values of It will appear presently that in some cases may become infinite , but this is not the case for the uniplanar node locus , in which the values of as given by ( 52 ) , become indeterminate , because the conditions ( 48 ) are satisfied .
Differentiating ( 52 ) with regard to , it follows that .
( 77 ) , ( 78 ) .
Multiplying ( 77 ) by , ( 78 ) by , subtracting , putting and therefore , and using ( 76 ) , it follows that ( 79 ) , and this equation with either of the equations derived from ( 52 ) by changing therein into into into , and therefore into into , determines in general two values for , and two corresponding values for The second of equations ( 52 ) gives ( 80 ) .
Eliminating between ( 79 ) and ( 80 ) , it that ( 81 ) .
This is in general a quadratic for The two corresponding values of are given by ( 80 ) .
The case of exception , when the quadratic for reduces to an equation of the first degree , viz. , when will now be considered .
( B. ) The meaning of the condition be determined by means of Arf .
1 , Preiminary Theorem D. AND LINES IN INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
Put therein Then the condition of Preliminary Theorem , which also holds , is The condition of Preliminary Theorem is equivalent to Dividing out by the last equation becomes , by the preceding , Now in the former part of this article , and correspond to and Hence the condition that the equations have three coinciding systems of common roots is This fact must be taken account of in forming the discriminant , and the whole of the work must be modified in accordance with it .
But this case will not be further discussed .
( C. ) It has now been shown how to determine the values of , a , when , the coordinates of a point on the uniplanar node locus .
Now , when both vanish .
Hence when becomes by ( 48 ) , therefore vanishes by ( 80 ) .
In like manner also vanishes when Now for brevity , and forming all the differential coefficients up to the fifbh order inclusive , term in any of these differential coefficients is the product of terms , one of which is or or a first or second coefficient or Hence when , all the differential coefficients up to the fifth order vanish , and , therefore , by Art .
1 , Preliminary Theorem contains as a factor .
Example of Nodes .
Let the surfaces be where are fixed constants ; the arbitrary parameters .
( A. ) The Discriminant .
The discriminant is the same as that of the equation Hence ( B. ) The Locus of Unodes is For putting , the equation becomes Hence the new origin is a unode .
There are no other singular .
points on the surface .
Hence the locus of unodes is ( C. ) The elope such that point on it is the point of contact of two nonlsecutive Sis To prove it is necessary to find the tangent planes parallel to AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
Hence it is necessary to find , so that ( 82 ) , ( 83 ) , ( 84 ) , ( 85 ) .
Therefore ; therefore The solution is incoltsistent with ( 85 ) .
Hence it is necessary to take Substituting in The solution , gives , and thelefore belongs to the unode locus .
The solution 9 gives and therefore or Hence at every point on this locus , the locus is touched by two nonoonsecutive surfaces of the system , viz. , those whose parameters are given by ; and This accounts for the factor in the discriminant .
Example 7.\mdash ; Locns of Nodes .
Let the surfaces be are fixed constants , and are the arbitrary parameters .
( A. ) The Di.scriminant .
Putting , the equation is Hence the discriminant is the same as that of the equation \mdash ; 8 Therefore , Therefore In order to show the way in which the factor arises in the discriminant , the discriminant will now be calculated .
It is known to be the result of eliminating from ) , i. e. , from . . . . .
( 86 ) , . . . . .
( 87 ) , ( 88 ) .
From ( 86 ) and ( 87 ) . . . . .
( 89 ) .
Substituting in ( 86 ) Put Then two of the values of are found from . . . .
( 90 ) , AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A OF SURFACES .
and then ( 91 ) ; and the remaining two values from ( 92 ) , and then ( 93 ) .
Take the factors of the left-hand side of ( 88 ) separately , and form first of all the part of the discriminant depending on Let the roots of ( 90 ) be and ; then the corresponding values of by ( 91 ) are and Hence .
In like manner , taking the roots corresponding to ( 92 ) and ( 93 ) , Next , taking the other factor of the left-hand side of ( 88 ) , the part of the discriminant corresponding to the roots of ( 90 ) and ( 91 ) is In like manner the roots of ( 92 ) and ( 93 ) give rise to the following part of the discriminant :\mdash ; .
Hence the roots of ( 90 ) and ( 91 ) give to the portion and the roots of ( 92 ) and ( 93 ) to Hence the discriminant is This agrees with the result previously stated .
Returning now to the part of the discriminant arising from the two systems of roots of ( 90 ) and ( 91 ) , it will be shown that the factor arises entirely from one of the systems only .
Consider , in fact , , which is the part of the discriminant due to the system of roots It is equal to where Therefore If the root corresponding to the positive sign be taken , theu not divisible by AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS A OF If , however , the root corresponding to the ative s be taken , i.e. , then terms containing higher powers of Hence the factor arises exclusively from the substitution in of one system of values of the parameters both the ations D O. A similar demonstration shows that the solution and , will also give rise to the factor Now .
it will be shown presently that is the unode locus .
Hence at any point on the unode locus , ; Hence , at such a point there are two values of of which vanish .
Hence two systems of values of , satisf.ying both the eqnations become equal ; viz. , the two values of the parameter become equal to the -coordinate of the point , and the two values of the parameter become equal to the -coordinate of the point .
( B. ) Locus of Nodes is To find the ular points , it is necessary to find values of satisfying all the equations The solutions of which are 200 PRoFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON OF SINGULAR POINTS Now , transforming the equation by means of the subsbiIiutions , it becomes Hence , the new origin is a unode .
Hence the locus of unodes is , i.e. , ( C. ) The L'nvelope Locus is ( 94 ) .
On examining the manner in which the discriminant was formed it can be seen that the factor corresponding to the envelope focus is obtained from ( 86 ) , ( 87 ) , and Hence it is the result of eliminating X , from ( 95 ) .
To prove tlJat ( is an envelope locus , it is necessary to show that if be the left-hand side of ( 94 ) , and be the equation of the system of surfaces , then it is possible to find values of which satisfy at the same time all the equations\mdash ; ( 96 ) .
Changing the independent variables from to , then , if S denote partial differentiation when are independent variables , equations ( 96 ) are equivalent to ; AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SySTEM OF SURFACES .
or , putting It will be shown that the values of which satisfy ( 95 ) also satisfy these equations .
For substituting from ( 95 ) , these equations become These reduce further to i. e. , .
Now the relations ( 95 ) .
Further ( 94 ) can be written in either of the Hence it is necessary to show that ' i. e. , and these are true by ( 95 ) .
Further , both consequences .
Hence all the are satisfied by the same values of ON US [ NGULAR POINTS III .
Arts .
13--15 CoNSIDERATION OF THE CASICS RESERVED IN THE Pli CTlO WHICH TWO SYSTEMS OF VALUES OF THE PARAMETERS LTISFYING THE , COINCIDE AT A POJNT ON LOCUS 0F ULTIMATE INTERSECTIONS .
The interpretation of the condition which is marked ( 76 ) , when the equation of the system of surfaces of the second degree in the parameters , is different from its interpretation when it is of a higher degree .
It will be supposed , in this section , that the degree of the equation of the system of surfaces in the parameters is higher than the second .
Art .
13.\mdash ; To of the Systern have , then contains a ( A. ) It will be shown that when the condition ( 76 ) holds in the case of an envelope locus , the curve of intersection of the envelope with each surface of the system has a double point at the point of oontact , such that the two tangents coincide .
[ Such contact is called stationary ( see SALMON'S 'Geometry of Three Dimensions , ' 3rd Edition , Arts .
204 , 300 To prove this , it is necessary to { ind the direction of the tangents to the curve of intersection of the envelope and one of the of the system at the point of contact .
Let , be a point on envelope .
Let the surface the at this be which has been marked ( 9 ) .
Then equations ( 11 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) hold .
Let be a point near to , which lies on the curve of intersection of the surface ( 9 ) and the envelope .
Since it is on the envelope , it will be the point of contact of one of the surfaces of the system .
Suppose it is the point of contact of the surface ( 10 ) .
Then . . . .
( 97 ) , und the equations obtained from ( 11 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) into AND LINES IN A OF SURFAC ] Then , from ( 97 ) @@ terms of the third and higher orders . . . . .
( 98 ) , and by means of the substitutions in ( 11 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) , @@@ ( @a ) @ @@ @@@@@@ @@2 @@@ @@@@@ @ ( @a ) @ terms of the third and higher orders . . . . .
( 99 ) , @@@@@ terms of the second and higher orders . . . .
( 100 ) , @@@@@ of the second and hi , .
orders . . . .
( 101 ) .
Making use of ( 11 ) , ( 25 ) , ( 26 ) , ( 98 ) , equations ( 99 ) become @@@@@ ( S ) @@@@@ @ ( S ) of the third and higher ders . . . . .
( 102 ) , @@@ ( Sa)@ terms of the second and higher orders ( 103 ) , @@@@@ terms of the second and higher orders ( 104 ) .
By , ( 103 ) , and ( 104 ) it follows that @S12 terms of the third and higher orders Hence ultimately @@@ This determines the two values of the ratio S/ S. Then to determine S , S , S there are the following equations obtained from ( 98 ) , ( 103 ) , ( 104 ) , by retaining only the principal terms .
@@@ ( 105 ) , @@@@ , @@@@ .
Hence the tios S : S : S be determined .
Hence the directions of the tangents to each of the branches of the curve of intersection of the envelope nd the surface ( 9 ) can be determined .
If , now , the condition hold , the two values of S/ S become equal , and , therefore , the two tangents at the double point of the curve of intersection coincide , and therefore , the contact is stationary .
Further , because in this case the values of S/ S both become equal to therefore ( 106 ) and ( 107 ) become @ @@ From these two equations it follows that the coinciding ents at the double point of curve of lntersection lie in the tangent planes to the surfaces ( B. ) In this case . . . . . . . . . .
( 109 ) .
Hence at every point on the envelope locus .
Hence contains a ctor .
AND IN THE IONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
Example 8.\mdash ; Envelope Locus , each of the Contact the Envelope .
Let the surfaces be where , S , are fixed constants ; the rary p ( A. ) The Discriminant .
It is the same as that of the equation Therefore SS Therefore ( B. ) Envelof ) , such each Surface Contact with it , is Transform the equation by means of the equations and it becomes The tangent plane .
the new origin is ; it cuts in the curve which has a cusp at the origin .
Hence tho contact is stationary .
Hence the factor in the discrimina nt is accounted for .
( C. ) The Locus is an This be proved by finding the tangent planes parallel to the plal]e It is necessary to satisfy at the same time ( 110 ) ( 111 ) .
PROFESSOR .
J. M. HILL ON THE LOCUS OF SINGULAR PO[NTS From the above therefore ( 112 ) Hence by ( 11 ] ) and ( 12 ) Substituting in ( 112 ) , therefore , therefore therefore .
Therefore This reduces to This accounts for the remaining factor in the discriminant .
It corresponds to an envelope .
AND IN CTIONS O A OF Art .
\mdash ; To prove that ] the Conic Node Locns be also an Envelope , contains as factor .
( A. ) It will be shown that when the condition ( 76 ) holds , in the case of a conic node locus , then the conic node locus is also an envelope .
In this case , and ( 29 ) , by means of ( 76 ) , it the equation of the tangent plane to the conic node locus is ( 113 ) .
This will touch the tangent cone ( 33 ) at the con ic node , if ( I14 ) .
This can be written For the constituent in the fourth row and column of the last vanishes by ( 76 ) ; and the cotlstituent in the fourth row and column of the preceding determinant is identically zero .
Hence the condition becomes 1 ) ( 116 ) .
And this is fied , because ( 30 ) Hence if ( 76 ) hold , the tangent plane to the conic node locus touches the tangent cone at the Therefore the conic node locus is also an envelope .
( B. ) Conversely , if the tangeIJt plane to the conic hod locus always touch the cone the conic node , then the condition is satisfied at every point of the conic node locus : To determine the position of the tangent plane to the conic node locus , it is sufFicient to eliminate S , Sfrom any three of the equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) , then to use the relations ( 27 ) .
Suppose that the values of S , S , S , hid ] tisfy ( , ( 1 ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) , are @ @ S S . . . . .
( 117 ) .
@ Then the tangent plane to the conic node locus is .
( 118 ) .
The condition that this may touch the tangent cone ( 33 ) is .
( 119 ) .
Tt will now be proved that the same can be obtained by substituting the values of S , S , S from ( 117 ) in AND LINFS IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF YSTElI OF SURFACES .
209 @ SSSS2 SS ( 120 ) , and then the roots of the resulting quadratic in Sa/ S For making the substitution , the result is @@ putting and similar expressions for , the condition for equal roots can be written It remains to show that this will be satisfied if ( 119 ) be satisfied .
Now 1 IDCCCXCII .
\mdash ; A. Hence dividing ont by ) it follows tl1at the left-hand side of equation 11 is to Hence if the left-hand side of equation ( 119 ) vanish , so also does was to be shown .
Hence either method of will lead to the condition that the tangent to the conic node locus should touch the tangent cone at the conic node .
second thod being in this case will now be adopted .
( 16 ) S , ( 17 ) S , ( 18 ) by S , ( 28 ) by \mdash ; S , ( 29 ) by add .
Hence @SS2 2 @ @@ Hence the result of tituti n the values of S : S , S , which satisfy ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) in ( 120 ) is @@@ ling the condition that the roots of this quadratic in S/ S should be it fullows that It will be proved in Arb .
27 ( see the equations that the common tangent line to the COlJic node and the conic lode locus is in iven by tlJe equations Hence the common line to the conic and the coni node locus lies on the tangent planes to the ; and it lies obvicusly on the tangent cone to the ( C. ) In this case equations ( 108 ) and ( 109 ) Also differentiating ( 109 ) AND INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
( 121 ) .
Substituting the values of from ( 52 ) , there is in the term which requires examination when , the coordinates of a point on the conic node locus .
Now in this case are roots of ] ) ) Hence @@@ ( Sa)@ terms of second and higher orders in S , S , S , S , S0 ( 122 ) @@@@@ terms of the second higher orders in S , S , S , S , S ( 123 ) .
Multiply ( 122 ) by ( 123 ) by and subtract , the terms of the first order in S , Sdisappear , and the equation obtained is of the form : first order terms second gher orders Hence if S , S , S are of the ordel of the infinitely quantity S , S are of the order of Hence principal terlns in ( 122 ) and ( 12:3 ) are S Sa](I [ S[ , S respectively .
Moreover by ( 122 ) and , althoug S , of the order , yet S S ultimately equal S is of the order Similarly Sa S is of the order ext , @@ S . .
@@@S2 @ @[ , @@ @@ terms of the and in , Sj S , second S ' ( terms of the first order in S , S , S ) first order terms of the third and higher orders in S , S , S , Sa ' , S ' .
terlns of the second ordel in S , S , of order containing S ' or S ' , multiplied by terms of the first order in S , S , S , are of order The terms S ' of ordel , since S ' S ' is of the argument the one which was applied to SS was of order The most important terms of the third and in S , S , S , S ' , S ' are of order is of order , when , the coordinates of a point on the conic node ] ocus .
Further ' becolnes terms of the second and higher orders in S , S , S , Sa , S. AND LINES IN TH A Hence , when of order Hence is of order , and vanishes at points on the conic nodt locus .
Similarly it can Le shown that the term vanishes points on the conic ) locus .
Therefore .
all vanish on the con ic locus .
efore a factor .
J.\mdash ; Let surfaces be where , S are fixed constants ; the arbitrary ( A. ) The It } is the that of the equation Therefore S .
( B. ) The Locus , is ) , To proye this , the equation by of It becomes Hence the new origin is a conic node , and one of the tangent planes of the conic node is Hence the conic node locus is , and it is also an envelo ) PIIOFESSOR .
J. M. ON ] } LOCUS ] GULAR POINTS relope .
This can be } ) by the gent p to Hence it is ]lecebsaly to satisfy S . . . .
Hence therefore Hence The solution of the last equation makes , and does not satisfy ( 124 ) .
Hence it is necessary to take This gives lIence , when the tangent platle is parallel to the plane .
Ic touches all the surfaces of the Hence is an Art , , the Node touch the Biplanar Locvts , a ctor .
( A. ) It shown when the condition ( 76 ) holds the case of a biplanar node then the edge of biplanar node always touches the biplanar node locus .
The equation of ) is given by ( 3S ) .
Now , if the side of ( 33 ) ) up into two linear then the two planes , hose equations given by ting the two linear factors to zero , will tersect in the straight line whose equations are given by any two of the three equations AND LTNES IN THE fNTLRSECTIUNS OF A SURFACLS . . . . .
To find the tangent plane to the binode locus , proceed thus : condition ( 41 ) gives which , by means of ( 76 ) , can be written Therefore Similarly TTence ( 126 ) .
Now , multiplying ( 16 ) by , ( 17 ) by and subtracting @ , @@ Now , by ( 126 ) , the coefficient of S yanishes , and the equation of the to binode locus is ( 127 ) .
Hence the tangent plane to the binode locus passes through the intersection two of the planes ( 125 ) , and , therefore , through the edge of the binode .
Hence the edge of the binode always the binode locus .
It may be noticed , further , with respect to the edge of the binode , since equations ( 28 ) and ( 29 ) depend on ( 16 ) and ( 17 ) , that since it is the intersection of the planes ( 125 ) it lies on the planes PROFESSOR .
J. M. ON SINGULAR POINTS These planes , may noted , coincide .
) lies on the xngent plaIles to the surfaces it is obviously a tangent to the face .
( B. ) ersely , if the of the binode always touches the binode locus , then the condition holds at every point of the binode locus .
equation of the is given by any two of the three equations ( 125 ) .
Hence , if the is a line to the locus of binodes , the equations ( 125 ) will be satisfied by the coordinates of a ) inode n , which lies on the edge of the first binode and infinitely near to it .
Hence @@S0 , SSS , ( 128 ) .
@[ , @@ But equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 2s ) , ) , als Hence , by ( 128 ) it .
become SS . . . . .
( 129 ) , SS . . .
, . . .
( 130 ) , SS ( 131 ) Hence . . . .
( 132 ) .
Now only two of five equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( L8 ) , ( 2s ) , ( 29 ) are independent .
Suppose that ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) Then , since ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) } on these , relations of the form AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF ACES .
Hence , by ( 132 ) , Therefore and Hence , unless , it is necessary to havs both and Hence But if results hold , the two equations taken to determine the edge of the binode would be the same , and would not determine it .
upposing then that those two equations have been selected , which are independent , this alternative cannot hold , and therefore Therefore Hence the equations ( 126 ) are satisfied , and in particular Hence , if the edge of the binode always touch the binode locus , the condition ( 76 ) holds .
( C. ) In ihis case is given by ( 108 ) .
Let be any point on the binode locus .
Then when of surface having a binode at of surface having a binode at , when , when Therefore , , and similarly , when IDCCCXCJI .
PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON THHi LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS Now if of the differential coefficients of be formed uP to the third order , then every term in the result will contain as a factor one the following quantities:\mdash ; or or a first differential coefficient of or Hence , when and all its differential coefficients up to the third order vanish .
Hence , if be the equation of the binode locos , such that the edge of the binode always touches the binode locus , contains as a factor by Art .
1 , Preliminary Theorem B. Example 10.\mdash ; Locus of Nodes such the Edge of the Node touches the Node Locus .
Let the surfaces be where are fixed constants ; are the arbitrary parameters .
( A. ) The Discriminant .
It is the same as that of the equation Therefore , In order to show the in which the factor arises , the method in which the discriminant is formed will now be examined .
It may be obtained by eliminating from . . .
( 133 ) , . . . . .
( 134 ) , ( 135 ) .
Hence , .
AND IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SySTEM OF .
219 Representing both values of by , it follows that Therefore , Hence , .
( 136 ) , ( 137 ) .
These give the values of which , when substituted in the equation of the surfaces , give the discriminant .
The values of corresponding to a point on the binode locus , will now be found .
It will be shown presently that is the binode locus .
Hence , and therefore , Hence , for each value of , one of the values of is , and one of the values of is Hence there are two sets of values of satisfying , which become equal when These two sets of values both give It wil ] now be shown that the substitution of each of these systems of values of in , will give rise to the factor in Now where , Substituting these in the left-hand side of ( 133 ) , it becomes i. e. , Although , to find the scriminant in the usual way , it is necessary to substitute each set of values of in this expression , then to multiply the results together , it is possible to determine more readily which value of will lead to the factor by expanding in ascending of Now Taking the upper sign . .
Substituting this value of in the coefficient of .
in the bracket is there being no lower power of This being true for each value of , the factor is accounted for .
The other value of will lead to a factor , in which there is a term independent of The elimination will now be completed .
It is necessary to snbstitute the values of and from , and in Substituting first for , and multiplying by becomes Substituting both values of in this , the results together , and multiplying by , the result is This reduces to AND LINES IN INTE RCTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
221 Putting , and multiplying by , this becomes Substituting for its two values , multiplying the results together , and reducing , it becomes This is the same value as before for the discriminant .
( B. ) The is Binode Locus such that the Edge of the Binode touches the Binode Locus .
Transforming the equation by means of , it becomes Hence the new origin is a binode .
Hence the binode locus is The biplanes are The equations of the edge are therefore It lies therefore in the plane , i. e. , in the plane Hence it may be considered to touch the binode locus .
The condition ( 76 ) is satisfied at every point on the locus .
Hence the factor is accounted for .
( C. ) The Surface is ordinary Envelope .
This may be proved by finding the tangent planes parallel to the plane Hence it is necessary to tisfy at the same time ( 138 ) , ( 139 ) , ( 140 ) , ( 141 ) , or putting , the equations ( 138 140 ) become the same as ( 133 ) , ( 1.34 ) , ( 135 ) .
Hence the result of the elimination will be the same as in the previous case .
It is only necessary to show that ( 141 ) is satisfied .
Multiplying ( 139 ) by , ( I40 ) by and subtracting from ( 138 ) , it follows that Therefore Therefore .
Hence(141 ) is not satisfied unless Now makes Therefore Lie ( 139 ) and by ( 140 ) .
This solution corresponds to the binode locus .
It may therefore be excluded .
Hence the factor of the discriminant under discussion corresponds to an envel locus , touching all the surfaces ; it consists of four planes parallel to whose ope equations are independent of the arbitrary parameters .
SECTION I V. ( Arts .
16-25 ) .
CoNSIDERATION 0F CASES RESERVED FROI1 THE PREV1OUS SECTION .
THE DEGREE OF IN IS NOW THE SECOND AND THE EQUATIONS ARE INDETERMINATE EQUATIONS FOR THE PARAMETERS AT THE LOCUS OF ULTIMATE It was supposed in the previous section that the de higher than the second ; for if the degree were the second and gree of in was satisfied which expresses that at a point on the locus of ultimate intersections , two , and the analytical condition systems of values of the parameters , which satisfy equal , then this analytical condition requires to be eciall \mdash ; 0 , ecome requ ally nterpreted .
or now are two sim le either satisfied by one of and one of , or else are minate .
since in .
Hence they are condition AND I TERSECTIONS OF A OF SURFACES .
223 holds , they are indeterminate .
In this case the discriminant cannot be formed as in the previous section .
There are not two coinciding systems of values of the parameters to consider .
It is shown that there is one system which can be determined .
There is also the additional peculiarity that the rationalising factor introduced to make the discriminant of the proper order and weight always vanishes at a point on the locus of ulti1nate intersections .
Hence , on account of it , the equation of an envelope or singular point locus may be expected to enter into the discriminant one or more times .
As this number cannot be determined in a general way , it is better to express the equation of the system of surfaces as a quadric function of the parameters , and form the discriminant in the usual way .
Art .
16.\mdash ; The Discrirninant and its rential Coefficicnts as far as the Let the equation of the system of surfaces be . . . .
( 142 ) .
To find the discriminant , solve for , the equations . . . . . .
( 143 ) . .
( 144 ) , aining hence ( 145 ) .
Now substitute these values of in the left-hand side of ( 142 ) .
The result is .The rationalisin factor is Hence the discriminant . . . .
( 146 ) .
Therefore AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
225 determinants , which can be obtained from the last six by interchanging and determinants , which can be obtained from the same six determinants by interchanging and . . . . . . . .
( 152 ) .
Art .
17.\mdash ; The relations ?
hold good at points on the Locus of Intersections .
( A. ) The analytical condition ( 76 ) which holds , becomes with the notation of this section . . . . . . . .
( 153 ) .
Hence the values of given in ( 145 ) are either infinite or indeterminate .
the cases where they are infinite , it is necessary to have ( 154 ) .
Again , b substituti r in ( 142 ) , it follows that . . . . .
( 155 ) .
Solving ( 144 ) and ( 155 ) for , it follows that ( 156 ) .
Hence by ( 154 ) these values will be infinite unless ( 157 ) .
Hence by ( 153 ) , ( 15/ 4 ) , ( 157 ) : : . . . . .
( 158 ) .
Now if represent any two of the five equations ( 153 ) , ( 154 ) , ( 157 ) , then these are satisfied at every point of the locus of ulti1mate intersections .
Let and be neighbouring points on the locus of ultimate intersections .
Then @- @ S0 , @ @ S0 AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACHiS .
Now the only relation between @ , S , S is that which -presses that the point is on the tangent plane to the locus of intersections at Hence ( 159 ) .
It is now possible to determine the values of which are indeterminate as given by ( 145 ) .
For , representing the value of in ( 145 ) by the equation it follows that the true value of is the limit to which the expression approaches , when S , S , S vanish .
Now ; hence by ( 159 ) the true value of is equal to any one of the hree ratios in ( 159 ) .
Besides the values of given in ( 145 ) , ( 156 ) , other forms may be obtained from equations ( 143 ) , .
Putting these together WU ( 160 ) .
All these values are indeterminate .
Now although the value of each of these fractions can be found by differentiating numerator and denominator with regard to any the same variable , yet they not all lead to the true value of , because the true values of are found by solving the equations , and finding what values approach to as the coordinates approximate to the coordinates of a point on the locus of ultimate intersections .
Now at points not on ttJe locus of ultimate intersections , the values of do not satisfy .
Hence the true values of cannot in general be found by solving this last and either of the preceding equations , and then finding the values to which these approach as the coordinates approximate to the coordinates of a point on the locus of ultimate intersections .
The true values are obtainable only from the solutions ( 145 ) .
( B. ) If there be a conic node locus , then , besides equation ( 142 ) , the following must be satisfied\mdash ; . . . .
( 161 ) , . . . .
( 162 ) , . . . .
( 163 ) .
( O. ) If be a biplanar node locus , then the equations ( 126 ) are satisfied as well as the preceding .
In this case these are .
From these , the following may be deduced .
Introducing a quantity , such that . . . . . . . .
( 165 ) , it follows by ( 164 ) that ( 166 ) .
From ( 165 ) and ( 166 ) .
Hence by ( 143 ) and ( 161 ) ( 167 ) .
Similarly , quantities exist , such that . . . . .
( 168 ) , and . . . . .
( 169 ) .
onsider now the equations ( 143 ) , ( 144 ) , ( 155 ) , ( 165 ) , ( 167 ) ; multiply ( 143 ) by , ( 165 ) by , ( 166 ) by , and add .
Therefore .
AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
229 Hence , at points on the biplanar node locus , ( 1.70 ) .
Again , multiplying the same equations by in order and adding , it follows that . . . . .
( 171 ) .
Again , multiplying ( 144 ) , ( 155 ) , ( 166 ) , ( 167 ) by in order and adding , it follows that .
Hence ( 172 ) .
Again , multiplying the same equations by in order and adding , it follows that . . . . .
( 173 ) .
Again , multiplying by in order and adding , it follows that .
Therefore ( 174 ) .
Again , multiplying the same equations by in order and adding , it follows that . . . . . .
( 175 ) .
Further comparing the three equations ( 168 ) or the three equations ( 169 ) with equations , it is evident that is possible in any one of the equations to replace by either or It will be noticed that in the case of the biplanar node locus , the true values of the parameters may be found from any one of the ratios in ( 160 ) .
( D. ) If there be a uniplanar node locus , then in addition to the results obtained in ( B ) and ( C ) , it follows by ( 48 ) that . .
: : .
:2 : . . . .
: .
:2 :2 . .
: . .
: . .
: : ( 176 ) .
( E. ) The following equations will be useful in the case of biplanar and uniplanar node loci : .
( 177 ) .
For the first and second determinants .
The third and fourth determinants .
The fifth and sixth detelminants .
AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS A OF Hence in the case of biplanar and uniplanar node loci , these six deterlninauts are by .
For .
( iii .
) . .
For multiplying the first column in each , and adding to the last they become The coefficient of is The coefficient of is The coefficient of is The coefficient of can be obtained from that of by changing into and into The coefficient of can be obtained from that of by changing into and into Hence it is sufficient to calculate the coefficient of coefficient of , viz. :\mdash ; IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
233 uv uv .
Hence { he coeflicient of obtained from this by into , and into ; and , therefore , into , and into , is .
And the coefficient of , obtained by changing , in the coefficient of into , and into , and therefore , into , and into , is .
From these the equation ( 179 ) follows .
SSOR b J. M. ON THE LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS Arb .
18.\mdash ; To prorc th ( th conditions at the of this Section , every the Systcm the Locus of Ultimafe Infersections atong a Curve .
Consider the surface ( 142 ) , the of now supposed to be fixed .
Consider any point on the curve in which the surface meets the locus of ultirnate intersections ; then , by ( 158 ) , these coordinates also satisfy the surfaces ( 144 ) , ( 155 ) .
by , ( 144 ) by , ( 155 ) by 1 , , it follows that these coordinates satisfy ( 142 ) .
Hence any point on the curye of intersection of ( 143 ) with the locus of ultimate intersections lies on ( 142 ) and ( 144 ) also .
Hence the surfaces represented by the three fundamental equations meet the locus of nltimate sections in the same curyp , .
It !
eces sary to prove that the surf : the system ( 142 ) will touch the locus of ul nate intersections along this curve .
Now , Hence , at point on the locus of ulti nate itionls , this is equal to Hence the tangent plane to the surface at the point is AND LINES IN THE RSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF Now this , by ( 159 ) , reduces to which the equation of the tangent plane to the locus of ultimate , since at every point of the locus of ultimate intersections .
Hence each surface of the system touches the locus of ultimate intersections cdong a curve .
Art .
19.\mdash ; To that unde ?
conditions the head of this in every of the Locus of two Cohic Nodes ; and if be the of the Locus of these Conic Nodes , as factor .
( A. ) prove that ttlel.e are in general two conic nodes it is necessary to show that there are in general two distinct sets of lues of satisfy ( 142 ) , ( 161 ) , ( 162 ) , ( 163 ) .
These will.be satisfied if ( 143 ) , ( 161 ) , ( 162 ) , ( 163 ) be satisfied .
ating b from result is Hence by ( 153 ) , ( 154 ) , ( 157 ) , after division by , it follows ) ( 180 ) .
And in like manner by eliminating between the above equations Further , by means of ( t59 ) , it is possible in these equations to char ) into or into These equations will be called the parametric quadratics .
Hence choosing and to satisfy ( 143 ) and ( 161 ) , they will also satisfy ( 143 ) and ( 162 ) , and ( 143 ) and ( 163 ) .
Hence it is possible in general to find two distinct systems of values of tIJd b which satisfy ( 142 ) , ( 161 ) , ( 162 ) and ( 163 ) , at points on the locus of ultimate intersections .
* The mean of the of is the value of givcn by ( 170 ) .
of the values of is the of given by M. J. M. HILL ON THEC LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS Hence there in eneral two conic nodes at every point of the locus of ultimate ( B. ) It follows from ( 146 ) and by means of ( 158 ) that both vanish at points on the locus of ultimate intersections .
By symmetry also vanish .
Hence contains as a factor .
Example 11.\mdash ; Locus of two Conic Nod es .
Let the surfaces be where ; and , S , are fixed constants ; the arbitrary parameters ; or 2 .
( A. ) Th This can be formed by solving the equations for substituting in The values of are ( after the factor which makes them indetermiby Substituting these values , and multiplying by the rationalising factor the result is might also have been obtained from tho form ' AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF ( B. ) Locus of two is if there Locus of Conic Nodes .
The singular points are determined by finding solutionls of But since , the equations may be used instead , where are now the ependent variables , so meaning of the symbol of differentiation is changed .
The equations to be satisfied are S(2x\mdash ; a ) [ Sx From these it follows that One method of solving the above equations is to take Sx Hence whether or 2 , there lre two values of , and two corresponding values of .
Hence there are two conic nodes .
Hence is a locus of two conic nodes .
( ii .
) Another method of solving the equations is to ' S PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS , then Sx Hence this is the same tion as in .
If , however , ?
, there are four equations to be satisfied by .
Eliminating it is a certain relation should be satisfied by , in order that the equations may be consistent .
From the equations ( when ) S rejecting a solution Hence Hence Hence IIence only when this relation holds between , will there be any conic node on the surface is not also on the IQCUS As in the genel.al theory explained in Art .
3 , this leads to a curve locus of conic nodes .
It need not therefore be ) considered .
Hence the only locus of conic nodes that need be considered in the discussion of the discriminant is Now , whether or 2 , ) lowest power of in the discriminant is ; hence factor accounted for .
AND LINE IN OF A OF SURliA 2 .
( C. ) The Locus is an Ordinary Envelope .
The condition ) i. e. , is not fulfilled at every point of this locus .
To prove that it is an enyelope it will be sufficient to show that if , be chosen so that then the surface touches the surface Calling the last two equations respectively , the conditions for contact may be expressed thus .
The same values of , must satisfy where are the independent variables .
The values chosen for obviously make Also eliminating , the result is Hence the values of can be chosen so as to make Next S for the ) bove val ues of OR .
J. M. HILL ON LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS Similarly 2S ( S\mdash ; ) , .
Hence if Making use of the values of , which satisfy the equations which have been taken to determine them , and which are solved above in ( A ) , it is necessary to show , to show that Hence this is satisfied .
Therefore It remains to prove that each of the equal quantities is equal to Multiply numerator and denominator of the first ratio by Sx , of the second by AND IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A OF ] .
241 of the third by , and form a new ratio by addition of the numerators and minators .
Then each of these ratios must be equal to Hence , by means of the equations , each of the ratios must be equal to i. e. , Hence it will be sufficient to prove Now using the values of given above in ( A ) , [ S Hence , using the value of , it is necessary to prove that ( hSx \mdash ; Hence it is necessary to show that i. e. , ( Sx\mdash ; y ) Hence this is satisfied .
Hence the conditions for contact are satisfied .
Since is not satisfied at all points of the locus , the factor of the discriminant corresponding to it occurs only once .
( D. ) It will be verified that the mean of the values of the parameter , which correspond to the two surfaces having conc nodes , at a point on the locus is the as the value of the parameter , which is used to form the nant .
The values of the parameters corresponding 1,0 the conic node are given by , S Hence Sx Hence the mean of the values of is S Now putting in the value of , given above in ( A ) , the same result is obtained .
( E. ) This example is a case in which the assumption to that of Art .
7 , at points on the locus of ultimate intersections cannot be made .
The equations are given in ( A ) .
Hence are given by Denoting for brevity by by by IT , Sx by it follows that AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF Therefore Hence , dividing numerator and denominator by , and then putting Now , in the case , there is a conic node when , and then Hence Hence does not vanish .
Art .
\mdash ; To prove that under the conditions stated the of this Section , if the two Surfaces Nodes coincide , then they are replaced by a single having a or Node .
If the condition be expressed that the roots of either parametric quadratic be equa ] , then the roots of the other parametric quadratic must also in general be equal ; for treating the parameters as coordinates of points in a plane , this amounts to expressing that the straight line ( 143 ) touches the conic ( 161 ) .
In this case then , the two surfaces having conic nodes coincide , and if be the values of the parameters corresponding to them , they may be found by finding the points of contact of the straight line ( 143 ) with the conic ( 161 ) .
They are therefore given by the equations Now , since the equation ( 161 ) may be replaced by or ( 163 ) , it follows that in the above may be changed irrto or .
Hence : : : : : : : : PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON THE LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS Hence the conditions ( 164 ) are satisfied .
Hence there is in general a biplanar node .
But a particular case there may be a uniplanar node .
Art .
-If two Conic Nodes are by single Biplanar Node , and if be the equation of the Biplanar Node Locus , and if the Edge of the Nodc ) touch the Node Locus , contains a factor .
It in Art .
19 ( B. ) that all vanish on the biplanar node locus .
Consider now as given in ( 148 ) .
The first three determinants vanish by ( 158 ) .
To calculate the next three , put in ( 177 ) Hence these three determinants by ( 161 ) .
Next consider as given in ( 149 ) .
The first three , vanish by ( 158 ) .
To the next six , put in ( 177 ) , Hence their value is by .
Hence by symmetry all the second differential coefficients of vanish .
Therefore contains as a factor .
Example Nodes , such that the Edges of the Nodes the .
Node Locus , the equation of the of the System being of the Second Degree in the Let the surfaces be where are fixed constants ; are the arbitrary AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
( A. ) The Discriminant .
The way in which the factor arises will now be examined .
The discriminant is found by eliminating between . . .
, . . .
( ) , . . . .
( ) .
By means of ( ) , ( ) , it ] that can be written . . . .
S .
The values of , satisfying and are Therefore -myz Now it will be shown that on the binode locus ; therefore the values of become indeterminate on the binode locus .
But they may be determined by dividing out by the factor , which vanishes on the binode locus , and then .
Hence if be any point on the binode locus , then at this point the values of the parameters are Hence there is a single set of values of the parameters satisfying the equations at points on the binode locus , which has been determined .
PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS here is not a double set of equal values as in Art .
15 ( see especially Example 10 of that article ) , where the degree of the equation of the system of surfaces in the parametel .
S is higher than the second .
If tlJe values given above for be substituted in the left-hand side of S , and the result multiplied by the rationalising factor , which in this case is , the result is which is the same value for the discriminant as before .
It will be noticed that the factor enters once through the rationalising factor , and twice from the remaining part .
( B. ) The Node Locus is Substituting in the equation , it becomes Hence the new origin is a binode .
There are no other points on the surface .
The biplanes are They intersect in the straight line Hence the binode locus is , and the edge of the binode , which lies in the binode locus , satisfies the condition for contact with the binode locus .
( C. ) Locus is Erwetope .
To prove this it is necessary to satisfy at the same time . . . .
, mz . . . . . . .
, ( ) .
Multiplying numerator and denominator of the first ratio in by , of the second by , and of the third by ; adding the numerators to form a new numerator , and the denominators to form a new denominator , and reducing by and , each of the above ratios AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A OF SURFACES .
Equating the third ratio of ( ) to this , and substituting for from , and putting , the result is . . . . .
( ) .
In like manner , from the first and third ratios of ( ) , . . .
( ) .
Substituting for from equation ( ) , this reduces to cm Hence ) .
Substituting in equation the corresponding values of are .
It remains to prove that one of the two systems of solutions will satisfy the equation obtained from the second and third ratios of ( ) .
This equation is Substituting for from equation ( ) , this reduces to Therefore Hence the solutions , , satisfy all the equations .
Hence the surface is an envelope .
( D. ) It will now be verified that the values of given by , and the equations obtained by changing into and , become equal in this case .
The equation is the only one that need be considered , because the others are identically satisfied .
In this case Hence if be any point on the binode locus , Hence the equation for is Hence both values of become equal to Art .
22.\mdash ; If the two Conic Nodes are by single Uniplanar Node , if be the equation of the Node Locus , then contains a factor .
It follows , as in Art .
19 ( B ) , and Art .
21 , that and all its differential coefficients of the second order vanish .
Next take the value of from ( 150 ) .
The first three determinants vanish by ( 158 ) .
To calculate the next set of terms , put in ( 177 ) Hence they are equal to .
AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
The last determinant by ( 178 ) is equal to .
Hence Next take the value of from ( 151 ) .
The first three terms vanish by ( 158 ) .
The next three terms by ( 177 ) are equal to ( \mdash ; ) .
The next three terms by ( 177 ) are equal to .
The next three terms may be obtained from ( 179 ) by changing into , and , therefore , into .
They are therefore equal to .
Hence Next take from ( 152 ) .
The first three determinants vanish by ( 158 ) .
The next six are by 179 ) .
The next six are by ( 177 ) .
Hence , the next six are , and the next six are .
Hence , Hence , by symmetry , all the third differential coefficients of vanish .
Hence , contains as a factor .
Example 13 .
\mdash ; Locus of Nodes ) the equation of the System of is of the Second Degree in tloe meters .
Let the surfaces be mz ( A. ) The It is yz .
To show the origin of the factor , the formation of the discriminant will be examined .
The equations ) are , in this case Therefore Now , it will be shown presently that is the uniplanar node locus .
Hence , become indeterminate on the uniplanar node locus .
But , removing the factor , which vanishes on this locus , .
Hence , at any point , on the uniplanar node locus , Again , substituting the above values of in , AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
251 the result is If this be expanded in ascending powers of , the lowest is the third power .
But the rationalising factor applied to form the discriminant , iz .
contains the factor .
Hence , the factor is accounted for .
The discriminant is as before .
( B. ) The Node Locus is Put in the equation .
It becomes mXYZ Hence the new origin is a uniplanar node .
Hence is the uniplanar node locus .
( C. ) The Envelope Locus is 2 The equation can be written Let be determined as a function of , so that the left-hand side of the equation may break up into factors linear with regard to Then mxyz \mdash ; .
It may ) be verified that the equation can be written Hence it may be concluded that will touch the surface where both the factors of the left-hand side vanish , i.e. , where SSOR M. J. M. HILL ON ]OCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS i.e. , where Hence the points of contact are determined by , .
Hence Hence when are given , there are three values of , and three corresponding values of .
, and three corresponding yalues of .
Hence each surface touches the envelope at three points .
But each point on the envelope is the point of contact of only one surface of the system , since when the coordinates of the point of contact are given , the values of , the parameters of the surface touching the envelope there , are determined by the simple equations .
The result may be verified thus:\mdash ; The values of satisfying the equations , will satisfy at the same time ( ) , and ( ) .
If satisfy , then AND LTNES THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
and substituting in the first of equations ( ) , after making some reductions , the result is which is satisfied by .
Hence the first of equations is satisfied by the values of given by Again substituting for in terms of from in the ratios become equal to .
Hence it is necessary to show that S .
Equating the first and second quantities in S it is necessary to prove that which holds by .
Equating the second and third quantities in S and removing the factor , the same result is obtained .
Hence the values of given in satisfy all the equations ( ) , ( ) .
Art .
23.\mdash ; If the meters of one of the two Surfaces Conic Nodes become inJinite , if be the equation of the Conic Node Locus , contains as factor .
The conditions that one value of and one value of satisfying ) parametric quadratics and ( 181 ) should be infinite are that In this case the values of and , as given by ( 146 ) and ( 147 ) , both vanish .
Hence contains as a factor .
Example 14.\mdash ; Locus of one Conic Node .
Let the surfaces be ( A. ) The It reduces to ( B. ) The Conic Node Locus is In this as equations ( 143 ) , ( 161 ) , ( 162 ) , ( 163 ) are equivalent to the three equations the only solutions of which unless are .
Hence there is now only one system of values of the parameters satisfying ( 143 ) , ( 161 ) , ( 162 ) , ( 163 ) .
The same value of the parameter would be obtained from the equation ( 181 ) which becomes in this case , after changing into Now ; therefore , On the conic node locus Therefore the equation for is Therefore There is only one conic node , ; ince , and , therefore , equation ( 181 ) reduces to a simple equation for AND IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTHiM OF ACES .
Art .
\mdash ; If the rameters of both of the having Conic Nodes become infinite , and be the equation of the Envelope Locus , then contains as In this case it is necessary that both roots of the parametric quadratics ( 180 ) and ( 181 ) should become infinite .
Hence the first differential coefficients of with regard to any of the variables , must vanish on the envelope locus .
[ It may be noted that if , and , then For ( 182 ) .
Multiplying these equations by V , respectively , and subtractin ; therefore , using ( 158 ) , after dividing by ; therefore Now both vanish by ( 158 ) .
Next consider as given by ( 148 ) .
The first three determinants vanish by ( 158 ) .
The fourth and fifth determinants by the above conditions .
The sixth determinant is Substituting in it for the values which can be obtained from , and it becomes V V V by ( 158 ) .
Next take from ( 149 ) .
The first three determinants vanish by ( 158 ) .
The fifth and seventh determinants The eighth and ninth determinants .
AND LINES IN INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
The fourth and sixth determinants are The coefficient of is The coefficient of is Hence Hence all the differential coefficients of the second order vanish .
Hence contains as a factor .
Example 15 .
\mdash ; Envetope Locus , the meters cboth the Surfaces having Conic Nodes being infinite .
Let the be ( A. ) The Discriminant .
This is AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF ACES .
( B. ) The Envelope Locus is The tangent plane at is Hence at the point , where the tangent plane is Hence the factor is accounted for .
( C. ) The Parameters of both Conic Nodes are infinite .
In this case Hence the equations and become , when ( 0 ) ( o ) Hence both roots are infinite .
If the differential coefficients in the parametric quadratics had been taken with regard to or , the equations would have been wholly indeterminate .
Art .
the parameters of both of the Surfaces Conic Nodes become indeterminc , then at every point of the Locus of Ultirnate ctions there are infnite number of Nodes ; each Surface of the system a Binodal Line lying on the Ultimate Intersections , if the locus of these Lines be , then contains as a factor .
In order the parametric quadratics may become wholly indeterminate , the first difl'erential coefficients , with regard to each of the three variables , of must vanish .
These involve the of the first differential coefficients of It will be shown , first of ] , that the ratios are this case equivalent only to the equation ( 143 ) .
[ The saIne holds good in the previous article , but the condition ( 161 ) is not satisfied there .
] For consider the ratios : .
Therefore This will be the same equation as ( 143 ) if Hence if and i. e. , if i.e. , if which are satisfied .
Similarly the other ratios in ( 164 ) hold .
Hence if any point be taken on the curve in which the surface ( 143 ) intersects the locus of ultimate intersections , that point is a binode on surface ( 142 ) .
Hence the surface ( ]42 ) has a binodal line situated on the locus of ultimate intersections .
Hence each surface of the system has a binodal line on the locus of ultimate inbersecbioI ) It remains to show that if be the locus of these binodal lines then contains as a factor .
The proof in the last article will hold as far as the second differential coefficients of are concerned .
Consider , therefore , the value of given in ( 150 ) .
The first three terms vanish by ( 158 ) .
The next three are equal to three times UV AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTHiAt OF SURFACES .
The last determinant is by ( 178 ) Therefore Next take as given in ( 151 ) .
The first three vanish by ( 1 8 ) .
The next three next three ( UV\mdash ; W ) WV The next three may be calculated by means of ( 179 ) by putting , and therefore Hence they are equal to Hence Next take as given in ( l52 ) .
The first three terms vanish by ( 158 ) .
The next six terms by ( 179 ) The next six terms 1JV 2 .
ESSO L J. .
HILL ON LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS The next six terms being obtainable from these last six by and vanish .
The remaining six in like manner .
Hence all the third differential coefficients of vanish .
Hence contains as a ctor .
Example .
-Locus Let the be ( A. ) The Discriminant .
This is .
( B. ) of Lines is For let be any point on both the loci Then put , so that Therefore . .
Hence the lowest terms in X , are These break up into two ) HeIjce the point is a binode on the surface .
Hence the strai,.ht line is a binodal line on the surface .
And is the locus of binodal Hence the factor of the discriminant is accounted for .
( C. ) The Locus is connected Curve Locvs , not Surface Locus , of Ult mate Intersections .
For the equations are in this ) AND IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A OF SURFACES .
Hence , if , then , in order that the above equations may be satisfied , The locus of these points is the curve This belongs to one of the exceptional cases enumerated in the ection VI .
of this paper .
Example )the the when the equation is of the Second Degree in the parameters those is of High ) Degree , so as Binode Unode Loci .
Let the aces be ( A. ) The Discriminant .
It is the same as that of the equation hereiore Therefore ( B. ) The Locus of ' Nodes For putting , the tion becomes The edge of the biplnnes is given by Hence the edge of the biplanes lies in the biplanar node locus , and , therefore , satisfies the condition for contact with the biplana1 ' node locus .
Hence the factor is accounted for ( Art .
15 ) .
( C. ) lf , the Locuis of is In this case , Hellae the ' is accounted for ( Art .
12 ) .
, but ?
the of the Surfaces , is of the Degree )'ameters , the be formed it notanish .
the discriminant is not that of the but of the It is therefore .
( E. ) T'he Locus of mar ) is now , the edge of the being in the Node Lccus .
The edge satisfies the condition for contact with the biplanar node locus .
Hence the is accounted for ( Art .
21 ) .
, the Locus of Uniplanar is In this case the discriminant is .
Hence the factor is accourlted for ( Art .
22 ) .
SECTION .
( Arts .
26-29).\mdash ; THE INTERSECTIONS CONSECUTIVE SURFACES .
It as been shown that when the analy ical condition ( 76 ) is satisfied which expresses that the fundamental ions are fied by two coinciding systems of values , the number of factors in the discriminant corresponding to conic node .
biplanar node , and uniplanar node loci , is less when the degree of the equation in the parameters is the second than when ib is of a higher It has also been shown that , when ( 76 ) holds and the degree in the parameters is the second , each sulface of the system , its consecutive surfaces , and the locus of ultimate intersections , intersect in a common curve .
It is desirable , therefore , to examine , he nature of the intersections of consecutive surfaces in all other cases .
Art .
26.\mdash ; ,1 that the , by the three equations mtersect in one poinf on the Envelope Locus , unless the Envelope Locus have stotionarcontact with of the System , and then there are two points tcrsection .
( A. ) consider case of an ordinary envelope .
be a of intersection of the AND LINES IN INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF Let be a neighbouring point on the same three , so that the values of are the same .
Therefore ( 18.3 ) , ( 184 ) , ( 185 ) .
Hence because , the terms of lowest order in X , in ( 188 ) , ( 184 ) , ( 185 ) are of the first degree in each case .
Hence there is one solution .
Hence there is one intersection at this point .
( B. ) Next consider the case where the contact is stationary .
The equation of the tangent plane to the envelope locus is . . . .
( 186 ) .
But also from ( 28 ) and ( 29 ) by means of ( 76 ) the equation of the tangent plane can also be shown to be ( 187 ) .
Hence Hence the lowest terms in ( 183 ) , ( 184 ) , ( 185 ) are not independent of each other ; and if the three fractions last written be each , it is possible by Equations 28 ) and ( 29 ) are satisfied at any point of an envelope locus .
Equations ( 16 ) , 17 ) , ( 18 ) are not .
by , ( 184 ) by by , and adding , to form a new equation in which the lowest terms in X , are of the second degree .
Jlence the equations are equivalent to three others in which the lowest terms in X , are of , 1 , 1 respectively .
fIence there are two sets of zero values of .
Hence there are two intersections .
Art .
27.\mdash ; To prove thoe Surfaces represented by the three fundamental equations intersect in two points on the Conic Node Locus , unless it be also an Envelope Locus , then there three points of intersection .
( A. ) In the case of the Conic Node Locus Hence the lowest terms in X , in ( 183 ) are of the second degree , in ( 184 ) and ( 185 ) of the first degree .
Hence there are two intersections .
( B. ) In the case where the conic node locus is also an envelope , it will be shown that the values of X , , which make . . . . .
( 188 ) , .
( 189 ) , also make ( 190 ) , so that lowest terms in the equations , by which may be replaced , are of degree 3 , 1 , 1 respectively , and hence there are three intersections .
Now the cone ( 190 ) touches the tangent plane to the conic node locus , viz. :\mdash ; ( 191 ) , this being the form for the tangent plane to the conic node which can be deduced from ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) , and ( 76 ) .
Hence , to find the line of contact , whose equations are the origin of co-ordinates being taken at the singular point , ( 192 ) .
AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS A SYSTEM OF SURFACE It will now be verified that For substituting these values in the iirst and second ratios of ( 192 ) , they become ( 193 ) .
Now , since the equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) , are equivalent to three equations only , it follows that which may be written ( 194 ) .
Also from ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) may be deduced which may be written ( 195 ) .
Multiplying ( 194 ) by by , and subtracting , which proves ( 193 ) .
This proves that the first ratio of ( 192 ) is equal to the second .
By symmetry the first ratio is also equal to the third .
Hence the line of contact is the intersection of the planes M. J. M. HILL ON THE LOCUS OF SINGULAR POINTS ( 196 ) .
Hen ce the values of which s.atisfy ( 188 ) and ( 189 ) also satisfy ( 190 ) , which was to be proved .
It may be noticed that the equations ( 196 ) are those of the tangent planes to the lrfaces D at Art .
28 .
\mdash ; To prove the Surfaces by the three fundamental equations intersect in three points the Node Locus , unless the Edge of the Biplanar touch the Node Locus , then there are four points of intersection .
( A. ) this case up into the factors Now , since equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , ( 18 ) , ( 28 ) , ( 29 ) are equivalent to only two independent equations , and are linear fnnctions of and Hence the equations may be reduced to others in which the degrees of the lowest terms in X , are 3 , 1 , 1 ively .
Hence there are three intersec(B .
) If , however , the edge of the binode always touches the binode locus , then by it follows that is a multiple of In this case and are not , as in the last case , linear functions of and AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
for , if so , would be a multiple of and the biplanes would coincide , and there would be a uniplanar node .
Consequently , in this case the equations can be reduced as follows :\mdash ; The lowest terms in ( 183 ) to be of the second degree .
The lowest terms in ( 184 ) to be of the first degree .
The lowest terms in ( 185 ) by means of ( 184 ) to be of the second degree .
Hence the degrees are respectively 2 , 1 , 2 .
Hence there are four intersections .
Art .
29.\mdash ; To prove the represented by the three intersect in six points on the Node Locus .
In this case is a perfect square , and is proportional to the square of ; and this by means of the ratios ( 48 ) is proportional to and aJso to Hence the lowest terms in X , may be reduced as follows:\mdash ; The lowest terms in ( 183 ) to be of the third degree ; the lowest terms in ( 184 ) to be of the first degree ; and the lowest terms in ( 185 ) by means of to be of the second degree .
Hence the degrees are 3 , 1 , 2 respectively .
Hence there are six intersections .
SECTION .
( Art .
) \mdash ; EXCEPTIONAL CASES .
Art .
30 .
It remains to notice the exceptional cases in which the locus of ultimate intersections is not a surface .
An example is given of each , but the theory is not developed .
The general case which has been considered in this paper is that in which the fundamental equations are satisfied by values of the coordinates which are functions of both parameters .
The exceptional cases ( I. ) When the fundamental equations are satisfied by values of the coordinates which are functions of one parameter .
( II .
) When the fundamental equations are satisfied by values of the coordinates which are functions of neither parameter , i. e. , are independent of the parameters .
( III .
) When the fundamental equations cannot be satisfied by any values of the coordinates which make the discriminant or a factor of it vanish , the values of the parameters being finite .
( IV .
) When the three fundamental equations , contain the five quantities are equivalent to two relations only between them .
( V. ) When the three equations , which contain the five quantities are equivalent to one relation only between them .
I. The satisfied by of the coordinates which are functions of one only .
In this case , eliminating the parameter , two relations between the coordinates are obtained .
Hence the locus of ultimate intersections is a curve .
Example 18 .
Let the surfaces be ( 197 ) .
( A. ) The Disaeriminant .
It is ( B. ) The coordinates of each point on the locus of ultimate int , ersections must satisfy ( 197 ) and ( 198 ) .
From ( 197 ) and ( 198 ) ( 199 ) .
Now a solution of the second of equations ( 198 ) is . . . .
( 200 ) .
Substituting in the first of equations ( 198 ) and in ( 199 ) . . . . . . . .
( 201 ) , . . .
( 202 ) .
AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
271 From ( 201 ) and ( 202 ) ( 203 ) .
A part of the locus of ultimate intersections is , therefore , given by ( 200 ) and ( 203 ) .
In this case may be considered to be functions of only .
It will be noticed that if ( 200 ) be satisfied , .
But does not suffice to determine this part of the locus of ultimate intersections .
( ii .
) Next take the other solution of the second of equations ( 198 ) , viz. :\mdash ; . . . . .
( 204 ) .
Combining this with the of equations ( 198 ) , ( 205 ) .
Hence , by ( 204 ) , ( 206 ) .
Therefore , by ( 199 ) , . . . . . . . .
( 207 ) .
Hence another portion of the locus of ultimate intersections is given by ( 205 ) and ( 207 ) .
In this case the coordinates of any point on the locus of ultimate intersections may be regarded as functions of the single parameter It will be noticed that if ( 205 ) be satisfied , ; but is not sufficient to determine this part of the locus of ultimate intersections .
II .
The Fundamental are satisfied by values of the coordinates which independent of the meters .
In this case all the surfaces of the system pass through a finite number of fixed points , or a fixed curve .
Example 19 .
Let the surfaces be ( A. ) To find the locus of ultimate intersections , it is necessary to satisfy at the same time the above , and Hence it is necessary to satisfy The locus is , therefore , generally a finite number of points .
The values of are independent of the parameters .
( B. ) If two of the three expressions , say , have a common factor , then the curve is a part of the locus of ultimate intersections .
( C. ) If the equation of the system of surfaces be transformed to plane coordinates , then a point has an equation , and the of ultimate intersections would have an equation , which could be determined as a factor of the discriminant .
III .
The Fundamental cannot be tisfied by of the coordinates the , the rameters being finite .
Example 20 .
Let the surfaces be the spheres where are fixed constants ; are the parameters .
They all touch the plane , and the sphere ) ) ( A. ) The It is .
( B. ) The Plane is of the Envelope .
( C. ) The Sphere is of the Envelope .
( D. ) The remaining factor requires explanation .
It is on account of this factor that this example is introduced .
If , the left-hand side of the equation of the system of surfaces , which is of the hecond degree in breaks up into two factors , one of the first degree in the other of degree zero .
But the fundamental equations being equivale1lt to cannot be simultaneously satisfied by finite values of when AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
273 For if and be finite , the equations are equivalent to which equations cannot be satisfied .
Hence the values of are infinite .
IV .
Fundamental rations are to only two relations between the coordinates and par.ameters .
In such a case the discriminant must vanish identically .
Example 21 .
Let the surfaces be where are fixed constants ; the arbitrary parameters .
The other fundamental equations are Hence the discriminant vanishes identically .
It may be noticed that in this case each surface of the system has a unodal line .
Hence the singularity is of a higher order than when each surface has a single uuode .
V. The are equivalent to only one between the coordinates rameters .
In such a case the discriminant must vanish identically .
Analytically is an example .
But the left-hand side is resoluble .
TABLE 0F CONTENTS .
ART .
PAGn Introdn ction 141 PART liQUATION OF THE SYSTEM OF SURFACES IS A RATrONAL INTEGRAL FUNCTION OF THE C0ORDINATES AND ONF , ARBITRARY PARAMETER .
Section I. ( Arts .
) \mdash ; The of thx Di.jrirninant which in general correspond to Bnvelope and Loci .
1.\mdash ; To show that if be the equation of the Envelope Locus , the Discriminant contains Fi as a factor . . . . .
142 Example 1 . . . . .
144 2.\mdash ; To prove that the Locus of Conic Nodes of the Surfaces is a Curve , not a Surface . . . . . . . . .
145 3.\mdash ; To find the conditions which hold at eve1y point on a Surface Locus of Binodal Lines 147 4.\mdash ; To find the conditions which hold at every point on a Surface Locus of Unodal Lines 148 5.\mdash ; Examination of the Discriminant , and its Differential Coefficients when a Surface Locus of Binodal Lines exists .
Proof that contains as a factor . . . . .
149 Example 2 . . . . . . . . . .
149 6.\mdash ; Examination of the Discriminant , and its Differential Coefficients when a Surface Locus of Unodal Lines exists .
Proof that contains as a factor . . . . .
1SO ixample 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
152 Section II .
( Arts .
) \mdash ; Considerabion of the cases reserved in which two roots of the become equal at any poinf on the Locus of Intersecbions .
7.\mdash ; Consideration of the exceptional case of the Envelope Locus , in which two consecutive characteristics coincide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
153 Example 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
154 \mdash ; Consideration of Loci of Binodal Lines which are also Envelopes . . . . . .
165 Example 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
162 9.\mdash ; Consideration of Loci of Unodal Lines which are also Envelopes . . . . . . . .
166 Eixample 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Section III .
Arts .
\mdash ; Supplementary Remarks .
10.\mdash ; Further remark on the case in which . . . . . . . . .
167 ll.\mdash ; If the Surface have upon it a Curve at every point of which there is a Comc Node , then the tangent cones at the Conic Nodes must break up into two planes PART \mdash ; THE EQUATION OF THE OF ORFACES IS A RATIONAL INTEGRAL FUNCTION OF THE C0ORDINATES AND TWO ARBITRARY PARAMETERS .
Section I. ( Art .
) Theorems . .
ART .
PAGE 1.\mdash ; ( A. ) If are the coordinates of any point on the locus ( ( where is a rational integral indecomposable function of ) , and if the substitutions make and all its partial diflerential coefficients with regard to up to the order vanish , and if they also make any one of the partial differential coefficients of the order vanish , they will also make all the partial differential coefficients of the order vanish being a rational integral function of , but not in general indecomposable ) .
, . . .
169 ( If are the coordinates of any point on the locus ) ( where is a rational integral function of which contains no repeat facto ] s ) , and if the substitutions make ( where is a rational intograI function of ) , then the first power of as a factor .
If make , then contains the second power of as a factor .
If make , . .
, then as afactor . . . . .
171 ( C. ) If be determined as functions of other quantities by the equations where and are rational integral functions of and the other ; then if two systems of common values of become equal , they will also satisfy the equation Conversely , if values of can be found to satisfy at the same time the three equations then these values count twice over among the common solutions of the equations except in the case where and are of the first degree in and ; and then the two equations have an infinite number of solutions in common . . . . .
173 detel m conditions that equations may satisfied by three coinciding systems of common values . . . . . . . .
174 Section II .
Arts .
) \mdash ; The factors of the Discriminant , which in general correspond to Envel)and Singular Point Loci .
2.\mdash ; The Fundamental Equations . . . . .
174 .\mdash ; The Loci of Singular Points of the Sysbem of Surfaces 175 Example 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
176 ART .
PAGti 4.\mdash ; Investigation of the conditions which are at any point on the Locus of Conic Nodes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
178 5.\mdash ; Investigation of the conditions which are satisfied at any poiut on the Locus of Biplanar Nodes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
179 estigation of the conditions which are satisfied at any point on the Locus of Uniplanar Nodes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
181 7.\mdash ; Examination of the form of the iminant , and calculation of its Differential Coefficients the First and Second Orders . . . . . . . . .
182 8.\mdash ; Proof of the nvelope Property . . . . . . . . .
183 9.\mdash ; To prove that if be the equation of the Envelope Locus , contains as a factor once and once only in genelal . . . . . . . . . . . .
184 Example 2 . . . . .
185 Example 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
186 10.\mdash ; To prove that if be the equation of the Conic Node Locus , contains as a factor in general . . . . . . .
186 Example 4 . . . . . . . .
186 ll.\mdash ; To prove that if be the equation of the Biplanar Node Locus , contains as a factor in general . . . . .
188 Example 5 . . . . .
189 12.\mdash ; To prove that if be the equation of the Locus of Uniplanar Nodes , contains as a factor in general . . . . .
191 Example 6 . . . . . . . . .
194 Example 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
196 Section III .
Arts .
\mdash ; Considerahon of the cases reserved in previous section , in which two systems of values of the parameters satisfying the equations , , coincide at a point on the Locus of Ultimate Intersections .
1.3.\mdash ; To prove that if each Surface of the System have Stationary Contact with the Envelope , then contains as a factor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
202 Example 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
205 14.\mdash ; To prove that if the Conic Node Locus be also an Envelope , contains as a factor 207 Example 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
213 15.\mdash ; Tc prove that if the Edge of the Biplanal Node always touch the Biplanar Node Locus , then contains as a facto ] .
Example 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
218 Section Arfs .
\mdash ; Considerafion of cases reserved from the previous section .
The degree of in is now the second , and the equations ]are ndeterminate equations for the parameters at points on the Locus of uimate Intersections .
16.\mdash ; The Discriminant and its Differential Coefficients as far as the third order . . . . .
223 17.\mdash ; The relations which hold good at points on the Locus of Ultimate Intersections 226 18.\mdash ; To prove { hat under the conditions stated at the head of this Secbion , every Surface of the System touches the Locus of Ultimate Intersections along a Curve . . . . .
234 AND LINES IN THE INTERSECTIONS OF A SYSTEM OF SURFACES .
19.\mdash ; To prove that under the conditions stated at the head of this Section , there are in general at every point of the Locus of Ultimate Intersections two Conic Nodes ; and if be the equation of the Locus of these Conic Nodes , contains as a factor 235 Example 11 . . . . . . . . . .
236 20.\mdash ; To prove that under the conditions stated at the head of this Soction , if the two Surfaces having Conic Nodes coincide , then they are replaced by a single Surface having a Biplanar or a Uniplanar Node . . . . .
21.\mdash ; If the two Conic Nodes are replaced by a single Biplanar Node , and if be the equation of the Biplanar Node Locus , and if the Edge of the BipJanar Node touch the anar Node Locus , contains as a factor . . . . .
244 Example 12 . . . . .
244 22.\mdash ; If the two Conic Nodes are leplaced by a single Uniplanar Node , and if be the equation of the Uniplanar Node Locus , contains as a factor . . . . .
248 Example 13 . . . . .
250 23.\mdash ; If the parameters of one of the two Surfaces having Conic Nodes becoms infinite , and if be the equalion of the Conic Node Locus , contains as a factor . . .
253 Example 14 . . . . .
253 24.\mdash ; If the parameters of both of the Surfaces having Conic Nodes become infinite , and be the equation of the Envelope Locus , then contains FP as a factor . . .
255 Example 15 . . . . . . . . . . .
258 25.\mdash ; If the parameters of both of the Surfaces having Conic Nodes become indeterminate , then at every point of the Locus of Ultimate Intersections there are an infinite [ mber of Biplanar Nodes ; each Surface of the System has a Binodal Line lying on the Locus of Ultimate Intersections ; and if the locus of these Binodal Lines be , then contains as a factor . . . . . .
259 Example 16 . . . . .
262 Example 17 . . . . . . . . . .
263 Sechon Arfs .
\mdash ; The Intersections Consecutive Surfaces .
26.\mdash ; To prove that the faces represented by the three fundamental equations intersect in one point on the Envelope Locus , unless the Hinvelope Locus have Stationary Contact with each Surface of the System , and then there are two points of intersection 264 27.\mdash ; To prove that the Surfaces represcnted by the three fundamental equations intersect in two points on the Conic Node Locus , unless it be also an Envelope Locus , and then are three points of intersection . . . . .
266 28.\mdash ; To prove that the Surfaces represented by the three fnndamental equations intersect in points on the Biplanar Node Locus , unless the Edge of the Biplanar Node always touch the Biplanar Node Locus , and then there are four points of intersection 268 \mdash ; To prove that the Surfaces represented by the three fundamental equations intersect in six points on the Uniplanar Node Locus . . . . .
269 Section .
( Art .
) \mdash ; Bxceptional Cases .
PAGE 30.\mdash ; I. The Fundamental Equations are satisfied by values of the coordinates which are functions of one parameter only . . . . . . . . . . .
270 Example 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
270 II .
The ] Equations are satisfied by values of the coordinates which are independent of the palameters . . . . . . . . . .
271 Example 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
271 III .
The Fundamental Equations cannot be satisfied by any values of the coordinates which make the Discriminant vanish , the parameters being finite . . . .
272 Example 20 . . . . . . . . . . . .
272 IV .
The Fundamental Hiquations are equivalent to only two relations between the coordinates and parametors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
278 Example 21 . . .
, . . . . . . . . . .
273 .
The Fundamental Equations are equivalent to only one relation between the coordinates and . . . . . . . . . .
273

