]\gt ; he Molecular of Solids .
" " The Molecular Volume of ] \ldquo ; By EDWARD ] Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received May 19 .
Read June 16 , 1881 .
The object of the present paper is to trace the relation between the molecular volume of any solid substance and its chemical constitution .
This subject has engaged the attention of several previous inquirers , notably of Kopp , Schroder , and Hermann , but a review of their labours will be postponed till an exposition of the principles of this paper has been given .
Such an arrangement , it is , will very much facilitate a comparison between the views and results of the present writer , and those of his predecessors in the same field of inquiry .
The molecular volume of any solid substance may be defined to be the weight of the molecule divided by the specific gravity of the substance .
The weight is lown in terms of the standard unit , if the chemical composition be known .
The specific vity may be determined by experime1lt .
Then we may form either of the equations \mdash ; Volume of molecule Specific gravity Another definition be given as follows :very solid and liquid may be conceived as made up of molecules separated one another by intervals spacP , and kept apart by the repulsive forces which each molecule exerts on molecules adjacent to it .
At a certain distance the molecules cease to repel , and beyond that distance they attract one another ; consequently , any molecule may be regarded as situate at the centre of a sphere within which any similar molecule would be repelled .
] sphere may be called the sphere of repulsion , and the volume of the molecule may be defined as tho volnme of its sphere of repulsion .
This definition is more suitable to the gaseous forms of matter , where the molecular volume is determined by observations on the interdiffusion of gases according to the plan adopted by Professor Loschmidt of Vienna .
It is to show that according to this definition the molecular volume of any solid substance is equal to its molecular weight divided by its specific gravity .
* Each atom which enters into the composition of a molecule has a nown and invariable atomic weight , and the weight of the molecule the sum of the eights of the atonls .
In like manner *Vide note .
VOL. XXXII .
458 Mr. E. Wilson .
the simple monatomic molecule of any element muRt have a determinate and invariable volume if the element could be reduced to the monatomic condition , and this volume may be defined as its atomic volume .
But an element does not carry its atomic volume unchanged into its compounds in the same way that it carries its atomic weight ; indeed , it is not probable that an atom of a compound molecule has any volume at all ( except , of course , in so far as the mere malter of the atom may have a volume ) in the sense of occupying exclusively of other atoms a discrete portion of space .
The whole volnme of the molecule is shared by its constituent atoms in common , and no separate portion of its space can be assigned exclusively to any one particular atom ; nevertheless , each atom of the molecule must play its part in the formation of the common volume , and therefore a certain proportion of that volume may be attributed to each atom in it .
The invariable and all-important atomic volumes defined in the precedin paragraph cannot be the subject of direct experimental investigation , except perhaps in the case of the few elements , such as mercury , cadmium , and zinc , which are known to be monatomic in the gaseous state at terrestl'ial temperatures , though all the elements may be conceived as capable of thns existing under conditions .
atomic volumes must in the case of each element be deduced from a comparison of tho specific gravities of the rious compounds in which that element figures as a constituent .
The first point to be aimed ai is to discover , by means comparisons , the values of these atomic volumes , because they of necessity form the only sound and ratiollal basis of all speculations on the volumes of compound moIecules .
There exists no other firm ground or secure starting point ; atomic voIumes are to molecular volumes what atomic eights are to molecular weights .
When two or more atoms combine to form a chemical compound , very intimate union of some sort takes place between the atoms , of the real nature of which we are , in the present state of science , profoundly ignorant ; but at any rate , a new molecule is formed with a new volume , and the question arises as to what relations subsist between { his new volume and the atomic volumes of the components of the molecule .
This is the problem which it is sought to solve , and the nswer , perhaps , may best be given by the enunc.iation of the two owing propositions:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) When any number of similar atoms combine , the volume of the resulting cule is equal to that of the nncombined atom .
( 2 .
) When dissimilar atoms , the volume to be attributed to each atom is some submultiple or simple aliquot part of its atomic volume , and the resulting molecular volume is the sum of these .
The somewhat speculative character of the above views will not cscape the notice of one , but before entering upon an explanation Molecular Volume of Solids .
of the tables which follow , the author thought it right to state the physical conceptions by which he was guided in his work .
It must , however , be premised , as will appear more fully in the sequel , that these conceptions are provisional only , and should they hereafter prove erroneous , heir invalidity would not affect the truth of the main result arrived at , which it is now proper to formulate in the shape of a general proposition as follows:\mdash ; ( 3 .
) Every element is capable of assuming different volumes in its various compounds , but these diverse volumes bear to each other a simple numerical proportion , such as 1 : 2 , 1 : 3 , 2 : 3 , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. Attention must ItOW be directed to the tables which follow , and which contain the evidence for the principles forward in this paper .
Table I contains a list of the molecular or atomic volumes .
The expression " " molecular or atomic\ldquo ; is used as implying that the two values are identical , as indeed they must be by virtue of the principle enunciated in proposition ( 1 ) .
It will be observed that by virtue of the same principle equal molecular volumes are attributed to each of the allotropic forms of an element , the allolropism being supposed to consist in the different number of atoms contained in their respecti molecnles .
With regard to the third column of the same , it should be pointed out that , since chemists are possessed of no means of determining the number of atoms in the molecule of an element in the solid state , the molecular weights here to the elements have been chiefly derived from a consideration of the volumes which the element is found to assume in the various substances of which it is a constituent .
The atomic volumes of the elements whose speciiic gravities in the solid are known , have been deduced from the ific gravities of sIlch elements and their compounds , but the atomic volumes of such elements as hydrogell , oxygen , and nitrogen , whose specific gravities in the solid form are ullknovn , have been deduced from the specific gravities of their compounds alone , without the assistance to be derived from the specific vity of the element itself .
These last-mentioned compounds , however , are so numerous that their atomic volumes may be considered to be deter- mined with greater accuracy than those of any of the elements , with the exception of carbon .
It would be impossible to present the evidence in favour of the preceding propositions without an adequate notation , and , therefore , it is necessary to explain the system of notation that been adopted .
The atomic volume of each element is represented in the tables by the ordinary symbol used to denote that element , accented ; whilst the submultiple of its atomic volume which the element lJnes in a particular molecule is indicated by a sniIix .
Thus the atomic volume of potassium ( 90 ) is represented by ; whilst in cxpression for the molecular volume of any substance ssium Mr. E. Wilson .
would mean that the volume to be ascribed to potassium in that particular molecule is found by dividing the number 90 by 3 , and then muItiplying the quotient by the number of atoms of potassium in the molecule .
Let us take an illustration from Table ( IX ) .
The molecular weight of potassium sulphate is expressed by ; the expression for its molecnlar volume is , which means that the number has to be divided by 6 and the quotient multiplied .
by 2 ; the number has to be divided by 6 ; the number has to be divided hy 4 , quotient multiplied by 4 , and that the sum of the resulting numbers is the molecular volume of sulphate .
The specific gravity is then obtained by dividing the molecular weight by the moIecular volume : thus the specific gravity of potassium which agrees very well with its observed value Another method of notation might have been adopted which has the advantage of getting rid of the accent and exhibiting both the molecular weight and volume in one and the same formula .
Thus both the molecular weight and volume of potassium slllphate might be expressed ] , if the numerators of the fractions are understood to represent the number of atoms and the denominators the submultiples of the atomic volumes .
It is now necessary to explain mors in detail , how the fundamental numbers of column , Table I , have been obtained .
In the first place it may be observed that these numbers are always some multiple of the atomic weight of the element divided by its specific gravity ; but that it requires an examination of the compounds of the element to determine what this multiple ought to be .
Let us take one or two illustrations .
The atomic weight of sodium divided by its specific gravity is 24 , and an examination of the compounds of sodium discloses the fact that this element assumes in its compounds most frequently the volumes 8 and 12 , and occasionally 24 : the number 2 , therefore , is the proper multiple in this case , and the fundamental number to be assigned to sodium is 48 .
Again , the atomic weight of iodine divided by its specific gravity is , but the most frequent volnme of iodine in its compounds is 32 and , less frequently : the number 5 therefore is its proper multiplo , and the fundamental number to be assigned to iodine is 128 .
For , whilst 32 and are respectively one.fourth and onesixth of the same number .
One more instance , perhaps , will suffice .
The atomio weight of boron divided by its specific gravity is about its compound volumes are 7 and 14 : whence 7 is the proper multiple and 28 its fundamental number .
Ammonium and cyanogen ( CN ) may be treated as simple elements , having as fundamental numbers the sum of the fundamental numbers of their constituents , and The Afolecular Volume of Solids .
respectively .
The of this is that the components of these radicles always undergo a like condensation .
Water of crystallisation has a volume , whilst that of ammonia in ammonia-compounds is The tables which accompany this paper will be found to contain pretty strong evidence of the truth of a conjecture first made by Kopp with ard to oxygen , , that an element in one and the same ompound may undergo different condensations if it enters into the composition of two distinct radicles .
Hydrated ammonium sulphate , , aifords a good illustration of this , for its molecular volume is , and it will be observed that the hydrogen in tlJe ammonium radicle is condensed to one-third , ilst in the water of crystallisation it is condensed to one-fourth , and again the oxygen in the acid ] is condensed to one-fourth , whilst in the water it is only one-half .
The following circumstance is well worth consideration .
Many substances , having the same chemical composition , appear to possess two distinct specific gravities , and therefore different molecular volumes ; a good instance of this is to be found in mercuric sulphide , , which , as cinnabar , has a specific gravity of about , but in its amorphous state , a specific gravity of about .
to molecular volumes and respectively : has also sometimes a specific gravity intermediate between these limits , indicating an admixture of the two states .
These mixtures are rather puzzling to any theory of molecular volumes , just as the densities of gases at temperatul'GS when they are undergoing dissociation appear to be anomalous according to Avogadro 's .
Perhaps these substances might not inappropriately be called bivolumetric or disterio bodies ; few examples of such compounds are given in the following table : \mdash ; Mr. E. Wilson .
invariability of the volume of tjhe constituents of the acid radicle in salts of bhe acid ; for instance , in of 60 sulphates , the radicle has the same volume .
It is true , the carbonates appear to form an exception to this rule , the radicle having in some cases the volume , and sometimes the volume .
, and curionsly enough , the oxalates follow suit in indicating two volumes for the radicle , and The observed specific gravities , with a few exceptions , have been taken from Clarke 's " " Constants of Nature being No. 255 of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections , a very compact and useful volume , which contains almost all the determinations that been made by observers in all parts of the world .
We may now proceed to point out the very fair agreement between results obtained on the present theory and hose reached by Professor Loschmidt by quite a different method , namely , by observations on the interdiffusion of gases .
A simple inspection of the following table will show that the molecular volumes obtained on the principles of this theory agree very well with those arrived at by oschmidt .
ison of the results of the present theory with those obtained by Professor Loschmidt from his experiments on the interdiffusion of gases .
Kopp 's labours on molecular volumes were devoted chiefly to liquid substances , which are beyond the scope of this inquiry .
The following brief account of his views on the molecular volumes of solids is derived from Miller 's " " Chemistry Kopp supposes that , in the case The Molecular of Solids .
of the oxides , oxygen has three distinct , 32 , and 64 ( his numbers are adapted to the atomic of oxygen ) , are in the simple numerical proportion 1 , 2 , and 4 , but he nevcr extends this principle to the other elements , unless it be , perhaps , to chlorine and the lightcr metals ; for , in the chlorides , the two values which he to , 196 and 245 , are in the ratio of 4 : 5 ; but then it is necessary to assume new for the metals , which ] , like potassium , sodium , cfdcium , and nesium , condensation in the act of combiuing ; and the volumes thus assumed for then exhibit no simple relation to the metals in an uncombined state .
To acid radicle in the sulphaoes two volumes are likewise assi , 186 and 236 , which bear no simple relation to each other , and are not derived from the constituents of the radicle .
To the radicies , and the chromates , carbonates , and nitrates , the volumes 228 , 151 , and 179 , but then does not appear that any connexion is traced between these numbers and the components of the respective adicles .
Schroder propounds the following principle:\mdash ; " " In every solid compound the volume measure ( volume-maas ) or the stere , of one of its elements , which , through the during crystallisation , determines all the other components and respective constituents , causes equal volume measures to take up equal steres .
In other words , one of the elements assimilates all the others The number of atoms of each element in a compound is indicated in the ordinary manner by a whole number placed to the right of the under side of the symbol , and the number of its steres by a whole number to the right of the upper side .
The stere is distinguished by an overstroke , and the observed and calculated volumes by a understroke .
The element in a compound which determines the stere is also indicated by an overstroke ; thus metallic silver is , observed volume .
Again , the chloride , bromide , and iodide of silver are thus:\mdash ; obs .
vol. From this it is seen that in all these compounds the silver stere dominates .
Mercury has a stere .
Thus:\mdash ; Mercurous oxide obs .
vol. Mercuric oxide obs .
vol. Mr. E. Wilson .
black cinnabar obs , vol. Red rhombohedric cinnabar obs .
vol. The cinnabar is distinguished from the red by the fact that , in the former , the stere dominates , whilst in the latter it is the sulphur The mercury in its chlorides and bromides , and also in the cyanide is present as , and not as thus : Mercurous chloride obs .
vol. bromide , , , , Merouric chloride , , , , bromide , , , , cyanide , , , , Manganese oxides and silicates.\mdash ; Metalic manganese has , according to John , the volume magnesium .
obs .
vol. Pyrolusite obs .
vol. Manganite is isomorphous with gothite and diaspore .
The molecular volumes of these bodies are as follows:\mdash ; Diaspore obs .
vol. Manganite obs .
vol. Gothite obs .
vol. In diaspore , therefore , the aluminium stere dominates , but in manganese and gothite the oxygen stere All the other oxides of manganese contain the manganese as thus :\mdash ; Manganous oxide obs .
vol. Braunite , , obs .
vol. Hausmannite , , obs .
vol. In the manganese silicates , the manganese has the condensation The Molecular of Sohds .
, and the silicic acid the same volume constitution as quartz , , thus:\mdash ; Tephroite .
vol. Paisbergite obs .
vol. In the first of these rals the oxygen stere dominates , whilst in the latter ic is the manganese stere .
Hermann , examining a series of oxides having the form RO , finds that the volume of the oxygen in them , which he designates as its normal value .
The volume ( 5 ) is probably correct , but why this particular volume should be dignified by the term normal , it is not so easy to see .
The volume of a monatomic molecule of oxygen is the only one entitled to be called normal if it could be got at , and is probably .
He then infers that the specific avity of solid oxygen is .
It is unnecessary to speculate on what is the specific gravity of solid , but it may be remarked , in passing , that solid oxygen cannot have less than two atoms in its molecule , and that ibs molecular volume is probably 20 , would give as its probable specific gravity .
Hermann then proceeds to assign this volume ( 5 ) to the oxygen of water , , the molecular volume of which , and then deducting ( 5 ) from ( 18 ) he obtains 13 for the volumes of the two hydrogen and for a single atom of hydrogen .
It is submitted that the tables which accompany this paper contain abundant evidence that contributes ( 10 ) to the molecnlal volume of water , and the atoms ( 4 ) each .
For in nearly a hundred compounds hydrogen , the hydrogen atom is never found with a volume greater than ( 4 ) , but in a great number of cases with that volume .
The next step is to determine the volume of nitrogen from a consideration of the density of fluid ammonia which is taken as 629 .
Dividing the molecular weight of ammonia ( 17 ) by 629 gives ( 27 ) as its molecular volume .
Then deducting for the three atoms , leaves for the volume of nitrogen .
The same observation may be applied to this determination as to the previous one , that hydrogen never has so great a volume as .
According to the system of this paper , the molecular volume of ammonia is 24\mdash ; Loschmidt makes it \mdash ; the nitrogen contributing 12 and the three atoms of hydrogen ( 4 ) each , and therefore , though the density of liquid ammonia may be 629 at a temperature , the probable specific gravity of solid ammonia is The density of liquid ammonia at C. has been found to be as high as 650 .
By such methods as the above , and others , determines the normal volumes of the elements , bm he supposes the non-metallic elements and the lighter metals capable of assuming other volumes than the normalones in their compounds , though not so Mr. E. Wilson .
the heavy mefals .
For instance , taking unity to represent the normal volume , oxygen may assume the following volumes : , 1 , 2 and 3 ; sulphur , , 1 and ; and the halogens , In conclusion , it may be remarked that the tables lend their chief support to proposition ( 3 ) .
Propositions ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) must be considered more hypothetical , but the writer wished to place them on record , because , if true , they would afford a physical interpretation to the fundamental numbers of column ( IV ) Table I. In proposition ( 1 ) also is to be found an explanation of the allotropism of the elements , carbon , silicon and phosphorus , based as it is upon the supposition that these allotropic forms contain a different number of atoms in the ) of their molecules with the same molecular volumes , and there are independent physical reasons , which render it not improbable that the accumulation of similar atoms in the nucleus of a molecule would not alter its volume , whatever be the law of force in action .
The question is perhaps not altogether beyond the reach of direct experimental investigation .
For if experiments on interdiffnsion could be carried on at the of gaseous mercury , the determination of the molecular volume of monatomic mercury , by the method of Loschmidt , would shed a very great deal of light on the subject .
Note.\mdash ; Let be the volume of any solid or liquid substance , its weight , its specific gravity , then The unit of volume being the volume of the unit of weight of the standard substance .
For distinctness we will take the hydrogen atoms as the unit of weight , and water at its greatest density as the standard substance .
Then Volume of molecule of water ' or the unit of volume is part of the volume of the molecule of water .
Suppose the substance to contain molecuIes , then\mdash ; Now is the weight of one molecule , and we may define the volume of one molecule .
The Motecular Volume of Solid .
But Consequently , the numerical value of would not be altered if wo took for our definition of molecular volume any volume bearing a fixed proportion to the volume first taken delinition .
Tho numerator and denominator of the fraction ( 1 ) would both be incrcased or diminished in the same proportion .
, inasmuch as the molecule of any substance will pack themselves as closely as their repulsions will allcw , it follows from geometry thnt the space proportional to the sphere of repulsion of the molecule of the substance .
Hence we may define the volume of a molecule as the volume of it ; ; sphere of repulsion without the equation .
of molecule Specific gravity of substance

