364 Mr. T. E. Thorpe on the [ Apr. 15 Prof. Huxley first correctly determined the homologies of the enamel-organ and the dentine-papilla , referring the first to the epithelium , th\lt ; latter to the derm ; the follicle , however , where it exists at all , 1 regard as mainly a secondary development from that region of the derm which formed the base of the dentine-germ .
Observations upon many mammals , reptiles , and fishes lead me tc the following general conclusions as to the development of teeth:\#151 ; ( i. ) All tooth-germs whatever consist , in the first instance , of tw\lt ; parts , and two alone\#151 ; the dentine-papilla and the enamel-organ .
( ii .
) The existence of an enamel-organ is wholly independent of th\lt ; presence or absence of enamel upon the teeth ; examples of this hav\lt ; been recorded by Professor Turner and by myself among mammalia and by myself among reptiles and fishes .
( iii .
) Nothing justifies the arbitrary division into " papillary , " " folli cular , " and " eruptive " stages ; nor does any open primitive dental groove or fissure , exist in any animal examined .
( iv .
) In all cases , an active ingrowth of a process of the oral epi thelium , dipping inwards into solid tissue , is the first thing distinguish able ; although the formation of a dentine-papilla , opposite to its deepes ' extremity , goes on pari passu with the development of its csecal end int( an enamel-organ .
( v. ) A special capsule , or follicle , to the tooth-germ may or may not be present ; when present , it is , in part , a secondary development frou the base of the dentine-papilla , in part , a mere condensation of surrounding tissue .
II .
" Researches upon the Specific Volumes of Liquids .
" By T E. Thorpe .
Communicated by Prof. Williamson , For .
Sec , R.S. Received March 2 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) I. On the Atomic Value of Phosphorus , Hermann Kopp has shown that , as a rule , the specific volume of an element is invariable when in combination .
Exceptions to the law occur , however , in the cases of oxygen and sulphur , each of which bodies has two specific volumes dependent upon the manner in which they are held in union .
When contained " within the radicle , " as in acetyl , C2H30 , oxygen has the value 12'2 , but when existing " without the radicle , " as in alcohol , it has the smaller value , 7*8 .
Sulphur , when " within the radicle , " has the specific volume 28*6 ; when " without the radicle , " it has the specific volume 22'6 .
The cause of these variations may be thus stated in the language of modem theory :\#151 ; When dyad sulphur and oxygen are united to an element by both their affinities , their specific volumes become respectively [ 875 .
] Specific Volumes of Liquids .
365 \gt ; 8*6 and 12*2 ; when they are attached by only one combining unit , their specific volumes are 22*6 and 7*8 .
Phosphorus is regarded by certain chemists as invariably a triad ; jthers maintain that it is sometimes a triad , at other times a pentad .
In he trichloride it is a triad , in the oxychloride and thiochloride it is a pentad .
According to this view , the two latter compounds possess the allowing constitution:\#151 ; .Cl Cl I I Cl\#151 ; p=o Cl\#151 ; P=S I I Cl Cl If , however , phosphorus is invariably trivalent , the oxychloride and thiochloride must possess the formulae O Cl I I P\#151 ; O \#151 ; Cl P-S-Cl I !
a ci It is possible to decide between the two modes of representing the constitution of these compounds , if it be granted that the variation in the specific volume of oxygen and sulphur is due to the manner in which these elements are held in union .
Por , if the phosphorus in the oxychloride and thiochloride be quinquivalent , the oxygen and sulphur must possess the greater of the two values , since both their combining units are united to the phosphorus ; if , on the other hand , phosphorus be trivalent , the oxygen and sulphur must possess the smaller of the two values .
The author has determined the specific gravity , boiling-point , and rate of expansion of P Cl3 , P O Cl3 , and P S Cl3 , in order to ascertain the specific volume of the oxygen and sulphur in the two latter compounds , and consequently the chemical value of the phosphorus ; and he finds that the specific volumes of the oxygen and sulphur are almost identical with the values given by Kopp for these elements when " without the radicle .
It would therefore appear that the oxychloride and thiochloride must possess the constitution Cl Cl P-O\#151 ; Cl P-S-Cl I I Cl Cl find that the phosphorus in these bodies is to be regarded as a triad .
The author concludes by discussing Buff 's hypothesis , that the specific volume of an element varies with its chemical value ; and he shows that , in the case of phosphorus , there are no reasons for the belief that this element has a variable specific volume .

