460 Further Experiments upon the Blood Volume of Mammals and its Relation to the Surface Area of the Body .
By Georges Dreyer , M.A. , M.D. , Professor of Pathology in the University of Oxford , and William Ray , M.B. , B.Sc. , Philip Walker Student in the University of Oxford .
( Communicated by Prof. Francis Gotch , F.R.S. Received October 24 , \#151 ; Read December 7 , 1911 .
) ( From the Department of Pathology , University of Oxford .
) ( Abstract .
) In a previous paper* dealing with the blood volume of mammals kept in captivity , such as tame rabbits , guinea-pigs , and mice , we have shown that the blood volume is a function of the surface , and can be expressed by the formula B = W*/ k , where B is the blood volume in cubic centimetres , W the weight of the animal in grammes , and k a constant calculated from the experiments , and varying for each species of animal .
In the present paper we have extended our observations upon the blood volume to animals living a natural life in the wild condition , such as hares , wild rabbits , and wild rats .
The technique employed was exactly the same as in our previous paper .
The results obtained are in complete accord with our previous experiments , in that the blood volume of each of the wild animals in question is a function of the surface .
The constant , determined from the experiments , and from which the blood volume of these animals can be calculated according to the formula B = W */ k , is for\#151 ; Hare ... ... ... .
0'94-j Tame rabbit ... 1*58 Wild rabbit ... 2'04 \gt ; Hew series .
Guinea-pig ... 3*30 Wild rat ... . .
3'05 J Mouse ... ... . .
6'70 For all experimental work where the blood volume is concerned , it is necessary to know , not only what the absolute blood volume is , but also , what is equally important , the magnitude of the deviations from the average which may be met with in normal and healthy individuals , since otherwise it is impossible to decide whether the blood volume found by experiment is to be considered normal or abnormal .
Calculating from the total number of our experiments by the method of least squares , the mean deviation is found to be about 6 per cent. Ibis * Dreyer , Georges , and Bay , William , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1910 , B , vol. 201 , pp. 133 160 .
^j\gt ; 01d series .
Origin and Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism .
461 indicates that if an animal is found by a reliable experimental method to contain 12 per cent , more or less blood than is deduced by calculation from the surface , the average constant of the species being used , it is probable that the blood volume of the animal is abnormal , whilst , if it is 20 per cent , smaller or larger , it is almost certain that the blood volume is abnormally small or large .
It may be pointed out , however , that if the blood volume were expressed as a percentage of the weight , it would only be possible to say with the same degree of certainty that the blood volume of an animal was abnormal when it differed by at least 40 per cent , from the calculated figure .
The Origin and Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism .
Part VIII.\#151 ; On the Cholesterol Content of the Liver of Rabbits under Various Diets and during Inanition .
By G- .
W. Ellis and J. A. Gardner .
( Communicated by Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. Received November 8 , \#151 ; Read December 7 , 1911 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of London , South Kensington .
) In Parts V* and Yllf of this series of papers evidence was brought forward to show that when cholesterol , free and in the form of esters , is given with the food of rabbits , some is absorbed and finds its way into the blood stream , and that an increase of both free cholesterol and cholesterol esters takes place in the blood .
This result affords support to the working hypothesis with regard to the origin and destiny of cholesterol in the animal organism , which we were led to formulate in an earlier paper , Jviz .
, that cholesterol is a constituent constantly present in all cells , and when these cells are broken down in the life process the cholesterol is not excreted as a waste product but is utilised in the formation of new cells .
A function of the liver is to break down dead cells , e.g. , blood corpuscles , and eliminate their cholesterol in the bile .
After the bile has been poured into the intestine in the processes of digestion , the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1909 , B , vol. 81 , pp. 230\#151 ; 247 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , B , vol. 82 , pp. 559\#151 ; 568 ; see also Pribram , 'Biochem .
Zeit .
, ' 1906 , vol. 1 , p. 413 .
+ 'R'y- Soc. Proc. , ' 1908 , B , vol. 81 , pp. 110\#151 ; 128 .

