I. " On a New Geometry of Space .
" By JULIUS PLijCKER , For .
Memb. R.S. Received December 22 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) Infinite space may be considered either as consisting of points or transversed by planes .
The points , in the first conception , are determined by their coordinates , by x , y , z for instance , taken in the ordinary signification ; the planes , in the second conception , are determined in an analogous way by their coordinates , introduced by myself into analytical geometry , by t , u , v for instance .
The equation tx+uy +vz= 1 represents , in regarding x , y , z as variable , t , u , v as constant , a plane by means of its points .
The three constants t , u , v are the coordinates of this plane .
The same equation , in regarding t , u , v as variable , x , y , z as constant , represents a point by means of planes passing through it .
The three constants x , y , Z are the coordinates of this point .
The geometrical constitution of space , referred hitherto either to points or to planes , may as well be referred to right lines .
According to the double definition of such lines , there occurs to us a double construction of space .
In the first construction we imagine infinite space to be traversed by lines , themselves consisting of points ; an infinite number of such lines in all directions pass through any given point ; the point may describe each of the lines .
This constitution of space is admitted when , in optics , we regard luminous points sending out in all directions rays of light , or , in mechanics , forces acting on points in any direction .
In the second construction , infinite space is regarded likewise as traversed by right lines , but these lines are determined by planes passing through them .
Every plane contains an infinite number of lines having within it every position and direction , round each of which the plane may turn .
We refer to this second construction when , in optics , we regard , instead of rays , the corresponding fronts of waves and their consecutive intersections , or when , in mechanics , according to Poinsot 's ingenious philosophical views , we introduce into its fundamental principles " couples , " as well entitled to occupy their place as ordinary forces .
The instantaneous axes of rotation are right lines of the second description .
The position of a right line depends upon four constants , which may be determined in a different way .
I adopted for this purpose the ordinary system of three axes of coordinates .
A line of the first description , which we shall distinguish by the name of ray , may be determined by means of two projections , for instance by those within XZ and YZ , represented by x= rz + p , y= sz + 0 , or by tw+ VX=l , uy + vi =1 In admitting the first system of equations , a ray is determined in a linear way by means of the foulr constants r , s , p , a , which may be called its four coordinates , two of them , r and s , indicating its direction , the remaining two , after its direction being determined , its position in space .
In adopting the second pair of equations , t , u , vx , Vi will be the coordinates of the ray .
A right line of the second description , which we shall distinguish by the name of axis , is determined by any two of its points .
It is the common intersection of all planes passing through both points .
We may select the intersection of the axis with the two planes , XZ and YZ , as two such points , and represent them by xt -+zt= 1 , yu+zv-= 1 , or by t =j ?
V + 7T , u=qv+/ C. In making use of the first pair of equations , the four constants x , y , zt , , , indicating the position of the two points within XZ and YZ , are the coordinates of the axis .
In adopting the second pair , the four coordinates of the axis are p , q , r , r. A complex of rays or axes is represented by means of a single equation between their four coordinates ; a congruency , containing all congruent lines of two complexes , by means of two such equations ; a configuration , containing the right lines common to three complexes , by three equations .
In a complex every point is the vertex of a cone , every plane contains an enveloped curve .
In a congruency there is a certain number of right lines passing as well through a given point as confined within a given plane .
A configuration is generated by a moving right line .
In a linear complex the right lines passing through a given point constitute a plane ; all right lines within a given plane pass through a fixed point .
Two linear complexes intersect each other along a linear congruency .
In such a linear congruency there is a single right line passing as well through a given point as confined within a given plane .
Three linear complexes meet along a linear configuration .
Instances of linear complexes are obtained by means of linear equations between the four coordinates of any one of the four systems .
A linear configuration of rays represented by three such equations between r , s , p , a is a paraboloid , immediately obtained ; between t , u , v , vi a hyperboloid .
[ Feb. 2 , 51 A linear configuration of axes represented by three linear equations between p , q , R , K is a hyperboloid , immediately obtained ; between x , y , zt , z. a paraboloid .
Instances of linear congruencies are exhibited by means of two linear equations , as well between t , u , v , , Vi as between x , y , zt , z and their right lines easily constructed .
The general linear equation , however , between any four coordinates does not represent a linear complex of the most general description .
Besides , there is a want of symmetry , the four coordinates depending upon the choice of both planes , XZ and YZ .
This double inconvenience , if not eliminated , would render it impossible to adapt in a proper way analysis to the new geometrical conception of space .
But it may be eliminated in the most satisfactory way .
For that purpose I introduced ( in confining myself to the case of the coordinates r , s , p , a ) a fifth coordinate ( sp ra ) , which is a function of the four primitive ones .
Then the linear equation between the five coordinates Are + Bs+ C+ D+ Ep+F(sp--ra ) =0 is the most general of a linear complex .
After having been rendered homogeneous by a sixth variable introduced , it becomes of a complete symmetry with regard to the three axes OX , OY , OZ .
The introduction of the fifth coordinate ( sp-ra ) is the real basis of the new analytical geometry , the exploration of which is indicated in the ordinary way .
In the paper presented , a complete analytical discussion of a linear complex is given .
We may for any point of space construct the corresponding plane containing all traversing rays , and vice versed .
Right lines of space associate themselves into couples of conjugated lines ; to each line a conjugated one corresponds .
Any right line intersecting any two conjugated , is a ray of the complex .
Each ray of it is to be regarded as two coincident conjugated lines .
It is easily shown that each linear complex may be represented by means of any one of the following three equations , in which k indicates the same constant : sp--ra=k , =--kr , p=-ks .
Accordingly a linear complex depends upon the position of a fixed line ( depending itself upon four constants ) and the constant k. Hence it likewise follows that such a complex of rays may , without being changed , as well turn round that fixed line , the axis of the complex , as move along it , parallel to itself .
The same results may be confirmed by means of the transformation of ray-coordinates , and thus analytically determined by the primitive constants A , B , C , D , E , F , the position of the axis of the complex and its constant k. In a peculiar case , where k becomes zero , all rays of the complex meet its axis .
A linear congruency of rays , along which an infinite number of linear complexes meet , is represented by the equations of any two of these complexes .
Through a given point of space passes only one ray , corresponding to it , as there is only one corresponding ray confined within a given r plane .
There is , with regard to each complex passing through the congruency , one right line conjugated to a given one .
All these conjugated lines constitute one generation of a hvperboloid , while the right lines of its other generation are rays of the congruency , which therefore may be generated by a variable hyperboloid turning round one of its right lines .
The a-es of all complexes intersecting each other along a linear congruency meet at right angles a fixed line , which is the axis of the congruency .
Among the complexes there are especially two , the axes of which are met by their rays .
These axes , meeting themselves the axis of the congruency , are its directrices .
A linear congruency , depending upon eight constants , is fully determined by means of its two directrices .
Each right line intersecting both directrices is one of its rays .
The plane parallel to both directrices , and at equal distance from them , is the central plane of the congruency ; the point where it meets , under right angles , the axis of the congruency , its centre .
The two lines bisecting within the central plane the projections of the two directrices , are its secondary axes , The directrices may be as well both real as both imaginary .
In peculiar cases the two directrices are congruent , or one of them is at an infinite distance .
Each of two complexes being given by means of its axis an ad its constant both directrices of the congruency along which they intersect one another are analytically determined .
A congriuency being given by means of its directrices , the constants and axes of all complexes passing through it are determined .
A linear configuration of rays is the common intersection of any three linear complexes , and represented by their equations , =0 , at= 0 , f0 ) =0 Each complex represented by an equation of the form U+ / Ll ' + rq ' -= equally passes through the same configuration .
So does any congruency along which two such complexes meet .
A linear configuration is a hyperboloid ; its rays constitute one of its generations , while the directrices of all traversing congruencies constitute the other .
The central planes of all these congruencies meet in the same point the centre of the hyperboloid .
Its diameters meet both directrices of the different congruencies .
The directrices are either real or imaginary ; accordingly the diameters meet the hyperboloid , or meet it not .
If the two directrices are congruent , the diameters become asymptotes .
The hyperboloid passes into a paraboloid if there is one directrix infinitely distant .
A linear configuration is determined by means of three congruencies as it is by means of three complexes .
That ray of it which meets one directrix of each congruency is parallel to the other .
By drawing two planes through the.two directrices of each of the three congruencies parallel to its central plane , we get a rhomboid circumscribed about the hyperboloid , the points of contact , within the six planes , being the points where the six directrices are intersected by the rays .
A hyperboloid being given , we may revert to the congruencies and complexes constituting it .
Finally , the equation of the hyperboloid in ordinary coordinates , x , y , z , is derived .
[ Feb. 2 , If we proceed to complexes of the second degree , the field of inquiry is immensely increased .
Here any given point of infinite space is the vertex of a cone of the second order , and likewise within any given plane there is a curve of the second class enveloped by rays of the complex .
The whole of the infinite number of cones , as well as of the infinite number of enveloped conies , is represented by a linear equation , between the five raycoordinates r , s , p , C and ( sp-roa ) .
The general analytical theory of contact may immediately be applied to complexes of the second order , touched by linear complexes , &amp;c. In order to elucidate the geometrical conceptions explained , I thought it proper to present , in Section II .
, an application to optics , leading to a complex of a simple description .
Rays of light , constituting in air a complex , will likewise do so after being submitted to any reflexions or refractions whatever .
Let us , for instance , suppose that the complex in air is of the first order and its constant equal to zero ; i. e. , that its rays start in every direction from all points of a luminous right line .
Let these rays enter a biaxal crystal by any plane surface .
Let the luminous line and this surface be perpendicular to each other .
Then , within the crystal , the double-refracted rays constitute a new complex , which is represented , like the primitive one , and independently of it , by means of an equation between ray-coordinates .
For this purpose I return to a paper of mine of the year 1838 , concerning double refraction , at the end of which , after having mentioned the application of Huyghens 's principle to Fresnels wave-surface and the construction of Sir William Hamilton , I proposed a new construction of the double-refracted rays in the most general case .
Here I first made use of an auxiliary ellipsoid , with regard to which the polar plane of every point of the wave-surface is one of its tangent planes , and , reciprocally , the pole of every plane touching the surface one of its points .
In representing Fresnel 's ellipsoid by the equation a2 x2 + 62 y2 + c2 z= 1 , the new auxiliary ellipsoid may be represented by X2 y2 z2 b c+ ^ab ^,1 or ax2 + 6y2 +cz = abc , and replaced , for most purposes , by the similar one , ax2 + by + c2= 1 .
The construction , as far as we are concerned here , may be expressed thus : -Construct at the moment when Fresnel ' s wave-surface is formed the polar line of the trace along which the surface of the crystal is intersected by the elementary wave .
The two refracted rays meet the wave-surface in the two points where it is intersected by the polar line constructed .
In the paper of 57 1838 I promised a discussion of the construction given , but neglected it till the present time .
This discussion immediately leads us to represent the complex of double-refracted rays by an equation , and at the same time we meet with several theorems worthy of notice .
If there is any incident ray , the plane of refraction , containing both double-refracted rays , is congruent with the diametral plane of the auxiliary ellipsoid , the conjugated diameter of which is perpendicular to the plane of incidence .
All rays incident within the same plane are , after double refraction , confined again within the same plane .
While the plane of incidence turns round the vertical , the corresponding plane of refraction turns round that diameter of the auxiliary ellipsoid , the conjugated diametral plane of which is the surface of the crystal .
Whatever may be the plane or curved surface by which a crystal is bounded in a given point , all corresponding planes of refraction pass through a fixed right line .
A complex of rays starting in air in all directions from every point of a luminous right line , perpendicular to the surface of the crystal , is represented by the equation rf = 8p , the luminous right line being the axis OZ , while the two remaining axes , OX and OY , are within the surface of the crystal any two right lines perpendicular to each other .
This complex is transformed by double refraction into another , the equation of which assumes the most simple form , ra = ksp , in especially admitting that the two axes , OX and OY , are congruent with the axes of the ellipse along which the auxiliary ellipsoid is cut by the surface of the crystal , and that the third axis , OZ , is , within the crystal , the diameter of the auxiliary ellipsoid ; the conjugated diametral plane is that surface .
k is a constant indicating the ratio of the squares of the two axes of the ellipse .
The complex of double-refracted rays is of the second order ; its equation may be easily submitted to analytical discussion .
All its rays passing through any given point constitute a cone of the second order .
This cone remains the same if the point describes a right line , passing through the origin .
Likewise there is in any given plane a hyperbola , enveloped by rays of the complex .
Peculiar cases are easily determined .
The complex of double-refracted rays may be described in three different ways by a variable linear congruency .
In the peculiar case in which the surface of the crystal is a principal section , OZ becomes perpendicular to it ; if it is one of the circular sections of the auxiliary ellipsoid , the constant k becomes equal to unity , i. e. all double-refracted rays meet the axis OZ .
From the general case the case of uniaxal crystals is immediately derived .
58 [ Feb. 2 ,

