7 .
" On the Markings of the Eel-back Dun variety of the Horse , common in Scotland ; " in a letter to P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. By W. Macdonald , M.D. , Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh , F.R.S. Ed. , F.L.S. , &amp;c. Communicated by Dr. Roget .
The author states some observations which he has made on the coloured marks apparent in a variety of the horse , common in Scot ?
land , and there called the EeUback Dun , and which afford grounds for doubting the accuracy of the conclusions deduced in a paper , by the late Earl of Morton , published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1820 .
The title of the paper referred to is " A Communication of a singular fact in Natural History , " namely , that a young chestnut mare of seven-eighths Arabian blood , after producing a female hybrid by a male quagga , had subsequently produced , by a fine black Ara ?
bian horse , a filly and a colt , both of which had the character of the Arabian breed as decidedly as could be expected where fifteensixteenths of the blood are Arabian , but in colour , in the hair of their manes , and the markings of the back and legs , bore a striking resemblance to the quagga .
The author , finding that similar markings are very commonly met with on the Eel-back dun ponies of Scotland , suggests , that as the breed of the mare in question was not pure she may have inherited the tendency to those peculiar markings .
He moreover observes , that the cross bar markings on the legs are not found in the quagga , but only in the zebra , which is a species quite distinct from the quagga ; a fact which he considers as completely overturning the reasoning by which the conclusions stated in Lord Morton 's paper were deduced .
The facts , he thinks , admit of a more natural explanation , and one more consistent with the known physiological laws of developement , by supposing the stain in the purity of the mare 's Arab blood to have arisen from the circumstance of an early progenitor of the mare having belonged to the Eel-backed dun va ?
riety , the peculiarities of which reappeared in a later generation .

