324 Drs. T. L. Brunton and J. T. Cash .
[ June 21 , 7r verse \#151 ; .
2 n n2 PQ X .5 '25 . . . .
T15 T46 .062 .095 . . . .
.040 .067 ... - -027 .051 ... .
.020 Figs. 5 and 6 show the hypotrochoids corresponding to the valnes of \#171 ; in the first column , and figs. 7 and 8 those in the second , for n=2 and n\#151 ; 4 .
There are some propositions relating to the form of cylindrical turned surfaces which have an analogy to that considered in this paper .
These I hope to examine in a future communication .
VI .
" Contributions to our Knowledge of the Connexion between Chemical Constitution , Physiological Action , and Antagonism .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and J. Theodore Cash , M.D. Received June 13 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is divided into several parts .
In the first the authors consider the general action of ammonium salts , and show that the action of the ammonium is considerably modified by the acid radical with which it is combined .
All the ammonium salts affect the spinal cord , motor nerves , and muscles , and in advanced poisoning tend to poison all those structures .
The course of poisoning varies with the salt employed .
The chloride , bromide , and iodide form a series in which a stimulant action on the cord is best marked in the bromide , and the paralysing action upon it and upon motor nerves most strongly in the iodide .
Motor nerves are also paralysed by the sulphate and phosphate , though less strongly than by the iodide .
The iodide tends to arrest the circulation sooner than the other salts .
Ammonium bromide appears to have a special tendency to cause coagulation of the stroma of red blood corpuscles .
The sulphate does so to a less extent , and the phosphate and iodide have a still less effect .
In the second part the action of salts of compound ammonias was investigated .
The substances employed were ethylamine , trimethyl-amine , and triethylamine ; the chlorides , iodides , and sulphates of amyl 1883.1 Chemical Constitution , Physiological , fyc .
325 ammonium and of dimethyl ammonium ; trimethyl ammonium and tetramethyl ammonium iodide ; ethyl ammonium chloride , diethyl ammonium chloride , iodide , and sulphate ; triethyl ammonium chloride , iodide , and sulphate ; tetraethyl ammonium iodide .
The compound ammonias affect the spinal cord , motor nerves , and muscles .
The spinal cord is first stimulated and then paralysed , stimulation being evidenced by twitchings or convulsions , and the paralysis by loss of reflex action and motor power .
There is a marked difference in the action between ammonia and the compound ammonias ; while ammonia causes well marked tetanus , compound ammonias , as a rule , produce symptoms of motor paralysis with the exception of those in which one atom of hydrogen only is substituted by an alcohol radical .
This paralysis appears to be partly due to their action on the spinal cord and nerve centres , and partly to a curara-like action on the motor nerves .
Some of them apparently increase somewhat the excitability of the spinal cord at first , but this is temporary , and is shown rather by hyperesthesia or tremor than by convulsion ; and tetramethyl and ethyl ammonium salts differ from the di- or tri-methyl or ethyl ammonias in having a much greater tendency to cause convulsions .
The effect of the acid radical on the physiological action is less marked in the case of the compound ammonias than in the salts of ammonia itself .
The iodides of the compound ammonias paralyse motor nerves more quickly than either chlorides or sulphates .
No difference was observed between the paralysing action of corresponding chlorides and sulphates .
The irritability of the muscle is increased as a rule by the chlorides , sometimes increased and sometimes diminished by the sulphates , and , as a rule , though with some exceptions , decreased by the iodides .
The contractile power of the muscle is less affected by the chlorides , more by the sulphates , and most by the iodides .
On comparing the effect of the substitution of different alcohol radicals for hydrogen in the compound ammonias , it was found that the least active substances were the ethyl , diethyl , and triethyl compounds .
In the case of the iodides and sulphates of these compounds only , was the minimal irritability of the muscle undiminished .
The difference between ethyl and methyl compounds was more observable in the case of the iodides and sulphates than in that of the chlorides .
The iodides all have a strong tendency to paralyse the motor nerves , but this is most marked in the case of tetramethyl and tetraethyl ammonium iodides .
Tetramethyl appears to act in a somewhat smaller dose than the tetraethyl ammonium .
Sulphates of the methyl compounds have a stronger tendency to paralyse motor nerves than those of ethyl compounds , and the ethyl 326 Drs. T. L. Brunton and J. T. Cash .
[ June 21 compounds have a greater tendency to exaggerate the irritability of the muscle at first .
Salts of methyl , ethyl , and amyl ammonium are more active than the corresponding ones of the di- and tri-compounds , but the tetra-compounds are most active of all .
In the next part of the paper the effect of salts of the alkalies on muscle and nerve are considered .
The substances investigated were the chlorides of lithium , sodium , potassium , rubidium , and caesium .
These differ from ammonia in having very little tendency to stimulate the spinal cord , and the chief symptom of poisoning by them is increasing torpor .
Slight excitement of reflex action is noted at first in the case of potassium and rubidium .
The motor nerves are not paralysed by caesium or rubidium except in very large doses , but the other substances of this group paralyse them to a greater or less extent .
Lithium and potassium are the most powerful .
The contractile power of muscle ( as shown by the height of curve ) is increased by rubidium , ammonium , potassium , and caesium .
It is unaffected by sodium excepting in large doses , and is almost invariably diminished by lithium .
The duration of contraction , as shown by the length of the curve , is increased by rubidium and ammonium in large doses , by sodium , and caesium .
It is shortened by ammonium , lithium , and rubidium in small doses , and by potassium .
The contracture or viscosity is increased by rubidium and ammonium in large doses , by lithium , and sodium .
It is diminished by rubidium and ammonium in small doses , , by caesium , and potassium .
The action of substances belonging to the alkaline earths and earths , is discussed in the next section .
The substances investigated were the chlorides of calcium , strontium , barium , beryllium , didymium , erbium , and lanthanum .
In regard to their action upon the nervous system , these substances fall into two groups , ( a. ) containing beryllium , calcium , strontium , and barium ; and ( 6 ) containing yttrium , didymium , erbium , and lanthanum .
Group a has a tendency to increase reflex action as evidenced by spasm or tremor .
With group reflex action in the cord appears to be little affected , but they appear to have a tendency to paralyse motor centres of the brain in the frog .
Group a all paralyse motor nerves to some extent .
Lanthanum has also a slight paralysing action , but the other members of group b have not , agreeing in this respect with sodium and rubidium , and differing from all the others .
In regard to their action on muscles these substances cannot be divided into sub-groups .
The contractile power of muscle is increased by barium , erbium , and lanthanum .
It is sometimes increased and 1883 .
] Chemical Constitution , Physiological , fyc .
327 sometimes diminished by yttrium and calcium .
It is diminished by didymium , strontium , and beryllium .
The duration of contraction is increased by barium , calcium , strontium , yttrium , and erbium .
It is unaffected , or slightly diminished by beryllium , didymium , and lanthanum .
Contracture is increased by barium , calcium , strontium , yttrium , and beryllium .
The contracture produced by barium is enormous , resembling that produced by veratria , as the authors have shown in a former paper .
It is , like that of veratria , diminished by heat , cold and potash , and may be abolished by these agents .
It is not so well marked when the drug is injected into the circulation as when locally applied to the muscle .
The action of some of the more important of those drugs can be graphically represented by a spiral , the terminal members of which ; are potassium and barium , and these two are to a certain extent connected by ammonium as an intermediate link .
The alteration effected in the action of the different members of these groups on muscle by the subsequent application of another , is next discussed , and it is shown that the effect of one substance upon muscle may be increased or diminished by the application of another .
One of the most curious points is that two substances having a similar action may , instead of increasing , neutralise each other 's .effect .
Potassium shortens the lengthened muscular curves produced by barium , calcium , strontium , sodium in large doses , and lithium , and reduces the contracture which they cause .
Sodium in large doses lengthens the curve and increases the contracture of the normal muscular curve , and it adds to the length of the long curves caused by calcium and strontium .
The veratria-like curve of barium is .counteracted by almost all the substances which produce a shorter .curve than itself .
There is remarkable antagonism between barium rand rubidium .
Rubidium in large doses produces an elongated curve with enormous contracture almost like that of barium .
This abnormal .curve is reduced to the normal by barium , and if this is applied to a greater extent than is sufficient to antagonise rubidium , it again produces the prolonged curve Characteristic of the barium itself .
In the case of calcium and strontium , which have a similar action in prolonging the curve , we find no antagonism ; the one tending rather to increase the effect of the other .
Some relations are pointed out between the atomic weights of antagonising elements .
Although the data are too limited to draw from them any general rule , the authors think that they may possibly lead by-and-by to some useful result .
Thus , calcium reduces the barium curve to the normal before it causes its own peculiar curve .
This may be looked upon possibly :as the result of the union of the barium and potassium having 328 Capt. Abney and Gol .
Festing .
[ June 21 , resulted in some compound -which is a multiple of potassium ; potas-sium being , as we know , an important constituent of normal muscle .
Ba 137 x 2=274 274\#151 ; Ca 40=234 , K 39x6= 234 .
Rubidium in large doses has the same effect as barium in causing a veratria-like curve , but barium destroys the effect of rubidium before producing its own effect . .
Rb 85-4x8=683-2 , Ba 137x5=685 .
In the next division the authors show that by alternate application of acids and alkalies the muscle of the frog may be made to describe on a slowly-revolving cylinder curves which almost exactly resemble those described on a quick cylinder by the normal contraction of a muscle on stimulation ; and also those which the muscle describes on irritation after it has been poisoned by barium .
They consider that the contraction of muscle may be possibly due in some measure at least to alterations in acid or neutral salts which the muscle contains^ The lethal activity on frogs of the chlorides experimented upon is as follows : the potassium being most powerful , and calcium least powerful ; potassium , beryllium , rubidium , barium , ammonium , caesium , lithium , lanthanum , didymium , erbium , strontium , yttrium , , , sodium , calcium .
VII .
" The Influence of Water in the Atmosphere on the Solar Spectrum and Solar Temperature .
" By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. , and Colonel Festing , R.E. Communicated at the request of the Committee on Solar Physics .
Received June 14 , 1883 .
In our paper on " Atmospheric Absorption in the Infra-red of the* Solar Spectrum " \#166 ; ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 35 , p. 80 ) , we stated that the absorption by water coincided with the absorption bands to be found in the solar spectrum , and our proof rested on photographs which had been taken for some time back .
In the diagram which we published ( and in which are slight errors in shading at some parts , and which we here correct ) we showed the coincidences as far as A.10,000 , that being the limit to which we could accurately fix the wave-lengths .
Simultaneously almost with the publication of our paper , there came into our possession an account ' of Professor Bangley 's researches on the solar spectrum , conducted by means of the bolometer , a perusal of which determined us to vary

