]\gt ; in the By IIUSTEh ) , Sec. R. ( Received ) , ) 1 .
The } paper deals with the 'energy taken uP by simple sonator nder the action of white light , and the lhHl tory energy arted to a molecule by radiation .
The first has already reRted blaltck : it solved in a simple anner , the method used , when ) to the second , leads to the ) ortant result , that a rest within enclosure of tlJliflll temperature , under the action of rttdi tions , be set in lnotion with an acceleration that will increase speed until energy ches definite .
If the of be assunned to hold .
the ultimate average ) to adiation alone is of that derived fronr the kinetic xion b radiation absorption is letines illuHtrated by of a pendulnu ] cted on by these always in same direction , and equal to the period of oscillation , the ) rapidly increases ; the pendulum may be said to absorb the of the .
When the intervals are ular , , impnlses in ) and direction , it further argued that their effects will be .
so that the remains at comparative 1PSI .
I used at to try and ate the distinction ntall in the lecture-room , but met with success .
much ] the blows indiscriminately and , th pendulunl always showed a continuously amplitude of oscillation .
I ultiudoned the iment , thinking hal some unco1lsciouh inlluence which forced the experimenler tu time bis to with the of swing .
1 have known better : anyone who has given attention to the of white seen once that continuously increasin ] oscillation of the set in 11 tion delivered the bame velocity irrespective of phase , is the true analogy of what occurs in nalnl ( hen white light is absorbed in a .
If no continuously increasing of motion there could absorption complete theory that with intervals to of the free period , ) .
with the time , while , VOL. XCIV.\mdash ; A. / 4 Prof. A. Schuster .
the blows succeed each other ularly , it is the average that is proportional to the time .
In the absence of friction the creaset , indofinitely in both cases .
Let a particle perform simply periodic oscillations under the action of a directed to a fixed centre , the velocity being represented by If at the time , an additional velocity be imparted to the particle in its line of motion , the subsequent velocity will be represented by : , Sor it is easily seen that the last term introduces no change of position at tiuae ) increases the velocity the quantity .
The result of the sudden of velocity is therefore the same as if an additional oscillation had been superposed on the original one .
It follows that the effect of successive blows , etc. , delivered at times , etc. , may be obtained by taking the resultant of a number of oscillations determined by their maximum velocities , and phases / , etc. If the intensities of the blows be equal , and the phases distributed at andom , it , from a well-known theorem of Lord , that the ectancy of he resultant intensity is , where is the number of blows delivered in unit time .
The lneasue of the intensity here is the of the maxintum velocity of the particle .
mass , the expectancy of maximum kinetic energy is therefore , and the .same expression stand for the smile of the potential and kinetic ries in resulting oscillations .
When the motion of the particle is damped so that its average energy diminishes to the exponential law , the decrease of energy per time , due to , will be proportional to say , .
A state will ultimatei be reached where the diminution due to damping will be cqual to the by the impulses , and the expecfancy of the energy will then be : .
( 1 ) The condition that the oscillator has only one degree of and that the impulses are delivered in its line of motion may now be dropped .
lf we solve the impulses and the velocity of the oscillator along three co-ordinate , the result applies to each co-ordinate separately , the average square of the component of the blows along one co-ordinate being equal to a third of square of the resultant , and , adding up the three resulting intensities , the tinal result lains the same .
It is understood , of course , that if the oscillator has only one of freedom , and the blows are delivered indiscriminatel .
in all directions , Qnly get one-third of the resultant intensity .
oblems in the Theory of diation .
4 .
Before appl .
results , a few words be said on the method of treating white light as a series of impulses .
This was first ested 1 Gouy , and ourably commeuted on by Rayleigh , and I have used it with advantage , but its value has never been sufficiently recognized .
A non-homogeneous radiation } completely defined by the distribution of energy , \mdash ; when resolved ) \mdash ; is contained within a definite range of frequencies .
Two sets of disturbances , however they may differ in detail , give , so far .
our powers go , identical results so long as their energy distribution is the same .
the tirst consideration of the subject , light is natnrall introduced as a periodic phenomenon , homogeneous radiations alone being dealt with .
In of the complicated effects we are then led to consider white light as a superposition of homo , eneouR radiations , though we can never obtain a truly continuous spectrum in this manner .
If we have recourse Co Fourier 's theol .
Gil , certain di{ficulties alise which be overcome , ) they are often best itvoided by cona ogcneous radiation to consist of superposition of similar disturbances having a finite and preferably short duration .
If it be required to represent coml ) letely a given radiation , each impulSe ) resolved \mdash ; contain required distribution ; but in the importa1lt series of prol ) lenls ivhich the of rrth affecting the solution of the ) is nall , this condition not essential .
tVithin the effective , the energy llla } be looked ) as constant , the of the not mattel .
For my purpose it is snlticicnt to consider impulse be confined to a narrow } of thickness along plane progressive -front ( 'velocity of light ) .
AVithin layer I take the force to be constant .
There is netic force at .
right angles to the translnitted in unit time ) uuit surface of the wave-fionl .
If there are equal other in unit .
the per unit is will shown in S 10 that the disturbance is analysed spectroscopicall the unit range of frequencv connected ith the impulse the .
( 2 5 .
ared to write down the result ulliulaC electrio oscillator under the action of light impulses .
The velocity ) to the electron at each impulse equation ( 1 ) therefore } ) / .
Prof. A. Schuster .
represents the fractional loss of the oscillator due to per unit time , and this is shown in the electromagnetic }eorv of to to the frequency .
Hence This with ] solution of roblem , in so far as his oscillator is Ulled to have only one of freedom ; which reduces the energy to of the above value .
-Jeans law of be put in to the form where represents the kinetic of the lnolecnle of a is proportional to the absolute ) .
This gives finally .
( 3 ) As half the of tho oscillator is potential we COllcltlde that the ultimate kinetic energy of an oscillator three degrees of freedom is equal to the of a molecule in ccordance with the law of artition .
This has already been pointed out by Planck .
The proposition ) , to the same lilnitations as the Raylei,1]-Jeans ] , and holds therefore only for low frequenci , or high temperatures , the ition b that he product of and -length shall be lalge .
It instructive to compare the above method of treatment with that ed Planck .
Both assu : no the intensity distril ) ution to be uniform within the effective of , and result is therefore not it to remain nnifornl throughout the spectrum .
Planck , from cillations , has to calculate the result of within the limits ) closely that of the riod ( the .
He thns obtains energy ation .
avoid the inteo ation by from the rated light which , in the CitSC of a disturbance having uniform intensity along nency s , consists of a sel.ies of within each of .which } electric orce is } deal with ) on the ] as a whole which is due to the ( netic force earried ) the .
If be the molecule , velocit ) of the , electron at tinl il direction wlCh the } .
force , the velocif the that the n , and electric ( lerically t , is : .
We have find the of cities for all possible combinations of ] the in which the numerical } .
we note Problems the the average of is .
The rate of increase of of the lnolecle , 10 which we attach a 1nass , is herefore ; , ( 4 ) uo $tands the square the oscillatory elocity of the electron .
Using a result obtained by M. which will be further discussed in the next it appears that a oscillator is acted on by retarding force which is equal , if be its translatory velocity .
The diminution of per nnit time thererore , to this expre , lnultiplied by , the of nd diminution energy , for the state : .
( 5 ) kinetic of the lnoleculc ends .
therefore , to become of obtained by the kinetic of , and equal to one-third of the .
of internal The the } is most asily determined culatiner the nlonlencunitted to the enclosure ; but the of action reaction is not , because a momentum that leaves the cillator in the direction of motion in time will reach the in .
, if the direction of transmission be fined 1 it with th : direction of motion , the atio i rate at the momentun eived to that at which it leaves the oscillatot .
The ) enclosure tbel c times that acting on the oscillator .
iHereuce is lnad up accumulation nentulu in the .
Thal , an accumulation ctually takes placc llay be directly .
Co } .
a point xvithin spherical enclosure lly in all irections .
At any point tlay associate ( according to oynting , momentum density with the energy density .
If value at unit distance be , its value at will be angle veon p and , the direction of motion , be , and only consider { he tnolueutull transmitted along { , we confine ourselves to the effective ) of the density , which is Mcos To obtain its total value we mnst SUlU up over the whole .
It is cleal netischc Theorie der Straldung , ' p. 116 .
Prof. A. Schusoer .
that , as the point , the luoinenlum towards will diminish , and that in the opposite direction increase , hence there is an accumulation of momentum in the direction pposed to that of the motion.1 The total momentum transmitted in the direction is easily obtained if we note that the integral is the same as that of the component , in the direction , of an attracting mass spread with uniform density over the sphere , the law of action that of the inverse square .
This resultant force is then equal to the component resolved along PR of the attraction of a sphere , concentric with the and through P. If we take as axis of a line passing the entre parallel to , we find for the resultant momentum resolved along the axis of the expression .
The momentum may now be expressed in terms of the energy of radiation .
energy density , the amount a closed surface enclosing in unit time is , and if this be denoted by I , find for the rate of increase of the momentum reholve ] in the direction of motion within the enclosure ; must , therefore , be the excess of force acting on the enclosure over that acting on the radiant source .
8 .
We now to detertuine the value of the force retarding the translatory velocity of a radiating body in virtue of its own radiation .
Abraham has iven the complete tion of this problem for an oscillator moving with a velocity which is grent comp ] , red with that of the periodic motion ( loc. cit This is not the case in the problem here considered , but it will be shown that his solution holds generally to the first order of magnitude in .
The subject being important , it is permissible to enter into more detail thau would be necessary for our main object .
Abraham 's equations the electric and netic forces due to electron any iven velocities and accelerations .
It will be found convenient to separate at once the oscillatory velocity from the translatory velocity , and to write the total velocity ?
, both quantities being looked upon as vectors .
, by simple transformations , then become Round brackets here denote scalar products and square brackets vector products .
The suffix 1\ldquo ; denotes that the vector has tillit length , so that would simply indicate the direction of the acceleration , and the cosine the angle between the direction of the acceleration of the electron and the radius vector , drawn from the electron to the point at which the electric and ulagnetic forces are required .
In the second equation it hss been assumed Some Problems in the of that the velocity and acceleration are in the same direction , so that it can only be applied to linear oscillations .
The quantity denotes .
All terms of the equations ( omitting the factor A ) have zero dimensions , and may be expressed in terms of angular co-ordination .
A hat the value .
If we wish to express our results rectanguh ] co-ordinates , we must distinguish the case of an oscillation at right angles } ) the direction of motion from that in which the oscillation is parallel to In the former we obtain , if be along the axis of and the oscillationb along ( 6 ) In the of longitudinal oscillations , the terms disappear , and we have ' energy density is ' transverse vibrationH , and for longitudinal vibration The above equations hold without limit as the elocity , but , if we wish to further , we have to examine the factor , which a term , or if When , we return to the stationary oscillator , and introduces a small correction to the Hertzian equations .
effect would\mdash ; intrr to introduce higher harmonios .
But all effects of the first power of are periodic , out during a complete illation , and for purpose we may therefore them altogether .
Coulining henceforward our tion to not higher than the first power , we may put To obtain the rate at which the uJomentum leaves the oscillator , we have according to S 7 , to multiply our expression by Taking all these matters into consideration , and introducing polar 288 Prof. A. Schuster .
, the total rate of nomentum the The term ot ffecled by , when rated ovel the sphere , and we nakly find for the retarding force acting on the oscillator .
AH we only con{ider values , we llay ubstitute tain the reHult u the previouq .
article .
For tion k , we obtain similar]y ) the rate of loss omentulll integral i , s } to the , same value as the previouh one .
The rate by a stationary simple oscillator is , and the retarding ) crefore I , independently of the direction of vibration .
Hence the ression holds for any particle , or , indeed , for a solid ) emitting white .
By an rent ethod Lived at the same result .
, on the other hand , for the retarding force in the body of his paper , and reduces that htill further in ; note at the end .
The discrepancy in the value to the intensity sent out a moving radiating surface in a direction an angle with the direction of motion .
According to this proportional , while our equations , based mainly on 's calculations , lead to 9 .
We now briefly co ver the ground , with a view to issing all unnecessary assumptions .
The most important of these is , that the molecule acts as a simple .
oscillator , , emits homogeneous radiations .
The calculation remains substantially the same , for an el .
orbits round a nucleus .
Tf the electric and netic forces of the incident radiation centrated i impulseH , each impact adding a velocity the square of the velocif ) , which originally was , will have increased to , where is bhe between and .
The angle being , the average increase of the square of the velocity will be late oi ease of internal is therefore the same as that OtHly found : .
But cannot , without the laws { action , decide } hat fraction of thal increased energy is , because the value of an instantaneous increment of velocit .
does not alty inforlnation on the of the kinetic energy in ] the new orbit .
Sucl ) an increment , the particle further away from Problems in Theory ) the centre , is indeed , as a rule , accomparlied ) the energy of There is a small increase of due to is , and as is numerically equal to , the ulse d to the force is siu times that due to the electric impulses .
1Vc may theretore disregard it , as we retain in each caHe only the first oi the force , The action of the netic force becomes important in xion the translatory lnotion , because it is there the for the rate of increase of : .
Although .
above equations still on tion t the eflect of the radiation is concel1trfited in impulses , I do not that ) tion need bc relained may be the ) the ) renl , it is difficult to resist at electric netic forces affectin , the internal as nerically equal .
The increase of lluHt ) , in the run , propoltional tlt time , between the forces the direction the electron being , we ) ) the } .
We may , therefo1e , rite for the rate of increase ) the internal and for that the into the question the of , it to 11 that the.se relations are independent of any particular .
of ) components .
We ) ' ) turn to the re force .
If be that force , the rate of tution of energy is , in of , the force is nol necessarily directly ( 1 ) ) to the city , we thelefole , } he scalar product ( Kr ) , or the velocity I the parallel to it : the other Olnponent , ) ) :al angles to the velocity , does no work .
important Hnd in of dimiuution ) ) ) When balance ] ) etween the ) .
: .
( 8 ) obtain , the ocity , I } to the equations of ) replace the velocity of ) its two , the elating to } motion .
then the ternls .
rceH i that ) of the secon 1 tlncc to of we find : .
390 Prof. A. Schuster .
and ( 9 ) lead ) depends on the law of force .
The relation has been worked out by Clausius , * ends oorces rating tenergy penergy between theInotion , these forces civen teadt 1equa.wice tkinetic energy atscase tation between tenergy ainetic energywho snverse sikekinetic awhen those hidered wcreasing tenergy owhere esen t to an exact equl-partition .
be introduced such thaC the energy per unit volume is proportional to beam of light of infinite extenlt , become infinite , but we avoid the consequent xpress ferms ought iwhich wonsider tdefinite range oreqnency.vector fdefinin.ains trove equation ( ondi s large .
Between the limits , we now have derive } ) giving the total energy of radiation ' Phil. Mag vol. 42 , p. 327 ( 1847 ) .
yleigh , 'Phil .
Mag vol. 27 , p. 460 ( 1889 ) ; Schuster , 'Phil .
Mag vol. 37 , .
Some Problems the Theory of The average value of during the time is thelefore .
A and ] } are inhnite , and increase on the average in tiolt to the time , and the energy transmitted per unit of frequency soon converges with increasing to a definite limit .
Applying the result to the case where has constant value during an interval at time and zero values at all other times , we find : If , number of equal impulses follow each other at ular intervals , and will depend on , but has the same valuc .
each impulse .
We may therefore obtain the energy by the })ressio by the total number of impulses , of which we shall suppose there unit tinle .
We then obtain .
the value To calculate the per unit volume we must apply the factor and for small values of we then find the -density per unit of frequency to be

