Farther Experiments on the Combustion of explosive Mixtures confined by WTire-gauze , with some Observations on Flame .
By Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read January 25 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 115 .
] In these experiments , the author examines what magnitude of wire and of apertures in the metallic gauze of his lamp is consistent with security against explosion of mixtures externally .
When the gauze is made of wire one fiftieth of an inch in diameter , and at intervals of one tenth , so as to make 100 apertures in the square inch , explosion may take place , either from intense ignition of the top of the lamp , or from lateral currents of air forcing the flame through the interstices .
When the intervals of the same wire were only one fourteenth , though the danger from lateral motion was obviated , still ignition of the wire caused explosion .
With intervals of one sixteenth , still there was danger from the same source ; but when the distances were reduced to one twenty-fourth on 576 apertures in the square inch , then the lamp appeared safe , under all circumstances , in mixtures of coal gas and air .
With a view to explain the non-transmission of inflammation through small apertures , the author considers the nature of flame in general ; and since a piece of phosphorus , or even a small taper , will burn in the midst of a large flame made by the combustion of alcohol , he is of opinion that oxygen exists in the centre of all flame , forming an explosive mixture with the vapour , but which burns solely at the exterior surface , because it is there alone sufficiently heated to take fire .
If a piece of wire-gauze be held in the flame of a lamp , or of coal gas , no flame passes through the gauze ; for though a portion of the inflammable vapour passes , it loses too much heat in its passage to propagate the flame ; but in the case of inflammable mixtures of coal gas entering a lamp , and burning at the interior surface , that which is exterior has not been exposed to any heating cause , and consequently is in no danger of taking fire at the sides of the lamp ; and the results of combustion which escape at the top , though heated , are no longer inflammable .
In conclusion the author informs us , that these lamps have now been tried in two of the most dangerous mines near Newcastle with perfect success ; and he has great hopes that they will shortly be adopted in many of the collieries in that neighbourhood .

