5 .
" An account of some recent improvements in Photography .
" By H. F. Talbot , Esq. F.R.S. The author had originally intended , in giving an account of his recent experiments in photography , to have entered into numerous details with respect to the phenomena observed ; but finding that to follow out this plan would occupy a considerable time , he has thought that it would be best to put the Society , in the first place , in possession of the principal facts , and by so doing perhaps invite new observers into the field during the present favourable season for making experiments .
He has , therefore , confmed himself at present to a description of the improved photographic method , to which he has given the name of Calotype , and reserves for another occasion all remarks on the theory of the process .
The following is the method of obtaining the Calotype pictures .
Preparation of the Paper . ?
Take a sheet of the best writing paper , having a smooth surface , and a close and even texture .
The watermark , if any , should be cut off , lest it should injure the appearance of the picture .
Dissolve 100 grains of crystallized nitrate of silver in six ounces of distilled water .
Wash the paper with this solution , with a soft brush , on one side , and put a mark on that side whereby to know it again .
Dry the paper cautiously at a distant fire , or else let it dry spontaneously in a dark room .
When dry , or nearly so , dip it into a solution of iodide of po ?
tassium containing 500 grains of that salt dissolved in one pint of water , and let it stay two or three minutes in this solution .
Then dip it into a vessel of water , dry it lightly with blotting-paper , and finish drying it at a fire , which will not injure it even if held pretty near : or else it may be left to dry spontaneously .
All this is best done in the evening by candlelight .
The paper so far prepared the author calls iodized paper , because it has a uni ?
form pale yellow coating of iodide of silver .
It is scarcely sensitive to light , but , nevertheless , it ought to be kept in a portfolio or a drawer , until wanted for use .
It may be kept for any length of time without spoiling or undergoing any change , if protected from the light .
This is the first part of the preparation of Calotype paper , and may be performed at any time .
The remaining part is best deferred until shortly before the paper is wanted for use .
When that time is arrived , take a sheet of the iodized paper and wash it with a liquid prepared in the following manner : ?
Dissolve 100 grains of crystallized nitrate of silver in two ounces of distilled water ; add to this solution one-sixth of its volume of strong acetic acid .
Let this mixture be called A. Make a saturated solution of crystallized gallic acid in cold di ?
stilled water .
The quantity dissolved is very small .
Call this solution B. When a sheet of paper is wanted for use , mix together the liquids A and B in equal volumes , but only mix a small quantity of them at a time , because the mixture does not keep long without spoiling .
I shall call this mixture the Gallo-nitrate of silver .
Then take a sheet of iodizedpaper and wash it over with this gallo " nitrate of silver , with a soft brush , taking care to wash it on the side which has been previously marked .
This operation should be per ?
formed by candlelight .
Let the paper rest half a minute , and then dip it into water .
Then dry it lightly with blotting-paper , and finally dry it cautiously at a fire , holding it at a considerable distance therefrom .
When dry , the paper is fit for use .
The author has named the paper thus prepared Calotype paper , on account of its great utility in obtaining the pictures of objects with the camera obscura .
If this paper be kept in a press it will often retain its qualities in perfection for three months or more , being ready for use at any moment ; but this is not uniformly the case , and the author therefore recommends that it should be used in a few hours after it has been prepared .
If it is used immediately , the last drying may be dispensed with , and the paper may be used moist .
Instead of employing a solution of crystallized gallic acid for the liquid B , the tincture of galls diluted with water may be used , but he does not think the results are altogether so satisfactory .
Use of the Paper . ?
The Calotype paper is sensitive to light in an ex ?
traordinary degree , which transcends a hundred times or more that of any kind of photographic paper hitherto described .
This may bemade manifest by the following experiment : ?
Take a piece of this paper , and having covered half of it , expose the other half to daylight for the space of one second in dark cloudy weather in winter .
This brief moment suffices to produce a strong impression upon the paper .
But the impression is latent and invisible , and its existence would not be suspected by any one who was not forewarned of it by pre ?
vious experiments .
The method of causing the impression to become visible is extremely simple .
It consists in washing the paper once more with the gallo-nitrate of silver , prepared in the way before described , and then warming it gently before the fire .
In a few seconds the part of the paper upon which the light has acted begins to darken , and finally grows entirely black , while the other part of the paper retains its whiteness .
Even a weaker impression than this may be brought out by repeating the wash of gallo-nitrate of silver , and again warming the paper .
On the other hand , a stronger impres ?
sion does not require the warming of the paper , for a wash of the gallo-nitrate suffices to make it visible , without heat , in the course of a minute or two .
A very remarkable proof of the sensitiveness of the Calotype paper is afforded by the fact stated by the author , that it will take an im ?
pression from simple moonlight , not concentrated by a lens .
If a leaf is laid upon a sheet of the paper , an image of it may be obtained in this way in from a quarter to half an hour .
This paper being possessed of so high a degree of sensitiveness , is therefore well suited to receive images in the camera obscura .
If the aperture of the object-lens is one inch , and the focal length fifteen inches , the author finds that one minute is amply sufficient in summer to impress a strong image upon the paper of any building upon which the sun is shining .
When the aperture amounts to one-third of the focal length , and the object is very white , as a plaster bust , &amp; c , it appears to him that one second is sufficient to obtain a pretty good image of it .
The images thus received upon the Calotype paper are for the most part invisible impressions .
They may be made visible by the process already related , namely , by washing them with the gallonitrate of silver , and then warming the paper .
When the paper is quite blank , as is generally the case , it is a highly curious and beautiful phenomenon to see the spontaneous commencement of the picture , first tracing out the stronger outlines , and then gra ?
dually filling up all the numerous and complicated details .
The artist should watch the picture as it developes itself , and when in his judgment it has attained the greatest degree of strength and clearness , he should stop further progress by washing it with the fixing liquid .
The fixing process . ?
To fix the picture , it should be first washed with water , then lightly dried with blotting paper , and then washed with a solution of bromide of potassium , containing 100 grains of that salt dissolved in eight or ten ounces of water .
After a minute or two it should be again dipped in water and then finally dried .
The picture is in this manner very strongly fixed , and with this great advantage , that it remains transparent , and that , therefore , there is no difficulty in obtaining a copy from it .
The Ca ?
lotype picture is a negative one , in which the lights of nature are represented by shades ; but the copies are positive , having the lights conformable to nature .
They also represent the objects in their natural position with respect to right and left .
The copies may be made upon Calotype paper in a very short time , the invisible impressions being brought out in the way already described .
But the author prefers to make the copies upon photographic paper pre ?
pared in the way which he originally described in a memoir read to the Royal Society in February 1839 , and which is made by washing the best writing paper , first with a weak solution of com ?
mon salt , and next with a solution of nitrate of silver .
Although it takes a much longer time to obtain a copy upon this paper , yet when obtained , the tints appear more harmonious and pleasing to the eye ; it requires in general from 3 minutes to 30 minutes of sunshine , according to circumstances , to obtain a good copy on this sort of photographic paper .
The copy should be washed and dried , and the fixing process ( which may be deferred to a subse ?
quent day ) is the same as that already mentioned .
The copies are made by placing the picture upon the photographic paper , with a board below and a sheet of glass above , and pressing the papers into close contact by means of screws or otherwise .
After a Calotype picture has furnished several copies , it sometimes grows faint , and no more good copies can then be made from it .
But these pictures possess the beautiful and extraordinary property of being susceptible of revival .
In order to revive them and restore their original appearance , it is only necessary to wash them again by candlelight with gallo-nitrate of silver , and warm them : this causes all the shades of the picture to darken greatly , while the white parts remain unaffected .
The shaded parts of the paper thus acquire an opacity which gives a renewed spirit and life to the copies , of which a second series may now be taken , extending often to a very considerable number .
In reviving the picture it sometimes happens that various details make their appearance which had not before been seen , having been latent all the time , yet nevertheless not destroyed by their long exposure to sunshine .
The author terminates these observations by stating a few experiments calculated to render the mode of action of the sensitive paper more familiar .
1 .
Wash a piece of the iodizedpaper with the gallo-nitrate ; expose it to daylight for a second or two , and then withdraw it .
The paper will soon begin to darken spontaneously , and will grow quite black .
2 .
The same as before , but let the paper be warmed .
The blackening will be more rapid in consequence of the warmth .
3 .
Put a large drop of the gallo-nitrate on one part of the paper and moisten another part of it more sparingly , then leave it ex ?
posed to a very faint daylight ; it will be found that the lesser quantity produces the greater effect in darkening the paper ; and in general , it will be seen that the most rapid darkening takes place at the moment when the paper becomes nearly dry ; also , if only a portion of the paper is moistened , it will be observed that the edges or boundaries of the moistened part are more acted on by light than any other part of the surface .
4 .
If the paper , after being moistened with the gallo-nitrate , is washed with water and dried , a slight exposure to daylight no longer suffices to produce so much discoloration ; indeed it often produces none at all .
But by subsequently washing it again with the gallo-nitrate and warming it , the same degree of discoloration is developed as in the other case ( experiments 1 and 2 ) .
The dry paper appears , therefore , to be equal , or superior in sensitiveness to the moist ; only with this difference , that it receives a virtual instead of an actual impression from the light , which it requires a subsequent process to develope .
5 .
" New mode of preparation of the Daguerre'otype plates , by which portraits can be taken in the short space of time of from five to fifteen seconds , according to the power of light , discovered by A. Claudet in the beginning of May 1841 .
" Communicated by the Marquis of Northampton , Pres. R.S. " My improvement , " says the author , " consists in using for the preparation of the plates , a combination of chlorine with iodine , in the state of chloride of iodine .
I follow the preparation recommended by Daguerre .
After having put the plate in the iodine box for a short time , and before it has acquired any appearance of yellow co ?
lour , I take it out , and pass it for about two seconds over the open ?
ing of a bottle containing chloride of iodine ; and immediately I put it again in the iodine box , where it acquires very soon the yellow colour , which shows that the plate is ready to be placed into the camera obscura .
I have substituted to the chloride of iodine , chloride of bromine , and have found nearly the same result ; but I prefer chloride of iodine as producing a better effect ; and besides , on account of the noxious smell of bromine .
" The result of my preparation is such , that I have operatedin ten seconds with the same apparatus , which , without any chlorine , required four or five minutes ; when using only the original prepara ?
tion of Daguerre , I have obtained an image of clouds in four seconds .
"

