]\gt ; tli$b the -rays of radium , the chance of a -ray ( if it spends its range a radiator ) making a -ray is roughly proportional to the atomic weight of the radiator .
Somewhat similar results to those obtained above have been found by Kaye*for the production of -rays by cathode rays in radiators of the order of cm .
in thiokness .
He found that the emergent -radiation was greater in amount ' the incident radiation , and also more penetrating .
An analysis similar to that made above is impossible , but the main explanation of the results must be that the -radiation tends to move in the same direction as the cathode radiation exciting it .
Theoret at The result that the -radiation excited in " " thin\ldquo ; sheets is practically all emergent shows that , in general , such radiation , in any amount , is not formed by small deflections of the -rays .
Let us suppose AOB ( fig. 5 ) represents the path of a -ray suddenly deflected at , through a right angle , giving X FIG. 6 .
FIG. 6 .
rise to -radiation .
It is clear that such radiation , if due to the acceleration of the particle near , will not move in any one definite direction , and , even if it did , that direction would probably be OX .
Such comparatively small deflections cannot therefore be the cause of the -rays , or , at least , of any large amount of such radiation .
It is seen from this that -radiation is most likely to be produced when the -ray is suddenly stopped .
We will , therefore , assume that the -ray only arises when the -ray is suddenly stopped or loses a great part of its energy , and try to explain results on the theory of Sir J. J. Thomson , which seems , of theories akin to the ordinary pulse theory , the most suitable .
'Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc November , 1909 , , p. 269 .
It is considered that the -ray stops if it forms a -ray in the way supposed by Brag , as well as by loss of speed .
PhiL Mag February , 1910 , vol. 19 , p. 301 .
VOL LXXXVI.\mdash ; A. 2 same material the thinner the radiator , for radiators of different materials thick enough to stop the -rays , the lower the atomic weight .
( 3 ) Results obtained point to the conclusion that the ray is an entity , the direction of which is nearly that of the -ray it .
( 4 ) For -rays of the speed used , the chance of a -ray making a -ray is roughly proportional to the atomic weight of the radiator , provided the spends its range in the radiator .
In conclusion , the writer has much pleasure in expressing his best thanks to Prof. Rutherford for his very helpful interest in this research , and for the use of the active preparation of radium necessary .
The After-luminosity of Electric Discharge in , observed by Hertz .
By the Hon. B. J. STRUTT , F.B.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received March l , \mdash ; Read lsiarch 21 , 1912 .
) In previous papers I have examined certain striking cases of afterluminosity in gases through which the electric discharge has been passed .
The cases dealt with fall under two heads , those due to ozone , and those due to active nitrogen .
I wish now to pass.to a case in which neither of these substances is concerned .
Hertz* described a phenomenon of after-luminosity which he had observed in hydrogen .
The method of investigation was somewhat special .
A series of jar discharges was passed through a small discharge tube , with an open end , a1ranged inside a bell jar .
It was then observed that at each discharge a stream of luminous gas was squirted from the end of the small discharge tube into the bell jar .
This is apparently due to a kind of explosive action of the spark-.the same , probably , as that described by De La Rue and Muller The method is well adapted to show the afterglow in other gases , nitrogen or air , for instance , but the immediate concern is with hydrogen .
With this gas , Hertz sometimes observed ajet of blue luminosity , which was best developed at a pressure of * Wied .
Ann 1883 , vol. 19 , p. 78 . .
' Phil. Trans 1880 , vol. 171 , p. 86 .

