PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
1844 .
No. 60 .
November 30 , 1844 .
At the Anniversary Meeting , The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
Mr. Dollond , on the part of the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts , reported , that the total receipts during the past year , inelusive of a balance of 19941 .
7s .
ld .
, carried from the account of the preceding year , amounted to 46031 .
18s .
2d .
; and that the total amur , -nt of payments in the same period amounted to 26631 .
5s .
6d .
, leavi:ng a bajance in the hands of the Treasurer of 19401 .
12s .
8d .
'T : thanks of the Meeting were given to the Auditors for the trouble they have taken in examining the Treasurer 's Accounts .
'iThe Duke of Hamilton was elected , on the part of the Society , a Trustee of the Soane Museum .
The Secretary then read the following lists of deceased Fellows of the Royal Society , and of those admitted into the Society since the last Anniversary in 1843 .
List of Fellows of the Royal Society deceased since the last Anniversary ( 1843 ) .
On the Home List .
William Allen , Esq. Francis Bailey , Esq. Rear Admiral Sir Robojt Barlow .
Rev. Henry Card .
James Carson , Esq. , M.D. William Stanley Clarke , Esq. Rev. Daniel Cresswell , D.D. John Dalton , Esq. , D.C.L. Rev. James Farquharson .
John Lewis Guillemard , Esq. Sir H.enry Halford , Bart. Capt. Basil Hall , R.N. Thomas Henderson , Esq. Very Rev. Robert Hodgson , Dean of Carlisle .
Thomas Charles Hope , Esq. , M.D. James Mlacartney , Esq. John Grant Malcolmson , Esq. , M.D. John Thomas Mayne , Esq. Charles Savill Onley , Esq. Right Hon. Sir Gore Ouseley .
Henry Robinson Palmer , Esq. Rev. John Barlow Seal , John Smirnove , Esq. William Speer , Esq. George Frederick Stratton , Esq. , LL. D. Robert Stern Tighe , Esq. Ceased to be a Fellow in default of his Annual Payment .
Lieut. HI .
A. Ormsbsy .
List of Admissions into the Royal Society since the last Anniversary ( 1843 ) .
On the Foreign List .
His MAJESTY FREDERICK KING OF SAXONY .
On the Home List .
Capt. William Allen , R.N. David Thomas Ansted , Esq. , M.A. Archibald Billing , Esq. , M.D. John Bishop , Esq. Edward Bury , Esq. William Benjamin Carpenter , Esq. , M.D. Capt. F. R. M. Crozier , R.N. Walter Crum , Esq. Rt. Hon. the Earl of Haddington .
Charles James Hargreave , Esq. , B.L. Charles Hood , Esq. William Henry Hyett , Esq. Thomas Rymer Jones , Esq. Thomas Kerigan , Esq. , R.N. Capt. Thomas A. Larcom , R.E. Richard Quain , Esq. Francis Ronalds , Esq. John Frederick Stanford , Esqo John Webster , Esq. , M.D. The President then addressed the Meeting as follows : GENTLEMEN , THE time has again come round for my addressing you , and for expressing my own gratitude , as well as yours , to your Council for their constant and zealous attention to the interests of the Royal Society .
We have been compelled during several late years to have recourse to legal proceedings on the subject of the great tithes of Mablethorp , a portion of the Society 's property , and I rejoice to say with success .
In my last address , I was required to give our thanks to Mr. Watt and to Mr. Dollond for the valuable busts which they had kindly presented to us .
That of Mr. Dollond is placed at the commencement of the staircase leading to our apartments , and serves to indicate that his valuable improvements in the construction of our telescopes have been so many steps to the acquisition of higher and higher knowledge of the great universe of which this globe forms so insignificant a part .
By the liberality of Mr. Watt we shall soon be furnished with handsome pedestals for the busts of his father and of Sir Isaac Newton , the two great lights of British mechanical genius and British philosophical science .
Mr. Gilbert has kindly undertaken to furnish a similar pedestal for the bust of his father , and we have thought it right to provide one for that of Sir Joseph Banks .
These will shortly form a conspicuous ornament of our place of meeting .
The magnetical observatories are still carrying on their observations , both in Her Majesty 's dominions and in foreign countries , and another naval officer , Lieut. Moore , has proceeded to the Antarctic Seas to complete a portion of the survey of Captain Sir James IRoss , which was interrupted by stress of weather .
That gallant and enterprising officer will , I hope , ere long give to us and to the public his own narrative of his important discoveries .
Detailed accounts of the botany and zoology of the regions visited by him are preparing under the patronage of the Government , while Colonel Sabine is proceeding with the magnetical observations , which were the more immediate objects of this , one of the most important voyages of discovery ever undertaken .
During the course of the year just expired , the presence in England of the King of Saxony gave us the opportunity of obtaining the honour of his accession to the list of the Royal Members of our Society , -a circumstance the more gratifying , as His Majesty is a follower as well as a patron of science .
The cordial co-operation of His Imperial Majesty the Emperor of Russia in the magnetical inquiries carrying on by our own and other governments , mainly at the request of the Royal Society , makes us the more to regret that the shortness of his stay in England rendered it impossible for us to obtain his signature in our Charter-book in addition to those of so many other sovereigns .
The absence from London of the King of the French during his late short stay in England , as well as our own vacation , precluded us from taking any steps for the election of that monarch .
This we must all lament when we advert to the proximity of the two nations , and to the eminent services that so many men of the greatest genius , industry and talent on the other side of the Channel have rendered to science .
In thus adverting to the visits of these royal strangers to our sovereign , I trust that I shall neither be accused of adulation nor of introducing politics where they would be peculiarly unseasonable .
In my opinion , science is herself so illustrious , that she can receive no additional wreath from any follower or patron , however exalted in rank or power , but , on the contrary , that she will confer honour on them .
But though this be true of science in the abstract , yet a society like ours must gain by such additions to its ranks ; and though the powerful of the earth cannot make the cause of science more intrinsically honourable , yet they can make her progress more easy and more rapid .
As long as we feel that her advancement must promote all the best interests of humanity , so long we must rejoice to see the sovereigns of nations , differing in their language , their polity and their religion , nevertheless uniting to increase our knowledge of the wonderfill works of the Author of Nature , and to augment our capability of employing that knowledge in the service of mankind .
The two Medals placed at our disposal by Her Majesty have been adjudged by your Council to Mr. Boole and Dr. Andrews , and the Copley Medal to Signor Matteucci of Pisa .
I regret that the latter distinguished foreign philosopher , whom I and many of yourselves , Gentlemen , had the pleasure of seeing this autumn in England , should not be still among us , that I might have the opportunity of bestowing it in person .
Mr. DANIELL , I beg to present to you the Copley Medal for your friend Signor Matteucci , which has been awarded to him by the Council of the Royal Society for his important discoveries in the magnetic electricity of animal nature .
These discoveries , so singular and so new in themselves , appear to promise results of the highest importance , not only in theoretical science , but also in its practical application to the relief of pain and the cure or alleviation of disease .
Whatever may , however , be their ultimate result , the scientific world must ever retain the liveliest sense of the merits of Signor Matteucci , and must ever consider him as adding new lustre to the glory that a Galvani has already given to their common country .
Mr. CHRISTIE , I have to beg that you will take charge of the Medal for Mr. Boole , awarded to him for his important papers on a General Method of Analysis , published in our Transactions for the present year , containing matter as useful as it is original , and classifying and conprehending analytical operations* .
That Mr. Boole will continue " The object which the author proposes in this paper is to illustrate the importance of conducting processes of reduction through the medium of separation of symbols by the assumption of an exponential form for the principal quantity operated on .
The method , therefore , consists in the transformation of given forms , from x to 6 , by means of the relation x= se , and operating on the results by certain refined processes .
Although the facilities which the exponential form affords , under certain circumstances , have long been known to analysts , in no investigation does the importance of this form appear in the manner in which it is exhibited in this paper .
Here the author has shown a method which classifies and comprehends operations , and which has the advantage ( in some cases at least ) of showing their limits .
The author applies his method to the solution of differential equations and of equations of differences .
In the finite solution of differential equations , the beauty and utility of the method are strikingly exhibited .
Certain forms of equations , the solutions of which have been effected by transformations or by a happy assumption , are made , by the author 's method , to exhibit their solutions in dependence on a law .
Both the processes by which the transformations are effected and the results obtained by them are of the highest interest and importance ; and this part of the paper is so valuable , that , alone , it would entitle the author to honorary distinction .
In the application to equations of differences , under which head are included generating functions , series , and the author 's miscellaneous theorems , the advantages of a general method must likewise be fully recognised ; and the Council are satisfied that the author has done good service in the applications which he has made of his method in this branch of analysis .
Anticipating that Mr. Boole 's method will find a permanent place in the science , the Council have not hesitated to award to him the Royal Medal .
his mathematical pursuits must be the wish of every friend of science .
Dr. ANDREWS , I have the honour of presenting to you one of the Royal Medals , which has been adjudged to you for your valuable paper on the Thermal Changes accompanying Basic Substitutions* .
I hope this will not be the last on chemical subjects that we shall receive at your hands .
Since our last Anniversary we have lost many distinguished members of our Society , of whom the usual obituary will contain a short account ; among these we have to regret the death of Sir Henry Halford , who for so long a period presided over the College of Physicians ; and of Dr. Hope , who for very many years was Professor of Chemistry in the University of Edinburgh .
We have still more immediate reason to lament the decease of one of our ablest and most zealous colleagues , of that distinguished astronomer the late Mr. Bailey , , who has always taken an active share in the business as well as in the scientific pursuits of the Royal Society .
We have also to deplore the death , at a venerable age , of Dr. Dalton of Manchester , whose eminent discoveries have so largely contributed to our chemical knowledge and to the scientific reputation of England .
SIR HENRY HALFORD , Bart. , G.C.H. , was the son of Dr. James Vaughan of Leicester , and was born on the 2nd of October 1766 .
He received his preliminary education at Rugby , and graduated at Christ Church College , Oxford , in the year 1794 .
He established himself as physician in London , and quickly rose to great eminence in his profession .
Distinguished no less by the elegance of his manners than by the extent of his classical acquirements , his practice rapidly increased , and he soon became the favourite physician of the court and of the elevated circles of rank and fashion .
In 1809 he came into possession of an ample fortune on the death of Sir Charles Halford , a cousin of his mother , who was a daughter of Lord St. John , and in consequence of this acquisition he changed his name from Vaughan to Halford , a baronetcy being at the same time conferred upon him by George the Third , who had previously appointed him his physician .
He continued to hold a similar appointment under George the Fourth , Williarn the Fourth , and her present Majesty , and thus enjoyed the remarkable distinction of having possessed the confidence of four successive sovereigns , and of having attended professionally almost every member of the Royal Family .
To the honours thus emanating from royal favour were added the highest which the members of his own profession could confer .
Sir Henry Halford was elected President of the College of Physicians in the year 1820 , and held this .
office till his death , which happened in the month of March of the present year .
His constitution was naturally robust , and its vigour was sustained unimpaired to an advanced period of life ; but in later years the advance of age had become perceptible , his activity declined , and his constitution at last sank , in the 78th year of his age , under the exhaustion consequent on a neuralgic affection .
He was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1810 ; he contributed no paper to our Transactions , but has enriched those of the College of Physicians with numerous valuable essays on professional subjects .
His orations pronounced before the College are remarkable for the classical purity and elegance of their latinity .
FRANCIS BAILEY , Esq.-It is with a feeling of sorrow , in which I know that every Fellow of the Royal Society will participate , that I have to notice the irreparable loss of our distinguished colleague Mr. Francis Bailey .
The memoir of Mr. Bailey , which has been drawn up by Sir J. Herschel , and which is now in the press , will contain so full an account of his personal history and so elaborate an analysis of his various scientific labours , that I feel that I should do injustice to my subject if I attempted to sketch a character which he has painted with so much warmth and fullness of colouring , and with such characteristic accuracy of outline and detail ; and it is only with reference to his connexion with the Royal Society that I will venture to say a very few words .
Mr. Bailey was for several years Treasurer of our Society , and generally held a seat in our Council , and was rarely absent from its meetings .
We are greatly indebted to him for much of the order and system which prevail in our finances ; and upon every subject connected with our administration his opinion was always listened to with the respect and attention which was due to his excellent temper , good sense and judgement .
On questions of science he never spoke when his knowledge of the subject did not entitle him to speak with authority , and various as were the scientific researches in which he was engaged , he never undertook a task which he did not execute with extraordinary promptitude , completeness and accuracy ; so correct was the estimate which he had formed of the extent of his own powers ; so persevering and systematic was his industry .
Dt .
THOMAS CIARLES HOPE was the son of Dr. John Hope , Professor of Botany in the University of Edinburgh , and was born at Edinburgh on the 21st of July 1766 .
His devotion to chemical science and his recognition as a chemist date from an early period of his life ; for he was , on the death of Dr. Irvine , appointed Lecturer on Chemistry at Glasgow on the 10th of October 1787 , while yet in his twenty-first year .
He was farther , in 1789 , appointed Professor of Medicine in the same university , conjointly with his uncle Dr. Stevenson .
It does not appear , however , that he had actually delivered lectures on either subject in Glasgow until 1793 ; he most probably passed the interval in studying at home and abroad , for we are informed that he returned from France in 1791 , and he thereafter continued to lecture at Glasgow until 1795 .
At this period , he received the distinguished compliment of being recommended by Dr. Black as his assistant and successor in the chemical chair at Edinburgh .
Accordingly , in 1795 , Dr. Hope entered on his new duties by delivering a course conjointly with Dr. Black , whose decaying powers permitted him only to deliver the lectures on Caloric .
In this , as well as in the courses of chemistry which he delivered in Glasgow , Dr. Hope taught the then recent doctrines of Lavoisier , which had not yet entirely overthrown the doctrine of phlogiston , and had not previously been publicly taught by any professor in Britain .
Dr. Hope 's exertions during his residence at Glasgow had not been limited to writing and improving his lectures .
On the 4th of November 1793 , he read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh his well-known paper , " On a mineral from Strontian , " in which he pointed out the existence of an undescribed earth , distinct from barytes , with which it had been confounded , and to which he gave the name of Strontites .
In 1803 , in the 6th volume of Nicholson 's Journal , a brief notice was published of the instrument with which Dr. Hope employed a solution of sulphuret of potassium for eudiometrical purposes ; and in 1804 , he laid before the Royal Society of Edinburgh the careful and elegant experiments , by which he demonstrated that the proposition laid down by Dr. Croune in 1683 regarding the expansion of water by cold is really correct ; and that the phenomena observed do not depend , as Hooke and others had maintained , on changes occurring in the capacity of the vessel in which the experiment is conducted .
From these researches , Dr. Hope concluded that the maximum density of water is at 391 ?
or 40 ?
Fahr. ; a result confirmed by the more recent and very accurate experiments of Hallstrdm , who estimates its point of greatest density at 39'39 ?
Fahr. This , his favourite subject , received a still further elucidation from him at a later period of his life .
In 1839 he read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh a paper , in which he showed that this law held true with regard to water only in its pure state ; and that when it contains saline matters in solution , as in sea-water , it follows the ordinary law of regularly progressive expansion by heat and contraction by cold .
The last communication which Dr. Hope made to the chemical world was in 1843 , when he read two papers on the colouring matter of the Camellia japonica , Magnolia grandiflora , and Chrysanthemrum leucanthemum .
In these communications , he asserted the existence of three new proximate organic bodies , to which he gave the names of Camelline , Magnoline and Leuzcanthemine , but which he did not obtain in a separate form .
Dr. Hope 's claims on the gratitude of the chemical world are not to be estimated by his merits as an observer .
He seems , from the first , to have resolved to devote himself rather to the business of teaching than of research .
He spared no pains to make his lectures attractive to the student ; his style of writing was elegant and concise , and his delivery easy but impressive .
The great charm of his lectures , however , consisted in the elegant experiments with which he illustrated them : these were so well-devised , so skilfully arranged and so neatly performed , that a failure on his lecture-table was an occurrence almost unknown .
One other circumstance which contributed to his success as a lecturer was the excellent health which he enjoyed .
During a period of nearly sixty years , in which he was engaged in studying or teaching medicine and chemistry , he was not more than six days in all prevented by illness from discharging his duties .
He retained his vigour and his faculties with little diminution till within a short period of his death ; but in 1843 , finding himself unequal to the duties of his class , he arranged with his colleague Dr. Traill to deliver the lectures for him , and shortly after resigned the appointment into the hands of the patrons .
Dr. Gregory was appointed to the vacant chair , and before he had entered on its duties his veteran predecessor died at Edinburgh on the 13th of June 1844 , in the 78th year of his age .
CAPTAIN BASIL HALL , I.N. , was one of the younger sons of the late Sir James Hall of Dunglass .
Sir James was himself a man of very active mind , and is well known to all geologists for the experiments instituted by him in corroboration of the opinion of his illustrious friend Professor Playfair , and his ingenious speculations on the origin of pointed architecture must be equally well known to the mediaeval antiquary .
Sir James was for some years President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , and it may well be supposed that our late fellow inherited his father 's love for science in general , and more especially for those sciences with which the naval profession has so much to do .
He was born on the last day of the year 1788 , and entered on his professional career in the month of June 1802 .
He commanded the Lyra at the time when Lord Amherst was sent on a mission to the court of Pekin , and published an interesting account of his visit to Loo-Choo .
He was author of ' observations on a comet at the time when he was on the South American station , and of a paper on the geology of the Cape of Good Hope at an early period of his life .
His favourite science was astronomy ; but geology could not be indifferent to the son of Sir James Hall .
He was always most anxious to serve science by receiving the instructions of distinguished philosophers , and recording for their use observations made by him in the distant parts of the world which he had the opportunity of visiting .
He was an able observer and practical astronomer , and had occasion to turn these qualities to excellent account as a naval officer .
He was author of many works of great interest , chiefly connected with what he had himself seen in different parts of the globe .
He married Miss Hunter on the 1st of March 1825 , and left a family at his death .
ADMIRAL SIR ROBERT BARLOW was born in the year 1758 , and attained the rank of captain in the Royal Navy in June 1793 .
His naval career was distinguished by eminent services ; and on the 24th of January 1823 , he was promoted to the rank of rear admiral on the retired list , by reason of his holding the situation of Commissioner of the Navy , to which he had been appointed in the year 1808 .
He had the honour of being made a Knight Commander of the Bath on the first establishment of that order in its present shape , and received a Grand Cross by seniority the year before his death .
He expired on the 11th of May 1843 , at the advanced age of 85 .
By an accidental omission , his name was not mentioned in the obituary of last year .
SIR GORE OUSELEY , G.C.H. , was born in 1770 , and was second son of Ralph Ouseley , Esq. , by his first wife , the daughter of Henry Holland , Esq. , of Limerick .
He went to India in early life , and there displayed that aptitude for the acquirement of Eastern languages to which he was mainly indebted for his subsequent political advancement .
After his return , he married , in 1806 , Miss Whitelock , by whom he left the son who has succeeded him in his hereditary honours .
His useful services as a Persian linguist at the time when a Persian envoy had visited our shores , procured for him the post of ambassador at the court of Persia in 1810 .
He afterwards proceeded to St. Petersburg .
IHe was created a privy councillor and a baronet , and he was also invested with the Russian order of Alexander , and the Persian order of the Lion and Sun .
His gentlemanly address and the agreeableness of his manners rendered him a general favourite in society .
He died at his seat , Hall Barn Park , on the 18th day of the present month , in the 75th year of his age , and is succeeded in his title and estates by his son Frederick Arthur Gore , the present baronet , who was born in the year 1825 .
JOHN DALTON was born on the 5th of September , 1766 , at Eaglesfield , near Cockermouth , in the Cumberland Lake district .
He passed some years as teacher of mathematics in a school at Kendal , and removed in 1793 to Manchester , where he continued to reside during the whole of his after.life .
It was doubtless his long residence among the lakes and mountains of Cumberland , and his consequent early familiarity with the evervarying conditions of the atmosphere observable in that district , that gave the first impulse to his genius , and materially influenced his subsequent scientific career .
His earliest important publication was a Treatise on Meteorology , which furnished a clear compendium of all the facts then ascertained , and made known various original views , especially on the altitude of the Aurora Borealis .
From observing and recording the sensible atmospheric changes , the phenomena of dew , of clouds and of temperature , he was naturally impelled to inquire into the constitution of the atmosphere , and more generally of mixed elastic fluids , and into the theory of evaporation and the laws of heat .
On these questions he made public , through the Transactions of the Manchester Society , a series of experimental memoirs , of which it is impossible to over-estimate the importance .
His first conception of the mutual relations of mixed gases was , that each gas stood in the relation of a vacuum to the particles of all other gases ; but in his New System of Chemical Philosophy he subsequently relaxed the strictness of this original proposition , by conceding that the particles presented some mechanical impediment to comlmingling .
He ascertained the form of the vapours of water and some other liquids at different temperatures , and dispelled by these experiments and others of equal importance the obscurity in which the theory of vaporization had been left by De Luc and Saussure .
He first showed that a given space , whether void or filled with any gas , in contact with water , contains precisely the same amount of aqueous vapour , and thus established the non-existence of chemical affinity between the gas and the steam of water .
It is impossible not to be impressed with the beautiful simplicity of the instruments by which these important results were wrought out .
Four barometric tubes , filled with mercury , over which were admitted small columns of water , alcohol , ether and sulphuret of carbon , were the means employed for the admeasurement of the comparative forms of the vapours at different atmospheric or artificial temperatures .
Among these successive memoirs is one of great merit on the heat evolved during the entrance of air into a vacuum .
He showed the inadequacy of the therrnmoeter to serve as a measure of this evanescent elevation of temperature , and by an ingenious contrivance obtained a much closer approximation to the true heat .
The first part of his New System of Chemical Philosophy will probably constitute the most durable monument of his scientific genius ; in this small volume are condensed the results of many years ' patient thinking and of much laborious research ; those larger portions , which are devoted to the measure of temperature and the theory of specific heat , may still be studied with advantage , though they were deemed by Dr. Dalton himself to have been in great part superseded by the labours of MM .
Petit and Dulong .
The short concluding chapter contains the first announcement of the atomic doctrine of chemical combination .
He has often expressly stated that the tables of chemical equivalents constructed by Wenzel and Richter first suggested to him the conception that chemical combination must have place between the ultimate particles or indivisible atoms of bodies .
The tabulated differences of weight of the different bases required to neutralise a given weight of acid would , on this hypothesis , represent the respective weights of their ultimate atoms .
Further evidence of more decisive character presented itself in the instances in which one body combines with another in more than one proportion .
The successive combining quantities were ascertained to be represented by numbers that were simple multiples of the smallest or lowest quantity .
Dr. Dalton 's earliest illustration of his law of multiple proportions was derived from the gaseous compounds of oxygen and nitrogen .
Dr. Wollaston afterwards discovered other examples of the law in the tartrates and oxalates , and M. Gay Lussac 's precise experiments on gaseous combination completed the chain of evidence .
All the phenomena of inorganic chemistry have been since shown to be in strict accordance with the atomic hypothesis , which has banished the uncertainty of conflicting results , by enabling the experimentalist to anticipate and correct his analyses , and has thus raised chemistry , as respects numerical precision , almost to the rank of a mathematical science .
It would be inconsistent with the principles of logical induction to claim for the atomic doctrine higher rank than that of the most convenient form of expressing and recording chemical phenomena , and of the most probable hypothesis that has been hitherto proposed for interpreting chemical combination .
In the field of organic analysis , which has of late years been laboured with signal success , rules of combination seem to obtain which are difficultly reconcileable with the doctrine of Dalton .
It is scarcely possible to conceive the mechanical juxtaposition of so large a number of elementary atoms as would appear to constitute one compound organic atom ; there are consequently many among the cultivators of this branch of chemical science who refiuse to accept the atomic hypothesis as now constituting a sufficient generalization of established facts .
Yet even in the chemistry of vegetable substances , the remarkable changes discovered by Mitscherlich , which he conceives best explained by the union of propejacent atoms of hydrogen and oxygen , and their elimination in the form of water , minister strong support to the theory of atomic combination .
Without venturing to anticipate the future destinies of the hypothesis of Dalton , it is sufficient for the fame of its author to acknowledge the mighty impulse it has given to the progress of chemical knowledge .
Dr. Dalton died on the 27th of July last .
THOMAS HENDERSON , Professor of Practical Astronomy in the University of Edinburgh , and Her Majesty 's Astronomer for Scotland , was born at Dundee on the 28th of December 1798 , and received a competent classical and mathematical education at the excellent public schools of that town .
He was intended for the legal profession , and at the age of fifteen was placed in the office of a solicitor in Dundee , where he continued six years .
During this period he began , without any other assistance than such as he could derive from books , to devote his leisure time to the study of astronomy , and being gifted with a quick apprehension and extraordinary powers of memory , he very soon made himself acquainted with the practical parts of the science , and acquired great dexterity in astronomical computations .
At the age of twenty-one he removed to Edinburgh , for the purpose of completing his legal education , and some time afterwards he was employed as private secretary to the Earl of Lauderdale .
In Edinburgh his knowledge of astronomy procured him the acquaintance of some of the most eminent professors and scientific characters of that metropolis , whose encouragement no doubt tended to stimulate his efforts and confirm his tastes ; and in the small observatory belonging to the Astronomical Institution he had an opportunity of becoming acquainted with the use of , instruments .
That he used his opportunities to good purpose is apparent from the communications he now began to make to the Royal Astronomical Society , both of observations made by him at Edinburgh and of various useful calculations , relating chiefly to moon-culminating stars , but extending also to other phenomena ; and at the anniversary meeting of that body in 1830 he received their thanks for " the very valuable assistance which he had rendered to the cause of astronomy in his various computations presented to the Society .
" His connexion with Lord Lauderdale brought him occasionally to London , where his contributions to the Astronomical Society secured him a favourable reception from astronomers , and the high opinion which had been formed of his talents was confirmed by personal intercourse and observation of the extent and remarkable accuracy of his astronomical knowledge .
In October 1831 he was appointed to succeed Mr. Fallows as astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope .
Causes of a nature entirely personal led to his resignation of this appointment at the end of about a year after he had entered on its duties ; but though the time of his residence at the Cape was short , it was most diligently employed , and sufficed for accumulating a mass of important observations , from which he afterwards deduced results of great value to astronomy .
In August 1834 he was appointed , on the recommendation of the Royal Astronomical Society ( whose advice had been requested by the Secretary of State ) , to the Professorship of Practical Astronomy in the University of Edinburgh , with which office was conjoined the superintendence of the Edin'burgh observatory , then taken under the protection of the Government .
This appointment he continued to hold till his death , which took place after a short illness , in consequence of an affection of the heart , on the 23rd of November 1844 , before he had quite completed his 46th year .
Professor Henderson 's reputation as an astronomer stood high ; he was a careful and accurate observer , an expert and resolute calculator , was profoundly skilled in the theory of instruments , and possessed great knowledge of methods , and an acquaintance with the history and literature of his science , which for extent and minute accuracy has rarely been surpassed .
The results of his labours were for the most part communicated to the Royal Astronomical Society , and have been printed in their Memoirs : they embrace a considerable range of subjects , but the most important perhaps , in point of permanent value , is his Catalogue of the Declinations and Right Ascensions of 172 principal Fixed Stars ( chiefly in the southern hemisphere ) , observed by himself and his assistant during his residence at the Cape ; and the most remarkable of the single results he obtained is a sensible parallax of the double star a Centauri , amounting to about one second of space : this result , which he first detected on a comparison of his reduced observations of declination , was partially confirmed by the subsequent reduction of the observations of the star 's right ascensions ; and it afterwards received from him a further confirmation by a discussion of the observations made by his successor Mr. Maclear , expressly with a view to the determination of the question .
Having regard to the history of this subject , it would perhaps be unsafe at present to affirm that he has done more than establish a strong probability in favour of the measureable parallax of this system ( already remarkable for its great proper motion ) ; but should further observations change the probability into a certainty , Mr. Henderson 's name will descend to posterity associated with a discovery which has so long been the desire of astronomers , and so often baffled their efforts .
His whole astronomical career was marked by an activity and energy which continued unabated to the last .
Nor were his labours confined to the routine of his official duties .
On more than one occasion he cheerfully undertook the heavy task of giving lectures for his colleagues in the University ; much of his time was consumed in the reduction of his Cape observations ; he superintended the reduction and arrangement of La Caille 's Catalogue for the British Association ; and if a comet was anywhere observed , he was always one of the first to compute and communicate its orbit .
In his private character Mr. Henderson was distinguished by great kindness of disposition , amiable manners , and warmth of affection ; he was an enthusiastic admirer of excellence of every kind , and a person on whose integrity , honour and high principles , every one who had the good fortune to enjoy his acquaintance felt that the most implicit confidence might be placed .
He was a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society and of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , and was elected into this Society on the 9th of April 1840 .
WILLIAM ALLEN was the son of Mr. Job Allen , a silk-manufacturer of Spitalfields , and was born in London on the 29th of August 1770 .
His father being of the Society of Friends , he was strictly educated in the principles of that religious community , of which he continued till his death an exemplary and distinguished member .
The early preference evinced by him for chemistry induced his father to place him in an establishment of high repute , of which , some years after , he became the proprietor .
But happily for suffering humanity , neither commercial gains nor the love of science itself could hold exclusive possession of his mind .
From an early period of his life he cooperated with Clarkson , Wilberforce and other philanthropists in their efforts for the abolition of the African slavetrade , which were happily at length successful .
Mr. Allen 's connexion with the schools of chemistry and natural philosophy in Guy 's Hospital commenced in 1803 , and continued till 1826 : Mr. Allen 's ability and fitness as a teacher of science were there amply attested .
In 1804 , Mr. Allen read his first course of lectures on natural philosophy in the Royal Institution .
The valuable researches on carbon , carbonic acid , and the changes effected in atmospheric air by respiration , made by Mr. Allen in conjunction with Mr. Pepys , are too well known to require remark .
The results are to be found in our Transactions for 1807 , 1808 , 1809 .
Mr. Allen was in 1807 admitted a Fellow of the Royal Society .
He also became a member of other scientific bodies of this country and of the continent .
It was , however , to other objects of public utility that the greater part of Mr. Allen 's life was devoted .
The education of the poor on christian principles , and the circulation of the holy scriptures , were among the first to which he directed his efforts ; and wherever he went the moral improvement of his fellow-creatures occupied his attention .
He was at all times ready to cooperate with the good of every creed whose aim was the happiness of mankind , and probably no man of his generation lived to see nobler fruits of his labours .
Having been one of the founders of the British and Foreign School Society , he was , in 1808 , elected its first treasurer , an office which he held until his death .
To this institution he liberally contributed not only his time , but also large pecuniary assistance .
At Lindfield , in Sussex , he expended large sums in building schlools of industry , and laboured assiduously by other plans for bettering the condition of the poor .
Among these the system of allotments of land found him a zealous patron .
In 1818-19 Mr. Allen visited Russia , where , in the reign of the Emperor Alexander , he , in conjunction with two friends , compiled a volume of scriptural selections , for the instruction of youth in the military and other schools of that empire .
Mr. Allen made several other journeys for benevolent objects to the continent , and he greatly exerted himself in behalf of the Greeks and of the Waldenses of Piedmont .
The source of Mr. Allen 's extraordinary influence was to be found in that singleness of purpose , which , breaking down the obstacles of party , gave him access to those in power , and carried him as by a royal road to the confidence and favour of princes .
At home we find him enjoying the marked consideration of their late Royal Highnesses the Dukes of Kent and Sussex , the former appointing him one of his executors ; and abroad he was in frequent communication with the Emperor Alexander .
Mr. Allen possessed in an uncommon degree the power of giving his mind to a great variety of subjects , and this , together with his activity , economy of time and early habits , enabled him to accomplish a prodigious amount of good .
His correspondence alone was a labour from which most men would have shrunk .
In addition to subscriptions and donations to public charities , the casual calls on Mr. Allen 's benevolence were very heavy ; he also gave cheerfully , and there are perhaps few great works which he did not at some period of his life assist .
The extent of Mr. Allen 's charity seems to have been widely known , for we find the Emperor Alexander urging it as a reason for his undertaking the supply of drugs for the Russian armies , an offer which he gratefully but firmly refused , and to his honour be it spoken , he resisted a temptation the value of which it would be difficult to estimate .
At the end of a long life he could say that he had never compromised his public usefulness for private interests .
During the last fourteen years of his active life , Mr. Allen had passed about half his time at Lindfield , diffusing happiness and doing good to those about him- .
The review of a well-spent life gave comfort to the evening of his days , and that gospel which had been his rule through life was his stay in death , sustaining his mind in serenity and peace .
He died at Lindfield on the 30th of December , 18413 , aged 73 .
The thanks of the Meeting were given to the President for his Address , with a request that he would allow it to be printed .
The Statutes relating to the election of Council and Officers having been read by the Secretary , and Joseph Smith and Samuel Solly , Esqs .
having , with the consent of the Society , been nominated Scrutators in examining the lists , the votes of the Fellows present were collected .
Dr. Roget , on the part of the Scrutators , reported the following Noblemen and Gentlemen as being duly elected Officers and Council for the ensuing year , viz. President.-The Marquis of Northampton .
Treasurer.--Sir John William Lubbock , Bart. , M.A. Secretaries .
Peter Mark Roget , M.D. ecretares Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. , M.A. Foreign Secretary.-John Frederic Daniell , Esq. , D.C.L. Other Members of the Council.-John Bostock , M.D. ; William Bowman , Esq. ; Isambard Kingdom Brunel , Esq , ; Rev. William Buckland , D.D. ; Sir William Burnett , M.D. , K.C.H. ; George Dollond , Esq. ; Very Rev. Dean of Ely ; Thomas Graham , Esq. , M.A. ; Roderick Impey Murchison , Esq. ; Richard Owen , Esq. ; Sir James Clark Ross , Capt. R.N. ; John Forbes Royle , M.D. ; William Sharpey , M.D. ; John Taylor , Esq. ; Rev. Robert Walker , M.A. ; Lord Wrottesley .
The thanks of the Meeting were given to the Scrutators for their trouble in examining the lists .
The following is the statement of the Receipts and Payments of the Society during the preceding year , which was laid on the table by the Treasurer : Statement of the Receipts and Payments of the Royal Society between Vov .
29 , 1843 , and Nov. 29 , 1844 .
RECEIPTS. . ?
s. d. Balance in the hands of the Treasurer at the last Audit. .
1994 71 23 Weekly Contributions , at one shilling ... .
59 16 0 236 Quarterly Contributions at ?
1 ... ... ... .
966 00 1025 16 0 19 Admission Fees ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 190 001 Composition for Annual Payments at ?
40 ... ... ... .
40 005 Compositions for Annual Payments at ?
60 ... ... ... .
300 00 J. Stevenson , Esq. , for Donation Fund ... ... ... ... . .
10 10 0 One year 's rent of lands at Acton : due at Michaelmas 1844 ... ... ... ... ... .
70 00 New land marks ... . .
25 30 2 ?
years ' Income Tax ... ... . .
521 30 5 1 ... .._ 39 14 11 One-fifth of the clear rent of an estate at Lambeth Hill , from the Royal College of Physicians , in pursuance of Lady Sadleir 's will : due at Midsummer 1844 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
300 Dividends on Stock : One year 's dividend on ?
14,000 Reduced 3 per cent. Annuities ... ... ... ... ... ... .
420 00 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
12 5 0 ... . .
407 15 0 Half year 's dividend on ?
1000 3 per cent. Consols ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
15 00 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
089 14 11 3 Carried forward ... ... ... ... . .
4025 14 3 ?
, s. d. ?
s. d. Brought forward ... ... ... ... . .
4025 14 3 O.ie year 's dividend on 34521l .
Is .
id. Consols , the produce of the sale of the premises ill Coleman-street ... ... ... ... ... ... 103 11 2 Less Income Tax ... . .
30 4 ... ... .100 10 10 One year 's dividlend on ?
200 Consols ... 600 Less Incoie lax ... ... ... .
0365 16 6 Donation Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
4843 14s .
7d ... . .
145 62 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
44 10 141 14 Rumford Fund .
One year 's dividend on 2292/ .
1 Is .
7d .
Consols 68 15 6 Less Income Tax ... ... ... .
200 66 15 6 Fairchild Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
100 New South Sea Annuities ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
300 Sir Clifton Wintringham 's Bequest .
One year 's dividend on ?
1200 Consols ... .
36 00 Less Income ax ... ... ... .
110 34 19 0 Miscellaneous Receipts : Sale of Philosophical ''ransactions , AbstraCts of Papers , and Catalogues of the Royal Society 's Library ... ... .
226 09 Total Receipts ... ... 4603 18 2 PAYMENTS . ?
s. d. Fairchild Lecture.-The Rev. J. J. Ellis , for delivering the Fairchild Lecture for 1844 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 300 Bakerian Lecture.-Richard Owen , Esq. , for the Bakerian Lecture for 1844 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
40 Books purchased : ?
s. d. Dulau and Co. : for Books ... ... ... .
13 03 Bailliere : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... 21 86 Nutt : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
476 Taylor : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
3 12 0 Maynard : for ditto ... ... ... ... ... ... 440 46 12 3 Carried forward ... ... ... ... 53 12 3 ?
s. d. ?
s. d , Brought forward ... ... ... ... . .
53 12 3 Salaries : Dr. Roget , one year , as Secretary ... ... .
105 00 S. II .
Christie , Esq. , one year , as Secretary. .
105 00 Ditto for Index to Phil. Trans ... ... ... . .
50 John F. Daniell , Esq. , one year , as For .
Sec. 20 00 Charles R. Weld , Esq. , one year , as AssistantSecretary and Librarian ... ... ... ... .
200 00 Mr. White , half a year , as Attendant ... ... 40 00 G. Holtzer , one year , as Porter ... ... ... .
30 00 Ditto , for extra Porterage ... ... ... ... . .
10 0 0 .
515 50 Purchase of ?
1000 3 per cent. Consols ... ... ... ... ... .
972 10 0 Fire Insurance , on the Society 's Property ... ... ... ... . .
45 16 Mrs. Coppard : Gratuity ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 10 00 Mr. Shuckard : Gratuity ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
25 00 Clerks : Christmas Fee ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
110 Bills : Taylor : Printing the Phil. Trans. , 1843 , part 2. .
177 16 6 Ditto , 1844 , part I ... ... ... ... ... . .
53 11 0 Ditto , Proceedings , Nos. 55-57 ; Circulars , Lists of Fellows , Ballot-lists , State-ment of Payments , and Minutes of Council ; &amp;c. &amp;c. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 84 96 315 17 0 Bowles and Gardiner : For Paper for the Phil. Trans. , 1813 , part 2 , 76 16 0 and 1844 , part 1 ... ... ... ... . .
29 80 -106 40 Basire : For Engraving and Copper-plate printing for Phil. Trans. , 1844 , parts 1 and c , &amp;c. ... ... ... .
124 14 4 Gyde : Boarding and Sewing 800 Parts of Phil. Trans. , 1843 , part 2 ... ... ... ... 27 68 Ditto , 1844 , part 1 ... ... ... ... ... .
28 34 55 10 0 Executors of T. R. Robinson : For Magnetometer ... ... ... ... ... . .
26 50 Tuckett : Bookbinding ... ... ... ... ... . .
32 15 4 Pouncey and Sons : For Stationery ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 210 9 Saunderson : For Shipping Expenses ... ... ... ... ... .
10 17 9 Carried forward ... .
72 8 10 2224 15 1 s.d. ? .
d. Brought forward ... 72 8 10 2224 15 1 Brecknell and Turner : Candles , and Lamp Oil ... ... ... ... ... .
11 16 Arnold : For Coals ... ... ... ... ... ... 23 40 Ditto ( Porter 's yearly allowance ) ... ... . .
470 Edis : For making Cupboard ... ... .
3 14 0 Shoolbred : Fo or Moeen ... ... ... ... ... ... .
341 Tress : For Map ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
330 Gwillim : Mats , Brushes , Fire-wood , &amp;c. ... ... ... .
4 18 7 Snell : For Carpets an( Repairs ... ... ... ... .
57 6 Cubitt : For repairs and relaying Carpets , &amp;c. ... ... 21 13 5 Luck , Kent and Co. : Carpets ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
27 35 Mr. C. Gyde : For Services as Clerk ... ... ... ... 900 241 43 Law Expenses : Proportion of Costs for Defending Mablethorpe Tithe Suit ... ... ... ... ... ... 83 9 10 Proportion of Expenses for Commutation of 'lithes at Acton ... ... ... ... ... . .
7 17 6 - ... 91 74 Taxes and Parish Rates : Land and Assessed Taxes ... ... ... .
21 14 2 Income Tax ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4 19 2 26 13 4 Petty Charges : Charwoemand ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2 12 Postage and Carriage ... ... ... ... ... ... 13 5.1 Expenses on Foreign Packets , &amp;c. ... ... 11 8 10 Stamps ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0 19 0 Charwoman 's Wages ... ... ... ... 25 14 6 Ditto , Extra work ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
200 Miscellaneous expenses ... ... ... .
23 57 76 13 0 Balance in the hands of the Treasurer ... ... ... ... ... 1940 12 8 Total ... . ? ?
4603 18 2 _- ... .P S~ , -~.t~-_ .
November 29th , 1844 .
JOIN W. LUBBOCK , Treas .
BRITISH MUSEUM FUND .
Dr. Cr .
1839 .
1839 .
Dec. 1 .
To Balance. .
203 14 4 Dec. 1 .
By Books ... .
38 26 By Balance .
165 11 10 ?
203 14 4 ?
203 14 4 1840 .
1840 .
Dec. 1 .
To Balance , .
165 11 10 Dec. 1 .
By Books ... .
111 16 By Balance. .
'54 10 4 ?
165 11 10 ?
165 11 10 1841 .
1841 .
Dec. 1 .
To Balance. .
54 10 4 Dec. 1 .
By Books ... .
54 10 4 The Balances in hand , now belonging to the several trusts , are as under : viz. ?
s. d. Donation Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 172 17 3 Rumford Fund ... ... ... 133 11 0 The following table shows the progress and present state of the Society with respect to the number of Fellows : Patron I-Having Paying Paying and Foreign .
cor ?
2 12s . ?
4 Total .
Honorary .
|pounded .
Annually .
Annually .
November 1843 , .
12 49 521 23 226 831 Since elected ... ... . .
++ 14 +20 Since compounded ... ... 1 ... ... 1 Defaulters ... ... ... ... ... -1 1 Since deceased ... .
-20 15 -26 November 1844 ... .
13 49 507 22 233 824 WVeekly and Quarterly Contributions .
1830 ... ... ... ... . . ?
363 40 1838 ... . . ?
599 40 1831 ... ... ... ... . .
286 00 1839 ... ... ... ... . .
66616 0 1832 ... ... ... ... . .
255 60 1840 ... ... ... ... . .
767 40 1833 ... ... ... ... . .
283 76 1841 ... ... . .
81512 0 1834 ... ... ... ... . .
318 18 6 1842 ... ... ... ... . .
910 80 1835 ... ... ... ... . .
34612 6 1843 ... ... ... ... .
93316 0 1836 ... ... ... ... . .
495 00 1844 ... ... ... ... . .
1025 16 0 1837 ... ... ... ... . .
531 0 0

