Crystal Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
327 the ionisation chamber I. After correcting the observed values of the ionisation currents for the variations of the absorption coefficients of the Rontgen rays with v , it comes out that E ( per unit cathode ray current ) is nearly proportional to vC ' In a subsequent paper , a discussion will be given of the results here described with regard to their bearing upon theories of the method of transference of energy from the cathode ray to the X-ray .
It gives me great pleasure to acknowledge the kindly attitude which Sir J. J. Thomson has continued to assume towards this work .
The Relation betiveen the Crystal Symmetry of the Simpler Organic Compounds and their Molecular Constitution.\#151 ; Part II .
By Walter Wahl , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Sir James Dewar , F.R.S. Received June 19 , \#151 ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) In this paper the experimental results concerning the crystalline properties of the unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbons , the simpler oxygen- and sulphur-compounds of carbon , the halogen-compounds , and the simpler aromatic hydrocarbons are given .
Ethylene.\#151 ; Ethylene , prepared from alcohol and sulphuric acid , was purified by liquefying it and distilling it twice .
It crystallises very well , large prisms being formed .
Two distinct cleavage systems occur , one parallel to a prism and the other parallel to the basal plane ( or an orthodome ) .
The .doublerefraction is of middle strength ; the extinction is in some sections parallel to the prismatic cleavage , in others it is not .
The angle of the optical axes is large , and the optical character negative .
These optical observations show that ethylene crystallises in the monoclinic crystal system .
Acetylene.\#151 ; Acetylene which had been prepared from calcium carbide was purified by passing it through a solution of chromic acid in acetic acid , and by subsequently solidifying it by cooling with liquid air .
The temperature of the solid mass was then allowed to rise until it began to evaporate , and the first and last portions to evaporate were pumped away , the middle portion only being collected .
These operations were repeated twice .
Dr. W. Wahl .
Relation between Acetylene cannot be liquefied at ordinary pressure , but is condensed directly in the solid state .
If condensed at not too low a temperature , it forms small isotropic crystals , which consist of cubes , the corners of which are cut off by the octahedron .
On further cooling , a transition occurs , and the small crystals become strongly double-refracting .
This transition takes place very readily and is reversible .
If the gas is condensed by rapidly cooling the crystallisation vessel with liquid air , it is condensed directly into the double-refracting modification .
This then grows in the shape of small prismatic crystals which exhibit a parallel extinction .
This second form of acetylene is therefore tetragonal , hexagonal or rhombic .
At certain temperatures both modifications are seen to form simultaneously , and the one subsequently changes rapidly into the other according as the temperature is above or below that of the transition point .
Carbon Monoxide.\#151 ; Carbon monoxide was prepared by heating a mixture of sodium formate and sulphuric acid and passing the gas through caustic potash solution .
It was then purified by condensation and fractionating .
Carbon monoxide crystallises in the regular crystal system .
The manner of growth indicates that the prevailing form is that of the rhombic dodecahedron .
Carbon Dioxide.\#151 ; Carbon dioxide has been investigated by Liversidge , * who found that it crystallises in the regular system .
Recently Behnken has described an elaborate apparatus which has been used for the investigation of carbon dioxide and some other gases.f According to the observations of Behnken carbonic acid is regular .
When pure , dry carbon dioxide is condensed in the crystallisation vessel by cooling with liquid air it condenses in the form of small cubes which are quite isotropic .
No polymorphic change was observed above \#151 ; 210 ' .
Carbon Oxychloride.\#151 ; A bottle containing a 20-per-cent , solution of phosgene in toluene ( Kahlbaum ) was connected with the condensation vessel of the apparatus used for fractionating the hydrocarbons and the other gases .
The whole apparatus was first exhausted and the condensation vessel then cooled in liquid air , and the stopcock separating the phosgene solution from the condensation vessel was then opened .
In this way sufficient phosgene was gradually pumped out of the solution and condensed in the crystallisation vessel .
It was then allowed to boil off and the higher boiling part collected over mercury .
On investigation in the crystallisation vessel , it was , however , found that the entire quantity of the liquefied gas did not crystallise simultaneously , but that small isotropic crystals were deposited on * A. Liversidge , 'Chem .
News , ' vol. 71 , p. 152 ; vol. 77 , p. 216 .
t H. E. Behnken , ' Phys. Kev .
, ' 1912 , vol. 35 , p. 66 .
Crystal Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
329 the walls of the crystallisation vessel at a much higher temperature than that at which the principal part crystallised .
These crystals apparently belonged to carbon dioxide , and the presence of hydrochloric acid gas was , therefore , also probable , the two being the products of the action of moisture on phosgene .
It seems that these admixtures are not sufficiently removed by condensation .
The gas was , therefore , admitted to a previously evacuated glass bulb containing a small quantity of metallic sodium , and allowed to remain over this for some time .
After this treatment the phosgene was found to crystallise homogeneously .
Phosgene is liquid over a considerable range of temperature .
On cooling it becomes supercooled , and an unstable modification crystallises , as a rule , out of the supercooled melt .
If cooled rapidly , the growth of this modification may be entirely arrested and the remainder of the melt becomes quite viscous .
If the preparation is allowed to get warmer after the unstable modification has been formed a transition into the stable form very soon takes place .
When this again is partially melted , it crystallises readily on cooling .
The stable modification possesses a high double-refraction , but isotropic sections occur also .
It belongs , therefore , either to the tetragonal or hexagonal system , but it has not been possible to determine to which of the two , as the cleavage is not very distinct .
The optical character of the stable modification is positive .
The unstable modification possesses an extremely high double-refraction and shows parallel extinction .
It is probably orthorhombic .
Carbon Oxysulphide.\#151 ; Carbon oxysulphide was prepared by the action of concentrated sulphuric acid on the allyl ether of isosulphocyanic acid .
The gas was purified by passing it through wash-bottles containing potassium hydroxide solution and concentrated sulphuric acid .
It was then liquefied , and , after a part had been allowed to boil off , a fraction was collected for investigation .
Carbon oxysulphide crystallises in extremely fine needles , which grow with great rapidity .
The double-refraction of these needles is very high and they always extinguish the polarised light in the position parallel to the principal sections of the nicols .
The needles are thus either tetragonal , hexagonal or orthorhombic , but it has not been possible to find any experimental evidence from which conclusions might be drawn as to which of these crystal systems the oxysulphide belongs to .
No polymorphic change has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Carbon Bisulphide.\#151 ; Carbon bisulphide crystallises in very strongly double-refracting needles which belong to the monoclinic or triclinic system.* Methyl Chloride.\#151 ; Methyl chloride was prepared by heating trimethylamine * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 87 , p. 379 .
VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; A. Dr. W. Wahl .
Relation between hydrochloride .
The gas was purified by fractionating it .
Methyl chloride crystallises from the supercooled melt in form of a fine grainy mass .
If part of this is melted and recrystallised , long needles , rapidly growing in several directions , are formed .
They are very strongly double-refracting and show parallel extinction .
On further cooling a marked cleavage in the longitudinal direction of the needles is developed , but no polymorphic change has been observed at temperatures above \#151 ; 200 ' .
As needles of parallel extinction are seen which exhibit a different strength of double-refraction they cannot belong to the tetragonal or hexagonal system , but are either orthorhombic or monoclinic with a very small angle of extinction on the clinopinakoid .
Dichlormethane.\#151 ; Methylene chloride crystallises well , long prisms being formed which seem to be terminated by a pair of domal faces .
The doublerefraction is strong and the extinction parallel to the prism axis .
This modification of dichlormethane is orthorhombic .
At low temperature it changes enantiotropically into a mass of needles of much lower doublerefraction .
Trichlormethane.\#151 ; Chloroform crystallises well .
Large crystal fields of strong double-refraction are mostly formed , but occasionally isotropic fields are developed .
In one instance one of these grew with a remarkably regular hexagonal outline .
Chloroform is thus trigonal or hexagonal .
No polymorphic change has been noticed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Tetrachlormethane.\#151 ; Carbon tetrachloride crystallises at \#151 ; 22 ' in isotropic grains , but when the temperature is lowered a transition into a double-refracting mass takes place at \#151 ; 47'.* Methyl Bromide.\#151 ; When cooled , methyl bromide , as a rule , becomes strongly supercooled , but at a very low temperature crystallisation takes place , the resulting product being a fine grainy mass , which shows " aggregate-polarisation .
" When the preparation is allowed to get warmer gradually , strongly double-refracting prisms of another modification grow slowly in the grainy mass , and at still higher temperature these change into a third modification which also grows in prismatic forms , but is not as strongly double-refracting as the second modification .
Very soon after this transition the crystals melt .
The second modification has also been obtained directly by crystallisation of the supercooled melt .
The transition between Form I and Form II takes place readily in both directions .
As stated , Form III on heating grows quite slowly in Form II , and if the preparation is again cooled when only part of III has changed into II , the further growth of II is arrested , but it does not change back into III .
This is probably due to a very * This transition has recently been described by V. M. Goldschmidt , 'Zeitschr .
f. Krystallographie , ' 1912 , vol. 51 , p. 26 .
Crystal Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
331 small velocity of transition , and to the falling- off of this velocity to almost negligible value on lowering the temperature , whereby , at low temperatures , a kind of pseudo-equilibrium between the Forms II and III results .
The modification I , which is stable at the melting-point , crystallises in the monoclinic crystal-form , and is sometimes twinned according to the orthodome .
The extinction angle between the two halves is in maximum only about 12 ' , which gives an extinction angle of about 6 ' on the clinopinakoid .
The modification II possesses , as already stated , a much stronger doublerefraction .
It is orthorhombic , or , possibly , monoclinic , with a quite small extinction angle .
Of modification III nothing more definite than that it is double-refracting can be said .
It has only been observed as a very fine grainy mass .
Methyl bromide is thus trimorphic .
Dibrom-methane.\#151 ; Methylene bromide crystallises readily in long prismatic needles which belong to the orthorhombic crystal system .
At a temperature close to \#151 ; 200 ' a polymorphic transition into another double-refracting modification takes place .
Bromoform.\#151 ; Bromoform becomes easily supercooled .
At temperatures not much below the melting-point the velocity of crystallisation is , however , considerable .
Remarkably enough , the crystals are simultaneously developed and grow in two different crystal directions ; partly as long narrow laths , and partly as large crystal fields ; the former possess a very strong double-refraction and parallel extinction , the latter are isotropic , but show in convergent light the cross of a uniaxial , optically negative crystal .
The lath-shaped needles are probably crystals which grow in the direction of a lateral crystal axis , and are developed with the basal plane at right angles to the walls of the crystallisation vessel ; the isotropic fields are crystals which grow with the basal plane parallel to the walls .
Thus bromoform crystallises in thin hexagonal tablets .
When the temperature is lowered , crystal germs of a second strongly double-refracting modification are formed in great number inside the first modification , but they grow very slowly , and w'hen the temperature is further lowered they entirely cease to grow .
Bromoform exhibits thus a case of pseudo-equilibrium between two crystal modifications at low temperature .
If the temperature is very suddenly lowered , it is therefore easily possible to cool down the first modification to \#151 ; 180 ' without any noticeable amount of the second modification being formed at all .
When the temperature is then allowed to rise , and the preparation reaches a temperature interval in which crystal-nuclei of the second modification are formed and the velocity of transition attains noticeable values , the crystals I are transformed into a grainy mass of the form II .
When a still higher Dr. W. Wahl .
between ' temperature is reached , Form II again changes into Form I , which , on further increase of temperature , melts .
In consequence of the passing over of one transition on rapidly cooling , and the pseudo-stability of Form I at low temperature , a change of one form into the other and the reverse change can thus take place without the sense in which the temperature is changing being reversed .
Tetrabrom-methane.\#151 ; Tetrabrom-methane crystallises in cubic growth-structures , which at +46 ' change into a monoclinic modification .
This latter is also obtained directly by crystallisation from ether , petrol-ether , and other solvents at room temperature .
It has been measured by Zirngiebl , * who found that it very closely approaches a regular octahedron , although it is monoclinic .
No further transition has been observed at temperatures'above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Methyl Iodide.\#151 ; Methyl iodide crystallises in long prismatic needles , some showing parallel extinction , and others showing an extinction angle up to about 25 ' .
They belong to the monoclinic system .
A twinning parallel to the orthodoma is also sometimes seen .
The cleavage , according to a prism , is well developed , and also a second cleavage , parallel to the basal plane or the orthodoma .
No polymorphic transition has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Methylene Iodide.\#151 ; The diagram of state of methylene iodide has been investigated by Tammann and Hollmann , f who describe the occurrence of four modifications .
According to their measurements at high pressures , the modification which at ordinary pressure crystallises out of the molten condition at +5*7 ' , changes at \#151 ; 6'5 ' into another modification .
This change is stated to be reversible .
On investigating methylene iodide in a similar way to the other substances described in this paper , it was found that the needle-shaped crystals which are formed out of the melt at ordinary pressure are orthorhombic .
No polymorphic change has been detected at a temperature slightly below zero , and the crystals remain unchanged down to very low temperature , although they become very cracked .
At about \#151 ; 200 ' an alteration in the crystallised product takes place .
It has , however , not been possible to make out whether this depends upon a polymorphic change , which proceeds very slowly , or whether it is due to the separating out from solid solution of some decomposition product of the methylene iodide .
The difficulty of arriving at a decision arises from the fact that methylene iodide changes under the action of light sufficiently quickly to exhibit a distinct coloration from dissolved * Compare Groth , * Chemische Krystallographie , ' vol. 1 , p. 230 .
t G. Tammann and R. Hollmann in ' Krystallisieren und Schmeltzen , ' Leipzic , 1903 p. 278 .
' Crystal Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
333 iodine after but a few minutes .
It is therefore , practically impossible to investigate the substance in a pure state .
Iodoform.\#151 ; Iodoform has been investigated cryStallographically by Ranmielsberg , Kokscharow , and Pope.* It crystallises in the hexagonal system in tablets , which are parallel to the basal plane .
Iodoform is partially decomposed when heated to the melting point , and it is therefore difficult to obtain good crystal-growth directly from the melt .
It was , however , found that it crystallises from the melt in a very similar way to bromoform , large isotropic fields and narrow double-refracting laths being formed .
This corresponds entirely to the growth in tablets which is obtained from solutions .
No polymorphic change takes place between the melting-point temperature and room temperature , but it seems that a change takes place in the crystals not far below room temperature .
However , since the iodoform is decomposed to a certain extent when melted , it has not yet been possible to make out with certainty whether it is a polymorphic change which takes place , or whether the change is due to the separating out of solid solution of some of the decomposition products .
Methane Tetraiodide.\#151 ; Methane tetraiodide crystallises , according to Gustavson , f in octahedra , which are isotropic in polarised light , and thus regular .
Mononitromethane.\#151 ; Nitromethane crystallises very readily , forming large crystal fields , which belong to the monoclinic system .
The doublerefraction is high .
The angle of the optic axes is large , and one of the axes shows a strong dispersion .
The optical character is positive .
On cooling further , a cleavage parallel to the prism , and a second , but less distinct , cleavage parallel to the basal plane , are formed .
No other modification has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Tetranitromethane.\#151 ; Tetranitromethane crystallises in the regular crystal system .
At low temperature an enantiotropic transition into another modification takes place .
The double-refraction of this modification exceeds in no sections 0-005 .
It is probably tetragonal or hexagonal .
Chloropicrin.\#151 ; Chloropicrin crystallises in the shape of long thin needles which possess a strong double-refraction and a parallel extinction .
It thus belongs to either the tetragonal , hexagonal , or orthorhombic systems , No other polymorphic modifications have been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Methyl Alcohol.\#151 ; Methyl alcohol is monoclinic or triclinic.t At low temperature a polymorphic transition takes place .
* See Groth , ' Chemisehe Krystallographie , ' vol. 3 , p. 4 .
t G. Gustavson , ' Ann. der Chemie , ' vol. 172 , p. 173 .
+ See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc A , vol. 87 , p. 379 .
Dr. W. Wahl .
Relation betiveen Ethyl Alcohol.\#151 ; Ethyl alcohol does not crystallise well .
It belongs to one of the crystal systems of low symmetry.* Tertiary Butyl Alcohol.\#151 ; The original sample of trimethylcarbinol prepared by Butlerow was examined crystallographically by Pousirewsky .f He states that the alcohol in the anhydrous state crystallises in the shape of six-sided prisms terminated by the basal plane .
The angle between the prism faces was roughly measured by Pousirewsky as being 120 ' , and the angle between the prism faces and the basal plane as being 90 ' .
This would indicate that the crystals belong to the hexagonal system .
Pousirewsky , however , found that the crystals are optically bi-axial , the axial plane being parallel to the basal plane .
He therefore considered trimethylcarbinol to be orthorhombic but pseudo-hexagonal .
The alcohol was investigated in the same way as the other substances described in this paper , and it was found that , when not quite anhydrous , it crystallises in the shape of needles which grow with great rapidity , when pure crystal fields are formed .
Some of them have been found to be isotropic .
At a temperature not far below that of the melting point , and several degrees above zero , a transition takes place into another modification which is very similar to the first one .
Both modifications possess a low maximum double-refraction .
No cleavage has been observed in the first modification , and in the case of the second the cleavage developed at quite low temperature is of an irregular character .
These observations , compared with those of Pousirewsky , show that trimethylcarbinol crystallises from the molten state in hexagonal crystals which already at a temperature above zero change into a very similar but orthorhombic modification without the outer shape of the crystals being changed .
Pousirewsky 's optical determinations were evidently made at a temperature below that of the transition point , whereby he was led to draw the conclusion that the carbinol was orthorhombic , pseudohexagonal and not really hexagonal .
Dimethyl Ether.\#151 ; Dimethyl ether was prepared by the interaction of methyl iodide on sodium methylate and the gas was purified by condensation and fractionation .
Dimethyl ether crystallises in long narrow prisms which show parallel extinction and possess a very low double-refraction .
The ether is rhombic .
No other modification has been obtained above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Methyl-ethyl Ether.\#151 ; The ether was prepared by the interaction of methyl iodide and sodium ethylate , and purified by condensation and fractionation .
Methyl-ethyl ether crystallises in prismatic columns of medium high double- * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 87 , p. 378 .
t Butlerow , ' Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 162 , p. 229 .
Crystal Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
335 refraction . .
These belong to the monoclinic or triclinic system .
No other polymorphic form has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Ethyl Ether.\#151 ; Timmermans* has recently found that two modifications of ethyl ether exist , a stable one melting at \#151 ; 116'2 ' and an unstable one melting at \#151 ; 123'3 ' .
The crystallisation of the stable modification has been described earlier , f It crystallises in the rhombic system .
If ether is very suddenly cooled , it becomes glassy , and when warmed the unstable modification usually crystallises in beautiful spheruliths showing the " Bertrand cross .
" This form is much less double-refracting than the stable form .
When the temperature rises further , crystal germs of the stable modification are formed ; it then grows rapidly inside the unstable modification , just as in the liquid phase .
It is remarkable that the growth of the stable form often starts at the centre of the spheruliths of the unstable form .
Acetone.\#151 ; Acetone crystallises in the monoclinio or triclinic system .
] ; No polymorphic transition has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Ortho-ethyl Ether of Carbonic Acid.\#151 ; When cooled by admitting liquid air to the vacuum-vessel surrounding the crystallisation-vessel the ortho-ethyl-ether of carbonic acid , as a rule , gets supercooled .
At a temperature between \#151 ; 180 ' and \#151 ; 200 ' the stiff liquid becomes glassy in character and cracks in quite a peculiar manner , giving rise to a product which is absolutely similar in appearance to the perlitic volcanic glasses .
If the exhaust on the liquid air is turned off and the preparation is allowed to warm gradually , the perlitic structure disappears as the glass of the ortho-ether warms .
If the stiff liquid is caused to crystallise by rubbing the wall of the vessel with a metal wire a very great number of crystal nuclei are formed , and grow very slowly .
The phenomenon has much the same appearance as when ammonium magnesium phosphate is precipitated from a solution by rubbing the walls of the vessel .
If the crystallisation vessel in which crystals have previously been formed is slowly cooled , a great number of isolated crystal nuclei appear ; these grow on further cooling into small growth-structures with sharp boundary lines .
They consist of small flat tetragonal bi-pyramids , the tops of which are cut off by the basal plane .
Other sections occur which have grown parallel to the basal plane , and have the appearance of square letter envelopes .
These sections are isotropic between crossed nicols .
As far as can be estimated under the microscope , the angles of these tetragonal bi-pyramids must be practically those of the regular octahedron .
The orthoether is thus tetragonal and pseudo-regular .
* J. Timmermans , 'Bull .
Soc. Chim .
Belgique , ' 1911 , vol. 25 , p. 300 .
t ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 87 , p. 378 .
+ See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 87 , p. 379 .
Dr. W. Wahl .
Relation between On further cooling the liquid gets quite viscous , and the small octahedra entirely cease to grow , the liquid ultimately becoming a perlitic glass , in which the " porphyric " octahedral crystals lie embedded .
This product is very similar to the volcanic glasses containing porphyric felspars and quartz .
When this product is allowed to warm gradually the perlitic cracks in the glass at first disappear , and then a devitrification of the glass takes place .
Hereby an immense number of very minute grains are formed , which are so small that they are scarcely distinguishable from one another , and appear as a crystallised " ground mass " merely by their action on polarised light .
At higher temperatures the size of these grains gradually increases at the expense of their number , and the product finally , before melting , consists of the original , unaltered porphyric growth-structures embedded in a porphyric , " hypidiomorphic " grainy mass .
If , again , the melt in which porphyric growth-structures have already been formed is cooled very slowly during the time the crystal-germs are forming and able to grow , it is possible to obtain a product consisting entirely of the crystal growth-structures .
These crystallisation and devitrification phenomena have been described here in detail , because the resulting products are almost identical in appearance with some of the volcanic rocks rich in silica , the genesis of the structure of which has been the subject of much discussion .
Trimethylene.\#151 ; Trimethylene was prepared from trimethylene bromide in the manner described by Gustavson.* The gas was purified by passing it through bromine and subsequently condensing it and fractionating it .
Trimethylene crystallises very readily , forming large crystal fields .
On cooling further two cleavage systems are developed : the one is parallel to the planes of a rhombohedron , the other is parallel to the basal plane .
The extinction is parallel to the basal cleavage and bisects the angle of the other cleavage system .
The strength of the double-refraction is very different in different crystal directions .
The maximum double-refraction , which is about 0'012 , is shown by those sections in which the basal cleavage is most distinctly developed .
Certain sections are nearly isotropic , but exhibit a kind of undulatory extinction , and on rotating the nicols in some cases faint bluish and yellowish tints are seen , instead of a definite extinction .
An investigation of such crystal fields in convergent light shows that trimethylene is practically uniaxial , but optically anomalous .
The dispersion phenomena as seen in convergent light indicate that the interference figure is in reality that of a bi-axial crystal with an extremely small axial angle , the axial angles for red and for blue light standing at right angles to each other , as in the case of some Sanidines and in Brookite , * Gustavson , ' Journ. Prakt .
Chemie , ' vol. 36 , ( 2 ) , p. 300 .
Crystal Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
337 and as is also sometimes seen in optically uniaxial substances which exhibit \#166 ; " optical anomalies .
" It seems that the extent to which these anomalies in trimethylene are developed depends to a certain degree upon the rapidity with which the cooling takes place ; it has , however , not been possible to find a crystal field showing a normal uniaxial interference figure .
No other polymorphic modification has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
The conclusion to be drawn from these optical properties with regard to the crystal system of trimethylene is , either that it crystallises in the trigonal system but is optically anomalous , or that it crystallises in the orthorhombic system and is pseudo-trigonal .
The principal cleavage system must be interpreted as being parallel to the planes of a flat rhombohedron , but the crystals grow in the direction of the horizontal axes , and a second cleavage system parallel to the basal plane is also developed .
Judging from the cleavage we thus arrive at the conclusion that the hydrocarbon is trigonal but optically anomalous , and not orthorhombic and pseudo-trigonal ; but a quite definite proof in favour of the one or the other alternative cannot be given .
Hexamethylene.\#151 ; If rapidly cooled hexamethylene becomes a cracked glass .
Slowly cooled it can be brought to crystallise , and once crystallised it crystallises readily .
It grows in large dendrites , forming cubic gratings .
The crystal fields are absolutely isotropic .
At low temperature this cubic modification changes enantiotropically into a double-refracting modification , which grows in a peculiar way in large patches inside the cubic modification , without the general structure due to the crystallisation forms of the original cubic modification being in any way interfered with .
The maximum double-refraction of this second form is about 0'012 .
Methyl-hexametliylene.\#151 ; Methyl-cyclohexane becomes invariably glassy on -cooling , but if the wall of the crystallisation vessel is rubbed with a metal wire before the cooled liquid has become very viscous , crystallisation can be brought about .
Very slowly growing spheruliths are then developed .
If the once crystallised mass is melted in part and recrystallised by again cooling the preparation , monoclinic prisms are formed .
The cleavage is parallel to the prism and to the basal plane , the angle between the orthopinakoid and the basal plane being about 75 ' .
The extinction angle on the clinopinakoid is about 15-20 ' .
The crystals are .often simple twins according to the orthopinakoid , and each half is poly-synthetically twinned according to the basal plane , giving rise to a " herringbone structure , " similar to that of the pyroxenes in the diabasic rocks of the great Whin Sill .
No other polymorphic form has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' , 338 Dr. W. Wahl .
Relation between Benzene.\#151 ; Benzene has been investigated crystallographically by v. Groth * It crystallises in the orthorhombic system .
Benzene was examined as to the possible occurrence of other polymorphic modifications , but no transition into some other form could be detected above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Also no " monotropic " unstable modifications have been observed .
Toluene.\#151 ; Toluene crystallises in a very similar way to benzene .
It is orthorhombic , and no further modifications have been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Para-xylene.\#151 ; Para-xylene has been investigated crystallographically by Jannasch.f It is monoclinic .
No other polymorphic modification has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Mesitylene.\#151 ; From the moderately supercooled melt glass-spherulites and small strongly double-refracting needles are formed .
After the preparation has been caused partially to melt the recrystallisation takes place with great velocity , prismatic crystals of high double-refraction and parallel extinction being formed .
On further cooling a very distinct prismatic cleavage and a perhaps still better developed cleavage parallel to the basal plane are formed , but no polymorphic transition has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
If the liquid , however , is strongly supercooled before crystallisation sets in , a second unstable modification of very strong double-refraction is formed .
This modification is also orthorhombic , and can be melted and recrystallised from the melt in the absence of the stable modification .
The unstable modification , however , passes slowly into the stable one , once this is formed , and grows just as crystals grow in a viscous liquid .
Both modifications of mesitylene are orthorhombic .
Hexametliyl-benzene.\#151 ; Hexamethy 1-benzene crystallises similarly to benzene in orthorhombic prisms of strong double-refraction .
No polymorphic transition has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' , nor any unstable modifications .
Hexachloro-benzene.\#151 ; Hexachloro-benzene also crystallises in orthorhombic prisms .
Biphenyl-methane.\#151 ; Diphenyl-methane crystallises in orthorhombic needles .
Tetraphenyl-methane.\#151 ; Tetraphenyl-methane crystallises from benzene-solution in the shape of needles . !
Through the kindness of Prof. Gomberg the author has had the opportunity of examining , in polarised light , the tetraphenyl-methane prepared by him .
The crystals which are formed on solidification from the molten state are identical in character with those crystallising out of solutions .
According to their optical properties they \gt ; * v. Groth , ' Jahresberichte d. Chemie , ' 1870 , p. 2 .
t P. Jannasch , 'Ann .
d. Chemie , ' vol. 171 , p. 79 .
+ A. Gomberg , ' Ber .
Deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
, ' 1897 , vol. 30 , p. 2043 ; and 1903 , vol. 36 , p. 1090 .
Crystal Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
339are orthorhombic .
oSTo other polymorphic modification has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Further Investigation of Trimethyl-methane.\#151 ; As it was not possible previously to obtain crystals other than such as had grown in one certain crystal direction , * the investigation of trimethyl-methane has been renewed several times , and fresh samples of the gas prepared and investigated in crystallisation vessels of different size and width .
After many vain attempts growths in several directions have been obtained by cooling very rapidly* and it has been established that the way in which the hydrocarbon crystallises is very similar to that of trimethylene , which has been described above .
Certain sections are practically dark between crossed nicols , but show in convergent light a cross which is opening slightly .
The dispersion phenomena are in this case not as pronounced as in the case of trimethylene .
The optical character of trimethyl-methane is negative .
Besides the cleavage which in the earlier stage of the investigation was regarded as being parallel to a prism , but is now considered as being parallel to the basal plane , a rhombohedral cleavage also occurs .
Trimetliyl-methane is thus either trigonal and optically anomalous , or rhombic , but pseudo-trigonal ; but more probably the former .
* See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 88 , p. 359 ,

