]\gt ; 1888 .
] Beat of the Mammalian Heart .
Plasticity of Ice .
III .
' On the Electromotive Cbanges connected with the Beat of the lIammalian Henrt , and of the Human Heart in parti\ldquo ; By D. VALLER , .
Communicated by Professor uRDON StNDERSON , F.R.S. Received Jume 12 , 1888 .
1 .
Description of experiments in the electrical variation connecbed the ] ) ncous beat is modified .
2 .
The normal variation is diphasic , and usually indicates ( 1 ) ivity of apex , ( 2 ) negabivity of .
Description of " " ular \ldquo ; variations .
4 .
Observations on nimals with one or both leading off electrodes applied to the body at a distance from the heart .
5 .
Determination of the electrical vatiations of the heart on man .
6 .
Tho variatio1l is diphasic , and indicates ( 1 ) negativity of apex , ( 2 ) ativity of base .
7 .
Distribution of cardiac potcntial in man and .
4 ' able\ldquo ; and " " unfavourable\ldquo ; tions .
8 .
Dcmonsfratio of electrical effects by leading off from the surface of the intact body by the various extremities and natural orifices .
9 .
Comparison effects observed on man with the normal and with a ) osed situation of the viscera .
IV .
" " On the of Glacier and other Ice By JAlIES fNLL , , Fellow of Clare College , idge , and DUDLEY A. ) .
Communicated ) B. T. BROOK , June 11 , 1888 .
The oxperiments described in loWing paper were undertaken in continuation of thoso made by Dr. Main in the winter 1886-87 , and described by him a paper read beforc the Royal Society the ving s. The investigation is by no means complete , but the esults 1 obtained seem to us sufficiently novel and important ' be worthy of being put ou , while we hope to * Dr. Main used the " " \ldquo ; Bnt this has been nlways applied in liquids to l1loleclar friction , and we have the ority of Sir .
Thonson Encycl .
itaun. .
: , p. for rescrving it for s. am propert solids Vlng plasticity\ldquo ; to denote continuons yielding under strcss .
'Roy .
Soc. ol .
42 , p. 329 . .
XLIV .
2 Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd .
[ June prosecute the subject further next winter .
We shall first give general account of our results , and then describe the experiments more full detail .
Main found that a bar of ice , which had been formed in a mould , yielded slowly but continuously to tension , though kept at a tempera .
some degrees below freezing point .
We began work under the impression that the rate of extension depended mainly on the temperature and tension , and that the chief difficulty lay in keeping the temperature constant .
Bnt by a happy chance our very first experiment showed us that not merely the rate , but even the very existence of the extension depended on the structure of the .
And this iS a matter which seems to have been quite disregarded previous experimenters .
After many , and for the most part unsuccessful , attempts to obtain a piece of perfectly ice , frozen in the mould used by Main , we took a bar cut from the clear ice formed on the surface of a bath of water , and froze its ends on to blocks of ice fitting the two conical collars through which the tension is applied .
To avoid any question as to the ice giving way in the collars , where it is subjected to pressure as well as tension\mdash ; the bar was pierced near either end by a steel needle firmly frozen in , and the measurements were taken between the projecting ends of these needles .
We found to our astonishment that the stretching was almost nil , though the tension was decidedly greater than that usually applied by Main .
There was a slight extension at first , but during the last five days the extension observed was at the mean rate of only mm. per hour per length of 10 cm .
, and this may well be attributed to the rise of temperature which took place .
The rigidity caunot have been to the cold , for during the last 24 hours the temperature was between and After the experiment , the ice was amined under the polariscope , and found to be a single regular crystal showing the coloured rings and black cross very well .
The optic axis was at right angles to the ]ength of the bar .
This experiment showed it was a very necessary precaution to take the measurements between needles fixed in the bar itseIf .
For whether the bar extended or not , the movement of the index ( fig. 2 ) , showed mould produced a round bar of ice 24 cm .
in length and cm .
in diameter , with a conical expansion at the lower end to Iit into an iron collar , through which the tension could be applied .
The other end of the bar was frozen on to ice filling a similar collar B. Ihese iron collars were faced with refully worked brass plates , and Main determined the extension by measuring tho distanco between the plates with callipers.\mdash ; July 6 , 1888 .
See Heim , ' Handbuoh der Gletscherkunde , ' published by Engelhorn , 1885 , p. 315 .
use the centigrade scale of temperature throughout .
1888 .
] On the of ( ilacier and other Ice .
a decided separation of the collars due to the plasticity of the conical pieces of ice therein .
next took a bar of ice formed in the mould , applied tension and took measurements in the same way .
The extension was at the rate of mm. per hour per length of 10 cm .
The crystallins structure of this ice was highly irregular .
As one principal object of our experiments lay in their application to the theory of glaciers , it had now become obviously most to test actual glacier ice .
We therefore drove over to the glacier , which is now readily accessible from St. Moritz even in the winter , and obtained some specimens from the natural ice caves at the foot of the g.lacier .
We tested pieces , which were quite sufficient to disprove ths common notions , that glacier ice is only plastic under pressure , not under tension , and that regelation is an essentia ] of the process .
They showed at the same time the extra , ] of the phenomenon .
The first extended a rate of from mm. to mm. per hour per length of 10 cm .
, the tions in speed being attributable to temperature .
The second piece at a rate of mm. and gradually slowed down till it reacbed at the same temperature a rate of mm. , at which point ib remained tolerably constant , except for temperature variations , till a greater tension was applied .
The third piece on the contrary began at the rate of mm. , increased its speed with greater tension to mm. , and stretched faster and faster with unaltered tension , till it reached the extraordinary speed of mm. per hour per ]ength of 10 cm .
We put on a check by reducing the tension slightly , whereupon the speed fell at once to mm. and declined to mm. The lowest temperature reached during our experiments , except the intractable , was with this specimen .
During 12 hours with a maxllntlm temperaturs and a mean temperattll'O probably , the rate under the light tension of kilo .
per .
cm .
was mm. These three pieces were composed of a number of crystals varying in thickness from two or thrce millimetres up to thirty or eveu a hundred .
These crystals are the " " glacier grains\ldquo ; ( yletscherkorner ) , which play such a large in ture .
Glacier ice is a sort of conglomerate of these grains , differing , however , from a conglomel.ate proper in that there is no matrix , grains each other perfectly .
In the winter , at any rate , the ice on the sides of the glacie ] .
caves looks quite homogeneous .
But , when a piece is broken off and exposed to 's rays , the different becolne visible to the naked eye , being separated probably by thin films of water .
Though the optical structure of each grain is found under the polariscope to be perfectly uniform , the bounding surfaces arc utterly irregular , and are generally curved .
The optic axes too of Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd .
hbouring grains seem to be arranged quite at random .
Owing the structure being so complex , we failed to txace any relation between the arrangement of the crystals and the rapidity of extension .
It is that the most rigid piece of the three was composed of small crystals , while the most plastic contained one very large crystal ; but this was perhaps accidental .
Fortunately , we were able to obtain ice of a more regular structure , which has already thrown a little light on the action at the intelfaces of the crystals , and oifers an attractive field to further investigation .
Some of the ice of the St. Moritz lake is built up of vertical columns , a centimetre downwards in diameter , and in length equal to the thickness of the clear ice , i.e. , a foot or more .
A horizontal section , exposed to the sun for a few minutes , shows the irregular mosaic pattern of the divisions between the columns .
The thickness of each column is not perfectly uniform .
Sometimes indeed one thins out to a sharp point at the lower end .
Each oolumn is a singls crystal , and the optic axes are generally nearly horizontal .
Some experiments on freezing vater in a bath , lead us to attribute this cnrious structure .
to the first layer of ice having been formed rapidly , in air , for instance , below C. We found that if the first layer had been formed slowly , and was thsrefore homogeneous with the axis vertical , a very cold night would only increase the thickness of ice , while maintaining its regularity .
We applied tension to .
a bar of lake ice carefully cut parallel to he columns .
It stretched indeed , but excessively slowly .
During seven days it stretched at the rate of only mm. per hour per length of 10 cm .
, though at one time the temperature of the surroundin air went up above zero .
The tension was 2 kilos .
per sq .
cm .
This sligh extension may well be attributed to the tension not being exactly parallel to the interfaces of the columns .
This experiment corroborates our first result , that a single crystal will not stretch at right angles to its optic axis .
We next cut a bar ai about to th length of the columns , and the difference was very manifest .
During 80 hours under a tension of kilos .
per .
cm .
, it extended at rate of mm. per hour per length of 10 cm .
, nearly 40 times aa fast .
An icicle is an example of ice formed of very minute ularly arranged .
We found that an icicle under a tension kilos .
per sq .
cm .
stretched at the rate of mm. per hour length of 10 cm .
This is very slow , especially as the *This was the case in ull pieces obtained from one end of the lake , where were cutting ice for storage purposes , whether new ice or old .
In a part , which had frozen a few days earlier , further out from the shore , we found larger crystals with the axes nearly vertical but not quite parallel to each July 6 , 1888 .
1888 .
] On the Plasticity of Glacier and Ice .
was high , ging - C. , yet it is difficult to suggest any theoretical reason for an increase in the number of interfaces producing a decrease in tho sticity .
We tried further two experiments ou compression of ice , the pressure being pplied to three nearly ctlbic{l pieces at once .
Of pieces of glacior , under a pressure of kilos .
por .
cm .
, the of ction during ve dttys were espectively mm. , mm , , and mm. ) .
length of 10 cm .
These figures show that while the plasticiy Yal.ies enormously in diffel'ent specimens , the rate of distortion is of tho same order of magnitude , whether the force applied be a pull or a tIlrust .
The othel expcriment was on three pieces of lnke ice , ) ying the pressure in a ction P to the columns .
The contraction was scarcely perceptible .
Under pressure of kilos . .
cm .
, the mean rate of the three pieces four was mm. per hour per of 10 cm .
To fix the blocks of ice in position , found it necessary to cover their ends with paper frozcll on , the small conction observed may be ibuted to yielding of the films of ice with which the ) .
This view is by the that the whole of the contritction took lace in first 36 hours .
We ve now shown by dil.cctexperilnent that ice , consisting of an ) ular aggregtttion of crystals , exhibits plasticity , CSStlre 1 undcl tcnsion , at below the ( the cas of lension at ) to at mnch a uniform yield colltinuously eithel to tension when applied in a direction at right ngles to the optic axis .
We fully lended to test { crystal under tellsion { plied along the ( ptic axis ; but were unsuccessful in crystal longer in the airis thau cm .
, when decided fo be , with that lcn , th , a put a stop to further operations .
We ha vever , very litllo doubt that } stal would efuse to yield eithel or I lension in whatevcr direction they were appliod .
following secms conclnsive as .
as it goes .
We first assume the axiom thttt , if ystems of stresses produce each by itself continuons yielding , superposition of the two will likewise produce 110 uous yielding .
lvill probably be admitlud we add the proviso that , when nature of the resultallt s is found , their magnitude is to be reduced to bhe same value as that of the simple stresses which known to be inacve .
then a cube of ice , two of whoso fnces are dicula1 to the optic axis .
Apply tension to one of the other pairs of faces .
This according to our experiments no extension .
336 Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd .
[ June Of course we do not take into account the slight elastic yielding .
Apply an equal tension the other pair of faces which are parallel to the axis .
There is still no extension by the axiom .
Now it can hardly be supposed that an uniform hydrostatic pressure could produce continuous change of form .
Apply then a pressure of such magnitude as to neutralise the two tensions .
We have then remain .
ing only a pressure along the optic axis , producing no continuous yielding .
In a similar way it may be shown that tension along the optic axis would produce no continuous yielding .
It is true that the reasoning cannot be extended to pressures and tensions oblique to the optic axis .
But if the plasticity observed had been due to the majority of crystals extending , while a certain number remained unchanged , there would surely have been numerous cracks found in every case ; while as a matter of fact such cracks were only found in two cases , and then they were very slight .
Hence , while we think it desirable to experiment further in the matter , we feel tolerably confident that single crystals of ics are not plastic , and we attribute the apparent plasticity of glacier ice to some action at the interfaces of the crystals .
But we are not at present inclined to venture any opinion as to the nature of this action .
The variation of plasticity with the temperature is of great interest both for the theory of glaciers and for the explanation of the plasticity itself , it is so difficult to disentangle the temperature variations proper from the much larger altelations due to structural changes , that our experiments throw very little light on this point .
In the case of the ice in Experiment 7 the rate seems to have become tolerably constant except for temperature changes .
While at the rate was , two days before and two days afterwards it was about at , and a few days earlier at .
In the icicle , when the temperature variations seemed paramount , the rate at was , and at .
This is a much smaller change than we should have expected .
In the case of compression the influence of temperature seems more strongly marked .
In all pieces the rate rose at to about ten times its value at .
An increase which takes place in three pieces simultaneously can hardly be to structural changes independent of the temperature .
The change in the rate of extension , produced by an of the tension , was in every case altogeliher out of proportion to the magnitude of the latter .
In the following table are collected all the instances which occurred:\mdash ; 1888 .
] On the Plasticity of Glacier and other Ice .
It will be interesting to make some ical comparison between the figures we have given and the plasticity actnally observed in the motion of glaciers .
Perhaps the most striking proof of the existence of is the great increase of vslocity from the side to the centre of a glacier .
number of measuremonts on this point have been collected by Heim Gletscllcrkunde , .
The most rapid increase he mentions mong the glaciers of the Alps is on the Rhone glacier , on a line } metres above the top of iccfall .
At netres f the westel.n bank the me yenrly lllotion , 1874 to 1880 , metres ; at metres the baIlk it was mebrcs .
his gives an of volocity in each metre across the glacier of metre per hour .
Let us consider what rate of extcnsion this involves .
Let AB ( fig. 1 ) ] ) on a moving in directions , of which is stcr .
In the Hmall tinle ( whose square we may let move to and to .
Draw AN , perpendicular to luced .
AN , BN , AB , and let velocities bc Then ot , . .
, Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd .
[ June and ; so ot .
( 1 .
) The expression is a maximum when , and then we have by ( 1 ) . . . . . . . . .
( 2 .
) When is very small , the ratio of to is the rate of increase of the distance between A and B. So , if we take any two points of the glacier at unit distance , the rate of increase of the distance between them will be greatest when the line joining them is at to the direction of motion , and this maximum value ] ] be equal to one half the difference of the velocities of two points situated abreast of each other and also at unit distance .
Thus the maximum rate of extension in the case we have taken on the Rhone glacier is mm. per hour per length of 10 cm .
This , be it remembered , is the most rapid extension selected from a large number of measurements on different ] aciers and at different times , and yet only one of the three .ecimens of glacier ice showed a rate less than this , and that was under one-third of the breaking tension .
The larger the specimen , the greater average plasticity would dis- play ; for the addition of a small piecs like our second specimen , for instance , would suffico to make a long rigid bar appear very plastic .
Hence the glacier itself ] be ' more plastic than most small specimens taken at random from its mass .
It would seem , therefore , that neither the presence .e of crevasses nor a thawing temperature are essential conditions of the motion of a glacier .
But that crevasses are found is not surprising , when we ider the rotten state of the ice during the summer and the certainty that a crack , however small , once formed will continue as long as the tension exists .
We belie further that the stresses in a glacier by weight are comparable with those employed in our experiments .
Description of Apparatus .
We had two sets of apparatus in operation .
first was that employed by Dr. Main , figured and fully described in his paper .
We reproduce his figure unaltered , though we made a few alterations the surrounding boxes .
As we expected at first that our chief difficulty wouId be keeping the temperature constant , we made special arrangements for ercoming this .
To secure a large heat capacity Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd .
[ June 21 , wood shavings , except between and M. Here a wooden partition was inserbed to the left of the vertical connecting rod .
The space between and was filled with wood shavings .
To allow the lever to move freeIy , it passed through a wooden tube loosely packed with cotton-wool .
The outer space between and was made fairly air-tight , and the opening through which the lower lever emerged was also plugged with cotton-wool .
The capacity of the inner chamber was about 60 litres , while the two tins contained about 25 ]itres of solution .
The innei chamber was thus jacketed on all sides with a layer , from to 20 cm .
in thickness , of which from 4 to 6 cm .
was solid wood and the rest wood shavings .
To secure uniformity*of temperature the back of the inner chamber was lined with thick sheet-copper .
Originally the front was similarly provided , a small aperture being cut for the cathetometer readings .
Bnt ffier the first experiment this was found very inconvenient and was discarded .
Access to the box was obtained from the front , the space between the doors of the two boxes being filled with a movable pad stuffed with shavings .
The inner door occupied about half the front of the ice-chamber .
With these angements the temperature of the interior altered very slowly , often not more than a degree in 24 hours , though no special precautions were taken to keep the temperature of the room constant .
We not so successful in maintaining uniformity of temperature .
The minimum thermometer was hung at the back of the chamber on a level with the middle of the ice .
The maximum was placed with its bulb at the bottom of the chamber at the end removed from the tin .
And we often found that the temperature at the time , sbown by the maximum thermometer , was one or one and a half degrees lower than that shown by the minimum .
In the temperatures given in the tables allowance is made for this .
We found , however , that the variations in the plasticity due to the temperature were far exceed .
by others , due probably to changes in the crystalline structure of the ice .
In explanation of the considerable variation of temperature occasionally recorded in the tables , we must add that , in order to raise or lower the temperature , the inner chamber was sometimes left wholly or partially open .
The front of the box was close by an open window , and was generally exposed to a decidedly lower temperature than the back , so that ) ening the doors to take the readings would seldom raise the internal temperature materially .
The bar of ice for an experiment was roughly sawn out and then shaped more carefully with a knife .
A hole was bored near each end with a hot steel knitting needle .
This was found to be the only method of making a hole free from the risk of splitting the ice .
In each hole was frozen a short piece of steel knitting needy with *Uniformity refers to space , constancy to time .
1888 .
] On the Plasticity of Glacier and other Ice .
ends projecting slightly .
In the later experiments we used pieces of glass tube or rod for needles , to obviate any possible tion of the lsion through the needle in the ice .
The glass had the furthcr advantage of beincro a bad conductor of heat .
We found that , when air freezing point entered the chamber during the taking of a reading , the steel needlcs were apt to work loose , the body of the ice had not time to materially rise in tenlperature .
Such are of course discarded .
The two conical collars were filled with ice by water therein .
The uppe ] collar was taken out and rted , and its brass plate levelled .
Then the bar was aced in a vertical position and on .
The was next osition in the chamber and frozen on to ice ou the lower collnr In experiment the measurement of the distance between the .
and lower needles was made with a cathetometer .
On the two ends of needle were glued pieces of , on of fine ink cross lines had been drawn .
The cathetometer was not of construction and merits a short description , as , though in practicc it was 1lot very successful , in principle it , wo belicve , several advantages over dinary form .
The } consisLs of a rod supported hree levelliug screws .
On this rod slides a metal block , provided with a clamp and slow-motiou screw .
The telescope rests on this block , being movable degreos about a vertical axis .
The bearing of the telescope is the only mechanical part of the instrument that requires special For cross wires of the ordinary teles is substituted a micromettl millimetre scale is fix on a separate stand near as possible .
to bar of ice and at the same distance from telescope as the ice , and is left untouched during the observations , so that ib is of no coYlsequence , for measuring small , if it be not quite parallel to direction of the tension .
The distance telescope to ice 0 to the scale was about.30 .
On the top of the telescope is fixed a llevel .
We carefulIy djusted this , so that when the bubble was at ik the axis of l.otation of the tclescope was in the plane at right to the tube of spirit .
Then if the bubble remnined in its central position in azi1nuth of telescop , we could ) sure the axis of rotation was vel.tical .
The ervation ) taken by reading position , on the micrometer scale , of the image of the mark on the needle , then the and reading the position , on the micromete scaleD of the divisions of the millimetrc scale .
By interpolation the exact ] ) eight , on the millimetrs scale , of the mark 011 the needle was then l.eadily found .
It wiIl be noticed cathetometer need only remain steady while the telescope is swung round from the needle to scale ; ereas in } ) ordinary form there a Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd .
of the whole stand being slightly aced when the telescope is slid down to its lower position .
In fact in our circumstances an ordinar catbetometerwould have been practically useless , owing to the bending of the floor and table at the slightest movement of the observer .
Observations , even with our special form , required the utmost carc .
The micrometer scale had twenty divisions , each mm. in actual size , and corresponding to about mm. on bhe other scale .
The magnification of the telescope , as compared with the eye at 9 inches , was about 5 .
This was scarcely great enough .
We intended also to have the micrometer divisions half the size , but the maker was not able to graduate it so finely .
Indeed , as it was , the lines were rather too thick .
By estimating tenths of the micrometer divisions we could read to mm. , but the readings mi easily be at least mm. in error .
Each determination of the length between the needles depends on four readings , the upper needle , and its corresponding scale division , and the lower needle , and its scale division .
If the four readings happened to have each the maximum error mm. with a suitable sign , the total might be mm. Such a combination of chances is highly improbable , but an error of mm. is obviously not unlikely .
The cathetometer would have been a useful instrument for measuring a large and regular extension with accuracy , but it was not adapted to detect very small extensions , and a system of levers , which we adopted as a rough mode of measurement in our second set of apparatus , much more satisfactory and suitable to our purposes , that we almost entirely discarded the cathetometer .
This ivance is shown in fig. 3 , in the form finally ted .
and are sections of the projecting ends of glass needles fixed in the ice , cdef is a bent iron wire , " " the indicator booked to a wire loop securely fastened to is a wooden lever suspended by a thread which owing to the connterpoise , pulls the indioator upwards with a thread fastened to awire loop at .
The indicator is kept from rising by the connecting fibre , a piece of stiff wire hooked at one end to the loop , fastened to , and at the other to a bend in the indicaJor .
The lower end of the indicator gives the reading on a paper millimetre scale , gummed on to the mirror .
The mirror , of course , enables the observer to avoid errors of parallax .
The stand of the mirror is glued to the lower collar .
To appreciate the action of the levers , regard for the moment as fixed , then lowering through a small distance will move a distance at right angles to , where is ratio of the distance to the perpendicular let fall from on the produced if necessary .
If be made perpendicular to gd , when is in the middle of the scale , the multiplier practically constant .
This precaution was not always taken , but *This was a deeper bend than is shown in the figure .
allowance is made resulting error .
Two lever systems were required , one for the outel ends , snd the other for the inner ends of the needles passing through the ice .
In Exporiment 2 used two scales and mirrors enabled the readings to be taken with great accuracy .
Afterw , we contented ourselves with one , which gave quite sufficient aecuracy for any but homogeneous ice .
In the first few experiments we used glass fibres , both for the indicator and we feared some slight motion of might arise from the " " elastic x.ecovel.y\ldquo ; ) wire .
This was put to the test of experiment .
A long piece of the same kind of wire was bent sharply at an angle , and the two ends brought nearly into contact .
It was hung over a nail , and the distance between the ends measured from time to time .
The effect of ) unbending of the angle would Messrs. J. C. MoConnel and D. A. Kidd .
[ June 21 , in this case , owing to the greater length of the arms , be about twice as great as in the extension experiments , and yet it was found to be scarcely perceptible .
For practical convenience in setting up the ratus the wire was found immensely superior .
The trouble of fixing in position a delicate arrangement of brittlc glass fibres , in an awkward place like the back of the ice chamber behind the bar of ice , can hardly be realised by any one who has not tried it .
In the first few expeliments the loops and were not used , and the indicator and connecting fibres were simply hooked over the needles and .
And in Experiments 2 , 3 , 4 , and 6 , no efficient precautions were taken to prevent slipping the needle .
It is to be remarked , however , that any such slipping would produce an apparent contraction , and , owing to the sudden alteration of the rate of extension , any slipping of importance could hardly escape detection .
* Such cases are either omitted or mentioned .
The lever and counterpoise were found rather troublesome , and will probably be dispensed with next year , by the connecting fibre on the other side of the needle .
Our second apparatus , which we shall call the rough apparatus , was of much simpler construction .
Instead of the collars we used two plates , each about 12 cm .
square with a hole cm .
square in the centre .
The to be tested was ssed through the hole and frozeu on to a block of ice on the other side of the plate .
The upper plate was suspended by cords attached to holes at the corners , and from the lower plate was suspended by similar cords a bucket , in which various weights could be placed .
In Experiments 3 and 4 , the four cords were simply knotted together , and hung over an iron hook fastened to a cord .
But it was difficnlt in this way to ensure that the line of action of the should be the central line of the bar of ice , and we thought it likely that the bending in Experiment 4 was due to this cause , so we adopted the rivance shown in fig. 4 .
A is the upper iron plate , the har of ice attached to the block of ice E. is a wooden plate with holes at the corners and a at the centre , in exactly the same relative positions as the holes in the corners and the centre of the hole in A. CCCC are four ords of equal length , and the main cord by which the whole is upheld .
When the arrangement is in equilibrium , the cords will be vertical as well as the cord , so the line of action of tlIe tension , which is the central line of the cord pass through the centre of the squars hole in , ev though the two plates be not quite horizontal .
The same remarks apply to a similar ement for the lower iron plate .
If almost every experiment far more readings were taken than are recorded below .
This block was thicker than in the figure .
bo not attached accurately at right angles to the plates , it will take np a vertical position and the plates lvill be tilted .
This contrivance was successful , for the icicle , which owing to its symmetrical formation would probably under uniform bension stretch equally on both sides , showod but small signs of bending .
So think it fair conclude that in the later specimens the bending was due 10 u1lsymmetrical structure .
In the later experiments ( 6 , 8 , 9 and 10 ) the apparatus was enlosed in a box of wood about.3 cm .
thick .
box was jacketed on the outsidc with a layer of hay about 5 cm .
thick , covered tper or felt .
The cords , eading to the ) port and the wcight , ssed tough holes in the top and bottom well with cottoll-wool .
In all cases , except when the contrary is expressly mentiolled , the bar of ice was wrspped in gutta-percha tissue to check the ation .
The polal.iscope was of the simplest possible .
The light transmitted by a of paper was reflccted at the polarising angle by a pilc thrce glass plabes towards a Nicol prism supported in same framcwork .
With its aid it was easy to see the boundaries of the various crystals in a plate or bar of glacier though not a of division could be detected with the naked eye , and with somo the direction of the optic axes of a few of crystals could be made out .
In the bath icc the homoof crystal could be readily tested , by watching tho unchanged position of the rings and cross while the bar moved across field .
In lakc ice a half-inch plate , cut at right angles to the in the polariscope , showed a series of polygons black , white , grey , when the empty field was black .
The almost invariable absence of colour that few or none of the VOL. XLIV .
2 348 Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd .
[ June optic axes were nearly parallel to the length of the columlls .
That the axes , however , were .
not accurately perpendicular to the length of the columns , i.e. , horlzontal in the original position on the lake was shown by examining separate columns .
After allowing the lce to thaw slightly , or better after leaving it in the rays of the sun lor twenty minutes , the columns could be easily separated .
Detailed Account of the Experi ments .
It will be more convenient to describe all the experiments made Main 's apparatus first , than to keep to the chronological order .
E:cpertment No. 1 .
Main 's A ; pparatus.\mdash ; Measurements were taken with the cathetometer .
The specimen was a square bar of ice , taken from the surface of a bath of water about a foot deep , and cut into hape with a knife .
It was perfectly clear and free from bubbles .
It was wrapped in gutta-pe.reha tissue , which was not removed till the end of the next experiment .
The " " needles\ldquo ; were pieces of steel knitting needle .
The area of the section was .
cm .
, and the tension kilos .
per .
cm .
The hours in the first column are reckoned from midnight .
The third column gives the extension observed , measured from the length at the first reading .
The fourth column gives the temperature just before each reading .
The maximum temperature during the whole period was and the minimum .
The fifth column gives roughly the difference between the heights of the marks on the right and left ends of the upper needle , and the sixth coInmn the same thing for the lower needle .
These are added to show that a slight bending took place chiefly between the 14th and .
On removing gutta-percha , at the end of the next experiment , a surface crack was found which may have occurred ab the same time .
Each reading 1888 .
] On the Plasticity of Glacier and other Ice .
3.49 on the micrometer scale of the cathetometer was taken twice , the telescope having been turned about the vertical axis in the interim .
The two encrally agreed .
If not the mean taken .
On the 20th , ever , a second set of was taken , the telescope having been .
slid the rod in the interim .
Both determinations are ivon .
TLe erl'nrs of cathetometer reading have been already discussed .
If we mm. a possiblo error in ch determination of , the obs tions a consistent with no real extension .
But .
the last two columns into considcration it sccms probable that tvas an extcnsion of mm. between the 14th 16th and nollo .
later .
if ) total nsion h ) mm. , this would ] corresponded to a mean extension hour per of 10 .
of only mm. .\mdash ; The same piece of ice was fitted up with glass indic connecting fibres , the needles same as before .
indicator was provided a mirror and scale set close up to it , so on the scale could be taken to mm. But on { he other ]Jand t was a possibility of the indicators ipping on the ncedlcs thus occnsioning a contl'action .
multiplicfttion on the outer , on the .
Thus an extension of mm. could be detected .
The secorld , third , fourth columns of ) ] ] table give ) extcnsions , from the ]ength at the time of the third ervation ( for a reason mentioned ) , and reduced to the proportionate am for a length of 10 cm .
are probably correct to mm. 350 Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd .
[ June 21 , The temperature on the afternoon of the 30th not taken , bnt the notebook contains a statement thab it was colder than the morning .
Since the box was left open all night , the temperature given by the thermometer on the morning of the may well have been rather lower than that of the ice .
Between the 1st and 2nd , an apparent contraction of mm. on one side took place without change of temperature .
This looks as if the indicator had slipped .
Making allowance for these , the mean extension from the 31st , , to the 5th , 16 , follows the temperature very fairly , considering the uncertainty of the latter .
We have arranged the table to show this .
But during the first six hours there was an expansion on one side of mm. in actual magnitude , which we attribute to a yielding at the crack .
the contraction as a slip , and making allowance for temperature , the mean rate during the whole 150 hours was mm. per hour per length of 10 cm .
If we suppose that the extension during the last five days was entirely due to temperature , and that the coefficient of expansion of the glass of the connecting fibre was , we have between and a coefficient of linear expansion of ice of between and of , and between and of Into the complicated question of the expansion of ice with temperature we do not care to enter fully .
We will merely cite two investigations .
The best observations on the cubical coefficient seem to be those of Pettersson On the Properties of Water and Ice ' Expedition , ' vol. 2 , Stockholm , 1883 ) .
We deduce from his figures the corresponding linear coefficients , supposing ice to be isotropic in this matter .
With ice from ordinary distilled water he obtained between and .
This ice began to contract at some point betweon and .
With ice from the purest water he could obtain the coefficient rose from between and to between and , and then decreased , till it changed sign at some point between and .
Ice containing per cent. of chlorine , in the slJape of salts , began to contract at .
In these experiments the water was frozen in the dilatometer , so there was no chance of theJmpurities being expelled by the process of solidification ss in the case of ice formed slowly on the surface of some depth of water .
His purest water , however , was so good as to be seriously affected by boiling for a short time in a clean glass vessel .
The coefficient of linear expansion has been determined directly by Andrews ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc June , 1886 ) .
He found between and , and between and .
It is possible that the dilerence between the determinations of these two 1888 .
] On the Plasticity of Glacier and other lce .
xperimentalists is owing an unequal expansion of ice in different directions .
At rate , taken , ether , they are sufficient to explain our rough rrsults , ou the supposition that the extension of the lasb five dnys cntirely due to the rise of temperature .
was brought to a close by bar king at a point bove the upper needle , where ib was , profected ) guttatissue , and had becollle very thin t evapo ation .
The been rednced by this cttuse in three weeks from .
to cm .
emperaturo , at which the fi.acture vecn - , certainly not bove the former .
lsion kilos .
per sq .
cm .
) a groove runlli YoLlnd the bar neal ' the middle of its lcugth , but no sigll could be seen in the interior of the ice .
This groove have been caused the cooling more rapidly thnn the iIltel.ior Under the uo break the coYltinuity of irle souJd [ detected .
The and cross were sPeu very plainly , and the direclion of the optic axis appeared to be on both sides of the ) to the lengbh of tl1c bar and also to the lleedles .
By a measure of tho the indices of refiaction to be .
In nrtz it is ; in spar eriment 's Apparatns.\mdash ; The speci m a piece of ( T3 ) .
The llleasureme]lts were tnken the cathetometer .
We found , in the obher atus , that glacier ice would stretch , but we it to confirm the fact with a mode of measuroment So in this one case we used the cathetrmctel again , in spite of its dvanbages for his kind of work .
The lcngbh between the was about 20 cm .
, the of sectiou .
cm .
, and the tension kilos .
pol .
cm .
] second Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd .
[ June 21 , column gives the temperature just before each observation , the fourth the actual extension during the interval in metres , the error probably not exceeding mm. , the the rate per hour per length of 10 cm .
, and the two last the maximum and mean temperatures ring the interval .
On the 10th and 11th the ice broke at the collar , and had to be frozen together .
It will be noted that the rate of extension decreases with the time , more than can be explained by errors of observatio1 ] , though the tendency of the temperature is to rise .
Eoeperiment No. 7 .
Main 's Apparatus.\mdash ; The same piece of ice was used , cut a little shorter ( glacier ice C ) , and fitted with wire indicators .
Only one scale was used for the two indicators , so the l.eadings cannot be trusted beyond mm. on the scale .
As the multiplication was generally about 16 , this gives an error in the actual extensions , when small , not greater than mm. When the extensions are large the error is greater , owing to an perhaps 10 per cent. in the multiplication .
The " " needles\ldquo ; were glass tubes .
The length between the needles was 18 cm .
, and the area of section .
cm .
The first column gives the time of each reading , the second the temperature at that time , the third the interval between two readings , the fourth and fifth the extension shown by the outer and inner indicators , the sixth the mean rate of extension per hour per length of 10 cm .
, the seventh the tension , the eighth , ninth , and tenth the maximum , minimum , and mean tempe ratures , during that interval .
On the 17th February the tension was increased by one-half , and the ice in consequence broke at the collar .
It was frozen in again , and the tension reduced to the original value .
On the 8th March an hour was occupied in readjusting the wire indicators .
The sixth column shows a rapid decrease of speed for the first five days , followed by fluctuations due mainly to the temperature , the rate at being about double that at .
An addition of onehalf to the tension increased the rate 500 per cent , for the first two days of the change .
This increased rate in its turn showed a tendency to sink , more or less counterbalanced by the rising temperature .
The fourth and fifth columns show the curious way in which the more rapid extension alternates from one side to the other .
This piece of ice , taking the two experiments together , was under tension for twenty-five days , and extended altogether about 6.mm .
, i.e. , about 8 per cent. of its length .
At the close of the experlment the divisions between two or three of the crystals at one point of the bar almost amounted to cracks , and at that point there was a decided twist in the bar , estimated at .
There were a great many bubbles in the ice , and the crystalline structure was very complex .
There was no particularly large crystal .
Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd .
[ June 21 , The area of section was 6 .
cm .
, and the tension 4 kilos .
per sq .
cm .
The measurement was taken with glass indicators .
A straight glass fibre was used as indicator , bent at one end to hook under the lower needle , and supported in a nearly horizontal position by a glass connecting fibre hooked over the upper needle .
The vertical scale was attached to an arm projecting from the upper iron plate .
the first honrs the ice extended mm. on the outer side , and contracted mm. on the inner side .
Durin .
a subsequent six hours it extended mm. on the outer side and mm. on the inner .
The mean rate per hour per length of 10 cm .
was therefore mm. The temperature is not known with any certainty .
This ice was never examined under the polariscope , but owing to the mode of formation described fully at the end of paper , we may be certain the structure was in the highest irregular .
It was probably , however , tolerably symmetrical about the axis , so bhe bending may be attributed to the eccentric application of the pull .
Experiment No. 4 .
Rough Apparoitus.\mdash ; The specimen was a piece of glacier ice ( A ) , composed of a dozen " " grains\ldquo ; very irregularly arranged , the axes of being at right angles , of others parallel , to the length .
Qtance between needles about 22 cm .
The area of the section is a little uncertain , as it was not measured in situ , and the ice was not protected from evaporation .
It may bs taken as sq .
cm .
, and the tension as kilo .
per .
cm .
The ice was subjected to tension about eighty-five hours altogether , but we only give the results for the last twenty-seven , as at first the indicators appear to have slipped , and , after precautions had been taken to prevent slipping the two indicators happened to come in contact .
The indicators were arranged as in the last experiment , bnt the readings were improved by attaching a mirror to the scale .
The multiplication was about SO , and the extensions may be trusted to 0.03 mm. The first column in the annexed table gives the time of each reading , the second the temperature at that time , the third interval between two readings , the fourth and fifth the actual extensions measured by the outer and inner indicators in that intel.val , and the sixth the rate per hour per length of 10 cm .
The temperatures are somewhat uncertain , as the ice was not enclosed in a box , and the temperature of the room was very far from being uniform .
The last four temperatures were taken by a hermometer hung close by ice and on the same level .
The minimum of the night by this thermometer was .
The high temperature at 21 .
was due to the window of the room having been nearly closed .
It was then thrown wide open , so the temperature must have soon fallen again .
So the interval before bhis reading , would probably be much warmer on the average than the subsequent .
Thus the si xth column the icc became more as it he wing point .
extensiollS i the fourth fif th coltlmtlS may ] have been due to application of the tcnsion .
No. 6 .
.\mdash ; The specimen was an icicle trimmc.d with a knife to .
secbiou .
The appal.atus was reatly ioved .
The new mode of adopted , specially al.rallged , as described above , to enstll.e the tension acting along the cen tral of bar .
The hooked over tho top eedl e and bent at right angles so as to point vftrds , as in Main 's ) .
They were of glass , and no orongbly efficicnt meanH was taken to prevent slippiug along needle , but we do not think any slipping can ve taken place the observations quoted below .
The whole ) al.atus was enclosed a jacketed box\mdash ; was , howevel , gencl.ally left open at night\mdash ; and a rade mollleter , to tenths , ) hung in the box on a level middle of ice .
In tl , fo fifth columns ve the actual extensions during interval , may be trusted to , and tlJc sixth column the mcan rate of extension per hour per lellg.th of 10 cm .
Th becund columll gives the of the t. at the time of the observation , and the last two colultltlS t nlaximum and peratures of ice each interval .
hese a tolerably accurate , as many observations bosides those quoted .
The ice was not protected from evaporation , so the 1888 .
] of Glacier and other Ice .
.357 section gradually diminished , and the tension consequently increased , as given in the seventh column .
The mean section was about .
cm .
The icc was under tension twenty-four hours previous to the observations given below , but this time the indicators seem have slipped .
weight was removed for twelvo hours on the 14th owing to the thaw .
Ib is ctlrious to notice how irregularly the extension is divided between the two sides ; the ice first one way then the other .
fluctuations in the mean raf of extension seem mainly duo to the atnre .
During thirtecn ours r a tempel.ature etween - the was ) , while tbirtyeight a tempcrature bove - the rate was .
The ice was full of bubbles , not in sufficient quantity to make it quito opaque .
The componcnt crystals vere very small ] , less than a millimetre in diameter , and with optic axes quite No. 8 .
paraius.\mdash ; The specimcn was a piece of tcrlacier ice .
The wire indicators and fibres were hooked through wire loops firmly fastened to the glass necdles embedded in ice , so there was 110 possibility of ] .
The multiplication was about , so the small extensions arc ficCtll{tc to mm. The of section was .
cm .
Tho table is in the last iment ( .
Thus the whole extcnsion in three and a half more per cent. of the lengbh .
At .
the inn er indicator moved off the inst a slop , so xtellsion v probably rather greater , 1lot less than that given .
extension at a particularly , mentioned in the general summary , was between ebruary 1 , when the temperaturc , nnd February .
Therc was a on the outer sidc during this interval of lllm .
, and an extension on the inllcr sidc of mm. , so the mean rate per 10 cm .
mm. It should ) mentioned that the points 011 glass needles , the indicators were attached , were not quite close to the icc but at the distance of a ) .
Honce , while the m is correctly , the exfcnsion on the inner tside of the bar is exaggerated , and that on the outer side made too small .
the lce as cm .
thick , this considcration leads to the result that the total extension of the outer face of the was miIl .
, of intler facc mm. This e.xperiment shows how completely plasticity ) ends on changes in the lnternal structure of ice .
for first two days we find , under a slight stress , a rate .
some tendency to decrcase more rapidly can bo ily attributed to the fall of temperature .
An increased tension oduces as usual a 1888 .
On the Glacier and other Ice .
to say , impressed a gradual retardation in spite of a rising temperaturc .
It wonld thus appear that in this case , while a rapid increased the , a extension had the effec.t of diminishing it .
This is an anomalous csult , but it ntust be emembered that we uring the sum of large number of independent viour of the wholc is probably much nor complicated fhttn of one of the individuals .
iotlS to scc the effcct of , we plied 4 kilos .
is the experiment to an .
after half a the ice .
It was found broketl both the collar llld ) uillG below ]leelle , iously noticed a part of the way across the .
At it broke ca1lnot say .
The bar was examined the of the experiment .
It lleally in spitc of one sidc extended so mllch more than the other .
It contained bllbbles , one cm .
] ollt secmed to piece great while it still formed of cier .
It pttrt of a cryRtal which compose , one of holc betwcen tccdles .
This ) of the ( adjacent to ) .
face , which xtel ) } .
Its optic axis at perhaps to the ] bar .
.\mdash ; The bnr of to the of the .
The se cm .
in .
The the same ) .
ions i inte ] Otlld be We second , third , 11( col of -xte ) sured f the tlmt { Llle of the to the valuo bar 10 corrPct to fifth howl the thormtlletet at ; th ntxt threo the nlaximum , nlininu]n , and meall from a nlllfibc of ervations not ( ]tlotc to 1 ice must have awjng , emoved f Ilext tolal extellsion ours I length of cm .
mm. the outer sidc , and mm. the inner , honr of mm. the mm. , and during the the mm. , slightly mcan ut rates were so small as to be ) our mearls of accurate measurcment .
1888 .
On the of Gtacier and other Ice .
Examining the bar at the end of the experiment , we counted about thirty columns in a section , most of which ram the full length of the bar .
a sectionaI area of about 85 sq .
mm. No. 10 .
Apparatus.\mdash ; The specimerz was a ) ' of lake ice , ) ystalline columns obliquely across at an angle of the of the .
The area of section was .
The indicators , \amp ; c. , were as before .
The tcmperatul .
G at time of observation , and the imum tomperature were } maximum ) are estimated .
fourth fifth columns give the actual extension .
each interval .
probnbly correct to mm. , the mulbiplication The shuws a tendency to decl.easc , only cbecked by } of temperature .
The glass needles vere put at right to the columns as well as to the length of ) 1888 .
] On the of Glacier and other Ice .
36,3 We shall now desclibe the experiments on compression .
An oblong iecc of tl , plate glass was laid on the table , and on ib sqnare blocks of ice , the of an equilatoral tri bout 9 cm .
in the side .
On the ice was laid a second piece of plate glass si1uil,11 to first , and prcssul.e applied by means of a lever at a point immcdiatoly over the centre of the ents were of the ween the plates at three points on , such point a illC t the angular point of .
By .
a to scnl , if not diffioult to deduce from these the vielding of block of ice .
To prevent slippiug , we found it sufficient to freeze a slip of ) on end of a .
A ximum thermo1neter ccd on the close by plates , and covered over with the cloth , so that it ve te1nperature of the ice a .
The ion of each bloek was .
cm .
in .
The fourth , , and columns give the ctual colltraction of the blocks 'luri each .
They arc corrcct probably with mm. lncasuement with the was , and two leadinos selrlom differed more thtlll Llre had been applied for on day previous to iven , to accident , its nitude was rathcr .
The ence b plasticity of ) ecimens of ice shown , in this case all piece vcrc from same lump .
After the experiment they were iamined under the copc .
All were of ps 7 mm. in meter .
The increase of ) for a from to is very in leces .
No. 2 on pressio pieces of ice were as in the last .
The ) columlls vere v , so that the pressure applied in a allel to .
The section of each I ) ; ec was 7 sq .
cm .
The , and sixth colunlns of the table give the contractious each , calculated the readings actually taken , as description of the experiruent .
) ' proably acculte to 1nm .
lt may be mentioned that are to an place of decimals , explains tho ) ancy obscrvable .
VOL. XLLV .
366 On the Plasticity of Glacier and other .
[ June 21 , Thus the yielding of one piece was well within the et.rors of observation , of the other two only just perceptible with the instrument etnployed , and this small yielding may well have taken place in the thin layer of irregular ice with which the paper was attached .
In the early part of the winter we made , as already mentioned , large number of experiments on obtaining ice in the mould*free .
from .
bubbles .
We were ultimately successful , and , though our experiments proved to be of little use their immediate object , they are of some permancnt interest as tests of various methods of obtaining air-free water , so we shall describe a fevr typical ones .
Main , the previous winter , boiled the water and let it freezo , then melted it in the mould , boiled it , and let it freeze again .
The result was clear ice , except for " " a small core of minute bubbles up the axis of the cylinder By Main 's dvice we procured an air-pump adapted to exhaust the air from the mould .
the pump and the mouId was a good stoptjock , which would maintain vacuum for several hours .
When in good order the pump would boil water at C. , or below .
We found that this degree of exhaustion was far from removing all the air , even when applied for five hours .
Boiling for half an houl , cooling sub , and freezing at atmospheric pressure under oil was more successful , but not satisfactory .
We froze the water at atmospberic pressure to make the bubbles small , having placed a layer of oil on the top to prevent air entering .
The next method proved much more effeotual .
We kept water sub vacuo for twenty-four hours at about , and let it cool sub vacuo , only admitting air after the freezing had begun .
There weTe a few small bubbles visible at one end of bhe rod of ice .
Thawing this sub vacuo and keeping it again for twenty-four hours sub vacuo at C. , we got rid of the last traces of air in the rod , though there were a few in the large cone of ice .
[ We conclude that , to free water from air , it should be boiled till most of the dissolved air has escaped , and ] left for a considerable tims without permitting any air to have access to its surface .
Boiling should be repeated at intervals to remove the air , which gradually escapes from the water and mingles with the aqneous vapour in the space above .
It is probab ] that a high temperature quickens the process.\mdash ; July 6 , 1888 .
] The utter irregularity of the crystalline structure of the mould ice is an obvious consequence of the mode of formation .
The first ice formed , no doubt , is a layer on the surface , but the centre of this is soon broken thongh by water forced up from , owing to the expansion in freezing .
So what we observed in its various stages was *This was the iron mould used Main to form a column of ice cm .
in diameter and 24 cm .
in length , with a conical expansion at the lower end of perhaps half the ulume of the column .
1888 .
] isation of .3 a ring of ice at the surface , which gradually exteuded down centr till we a long tube of ice thinning out ards the end jomed on to a case of ice , lining inside of the cone .
Tho tubc thicker thicker , till it a solirl bar .
When a ) ieccot .
shcet india-rubber was laid on the SUt.faco prevent it was frozen firmly to the sidcs of the hilc the centre pushed vards into the shapc of a beeve , till at it burst .
curiuub to the with ) middlc oul tube edges , firmiy ) ) edded i ice at somo litble from tho end .
In , wo wish to onr to .
Main for the use ot his machine , and of the various , and other appal.atus , which he has generously plac at our vico .
Iu caso of bhis paper should be kind to offer us any , or on other ] shonld information 011 any point , we give here the mauent a of one of authors , C. McConnel , chester , .
We may copics of papers ring on the ct would .
" " On .
of the Fossil Plants of the \ldquo ; By lVILLIAlIboN , LL. D. , of the vcns C sler .
ceived Juue

