I. " Observations on the Natural Affinities and Classification of Gasteropoda .
" By JOHN DENIS MACDONALD , Assistant Surgeon R.N. Communicated by Captain DENnHAM , R.N. , F.R.S. Received January 13 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) During his sojourn among the Feejee Islands , the author devoted much time to the anatomical investigation of recent Gasteropoda , with the view of discovering such indications of affinity in the details of structure as might serve as a basis for a natural arrangement of the order ; and the present paper is designed to give a statement of some of the results of his researches , in order that the affinities of structure developed may be fairly examined and taken for what they are worth as principles of classification .
After pointing out objections to the foundation of primary divisions among the Gasteropoda on characters derived from the shell or from modifications of the respiratory organs , the author observes in respect of the value of sexual characters , that when the distinguishing features of a class are once satisfactorily determined , and this contains forms in which the sexes are either separate , or combined in the individuals , no other characters can be of greater importance in establishing primary divisions .
As a means of further subdivision according to natural affinities , he suggests distinctive characters derivable from the auditory sacs and concretions , and from the oral , lingual and gastric dental organs .
In Mollusca , as in Fishes , the auditory concretions present themselves in one of two forms , viz. solitary lapilli , usually named otolithes , or groups of small granules of a rounded oval or irregular shape , which have been designated by the term otoconia .
The lingual teeth are either set together on a short and broad lingual membrane , and form what the author calls a lingual pavement , or on a narrow longitudinal band termed lingual ribbon or strap .
The latter usually consists of a median rachis flanked by two lateral portions or pleurce ; but in some cases the rachis , and in others the pleurce are absent , and the number of longitudinal rows of teeth in these divisions may also differ in different genera .
The fore part of the lingual membrane is supported by cartilage , so curved and fashioned as to receive the lingual sac behind and form a basis to the tongue itself projecting in front .
This lingual cartilage may consist of a single piece thinned in the middle line , or of two or four distinct pieces , similarly arranged and wrapped together by muscle and ligament .
The oral dental organs or labial plates are disposed either horizontally or laterally .
In the former case a single plate may occupy the upper lip , or there may be two guarding the aperture of the mouth , and corresponding with both upper and lower lip , but the lateral plates are always in pairs .
Gastric teeth occur in the AplysiadEe and Bullidle .
After pointing out further differences in the form and arrangement of the dental apparatus in different genera , the author thus describes the mode of development of the lingual teeth .
" The lingual sac at first appears as a little cmecal process appended to the inferior part of the oesophagus , where it joins the oral cavity .
In the median line of the floor of this sacculus , a few minute plates disposed in a longitudinal row form the rudiment of the future rachis , and the progress of their development may be distinctly traced on examining them , seriatim , from before backwards , in which direction , as their growth advances , they acquire a more perfect form .
The internal row of pleural plates now makes its appearance , their development proceeding in a similar way ; and after this follow the others according to their position , the more internal arising first .
Thus the whole ribbon of dental organs increases in length and breadth by additions made respectively to its anterior extremity and sides ; and each transverse row gradually moving backwards by the continued development and growth of others anterior to it , causes elongation of the lingual sac , which only attains its perfect state when these processes are at an end .
The idea , therefore , that the new teeth are developed from behind forwards and successively brought into use , as in sharks and rays among fishes , does not appear to me to be correct .
" In the annexed Table a rough arrangement is given of a considerable number of genera grouped together by the characters above referred to .
Although the author thinks it improbable that any genera opposed to each other in those fundamental particulars can be intimately related , yet the facts are not advanced as the basis of a new classification , but simply that they may yield their own weight , as so many available tests of affinity .
Sexes separate .
Sexes combined .
Otolithes .
: Otoconia .
Otoconia .
Otolithes .
Strap .
Pavement .
Pavement .
Strap .
Strap .
Pavement .
Pavement .
Strap .
Oxygyrus .
Triphoris.:Solarium .
Helicina .
Patella .
Limax .
Ianthina .
Vermetus .
Atlanta .
Navicella .
Dentalium .
Parmacella .
Serpuloiies .
Carinaria .
Neritina .
Helix .
-Pileopsis .
Cardiapoda .
Nerita .
-Helicella .
-Hipponyx .
Firola .
Trochus .
Carocolla , -Pedicularia .
Cerophora .
Delphinula .
Bulimus .
Glaucus .
Egea .
Turbo .
-Partula .
-Elidia .
Syncera .
Stomatella .
Vertigo .
&amp;c. Melania .
Broderipia .
-Physae .
Truncatella , Haliotis .
Planorbis .
_ Planaxis .
&amp;c. Scarabus .
Litiopa .
Cyclophorus .
-onovulus .
-Litorina .
Diplommatin a. -Siphonaria .
Lacuna .
Pupina .
Amphibola .
Natica .
---Tornatella .
-Triton .
-Dolabella.-Ranella .
-Bulla .
-Terebellum .
Cylihna .
-Strombus .
-Doris .
_ litra .
Pleurobranch us .
Harpa .
-Phyllirrhoe.--Oliva. .
Ricinula .
-_ Purpura .
-_ Murex .
Muricidea..__ .
__ Cyrtulus .
Tritonidea .
__ Buccinum .
-__ Nassa .
-_ _ Pusiostoma .
Columbella .
-_ Conidea .
__ _ Pleurotoma .
Terebra .
Conorbis .
Conlus .
- ... .-.- .
Lingual dental organs.:1 Septiserial .
Mouth , Lateral , unarmed .
labial plates .
Oxygyrus .
Atlanta .
Carinaria .
Cardiapoda .
Firola .
Cerophora .
Egea .
Syncera .
Melania .
Truncatella .
Planaxis .
Litiopa .
Litorina .
Lacuna .
Natica .
Triton .
Ranella .
Terebellum .
Strombus .
Triserial .
j. Rachis , Rachis , armed .
unarmed .
Strap , short Strap , long and broad .
and narrow .
A Simple hooks Broad plates Plural plates , in the Pleuree .
in the Pleure , articulated , apparently moveable .
fixed .
Mitra .
Harpa .
Muricidea .
Buccinum .
Columbella .
Oliva .
Cyrtulus .
Nassa .
Conidea .
Ricinula .
Tritonidea .
Pusiostoma .
Purpura .
Murex .
Biserial .
Pleurotoma .
Terebra .
Conorbis .
Conus .
co eOCQ CD r an ' s : cD ( Lt ; ?* 02m Murex , Triton , and Ranella have always been associated together as members of one family by universal consent , and it must be confessed that the external resemblance between them is very remarkable ; but on comparing the lingual and labial dental organs of Triton or Ranella with those of Murex , it will be at once perceived that the latter genus can have no immediate affinity with either of the former genera .
The aperture of the proboscis in Murex is transverse , and armed with two horizontally arranged dental plates , connected laterally by the minute semi-calcified cells which line this part .
The upper plate presents a rough palatal surface , with an anterior encrusted cutting border , much resembling that of the crescentic mandible of Limax or Helix ; whereas the dental plates of Triton and Ranella consist of oblique rhombic cells identical in character with those of Cyclophorus or Natica , disposed laterally .
Again , on comparing the lingual strap of Murex with that of Triton or Ranella , we remark , first , that each transverse row of the former consists of three members , viz. one in the rachis , and one in each pleura , while in the two latter cases the pleurae present two additional elements ; thus there are seven series of dental plates in the strap .
The tongue-strap of Murex , moreover , is lengthy like that of Purpura and Ricinula , both of which genera are more closely allied to Murex than perhaps any others referred to its family .
The strap of Triton and Ranella , on the other hand , is comparatively much shorter , and singularly enough more nearly approaches that of Pileopsis or Vermetus , not only in general proportions , but also in the actual number and configuration of the dental plates and processes .
Now with these facts before us , it will be scarcely worth while entering further into the characters of the lingual dentition of Murex , Triton , and Ranella , but the most superficial examination of the figures ( which accompany the communication ) will show that Murex must be separated from its assumed alliance with Triton and Ranella , while the close relationship of the two latter genera gains additional support .
On comparing the lingual dentition of the genus Cyrtulus with that of Tritonidea of Swainson ( the Polia of Gray ) , both are found to be naturally allied by characters which very distinctly manifest a family relationship , and Swainson 's genus Mllkricidea , with several others , must also be referred to this group .
The lengthy triserial ribbon of Cyrtulus , or Tritonidea , for example , exhibits no true or immediate affinity with the comparatively short and septiserial dental armature of Triton or Ranella .
Thus the author is induced to dissent from Mr. Gray 's view that Tritonidea is allied to Triton , but agrees with him that the Buccinidce , forming an equally characteristic natural family , are very close at hand .
The lingual dentition , and in fact the whole anatomy of Terebra , most unequivocally refer it to the Conidce , and not to the Buccinidce , amongst which it is at present received .
The author has not been able to detect lingual cartilages of the usual character in Conus , Conorbis , or Terebra , but the walls of the tongue-sac are stout , tough , and distinctly cartilaginous in structure ; indeed the whole organ , including its armature , very much resembles the dental cheek-pouches of some Pteropods .
The lingual ribbon of Pleurotoma is exceedingly minute , and the parietes of the sac are not of that dense and unyielding character which they exhibit in Conus , Conorbis* , and Terebra .
Moreover , in Pleurotoma the little lingual membrane is supported by two rounded masses of cartilage composed of large spheroidal cells .
The rachis appears to be absent altogether , and there is but a single row of elongated , slightly curved , and sharp-pointed teeth ( differing considerably from those of Conus and Terebra ) in the pleurae .
The tongue-strap of Mitra , although remarkably short , is triserial like that of Murex , Purpura , &amp;c. ; but the author has invariably found that in those Mitrce in which the sculpturing of the shell was transverse , the pleural teeth were simple , uncinate , and mobile , while in those species characterized by a smooth surface or longitudinal sculpturing , the dental processes were small , straight , and numerous , arising just within the posterior border of broad basal plates .
This difference is exactly such as exists between the lingual dentition of the respective groups to which Miurex and Tritonidea belong .
Harpa and Oliva are very closely allied , by the general configuration of the body and the characters of the lingual dentition , though it must be remembered that the tongue-strap in the former is so very minute , compared with the whole bulk of the animal , as to appear quite rudimentary .
The simple lateral uncini , moreover , are only distinctly visible towards the posterior extremity of the sac .
Both these genera seem to be more intimately related to Murex and its congeners than to the Buccinidce .
Triphoris is now , as it would appear from the characters of its shell alone , placed with Cerithium , but the comparison of the internal anatomy of those genera offers no countenance to their supposed affinity ; thus , single spherical otolithes occupy the auditory sacs of Triphoris , while those of Cerithium contain otoconia .
The proboscis of the former is long and retractile .
The lingual membrane of Triphoris besides , though long and ribbon-like , supports a multiserial pavement of minute teeth , while that of Cerithium is septiserial , resembling in many particulars the tongue-strap of Pupina and allied forms .
The Columbellae deserve to be elevated to the rank of a family , distinguished from the Buccinidce by the unarmed rachis , and curved versatile pleural teeth of the tongue-strap .
Although not fully satisfied of the propriety of separating the genus Conidea from Columbella , the author thinks there can be no doubt that Pusiostoma , formerly placed with the Columbellae , forms a very distinct genus clearly referable to the Buccinidce .
As great difference of opinion has always existed as to the distribution of the sexes amongst Gasteropods , so far the author is unable to vouch for the whole truth of the arrangement above given , but he thinks that if there is anything incongruous in it , the correction of errors in that particular would seem to be most likely to restore harmony and support the truth of the system .
In the course of his inquiries the author was impressed with the fact , that various genera of terrestrial gasteropods , which agree with each other as far as regards their respiratory organs and mode of respiration , differ essentially in their general organization , whereas they are in this respect severally related to fluviatile and marine genera , which are obviously constructed on the same anatomical type .
In this way a terrestrial genus , having few structural points of agreement to connect it laterally , as it were , with others of the same habit , forms a member of a beautifully connected natural series , traceable from it through fluviatile and littoral forims to others which are altogether marine .
As an example of these relations the following Table is given , and it might have been extended and rendered more complete , had the author not preferred to limit it to such cases as have come under his own examination .
Sexes combined .
Sexes separate .
Otoconia .
Otoconia .
Otolithes .
Pavement .
Lingual ribbon .
Ribbon .
Teeth luiLmeRachis and Rachis unise-Rachis uniserous , uniform Pleurae multirial , Pleurm rial , Pleurme in character .
serial .
triserial .
triserial .
IIII Ielix .
Ilelicina .
Cyclophorus .
Egea .
Terrestrial ... ~ Bulimus .
Diplommatin a. [ , _ Pupina .
Physa .
Navicella . ?
Melania .
Fluviatile ... .
Planorbis .
Neritina .
Leading to Scarabus .
Nerita .
Cerithium .
Iydrobia .
purely maConovulus .
Turbo .
Planaxis .
rine genera .
Siphonaria .
Stomatella .
Litiopa .
re genera mphibola .
'Broderipia .
This Table shows the natural affinities of four principal divisions of terrestrial gasteropods , proceeding , as it were , in parallel lines , without any very obvious lateral connexions , through fluviatile and littoral forms , conducting to certain marine genera distinguished by this alliance from all others having no terrestrial representatives , and being therefore more restrictedly marine .
It may be remarked that the importance of the characters placed at the head of the Table has been proved by the comparison of other anatomical particulars in those genera , and so far their efficiency in other cases is substantiated .
The author adds the following observations on the anatomy of the Siphonaria and Arnphibola , as bearing on their position in the first series of the foregoing Table:"Siphonaria appears to enjoy the power of bre &amp; athing in both air and water with equal facility , and on examination , we find the respiratory surface so constituted as to afford a ready explanation of the fact .
Thus , in connexion with a narrow , combed , or rather transversely plaited gill , numerous vessels ramify extensively , and anastomose freely upon the roof of the respiratory chamber .
The mouth is armed with lateral labial plates , and the lingual dentition is not unlike that of Amphibola , to which genus it is further related by the absence of tentacula , and the general configuration of its head .
" Amphibola exhibits a close relationship to the Pulmonifera in many essential anatomical points , but it has a veritable combed gill , which , arising from a deep recess on the left side of the branchial chamber , and thence passing obliquely forwards towards the right side , terminates in a pointed extremity , in front of which there is a small glandular body , probably a renal organ .
The margin of the mantle may be traced continuously round the neck and the base of the foot , being attached in its entire extent , with the exception of a small portion which arches over a narrow respiratory opening on the right side of the nape .
The lingual sac is small , like a ctecal process appended to the antero-inferior part of the oesophagus .
The dental organs present a pavement of narrow basal plates with very long and gently curved cusps .
The teeth of the central series are much larger than the rest , and exhibit a remarkable conformation ; thus a rounded process projects in the middle and several minute denticulations arm its base on either side .
I have not succeeded in detecting either lingual cartilages or labial plates in my spirit-preserved specimens , and but for the support furnished by analogy , I would incline to the belief that they are absent in the present case .
" The remark made by Mr. Woodward in his very valuable little work the ' Manual of Mollusca , ' that the anomalous genus JAmphibola has an unusually broad tongue armed with teeth similar to those of the snail , is not quite correct .
The misconception most probably originated in the inspection of a preparation belonging to Mr. Wilton of Gloucester , and from which Mr. Woodward 's figure has been taken , as 'part of the tongue of Amphibola avellana ; ' but having myself dissected several specimens of this very species obtained at New Zealand , I am satisfied that Mr. Wilton 's preparation has been by some accident improperly named .
" The general scheme of the generative system in Amphibola corresponds very closely with that of Helix , Bulimus and such Pulmonifera .
The ovarium is imbedded in the liver near the summit of its spiral turns , and a small convoluted oviduct leads downwards and forwards along its inner or concave side .
The testis lies considerably in advance of the ovary ; the intromittent organ forms a prominence in the floor of the respiratory chamber , and finally the generative orifices open on the right side .
"

