]\gt ; On a Mistake in the structions for the Use of a C in Reductions .
By Sir G. H. , K.C.B. , ( Received November 4 , \mdash ; Read November 10 , 1910 .
) apparatus is describe in the ' Proceedings ' of the Royal Society , vol. p. Collected Scientific Papers .
I first correct an obvious misprint in fig. 3 , where is inserted in place of In S6 the incidence is determined of the exact mean solar hours of a day amongst the hours of a special time scale , when the- .
of solar .
time is assumed to fall within half a special hour of an exact hour of special time .
from this 12 .
of solar time we proceed upwards by Stlb r 1 , hours of solar time , but in special time , .
to the integral special hours when necessary so as to make that integral number lie between and inclusive .
Similarly we proceed downwards adding 1 , 211 hours of solar time expressed in special time , and nilarl reduce the integral number of special hours so that it shall lie betn'een and 23 .
There are thus in the schedule , 12 above the ldle and 11 below .
If denotes an .
solar hour , an exact special hour , and an error expressed in special time , each line of the schedule is of the forlu both and are whole numbers lying between and 23 The frequency of the error is ated , and is to conform to a certain law which is identically the same for each special hour from to 23 inclusive .
Each harmonic tide goes its period times ( with equal to 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , or 6 ) in its appropriate special day .
The height of the water is supposed to be observed at the exact solar , and the problem is to determine the error in the result when the observations are deemed to appertain to the corresponding exact hours of special time .
M. M. H. van wrote to me from the opinion that my procedure was erroneous , and I to find that his suspicion is well founded .
tely the error thus introduced is nificant as regards practical tidal work .
I will not explain how I came to go wrong , but will consider the correct procedure and show how the rules of computation must be amended .
424 Sir G. H. Darwin .
in the Instructions for [ Nov. 4 , Let denote the speed of any one of the harmonic tides expressed in degrees per mean solar hour .
Then since we may without loss of enerality take the amplitude of the tide as unity and the phase as zero , the 24 observations at the mean solar hours will be 24 values of corresponding to equal to , 1 , 2 23 , and as before is one of the numbers 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 or 6 .
We equally well have proceeded from and it is on this account that the phase is immaterial for our discussion .
We have to translate ncot into special time .
By the definition of a special day , when translated becomes per special hour , and by the edule of incidence becomes , thus we have .
In my paper I virtually wrote as , and as , so that was error reduced to angular measure at the rate of per special hour .
Hence the function to be considered , where is subject to a certain known law of frequency , say .
It was at this point that I made the mistake , for I erroneously considered the function .
The required mean value of is clearly to be determined from the fraction The integral in the denominator was found correctly , but that in the numerator was because of the wrong sign of under the cosine .
The factor in the result which was given as must be corrected so as to stand as It is proved that is equal to , where The correct final result is .
The was correct , but the term in was given in the paper with the wrong Accordingly the paper may be corrected by changing the sign of every term involving and in the computation forms the co1Tections in have been applied with the wrong although the numerical values remain correct .
Copies of the computation forms have been sold by the Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company for use with the apparatus , and I shall try to 1910 .
] the Use of Certain } Tidal .
425 reach the purchasers circular out that all the corl'ections on p. 12 of the forms which involve been systematically applied with the signs .
I notice on p. 13 under the heading a mispl.int of instead of , but the number nttached , viz. , is correct , except of course as to its sign .
The correction of the phases derived from the erroneous instl.uctions may be at once effected without recurring to the computations by adding to each twice the value ) ulated in the paper for the corresponding If this note should be seen by } one concerned who may not reccive a circular I him to notice the correction .
It has already been remarked that the error is practically insignificant .
The only tide in which it could possibly be appreciable is M2 , and since in this case the correction is equivalent to one minute of time in high water , the mistake caused by the erroneous instructions httS been minutes of time or 1o in .
Even for M2 the discrepancies in from year to year are often as great or reater than , and in the smaller tides they are frequently far greater ; moreover the solar group of tides has been unaffected by the mistake .
practically the error is of little importance , it is clear that it to be corrected .
* See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , p. , or ' Scientific Papers , ' loc. , p. 241 .

