The following papers were read , viz.:ยง 1 .
" Observations on certain cases of Elliptic Polarization of Light by Reflection , " by the Rev. Baden Powell , M.A. , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the University of Oxford .
The author , by way of introduction , passes in review the la ?
bours of various inquirers on the subject of the elliptic polarization of light , and notices more particularly those of Sir David Brewster , who first discovered this curious property , as recorded in the Phi ?
losophical Transactions for 1830 ; of Mr. Airy , in the Cambridge Transactions for 1831 and 1832 ; and of Professor Lloyd , in the Philosophical Transactions for 1840 , and in the Reports of the British Association for 1841 .
He then proceeds to give an account of his own experimental examination of the phenomena of elliptic polarization in the reflection of light from various surfaces , by observing the modifications of the polarized rings under different con ?
ditions , both of surface and of incidence , and by endeavouring to ascertain both the existence and amount of ellipticity , as shown by the dislocation of those rings , and to determine its peculiar character , as indicated by the direction in which the dislocation takes place ; the protrusion of the alternate quadrants appearing , in certain cases , in one direction , and in others in the opposite .
These observations are reducible to two classes ; first , those designed to contribute to the inquiry , what substances possess the property of elliptic polarization , by examining the light reflected from various bodies ; and second , those made on certain cases of films of several kinds , including those formed on metals by oxidation or other action upon the metal itself , as well as by extraneous deposition .
The author found the general result , in all these cases , to be , that from any one tint to another , through each entire order of tints , the form of the rings in the reflected light undergoes certain regular changes ; passing from a dislocation in one direction to that in the opposite , through an intermediate point of no dislocation , or of plane polar ?
ization ; and thus exhibiting a dark and a bright centred system alternately , as long as the order of tints are preserved pure .
These changes in the form of the rings , he observes , are precisely those expressed by successive modifications of Mr. Airy 's formula , corresponding to the increments in the retardation which belong to the periodical colours of the films .
The remaining portion of the paper is occupied by a description of the apparatus and mode of conducting the experiments ; and of the observations made on mica , on decomposed glass , plumbago , daguerreotype , and other metallic plates , and on the coloured films produced on steel and on copper by the action of heat , and of voltaic electricity .
The author gives , in conclusion , an analytical inves ?
tigation of Mr. Airy 's general formula .

