140 Mr. B. T. Lo'wne .
L^Pi* .
12 Of the four distinguishing characters of therefJj not rr ln/ neftr ?
6rhapS in tw ' .
' another T p me* Wlth any Comatulathough occurring in certab stalked Crmoids ; while the two remaining characters afe limited " one family of the PaWrinoids , one of them , being peculia^ 3 or at most two genera , which are confined tn hh* o\#171 ; _J one one , or rocks .
7 '\fe Palffiocrmoids , one of them , being peculiar tr at most two genera , which are confined to the Lower Siluria^ Their reappearance in such a specialized type as a recent is , therefore , all the more striking .
IV .
" On the Structure and Functions of the Eyes of Arthro poda .
" By B. Thompson Lowne , F.R.C.S. , Lecturer on Physiology mthe Middlesex Hospital Medical School , Examiner m Physiology in the Royal College of Surgeons , formerly Arris and Gale Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in the Royal College of Surgeons .
Communicated by Professor I lower , F.R.S. Received March 30 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) Three distinct forms of eye exist in the Arthropoda j the Compound eye , the Simple- Ocellus , and the less known Compound Ocellus common in larval insects , first described by Dr. Landois .
The relationship of the Compound eye to the Simple Ocellus is shown to be very distant , although I believe that these two types have been evolved from a common but very rudimentary primitive type .
On the other hand , that between the Compound eye and the Compound Ocellus of a larval insect , is very close , the Compound eye being merely an aggregation of a great number of these ocelli , variously modified in the more highly differentiated Insects and Crustaceans .
A fourth form of eye exists , in which the Ocelli are less closely united ; this forms a connecting link between the compound eye and the ' compound ocellus .
It is found in the Isopods , and may be conveniently termed the Aggregate eye .
The Simple Ocellus consists essentially of a pigmented capsule , behind a convex corneal lens , containing a cellular vitreous , which is separated from the retina by a fine fibrous membrane .
The retina itself is a layer of Bacilla , comparable with those of Jacob 's membrane in the Vertebrate , except that the highly refractive outer segments of the rods are turned towards and not away from the refractive media .
The fibrous membrane , between the rods and the group only .
I cannot help suspecting that a better knowledge of this type will lead to its absorption into Reteocrinus .
\#151 ; P. H. C. [ 883 ] Structure and Functions of the Eyes of Arthropoda .
141 Leons is attached aronnd its periphery to a structure which bears a trong resemblance to a ciliary muscle .
This is enclosed m a ring- 1 e .
o which surrounds the ocellus almost as the canal of Pe 1 tZ round the lens of a Vertebrate .
The vitreous is composed of a wle layer of cuboid or prismatic cells , each with a nucleus near its Ler extremity .
These cells extend from the inner surface of the -orneal lens to the outer surface of the fibrous membrane f The Compound eye has a lenticular cornea beneath which the Crystalline cones and great rods are placed .
These are separated from L ; deeper nervous structures by a membrane comparable with the jghrous membrane of the Simple Ocellus ; I have named this membrane thT^e ?
Membrana Basilaris is usually attached to the Cornea by an inflected ring of integument , the Scleral Bing , so that the Crystalline Cones and the Great Rods are entirely enclosed m a case .
I have called all these structures the Dio and have come to t e conclusion that they are all Dioptric in function .
They apparently correspond to the Cornea , Vitreous and Fibrous membrane of the Simple Ocellus . .
The Membrana Basilaris , like the fibrous membrane , has a sinus around its periphery , and is connected with the inflected integumentary ring by fibres , which have a disposition similar to those of a ciliary muscle .
$ , The Dioptron is nourished by Lymph Sinuses , which carry the circulating fluid from the Aorta* into the interior of the Dioptron and permit its exit into the common lymph spaces of the head .
Beneath the Dioptron is a nervous structure of great complexity ; this I have named the Neuron .
' .
The Neuron consists of a Retina , an Optic Nerve , and an Optic Ganglion .
The Retina is essentially a layer of rod-like bodies , Bacilla , supported by a delicate Neuroglia .
The Bacilla are similar to the rods and cones of a Vertebrate in size , in form , and in structure , each has an outer highly refractive , and an inner protoplasmic segment .
In some cases the outer segment is double , like that of the twin cones of fishes .
In other specimens I have detected a Lenticulus between the segments .
As in the Simple eye the highly refractive segments are turned towards the Dioptric media .
A layer of cells has been also demonstrated between the Basilar membrane and Bacilla ; these in the majority of insects send pigmented fringes inward , between the outer segments of the Bacilla .
The fringes are wanting in the diurnal flies , they represent the pigment layer of the Vertebrate retina .
I have spoken of the parts which underlie a single corneal * X have so designated the anterior extremity of the dorsal vessel .
Mr. B. T. Lowne .
On the [ Aprils Wiculus M a segment of the Dioptron .
In many insects , especial , , m the larva , , each segment has a distinct Betinula , consisting ' small bundle of Bacilla , which is connected with the gangliof by ' .
distmct nerve enclosed in a separate pigmented shLh I w ' named this form of retma Segregate .
In other insects the retin , continuous over the inner surface of the Basilar membrane but f connected with the deeper structures by a number of separai \#163 ; " I bundles ; whilst in the most highly developed Inserts , a singl !
, decussating nerve connecte a continuous retina with the gangS e ganglion consists of several nuclear and molecular layers , which VertewT 7 corresponding layers of the retiim of a AH the structures of the Dioptron are developed from the cellular Hypoderm whilst all the structures of the Neuron are formed from a solid papdla , or from a , number of papilla , which are outgrowths from the Cephalic Ganglia , so that in this respect there is ground for a morphological comparison of the Dioptron with the dioptric struc Vertebrate ** " lre"r0U w'th the structures of the eye of a The Compound Ocellus of the larval insect is merely a single segment of a compound eye , with all the apparatus of the Dioptron and Neuron .
I have used the term compound in relation to the efractive apparatus .
The Neuron consists of a single bundle of Baeilla connected with the ganglion by a separate nervebundle 8 For several years I sought in vain for an explanation of the manner in which the compound eye could serve the purpose of V'sion .
I discarded all the theories hitherto advanced , as being !
\#163 ; \#163 ; \#163 ; \#163 ; %\#163 ; ph\#151 ; \gt ; \#151 ; 4 Two years ago , whilst examining the reeent eye of a small moth ( Pterophorus ) , I was surprised to observe that the structure of the Great Bods was very different to anything with which I had previously been acquainted .
The inner extremities of the Great Rods have been ^tructurePmdleS ' ^ *** ^ known to Present a very remarkable 1 1 firSt-fr7ed in ^iS m'th ' that the SPindles are , during life , large ovoid bodies , filled with transparent highly refractive fluid ; the slightest injury gave rise to the escape of the fluid and left the bodies68 ^ COndition ' *he usual appearance of these A further investigation has shown me that all compound eyes when uninjured have similar ovoid Spindles .
These organs appear to act as magnifying and erecting lenses .
Their anterior foci correspond to the position of the subcorneal images , and the posterior foci with the -bacillar layer of the retina .
1883.1 Structure and Functions of the Eyes of Arthropoda .
14o It la " n known that if an object-glass is placed in the reversed Jition beneath the stage of a microsoope , and the instrument ; then focussed for its posterior focal plane , it , can be used as -\#171 ; - r- \#166 ; .* i insect 's eye in support of this view ; the focal lengths of the corneal lenses those of the spindles , and their relative distances , from each other'as well as the number and size of the corneal images are consistent with this theory .
Therefore a continuous picture , a mosaic of erect magnified central portions of the several subcorneal images , falls upon the retina , and the sharpness of vision is not necessarily dependent on the number of corneal facets . .
The complex modifications of the Dioptron appeared at first m many cases to offer insuperable objections to this view , and this necessitated a very careful reinvestigation of these structures , more especially in relation to the changes which they undergo m the preparation of sections for microscopic observation .
These researches have shown that many of the modifications observed are due to differences in the nature of the material of which the refractive elements are composed , not only m different genera and families , but even in the same species in different stages of development .
# In many cases the refractive media consist of an oil-hke nuid , which is decomposed or dissolved in the process of preparing the object for microscopic examination ; in other cases the mecia consist in part at least of practically indestructible Chitm .
And further the great elasticity of the parts gives rise to profound modifications the result of alterations of tension .
In the first , or introductory portion of my paper , I have reviewed the work of my predecessors with the object of showing the relation of previous observations to the theory which I have enunciated .
The remainder of my communication is divided into four paits .
I. The Structure and Functions of the Dioptron .
II .
The Strncture and Functions of the Neuron .
III .
The Development of the Compound Eye .
IV .
The Morphology of the Eyes of Arthropods .
I. The Structure and Functions of the Dioptron .
In this portion of my paper the structure of the Dioptron is described , and its relation to the views I have adopted is discussed .
Perhaps the most important additions to our knowledge of this organ has been the discovery of the very important part played by the oil-like fluid already alluded to .
This fluid is easily decomposed , 144 Structure and Functions of Eyes [ Apr. 12 and resolved into a reddish granular precipitate and a transparent fluid , which mixes readily with water and saline solntionSP b'ackened by osmic .acid , and rapidly dissolved by ether , oil of cloves and , though less rapidly , by alcohol .
1 A subcorneal lens has long been recognised in the eyes of Isopod , and has been regarded as a modified crystalline cone .
Muller believed OfTteTh'T to , be Present \gt ; 'h ' compound eyes of some insects Of ate this lens has been overlooked ; I have , however , found that it really exists , n the majority of Arthropods .
It consists of the oil-like fluid just spoken of , enclosed in an elastic capsule .
It gives the Cornea the peculiar brilliancy which it posseses during life The fluid contents of the lens is permeated by a more or less dense stroma ; which , when the oil is rapidly dissolved , by reagents , splits into four parts .
These are the bodies described by Claparede as " Semver 's nuclei .
In some insects the lens can be isolated , and its capsule can then be ruptured by pressure on the thin cover-glass , so that the escape of the fluid can be actually observed .
The empty capsules are then seen to be finely wrinkled , and usually tom by a single fissure .
In some insects the lens is developed from the cornea , in others from the outer portion of the crystalline cone .
The Spindles of the Great Rods also consist chiefly of the same refractive fluid , hence the profound modifications which they undergo when disturbed for purposes of investigation , or even as the result of post mortem change .
The formation of a subcorneal image as well as that of an erect image on the retina is discussed in this part of my paper , and the theory is shown by measurements to be in harmony with the actual conditions which have been observed .
The remainder of this part of my paper is occupied by a consideration of the principal modifications of the Dioptron .
I have recognised four distinct modifications of the Cornea , three ^ of which exist in different stages of development in the cockroach .
I have named these modifications , I. Simple Continuous Cornea .
II .
The Facetted Cornea .
III .
The Kistoid Cornea .
The fourth modification is apparently confined , amongst insects , I to the imago condition in the Gnats ; in these the cornea consists of the crystalline cones of the nymph united to each other by a thin cuticular lamina .
I have used the term lenticular to distinguish this form of cornea .
I have incorporated such knowledge as I have been able to glean with regard to the development of the cornea and subcorneal lens with this section of my paper .
ern .
1883 .
] PhyMogy of Carbohydrates in the Animal Syst The nature and modifications of the Crystalline Cone are next described ; these afford an exceedingly difficult problem on which further work will undoubtedly throw much light , especially in relation to the morphology of this organ .
Some details with regard to the structure of the Great Rods are also added , which did not find a place in the general description of the Dioptron .
II .
The Anatomy and Functions of the Neuron .
The Neuron consists of three parts\#151 ; the Retina , the Optic Nerve , and the Optic Ganglion .
The minute structure of these parts is fully described in this portion of my paper .
The relation of the nerve fibres to the Bacilla and the Great Rods is also discussed .
The optic ganglion consists of parts which are clearly comparable with the nuclear and molecular layers of the Vertebrate retina .
III .
The Development of the Compound Eye .
The manner in which the Dioptron originates in the Hypoderm of the insect , as well as the nature and origin of the " Imaginal Disks , " from which this structure is sometimes formed , is described .
The development of the Neuron from the nerve-centres of the head presents features of extreme interest and importance , especially m relation to the phenomena of Ecdysis .
The segregate retina of many larvae is entirely replaced at the final Ecdysis by a newly formed retina , which is continuous , so that it appears as if a kind of internal Ecdysis affecting the epithelial elements of the nervous system occurs with the general integumental Ecdysis .
IV .
The Morphology of the Eyes of Arthropods .
The final section of my paper is a short resume of the Morphological relations of the different forms of Arthropod eye .
These have been already alluded to in the commencement of this Abstract .
V. " Introductory Note on Communications to be presented on the Physiology of the Carbohydrates in the Animal System .
By F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.R.S. Received April 5 , 1883 .
My last communication ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 32 , p. 418 ) was entitled " A new Line of Research bearing on the Physiology of Sugar in the Animal System .
" Daring the time which has since elapsed , I have been actively continuing my investigations in the direction started , and the results obtained give an entirely new aspect to the whole subject of the physiology of the carbohydrates in the animal system .
vol. xxxv .
L

