]\gt ; Lord Rayleigh .
On the Diffraction of the one we should prefer , its discussion is of interest and would be expected to throw some light upon the general course of the phenomenon .
It has already been treated up to a certain point , both in the paper cited and the earlier one* in which experimen.ts upon precipitated sulphur were first described .
It is now proposed to develop the matter further .
The specific inductive capacity of the general medium being unity , that of the sphere of radius is supposed to be , where is very small .
Denoting electric displacements by , the primary wave is taken to be , ( 1 ) so that the direction of propagation is along , and that of vibration parallel to .
The electric displacements in the scattered wave , so far as they depend upon the first power of ( K\mdash ; 1 ) , have at a great distance the values , ( 2 ) in which .
( 3 ) In these equations denotes the distance between the point where the disturbance is required to be estimated , and the element of volume ( dxdydz ) of the obstacle .
The centre of the sphere will be taken as the origin of co-ordinates .
It is evident that , so far as the secondary ray is concerned , depends only upon the angle which this ray makes with the primary ray .
We will suppose that in the direction backwards along the primary ray , and that along primary lay continued .
The integral in ( 3 ) may then be found in the form , ( 4 ) now denoting the distance of the point of observation from the centre of the sphere .
Expanding the Bessel 's function , we get .
( 5 ) in which is written for .
It is to be observed that in this solution there is no limitation upon the value of if 2 is neglected absolutely .
In practice it will suffice that ( K\mdash ; 1 ) be small , equal to 2 being the wave-length .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 12 , p. ; ' Scientific Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 518 . . .
hght , by Spheres of Index .
: These are the formulae previously given .
I had not then noticed that the integral in ( 4 ) can be expressed in terms of circular functions .
By a general : theorem due to Hobson* ( 6 ) so that , ( 7 ) agreenAent with ( 5 ) .
The secondary disturbance vanishes with , viz. , t.an , etc. ) .
( 8 ) The smallest value of for which vanishes occurs when , i.e. in the direction backwards along the primary ray .
In.terms of the diameter is .
( 9 ) In directions nearly along the primary ray forwards , $ .
is small , and evanescence of requires much larger ratios of to .
As was formerly fully discussed , the secondary disturbance vanishes , independently of , in the direction of primary vibration .
In general , the intensity of the secondary disturbance is given by , ( 10 ) in which denotes with the factor omitted , and is a function of the angle between the secondary ray and the axis of .
If we take polar co-ordinates round the axis of ; ( 11 ) : and the intensity at distance and direction may be expressed in terms of these quantities .
In order to find the effect upon the transmitted light , we have to integrate ( 10 ) over the whole surface of the sphere .
Thus S * Lond. Matb .
Soc. , p. 71 1893 ) .
VOL XC.\mdash ; A. See ' Theory of ' S207 .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the Diffraction of The integral may be expressed by means of .
functions regarded as known Thus on integration by parts Accordingly , if now stand for 2 , we get .
( 13 ) If is small , the in ( 13 ) reduces to mo that ultimately ( 13 ) , ( 14 ) in agreement with the result which may be obtained more simply from 5 ) .
If we include another term , we get ( 13 ) 2 .
10 As regards the definite integral , still written as such , in 13 ) , we ave where is Euler 's constant and Ci is the cosine-integral , defined by Ci .
( 17 ) Lord Rayleigh .
On the of For values of much greater , 22 ) is sufficiently represented by or , simply .
It appears that there is no tendency to falling-off in the scattering , such as would allow an increased transmission .
In order to make sure that the special choice of alues for .
has not masked a periodicity , I have calculated also th results when is Here and cos2 , so that 21 ) reduces to The following are required:\mdash ; of which the first is obtained by interpolation from Glaisher 's Table , and the remainder directly from ( 19 ) .
Thus : The better to exhibit the course of the calculation , the actual values of the several terms of 23 ) when may be given .
We have so that It will be seen that this onwards the .
, viz. , , greatly preponderates ; and , is the term which to th9 ting form 20 ) .
The values of co.nc..e in the , bove .
are moderate .
Thus , , making only .
Neither Light by gheres Relative Index .
225 below this point , nor beyond it , is there anything but a steady rise in the value of as dimimshes when is constant .
A fortiori is this the case when increases and is constant .
An increase in the light ered from a single spherical particle implies , of course , a decrease in the light directly transmitted through a suspension containing a given number of particles in cubic centimetre .
The calculation is detailed in my paper " " On the .
Transmission of Light through an Atmosphere containing Small Particles iri need not be repeated .
It will be seen that no explanation is here arrived at of the augmentation of transparency at a certain stage observed by Keen and Porter .
The discrepancy may perhaps be attributed to the fundamental supposition of the present paper , that the relative index is very small , a supposition not realised when sulphur and water are in question .
But I oufess that I should not have expected so wide difference , and , indeed , the occurrence of anything special at so great diameters as 10 is surprising .
One other matter may be alluded to .
It is not clear from the that the light observed was truly ansmitted in the technical sense .
This light wss much attenuated\mdash ; down to only 5 per cent. Is it certain that it contained no sensible component of scattered light , but slightly diverted from its original course ?
If such admixture occurred , the question would be much complicated .
phiL Mag vol. 47 , p. 375 ( 1899 ) ; 'Scientiflc Papers , ' vol. 4 , p. 397 .

