" On the Meteorology of the English Lake District ( Sixth paper , for 1852 ) .
" By John F. Miller , Esq. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received February 22 , 1853 .
This paper contains records of the meteorology of the Lake district , similar to those of former years which have been communicated by the author .
These are given in tables:-Table I. is a Synopsis of the fall of Rain in the Lake district of Cumberland and Westmoreland in the year 1852 .
Table II .
Wet days ( the number in each month and the whole year at each station ) , Table III .
The quantity of Rain received by the mountain gauges in the year 1.852 ( for each month ) .
Table IV .
The quantity of Rain for the summer months ( May to October ) .
Table V. For the winter months ( November to April ) .
Table VI .
Temperature ( max .
min. approximate mean ) at Seathwaite , Borrowdale , 368 feet above the sea-level ( for each month and for the year ) .
Table VII .
Temperature at Whitehaven .
Table VIII .
Minimum temperature of each month , on Sea Fell Pike and Gabel , and at Sprinkling Tarn , from July 1851 to December 1852 inclusive .
Table IX .
Monthly hygrometrical observations taken at the mountain stations adjacent to the Vale of Wastdale , in the year 1852 .
Table X. Deductions relative to the humidity of the atmosphere at the mountain stations in 1852 .
Tables XI .
, XII .
, XIII .
, XIV .
contain hygrometrical observations made at various stations in April and July 1848 , and in December 1850 and July 1851 .
In the remarks which follow the tables , the author states that the past year'is distinguished by several marked peculiarities , of which the most prominent are the very large amount of rain and its very unequal distribution over the different seasons ; the enormous and unprecedented fall in the first two and last two months ; and the protracted drought of ten weeks in the spring , the longest , though not the most severe which has occurred in the northern counties within the memory of the existing generation .
The year is further remarkable for its high temperature ; the large amount of surface evaporation ; the great heat of July and August ; the great quantity of free electricity , as manifested by the unusual number and almost tropical severity of the thunder-storms ; the small number of frosty nights , and the entire absence of snow ; and , lastly , for the violent gales of wind which prevailed during the last week of December , particularly the hurricane on the morning of Christmas-day .
After the discussion of these irregularities , tables are given showing the excess or deficiency per cent. of the principal mountain gauges over or under the quantity of rain received by the adjacent valleys , both in the summer and winter months , in each year since the instruments were erected in 1846 .
'he remainder of the paper is occupied with details referring to the temperature and the hygrometrical observa tions at the mountain stations .

