16 Messrs. J. N. Langley and H. M. Fletcher .
[ Nov. 15 , chance of winning truth .
To me at least it appears that the line of thought flows in a true channel , that it may help to give a meaning to the observations of the spectroscopist , and that many interesting problems , here barely alluded to , may perhaps be solved with sufficient completeness to throw light on the evolution of nebulae and planetary systems .
III .
" On the Secretion of Saliva , chiefly on the Secretion of Salts in it .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , and H. M. Fletcher , B.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received August 17 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) Heidenhain has shown that when saliva is obtained by stimulating the chorda tympani , the percentage of salts in the saliva depends upon the rate o\#177 ; secretion , so that the faster the secretion the higher the percentage of salts is up to a limit of about 06 per cent. Werther has come to the same conclusion , but finds that the percentage of salts may be as much as O'77 .
Both in Heidenhain 's and in Werther 's experiments there are many exceptions to this rule , attributed by them to variations in the rate of secretion of saliva during the time of collecting any one sample .
We have repeated , with some modifications , the experiments of Heidenhain , paying especial attention to the rate of secretion of saliva , and find in 10 out of 11 cases , that his law of an increase in the percentage of salts with an increase in the rate of secretion holds .
The single exception may be due to a modification of the blood-flow through the gland during the time of collecting the saliva .
The slowly secreted saliva contains a low percentage of salts , whether it is produced by a weak nerve stimulus , or by a very strong nerve stimulus which lowers the irritability of the nerve-fibres .
We do not find any rate of secretion , beyond which an increase in rate fails to increase the percentage of salts in the saliva .
The increment in the percentage of salts decreases , however , with each equal successive increment in the rate of secretion .
As a rule in saliva obtained by injecting piloearpin , the percentage of salts follows Heidenhain 's law ; we take the exceptions to be due to the action of pilocarpin upon the circulation , the blood-flow through the gland being less than normally accompanies the degree of stimulation of the gland cells .
The percentage of salts in saliva obtained by stimulating the sympathetic is higher than corresponds to its rate of secretion , the saliva obtained by stimulating the chorda being taken as a basis of comparison ; this sympathetic saliva may be secreted at yi^th of the rate 1888.1 On the Secretion of Saliva .
17 of chorda saliva , and jet contain very nearly as high a percentage of salts .
Dyspnoea decreases the rate of secretion of saliva with a given stimulus , and if not too prolonged , increases the percentage of salts , and tends to increase the percentage of organic substance in the saliva .
This holds whether the saliva be obtained by stimulating the chorda tympani , or by injecting pilocarpin .
Dyspnoea has , for a short time , An after-action , tending also to increase the percentage of salts , and possibly that of organic substance .
Clamping the carotid during secretion has the same general effect as dyspnoea , but it causes a still more marked increase in the percentage of salts .
Its after-effect is also much greater , and lasts longer .
Bleeding has a similar effect to dyspnoea and to clamping the carotid , but its most marked effect is an increase in the percentage of organic substance .
Injection of dilute salt solution , NaCI , 0'2 to 0'6 per cent. , in sufficient quantity , considerably increases the rate of secretion of saliva ; the percentage of salts in the saliva decreases , although the rate of secretion of salts usually increases ; the percentage of organic substance decreases ; that is , increasing the volume of the blood with dilute salt solution chiefly increases the rate of secretion of water .
The percentage of salts in samples of saliva obtained after the injection of dilute salt solution , increases with the rate of secretion , it is only when these are obtained before the injection that a discrepancy in the normal relation between percentage of salts and rate of secretion of water appears .
Injection of sodium carbonate 2 per cent , also increases the rate of secretion of saliva ; in this case the percentage of salts is about normal , the percentage of organic substance falls slightly only , i.e. , the irritability either of the nerve-fibres or of the gland cells is increased .
Injection of considerable doses of potassium iodide , 1 per cent. , after the sodium carbonate still allows a rapid secretion , but the percentage of salts falls .
Injection of strong salt solution increases the percentage of salts in saliva , this is in accordance with the recent observations of Novi that the chlorine in the salts of saliva is increased for a given rate of secretion by increasing the percentage of sodium chloride in the blood .
We find , however , that in the case of an injection of strong salt solution into the blood which leaves the secretory power of the gland unaffected , the increase in the percentage of salts is much greater with slowly than with rapidly secreted saliva , and that when the secretory power of the gland is affected by strong salt solution , an increase in the percentage of organic substance also takes place ; this and a part of the increase in the percentage of salts we attribute to a decrease of the blood-flow through the gland .
VOL. XLV .
\lt ; 3 Mr. F. .
Gotch and Prof. Victor Horsley .
[ Nov. 15 , Saliva produced by stimulating the chorda tympani , or by injecting pilocarpin , after a small dose of atropin has been given , contains a low percentage of organic substance and of salts .
We , like Werther , find that sub-lingual saliva has a considerably higher percentage of salts than sub-maxillary saliva- .
If lithium citrate , potassium iodide , potassium ferrocyanide , and pilocarpin are injected into the blood , lithium can be detected in the first drops of saliva secreted , potassium iodide after the first six drops ; potassium ferrocyanide cannot be detected at any stage of secretion .
The general result of these experiments is to show that the secretion of water , of salts , and of organic substance are differently affected by different conditions , and that the percentage composition of saliva is determined by the strength of the stimulus , by the character of the blood , and by the amount of blood supplied to the gland .
All or nearly all the arguments which have been adduced to prove that the secretion of organic substance is governed by special nerve-fibres , have their counterparts with regard to the secretion of salts , -so that we might imagine at least three kinds of secretory fibres to be present .
The experiments , on the whole , indicate that this complicated arrangement does not exist , but that the stimulation of a single kind of nerve-fibre produces varying effects according to the varying conditions of the gland cells .
IV .
" Observations upon the Electromotive Changes in the Mammalian Spinal Cord following Electrical Excitation of the Cortex Cerebri .
Preliminary Notice .
" By Francis Gotch , Hon. M.A. Oxon , B.A. , B.Sc. Lond. , and Victor Horsley , B.S. , F.R.S. , Professor of Pathology , University College , London .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of Oxford .
) Received August 27 , 1888 .
[ Plate 1 .
] Hitherto pathologists have attempted the analysis of the epileptic convulsion by the graphic method , that is , by recording the spasmodic contractions of the muscles involved .
Recent investigations of this kind have shown that the excitation of the cortex cerebri , whether by electrical or chemical means , or by the presence of certain pathological states , neoplasms , inflammation , \amp ; c. , is invariably followed in the higher mammals by a definite and characteristic sequence of movements in the muscles .
It is , however , obvious that such investigations have up to the present succeeded in determining the characters of the neural disturbance only when this has reached the peripheral

