]\gt ; [ 329 ] .
The ) ariants of a Smface , and Significance .
A. R. FORSYTH , M.A. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of in the University of Cambridge .
Received February 14 , \mdash ; Read March , 1903 .
THE present memoir is devoted to the consideration of the differential invariants of surface ; and these are defined as the functions of the fundamental magnitudes of the surface and of quantities connected with curves upon the surface which remain unchanged in value through all changes of the variables of position on the surface .
The idea of differential parameters for relations of space appears to have been introduced by LAME ; it is to BELTRAMI* that the earliest ations of the corresponding quantities in the theory of surfaces are due , as well as many detailed results .
It is natural to expect that these differential invariants would belong to the general class of differential invariants which constitute LIE'S important generalisation of the original theory of invariants and covariants of homogeneous forms .
This association has been effected some classes of differential invariants by Professor \amp ; Zcheck ; ORAWSKI , and he has obtained the explicit expression of several of the individual functions .
Professor ZoRAWSKI'S method is used in the present memoir .
In applying it , considerable simplification proyes to be possible ; for it appears that , at a certain stage in the solution of the partial differential equations charactel.istic of the invariance , the equations which then remain unsolved can be transformed so that they become the partial differential equations of the system of concomitants of a set of simultaneous binary forms .
The known results of the latter theory can therefore be used to complete the solution of the partial differential equations , and the result gives the algebraic aggregate of the differential invariants .
This memoir consists of two parts .
In the first , the tion just indicated is carried out ; and the explicit expressions of the members of an aggregate , algebraically his memoir , " " Sulla teorica generals dei parametri differenziali ' Mem. Acc .
Bologna , ' 2nd Series , vol. 8 ( 1869 ) , pp. 549-590 , BELTRAMI gives a sketch of the early history of the subject .
An account of the theory , developed on the basis of BELTRAMI'S , is given by DARBOUX , ' generale des surfaces , ' vol. 3 , pp. 19:3-217 ; he also gives references to BONNET and a memoir hereafter qnoted ] ) .
VOL. CCI .
24.6.03 complete up to a certain order , are obtained .
In the second part , the geometric nificance of the different invariants is the goal ; in attaining it , some modifications are made in the aggregate , but they leave it algebraically complete .
The investigation reveals new relations among the intrinsic geometric properties of a curve upon a surface .
To the order considered , four such relations exist ; and their explicit expressions have been constructed .
PART I. CONSTRUCTION 0F THE INVARIANTS .
1 .
In an interesting memoir*published in the 'Acta Mathematica , ' Professor \amp ; Zcheck ; ORAWSKI has developed a method , outlined by LIp , and has applied it to the determination of certain properties of functions which appertain to a surface and are invariantive , alike under any mation of the two independent variables and under any deformation of the surface that involves neither tearing nor stretching .
In particular , he obtains the number of these functions of any order which are algebraically independent of one another ; he also obtains expressions for several functions of the lowest orders belonging to recognised types .
The method , and much of Professor \amp ; Zcheck ; ORAWSKI'S analysis , can be applied to obtain the more extensive class of all the differential functions which , appertaining to a surface and to any set of curves upon the surface , are invariantive under any transformation of the two independent variables .
The process , which involves the solution of complete Jacobian systems of the first order and the first degree , only gives the invariantive functions which are algebraically independent of one another ; it is not adapted to the construction of the asyzygetic aggregate .
Moreover , only some of these functions are invariantive when the surface is deformed without or stretching ; they can be selected by inspection , on using the fumdamental theorem connected with the theory of the deformation of surfaces .
As far as possible , the notation adopted by Professor \amp ; Zcheck ; ORAWSKI is used .
The analysis , preliminary to the construction of the differential equations which are characteristic of the invariance , is set out briefly ; it is needed to make the process intelligible .
There is some difference from Professor ZORAWSKI'S analysis , mainly ( but not entirely ) because a beginning is made from the consideration of relative invariants and not of absolute invariants .
2 .
The independent variables of position on the surface are taken to be and A function of these variables and of the derivatives of any number of functions " " Ueber Biegungsinvarianten : eine Anwendung der Lie'schen Gruppentheorie ' Acta Math vol. 16 ( l892-93 ) , pp. l-64 . .
Ann vol. 24 , pp. 574 , 575 .
OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCL .
which involve the invariables is said to be a relative invariant when , if the function of new independent variables X and and of corresponding new derivatives of the transformed functions be constructed , the relation is satisfied , where The invariants actually considered are rational , so that is an integel .
The invariant is said to be absolute where Now it is known , by LIE'S theory , that the property of invariance will be established if it is possessed for the most general infinitesimal transformation of and ; accordingly , we shall take where and are arbitrary integral functions of and .
Derivatives with regard to and are required ; we write ' for all values of and .
Thus , as only the first power of is retained , we have possible Arguments the 3 .
Next , we have to consider the possible arguments of a differential invariant of a surface .
Broadly speaking , these may belong to one or other of three classes:\mdash ; ( i ) the fundamental magnitudes associated with the surface , and their derivatives of any order with respect to and ; ( ii ) functions , , and their ives of any order with respect to and ; ( iii ) the variables and , and the derivatives of of any order with regard to We consider them briefly in turn .
4 .
Firstly , as regards the fundamental magnitudes : by a known theorem , a is defined uniquely ( save only as to position and orientation ) by the three of the first order , usually denoted by , and the three magnitudes of the second order , denoted by , N. ( If only be given , the surface is as above , subject also to any deformation that does uot involve tearing or stretching .
) These six quantities can cccur in the invariantive function required , as well as their derivatives of any order with respect to and But there is a difficulty regards the derivatives of ; for there are two relations , commonly known as the -CODAZZI equations , which express in tel.lns of , and the first derivatives of , G. To avoid this difficulty , it is convenient to introduce the four fundamental magnitudes of the third order , denoted by ; the six first derivatives of can be expressed in terms of , @ linearly , together with additive combinations of and of the first derivatives of , G. The second derivatives of will thus be expressible in terms of the first derivatives of , together with the appropriate additive combinations free from those derivatives .
But again there is a difficulty as regards these ; for there are three relations , which express in terms of , and the first derivatives of , G. To avoid this new difficulty , it is convenient to introduce the five fundamental magnitudes of the fourth order , denoted by , S , ; the first deriyatives of ( and therefore the second derivatives of L , M , N ) can be expressed linearly in terms of , S , , together with additive combinations of , and the first derivatives of , G. And so on , for the derivatives 01 successive orders of ; we avoid the difficulty of linear relations among them by the introduction of the successive fundamental magnitudes .
The analytical definition* of these magnitudes can be taken in the form where is the radius of curvature of the normal section of the surface through the * See a pnper by the author , 'Messenger of Mathematics , ' vol. 32 ( 1903 ) , pp. 68 et seq. ; see also S31 , OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
defined by , and the arc derivatives are effected along the geodesic tangent .
* Accordingly , the quantities of the class under consideration that may occur are and their derivatives up to any order , together with the fundamental magnitudes of auy order above the first , but without any derivatives of these fundamental magnitudes .
5 .
Secondly , as regards functions , , . .
and their derivatives : we do not retain the functions themselves , but only their derivatives , for the following reason .
The invariantive property is usually some intrinsic geometric property connected with a curve on the surface represented by constant or zero , constant or zero , and the like .
Accordingly , we retain only deriyatiyes of these functions up to any order ; the equations of transformation will show the connection of the order of these deriyatives with the order of the deriyatives of retained .
6 .
Thirdly , as regards , and the derivatives of with respect to up to any order : it is clear that and will not occur explicitly , for their presence cannot contribute any element to the factor ; it is also clear that they will not occur explicitly , for the further reason that their increments involve and but not derivatives of or , whereas all other increments involve derivatives of or , but neither nor themselves .
Further , after the retention of quantities of the second class , we shall not retain .
For let the value of belong to a curve on the surface , so that We know that where I is an absolute invariant ; if then we have a difFerential invariant involving , we turn it into one involving and , by writing while if we have one involving and , we turn it into one involving , by writing It would therefore be unnecessary to retain , when we retain first deriyatives any number of functions in an earlier class .
Similarly , it can be shown to be unnecessary to retain when we retain second derivatives of any number of functions in an earlier class ; and so for other derivatives of with respect to * See S31 , post .
It will appear that the introduction of these magnitudes not merely avoids the difficulty as regards the derivatives of , but also secures a substantial simplification of the expressions of the differential i11variants .
tfence we retain none of the third class of possible magnitudes .
But after the reasons adduced , we should only be justified in dropping from the set of magnitudes when it was otherwise required , if we associated the first derivatives of the appropriate function with the functions already retained ; or in dropping if we associated the second deriyatives of with the functions already retained ; and so for the other derivatives of .
( An example occurs later in S24 .
) NOTE.\mdash ; In calculations subsidiary to the determination of the geometric significance , it is found necessary to use the relations involving the derivatives of ; it may therefore be convenient to give their explicit They where \mdash ; and - ( FL \mdash ; EM ) ( \mdash ; ) ( GL \mdash ; EN ) \mdash ; ( \mdash ; ) \mdash ; where ( GM-FN ) They are quoted from the author 's paper , menlioned in S4 .
OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
Increments of the Arguments .
7 .
We now require the increments of the various arguments , corres ondino .
to the increments of and .
We denote by , . .
the same functions of X as , . .
are of and ; thus , if be the increment of , we have ; and so for the other magnitudes .
Since the relation holds for all values of and , we have .
We thus have - Now , the differences between and and , are small quantities of the order ; hence , when we are retaining only small quantities of the order on the hand side , we can replace by respectively ; and we find ilarly , the relation PROFESSOR A. R. FORSYTH ON THE FERENTIAL INyARIANTS holds for all values of and ; so that the laws of transformation for are the same as for , G. Hence Using the relation in the same way , we find Using the relation ' similarly , we find dS And so for the increments of the other fundamental magnitudes .
8 .
The increments of the derivatives of are required ; they can be obtained by the following method , differing from that which is adopted by Professor \amp ; Zcheck ; ORAWSKI .
Let and ?
become x and respectively , and let the consequent new values of X and be ; then OF A SURFACE , THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
where ' and 2 ' implies that and may not be zero together .
Similarly where with the same signification for 2 ' as before ; and thus , for all values of and we have Now , as the relation holds for all values of and , it follows that Let both sides be expanded in powers of and ; then coefficient of ' in the expansion of that the first power of alone is to be retained , we find this coefficient to be \ldquo ; ; the first summation 22 ' does not occur if , the second summation 22 ' does VOL. COI.\mdash ; A. 2 X not occur if in neither of them may and vanish ether .
Writing we have Proceeding similarly from the expressions for and , we find and NOTE .
\mdash ; As we now have the first increment of the quantities , and as the second increments are not required , the quantities on the right-hand sides can be replaced by , without aifecting the values of the first increments .
OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE .
9 .
In particular , we have \mdash ; - - .340 ESSOR A. ORSYTH ON INVARIANTS 10 .
We equire eessions for the increments of the derivativss of functions such , .
; for this purpose , we proceed as before .
We have ; and therefore coefficient of in sion of where is the coefficient of in , that is , in , where in the summation and do not vanish together and , if either or be zero , the corresponding term ceases to occur .
Writing we have which gives the required increments for derivatives of a function .
Similarly of course for the increments of the derivatives of all functions similar to NOTE.\mdash ; Just as in the expressions for the increments of the various derivatives of , we can replace , in the expressions for the increments of the various derivatives of a function , the various quantities on the right-hand sides by without affecting the values of the first increments .
As before , second increments are not needed for our purpose .
11 .
In particular , we have OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR EOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
12 .
A comparison of the expressions of the increments of the derivatives of on the one hand , and those of the derivatives of a typical function on the other , leads to one immediate inference as to the arguments that enter into the composition of a differential variant .
Suppose that such an invariant is required to involve derivatives of a function up to ordel in and.y combined ; the increments of these derivatives involve ( among others ) the quantities , . . .
; , . . .
The invariantive property requires that the terms involving these quantities must ( if they do not balance one another ) be balanced by other terms involving these same quantities ; and therefore derivatives of up to order in and combined must occur .
And conversely .
In particular , if derivatives of 40 of the third order occur in invariantive function , it must contain derivatives of of the second order .
Equations the tvariants .
13 .
The invariantive property is used , exactly as in 's application of method , to obtain partial differential equations of the first order satisfied by any invariantive function .
We proceed from an equation such as ; we substitute , in each of the arguments such as , where the proper value of bove for the various arguments ; we also write ; and then , according to LIE'S theory , we equate the coefficient of on the two sides .
The functions and are arbitrary ; and therefore , in this new equation , the coefficients of the various derivatives of and on the two sides are equal .
We thus obtain a umber of partial differential equations of the first order satisfied by The construction of the form of depends upon the manipulation of the equations .
14 .
The whole process will be sufficiently illustrated in its details if we construct algebraically independent aggregate of differential invariants which involve derivatives of two*functions and up to the third order inclusive .
In order to take full account of the increments of such deriyatives , it is desirable and necessary to retain derivatives of up to the second order and , in place of the derivatives of of that order , to retain the fundamental magnitudes of the second , the third , and the fourth orders .
Thus the invariantive function involves some or all of the quantities ; .
; ; ; ; , @ , ; ; Denoting any one of these arguments by , the invariantive , that is , , and therefore The form of the results indicates the form of the results when more than two functions occur .
Moreover , if more than two functions of the type of be considered , they are connected by relation .
OF A , AND SIGNIFICANCE .
for the respsctive for the spective arguments , and the coefficients of the various derivatives of and , we have the requisite partial differential equations .
They , , which come from the coefficients of respectively ; , ( L ) , which come from the coefficients of respectively ; , OF A , AN1 THEIR OMLTRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
, , , , , .346 PROFESSOR .
R. FORSYTH ON THE DIFFERENTIAL INVARIANTS come the coefficients of respectively ; and , , , , , , , which come from the coefficients of respectively .
15 .
Consider the set of equations to ; all the PoISSON-JACOBI conditions of coexistence are satisfied so that , in so far as the third derivatives of and and the second derivatives of are concerned , the set may be regarded as a complete JACOBTAN system .
The total number of variables occurring in the derivatives of is 4 , for the derivatives of of the third order , , . . . . .
of the second order , in all ; hence as the total number of equations is 8 , there will be nine algebraically independent solutions involving these 17 quantities .
When we integrate the set of equations in the usual manner , we find a set of nine solutions , apparently in their simplest form when given by OF A ACE , AND \mdash ; where , and Any functional combination of these nine quantities will satisfy the set of eight equations which have been considered , as will also any functional combination of the derivatives of !
and of orders lower than 3 , of the derivatives of of orders lower than 2 , and of , S , .
We therefore have to find functional combinations which will satisfy the remaining equations .
16 .
For this purpose , we make ; ; ; , the variables ; and we transform the set of equations .
, so that the derivatives of .
are taken with regard to these variables .
Denoting with the new yariable by for a moment , we have ' for all the quantities in the original equations ; the magnitude is zero if be not one of the new yariables .
The result of the transformation is to replace the set of equations .
by the set PROFESSOR A. R. FORSyTH ON THE DIFFERENTIAL INVARIANTS OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR IETRIC SIGNIFICANCE 17 .
A special case of these six equations is by ProfessolZoRAWSKI in his memoir already quoted , viz. , that in which there occurs a single function with its up to the second , and there are no tives or of ' than ) hrst and he ) independent solutions .
These :/ / Manifestly , independent solutions of the equations in the present case ; also , other three independent iven- by All these six solutions are ) end , nt of ) , 7 The ssoN conditions of coexistence of the six equations are satisfied either identically or in virtue of the eight equations to , which are definitely satisfied ; so that , taking account of the variables that occur in the derivatives of .
, the set of six equations is a complete system .
The numbel ' of these variables is 6 , the first of , . . .
second . . . .
, being , being in all ; hence the total number of aically independent solutions of the complete system of six equations is 15 .
Of these , we already possess six in , so that other nine are required .
The form of the equations suggests that there will be four solutions of the type , four of the type and one of the type ; which , when obtained , will be the necessary nine .
18 .
One mode of obtaining these solutions is as follows:\mdash ; We use the values of to eliminate from the second derivatives of and of ; the effect is .
cit. , PROFESSOR A. R. ORSYTH ON THE DIFFERENTIAL INyARIANTS to modify the form of the equations by removing from them all the terms that involve those derivatives .
The substituted derivatives with respect to do not occur\mdash ; a result only to be expected , because these quantities are simultaneous solutions of all the six equations .
Consequently , in any differential operations , the quantities behave like constants .
In order that where are functions of of the first atives of but are independent of the quantities and , may satisfy we must have In order that the same quantity may satisfy , we must have Similarly , the equation requires and the equation requires for .
The equation requires ior , and OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE , and the equaticm requires for , and We thus have 24 equations giving the atives of the four quantities with respect to .
Each of the four quantities is given by effecting the quadrature The esults are , , The solution in question remains a solution when it is multiplied by ; denoting this product by , we have Similarly we obtain where .
, above PROFESSOR A. .
FOR , SITH ON THE DIFFERENTIAL INyARIANTS , above , above Other four solutions are given by and there is a last solution given by .
Consequently , it follows that every simultaneous solution of the fourteen equations made up of the eight and of the six , is a functional combination of the fifteen quantities of the tities divatives with regard to which have not occurl.ed in those equations , , S , making.34 arguments in all What now is required is the algebraically independent aggregate of the functional combinations of these 34 arguments satisfying the remaining four rential equations . .
OF A SURFACE , AND THEII NIFICANCF .
19 .
As these equations , replace ( T. , ) by two of their sum and their difference .
The ' i , s .
The latter is V0L . .
PROFESSOR A. R. FORSYTH ON THE DIFFERENTIAL INVAltIANTS Of these four equations , , the first will be found to be satisfied for the various forms of that the other three , by the appropriate determination of the constant to be associated with each such form .
Also , is the condition to be satisfied in order that and may possess common solutions .
To obtain these common solutions , we proceed as follows .
Let the equations and be written Then by actual substitution we obtain the results Also and therefore , , We write and then these equations give ; , , ; OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
Similarly , we write ; and we find These quantities replace moreovel is a simultaneous solution of the equations .
What we require are the functional combinations of the quantities , S , making 33 arguments in all .
For this purpose , we transform the equations , so that these arguments may become the independent variables .
The process would be laborious but not intrinsically difficult , were it not that the effect of the operators and upon the various arguments has already been obtained ; and the results are 5 YTlI O INVARIANTS A SURFACE , AND IETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
Association nith 20 .
The expression of these equations at once associates the solution with known esults in the theory of the concomitants of a system of simultaneous binary forms .
The equations are the differential equations of the invariants of -stem of binary forms or , what is the same thing , they are the differential equations of the invariants and covariants of the system of binary forms , We therefore require an algebraically complete aggregate of this set of invariants and covariants .
It is to be noticed that the argument does not appear in the equations ( I ) ; so that it is a solution of the equations , and it must be associated with the required algebraically coml ) let aggregate of concomitants of the binary forms .
The tion s constitute a complete system , and the number of arguments which .
is 33 ; hence ) ebraically complete aggregate of solutions contains.30 solutions , which thus give the algebraically complete aggregate of concomitants of the system of binary forms .
This aggregate is know to be ( or to be equivalent to ) the following:\mdash ; the linear quantic , ; { he quadratic and its Hessian ; .
, . . . . . . . . . .
; . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . .
; .
, . . . . . . . .
; the cubic , its Hessian , and either its discriminant or its cubicovariant ; the cubic , its Hessian , and either its discriminant or its cubicovariant ; the cubic , its Hessian , and either its iscriminant or its cubicovariant ; the quartic , its Hessian , its quadrinvariant , and its cubinvariant ; together with the Jacobians of any one of the forms , say , with all the rest of the forms .
This makes up the requisite total of 30 .
The asyzygetic aggregate is , of course , vastly more extensive ; but for the present purpose it is only an ebraically independent aggregate that is wanted .
modifications in the latter are possible : what is necessary to secure is that any modification does not interfere with the algebraical completeness of the aggregate .
For instance , consider the set composed of , where in the asyzygetic system , there is all intermediate invariant ; we have , and therefore , in the algebraical aggregate , can be included when any other ( such as ) is excluded .
Such a change would be desirable if differential invariants , linear in the quantities , were required .
See a memoir by the author , 'American Journal of Mathematics , ' vol. 12 ( 1890 ) , SS17 , 22 , 30 .
OF A ANI ) GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCL .
I. , we can the necessary members , the sel which follows:\mdash ; ( ii .
) ( iii .
) \mdash ; \mdash ; ] ( iy .
) EG ( vii .
) EM \mdash ; \mdash ; EN \mdash ; FN \mdash ; ] ( viii .
) LN \mdash ; , or I ?
EN \mdash ; ( ix .
) ( xi .
) , or ( xii .
) ( xiii .
) ) , or I ( xvii .
) . .
or ) , ( xviii .
) ( xix .
) ( xx .
) ( xxi .
) , or , ( xxii .
) ( xxiii .
) ( xxiv .
) , or , ( xxvi .
) ( xxvii .
) ( xxviii .
) ( xxix .
) I ( xxx .
) ( xxxi .
) ) 22 .
It is still necessary to satisfy equation .
This will be effected as follows : OFESSOR A. R. sith ON THE DIFFERENTIAL INVARIANTS involves and , it must be homogeneous in them , say of degree ; when involves and , it ust be homogeneous in them , say of degree ?
; when involves , it must be homogeneous in them , say of degree ; likewise for of degree ; likewise , say of degree ; for , S , , say of degree ; for , say of degree ; for , say of degree ; ) , say of degree ; for , say of degree ; and for , of degree ) rovided the value of tlJe index of the invariant , is given This relation determines the indices of the ) system , a , s ] lows : Index 1 , ?
; Index and I ; Index 3 , , ?
; Index , ; Index 5 , , , ) ; Index 6 , , , and , , ; Index 7 , ; Index , ) ; Index , ; Index , : Index , .
23 .
All these are elative inyariants , that is to say , when the same of new variables is formed as the fnJlction f is of the old variables , then is the index of , and ) ) .
In order have the absolute invariants , it is sufficient to divide each of them by a proper of any one fhem .
For this choose ; we can regard V as of index umity , and therefore it will be sufficient to divide the relative invariants by a power of V equal to its index .
We therefore have the set of 30 absolute invariants , given by OF A FACE , AND THEIR GEOMETPuIC 3 ( il , , , and ) , ?
and ' , , I , ' and and These thirty differential invariants constitute the complete aggregate lcrms of which all , involving some or all of the derivatives of the fundamental magnitudes , up to the second order inclusive , as well as the magnitudes themselves , ( ii .
) the magnitudes , S , , ( iii .
) and the derivatives of two functions and up to third order inclusive , bc eirpressed .
But it is to be noted that this inference is concerned solely with the partial differential equations , and it assumes that the various quantities , and their derivatives are independent of one another ; if an relations should subsist , owing to the intrinsic nature of the magnitudes , then the number of invariants in the above complete aggregate will be diminished by the number of relations .
Now one such relation is known ; it is the relation commonly associated with name , and it expresses in terms of , and their up to the second order inclusive .
But is in the foregoing set ; and , as will be seen later ( S 35 ) in the course of the geometrical interpretation , we have , so that the number must be by unity .
Accordingly , the complete of , involving thoe gnitudes up to the specified order of derivation , contains 29 ; in terms of these members , other , involving th same il des ?
to the specified of crxn be cxpressed ) raically .
24 .
As an illustration of the remark in S 6 , we can obtain MINDIN expression for the geodesic curvature , by Professor \amp ; Zcheck ; ORAWSKI as an invariant .
Let be the equation of the curve , then so that , .
6.3 . .
\mdash ; A. .3 PROFESSOR A. li .
FOIiSYTH ON THE DIFFERENTIAL INVARIANTS Now is an invariant , as also is ; hence is an invariant , say , so that - according to MINDING'S expression for the geodesic curvature ; or the geodesic curvature of the curve is the invariant 25 .
It is possible to make there inferences from the results .
Thus we can settle the algebraically complete aggregate of invariants up to the order of derivatives retained , when those invariants are required which involve derivatives of , and only one function , say .
They manifestly constitute the aggregate , complete up to the order specified , of all the functions that remain invariant when the surface is deformed in any way without tearing or stretching , account being taken of a particular curve , and the invariance persistin through all changes of the independent variables of the surface .
This aggregate , algebraically complete up to the order specified , consists of the nine members and and the first five of which were given by Professor \amp ; Zcheck ; ORAWSKI , who considered the specific aggregate only up to one order lower .
OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
26 .
If we require the aggregate of invariants of this class involving derivatives of up order and derivatives of up to order , the number of members in that algebraically complete aggregate can be obtained .
The total number of members is ; it is composed quantities which do not involve the derivatives of , these quantities being called Gaussian invariants of deformation , and their number having been determined* by ZOBAWSKI ; and of quantities , each of which involves derivatives of .
To make up the latter aggregate of quantities , we need ( in addition to the binary forms already used ) other binary forms of orders 4 , 5 , .
, ; among these , the binary form of order ( for all values of ) has and for its variables , and its coefficients are linear in the derivatives of up to order inclusive ; and the members , that would occur in the simplest expression of the aggregate through the existence of the binary form of order would be the quotients ( by proper powers of V ) of the binary form itself , of the ( HERMITE'S ) associated covariants , and of the Jacobian of and the binary form , making in all .
Thus the total number up to order is the number in question .
27 .
If we require the aggregate of differential invariants , which involve derivatives of up to order and derivatives of a single function up to order , the number in that aically complete aggregate can be obtained as follows .
We can replace the derivatives of of the specified orders by the introduction of the fundamental magnitudes of orders 3 , 4 , . .
, defined as the coefficients in the various powers of and in the complete expression of the quantities , , ' where is the radius of curvature of the normal section through the tangent defined by ' and the arc-differentiation of ' is taken along the geodesic When , the system of binariants is composed of three quadratic forms with their three discriminants , a cubic form with its set of two associated covariants , and *In his memoir , S13 .
It will be noted that in the aggregate in S22 is a Gaussian invaria1tt of deformation , and so is included among the quantities which do not involve For the significance of this remark , see S31 , post .
SITH ON THE NTIAL INVARIANTS of one of the qnadratic forms with other two quadratic forms and with the cubic form , in all .
To include the next higher order given by , we need a cubic form with its set of two associated covariants , a quartic form with its set of three associated covariants , and the Jacobian of each of the forms with the originally selected quadratic form , being 9 in all .
And so on in succession : the total number of binariants is With these must be associated the quantities that do not involve the del.ivatives of 40 , these being the Gaussian invariants of deformation ; hence the total number is But these are relative invariants ; each of them must be divided by the appropriate of V so that , as one of them is and the quotient is unity , thus making the function no longer an invariant of the surfaCe , the number of absolute invariants is .
28 .
Lastly , if we require the aggregate of differential invariants which involve of up to order , and derivatives of two functions up to order , the number can be obtained in a similar manner .
As in S27 , we replace the derivatives of of the specified orders by the fundamental itudes of orders 3 , 4 , .
, .
The algebraically complete aggregate of relative invariants of the surface up to the orders specified is composed of two portions .
The first , includes the quantities which do not involve the derivatives of and , these being the Gaussian invariants of deformation , as before .
The second is the algebraical]y complete regate of the system of concomitants of a set of binary forms , each divided by a proper power of V in order to give rise to an invariant of the surface .
This set of binary forms contains 1 quantic of order 1 , 4 quantics 2 , 1 quantic .
being 3 in all .
With them must be coupled ( a ) their associated nnts , the number of which is OF A SURFACE , AND SIGNIFICANCE .
; and ( b ) the Jacobian of tqny one of the quantics with each of the rest , in all .
Thus the tale of the concomitants of the binary forms But these are relative invariants ; each of them must be divided by the appropriate power of V , so that , as one of them is , and the quotient is unity , thus making the function no longer an invariant of the surface , the number of absolute invariants from this source is .
Thus the required egate of invariants of the kind specified up to order is , in all , equal to 29 .
But all these numbel .
S are subject to diminution by as many units as there are algebraically independent relations among the invariants , which do not occur merely through algebraical forms , but arise through intrinsic relations associated with the general theory of surfaces .
One such relation , being GAUSS'S equation , has already been mentioned ; so that the number 2 would certainly be diminished by unity .
It might happen that certain other combinations of the fundamental nitudes of the various orders could be expressed in terms of and their derivatives , the combinations being invariants of the set of binary forms , and the expressions in terms of , and their derivatives being inyariants of deformation .
Each such relation would diminish the number by a single unit .
So far as I am aware , GAUSS'S equation is the only relation of the type indicated which has already been established ; but there is reason ( S56 ) for surmising that other relations of that type do actually subsist .
PART II .
GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE 0F THE INVARIANTS .
30 .
The algebraically complete aggregate of the inyariants of a giyen surface and of any two curves drawn upon it has been proyed to be determinable by the development of LIE'S method , as used by Professor \amp ; Zcheck ; ORAWSKI for the invariants of The actual determination of the members of those regates , which belong to the lowest orders , has been made .
Each such invaliant has a geometric significance , ( i6 PROFESSOR A. R. FORSyTH ON THE DTFFERENTIAL INVARIANTS and the significance of some of them is known ; we proceed to consider this aspect of the invariants .
In dealing with binariants , several methods are possible .
There is the symbolical method .
There is the method dependent upon the use of canonical forms for the various functions ; the complete expression of each binariant must be used through each operation ; in the present instance , the canonical form would arise by taking and as the independent variables on the surface .
* There is the method that depends upon the characteristic property of binariants , by which the leading term alone , being sufficient to determine the binariant uniquely , is used to replace the binariant .
The last of these methods will be used .
31 .
We denote by an arc of the curve , so that implies differentiation along the curve ; and we denote by differentiation in a direction on the surface perpendicular to the curve .
Where no confusion will arise , we shall use . . .
in place of , , . .
; and so with quantities other than In constructing the fundamental quantities of order higher than the second , normal section through the tangent to is drawn ; successive derivatives of the curvature of this section at the point are constructed , and the values of the second derivatives of and are those connected with the geodesic property at the point .
Accordingly , it is effectively the geodesic tangent to that is drawn ; we shall denote by an arc of this geodesic , so that implies differentiation along the geodesic .
As the curve and the geodesic touch one another , we have ' when the quantities relate to tangential properties only ; but is not zero when the quantities relate to contact of higher orders .
Thus ; but , where 1 is the circular curvature of the geodesic tangent , is not zero .
* This method is used by DARBOUX , 'Theorie generale des Surfaces , ' vol. 3 , p. 203 .
Seo the papsr quoted in S4 .
OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
The Independent gnitudes connected the Curve .
32 .
Various magnitudes connected with the curve are required ; we take circular curvature , curvature of torsion , the geodesic tangent , geodesic curvature , radius of the osculating sphere , angle between the normal to the surface and the principal normal of , and ' where is the normal the point of ( from the curve ) Further , we write m'x'y ' with the customary notation for ; then ives the asymptotic lines , giyes the lines of curyature , sic lines .
Moreoyer , where and are the mean curvature and the specific curvature of the surface at the point , and being the principal radii of curvature .
We have the relations* * See STAHL und KOMMERIiLL , 'Die Grundformelu der allgemeinen Flachentheorie , ' S 14 , for some of them .
' in the last two equations and are used in place of and , to which they are equal respectively .
The relation at once gives ; and we also have so that , and are expressible in terms of and of their derivatives .
' 33 .
As regards and , we have ; and therefore .
' Next , differentiating along a direction in the surface that is perpendicular to the OF A SURFACE , AND TRIC SIGNIFICANCL .
tangent to , we take the direction determined by and as being ndicular to the direction determined by ; hence Moreover ; and therefore , , the quantities in the brackets in the last expressions bein the quantities and of S 15 .
of the Simptest 34 .
Using these results , we can at once obtain the interpretation of several of the invariants .
We have V and therefore Again , ; and therefore by the relations in S32 , we have Also EM \mdash ; . . .
; VOL. CCI .
\mdash ; A. 3 and therefore , by the relations in S32 , we have The result of gives ' and therefore , also by the relations in S32 , we have Also so that ; and @ , so that .
35 .
Certain invariants occur as belonging to the surface , independent of all curves such as .
Of these , the most important is ; its value is given by But , as is well known , we also have so that we have .
This is a relation among the differential invariants , and it is due to the intrinsic nature of the quantities ; accordingly , the number of algebraically independent invariants up to the present order must ( S23 ) be diminished by unity , on account of the preceding relation .
It was noted , in S21 , that and I are alternatives in a complete OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
system , when ) , ) are retained ; as a matter of fact , the relation subsists .
Now the significance of I is known : we ] Jave Accordingly , we substitute the values that have been obtained , and we find , again the well-known relation giving the torsion of a geodesic at any poin .
This torsion vanishes when the geodesic is a tangent to a line of curvature .
Interpretation of the Remaiming with 36 .
We require the derivatives of with respect to the arc ; for this purpose we shall use the property already quoted \mdash ; that a binariant is uniquely determined by its leading term which , in the present instance , is the term involving the highest power of .
Writin generally we have . . .
so that . . .
Firstly , let , so that becomes ; then , on reduction , we find consequently Secondly , let , so that becomes ; then , on reduction , we find . .
, and consequently Thirdly , let , so that becomes ; then , on reduction , we find and consequently The first of these gives and the third of them , taking account of the value of which has ah.eady been obtained , gives .
The second of them can also be used to identify , because all the other quantities occurring in the relation have been identified ; the value is Substituting the earlier value on the left-hand side , we have ( after a slight reduction ) being an illustration of the remark in S 31 , and showing that in general the rate of change of the curvature of a normal section is not the same along the curve and the geodesic , both of which touch that section .
The result can also be written in the OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
with the earlier significance for , and is given by ; and another form is .
We require tives of some of the binary quadratics with respect to an arc in the surface normal to the curve ; for this purpose , we proceed as in S36 .
We take and we have V . . . . . . .
; and so , after some transformation and reduction , we find . . . . . . . .
Firstly , let , so that becomes .
The coefficient of the first term in the earlier aggregate is and therefore that aggregate is The coefficient of the first term in the later gregate is and therefore that aggregate is Consequently and therefore PROFESSOR A. R. FORSYTH ON THE DIFFERENTIAL INVARIANTS rting the values of the invariants that are already known , we have B. ' and therefore I .
Secondly , let that becomes .
Proceeding in the same way , we find Inserting the values of those invariants which have already been obtained , have ( after a little reduction ) Thirdly , let ) , , so that becomes .
Proceeding in the same way as for , we find .
Now we have retained I in our aggregate , in place , so that the latter must be removed from the foregoing expl.ession : as the relation holds , we have .
Inserting the values of those invariunts which have already been obtained , and reducing the equation , we ultimately have -J It may be noted , in passing , that the above equation , which gives the relation between I and , leads to the expression for in the form 38 .
Again , it is known that OF A AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
and there fore say , where is a covariant ?
the system with index easily seen to be equal to 3 .
Now it is easy to verify that and therefore that .
Consequently is expressible in terms of the members of the system ; when the expression is substituted above , the result enables us to obtain the value of .
But it is simpler to modify the original system of concolnitants in S21 : we can replace in that aggregate by , and the modified aggregate still is complete .
For the significance of , we have Further , we have say , where is a covariant of the system with index easily seen to be 4 .
It is easy to verify that EQ \mdash ; , and therefore Consequently is expressible in terms of members of the system ; when the expression is substituted above , the result enables us to obtain the value of But , as in the last case , it is simpler to modify the original systenl of concomitants in S 21 : we can replace in that aggregate by , and the modified aggregate still is complete .
For the significance of , we have .
R. SITH ON THE DIFFER NTIAL INVARIANTS An for the of 39 .
It may be remarked ( and it is easy to verify the statement ) that , if we desire an algebraically complete aggregate of invariants , involving derivatives of alone up to order 2 at the utmost , and deriyatives of up to order 1 , and the fundamental magnitudes of the first three orders and no other quantities , such an aggregate is composed of or , , or , or , or or , and ) Every other invariant of the surface involving only the same quantities that occur in these invariants can be expressed algebraically in terms of the members of this aggregate .
The geometrical significance of each of the members has been obtained ; if , therefore , the geometrical significance of any additional invariant is known , the algebraic equation expressing the invariant in terms of the retained aggregate will express a property of the surface and the curve .
Such additional invariants are provided by and ; they should accordingly lead to properties of the surface and the curve .
Relatio 40 .
We have .
But ( LQ \mdash ; MP)2 , and { ( EQ\mdash ; FP ) \mdash ; ( EM\mdash ; FL ) } ; hence , taking accoullt of the lelation among the leading terms of the various concomitants , we have .
OF A , AND .377 Consequently .
so expressed in terms of the enlbers of the J etained aggregate .
' the values ) invariants in the equation and dividing out by after , we find a property which can be changed also into othel forms , the relation in , which expresses terms and other nitudes .
Effectingr this ange , substituting ' , their in terms of derivatives of , we call express the relation in the fornl and or , what is the same thing , Proceeding to construct the other iaut t was gested in , we have Let denote the leading coefficient 011 the -hand side , so that \mdash ; PFN ; VOL. CCI .
\mdash ; A. 3 PROFESSOR A. R. ON THE DIFFF , NTIAL TNVARIANTS and let denote of , ) , so that .
it is 1lot difficult to establish identity \mdash ; Noting that the tities on the -hand side leading of , we chance the identity into a relation covariants ; and the result , on divisicn throughout by ?
is \ldquo ; , so that is expressed in of the of the retained aggregate Substitutin the values of the invariants in the equation and dividing out by after substitution , we find Effecting the same transfol.mation as before .
by taking we find Identification of the in S23 , some of the System .
41 .
We proceed now to the identification of the invariants of the next higher order of derivatives ; these involve derivatives of of the third , derivatives of of the third order , and the fundamental magnitu of the fourth order .
The method used is similar to that adopted in the preceding sections ; we form derivatives , OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC regard to and , of the invariants ah.eady in tel.preted , identify the new forms by means of member of the complete aggregate , and thus we obtain the interpretation of member .
Accordingly , we shall usually state the results without the calculations , the laborious character of which is )reatly lened by using the leading terms of the only .
We have , ?
Inserting the yalues of the invariants wfiicl ] occur in this equation , and using the relation obtained in , we have this easily leads to the relation ' on using the expression for in S 40 .
The fact that the value of is difFerent from zero is another illustration of the remark in S 36 .
We also have wJ- , when we substitute for tive invariants and reduce , we obtain an expression for in the form A. THE ) NTIAL IIANT rtlld the expression ) there Jdified by , the value of 1 iven in S 4 4 As of the mean curvature of the surface at and ( , and tities ( on construct quantities It that , the second and the tbird of these , we tain the value of ) ' .
' We Let ; tbelt } \mdash ; we have ? ?
Hence invariant is ressif l in terms ) the melnbers of the system ; when the sion is snbstituted result us to obtain the value of .
But it is simpler to modify original system of concomitants in S21 ; we can replace in aggregate by , and the modified aggregate is still .
The index of is manifestly 4 .
When the various values } ) stituted , we find 43 .
We have OF A SURFACL , AND Let ; then as , Consequently is expressible of lnelJlbe of the system and of ) ; and is expressible in terms of , I , .
When the various expressions are ) stituted , we can the system of concomitants in S 21 ; we rep lace ) I , by and the modified gregate is still complete .
The expression then gives the significance of , the index of is values of the invariants already interpreted are substituted , find Similarly , lay ; and thus we obtain anothel in the form Comparing the two yalues ollce have all expression for d-H ds 44 .
We in the same way ] ' the systelm we introduce a covariant of index ; : this ) is expressible in terms , as and I have already been replaced by and we replace by leaving the modified aggregate still complete .
Then we have which , after substitution the known invariants and some reduction , leads to an expression for in ) form giving also the value of an invariant .
45 .
The expressions for ' ' can be in another ; it will be sufficiently illustrated by constructing the first of them .
From the expressions for , in S 38 , we find the following by differentiation : LN where Knowing the values of and , we form ' and then we have OF A SURFACE , ANY ) OMETRIC STGNIFICANCE .
The actual values are found to be , where and on the right-hand sides have the values given in 815 .
Now ; when we substitute the values of the various quantities and reduce , we have the same value as before S 42 ) .
Again , we that Hence , as we find , after substitution , .
Consequently we have * See the paper by the author , quoted in S4 .
SYTII ) NTIAL INyARIANTS another illustration of the .
It may similarly be proved that These particular of the theorem , which can similarly be established : If denote cmy on the the the ) through the point , 16 .
to the identification of he }( and hich involve coefficients of } construct clnd .
V Let riants be denoted by ) , respectively , so that Then can ) used to eplace H in the egate as replaced , and can be used to place in the aggregate as , replaced , in each case without affecting the of the .
The index of is 7 ; that of is 8 .
Their significanc is givell by , and 47 .
We have ' OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
WheIl substitution is made for the various invariants , and the reduction is effected , we find which are relations obtained eal.liel .
( S 40 ) .
They show that and be expressed in terms of the other magnitudes .
We also have All the that occur in this relation are ; when substitute their values and reduce the resulting expression , we find This result , and the corres o result obtained for in S43 , are special cases of the theorem , which can be by using the invariantive forms : If denote , uhich is mected with any point on the cc the expression of wh.ich is of the through the poinnt , then 48 .
Similarly ; The of is not independent of the curve ; but is one of the fundamental quantities for expression of properties of the curve , and its expression is an irresolublo variabls .
after substitution and reduction , we have Also , we have ; thence a value of ) is obtained in the form Comparing this value of with the value that was obtained in S 41 , we find Lastly , we have V When we substitute the values of the invariants in this expression and reduce the result , we find It is to be noted , from the results obtained in this section , that and are expressed in terms of the other magnitudes retained ; or , if we choose , we can the last relation as determining in terms of the other magnitudes retained .
OF A AND THEIR GOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCF .
of Two Fomctions .
49 .
Among the aggregate of invariants set out in S 23 , there still remain nine as yet uninterpreted ; but their expressions involve derivatives of the function Five out of these nine involve derivatives of no higher order than those which occur in the invariants interpreted in SS34-38 .
In order to obtain their tion , it is convenient to associate with them invariants which depend upon alone and bear the same relation to alone as some of those already preted b to alone ; and then the complete rate can be simplified by , some of the original forms by some of the associated fornls .
For this purpose , let ; then we establish ( and it is easy to yerify ) the equations The firffi of these equations shows that can be regarded as known ; it is not an independent invariant but , if we wished , we could replace in the complete aggregate without affecting the completeness .
This change will not be made ; we shall retain as a quantity convenient for other purposes and alternative to in the aggregate .
The second and the third equations , combined so as to eliminate , show that can be garded as known ; it is not independent invariant but , if we wished , we could replace by in the complete without ffecting the completeness .
This change will be made .
The fourth and the fifth equations , combined so as to eliminate , show that can be regarded as known ; it is not an independent invariant but , if we wished , we could replace by in the complete aggregate without affecting the completeness .
This change also will be made .
The five invariants that remained for interpretation were ' after the changes that have been made , the five are ' , ' , , of which the last may also be written I .
The interpretation of the first two of these is easily obtained ; for the interpretation of the remaining three , which involve derivatives of but not of , the results of earlier interpretations can be used .
50 .
For the purpose of the interpretation , we need certain geometric properties of the curve .
Let denote an elementary arc along the curve , and an element along the normal to the curve ; and let Further , let denote the circular curvature of the geodesic tangent to and the curvature of torsion of that tangent ; also , let denote the geodesic curvature of .
Then , , stand to in precisely the same relation as , to ; and therefore ' Moreover , we have ' so that , if be the angle at which and intersect , we have ' OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
and therefore Also and therefore AB V We can regard the quotient of the last two invariants as giving the angle ; and we can regard the sum of their squares as the magnitude A. Clearly a relation already used ; it may be further used to replace by 51 .
The general theory shows that all other invariants , which involve deriyatiyes of and up to the second order inclusive , derivatives of of the first order , and the fundamental magnitudes of the first three orders , can be expressed in terms of the aggregate already retained , composed of the eleven invariants selected in S 39 and the just identified , .
:\mdash ; or , It is not without interest to illustrate the property by one or two simple examples .
Consider the circular curvature of the geodesic tangent to ; after the result in S34 , it manifestly will be given by ; according to the theory , it ought to be expressible in terms of the invariants retained .
Take ; then we have the equations ; and therefore When the values of all the invariants are substituted , the preceding relation ( after mere simplification and division throughout by ) becomes ' a relation can be vel.ified independently by means of theorem on the curvature of a norlnal section and of the expression in S 35 for the torsion of the geodesic tangent .
Similarly for the curvature of torsion of the geodesic tangent to ; after the result in S 34 , it manifestly will be givell by According to the theory , it also ought to be expressible in terms of the retained .
Take EM \mdash ; FN \mdash ; ; then we have the equations and therefore which gives an expression terms of the invariants .
When we substitute the values of all the invariants and divide out by , we find sin That some results of this kind , connecting and , should exist , can easily be seen .
When and are given , is determined by the inclination of to a line of curvature ; being given , we then know the inclination of to that line of curvature , and so is known .
Similarly for some result connecting and As a last illustration of this kind , consider the invariantive expressions for and Let and be the invariants corresponding to ( and , so that OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC S[GNIFICANCE .
; then Now we have the equations which are easily established ; them the of the invariants that occur , we find ( ou removin a factor ) , the relations .
which are the ordinary differential relations for transference from directions* and to and , when the subject of operation is a function of position only and involves no properties of tangency and no properties of contact of order higher than the first .
But for a function of position ( and , fortiori , for a function which involves properties of contact of the first order or of higher orders ) , the operators and are not interchangeable .
Thus , in particular , and are not equal to one another , except for special curves ; an expression for their difference has already been obtained .
52 .
It still remains to identify the four invariants , , , which involve the derivatives of both and .
Instead of proceeding to obtain their values , we use the method adopted in S 49 ; we replace them by four equivalent invariants involving derivatiyes of only , and the change does not affect the completeness of the aggregate .
These four invariants are * The value of shows that the direction of falls within the angle between and PROFESSOR A. R. FORSyTH ON THE DIFFERENTIAL INVARIANTS We then modify this set of four , and replace and by and where ; and the set , replacs , ) , in the aggregate , which remains complete after the change .
The set of equations , which exhibit the equivalence of the four inserted forms to the four ejected forms , is similar to the corresponding set in S 42 ; it is more complicated because the groundforms are of the third order .
The geometric significance of the four inserted forms can be obtained from the consideration that they stand related to the curve exactly as ) , to the curve .
Adopting the notation of S 51 , we thus have , , All other properties of the curve up to the order retained can be expressed in terms of the invariants of the aggregate ; the examples given in S51 will be a sufficient illustration of the remark .
Aggregate for a Single Cur to tloe Order 53 .
The 29 inyariants in the preceding set have a closer affinity to the curve than to the curve , the chief reason bein that the first derivatives of were made the variables for the binary forms .
By taking the first derivatives of for these variables an equivalent set of 29 invariants could be obtained , having a closer affinity to the curve than to the curve .
And it would be possible to modify each of these two sets , so as to construct a new equivalent set of 29 , symmetrically related to the two curves .
All that is necessary in each modihcation is to secure that the retained aggregate remains algebraically complete .
Out of the set of 29 invariants retained , there are 20 which are not affected by the curve in their expression ; and therefore we infer that all the differential invariants of a surface and a curve upon the surface , involving derivatives of up to the third order inclusive , involving the magnitudes their derivatives up to the second order inclusive , involving also ths fundamental OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR IETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
tudes of the second , the third , and the fourth , can be expressed algebraically in terms of an algebraically complete This is composed of 20 quantities , each divided by an appropriate er ; the sections quoted the significance of the espective invariants .
These quantities are as follows:\mdash ; OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
.395 The various indices of these quantities , being the powers of V by which they must be divided to become absolute Index 2 , ; Index 3 , , ; Index 4 , , , ; Index 5 , , , ; Index 6 , ; Index 7 , ; Index 8 , , 54 .
It will be seen from these forms that all the invariants retained are linear in all the quantities , S , which occur in them .
This property facilitates the expression of any other invariant in terms of the various members ; thus and so for others .
Moreoyer , in the invariants which contain linearly , the effect is that the derivatives of of the second order ( being the highest that occurs ) are contained linearly ; and in those in val.iants which contain linearly , the effect is that the derivatives of of the third order ( being the highest order that occurs ) are contained linearly , as well as those of the second order .
Moreover , the forms can be used to obtain the value of any given invariant ; all that is necessary for this purpose is to obtain the expression of the invariant in terms of the members of the selected aggregate , and to substitute the values of the members that occur .
Thus , consider the simultaneous invariant when expressed terms of the members of the aggregate , it is equal to A. R. FORSYTH ON THI DIFFERENTIAL INVARIANTS and the value of the latter expression is In this way the actual values of a large number of the invariants belonging to the syzygetic aggregate can be obtained .
The asyzygetic aggregate of two cubics is known .
The asyzygetic aggregate , arising when a quadratic is associated with system asyzygetically complete in itself , is also known ; so that the asyzygetic aggregate belonging to be obtained by the application of known theorems .
Further , the ygetic aggregate a cubic and quartic known , so that the asyzygetic aggregate could be obtained for , and also for .
But , so far as I am aware , the asyzygetic aggregate of either two cubics and one quartic , or a cubic and any system asyzygetically complete in itself , is not known ; as soon as either is known , the results could be applied to obtain the asyzygetic aggregate for , that is , the complete system of concomitants in terms of which any rational integral invariant can be expressed as a rational integral function .
Independenf .
55 .
As regards the quantities , which have seryed to assign the geometrical significance of the several invariants , some inferences can be drawn from the results obtained .
Denoting by the angle between the curve and the line of curvature connected with , we have so that not than three of the quantities , , are independent .
For purposes of expression , we have retained \mdash ; H. There are also the quantities and To the order of derivatives which occur in the invariants that have been constructed , the geometric magnitudes , might be expected to occur in the values of the invariants , are as follows:\mdash ; the of I But ) :dl ) } can be retained as independent nlagni .
tudes .
it was proyed that , ; so that the first deriyatives of consequently also the second ( and higher ) derivatives , are expressible in terms of the derivatives of the other quantities Again , in SS 41 , , 47 it has been shown that the quantities d-H expressible in terms of the derivatives of the order ; so that it is sufficient to retain d- , , and reject Further , in S 41 , it was proved that It is in DARBOUX'S ' Theory gen6ra1e des Surfaces , ' vol. 2 , p. 360 , that the quantity which occurs in the first of the tions , is the same for two cves thnt the same tangent .
and the values of and have been given in SS 36 , 41 ; hence it is unnecessary to retain ' .
We therefore retain the quantities , , being 20 in all ; their association with the 20 ebraically independent differential invariants set out in S 53 has already been made .
56 .
These results would seem to have an important bearing when we proceed to the next higher order of derivatives .
As is rejected from the aggregate and \mdash ; of quantities , the quantities and will also be rejected ; also , as is expressible by quantities of lower order , the quantities and will be rejected ; thus , in this order , the on lie derivatives of to be retained are four in number .
Moreover , these four may reduce to two ; for the first may be OF A SURFACE , AND THEIR GEOMETRIC SIGNIFICANCE .
equivalent to the cted , while the second and the third may be equivalent to one another .
Similarly , the only derivatives of to be retained are , four in number ; and these may reduce to two .
There are six derivatives of : ' ' ' ' which may reduce to four ; and there are four rivatives of .
: , which may reduce to three .
Hence there are , in all , eighteen new geometrical quantities arising through the inclusion of derivatives of the next higher order ; and these eighteen quantities may reduce to eleven .
Now the number of differential inva.riants , which involve derivatives of up to order and the corresponding quantities of proper order , is by S27 ; and this number is certainly subject to diminution by 1 unit , as explained at the of , so that it is .
When , this is 33 ; and we know that there are 20 invariants for ; so that 13 new invariants are introduced by the rential equations for the new order .
It has been indicated that there may be only 11 new geometrical quantities available for their expression ; if so , the inference would be that there are two algebraic relations among these 13 .
These relations are outside the differential equations ; and the only cause from which they could arise would be owing to the intrinsic significance of the magnitudes .
As there actually is differential invariant of deformation of this order ( that is , a function involving and their derivatives up to the third order , and no other quantities ) , the obvious suggestion is that it would behave like the invariant of the lower order , due to GAUSS , and would be expressible in terms of invariants in the binariant system composed of the fundamental magnitudes ; but this inference is only a suggestion , and cannot be regarded as an established result .
: added , 12 May , 1903 .
After the manuscript of this .
had been sent to the Royal Society but the memoir itself had been read , I succeeded in definitely establishing the inference suggested at the end of S56 .
The necessary calculations are long and are of the ZORAWSKI , , p. 31 .
same general character as those in SS14-22 ; their aim is to obtaiu the one solution , other than and of the twenty-eight partial rential equations satisfied by erential iiants of deformation , which are of order not higher than three .
The mode of dealing with such a system of equations has been amply illustrated in Part I. the memoir ; accordingly , only the results of the analysis will be given .
We denote by quantities defined in S6 ; and we write these being simultaneous solutions of the eighteen equations , which correspond to the vanishing of the derivatives of and of order 4 and of order 3 in the various arguments ( S13 ) .
Further , we write \mdash ; - - \mdash ; \mdash ; \mdash ; .
OF A SUFcFACE , AND THEIR Also , we write Then a expression for the of the third order is found to be This expression can be modified by means of the relation ( S35 ) Dividinoo both sides by .
and the derivative with to , we find ( on the relations in S6 , and after reduction ) that we have say .
similarly from the derivative with regard to , we have say .
It thus appears that the ations of cmd their up to the third order , by , are of the } gnitudes of the second and the order .
Moreover , dropping the numerical factor 64 , we have expression for the differential of of ) third ( say I ) in the form By the theory in the preceding memoir , this invariant ( which now involves only fundamental nitudes of the first three orders and none of their derivatives ) ought to be in terms of the membsrs of the system set out in S53 .
, , we find ' VOL. CCI.\mdash ; A. 3 402 PROF .
A. R. FORSyTH ON THE DIFFERENTIAL INVARIANTS OF A SURFACE .
When the geometric values of the several invariants are substituted , we find ; and therefore which is the geometric of rential invariant of deformation of the third order .
Its expression appears to involve association with the curve ; but the relations in S 51 show that the association is the same for all curves , so that the quantity is a function solely of position on the surface , being the sum of the squares of the first derivatives of along any two perpendicular directions along the surface .
]

