IV .
" Ott the Effects prcoduced in 1Lhumnan Blood-corpuscles by Sherry Wine , &amp;c. " By W-ILLIAAI AIm0soN , Esq. , F.R.S.g Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians , Lon-don .
Received Septewber 10 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) the author has f'ountid that whent a stmiall drop of fresh blood is placed beside a similar drop of sherry wine on a slip of glass , and viewed with the mnicroscope , after being covered as usual with a thin piece of glass , certain changes are seen to take place in the blood as it minigles with the wine , which are thus described:"In those parts where the wine is mingling with the blood-at the outer edges of the mass-various altered corpuscles will be seen .
They float in the fluid , separated from each other , having Inow no loniger any disposition to adhere together in rolls .
Their outlines are altered , and sundry markings appear in their interior .
After a short time-perhaps ten minutes , sometimes soonier-inumerous corpuscles will be observed throwing out matter from their interior two , five , or teni molecular spots fringing their circumfereniee .
Some of these molecules grow larger and seem coloured ; others of them elongate irnto tails or filaments , which frequently attain to an extraordinary length , and wave about in a very remarkable manner .
They all terminate , at the extremity farthest from the corpuscle , in a round globular enlargemenit .
Asingle corpuscle may very frequently be seen with five or six of these tails .
Dnuring the observation of ' these phenoniena , numerous molecular particles are seen continlually passing f roml the corpuscles ; they ' float about in , and disturb the transparency of the fluid : moreover , they have an extremely vivid movement .
" At the expiration of half an hour , many of the tails or filaments are seen assuming the form of a necklace of beads ; and those also , separating from the corpuLscles , float about with a singular iildependeent movement in the fluid .
" When blood is si-milarly mingled with a fluid consisting of two parts of sherry wine and one part of a solution made with a grain and a half of common salt and a grain of bicarbonate of soda to half a fluid ounce of water , the transparency of the fluid part of the blood is not altered , " but the corpuscles are changed in appearance , and the tails or filaments which are now seen issuing from them are generally thicker and much more conspicuous than when the wine alone is used .
The molecules which separate from the corpuscles are larger , aincl the tails which break away from the corpuscles upon any slight motion of the fluid , present various dumb-bell , necklace-like , serpentine , globular , and other shapes .
" Under particular but accidentally produced conditions of the niingled fluids , the author has " repeatedly seen the tails suddenly retract , not into the interior of the corpuscle , but into a globular ball at its side ... ... .Sometimes the tail shortens to only half its length , becoming in a correspon(ding degree thicker .
" The tail in thus shorteining may become bulged in the middle of its length , exhibiting at that part a globular or discoid enlargement .
This globule or disc may then burst , and in such case the blood-corpuscle finally exhibits only a small rouiid particle remaining at the point of its circumference from which the tail had proceeded .
After describing in detail various other appearances which he nloted in his experiments , and which , as well as those above mentioned , are delineated in several drawings which illustrate the paper , the author thus states his views as to the nature of the phenomena observed : " In these experiments , a mixture of a saline solution and sherry wine , or the wine alone , is added to a drop of fresh blood .
The addition must changoe the properties of the fluid in which the corpuscles natur-ally swim .
The change in the fluid produces changes in the corpuscles , shownl by their altered appearance , their indisposition any longer to adhere in rolls , fand the variouts markings seen within them .
Some time after these changes the corpuscles discharge molecular particles , and emit tails or filaments , which , separating from the corpuscles , materially alter the transparency and aspect of the fluid .
" The first alteration of the fluid element of the blood-that , namely , produced by the addition of the extraneous fluid-causes no visible troubling or change in it ; but the second alteration , which consists in the appearance of a great number of molecular particles , is visibly produced by the agency of the corpuscles .
The molecular particles are seen coming out of the corpuscles , separating from them , and disturbing the transparency of the fluid .
" In corroboration of his opinion that the filaments and molecules are emitted from the blood-corpuscles , and not produced by a precipitation or solidification of coagulable matter in the plasma , the author especially draws attention to the fact that , so far as he observed , the molecules appear only in those parts of the fluid where the corpuscles have been altered and are fringed with similar molecules , or emitting tails ; whilst in other parts , where such changes are not occurring in the corpuscles , the fluid is perfectly clear , and free from molecules .
Moreover , the emission of tails and molecules is not the result of a breaking up of the corpuscles ; for many of the latter may be seen emitting long tails without any alteration of their niatural form ; and although no doubt the corpuscles are finally broken up , this process does not take place sooner in those with tails than in those which have none .
In connexion with his present observations , the author relates two cases of febrile and inflammatory disease ( already reported by him in the ' London Medical Gazette ' some years since ) , in which molecular matter existed abundantly in the liquid part of the blood .
The molecules in these cases , as in his present experiments , he believes to have proceeded from the blood-corpuscles , and likewise through the operationi of some abnormal influence , which , however , must have acted upon the corpuscles during their circulation in the living body .
The author next refers to certain inferences from the foregoing observationis calculated to elucidate questions in pathology and practical medicine , which , however , he has already made known in Ihis GCulstoinian Lectures .
ro produce the effects described , brown sherry of the best quality was employed .
Inferior sherry wines alter the outline of the corpuscles , but do not cause the production either of tails or molecules .
With other sherry wines of a better kind , the author finds it preferable to mix them with a fourth or a fifth part of the saline solution instead of one-third ; he has tried port-wines and various mixtures of brandy and water , with and without sugar , but almost always without the effect here described .

