XVII .
Observations og a Current that often-prevails to the Westward of Scilly a endangering the Safety of Ships that approach the British Channel .
By James RennellX Esq. FoR : So Read June 6^ 179s 1T is a circumstance well known to seamen , that shps , in coming Women the Atlantic , and steering a course for the British channeln in a parallel somewhat to the south of the Scilly Islands , do , notwithstarlding , often find themselares to the north of those islands : or , in other words , in the mouth of the St. George's7 or of the Bristol channel .
This extraordinary error has passed for the effects , either of bad steerageS bad obserlrations of latitude , or the indraught of the Bristol channel : but none of these account for it satisfactorily c because admitting that at times there may be an indraught , it cannot be supposed to extend to Scillyf and the case has happened in weather the most favourable for navigating , and for taking observations .
The consequences of this deviation from the intended track , have Yery often been fatal : particularly in the loss of the Nancy packet , in ourown times , and that of Sir CLOUDESLEY SHOVEL , and others of his fleet , at the Wginning of the present century .
Numbers of cases , equally melancholy , but of less celebrity , have occurred ; and many others , in which the danger has been imminent , but not fatalf have scarcely reached the public ear .
All of these have been wferred to accident ; and:therefore no attempt seems toC have Xbeen made , to investigate the cause of them .
I-am however of opinionS that they may be imputed to a speci &gt; Sc cause ; namelyi a current : and I shall therefore endeavour to-irlvestigate both that , and its-effects ; that seamen may be apprzed of the tlmes , when they are particularly to expect it , in any -considerable degree of strength ; for then only } it is likely to occasion mischief ; the current that prevails at ordinary times , being , probably , too weak to produce an error in the reckoning- ) equal to the diSerence of parallel , between the south part of Scilly , and the track -that a comlnancler , prudent in his measures , but unsuspicious of a current , would chuse to sail in.+$It seems to be gellerally allowed , that there is always a current , setting round the Capes of Finisterre , and Ortegal , , into the Bay of Biscay .
This I have the authority of Captain MENDOZA RIOS , a Fellow of the Royal Society , and an officer in the royal navy of Spaina for asserting .
Besides , such an inti mation was amongst the earliest notices that I receiveda concerning matters of navigation , -when -an b-card of a ship that sailed close along the north coast of Spain , in s757* The current thens is admitted to set to the eastward along the coast of Spain ; and continues its course , as I am assured , along the coast of -France , to the north , and north-west^ .
and indeed , any body of water , once set in motion , along a coast , carlnot suddenly tqp &gt; nor does it , probably , lose that motion , until by degrees it mixes with the ocearl S after being projected into it either from the side of some protnontorya that extends very ffar beyond the general direction of the coast ; or afterbeing conducted into it , through a strait .
The original cause of this current , I apprehencl to be , the prevalence of westerly winds in the Atlantic e which , inlpelling the waters along the north coast of Spain , occasions a current7 in the Erst instance .
The stronger the wind7 : : the more water will kne driven into the Bay of Biscayg in a glven time f and the Icnger the contirluance of the wind , the farther will the vein of current extend It seerlls to be clearly proved , that cllrrents of water , after running along a coast that suddenly challges its direction ( as happexls on the French coastn at the promontory south of Breast ) do not change their course with that of the shoretabut preserve9 for a considerable time the direction which they received from the coast they last ran by .
In some instarlces , after being projected into the sea , they never again approach the shore ; but preserve , to a very great distance , nearly the direction in which they were projected , as well as a consi derable degree of their original velocityv and temperature .
The gulf stream ( of Floricia ) is a wonderful instance of this kind " ; : which ) originating in a body of pent-ups watersS in the Gulf of Mexicof is discharged with such velocity , through the Straits of l3ahama , that its mot ; ion is traceable through the Atlalltic , to the Bank of Newfoundland ; and may possibly extend much farther .
This being therefore the case9 we can have no difEculty in conceivingn that the current of the Bay of Biscay continues its course , which may be about NW by W from the coast of France , to the westward of Scilly and Ireland At ordinary times , it$ strenvh may not be great enough to preserve its line of direction ; acro-ss the mouth of the Bri tish Channel ; or if it does preserve its direction , it may not have velocity enough to throw a sllip so fir out of her course as to put her in danger .
But , that a current prevails generally , ... there carl be little doubt ; and its clegree of strength will be regulated by the state of the winds .
After a long interval of moderate westerly gales , it may be hardly perceptible t for a very few miles of northingn in the 24 hours , will be referred to bad steerage , or some other kind of error : but after hard and continued gales from the western quarter , the current will be felt in a considerable degree of strength ?
and not only in the parallel of Scilly , but in that of the south-west coast of Irelazd likewise .
Our observation of what passes in the most common waters , issufficient to show how easily a current may be induced by the action of the windS on the water contiguous to a bankn when the wind blows alongit .
In a canal of about four miles in length , the water was kept upfour inches Iligher at one end , than at the othern by the mere action of the wind , alollg the canalJ Ihis was an experiment-macie , and reported to me , by my much lamented acquaintance , the late Mr. SMEATON .
We know also , the effiects of a strong southwestor north-westn windn on our own coasts : naulely , that of raising vertr high tides in the British Channel or in the Thames7 and on ffie eastern coasts ; as those winds respectively blow : because the water that is accumulated , cannot escape quick enoughS by the Strait of Dover , to allow of the level being preservedv Alson that the Baltic is kept up atwo ffieet at least .
by a stxong NW wirld of arly GorltinuRnce : and that the C-aspian Sea is higher by several -feet , at either ends as a stron-g northerly , --or southerly , wind prevails .
There &lt; fore , as water ( pent u-p , in a situation from which it cannot ebscape , acquires a higher level , soS in a place where it can -escape , the same operation produces a current : and this current will extend to a greater or less distance , according to the force with which-it is set in motion , or , in other words , according to the height at which it is kept up , by the wind .
It may possibly b-e asked , why a similar current does not prevall ln the British Channely from the same westerly winds ?
To this I answer , that the increased height and velocity of the tides , during the prevalence of such winds , prove that a part , at least , of the same effect which happens in the Bay of Biscay , is produced in the(Channel ; and I have little doubt5 that there is , in fact , a current also v but that , as it is blended with the common tide , the effict on the senses is lost : for it may appear only in the formof a ; stronger floc)d tide , ox a weaker ebb , than at other times .
Whereas the Bay , a wider space , and of a different forna , allows a freer scope to the : tides , than the British Channelw does : it being high water nearly at the same time , all over the Bay ; but varying in the Charlnel , at least five hours .
And it may be concluded , from analogy , that the form of the Channel does not allow of the.same-effiect being produced by the wind , on its included waters , as may be produced on those of the Bay : these meeting with an opposition , in the coast of Frarlce , the others llavinUg a partial exits at the Strait of Dover : we may also conclude , that if no such phanomenon as a tide existed , a current , though less strong than in the Bay , would be per c^ceIveilhin the 13ritish Charlnel .
Of the Bay of Biscay it mayX be observed that by reason of its form , and exposure to the reigning winds , which are offen violent and which pass over a vast expanse of water , there is no part of the ocean , familiarly known to us , whose circumstances are , in any degree , similar to it .
It ought not therefore to surprise us , if we find that it differs , in arly particular , from other seas .
Seamen have remarked lts uncommorl degree of agitationo ill stormy weathex* ; but this has not , as fiar as I know , been properly accoullted : for .
Mayl itnot be owing generally , to the same callsei as that which produces the current ?
and aet times , to the very current itself ?
With respect to the ; first the waves of a dee ?
bay or gulf , when the wind forcesthe water into it , will meet withN a resistance inv the land at the head of it , ^ which must occasikon a reverberation , that will render the surface of a great part of the gulf more unquiet , than when there is an opening at the end to allow the undulatory motion a freer scope .
What is said here is esemplified on a small scale , by Mr. SMEATON'S very ingenious manner of quieting Ramsgate harbour .
( See his Tract on that harbour , page 4-G.)1 And with respect to the second cause the effiect of a current running to windward , in producing a short , hollow , and therefore dangerous , wave , is pretty well known .
Accordingly , at seasons when the current runs strong , ands the wind blows fresh from the north-west quarter , this callse mustalso contribute to the agitation of the watersn in the north par.t of these bayet It is quite ancertain at what interval of time , from the commencement of strong westerly galest in the Atlantic and Bay of Biscay the current may operate on the tracks of ships near Scilly ; tbr nte are not possessed of the datan requisitq for determining it .
If we were to conceive a current , originating on the coast of Spainj and aftertards disturbing the courses of shipsn -orl the west of Scilly and Ireland v this wouldrequire too much time , to agree with one of the instances which I mean to adduce : although it ls probable , that this may be nearly the eSect at ordillary times , and when the westerly vinds blow moderately .
But as , in one striking instance , it appears thatvthe current operated in a very renwarkable manner , -on the sllip5s course , on the fourth day after the commencement of the galea in the quarter where the ship wras ; the cause should rather be looked for , in ; the sudden and great accurnulation of water in the Bay of Biscay : otherwise , there is no accounting for the sudden appearance of the current .
And the very act of accumulation , causing an indraughtn there will consequently be a current round the Capes Aof Finisterre , and*Ortegal , towards the Bay .
Be the exact causen however , what it may itno doubt originates in the Bay , by the action of strong westerly winds : tlaNe prevalence of such winds , will therefore be the signal for the appearance of a current between Ushant and the south-west coast of Ireland + for though the cause carl only be guessed at , the effect is too well ascertaineda to remainin doubt .
I shall now adduce the facts , Qr } which the idea of the existence of a current is founded .
has been felt , very far wirbill the limiS of the southeast tmde winds in the Indlan oGDXB .
]:n crossing the eastern part of the Atlantic , in the TIECTOR : East India sllipn in t778 we encountered , betweerl the pa mllels of 4 arid 49 , very strong westerly gales , but particularly between the z6th and 24 , th of Januaryd when , ; at inter va1Ss it blew witha uncommon vXlolence .
It varied two , or more , points , both to the north and south of west , but blew longest from the northern points v and it extended , as I after^ srards learn:ta from the coast of Nova Scotia , to that of Spainv V5ve arrived wthin 60 or 70 leagues of the meridian of Scillyf on the Soth of January , keeping between the parallels of 49 and So S and about this time* we began to feel a currentS which set the ship to the north of her intended parallel , by near half a degree , in the Interval between two observatioas of latitude , that is , in two , days .
And the wind earer after wards , inclining to the south , would not permit us to regain the parallel ; form although the northern set ras triflingx from the 31St until we arrived very near Scilly ; yet the u7ind , being both sca}t and light , we could never overcome the tendency of the current .
Add to this that the direction of the currentS being much more westerly than northerly we crossed it on so very oblique a course that we continued in it a long time ; and were drivens as it appears , rlear go-leagues to the mrest by it : fs3r we had soundings in 73 fathoms , ln the latitude of Scilly , , and afterwards -ran lSo miles , by the log , directly east before we came the length of the islands In eiectn in running 120 milesn we shallowed the water , only nine fathomsX We not only were sensible of the current , by the observaF tions of latitude , but by rzplings on the surfice of the waterS d by the direction of the lead line The consequence of a]l MBCCXC II It 2 C this was that we were driverl to the north of Scilly ; and were barely able to lay a coitrse through the passage between those islands and the Landvs End .
lIaving no time keeper on board , we were unable to ascertain the several points , in this part of our track , and therefore can only approximate our longitudeS and that but very coarsely .
But according to what we learnt from our soundings , and from a vessel which had only just entered the current , it may be concluded , that the current , at times , extends to 60 leaguesS west of Scilly S and also runs close on the west of those islands .
However , the breadth of the stream , may probably be little more than so leagues 3 for we crossed it , as has been said , very obliquely ; and perhaps , in the widest part .
The jourllal of the ATLAS East India ship Captain ( COOPERN 1ll 1787 , furnishes much clearer proofs both of the existence of the current , and of the rate of its motion : for havi &lt; g time keepers on board Captain COOPER was frequently enabled to note the difference betweerl the true , and time supposeci -longitude ; and it may be said , that this journal , by the means it affords of ascertaining the current , is llighly valuable , as\#163 ; ontaining some very important facts , and which might have been ent-irely lost to the public , had not Captain COOPER marked them , in the most pointed marlner .
I shall proceed to state , in abstract7 the most important of the facts recorded in the journal .
The ATLAS sailed with a fair wind , and took her departure from the Isle of Wight orz the e$th of JanuaryS 1787 ; and on the 27th had advarlced 45 leagues to the westward of Ushant ; when a violent gale of wind began at south arlds al30ut 1t hours afterwards , changed sudderuly to the westward .
The gale contillued througl1 the four fbllowing days : on the 223th , it was generally Wby S and WSW ; orl the 2gth,0 SWbyW , or more southerly ; and on the Soth and st , SSSW , to SW hy $ .
During this long ilaterval , the ship was generally Iyvng tv and with her head SQ the-NW .
On the lSt of February , the wind abated , but still blew frolil the-south-westward ; and the ship was kept to the northwest .
The storrny weather returned again the following day , and continued , with little interinission , until the z lth ) blowing from all the intermediate points , between sout-ll and WNW ; but chiefly , and most rriolently , from the W5W , and SW. At intervals , on the 8th and Dth in particular , the journal remarks7 that c ; zt blew a mere harricane .
' ' Ot1 the th , the weather growing more lnoderate , and the wind favourable , the ship proceeded on her course , southward ) being then two degrees and a quarter of longitude , to the west of Cape Finisterre , by the reckonsng ; but by the time keepers , more than four degrees and a ha .
After the above abstract of the proceedings of the ship I shall subjoill the following particulars ; which are the most in point , to the purpose of the preisent discussion .
On the 27th , at noon , soon after the gale commenced , the longitude , by reckoning , agreed withlin + minutes of that shown by the time keepers7 the latter being the most svesterly .
This differenGe alone might well have arisen from * In this , as well as rn the former statement of the winds , I have allowed for the variation of the cc)mpass ; that the application of it , to the quarter of the heavenss and to the chart annexed , ( see Tab XXI .
) may be more easy and clears 2 C !
kan error in the Iog , or even in the position of the needle point on the Isle of Wight from whence the departure was taken 5 but-it may also be owing to the westerly current whilst the ship remained in it , on the 27th ; if we adl:nit that such a current prevails at all times , though in different de grees of strength .
Here it is proper to remark , that in deli neating C-aptain CooPEs track , on the chart , I have scrupu lously adhered to the result of each day 's work , of the reckoning , as I find it in his journal , contenting myself with in serting my own observations on the track , in this paper only ; where -theyX cannot mislead .
The longitudes pointed out by the time keepers on the e8th , 2gth , and ^goth , show , that the increasing , though trifling differences , between the true longitude , and that by the dead reckoning , had amounted to 24 minutes only on the Soth .
At this time the ship was about 24 leagues to the WSW of Scilly ; and , at or 6 leagues to the SSE of this position , ( that is , at 2s leagues SW by W from Scilly ) they had soundings at yo fathoms .
This last particular is men tioned , to prove : that the longitude shown by the time keepers ( 8 ' 28 ' west from London ) was nearly the langi tude in which the ship really was , on the goth of JarluarJrO That of St. Agnes ( Scilly ) is taken at 6Q 46 ' .
The Atlas was now entered into the stream of the same current which occasioned so much delay to the Hector but the course of the Atlas , being opposite to that of the Hector7 it facilitated her progress ; and also carriedaher clear of the south-west coast of Irelande Orl the Sost , the time keepers showed that the ship had been set very considerably to the westward of the reckorling &gt; and by the-2d of February , at o in the afternoon , itappeared that she had : been set two whole degrees of longittud@ to the west of the reckorlingX since the 30th at noon , that isn ill the course of hours- .
( Here it may be proper to remark , that I have , throughout , reckoned according to sea timeS that isf the day commences at noon .
) On the Sd of February , at rzoona the ; time keepers showed a further set , of 23minutes of longitude , more than the reckoning gave , in theinterval since the last observationb which was 4tS hours S so that , since the goth of January , 4 days only , the ship had been earried by the current , no less than two degrees and twenty-three minutes S and since the 27th , when the gale began , 2 ' 32t of longittlde ) amounting , in these -parallels , to ninety-nine marine miles But here , the current appears to have totally left themv and : it isvery probable , that it even ceasecI before the time-of observation , on the Sd for the !
succeeding observations-of the th , 6thy *7ths gth , aoth , and slth , although thestrorlg westerly gales continued , come so near the longitude by thereckoning ( deduceEl from the observation of the gd ) that the differences , which are sometimes to the east , and at other times to the west , may be with more propriety ascribed to trrors of the log , than to a current ; as may be seen by the two tracks on the chartr We may therefore concludeS that the current did not cease at the very point of time , when the observation of the 3d was taken , but probably some time beforee It appears then , that the Atlas experienced a westerly-current , from a point about 24 leagues to the WSW of Scilly ( if not earlier ) to four degrees of longitude west of the meridian of Cape Clear@ in the parallel of z where its effects were no longer perceptible .
Andg as no current was felt in the track southward , on the l 1th ; nor in any part of the track to the north-west , between the gd and loth , although it was felt nearltT in the same line of direction , between the lst and Sd7 it may be inferred that the streann goes off to the northwestf between the aforesaid track , and the south-west coast of Ireland .
It is much to be regretted that no -observations ap pear on the 12th and lSth ; which would have been decisive of its course .
I come now to two 13articulars of the case , wllichS I con fess , perplex me exceedingly The first is that the current was felt , apparent ; lie in itsufull strength , on the fourth day af ter the commencement of the gale ; which begall at south , then changed suddenly to the west and WSW and afterwards fixed in the SW quartere This gale was felt between the 48th and Sotla degrees of latitude , and , no doubt , extended its effects very far to the south and west ; but what the state of the winds had been in those quarters , previous to the 27th of Jalluary , we are ignorant .
Tlle winds in the Bri tish Channel had been easterly , for three days preceding the gale : the fourth day , preceding , t-here had been strong gales at SW t and the five days preceding that , there had bee &lt; chiefly light wunds at west .
According to this state of facts , we can only suppose that the current originated from a vast body of water , pent up in the Bay of Biscay , by violent gales of wind ; first from the soutllward , eleve &lt; hours f then from a point or two to thesouth cf west ; and lastly } at south-west .
i Cape CleaI is reckoned to be in long .
9 ' 2S ' from LDndon .
We are not to consider the water of this current , as having made the circult of the EJay of Biscay , but as the collective body of pent up waters , in the Bay , running off along the SW coast of 13ritallny , and thence to the north-westward 4 preserving nearly the direction it laud acquired , by running along that coast .
And it may be concelved , that the frequent recurrence of westerly wTinds , keeps up a constant current in the Bay , and to some distance beyoncl it ; although during the longest intermissions of these winds , the current may become so slowg as to be scarce perceptible .
The second particular which perplexes me , is , that no northern set is inclicated by ( Captain COOPER'S journal : that is to say , by the mode in which each day 's log is wrought 7 and whichn in the formation of the chart , as is said before , I have strictly adhered to It indeed appears to me very wonderful , that no northing should appear , when it seems to be the very same kind of current which carried the Hector so far to the northwardv It is certain , that the state of the wPeather was such , as to preclude those nice attentions to the reckoning , which might enable us to detect ally small differerlces , between the latitucie by account , and that by observation X although the western set was too considerable to es cape notice , and may even Ilave been more than the statennent sets forth I cannot therefore , by any means admit that there was rlo northing in the current through which the Atlas passed ) first , because they had rzot obserrrations of lati tude , regularlyX and lastly , because on the st of 3anuaryS when Iytng to , :36 miles are allowed for go hours dr\#171 ; t , to the north'west ; which appears to me excessive .
On that day they had no observation of latitude , and orl the following day , the observation : showed two miles northingf which however prove$ nothing .
Again on the succeeding day , ( the gd ) in a most important point of the trackn there was no observation of latitude .
In the Hector , precisely in the same track , and at the same season of the year , the current had , as has rbeen observedS a considerable degree of northing in its course .
On two days it was about 12 miles , each , on another day 1S , and -on two Others , n.and 8 , and this .
, in mreather very favourable for lieeping a r.eckonJingn and with observations of latitude , on ev.ery day save one ; not to mention the strong circumstances of a visible set to the northward , indicated , as well by the lead line , as by the rippling on the surfac.e of the w.ater .
It is .
in the nature of currents , to expand th.eirst.r.eams or.columrls of water , after being prog.ected into the oce.an X and theref.ore , according:to this 1av , the middle part of the stream should preserve tts.original.course , in a greater degree than the borders of it , SQ that the.middle part may run to the NW.by WS whilst the eastern border may run more nortfserly and the western border more zvesterly .
It is certain , that in the HectorS we felt thenortherly current much stronger close on the west.of S.cilly , than filrther QUt , vand it.app.eared by the dis-tance we ran,.after sounding in *73 fithoms , that the current..Xnust have s.et.much.more zuesterlyS than norlherlyo the whNole time .
The..following remar.ks obviously &lt; .occur , on the eff.7ect:of.this current .
, * -st .
Whatever -anay be the:breadth o..f the stream ( which is at present unknown).if -a ship crosses it very obliquely that as in an E by SS or more southerly direction ( as may easily happen , on finding herself too far to the northward ?
at the first place of observation after she gets intoX thecurrent ) , she will , of course , continue much longer in it , and ; will be more affected by it , than if she steered more directly across it .
She will be in a similar situation , if she crosses it with light winds , , and both of these circumstances shouId be attended to .
And if it be true , as I suspect it is , that the -eastern border of the current hasa more northerly direction than the middle of it , thisalso should be guarded against* I conceive also , that the stream is broader in the parallel of Scillyg than farther rsouth* ; And here we tnay0remark , that those who , from a parallel south of Scilly , have been carried clear of it to the north , wheSn approaching it , in the night , may esteem themselves fortunate that the current was so strong ; for had it b-een weaker , they might haxre been carried on the rocksx 2d .
A good observa-tiorz Vof Iatitude , at no-on , would be thought a sufficient warrant for running eastwardn during a long night : yet as-it mayibe possible to remain in the current , long etlough to be carried from a parallel that may be deemed a very safe one to that of the roclis of Scilly , in the course of such a night ; it would appear prudent , aft-er experiencing a continuance of strong westerly gales in the Atlanticn and approaching the Channel with light southerly winds , either to make Ushant , or at all events to keep itl the parallel of 48 ' , 4 , q5 ' , at the highest .
If they keep in , g:3otv they will experience the whole effiect of the current , in a position where they can least remedy the evil : but if in 483 , +rS ' they areassailed by the north-west cuwent , they are still in a po$itiOtl from whence a southerly wind will carry them into the Chanrlel .
But all sllips that cross the AtlanticS and are bound to the eastward of the Lizard had better make Ushant allder the above circumstances , in times of peace .
Or , at all events , -why should they run in a parallel , in which they are likely to lose : ground ?
gd .
Ships , bound to the westward , from the lmoutll of the Channel , with the wind in the south-west quarter9 so that it may appear indiSerent which tack they go on , should prefer the larboardf tack ; as they will then have the benefit of the current .
4th .
I understand that the light house of Scilly is either removed , or to be rernoved , to the south-west part of the islands ; or of the high rocks .
This is certainly a wise measure- ; as the light should be calculated more particularly for ships that have a long , than a short departure , like those fromany part of the European coasts , to the northwardX or eastward .
The light house ought also to be built very lofty .
I am sorry to remark , that , as far as my observation has gone , this li\#171 ; t lias never appeared clear and bright , as a light to direct ships ought to do th .
It would be worth the attention of government ( inmy humble opinion ) to send a vessel with time keepers on board , in order to examine and-note the soundings between the parallels of Scilly and Ushant , at least ; from the llleridian of the I , izard point ) as far west as the moderate depths extend vI mean such as can lJe ascertained with exactness , in the ordi-nary method of sounding .
I have reason to suppose that our chart of soundings is very bad ; and indeed , how caIl it be otherwise considering the imperfect state of the art of marirle -surveyin$ , at the time when it was made ?
A set of time KeePerS SWi11 e\#171 ; eCt mOre il1 the GOUrSe da S11mmEr , iR-tke handS Of a SkiSfUL PraC-titiOner ; thaN aE11 the ISCienCe Of 13rS HALLEY , during -along life : ; for who could place a sin:gle cast of soundings , in the open seay iavithout the aid of a:time keeper ?
The current ila question , must have disturbed every operation of this killed .
It should be the task of the personl so employed , to note all the varieties of bottoma as well as the depths , the time of high and low water f setting of the tidesy artd currelatsX &amp;c. Such a survey , skilfully conducted , might enable mariners to supply the want of observationsj of latitude , and of longitude ; and , of course , to defy the currents as far as relates to its power of misleading them .
6th .
It ls certain , that the curre-tat in question may be somewhat disturbed -by ?
or rather will appear to be blended with , the tides at the entrances of the British and St. GeorgeJs Channels ; but it is obvious that the current will have the same effect , insetting a ship out of her course as if no tide existedf because , wlaatever effect one tide may have the next will nearly do away .
But there are two particulars , - &lt; well worth ascertalning ; and these are , first , the point at which the two tides of St George 's , and of the British Chan. .
nel separate on the west of Scilly .
And secondly , what degree of northing one of the streatns has more than the other Because a ship , in approaching Scilly from the west on a flood tide and keeping in a parallel which may be to the noErth of the point of separation of the two tides ( and consequently in the ticle stream of St. G-eorge 's Cllannel ) lllay be thronvn too far to the north ; oalthough , had slae been far -enough to the west , to receive the effect of the next ebbs this smporary and alternate derangement of the course would have had no ill effector even have been noticed .
But admitting that a tides with any degree of northing in it , does take place a Iittle to the west of Scilly this will furnish an additional reason for keeping in a southern parallel .
x _I , XA A::S 5gME16rJt.r dzc diDrtvtte tt / 24 fZ ; 29 &lt; ) tiue Hector wa ; wet &gt; dte,7lret4 / t / , J twAift ncnalt ; y Mt ' tie .dEJ{z7z*V r ?
'et : G rs ' _\ ot tI '9re &gt; .
s -r .
T ff C ',.Cs W. AsA/ e jh i ' .
un , ffi of .
' b ; ve Ortegal _- &gt; z C.]'tolet .
, rrol RtfieXxJ &amp; ; C DS , g ?
, 11 S &gt; e Fiwisterrc\ 7 6 ' 5 ' 49 l , , , ,2 4o i tort ] ; 'corzent -Fg _ .
t awe , , , S n1R , &lt; -N S C , '\#163 ; ,.uj.4 is , Ca Nantz o\ e &gt; ' S " s Ni %:\ t '' 's &lt; 'M 11 .
, q 21 v 4XRo cheJJe of to(h(^folt 46 | NoW^r'coodesaawl s ( , alsZz , , / , , ; 1f bb 7 _Uv\#163 ; aFolll4e { / 4'S ya 2ZOZ2e3l3 tt'''t If .
* ' 6

