An Application of Electrolytically Produced Luminosity .
437 conditions the electrical emissions , in the absence of any applied potential , have been measured for a number of substances ( including the alkaline earths and the metals tin , aluminium , iron , and copper ) on their introduction into the furnace .
During their rapid volatilisation the substances gave out large amounts of electricity , which , with one exception , was negative in sign .
For example , barium oxide and alumina generated negative currents of the order of 4 amperes per square centimetre , boiling tin about 2 amperes per square centimetre , and boiling iron about 1 ampere per square centimetre .
Boiling brass , on the contrary , produced a positive current of about 0*5 ampere per square centimetre .
The results have interest in connection with the problems of solar magnetism .
Incidentally , striking absorption-colorations were obtained when the light from the furnace was transmitted through the vapours of the alkaline earths , e.g. , the emergent light in the case of strontia was coloured a brilliant green , and with baryta a salmon-pink .
An Application of Electrolytically Produced Luminosity , Forming a Step towards Telectroscopy .
By L. H. Walter , M.A. ( Communicated by Sir Alfred Ewing , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 4 , \#151 ; Read May 28 , 1914 .
) It has long been known that in valve cells the anode becomes luminous when the potential difference across the cell exceeds a certain value , and Sebor and Simek* have shown that the luminous property is enhanced when the anode is not of pure aluminium .
The first to make practical use of this property appears to have been G- .
J. Johnstone , f who found that an aluminium alloy containing as much as 10 per cent , of some metal which exhibits no valve effect per se ( e.g. , copper , tin , etc. ) gave a greatly improved luminous effect , in fact , according to his claims , one of quite a different order .
About three years ago the author determined to repeat Johnstone 's experiments with a view to seeing if the idea could not be applied to certain purposes which the author had in view .
* ' Zeitschrift flir Elektrochemie , ' vol. 13 , p. 113 ( 1907 ) .
t ' Electrical World , ' vol. 52 , p. 343 ( 1908 ) .
Mr. L. H. Walter .
With a cast alloy as described by Johnstone a certain luminous effect was noticed but cast metal was not suitable for the author 's purpose .
With rolled or drawn alloy it was found in general that corrosion rapidly set in , leading ultimately to reduced voltage across the cell and extinction of the luminosity : until this corrosion became very marked , however , it only had the effect of increasing the leakage current .
On trying a number of alloys it was observed that duralumin\#151 ; an aluminium alloy commercially obtainable in the rolled and drawn forms\#151 ; gave a very much greater luminous effect than Johnstone 's alloy at the same voltage .
Corrosion took place , however , just as rapidly as with the other alloys , and the remarkable feature was that the more usual electrolytes which give good results with pure aluminium showed up very badly when duralumin was used , ammonium borate , particularly , causing bad corrosion .
After a prolonged series of trials two electrolytes , namely sodium tungstate and sodium molybdate , were found which , while giving a satisfactory valve effect , showed practically no tendency to attack the duralumin under ordinary conditions , although both electrolytes quickly corroded other aluminium alloys containing zinc or tin .
This gave the clue to the favourable behaviour of duralumin , which contains neither of the two latter metals but only about 3-| to 5|- per cent , of copper , J per cent , of magnesium , and a small amount of manganese .
Having now at his disposal a suitable alloy and electrolyte the author was able to proceed towards the attainment of his object , and succeeded in constructing various luminous devices , out of sheet alloy or wire , which enabled rapid changes of design to be exhibited .
These devices were immersed in a glass tank containing the electrolyte , and were viewed through the glass of the tank .
This arrangement presents no special features of physical interest and so will be passed over .
In the course of the experiments it was found that the glass front of the tank became dimmed and coated with a deposit from the electrolyte when the device had been working or even standing for some time : further , the submerging of the metal and the carrying up of the necessary contact wires so that they should emerge from the electrolyte in a suitably insulated condition presented difficulties .
It was , therefore , sought to dispense with the tank and to arrange that the liquid should flow down the face of the alloy .
As a matter of fact the capillary effect of the film was found to act so effectively in keeping the surface wetted , that if the bottom edge of a sheet of alloy was dipped into the electrolyte and held there , the moisture retained would suffice for the luminous effect to be obtained , but only for a short time owing to the heating .
Still , the behaviour of the alloy under these conditions suggested An Application of Electrolytically Produced Luminosity .
439 that it would be possible by assisting this surface action to turn it to practical use , provided a sufficiently transparent material could be applied to the surface to act as a means of spreading the electrolyte over it .
It was finally found that a sufficient and equally distributed layer of liquid flowing down the face of the alloy to be rendered luminous could be secured by the simple expedient of hanging a wetted piece of crepe de Chine in front of the alloy , in such a way that it clings to the face of the metal , and letting the liquid flow down over the surface ; the circulation of the liquid being secured by means of a small centrifugal pump driven directly by a small electric motor .
The successful solution of the problem of how to dispense with the glass tank had a rather interesting result .
It of course became obvious that , since the luminous member no longer had to be immersed the conducting leads could be passed out at the back of the luminous object , which latter was generally supported on an ebonite or other insulating sheet , and since at the back of the sheet there is no liquid flowing and the metal is dry there , the whole arrangement of contacts could be got at conveniently .
This at once suggested that , by making up the luminous anode out of a very large number of equal units , wetted in front and supplied with current at the rear , a long-sought-for arrangement could be arrived at , namely , a simple and inexpensive apparatus comprising a vast number of separately controllable equal units which can be made luminous in any grouping or sequence desired ; in brief , such an apparatus as has often been pictured mentally as a visual receiver in the case of phototelegraphy and even telectroscopy .
In the author 's crude experimental apparatus he has been able to obtain 5,500 separately controllable luminous units in a space little larger than the size of a cabinet photograph , equivalent to more than 24,000 per square foot .
The way in which the electrical connections are made is shown in the figure .
This gives , on an enlarged scale , a sectional end elevation of a small part of the anode , comprising the alloy units or studs s , s , and their supporting sheet of ebonite e. The electrolyte escapes from holes h in the pipe p and flows down the faces of the studs , the flow being distributed by the crepe curtain c , which is supported from the pipe p. The most suitable voltage to work at is from 130 to 140 volts , the negative Mr. P. G. Nutting .
terminal of a direct current electric supply being connected to p , while the positive lead makes contact with the backs of those studs which it is desired to make luminous .
The arrangement can be used for quite a number of purposes , and it is proposed to publish later the results of experiments in the reproduction of photographs , etc. For the present , in this preliminary paper , it is merely desired to point out that a new means is now available , by which , within a small compass , an almost unlimited number of separately controllable luminous areas can be obtained ; that such areas , or points , can have their luminosity graded , by means of the applied voltage ; that such luminosity can be established , or extinguished , at least some hundreds of times per second ; and that , since all the luminous points are automatically in parallel , being all connected to the negative pole ( the electrolyte ) , only one contact is needed for each alloy unit .
The Axial Chromatic Aberration of the Human Eye .
By P. Gr .
Nutting .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , F.R.S. Received May 16 , \#151 ; Read May 28 , 1914 .
) A bright object viewed directly by a normal human eye shows no* perceptible coloured fringes .
From this it has been assumed by some that the eye is fairly well corrected chromatically , at least for the most luminous constituents of white light .
On the other hand , if the same object be viewed through a filter transmitting only the extreme red and blue , it will appear with either a red or blue fringe , showing that for these extreme rays the eye is not corrected .
Helmholtz* passed monochromatic light through a small hole and found that when red light was used , the hole appeared in best focus when viewed from a distance of about 8 feet .
With blue illumination it appeared brightest at about 1| feet , and with extreme violet but a few inches ( nur einige Zolle ) .
With these rough determinations of Helmholtz the question appears to have rested .
With the aid of very simple apparatus it was found possible to obtain rather precise determinations of axial focal length .
The test object used was the * ' Physiolog .
Optik , ' 3rd edit .
, 1909 , vol. 1 , p. 147 .

