]\gt ; The Pouer of the -Rays from Radium By ALEXANDER S. RUSSELL , M.A. , Carnegie Research Fellow of the University of Glasgow .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received November 14 , \mdash ; Read December 5 , 1912 .
) The primary object of the present research was to find out if there is any residual radiation from radium after the -rays of ordinary penetrating power have been entirely absorbed .
In the course of the work it was necessary to measure the absorption of the -rays by mercury .
This , also , has therefore been investigated in some detail .
Only experimental results are given in this paper .
A discussion of the theoretical meaning of the results will be given in a subsequent paper dealing with hardening and scattering of -rays .
A very penetrating radiation may be looked upon either as a new type of radiation , resembling the -ray in that it is uncharged , but possessing a much greater penetrating power , or , if the assumption be made that the -rays are heterogeneous , as the most penetrating constituents of the -ray beam .
The recent work of Danysz*has shown clearly that some of the -rays from radium are ejected with a velocity not less than 99 per cent. of that of light .
It is not unreasonable to expect that there are -rays corresponding to these , and possessing , therefore , a much greater penetrating power than the average penetrating power of ordinary -rays .
This radiation , if it exists , would be present in the -ray beam only in very small amount , and detectable , therefore , only when a large source of radium is used , and special precautions taken .
In a previous paper it has been shown by F. and W. M. Soddy and the author that , when measured ditions such that no scattered radiation of any kind enters the electroscope , the -rays are absorbed , apparently according to a strictly exponential law , over a range of thickness of lead of 2 to 22 cm .
; or , expressed mathematically , if , be the intensity of the -rays after traversing a thickness of metal , the intensity after traversing a thickness , it was found experimentally that where is the base of the natural system of logarithms , and is a constant , * J. Danysz , ' Count .
Rend 1911 , vol. 153 , pp. 339 , 1066 ; 'Ls Radium , ' 1912 , vol. 9 , p. 1 .
F. and W. M. Soddy and A. S. Russell , ' Phil. Mag 1910 , , p. 725 .
Mr. A. S. Russell .
The Penetrating [ Nov. 14 , the absorption coefficient .
is constant from 2 to 22 cm .
of lead , and has the value c il .
In this work , difficulty was experienced in making accurate measurements from the 18th to the cm .
, owing to the smailness of the ionisation from the source of radium used .
For this reason , it was impossible to say with certainty , whether or not there was any radiationwhich etrated the greater of these thicknesses .
The result found indicated that the effect due to these rays,.if it exists at all , must be very small .
It was desirable therefore to repeat the work under : favourable conditions with a large quantity of radium C. To detect this very penetrating radiation , the following conditions were thought most likely to give the desired result:\mdash ; ( 1 ) A strong source of radium to be placed as near .
the detecting vessel as possible .
This requires the use of as dense a metal as possible as an absorbent of ordinary -rays .
( 2 ) Iotal exclusion of any scattered radiation from entering the electroscope through the sides .
and top .
( 3 ) A detecting vessel which is sensitive and possesses a very low natural leak .
It is essential that the ionisation chamber be large , in order that the air it contains may have a good opportunity of ben ionised by the rays .
The reasons for these conditions are sufficiently obvious , and need not be discussed at length .
The source used at the commencement of the experiments was about 300 millicuries of emanation .
Mercury was employed as absorber of the -rays , as it has a greater density than any Other common metal ; and , therefore , a given thickness of this metal absorbs more -rays than the same thickness , say , of lead .
The effect of scattered radiation was obviated by surrounding the source of rays on every side by at least 10 cm .
of mercury .
This reduced the rays moving in every direction to a very small percentage of their original ensity .
Any scattered radiation , produced by the rays which escaped , completely absorl , ed by the thick lead walls of the electroscope .
On p. is given a of the apparatu:s the chief experiment .
A is a cylindrical pot of cast iro .
, of inside diameter cm .
, and height cm .
When filled to the top it held kgrm .
of me On top of this pot was laid a.oircular disc of lead cm .
in diameter and 1 cm .
in thickness .
A large electroscope of the ordinary type was placed on the disc .
The lead used for the disc and for the electroscope was the oldest procurable , in order that the latter might have .
as low natural leak as possible .
The electroscope had an inside diameter of 20 cm .
, an inside height of cm .
, and a wall thickness of sides and top of 1 cm .
It contained litres of air .
The leaf system consisted of a strip of brass , 1912 .
] Power of the -Rays from Radium 7 cm .
long , to which was attached a gold leaf , 6 cm .
long .
Insulation was effected by means of a small bead of sulphur .
Two cylinders of lead , 6 cm .
long and 3 cm .
inside diameter , and 1 cm .
wall thickness , encircled the windows to prevent any scattered radiation from entering .
The windows were circular and of the wme diameter as the lead cylinders .
The latter were just large enough to allow the reading microscope to be inserted .
The microscope used had a nification of about The source of radium emanation was contained in two sealed glass tubes , , which could be attached by means of string to one end of an iron rod .
The rod was connected by a clamp at to a stand , and bent in such a way that , by raising or lowering , the radium could be raised or lowered centrally in the mercury .
By means of the glass apparatus , which contained a tap , the-mercury could be added to the pot by pouring it in through , or withdrawn by siphoning it off through F. The pot was carefully made and had .
very uniform diameter .
From the weight added or withdrawn from the pot , therefore , the increase or decrease of thickness of the mercury covering the radium could be easily calculated .
The natural leak of the electroscope was division per minute , which was considered low for an instrument of these dimensions .
One millicurie of emanation at a distance of 25 cm .
below the lead base of the electroscope gave a leak of 36 divisions per minute .
Mr. A. S. Russell .
The Penetrating [ Nov. 14 ; Attempts to Detect the very Penetrating Radiation .
Two different experiments were made to detect the very penetrating radiation .
The first was done at atmospheric pressure with the apparatus described above , the second was done with an ionisation chamber at high pressure .
The first experiment was carried out as follows : The pot was filled to the top with mercury , and the natural leak measured three times for intervals of about 40 minutes each , with the source of radium removed entirely from the laboratory .
The radium was then inserted to a depth of 20 cm .
below the meroury , and the leak measured a period of 20 minutes .
The value of the leak obtained was considerably higher than the natural leak .
The radium was then lowered to various depths , the leaks being carefully measured at each position , until a depth was reached at which there was no difference between the leak measured and the natural leak .
The results actually obtained are given in the accompanying table:\mdash ; Table I. Natural leak , division per It is seen that at a depth of 25 cm .
the ionisation due to the -radiation is only 7 per cent. of the natural leak of the electroscope .
At greater depths this leak disappears entirely .
There is , therefore , no -radiation capable of penetrating 27 cm .
of mercury and of being detected in the electroscope used .
The experiment shows also the complete absence of any secondary radiation entering the electroscope otherwise than through the base .
An ionisation chamber capable of withstanding a pressure of 80 atmospheres , was next used instead of the electroscope as a debecting vessel .
The apparatus was kindly placed at my disposal by Mr. D. C. H. Florance , .
who employed it in a research whioh will soon bs published .
Inside the pressure chamber were mounted centrally two concentric cylinders of brass .
The outer one was cm .
long and cm .
in diam.eter .
inner one cm .
long and cm .
in diameter .
The former was charged to a 1912 .
] Power of the Radium potential of 1500 volts , the latter was connected to one pair of quadrants of a sensitive Dolezalek electrometer .
The pressure chamber itself was earthed .
Ionisation took place in the space between the cylinders .
The pressure in the chamber was kept constant at 80 atmospheres .
This arrangement is not so sensitive as the large electroscope , but it was used for two reasons .
It is possible that the very penetrating rays might ionise dense ases only .
Secondly , a large quantity of incident and emergent -radiation from the very penetrating -rays might be produced when they strike the brass cylinders .
Such radiation when produced would be an efficient ioniser of a gas at high pressure .
When the radium was sunk to a depth of 26 cm .
in the mercury , however , the leak of the electrometer was exactly the natural leak .
No trace whatever of any radiation could be detected .
I have to thank Mr. Florance for kindly making the necessary measurements for me .
The Absorption of the -Rays by Mercury .
The absorption of the -rays of radium by mercury over a lange of thickness of cm .
was next investigated .
The radium was inserted centrally below the electroscope at a distance of 25 cm .
and the pot filled with mercury .
The leak was then measured .
Ten kilogrammes of mercury were then siphoned off , and the leak agairi measured .
More mercury was then siphoned off , and again the leak taken .
This was continued until the leak was too large to measure .
Smaller quantities of radium were then substituted for the larger quantity , and the absorption measurements continued till only 6 cm .
covered the radium .
At this stage a smaller lead electroscope , having a volume one-fifth of that of the , was substituted for it , and used for the absorption measurements from 1 to 6 cm .
This was necessitated by the powerful nature of the source used .
Experiments were conducted usually so that the leak was about 10 divisions per minute at the commencemen , and about 1 division per minute or less at the end , of the range of thickness investigated .
With the larger electroscope it was essential that the leaks should not be too great , owing to a possible lack of saturation in so great a volume of air .
The results obtained are given in the table that follows : In the first column is put the range of thickness density of mercury covering the radium .
The values given are obtained directly from the weight of mercury and the dimensions of the pot .
In the second column are put the values of the absorption coefficient divided by density of mercury .
All thickness $es in the tables which follow are given in centimetres , and all values of are c .Mr .
A. S. The Table IL The values of were obtained as follows : logarithms of the ionisation were plotted against the product of thickness and density .
OIi the average there was a point for every 12 units of thickness density .
From this line the mean value of over the range under investigation was obtained .
Each of the five experiments was separately carried out , and is quite distinct from the other four .
It is seen that the values of do not diffel by more than about 2 per cent. over the entire range investigated .
Two examples showing how closely the exponential law of absorption holds are given in the two following tables .
The first table deals with the first part of the range investigated , the second with the last part .
In the first column of each table is given the absolute thickness density of mercury over the radium , in the second the observed values of the ionisation , and in the third the calculated values .
For convenience , the observed value of the ionisation for the smallest thickness density is in both tables put at I000 .
The theoretical values are obtained from the usual equation , Table III.\mdash ; Range of Thickness Density , to 1912 .
] Power of the -Rays from Radium Table \mdash ; Range of Thickness Density , to 307 .
Since for mercury , is c thickness density of , or a thickness of cm .
mercury , therefore , cuts the -rays of radium down to half value .
Over the range to 307 of thickness density , the -radiation is reduced in the ratio of 360,000 to 1 .
Under the conditions of experiment , the leak due to the -rays from 300 millicuries of emanation in the electroscope was divisions per minute through a thickness density of 183 , and of division per minute through 307 .
The radiation from 300 millicuries , if unabsorbed by mercury , would produce10,800 divisions per minute in the electroscope .
The radiation , capable of penetrating thicknesses greater than cm .
of mercury , is therefore less than :10800 , i.e. is less than of the initial -ray beam .
The value of for mercury , cm .
, is 7 per cent. less than a value given in a previous paper by Soddy and Russell .
* In the former research the source of radium used was less than half a milligramme , and the absorption over the first 3 cm .
only could be investigated .
The mean value of for mercury , cm .
, is very similar to the mean value obtained in a previous research for a range of 2 to 22 cm .
of lead , namely c. The results of this paper , both with regard to the absence of a very penetrating radiation , and to the absorption of the rays by an element of high atomic weight , confirm and extend the results previously obtained with lead as an absorbent .
Beyond a thickness of cm .
of mercury it will be difficult to detect -rays even if large quantities of * F. Soddy and A. S. Russell , ' Phil. Mag 1909 , vol. 18 , p. 644 .
VOL LXXXVIIL\mdash ; A. The Penetrating Power of the -Rays from Radium radium are forthcoming .
the electroscope used in these experiments , the leak due to the -rays from 10 .
of radium would be only 4 per cent. of the natural leak , after they had penetrated cm .
of mercury .
Summar ?
y. ( 1 ) The -rays of radium are absorbed by mercury over a range of thickness of 1 to cm .
strictly according to an law .
The mean value of is .
Over this range the intensity is diminished in the ratio of 360,000 to 1 .
2 ) No trace of any radiation more penetrating than -rays could be detected .
If any exists , and is capable of ionising air , its intensity is less than of that of the initial -ray beam .
I have to express my warmest thanks to the Castner-Kellner Alkali Company of Runcorn for loaning me .
of pure mercury , and for making for me the cast iron pot which contained it .
But for their generosity in this matter , the present research could not have been carried out .
I have also to express my thanks to Prof. Rutherford , in whose laboratory this work was carried out , for his gestions and advice .

