224 Mr. H. Tomlinson .
Influence of [ Mar. 31 than what one might have expected , is the very great distance to which the point 1 descends at ordinary temperatures .
It would be interesting to compare the forms of these parts of the curve for several liquids , and see whether there was any connexion between it and the capillarity .
HI- " Tlle Influence of Stress and Strain on the Physical Properties of Matter .
Part III .
Magnetic Induction .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received March 17 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The ^ author lays before the Society the results of experiments extending over a period of ten years on the effects of stress and strain on the magnetic permeabilities of iron , nickel , and cobalt .
Two methods were employed .
In one the metal to be tested\#151 ; usually in the form of wire\#151 ; was placed with its axis coincident with that of a magnetising solenoid , in most cases of considerable length as compared with the diameter of the wire ; round the central portion of the solenoid was wrapped a secondary coil .
A similar pair of primary and secondary coils , with a similar piece of the same specimen of metal , was balanced against the nrst by means of resistance coils , so that on closing the magnetising circuit no deflection was produced in a delicate Thomson s galvanometer suitably connected up with the resistance coils and secondary coils .
The alteration of magnetic permeability produced by stress was measured by the change necessary to be made in the resistance coils in order to restore the balance .
In the second method the resistance coils were dispensed with , and only a metal core used in one of the two pairs of solenoids which were connected in series each to each .
The arrangements were such that the pairs of solenoids , when without any cores , balanced each other 's effects on the galvanometer , so that the deflections of the latter instrument were due only to the magnetic permeability of the metal to be tested .
The alteration of permeability was in this case measured by the change of deflection produced in the Thomson 's galvanometer .
The second method was the one principally employed .
In all cases , where it is advisable , the results are either given in C.G.S. units , or data are supplied for reducing to these units ; moreover , the author has endeavoured to separate , as far as possible , the effects of stress on the 'permanent and on the temporary permeabilities of 1887 .
] Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
the metals , * which effects are for the most part opposite in nature .
The paper is illustrated by a large number of curves showing the relations between magnetic permeability and stress and strain at different temperatures from 0 ' C. to 300 ' C. and upwards .
The information conveyed by these curves it is impossible to adequately represent in an abstract , but the following are among the chief conclusions arrived at:\#151 ; 1 .
When there is no permanent load on an iron wire , and the magnetising force is small , longitudinal traction of small amount increases the temporary permeability .
The increase reaches a maximum very quickly , as the load increases when further loading begins to diminish the magnetic permeability , until a certain limit has been reached , for which the permeability is a minimum .
If the load be carried beyond the above limit the permeability begins to increase again with the load .
As a consequence of the above , when the magnetising force is small there are two critical values of load for which the load produces no effect on the temporary permeability .
2 .
The first of the two critical values of loading mentioned above diminishes with increase of magnetising force , and finally vanishes when the latter reaches a certain limit .
On the contrary , the second critical value of loading increases with the magnetising force .
3 .
The maximum of temporary permeability mentioned in 1 diminishes as the magnetising force increases , and occurs at a less and less degree of loading until the latter begins to produce decrease instead of increase of permeability .
The minimum of temporary magnetic permeability , on the contrary , increases with the magnetising force , but , like the maximum , occurs with a lower amount of load the higher the magnetising force , 4 .
The effects mentioned in 1 , 2 , and 3 as being produced by loading , are modified when a comparatively small load is left permanently on the wire .
The modifications are stated in 5 , 6 , and 7 .
5 .
For small magnetising forces loading produces no effect on the temporary magnetic permeability , unless carried beyond a certain limit .
Beyond this limit further loading suddenly begins to increase the permeability .
6 .
For all values of the magnetising force the first critical value of loading vanishes .
The second critical value of loading increases with the magnetising force , but for a given magnetising force is much lower than when there is no permanent load .
* By the terms permanent and ' temporary permeabilities are meant the permeability for permanent magnetisation , and the permeability for temporary magnetisation respectively .
VOL. XLII .
Mr. H. Tomlinson .
Influence of [ Mar. 31 7 .
The minimum temporary permeability increases with the mag-netisingforce up to a certain limit of the latter , hut beyond this limit decreases .
8 .
The permanent magnetic permeability is increased by loading , the amount of increase per cent , being very large for small magnetising forces and moderate loads , but diminishing as the magnetising force increases .
9 .
The increase of permanent magnetic permeability mentioned in 8 rises in greater proportion than the load up to a certain limit of the latter .
Beyond this limit it rises in less proportion than the load , and eventually ceases to rise with increase of load ; the value of the load at which this last occurs decreases as the magnetising force is increased .
10 .
For a wide range of loading , the effect of the stress on the permanent permeability is opposite in direction to the effect on the temporary permeability .
Consequently loading may be found to pro-duce either increase or decrease of permeability according as the permeability we are considering is temporary or permanent .
Similarly the total magnetic permeability , since it includes both temporary and permanent permeabilities , may be affected by loading in the contrary direction to the temporary magnetic permeability , and the more so as the effects of loading on the permanent magnetic permeability are very much larger than those on the temporary magnetic permeability for a rather wide range both of loading and of magnetising force .
11 .
The effect of loading\#151 ; even when carried to a great extent\#151 ; on the temporary permeability of unannealed piano-steel is very small , provided the wire be not permanently stretched by the load .
12 .
The effect of loading on the magnetic permeability of annealed iron varies very considerably with the amount of previous strain to which the metal has been subjected .
13 .
When the magnetising force is very considerable and the load small , permanent extension , resulting from previous loading , causes the diminution of temporary permeability produced by the load to be much increased ; also the maximum diminution which can be temporarily produced by loading is increased .
When , however , the temporary load exceeds a certain limit , the diminution of temporary permeability produced by the load is lessened by permanent extension .
Further , the load which produces maximum diminution of temporary permeability may be considerably lessened by permanent extension .
14 .
When the magnetising force is small the permanent strain may change increase of temporary magnetic permeability resulting from .
loading to decrease , provided the load does not exceed a certain limit .
1887 .
] Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
When the above-mentioned limit is exceeded the effect of the permanent strain is reversed .
15 .
The effects mentioned in 12 , 13 , and 14 are for the most part really the results of subpermanent molecular , and can be in great measure removed by severely shaking the wire .
16 .
The permanent molecular strain which is left on the removal of any load , produces , both for low and high magnetising forces , a permanent diminution of magnetic permeability increasing , with the strain up to a certain amount of the latter .
When , however , the strain is such that the wire is sensibly increased in length , the temporary permeability increases considerably , and the permanent permeability diminishes considerably up to a second limit of permanent strain , when once more decrease of temporary permeability sets in .
17 .
The first maximum of the decrease of permeability mentioned in 16 at first decreases with increase of the magnetising force to nearly zero ; it increases again , however , if we exceed a certain limit of magnetising force .
On the contrary , the maximum increase of temporary permeability at first rises with the magnetising force until the permeability is more than doubled , when it begins to fall as the magnetising force is pushed further .
18 .
Mere rest after permanent extension has little or no effect on the alteration of the temporary permeability which is produced by loading , whereas it very perceptibly increases the longitudinal elasticity of iron .
19 .
For magnetising forces not exceeding a certain limit there are , for all temperatures between 0 ' C. and 300 ' C. , two critical values of loading for which no alteration in the temporary permeability is produced by the load ( see 1 ) .
The value of the load at the first critical point diminishes , and that at the second critical point increases , as the temperature is raised from 0 ' C. to 100 ' C. but as the temperature is raised still further the first critical load becomes greater and the second becomes less , until at some temperature between 250 ' 0 .
and 300 ' C. the two critical points coincide .
20 .
For magnetising forces exceeding a certain limit the two critical points of loading approach each other , at first slowly and then rapidly , with increase of temperature from 0 ' C. to 300 ' C. Both critical loads diminish with rise of temperature , but the second more rapidly than the first .
21 .
The effect of loading on the permanent permeability diminishes with rise of temperature from 0 ' C. to 300 ' C. 22 .
As the magnetising force increases , the total magnetic permeability of annealed iron which has not been previously magnetised rises to a maximum and then begins to decline .
The maximum permeabiMr .
H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of [ Mar. 31 lity seems to occur at nearly the same point of magnetic intensity for different specimens of well-annealed iron of good magnetic permeability , but not at the same point of magnetising force .
23 .
When an iron wire has received previous magnetisation the point of maximum permeability occurs with a higher and higher magnetising force as the previous permanent magnetisation increases .
The point of maximum permeability also occurs at a higher degree of magnetic intensity when the wire has been previously subjected to a high magnetising force .
24 .
Besides a point of maximum total permeability there is a point of maximum temporary permeability which occurs a little before the first-mentioned point .
24 and 23 are in accordance with Maxwell 's extension of Weber 's theory .
25 .
The temporary permeability is diminished by previous permanent or subpermanent magnetisation in the same direction .
The effect above mentioned may be very considerable , provided the magnetising force lies between certain limits .
26 .
When the wire is well shaken after having been previously magnetised by a strong force the temporary permeability is considerably restored , and is , moreover , much more nearly a constant for different values of the magnetising force than it was either previously to shaking or previously to suffering permanent magnetisation .
27 .
More than 90 per cent , of the whole magnetisation imparted by a given force to annealed iron maybe permanent or subpermanent provided the magnetising force has a certain moderate value.* When , however , the force is very large the percentage of permanent magnetism is much diminished .
28 .
When an iron wire is loaded to a certain limit longitudinal magnetisation has no effect on the thermo-electrical qualities of the metal .
The limit of loading mentioned above seems to be the same for a given magnetising force , as that at which magnetisation has no effect bn the dimensions of the wire .
29 .
The general features of the curves showing the relation between temporary magnetic permeability and load are the same for nickel as for iron .
30 .
There are two critical points of loading at which the load has no effect on the temporary magnetic permeability of nickel .
31 .
The load at the first critical point diminishes with diminution of the magnetising force and finally vanishes .
* This has been already noticed by Ewing ( 'Phil .
Trans. , * 1885 , Part II ) , in whose important memoir other points of interest connected with magnetic induction which are mentioned in this paper have been also discussed .
1887 .
] Stress and Strain on the Properties of .
229 On the contrary the load at the second critical point increases as the magnetising force diminishes .
32 .
The effect of increasing the magnetising force on both the first and second critical loads is therefore opposite in direction to the effect in the case of iron .
33 .
Similarly the effects mentioned in 3 are opposite in direction in nickel and in iron .
34 .
Rise of temperature from 0 ' C. to 300 ' C. increases the maxi* mum increase of temporary magnetic permeability , which can be effected by loading nickel wire , and diminishes the maximum decrease .
35 .
With nickel as with iron the magnetic permeability is not constant , but reaches a maximum .
The magnetising force which produces maximum permeability is greater with nickel than with iron , but the magnetic intensity at the point of maximum permeability is less with nickel than with iron .
36 .
Nickel wire can by shaking be mote effectually de-magnetised than iron .
37 .
Well annealed nickel is capable of retaining subpermanently a very large percentage of the whole magnetisation imparted .
The maximum percentage retained is , however , not so great as with iron .
38 .
At a certain temperature the magnetic permeability of nickel Vanishes .
The temperature at which this occurs seems to be higher the higher the magnetising force .
This last , however , may perhaps be due to impurities in the nickel .
39 .
The magnetic permeability of nickel rises with the temperature to a maximum and then diminishes .
The temperature at which maximum permeability occurs diminishes as the magnetising force increases .
40 .
The temporary effects of compression on the temporary magnetic permeabilities of iron , nickel , and cobalt , are in the opposite direction to the effects of extension , provided neither the mechanical nor the magnetic stress exceeds a certain amount .
41 .
The temporary effect of traction transverse to the line of magnetisation on the magnetic permeability of iron , is opposite in direction to the effect of traction in the same line as the magnetisation .
42 .
Temporary torsion beyond a certain limit ( see 44 ) increases the temporary magnetic permeability of iron .
The amount of increase may become very large if the wire has previously suffered permanent torsion or permanent magnetisation in the opposite direction .
43 .
Permanent torsion decreases the temporary magnetic permeability. .
The amount of decrease may become very large if the 230 Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
[ Mar 31 wire has previously received permanent torsion in the opposite direction .
44 .
There is for all but very large magnetising forces a critical point of torsion , for which temporary torsion does not affect the temporary magnetic permeability .
45 .
When the critical point of torsion is passed , the temporary permeability increases with the torsion at first more rapidly than the torsion , and afterwards more slowly until a maximum is reached and the permeability begins to decline .
46 .
When the wire has previously suffered excessive permanent torsion , temporary torsion which has before produced increase of permeability now produces decrease .
47 .
The effect of temporary torsion on the temporary permeability of unannealed piano-steel wire is in the same direction as with annealed iron which has suffered excessive permanent torsion ( see 46 ) .
48 .
For a wide range of torsion the temporary permeability and the permanent permeability of annealed iron are oppositely affected by temporary torsion .
49 .
Fluid pressure does not temporarily affect either the temporary magnetic permeability of annealed iron , or the permanent magnetisation of hard steel , except , it may be , to a degree which is not comparable with that of the effect of stress applied in any one direction .
50 .
The application , however , or the removal of fluid stress like that of the stresses of compression , extension , and torsion , shakes out from annealed iron a certain amount of residual magnetism .
IV .
" Note on a New Constituent of Blood Seram .
" By L. C. Wooldridge , M.D. , D.Sc .
, Research Scholar to the Grocers ' Company .
Communicated by Dr. Pye- Smith , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1887 .
I wish in the present note to draw attention to a proteid substance which exists in very small quantity in blood serum .
Owing to the difficulty of obtaining a sufficient amount , I shall not attempt to give a complete description of its chemical characters , but shall confine myself chiefly to its physiological properties which , I venture to suggest , possess considerable interest .
It is obtained by rendering undiluted serum distinctly acid by means of dilute acetic or very dilute ( 4 pro mill ) sulphuric acid .
Neutralisation does not cause its precipitation ; the serum must have a strong acid reaction .
It is constantly present in the serum of dog 's blood , and when collected by the centrifuge it is precisely similar in physical characters to ordinary

