452 On the Residues of Powers of s , [ May 5 The linear momentum of the cyclic motion is also found to he 7T\lt ; ?Kp| 1 -4 ( V+ 1 ) V-4X\#151 ; +25X'~2 V , *0 .
| .
A few cases of motion of the ring are then discussed .
6 .
The annular form , of fluid rotating in relative equilibrium is next considered , when the radius of the mean circle of the ring is at least twice as great as the mean radius of the cross-section .
The equation of the cross-section is assumed to be P \#151 ; a ( 1 +ftcos x+#jC0s2x+------ ) , where / b , / 32 , \amp ; c. , are small quantities .
Taking the centre of gravity of the cross-section as origin , A is seen to be of the 5th order , and it is shown that , as far as the 4th order , o 75 V -f- 90 Xp -f- 23 ^4 The shape of the cross-section is roughly elliptical , the major axis of the ellipse being perpendicular to the axis of revolution .
V. " On the Residues of Powers of Numbers for any Composite Modulus , Real or Complex .
" By Geoffrey T. Bennett , B.A. Communicated by Professor CAYLEY , P.R.S. Received April 8 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The present work consists of two parts , with an Appendix to the second .
Part I deals with real numbers , Part II with complex .
In the simple cases , when the modulus is a real number which is an odd prime , a power of an odd prime , or double the power of an odd prime , we know that there exist primitive roots of the Presents .
45a 1892 .
] modulus : that is , that there are numbers whose successive powers have for their rests the complete set of numbers less than , and prime to the modulus .
A primitive root may he said to generate by its successive powers the complete set of rests .
It is also known that in general , when the modulus is any composite number , though primitive roots do not exist , there may be laid down a set of numbers , which will here be called generators , the products of powers of which give the complete set of rests prime to the modulus .
The principal object of Part I is to investigate the relations which must subsist among any such set of generators ; to determine the most general form that they can take ; to show how to form any such set of generators , and , conversely , to furnish tests for the efficiency , as generators , of any given set of numbers .
Other results which are obtained as instrumental in effecting these objects , such as the determination of the number of numbers that belong to any exponent , may also possess independent interest .
The object of Part II is to make , for complex numbers , an investigation which shall be as nearly as possible parallel to that of Part I for real numbers .
Much of the work of Part I may be applied immediately to complex numbers ; of the rest some will need slight modification , and some will need replacing by propositions leading to corresponding results .
Of those cases which thus call for independent treatment , the most noticeable is that of the modulus ( l ON which is the complex analogue of the real modulus 2* .
The work is put in the form of a series of propositions , and is started almost from first principles .
The early part is consequently elementary , but the advantages of completeness and ease of reference may be more than sufficient to compensate for this .
A large number of illustrative examples are given .
These will sometimes , perhaps , assist in elucidating the symbolical proofs which they follow : in all cases they will help to maintain clearly the actual arithmetical meaning of the results arrived at , a meaning which may easily seem obscure if it be noticed only in its symbolical and generalised form .
The Appendix contains tables of indices for complex numbers for all moduli whose norms do not exceed 100 .
Presents , May 5 , 1892 .
Transactions .
Baltimore Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
No. 97 .
4to .
Baltimore 1892 .
The University .
CataniaAccademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali .
Bullettmo Mensile .
Ease 23-25 .
8vo .
Catania 1892 .
The Academy .
Cracow Academy des Sciences .
Bulletin International .
Fevner , 1892 .
8vo .
Cracovie 1892 .
The Academy .

