20 Mr. J. N. Langley .
[ Apr. 27 , April 27,1882 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. Lord Bramwell and Dr. Ramsay H. Traquair were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Attitudes of Animals in Motion .
" By Eadweard Muybridge , of Palo Alto , California .
Communicated by The President .
Received April 20 , 1882 .
II .
" Preliminary Account of the Structure of the Cells of the Liver , and the Changes which take place in them under Various Conditions .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. Michael Foster , Sec. R.S. Received April 24 , 1882 .
I have examined the structure of the liver-cells in the frog , toad , newt , the common snake , the grey lizard , the roach and smelt , the pigeon , and various mammals .
In all these the " resting liver cells have the following common points of structure .
The protoplasm is arranged in the form of a network or honeycomb , the meshes or spaces of which are in all parts of the cell of much the same size ; the outer parts of the cell are formed of a thin layer of slightly modified protoplasm with which , however , the network is continuous .
The spaces of the protoplasmic network are occupied by paraplasm or interfibrillar substance , consisting of ( 1 ) spherical granules , probably proteid in nature ; ( 2 ) spherical globules of fat ; ( 8 ) hyaline substance , filling up the spaces not occupied by the granules or globules .
This substance consists partly of glycogen and in part probably of a proteid .
This description differs in several points from those given by previous observers .
The account given by Klein* resembles it moie * Klein , " Quart .
Journ. Med. Sc. , " N.S. , xix , p. 161 , 1879 .
1882 .
] On the Structure of the Cells of the Liver .
nearly than any other .
Klein described the liver-cells of mammals as consisting of a protoplasmic network and of a hyaline interfibrillar substance ; any apparent granules present he considered to be nodal points of the network .
In preparations made after Klein 's methods the granules are in fact with difficulty , or not at all , to be made out .
They are , however , very obvious in fresh teased or in osmic acid specimens , especially in such specimens of the liver of the mole .
Previous to Klein 's account of the mammalian liver-cells , Kupffer* described the liver-cells of the frog as consisting of a protoplasmic network and of hyaline paraplasm .
He figures the network as being very irregular , with small granules in its bars , as being completely absent from considerable portions of the cell , and as having much finer meshes in the outer part of the cell around the nucleus .
Kupffer 's observations were made upon the tissue treated with , osmic acid 01 with 10 per cent , salt solution and iodine .
In sections of a frog 's liver hardened in osmic acid I find the cells to consist of a slightly stained mass , in which granules and fat globules are imbedded .
Treatment wdth other reagents shows that this slightly stained mass really consists of a network , and interfibrillar substance , the latter not in a granular form , but occupying the spaces in the network unoccupied by the granules and globules .
If the liver is exposed for some time before it is placed in osmic acid , the granules are no longer distinct ; an irregular network-like structure is formed out of them .
This may possibly be the network of Kupffer .
Further , in the liver-cells of a healthy , hungry ( not fasting ) frog the protoplasmic network stretches fairly equally throughout all parts of the cell ; in -winter frogs which have long fasted ( cf. below , p. 22 ) the network has wider spaces and thinner bars in one part of the cell than in the other ; but then the wider meshes are found in the outer , and not in the inner part of the cell and are not absent from any cell region .
Lastly , in osmic acid specimens of such cells the outer parts appear homogeneous , except for fat globules , the inner zone is crowded with distinct granules .
Hence it is obvious that the network of protoplasm and the paraplasm described by Kuplfer do not in the least correspond to the network of protoplasm and interfibrillar substance- described by myself .
Whilst the liver-cells of all classes of vertebrates which I have examined have the above-mentioned common characters in the " resting " state , they have certain minor distinguishing characters in each class , depending chiefly upon the size of the cells and their nuclei , the position of the nuclei , and the relative amount of the various cell-constituents present .
Of these , however , I do not propose to give an account here .
Hearing , in 1867 , pointed out that the liver in all vertebrates except * Kupffer , " Festschrift an Carl Ludwig , " 1875 .
22 Mr. J. N. Langley .
[ Apr. 27 , mammals is an anastomosing tabular gland .
Hence we should expect that the changes which take place during digestion in the liver of an amphibian , reptile , fish , or bird should differ somewhat from those which take place during digestion in the liver of a mammal .
I have taken the liver of the frog and toad as an example of the tubular gland form , and have made observations on this during the last two years and a half .
How nearly the changes which take place in other " tubular " livers resemble those which take place in the " tubular " livers of the frog and toad can of course only be decided by direct observation ; but it seems unlikely that the change should take any very different course , since the resting state of the cells and their arrangement in the gland is so very nearly the same .
The Liver of the Frog .
The liver of the frog and that of the newt can be observed while the blood continues to circulate through it ; in this state nothing is seen in the cells except the fat globules ; if a small piece be teased out in salt solution , the faintly outlined granules are seen floating in the fluid ; these become obvious on adding iodine .
The best method for bringing out the granules and fat globules is to place a small piece of the liver in osmic acid , 1 per cent. , for a day , to transfer it to alcohol for several days , and then to prepare sections ; in such sections the granules and globules appear to be imbedded in homogeneous cell substance .
The granules are largest in the liver of the newt , so that the liver of this animal is best adapted to show that the granules are not the nodal points of the network .
The network of the cell is brought out most distinctly by chromic acid , 0*5 per cent. ; it can also be seen in specimens hardened in picric acid , alcohol , mercuric chloride , or in teased out specimens of a liver which has been treated with neutral ammonium chromate , 5 per cent. When a section of the liver which contains glycogen , and which has been hardened in acohol or osmic acid , is placed for some minutes in iodine solution , certain parts of the interfibrillar substance of the liver-cells stain red-brown .
The substance which is so stained I conclude to be glycogen .
By water , even at 30 ' C. , it is only slowly dissolved .
Since isolated glycogen is readily soluble in water , this might lead us to think that the red-staining substance is not glycogen ; but we know that glycogen is not readily extracted from the liver by warm water , and hence it seems probable that a large part of the glycogen of the liver exists in it in a form not very soluble in water ; but , whatever may be the condition of glycogen in the liver , I think I am justified in concluding that the red-staining substance in alcohol specimens is glycogen , since glycogen can be extracted from them , since the amount of the red-staining substance varies directly with the amount of glycogen which can be extracted , since the coloration 1882 .
] On the Structure of the Cells of the Liver .
is just that produced when iodine is added to a little purified glycogen on a glass slide , and since it is rapidly dissolved by amylolytic ferment , such as an aqueous or glycerine extract of the parotid of a rabbit .
During the summer months the liver of a hungry frog has granules scattered equally throughout the cell , and there is very little glycogen .
During the long winter fast the cells change in appearance ; the granules become more and more confined to the inner part of the cell , and form there a marked inner granular zone .
The glycogen increases in amount , and is stored up chiefly in the outer part of the cell , where there are no granules .
Osmic acid specimens of glands in this condition show two distinct zones , an inner granular one and an outer , apparently homog'eneous , one ; the nucleus lies at the border of the two , or if the outer zone is large lies in it alone .
When such a specimen is treated with iodine , all or nearly all of the outer zone ' stains red-brown ; around the granules also a varying amount of red-brown stained substance is found ; the network of the inner zone , the granules , and the nucleus stain yellow .
In these specimens the network of the outer part of the cell cannot at all , or only very imperfectly be made out .
It is , however , seen in sections of the gland which have been hardened in chromic acid .
It is continuous with the network of the inner part of the cell , but has wider spaces , and its bars are finer .
We know that in the oesophageal glands of the frog and in such gastric glands as have been investigated on the point , the changes which take place in the cells in fasting closely resemble the changes which take place in them during digestion .
So here , in the liver of the frog , the changes which take place when the animal is fed closely resemble those gradually established during the winter fasting period .
The extent of the changes occurring in digestion depends greatly upon the state of the liver cells before the animal is fed ; in summer the changes are slight , there is only a slight decrease of granules in the outer part of the cell and a slight increase of glycogen .
The changes are much more marked when the cells have to start with a small outer non-granular zone ; in such cases in the 6th to 8th hour of digestion the outer zone is large , and in the 24th to 30th the cells become granular throughout .
When a frog which has already a large outer non-granular zone is fed the decrease of granules usually lasts a shorter time , and in the 6th to 8th hour of digestion the granules begin to increase .
In other words , the using up and formation of granules go on at different relative rates in different nutritive conditions of the body .
The disappearance of granules and the formation of glycogen which takes place in winter frogs is only partly brought about by the absence of food ; it is brought about in part perhaps chiefly by the low temperature .
If winter frogs , the liver-cells of which have few 24 Mr. J. N. Langley .
[ Apr. 27 , granules and much glycogen , are kept at about 20 ' C. for a week to a fortnight , the cells become granular throughout and the glycogen largely disappears ; similarly frogs in spring or autumn , the liver-cells of which have many granules and little glycogen , if kept at a low temperature a week to a fortnight , present in the cells of the liver an outer non-granular zone and an increase of glycogen ; in summer frogs the effect is much less .
Further , the changes during digestion are slight in winter frogs that have been kept in the warm , greater in spring and autumn frogs which have been kept in the cold .
Although , generally speaking , a decrease of granules goes hand-in-hand with an increase of glycogen and an increase of granules with a decrease of glycogen , yet a certain amount of variation in the one may take place without any variation or any corresponding variation in the other .
Hence I regard the formation of granules and the formation of glycogen as independent processes .
A comparison of the changes which take place in the granules of the liver-cells with the changes which take place in the granules of the salivary , gastric , and pancreatic glands leaves me with no'doubt that the granules of the liver-cells are destined to give rise to some constituent or constituents of the bile , and it seems to me more than probable that by appropriate chemical treatment , we may obtain from them some one or more of the constituents of the bile-salts .
In the account I have just given I have omitted all mention of the fat globules .
These vary so much with different conditions of the body , as yet unknown , that it is extremely difficult to determine what changes in their number and position take place during digestion .
It is well known that there is in winter an increase in the amount of fat in the liver .
.Generally speaking , in summer the fat globules are small , few , and fairly equally scattered throughout the cell , with a tendency to be more numerous around the lumen .
In winter frogs the greatest variation occurs , occasionally there are very few , usually there are a considerable number , not unfrequently the cells are crowded with them , this is .generally the case with obviously unhealthy frogs .
Further , in the most common condition , that in which the fat globules are fairly numerous without being crowded together in the cells , they may occur almost entirely in the inner or almost entirely in the outer part of the cell .
In the former case they make a conspicuous fat globule zone about the lumen , in the latter they occur in conspicuous clumps close to the outer cell-border ; this is generally the case when one has reason to suppose that fat is increasing in the cells .
If winter frogs are kept in the warm , the fat globules diminish in number ; if summer frogs are kept in the cold for a week to a fortnight , there is a slight , but only a slight , increase in the quantity of fat .
The majority of frogs which are fed in the summer show little or no change in the number or size of fat globules in the liver .
1882 .
] On the Structure of the Cells of the Liver .
In winter the amount of fat in the liver varies so much in frogs apparently alike , that I do not feel justified in drawing any conclusions as to the changes occurring in digestion .
The only other vertebrates with liver of the tubular type on which I have made a series of observations , are the toad and newt .
The changes in the liver of the toad are in all essential respects the same as those I have described for the liver of the frog .
In the newt 's liver I have not observed the formation of zones during digestion ; it appears to me to depart largely from the tubular type of gland , and to resemble in structure rather the mammalian than the ordinary amphibian liver .
In the snake during the winter 's fast , an outer non-granular zone makes its appearance in the liver tubules ; it is , however , much smaller than that in the frog and toad .
I may mention that the cells of the frog 's bile-duct , where it runs through the pancreas , are ciliated ; the pancreatic duct with conciliated cells joins it close to the small intestine .
The Mammalian Liver .
In the mole the granules of the liver are conspicuous , and are preserved by osmic acid ; in the dog , cat , and rabbit the granules are more or less altered , hence I have chosen the mole to make observations upon as to the changes which take place in digestion .
In the hungry animal the protoplasmic network stretches throughout the cells with nearly equally sized meshes ; in the spaces of the network is a small amount of hyaline substance , partly glycogen , and embedded in this are rather large granules .
When the liver is examined six to eight hours after digestion , there is a greater or less disappearance of granules from the centre of the cell around the nucleus ; the network here has wider spaces and thinner bars , and the spaces are for the most part filled with glycogen .
In cases where these changes are most marked , osmic acid specimens treated with iodine show a diffuse reddish stained mass surrounding the nucleus ; at the borders of the cell , the yellow stained network is seen , and one or two rows of granules ; between these a little red stained substance may usually be traced continuous with the central mass of glycogen ; the peripheral network and granules make the cell appear at first sight as if it had a very thick cell wall .
The network in the central part of the cell is brought out by hardening a piece of the liver in chromic acid and other reagents .
In cells in which the digestive changes are less advanced , the glycogen may only partially surround the nucleus , or may be accumulated more on one side of it than elsewhere .
Histological observations on the increase of glycogen in the liver-cells have been made by Bock and Hofmann , * on the rabbit , and by * Bock u. Hofmann , " Virchow 's Archiv .
, " 56 , s. 201 , 1872 .
On the Structure of the Cells of the Liver , [ Apr. 27 , Kayser , * on the dog .
Bock and Hofmann found that glycogen accumulated in amorphous form around the nucleus , and stretching out from this as a network towards the periphery of the cell .
My own observations confirm this in the main .
I regard , however , the glycogen as being stored up in the spaces of a protoplasmic network .
Bock and Hofmann also mention granules of the liver-cells which stain yellow with iodine , + but they do not appear to have distinguished between these and the protoplasmic network which likewise stains yellow with iodine .
Kayser ( loc. ait .
' ) found that glycogen was stored up in the form of " Schollen oder Kornerthese lumps and granules of glycogen I have not seen ; an appearance simulating this occurs when the glycogen is stored up more in some parts of the protoplasmic network around the nucleus than in others , but these local collections never have , so far as I.have observed , sharply marked boundaries .
The granules are not distinguished by Kayser from the protoplasmic network ; these two together make up , I imagine , the thick peripheral layer of protoplasm described by him as occurring in cells which contain much glycogen .
As in the liver of the frog , So in the mammalian liver , I take the granules to be concerned in the formation of some of the substances found in the bile .
* Kayser .
Quoted by Heidenhain .
" Hermann 's Hdb .
, " Bd .
v , Th. 1 , s. 221 , 1880 .
f Similar granules were also described by Plosz .
" Pfliiger 's Archiv .
, " vii , s. 371 , 1873 .

