354 The Relation between the Crystal-Symmetry of the Simpler Organic Compounds and their Molecular Constitution.\#151 ; Part I. By Walter Wahl , Ph. I ) .
( Communicated by Sir James Dewar , F.R.S. Received March 21 , \#151 ; Read April 17 , 1913 .
) ( From the Davy-Faraday Laboratory of the Eoyal Institution .
) Introduction .
Certain relations between the chemical composition of bodies and their crystalline forms indicate that the crystallographic properties depend in a simple way on the chemical constitution .
There are three distinct relations which principally point towards such a connection .
1 .
The Isomorphism shows that similarly constituted compounds , even of a very complicated chemical composition , crystallise in a very similar way when certain atoms in the molecule are replaced by chemically related atoms .
There are probably few subjects in the whole field of chemistry upon which so much separate evidence has been collected .
As a result of all this research upon isomorphic relationship and isomorphic series , from that of Mitscherlich up to the recent work of Tutton , it may be concluded with a great amount of certainty that to a definite molecular edifice belongs a certain crystalline edifice .
In consequence , the replacement of one or several atoms in such a molecular structure by atoms chemically closely related does not imply more than a slight alteration in the crystal form .
2 .
The Morphotropy ( in the sense of v. Groth ) implies that , if a certain atom or group in a large molecular-complex is replaced by another group , a definite alteration of the crystal-form in a certain crystallographic direction may take place .
This shows that changes in the constitution of a molecule are accompanied by corresponding changes in the crystal-form of the body , and thus also serves to establish the existence of a general relationship between molecular and crystallograpbical build .
* 3 .
The Enantiomorphism.\#151 ; All the substances which in the liquid state or in solution exhibit the property of rotating the plane of polarisation , crystallise as two " enantiomorphic " forms ( Law of Pasteur ) .
When the molecular edifice s hows a lack of symmetry , as a result of which right- and left ' handed modifications exist , the two being mirror-images of each other , a similar lack of symmetry , accompanied by the occurrence of crystals which form mirror- Crystal-Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
images of each other , also exists between its crystallisation products .
Enantiomorphism , therefore , may be regarded as a proof of the existence of a general relationship between molecular and crystallographical properties .
There are , however , at present few data which may be used to correlate the evidence as established separately by isomorphism , morphotropy , and enantiomorphism .
Most of the work on isomorphism has been done on salts and double salts of a complicated nature ; the investigations on morphotropy on organic bodies with a large molecule , mostly those of the aromatic series ; and in those cases in which the crystal-forms of optically active organic bodies have been investigated the molecules are nearly all of great complexity .
The circumstance that nearly all organic bodies of simple chemical composition at ordinary temperatures are gaseous or liquid , and their crystalline properties therefore hitherto unknown , must , of course , be regarded as one of the principal difficulties to be overcome in establishing the facts governing the relationship between their molecular constitution and crystal-form .
As an illustration of how little is really known with regard to the crystalline properties of the simpler organic compounds , it may be noted that in the ' Chemical Crystallography/ edited by von Groth ( of which the recently issued third volume contains all crystallographic data hitherto obtained concerning aliphatic and hydro-aromatic compounds ) , only three methane derivatives are quoted ( carbon tetrabromide , iodoform , and di-isonitramido-methane-dimethylether ) which have not the character of salts containing metallic atoms , such as , for instance , the formates .
In connection with the recent investigations by the author on the crystalline properties of the elements gaseous at ordinary temperature , which have been described in the ' Proceedings of the Eoyal Society/ * some observations were made on certain of the simpler organic compounds of low melting point .
As some interesting observations were made on the relations between the crystalline properties of similarly constituted compounds , and also on the occurrence of polymorphic modifications , the investigation was extended to a larger number of the simpler organic compounds .
The experimental data concerning the aliphatic hydrocarbons are presented in this paper .
The results with regard to the halogen- and nitro-derivatives of methane , together with the general conclusions to be drawn from all these experimental data , will be given in a further communication .
* W. Wahl , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc./ 1912 , A , vol. 87 , p. 371 ; 1913 , A , vol. 88 , p. 61 ; 1913 , A , yoI .
88 , Feb. 26 .
356 Dr. W. Wahl .
Relation between [ Mar. 21 , Experimental Investigation .
In investigating the bodies , gaseous or liquid , at ordinary temperatures , practically the same methods were employed as have been described in ' Proc. Eoy .
Soc. , ' A , vol. 87 , pp. 371-374 and 376-378 .
The solid bodies were brought into the stem of the crystallisation vessel , melted and sucked into the narrow space between the polished quartz-glass plates , and their crystallisation and behaviour on cooling to liquid-air temperature investigated as in the case of the liquids . .
As pointed out in the case of methane , it is necessary to use the substances to be investigated in a very high state of purity in order to be able to study properly their manner of crystallising .
All the gases have therefore been fractionated by using liquid air or solid carbonic acid to condense them , a middle fraction being collected in a small glass gasometer over distilled mercury and used for these investigations .
The liquids were in most cases distilled immediately before investigation , a Young 's still-head in three sections being employed .
The solids were in some instances purified by sublimation in a charcoal-vacuum in a way similar to that described in the case of bromine.* .
Methane.\#151 ; Methane crystallises in the regular system .
The account of the investigation of methane has been published in ' Proc. Eoy .
Soc/ , A , vol. 87 , p. 377 .
It is therefore sufficient to refer to that paper for details .
Ethane.\#151 ; Ethane was prepared in the way described by Frankland , f by reducing ethyl iodide with coppered zinc .
The gas was passed through potassium hydroxide solution and through concentrated sulphuric acid , and then condensed and again boiled off and collected over water in a glass gasometer of the type designed by Bunsen , and of a capacity of about litres .
From here it was passed , for final purification , through a series of small wash-bottles containing bromine under water , a solution of potassium hydroxide , and concentrated sulphuric acid .
From the wash-bottles the gas passed through a tube fitted with a stopcock into a condensing vessel of the wash-bottle type , where it was condensed by cooling with liquid air .
The outlet tube of the condensing vessel was provided with a two-way stopcock leading to a barometer mercury-valve and to a T-piece , which again was in communication through the one branch with a mercury-gasometer of about 100 c.c. capacity and through the other branch , which was provided with a stopcock , with a large Fleuss pump .
When all the gas from the large gasometer condensable at liquid-air temperature had been condensed , after having passed through * 'Eoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 88 , Feb. 26 .
t E. Frankland , 'Liebig 's Ann. , ' vol. 71 , p. 203 ; vol. 85 , p. 360 ; vol. 95 , p. 53 ; and 'Chem .
Soc. Journ. , ' 1885 , vol. 47 , p. 236 .
1913 .
] Crystal-Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
357 the absorption bottles , the stopcock between these and the condensation vessel was closed .
The ethane in the condensation vessel remained liquid in spite of this being immersed in liquid air , which shows that ethane prepared in this way cannot be obtained in a pure state by simply passing it through the absorbing agents mentioned above , and even condensing it once .
When the condensation vessel , however , was evacuated by means of the Fleuss pump , the liquid solidified .
It is probable that the ethane prepared in the above manner contains some methane , but it may also be that when it is condensed in presence of hydrogen , or perhaps also of air , it dissolves a sufficient quantity of the lighter gas to remain liquid at \#151 ; 180 ' .
These circumstances account for the statement concerning ethane , often to be found in the literature , that its melting point lies below the boiling point of liquid air .
All the lower members of the methane series behave in a very similar way , that is , they remain liquid at temperatures very much below their true melting point if purified only by passing through bromine , and condensed for the first time from the gaseous reaction products mixed with air .
By the evacuation following upon the solidification the lighter volatile products were pumped away .
The solid was then melted and the liquid was allowed to boil off gradually from the condensation vessel , the first portions being boiled off through the mercury barometer valve .
A further small portion was then used to wash out the tubes and connections with the mercury gasholder , these being subsequently evacuated .
About 100 c.c. of the middle fraction of the ethane were then collected into the mercury gasholder .
The ethane purified in this way was used for the crystallisation investigations .
It crystallises very readily in fern-like broad blades , growing rapidly in one principal direction .
If rapidly cooled , the liquid can be supercooled and becomes at about \#151 ; 200 ' a glass traversed by numerous cracks .
When the temperature is then allowed to rise spherulitic crystallisation sets in .
If the surface of the liquid air in the Dewar-vessel surrounding the crystallisation vessel is kept about 1 cm , below this , it is easy to crystallise and melt the ethane alternately by simply turning on and off the exhaust on the liquid air .
The crystal-fields of ethane show no cleavage at a temperature close to that of the melting point .
When the preparation is further cooled by evacuating the liquid air a very marked cleavage in two directions is developed .
The double-refraction varies very much in different directions , the maximum value , however , not being much higher than that of quartz .
Crystal fields occur also which remain isotropic when the nicols are revolved .
The direction of extinction in the double-refracting sections bisects the angle Dr. W. Wahl .
Relation between [ Mar. 21 , between the two cleavage-directions .
Judging from the occurrence of isotropic sections , and from the cleavage , which must be regarded as rhombo-hedral , ethane is hexagonal .
Propane.\#151 ; Propane was prepared in a similar manner to ethane by reducing isopropyl iodide with coppered zinc .
Judging from the fact that nearly half the volume of the reaction product was absorbed when passed through bromine , a very large proportion of olefinic hydrocarbons are formed in this case .
The fractionation was effected in the same way as described in the case of ethane .
When cooled in the vapour of evaporating liquid air the liquid propane does not crystallise .
If liquid air is admitted through the syphon until the crystallisation vessel is partly submerged in the liquid air , and the temperature is still further lowered by exhausting the liquid air , crystallisation after some time sets in .
The liquid is at this temperature not yet supercooled sufficiently to become stiff or glassy ; the crystalline phase , however , grows very slowly and spreads in most cases in one single homogeneous crystal-field over the whole field of the microscope .
By variation of the exhaust , that is the temperature of the liquid air , a growth in the form of prismatic needles can be obtained at the fringe of the crystal field .
This crystalline form of propane is strongly double-refracting and apparently rhombic .
When the exhaust on the liquid air is turned off and the temperature allowed to rise , a transition into another form takes place .
This form , which appears to be stable at higher temperatures , grows very slowly in the other modification , but in precisely the same way as crystals grow in a liquid .
This crystalline form is also strongly double-refracting , and either rhombic or monoclinic .
When the temperature rises further it begins to melt , and if only a portion is melted and the preparation then again cooled , recrystallisation takes place in the form of very narrow , sharp needles , projecting from the margin of the crystal-field into the molten mass .
If the crystals are , however , totally melted , supercooling of the liquid invariably takes place on cooling , and the crystal modification formed spontaneously in the supercooled liquid is always the form stable at lower temperatures .
Thus in propane we meet with a polymorphic substance which behaves in a similar way to sulphur\#151 ; and in a certain sense to oxygen\#151 ; in this respect , that the modification stable at low temperature is formed directly by the crystallisation of the supercooled liquid , i.e. , in the case of oxygen , the glassy liquid .
In all three cases the transition-point temperature lies only slightly below that of the melting point , and all three substances strongly tend to become supercooled , and also show little velocity of crystallisation in the case of the modification stable at higher temperature .
1913 .
] Crystal-Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
359 Trimethyl-methane ( Tertiary Butane).\#151 ; Trimethyl-methane was prepared from tertiary butyl iodide in a way similar to that described in the case of the preparation of ethane and propane , and the reaction product treated as described in the case of ethane .
The gas obtained after the first condensation was absorbed , however , to the extent of about 80 per cent , when passed through bromine , showing that principally olefinic hydrocarbons are formed in this case .
Trimethyl-methane crystallises very beautifully in large crystal-fields and prismatic columns .
These are strongly double-refracting .
On further cooling with liquid air a very regular cleavage in one direction is developed .
The extinction is parallel to this cleavage direction .
It is therefore possible that trimethyl-methane is rhombic , but it may also be that the crystal-fields are always developed parallel to one and the same crystal face , as , remarkably enough , the interference colour in all cases was the same .
These observations , therefore , cannot be regarded as conclusively determining to which crystal system trimethyl-methane belongs .
Tetramethyl - methane ( Quaternary Pentane).\#151 ; Tetramethyl-methane was prepared according to Lwow , * i.e. by the action of a calculated quantity of zinc-methyl on tertiary butyl iodide .
It was found that the reaction is very treacherous , and it is not safe to work with more than quite small quantities .
If the iodide is not sufficiently cooled while the zinc-methyl is added , the reaction product is , for the greater part , absorbed when passed through bromine .
If more strongly cooled , reaction does not take place at all , and , when the mixture of the iodide and zinc-methyl is allowed to get gradually warmer , the reaction does not commence gradually , but sets in quite suddenly and a most violent explosion takes place .
The raw gas was purified by passing successively through bromine , caustic potash solution , and concentrated sulphuric acid , and was then frozen and subsequently fractionated .
Lwow states that the tetramethyl-methane crystallises in similar grille structures to ammonium chloride . .
Investigated in the same manner as the substances described above tetramethyl-methane has been found to crystallise in very beautifully developed cubical growth-structures , which are later filled up , and become homogeneous crystal-fields .
These are absolutely isotropic between crossed nicols .
When the preparation is cooled , a cubical cleavage is first developed , and at low temperature a transition into another modification of low doublerefraction takes place , which , to judge by its optical characters , is probably tetragonal .
* Lwow , ' Zeitschr .
f. Chemie , ' 1870 , vol. 6 , p. 520 ; and 1871 , vol. 7 , p. 257 .
360 Crystal-Symmetry and Molecular Constitution .
Normal Butane.\#151 ; Normal butyl iodide is not acted upon at ordinary temperature by coppered zinc and alcohol .
The reaction product obtained at higher temperature does not seemingly contain any appreciable amount of %-butane .
Lebeau has described a method for the reduction of alcoholic iodides by sodium dissolved in an excess of liquid ammonia .
He claims this method to be generally applicable to the synthesis of saturated aliphatic hydrocarbons .
I have tried to prepare the 72-butane as described by Lebeau.* The action of the deep blue sodium solution on the iodide takes place readily , but instead of a reduction taking place the reaction proceeds according to the Wurtz reaction , that is sodium iodide and octane are formed .
Only an insignificant quantity of gaseous reaction products was formed , and a slight smell of amines was noticeable.^ Finally , the Grignard reaction was tried and gave a good yield of the hydrocarbon .
This was then purified by condensation , passing through bromine and solidification , followed by fractionating .
72-Butane crystallises readily , and large crystal-fields are formed .
Both double-refracting sections showing parallel extinction and isotropic sections are observed .
The uniaxial character of the crystals in this case was also confirmed by observation in convergent polarised light .
72-Butane must thus be regarded as hexagonal .
At a temperature close to that of liquid air , boiling at ordinary pressure , this modification changes into another which exhibits a stronger double refraction and is rhombic .
On heating the reverse change into the hexagonal modification takes place .
Normal Pentane ( Kahlbaum 's , from petroleum).\#151 ; The commercial product did not crystallise , and it was not possible to obtain by fractionation a quite homogeneously crystallising preparation .
Only a certain middle fraction crystallised fairly well , and this was further fractionated and investigated .
On cooling , it at first became supercooled , but could be brought to crystallise by rubbing the inner wall of the stem of the crystallisation vessel with a metal wire .
It at first crystallises in the form of spherulites , but can be recrystallised , and is then obtained as long needles and prismatic fields of parallel extinction , and low double-refraction , which belong to the rhombic system .
Crystalline growth-structures , very similar to those of olivine , as * P. Lebeau , ' Bull .
Soc. Min./ [ 3 ] , vol. 33 , p. 1089 , and \#163 ; Bull .
Acad. Belgique , ' [ 3 ] , 1908 , vol. 46 , p. 300 .
t The reaction occurred twice in this way ; I have , however , not had the time to study the case further .
Quite recently E. Chablay ( 'Compt .
Bend .
, ' January 27 , 1913 ) stated that the hydrocarbons of the ethylene-series may also be obtained in a similar way .
Bemarkably enough the reaction between sodium dissolved in liquid NH3 and the alcoholic iodides thus seems to be able to proceed in three different ways , in each case giving good yields .
The conditions under which the one or the other product is obtained are , however , not known .
Ammonium Ferrous Sulphate and its Alkali-metal Isomorphs .
361 seen in basaltic rocks , were also observed .
A small quantity of the liquid did not crystallise at all , but became glassy at low temperature .
Normal Hexane ( Kahlbaum 's , from propyl iodide).\#151 ; 72-Hexane crystallises in needle-shaped prisms which exhibit extinction angles of very different degree .
The double-refraction is moderately high .
At liquid air temperature a very distinct longitudinal cleavage is developed .
No polymorphic change takes place above \#151 ; 200 ' , but at low temperature sparse twinning lamellae are formed , lying at an angle of about 80 ' to the prism axis ; 72-hexane is thus monoclinic or triclinic , probably monoclinic .
Normal Heptane ( Kahlbaum 's , from petroleum).\#151 ; The commercial product does not crystallise well , and a homogeneous preparation could no more be obtained in this case than in the case of 72-pentane .
The principal crystallisation product of the middle fractions consisted of long monoclinic or triclinic needles .
Normal Octane ( Kahlbaum 's , from 72-butyl iodide).\#151 ; 72-Octane crystallises well and in large prismatic columns of moderately high double-refraction .
It is monoclinic or triclinic .
No polymorphic transition has been observed above \#151 ; 200 ' .
Ammonium Ferrous Sulphate and its Alkali-metal Isomorphs. .
By A. E. H. Tutton , D.Sc .
, M.A. , F.R.S. ( Received March 11 , \#151 ; Read March 13 , 1913 .
) Ammonium ferrous sulphate , ( NH^Fe^O^.GFGO , although one of the commonest double salts in everyday laboratory use , and noted for its excellent , comparatively stable , clearly transparent , pale greenish-blue crystals , has never yet been subjected to a thorough crystallographic and optical study .
Since the year 1859 , when a few of its principal angles were measured by Murmann and Rotter , * and an approximate idea of its optical properties for red , yellow , and green light of no specific wave-lengths briefly indicated , just adequately to confirm that the salt belongs to the monoclinic series of double sulphates crystallising with 6H20 , no accurate measurements have been made .
The substance has , however , formed the subject of several special researches from a different point of view , such as those of von Hauerj* on the parallel growths of this salt on crystals of other salts of the series , of * Murmann and Rotter , 6 Sitzungsber .
d. Akad .
d. Wiss .
Wien/ 1859 , vol. 34 , p. 153 .
t K. von Hauer , 1860 , ibid. , vol. 39 , p. 611 .

