]\gt ; Adsorj tion of and Concentrations .
Part .
Verification of the Constants in the By A. M. WILLIAJIS , M.A. , li .
Sc. , Chelnistry ]Jepartment , University of Communicated Prof. Received July III .
Having established the form of the theoretical isosteres and isotherms , it is now possible and desirable to find how far the constants of the deduced expressions fall in with their theoretical values .
We will in the present paper confine ourselves to a consideration of the constants A and of the isostere .
These are given by equation ( 7 ) in and they are iven by in equation ( 8 ) , since ( a ) Miss 's Obsjrvation There exists only one set of observations sufficiently extensive to be suitable for our present purpose .
Miss observations embrace the adsorption by cocoanut charcoal of helium , argon , nitrogen , carbon monoxide , methane , carbon dioxide , and ethylene , and it has been foumd possible to evaluate for all these gases at various temperatures .
Accurate extrapolation from the observations was sometimes difficult in the case of the first two gases which show many irregularities in the data , but was relatively easy with the others .
Fig. 4 represents graphically the extrapolation in the case of ] , and illustrates the power and scope of the method adopted .
It is , of course , obvious that the further away from the observations lie , the less reliable is the extrapolation , and the assumption has been made that there is no change in curvature in the graphs near , since such is not found in the case of those curves with values available near .
In extrapolating , repeated use was made of the fact that the gradient of the curves varies 'Zeit . .
Physikal .
Chem vol. 74 , p. 129 ( 1910 ) .
1 dsorption of and oncent r. 299 tinuously with the temperature .
This was helpful in the case of at low temperatures when few points were available near , and was also used at high temperatures where perhaps only one observatiou was recorded .
The error in extrapolating here would be small , since the point was near .
But in a few cases the readings are so discordant that only a mean value can be given with a probable error .
This was particularly the case with argon .
The values of thus obtained have been plotted against the reciprocal of the absolute temperature order to test ( 7 ) , and the curves are shown in fig. It will at once be seen that the graphs closely approximate to straight lines , that is , A and are appreciably independent of the temperature over the range studied .
This is more closely examined in the Tables following , where a comparison is made of the observed and calculated values of for different temperatures .
As regards the constants A and , the difference between calculated and observed is the error in if A is regarded as known , and the last column gives the variation in the Dr. A. .
Williams .
The Adsorption of constancy of A when is regarded as known .
The real test of formula , however , is the percentage error in the calculated value of FIG. 5 .
Table IX .
Ethylene .
Gases at Low and Table X. Carbon dioxide .
Table XI .
Methane .
Table XII .
Carbon monoxide .
Dr. A. M. Williams .
of Table XIII .
Nitrogen .
Table The values of A and for given in Table were not deduced directly from the , owing to the difficulty in evaluating .
They were deduced by extrapolation from the values for A and obtained from the isosteres for adsorptions tabulated by Miss Homfray .
( See , for example , Table I , Part II .
) From the Tables it will be seen that A and are eciably constant over a range of some 200 degrees Centigrade , and this indicates from the theoretical discussion that in the region of temperature in question and are appreciably constant , that i the range of cohesive forces is appreciably con stant .
The values for ] , however , indicate that at lower temperatures increases .
must be interpreted to mean the molecule is less closely held to the attractiney surface at low temperatures .
The curves are , therefore , only straight lines , and we are at present unable to predict whether they will remain so at higher temperatures .
Let us now examine a little more closely the physical meaning of the constants A and B. From the theoretical equations of Part I .
Gases at Low For the same surface is proportional to , if the lueau distance is closely the same for diffel'ent substances , then is closely he same .
represents the specific attraction of the adsorbed substance , while the cohesion represents the attraction of the substance for itself and should therefore be proportional or .
We may take the ' of Van Waal 's equation to give us a measure of the cohesion factor of different substances .
In the Table following this value been used and is the mean of the values calculated from observations and giyen in Landolt-Bornstein 's , save in the case of helium , where the data of Onnes*have been employed .
The last Table column indicates that is indeed appreciably constant for gases , and hence we see that we have here a new method of placing the values of the internal cohesion of ases .
We get further information as to and S , the mean effective of molecular action from , since , and .
If ( and therefore ) is the same for all the molecules considered , on graphing against we should obtain a straight line , the gradient of which is the area of 1 .
of the adsorbent , while the intercept on the axis is , and the intercept on the axis is SS , the initial volume of the surface film .
Since Van der Waal 's \ldquo ; has been employed for the cohesion , has been recalculated from his " " \ldquo ; by means of the relation and the data are presented in Table .
The value of , calculated from the viscosity relation by Sutherland , is also given for comparison , and is denoted by .
The curve is shown in fig. 6 , and the line is the most * Proc. Acad. Sci. Amsterdam , vol. 14 , p. 678 .
Dr. A. M. Williams .
The Adsorption Table likely through the points shown .
It will be seen that in the case of nitrogen and carbon dioxide the points lay well off the line .
In the case of carbon dioxide this corresponds to the low of in Table , making small , and hence and large .
The gradient of the line shown is , and hence we conclude that the area of 1 .
of the adsorbent is ' sq .
cm .
Assuming the area is sq .
cm .
, the author has calculated in Table for the various gases from the relation Gases at Low If we use instead of , the likeliest line gives sq .
cm .
, and taking this value has been calculated .
It should be noted that if , and therefore , varies from substance to substance , the points will not lie on a straight line , but straight lines whose gradient is the value of the area through the points in question will intercept on the axis values corresponding to the various values .
Our calculations , then , lead us to the conclusion that the area of 1 of the charcoal used by Miss Homfray was initially sq .
cm .
, and the thickness of the initial adsorption film was approximately cm .
, giving the volume of this film as .
If we assume the charcoal ( density ) to be made up of thin laminae , the thickness is given by the equations whence cm .
On the other hand , if we assume the charcoal made up of spheres of radius , we ]lave whence cm .
On both assumptions we see that the thickness of the adsorbent is great compared with the adsorption layer , and hence we are justified in assuming that the adsorption film may be represented as of volume Reverting now to the points which are off the line the explanation for carbon dioxide has already been given in the low value of \mdash ; the reason for this itself is not obvious .
In the of nitrogen the value of is not so low as to be attributed to the uncertainty of the values as accurate measures of the cohesion .
It is therefore of interest to use the value of corresponding to from the line in fig. 6 , and see if this gives us a constant value of A in the equation The values of and , already given , were selected as the best for reproducing the observed values .
The two values of A are compared in Table XVII below .
It will be noted that the constancy of ( II ) is not quite so good as that of , but it is possible that more accurate .
observations might have led to , and therefore to a more likely value of for the curve .
VOL. XCVL\mdash ; A. Dr. A. M. Williams .
The Adsorption of S Table XVII .
( I ) .
( II ) .
( I ) .
( II ) .
The observations on the adsorption of helium merit a brief discussion .
It has already been remarked ( in a footnote to Part I ) that what is observed is not but , the excess of the surface concentration over the concentration in the gaseous phase .
Assuming no change in the volume of the adsorbent we have , in fact , whence and therefore For small values of we cannot neglect .
These small values only occur in the observations at higher temperatures with argon , nitrogen , and methane , and the correction does not seriously affect the results .
With helium , however , the case is different .
Of the observations on this gas , unfortunately only those at A are sufficiently extensive to be employed .
Here we have or .
If we employ the data of Onnes ( toc .
atmospheres , whence leading to , and .
We may use these values to solve for in where , leading to Gases at Low and Moderate Concentrations .
Hence which is in good agreement with the values obtained for other gases .
( The values lead to ) It is evident thal if the theory holds for higher temperatures the adsorption of a gas will vanish , when Thus , in the case of helium there should be no observable adsorption ( or , rather , very small negatire adsorption ) after the point given by or and in fact Miss Homfray records zero adsorption at and Miss Homfray elsewhere mentions that at .
of charcoal adsorbed 330 .
of argon at its saturation vapour pressure .
Assumin the adsorbed film to have a density the same as liquid argon , we see that the volume of the film per fJramme charcoal was or 0 .
This is less than thrice five times , so we see that the transition layer between adsorbent and saturated vapour is not more than 5 molecules thick .
This is what we might expect from the smaJlness of the value of , the effective range of the molecular forces .
The evidence here presented as to the value of must be regarded as affording support to the views advocated amongst others by Langmuir as to the smallness of the range of molecular attraction .
( b ) Observations .
The only other set of observations which are at all extensive is due to Titoff , * and includes data for hydrogen , nitrogen , carbon dioxide , and ammonia .
Only the observations on hydrogen , nitrogen , and carbon dioxide may used for extrapolation by means of equation ( 8 ) , and the results for the two latter gases are given below in Tables XVIII and 'Zeits . .
Physikal .
Chem vol. 74 , ( 1910 ) .
Dr. A. M. Williams , The Adsorption of Table XVIII .
Nitrogen .
Table XIX .
Carbon dioxide .
Values of cannot be directly determined from the isotherms for ammonia for the reason mentioned in Part II\mdash ; the curves are not straight lines .
Values of A and may , however , be determined from the isosteres for finite adsorptions as was done with argon .
We have the following Table : Table The zero values are extrapolated assuming no change in curvature of the and curves .
But the change in curvature of the curves occurs just below , and the assumption is scarcely justifiable , as the values gested by this consideration are much lower for A and much higher for B. Nevertheless , the values given in the Table may be employed as representing a possible configuration of the system , even if it is not the one actually with ammonia at zero concentration .
The observations with hydrogen are at three temperatures only , and are Gases Low and Concentrations .
discussed after the correction to the observed values has been determined .
In Table XXI are presented the results already obtained .
The Table XXI .
points are too few in number for an accurate determination of , the values of being uncertain , and the values close to each other .
Allowing for the variation in , the best value of appears to be while if we assume the variation in to should be the same as found with Miss Homfray 's charcoal , the best value of is .
Taking to be , we get to vary from to .
This value is so great that it is obvious that the correction must be introduced to the nitrogen and carbon dioxide values .
The results are shown in Tables XVIIIA and XIXA below .
Table XVIIIA .
Table XIXA .
Carbon dioxide .
310 Adsorption of Low and The values of with hydrogen do not lie on a straight line , but the curvature is less when the points are considered .
The value of the gradient between two of ths points leads to a value of much greater than any hitherto recorded , and this suggests an error in observation .
The results of calculation are shown in Table XXII .
Table XXII .
Hydrogen .
Table presents a summary for the corrected values of A and B. is calculated from the relation , assuming .
Comparing the values with those in Iables and , the tendency for the values of Table , and hence of , to fall with is again to be noted , carbon dioxide not forming an exception here .
This tendency points to the necessity for the existence of a second relation , presumably dynamical , connecting and The values of appear to be slightly less in the present case , indicating that the attraction of the is less .
This may be connected with the smaller value of and the greater surface , which leads to a smaller thickness of the adsorbent\mdash ; in this case only cm .
if composed of thin laminae .
There are no other observations available for the purposes of the present paper , so a summary of the results may now be given .
Summary of Part III .
1 .
The form of the theoretical adsorption isostere for zero concentration has been established for a number of gases above their critical points .
Anmversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
2 .
The elationship among the constants is in good agreement with the theory based on the existence of a thin surface layer .
3 .
A new method of obtaining the relative internal cohesion of a gas is thereby presented .
4 .
The surface area of the adsorbent can be evaluated .
5 .
The range of molecular attraction may be determined , and in the cases considered is found to vary from to cm .
The author desires to express his thanks to Prof. James Walker , F.B.S. , for his help in the presentation of this paper .
Address of the President , Sir J. J. Thomson , O. M. , the Anniversary Meeting , December 1 , 1919 .
The losses of the Society since the last Anniversary Meeting have been very heavy .
Fourteen Members on the Home List , and three Foreign Members , have died during the year , and among these are some who have for many years been most closely connected with the work of the Society , and whose discoveries and researches have for long been the glory of Britisl ] science .
One of these , Sir CROOKES , had worked at science with untiring diligence and most conspicuous success for 60 years .
A pupil of Hofmann , he became famous in 1862 by his discovery by the new method of Spectrum Analysis of a new element , ihallium ; this discovery won for him his election into the Society in the following year .
In 1873 he again made a discovery which attracted universal attention , that of the Radiometer .
The way in which he arrived at this discovery is as great a tribute to his genius as an investigator as the importance of the discovery itself .
In the course of some chemical experiments , he observed certain irregularities in the weighings made with a very delicate balance ; he followed these up , and at last traced them to forces acting on a surface exposed to radiation , and , with his ivalled power of epitomising a discovery in a dramatic experiment , he summed the results of his work up in the well-known instrument , the radiometer or -mill .
Ihough subsequent research has not confirmed the by which he explained its action , the radiometer is a striking example of his skill as an experimenter , the thoroughness of his work , and his determination to leave no difficulty unsolved .
His long-continued work VOL XCVI.\mdash ; A.

