]\gt ; 214 Mr. C. Chree .
[ May 17 , ' and sometimes has short blunt processes projecting from its outer surface .
These short processes apparently correspond to the long complex projections which in R. batis give rise to an irregular network , and they seem to indicate tlJat the cortical layer of R. circularis essentially agrees with the alveolar layer of R. babis , differing chiefly .
in the amount of complexity .
Surrounding the cortex there is a thin layer of gelatinous tissue in which capillaries ramify .
This tissue evidently represents the thick gelatinous cushion which lies behind the disk in R. batis , and fills up the alveoli .
The stem of the cup is usually , if not always , longer than the er of the cup .
It consists of a core of altered muscuIar substance , which is surrounded by a thick layer of nucleated protoplasm continuous the cortical layer of the cup , and apparently also identical with it .
The cups are arranged in oblique rows to form a long , flattened spindle , which occupies the posterior two-thirds of the tail , being in a skate -easuring 27 inches from tip to tip , slightly over 8 inches in length , and trly a quarter of an inch in width at the widest central portion , but only about 21ines in thickness .
The posterior of the organ lies immediately beneath the skin , and has in contact with its outer surface the nerve of the lateral line .
The anterior two-fifths is suTl.ounded by fibres of the outer caudal muscles .
It is pointed out that while the organ in R. circularis is larger than in R. radiata , it is relatively very much smaller than the organ of R. batis .
VII .
" " On olotropic Elastic ] \ldquo ; By C. CHnEE .
, Fellow of King 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. , F.R.S. Beceived May 1 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This paper treats of elastic solids of various non-isotropic kinds .
Its object is to obtain ] utions of the internal equations in ascending integral powers of the variables , and apply them to problems of a practical kind , some of them already solved , but in an entirely different way , by Saint-Venant .
On the multi-constant theory of elasticity the lations connecting the strains and stresses contain 21 constants .
As shown by SaintVenant these reduce for one-plane symmetry to 13 , for three-plane symmetry to 9 , and for symmetry round an axis perpendicular to a plane of symmetry to 5 .
I of this paper deals with one-plane symmetry .
A soIution is obtained of the internal equations of equilibrium complete so far as 1888 .
] On olotropic Solids .
215 it goes .
It is employed in solving the problem , alrendy treated by , of a beam , whose is endicu { to the of symmctl.y , held one end , and at the other acted on by a sys.tem of forces .
whose resultallt consists of a single force along the axls of beam , illld of couplo bout any line the scction th.ough its centroid .
The cross-section may be any whatever , of a beanl , provided it be uniform through- out .
The cabe the crossscction is elliptical , the beam exposed to eqilib.ti torsional couples over its ellds is also treated .
Results ubtain ed of Saint-Venant 's .
They are also to case of composite cylindcr , of shells of hose cross-scctions are by concentric .
and si milarly situated ellipses , the law of vari tion b. the same f the elastic constants of } .
The case of a continuon sly .
structure is dednced .
It is found when a beam is exposed to hither uni or the strain consists in of in the plane of the cross-bection which is proportional to the tl'action ; and position of lines in the cross-section , which at right allgles remain so , is lermined .
These l arc principed es of .
If in ddition plancs of symmetry the axis of the , these a.reii the intersections of the of with the -section .
When : bc [ section is exposed to sion , it is proved that .
will enstle to the moment of .
Only in the ion , these mutually at rigl ) to of { he .
These called } xcs of .
If ?
denobe displaccment rallcl to of the beam , and denoto the undisturbed polar co-ol'dinates of point the -seclion , referred to its cenlre as igin , one of these axes as initial line , the lttW of .
is by\mdash ; in no connexion between the positions of the principal axes of of torsion , the expressions iving their inclination to the tlxcs of dinates contain wholly different clastic constnnts ; symmetry of the kind mentioned is by ound the axis of th hcar and the of course found to vanish .
lt oiuted out how by means of these ties the of the matcrial may } ) invcstigated IT trcats of a Ltcrial symmetrical round an of and having the plano one of symmetl.y .
general solubion of the inter1lal tions of equilibrium is obtained , sup216 Mr. C. Chree .
[ May 17 , posing no bodily forces to act .
The solution involves arbitrary stants , and consists of a series of parts , each composed of a series of terms involving homogeneous oducts of the variables , such as , where are integers , and is greater than 3 .
The case is worked out numerically as an illustration .
The terms involving powers of the variables , the sum of whose indices is less than 4 , are then obtained by a more elementary process , and these alone are required in the applications which follow .
These terms arrange themselves in groups associated with certain constants in the expression found for the dilatation .
The first application of bhe solution is to " " Saint-Venant 's problem\ldquo ; for a beam of elIiptical cross-section .
The problem is worked out hout introducing any assumptions , and a solution obtained , which is thus directly proved to be the only solution possible if powers of the variables above the third be neglected .
Certain groups of constants vanish completely , and the remaining arbitrary constants express themselves very simply in terms of the terminal forces , all the constants of ons group depending on one only of the components of the system of forces .
Part III oonsists of an application of the second portion of the solution of Part II to the case of a spheroid , oblate or prolate , and of any eccentricity , rotating with uniform angular velocity round its axis of symmetry , oz , which is also the axis of symmetry of the material .
The surface of the spheroid is supposed free of all forces .
The terms depending on two only of the groups of associated constants suffice , along with a particuIar solution on account of the existence of what is equivalent to the occurrence of bodily forces , to satisfy all the conditions of the problem , and the ains are determined explicitly .
The limiting form of the solution when the polar axis of the spheroid is supposed to diminish indefiniteIy , while the equatorial remains unchanged , is applied to the case of a thin circular disk rotating freely about , perpendicular to its plane through its centre .
The soIution so obtained is shown to satisfy all the conditions required for the disk , except that it brings in small tangential surface stresses depending on terms of the order of the thickness of the disk .
According to this solution the disk increases in radius , and diminishes everywhere in thickness , especially near the axis , so as to become biconcave .
All , originally plane , sections parallel to the faces become very approximately paraboloids of revolution , the labus ectum of each varying inversely as the square of the angular velocity into the original distance of the sectio1t considered from the central section .
Again , by supposing the ratio of the polar to the equatorial diameter of spheroid to become very great , a surface is obtained which near the central plane , , of the spheroid diifers very little 1888 .
] On iEolotropic Elastic Solids .
217 from that of a right circulal cylinder .
The espondiug form of the solution obtained for roid , when the ratio of the polar to the equatorial diameter becomes infinite , may thus be expected to apply very pproximately to the pol.tions of a nder not too near the ends , and thus for a long thin cylinder to be for all practical purposes satisfactory .
This is verified directly , it is show that this solution is in all respocts as approximately true as that sally accepted for Saintenant'oblem . .
to the from the } shortens , and crosf ; -section lncreases in radius but plalle .
The and the increase in radius are , course , proportional to the square , of the angulal velocity .
Part treats of the vibrations of a bar of uniform section and of the same as in Part II .
strains of form\mdash ; radial longitudiual is found in terms of by means of the equations established in these c.quations is deduced a diffcrential tion of , and for this a solution is ohtained colltaining only vo even powers of .
A relation exists all tbc bollstallts of the solution in of the coefficicnts ( of .
In this to problelll 1 containing powGl .
S of bove the fourth it is bhown to what the results obtained are On tho face the two conditions that the and htresses nish dmine in torms of , and lead to the botween and donotes the and the dins of the beam , is ulus , and atio of litteral contraction to terminal action .
This a esult by a special hypothesis . .
to ruinal collditions , it is shown how is detercotlditions as to the longitudinal motion at the ends being ilhcr lite f or non-existent .
Since only on the amplitude of the vibrations , we are left with no rminod .
If the -bar be so " " fixed \ldquo ; at its ends , that the motion is unobstructed , this leads to no difficulty , but an * ' heory of ound , ' vol. 1 , S lo7 .
esents .
[ May end be " " free \ldquo ; a difficulty arises .
At such an end the solution requires the existence of a radial stress where is an integer depending on the number of the harmonic of ths fundamental note and denotes the length of the bar .
The value given above for thus answers to a problem differing to a certain extent from that occurring in nature in the case either of ' ' fixedfree\ldquo ; or of " " free-free ' ' vibrations .
There will thus be a differencs in these cases between the results of experiment and those of the accepted theory , even as amended by Lord Rayleigh .
This divergence will increase rapidly with the order of the harmonic , and though very small for a long thin bar will increase rapidly as the ratio of the diameter to the length is increased .
Since in dealing with the conditions at the curved surface , terms of the order were neglected , the same remarks apply , though to a smaller extent , in the case of the ' ' fixed-fixed\ldquo ; vibrations .
From the values of and , which obtained explicibly , it is shown that the hypothesis made by Lord Rayleigh is true as a first , and only as a first , approximation .
The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , May Presents , May 17 , 1888 .
Transactions .
Alnwick :Berwickshire Naturalists ' Club .
History .
Vol. XI .
Nos. 3-4 . .
Alnwick 1887 .
The Club .
Batavia :Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschap- pen .
Dagh-Register gehouden int Casteel Batavia .
Anno 1653 . .
Batavia 1888 ; Notulen .
Deel .
Afiev .
4 .
Batavia 1888 .
The Society .
:\mdash ; Konigl .
Preuss .
Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Politische Correspondenz Friedrich 's des Grossen .
Bd .
XV .
Berhn 1887 .
The Academy .
Bombay :Royal Asiatic Society ( Bombay Branch ) .
Journal .
Vol. XVII .
No. 46 . .
Bombay 1887 .
The Society .
Brussels:\mdash ; Musee Royal d'Histoire Naturelle de Belgique .
Bulletin .
Tome .
No. 1 , [ 1888 ] .
The lIuseum .
ambridge , Mass .
:\mdash ; Harvard College .
Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Bnlletin .
Vol. XIII .
No. 8 .
Vol. .
No. 1 .
Cambridge , Mass .
1888 .
The Museum .
Cordova :Academia Nacional de Ciencias .
Boletin .
Tomo X. Entrega 1 . .
Buenos Aires 1887 .
The Academy .
ttingen : .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Abhandlungen .
Bd .
XXXIV . .
Gottingen 1887 ; Nachrichten .
Jahrg .
1887 . .
Go ttingen .
The Society .

