]\gt ; The Origin of gnetic S By ARTHUR , F.R.S ' .
( Received January 9 , \mdash ; Read January 26 , 1911 .
) 1 .
Lord Kelvi discussing the origin of magnetic storms , came to the collclusion that they could not be due to a direct solar action on account of the enormous which would have to be supplied by the sun .
This verdict was generally accepted until recently , wheri the theory of a direct solar action has been in ) form , which is assumed to be free from the ection raised , the magnetic action being supposed to be due to a swarm of electrified corpuscles ejected by the sun .
The question of energy has not , so far as I know , been discussed in this case , and it seems to be taken for granted that the total energy of the magnetic field due to a swarm of corpuscles is equal to the sum of the energies of each , calculated as if the others were not present .
If the corpuscles are sufficiently far apart , this is approximately correct ; but in that case the magnetic field itself would to be negligible , except within molecular distance from each particle .
How far we may go wrong by treatin the energy as if it could be obtained by a process of addition oecomes apparent when we consider that such treatment would lead to coefficients of self-induction which are proportional to the length of a circuit and independent of its shape .
2 .
If represent the components of electro-kinetic potential and , the current components at any point , the total electro-magnetic energy is given by In a previous paper I have shown that in evaluating the integral the displacement currents need not be taken into account so hr as the components of current , while they become important , however , in calculation of A. If we take the axis of to be the.direction of motion , the expression for the energy reduces to where stands for the convection ourrent per unit wi\amp ; in the swarm of electrons and A is the component in the direction at ot the eleotrokinetic momentum due to the -current 'Roy .
' 1892 , vol. W. and the energy per unit length becomes As the swarm increases in length , the energy increases in a greater proportion than the length .
3 .
Before discussing the results obtained , we write down the corresponding expressions for a swarm of electrons uniformly filling a sphere and moving with speed in the direction of the axis of .
If be the total quantity of electricity in the sphere , the magnetic energy outside the sphere is The magnetic force inside the sphere is , where stands for the quantity of electricity contained in a sphere of radius , which is equal to .
Introducing this and integrating through the volume of the sphere , we find for the total electro-kinetic eneJgy of the moving sphere 2 magnetic force at the surface in the plane being .
If denote this magnetic force , the energy is if the volume of the sphere .
Comparing the expressions for the cylinder with those for the sphere , it appears that in writing for the energy contained in volume V we shall underrate its value in both cases .
As rf is the magnetic force at the point where it reaches its greatest value , we may take the above expression to represent the smallest amount of energy which a swarm of electrified particles can contain if it occupies a volume and causes a magnetic force H. 4 .
Sir Oliver Lodge*has calculated the numerical values of dimensions of a swarm of electrons , producing a magnetic field as great as that of the storm of September 25 , 1909 .
If the velocity of the particles be estimated at , he finds , taking into account the duration of the , that the square of the cross-section has the value , so that the total energy transmitted in unit time would be 4 , or , -a6 ohange in the magnetic force on this occasion was , we obtain lie per second for the rate at which the sun would have neaey .
The number obtained by Lord Kelvin was torm hi\amp ; 'caused a magnetic force than the tenth th*-caeder9d by ' Natur 1892 , vol. difficulty might to some extent be overcome if it were possible to reduoe th6 cross-section of the swarm , but this was fixed to suit the atidn of the storm , and could not materially be diminished .
It will also appear that tho electrostatic repulsion between the particles puts a small cross-section out of the range of possibility .
We may pause for a to consider whether more favourable results might not be obtained by assuming the projected particles to have comparable with those of ordinary atoms of matier .
It seems , however , impossible that the high velocity required could be imparted to such heavy calriers , except by a radioactive process , and examination shows that inadmissibly large quantities of radium would have to be involved , if appreciable magnetic effects are to be produced .
6 .
We proceed to examine the electrostatic effects , which must show themselves in the gradual .
expansion of the beam and in the redistributiom of the icity on the surface of the .
The magnetic force .
at a point due to a charge moving with velocity is eu , if be the angle which the line between and the charge forms wiffi the direction of motion .
On the other hand the electric force at resolved in a plane right angles to the direction of motion is , where is the velocity of light .
Hence if be the component of electric force at right angles to the direction of motion , H. This relation must hold for the total effect of all current elements , provided they are all parallel .
The acceleration at of the charge having mass is H. We found from energy consideration that must be greater than but leaving this out of account altogether , and putting for .
its possible value , which is , we may assert that 50 Dr. A. Schuster .
[ Jan. energy and from electrostatic considerations alike , hafnow been shown to bo fatal to the theory in any form .
If , therefore , we wish to adhere to the hypothesis that the oonnexion between solar outbursts and terrestrial magnetism is due to a projection of particles by the sun , we are driven to accept the view , which I have advocated for a long time , that the particles act by increasing the ionisation of the outer regions of the atmosphere and allow the electromotive forces which are always present locally to increase the intensity of the electric circulation .
The rotation of the earth , which is the primary cause of the electromotive forces which come into play , then becomes responsible fo energy .
The view that the impact of the projected particles causes luminosity remains allowable , so that Prof. Birkeland 's theory of the aurora borealis is still tenable .
On the Periodicity of Sun-spots .
By ARTHUR SCHUSTER , F.RS .
( Received January 19 , \mdash ; Read January 26 , 1911 .
) In the year 1906 I presented to the ' Royal Society an investigation*in which it was shown that the frequency of sun-spots was subject to recurrent variations , not only in the well-known 11 years ' cycle , but also in other periods , which were determined .
As we now ossess additional material extending over 10 years , it is interesting to examine how far the minor maxima of the subsidiary periods can be traced in the more recent records .
The accompanying figure gives diagrammatically the sun-spot areas measured at Greenwich between 1898 and 1909 .
The numbers plotted represent the sum of the mean areas during four successive rotations , beginning with the four rotations 593/ 596 of Carrington 's series .
There is a period of years , which in the previous communication was shown to be persistent during the whole time by sun-spot reoor more persistent , in fact , than that of 11 years .
I have marked on the diagram the predicted times of maxima of the period wffih en arrow pointing upwards .
The first maximum , towards the snd of ear , which

