Some Observations on Mr. Brande 's Paper on Calculi .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 19 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 244 .
] In consequence of Mr. Brande 's observations , that either acids or alkalies may be attended with injurious consequences , Mr. Home adduces various cases , for the purpose of doing away the expectation generally entertained , of relief from the use of solvents .
The first case is that of a person who had been relieved of the symptoms of calculus while taking saline draughts in the state of effervescence , but in whose bladder were found , after death , as many as twenty calculi ; but the prostate gland had become enlarged , and had formed a barrier , so as to prevent the neck of the bladder from being irritated by them .
The second patient had used Perry 's lixivium , with the same apparent benefit , which , in fact , arose from the same cause as the preceding .
Mr. Home has also found calculi in cysts , between the fasciculi of the muscular coat of the bladder , even so many as three or four in the same bladder , in which cases the usual symptoms of stone would not occur .
A gentleman having , at the age of seventy ; voided a small uric calculus during a course of alkaline medicines , continued to use them at intervals for four or five years , suffering occasionally in a slight degree , but passing no more calculi .
After his death about 350 light spongy calculi , consisting of the phosphates cemented by uric acid , were found in his bladder , which , in Mr. Home 's estimation , were occasioned by the use of alkalies , in the manner suggested by Mr. Brand .
Another gentleman , who was found , by sounding , to have a stone in his bladder , took fossil alkali for about three months , after which he underwent the operation of lithotomy .
The stone was found , externally , composed of pure triple phosphate of magnesia , in speculated crystals , while the central parts had also a mixture of uric acid with the phosphates , so that the alkali had prevented the formation of uric acid ; but the deposition of the phosphates appeared to Mr. Home more rapid than before .

