II .
" On the Dynamical Theory of Gases .
" By J. CLERK MAXWELL , F.R.S. L. &amp; E. Received May 16 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) Gases in this theory are supposed to consist of molecules in motion , acting on one another with forces which are insensible , except at distances which are small in comparison with the average distance of the molecules .
The path of each molecule is therefore sensibly rectilinear , except when two molecules come within a certain distance of each other , in which case the direction of motion is rapidly changed , and the path becomes again sensibly rectilinear as soon as the molecules have separated beyond the distance of mutual action .
Each molecule is supposed to be a small body consisting in general of parts capable of being set into various kinds of motionl relative to each other , such as rotation , oscillation , or vibration , the amount of energy existing in this form bearing a certain relation to that which exists in the form of the agitation of the molecules among each other .
The mass of a molecule is different in different gases , but in the same gas all the molecules are equal .
The pressure of the gas is on this theory due to the impact of the molecules .
on the sides of the vessel , and the temperature of the gas depends on the velocity of the molecules .
The theory as thus stated is that which has been conceived , with various degrees of clearness , by D. Bernoulli , Le Sage and Prevost , Herapath , Joule , and Kronig , and which owes its principal developments to Professor Clausius .
The action of the molecules on each other has been generally assimilated to that of hard elastic bodies , and I have given some applica* It is to be supposed that certain molecules in living animal bodies are , under certain given conditions , a constant source of electricity-are so , perhaps , in the way in which certain molecules of the electrophorus are such a source .
The idea is that this electricity is so supplied as to admit of a series of frequent discharges , or to keep up a constant current if these discharges are retarded sufficiently .
At any rate , it does not follow that this constancy of the current of animal electricity detected by the galvanometer is an objection in itself to the idea that the primary condition of animal electricity may be , not current , but statical .
167 tion of this form of the theory to the phenomena of viscosity , diffusion , and conduction of heat in the Philosophical Magazine for 1860 .
M. Clausius has since pointed out several errors in the part relating to conduction of heat , and the part relating to diffusion also contains errors .
The dynamical theory of viscosity in this form has been reinvestigated by M. O. E. Meyer , whose experimental researches on the viscosity of fluids have been very extensive .
In the present paper the action between the molecules is supposed to be that of bodies repelling each other at a distance , rather than of hard elastic bodies acting by impact ; and the law of force is deduced from experiments on the viscosity of gases to be that of the inverse fifth power of the distance , any other law of force being at variance with the observed fact that the viscosity is proportional to the absolute temperature .
In the mathematical application of the theory , it appears that the assumption of this law of force leads to a great simplification of the results , so that the whole subject can be treated in a more general way than has hitherto been done .
I have therefore begun by considering , first , the mutual action of two molecules ; next that of two systems of molecules , the motion of all the molecules in each system being originally the same .
In this way I have determined the rate of variation of the mean values of the following functions of the velocity of molecules of the first system:a , the resolved part of the velocity in a given direction .
3 , the square of this resolved velocity .
y , the resolved velocity multiplied by the square of the whole velocity .
It is afterwards shown that the velocity of translation of the gas depends on ox , the pressure on 1 , and the conduction of heat on y. The final distribution of velocities among the molecules is then considered , and it is shown that they are distributed according to the same law as the errors are distributed among the observations in the theory of " Least Squares ; " and that if several systems of molecules act on one another , the average vis viva of each molecule is the same , whatever be the mass of the molecule .
The demonstration is of a more strict kind than that which I formerly gave , and this is the more necessary , as the " Law of Equivalent Volumes , " so important in the chemistry of gases , is deduced from it .
The rate of variation of the quantities a , 3 , y in an element of the gas is then considered , and the following conclusions are arrived at .
( a ) 1st .
In a mixture of gases left to itself for a sufficient time under the action of gravity , the density of each gas at any point will be the same as if the other gases had not been present .
2nd .
When this condition is not fulfilled , the gases will pass through each other by diffusion .
When the composition of the mixed gases varies slowly from one point to another , the velocity of each gas will be so small that the effects due to inertia may be neglected .
In the quiet diffusion of two gases , the volume of either gas diffused through unit of area in unit of time is equal to the rate of diminution of pressure of that gas as we pass in the direction of the normal to the plane , multiplied by a certain coefficient , called the coefficient of interdiffusion of these two gases .
This coefficient must be determined experimentally for each pair of gases .
It varies directly as the square of the absolute temperature , and inversely as the total pressure of the mixture .
Its value for carbonic acid and air , as deduced from experiments given by Mr. Graham in his paper on the Mobility of Gases , * is D=0'0235 , the inch , the grain , and the second being units .
Since , however , air is itself a mixture , this result cannot be considered as final , and we have no experiments from which the coefficient of interdiffusion of two pure gases can be found .
3rd .
When two gases are separated by a thin plate containing a small hole , the rate at which the composition of the mixture varies in and near the hole will depend on the thickness of the plate and the size of the hole .
As the thickness of the plate and the diameter of the hole are diminished , the rate of variation will increase , and the effect of the mutual action of the molecules of the gases in impeding each other 's motion will diminish relatively to the moving force due to the variation of pressure .
In the limit , when the dimensions of the hole are indefinitely small , the velocity of either gas will be the same as if the other gas were absent .
Ience the volumes diffused under equal pressures will be inversely as the square roots of the specific gravities of the gases , as was first established by Grahamt ; and the quantity of a gas which passes through a thin plug into another gas will be nearly the same as that which passes into a vacuum in the same time .
( 3 ) By considering the variation of the total energy of motion of the molecules , it is shown that , 1st .
In a mixture of two gases the mean energy of translation will become the same for a molecule of either gas .
From this follows the law of Equivalent Volumes , discovered by Gay-Lussac from chemical considerations ; namely , that equal volumes of two gases at equal pressures and temperatures contain equal numbers of molecules .
2nd .
The law of cooling by expansion is determined .
3rd .
The specific heats at constant volume and at constant pressure are determined and compared .
This is done merely to determine the value of a constant in the dynamical theory for the agreement between theory and experiment with respect to the values of the two specific heats , and their ratio is a consequence of the general theory of thermodynamics , and does not depend on the mechanical theory which we adopt .
4th .
In quiet diffusion the heat produced by the interpenetration of the gases is exactly neutralized by the cooling of each gas as it passes from a dense to a rare state in its progress through the mixture .
5th .
By considering the variation of the difference of pressures in different directions , the coefficient of viscosity or internal friction is determined , and the equations of motion of the gas are formed .
These are of the same form as those obtained by Poisson by conceiving an elastic solid the strain on which is continually relaxed at a rate proportional to the strain itself .
As an illustration of this view of the theory , it is shown that any strain existing in air at rest would diminish according to the values of an exponential term the modulus of which is,10 ooo , o second , an excessively small time , so that the equations are applicable , even to the case of the most acute audible sounds , without any modification on account of the rapid change of motion .
This relaxation is due to the mutual deflection of the molecules from their paths .
It is then shown that if the displacements are instantaneous , so that no time is allowed for the relaxation , the gas would have an elasticity of form , or " rigidity , " whose coefficient is equal to the pressure .
It is also shown that if the molecules were mere points , not having any mutual action , there would be no such relaxation , and that the equations of motion would be those of an elastic solid , in which the coefficient of cubical and linear elasticity have the same ratio as that deduced by Poisson from the theory of molecules at rest acting by central forces on one another .
This coincidence of the results of two theories so opposite in their assumptions is remarkable .
6th .
The coefficient of viscosity of a mixture of two gases is then deduced from the viscosity of the pure gases , and the coefficient of interdiffusion of the two gases .
The latter quantity has not as yet been ascertained for any pair of pure gases , but it is shown that sufficiently probable values may be assumed , which being inserted in the formula agree very well with some of the most remairkable of Mr. Graham 's experiments on the Transpiration of Mixed Gases* .
The remarkable experimental result that the viscosity is independent of the pressure and proportional to the absolute temperature is a necessary consequence of the theory .
( y ) The rate of conduction of heat is next determined , and it is shown 1st .
That the final state of a quantity of gas in a vessel will be such that the temperature will increase according to a certain law from the bottom to the top .
The atmosphere , as we know , is colder above .
This state would be produced by winds alone , and is no doubt greatly increased by the effects of radiation .
A perfectly calm and sunless atmosphere would be coldest below .
2nd .
The conductivity of a gas for heat is then deduced from its viscosity , and found to be 51 po M3 y-po0 S ' where y is the ratio of the two specific heats , p0 the pressure , and po the density of the standard gas at absolute temperature 0o .
S the specific gravity of the gas in question , and p its viscosity .
The conductivity is , like the viscosity , independent of the pressure and proportional to the absolute temperature .
Its value for air is about 3500 times less than that of wrought iron , as determined by Principal Forbes .
Specific gravity is *0069 .
For oxygen , nitrogen , and carbonic oxide , the theory gives the conductivity equal to that of air .
I-ydrogen according to the theory should have a conductivity seven times that of air , and carbonic acid about i of air .

