]\gt ; On the Dynamics of a Body in Elliptic Space .
219 Aoiution of sulphate of copper were placed in the negative and wsitive compartments respectively of the apparatus .
The positive lectrode consisted of a platinum wire , and the negative of a weighed of metallic copper .
VIVi .
In none of these expeliments was there any trace of ydrogen visibly escaping from the negative electrode , while , as will be seen from the table , there was no free acid formed in the negative compaltment till two hours or more had elapsed .
By that time some admixture in the horizontal part of the apparatus might reasonably be expected , and even in the greatest instance it is small as compared with the amount of salt decomposed .
Similar experiments were made with the sulphate of zinc , with similar results , no hydrogen being evolved , and little or no sulphuric acid appearing in the negative compartment .
We conclude , therefore , that it is not possible to determine the composition , or even to show the presence of a hydrated salt in aqueous soIution by means of this electrolytic method .
III .
' On the Dynamics of a Rigid Body in Elliptic Space By R. .
HEATH , B.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of inity C ] leg , Cambridge .
Communicated by A. CAYLEY , LL. D. , Sadleriall Professor of Pure Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
l$eceived January 4 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is an attempt to work out the theory of the motion of a rigid body under the action of any forces , with the generalised conceptions of distance of the so-called non-Euclidean geometry .
Of the three kinds of non-Euclidean space , that known as elliptic space has been chosen , because of the perfect duality and symmetry which exist in this case .
The special features of the method employed are the triangle of reference , the equations to lines , circles , and conics found in a simple form , and some of their properties investigabed .
The geometry of any plane is proved to be the same as that of al sphere of unit radius , so that elliptic space is shown to have a uniform positive curvature .
The theory is then extended to solid geometry , and the most important reIations of planes and lines to each other are worked out .
The next part treats of kinematics of a rigid body .
The possi .
bility of the existence of a rigid body is shown to be implied by the constant curvature of elliptic space , and then the theory of its meant is made to depeud entirely on orthogonal transformation .
Any displacement may be expressed as a twist about a certain screw .
rotation about a line is shown to be the same as an equal translation along its polar ; so that the rence between a rotation and a tranr .
lation disappears , and the motion of any body is expressed in terms of six symmetrical angular velocities .
An angular velocity , about whose -ordinates are , is found to be capable of resolu tion into component angular velocities .
, about the of the fundamental tetrahedron .
The theory of screws is no .xt considered .
A twist on a screw can bo replaced by a pair of rotations about any two lines which are gate to each other in a certain linear complex .
The surface corresponding to the cylindroid is found to be of the fourth order with a pair of nodal lines .
Lastly , the condition of equivalence of any .
number of twists about given screws is investigated .
In kinetics , the measure of force is deduced from Newton 's second law of , and the laws of combination and resoIution are proved .
The consideration of the whole momentum of a body suggests the idea of moments of inertia , and a few of their properties are investigated .
The general equations of motion referred to any moving are then found , and in a particular case they reduce to a form sponding to Euler 's equations ; these are of the type The last part is occupied in the solution of these equations when no forces act , in terms of the Theta-functions of two variables .
A solu tion is obtained in the Prof. Owen .
On a Large Extinct Lizard .
where and is arbitrary .
But in order that these values satisfy the equations , , relation among the parameters of the Iheta-functions must be satisfied .
This is The solution is not complete , because after satisfying equations motion only four constants remain to express initial conditions , hereas six constants are required .
IV .
" " Evidence of a Large Extinct Lizard otiosaurus dentatus , Ow .
) from Pleistocene Deposits , New South Wales , Australia By Professor OWEN , C.B. , F.B. .
Received January 9 , 1884 .
( Abstrack ) In this paper the author describes a fraglnent of jaw with teeth of a fossil from the pleistocene at th ' Cuddie Springs New South Wales , transmitted by S. Wilkinson , Esq. , of the Department of Mines , Sydney .
A series of mparisons are detailed with known recent and fossil Saurians , and the 1nicrosoopic test applied to the tissues of the bone and tooth .
The conclusion arrived at is the fossil was part of a lacertian reptile , equal in size to the , but of carnivorous habits ; distinct from the largest existing toothed and pleurodont lizard iganteus .
For the 1nuch larger extinct pleurodont Saurian the author roposes the name Nofiosaurus dentatus .

