]\gt ; .
I.\mdash ; On the of the of By JOHN H. SHAXBY , B.Sc. , and E. ( Communicated by Principal E. H. Griffiths , F.R.S. Received November 19 , 1913 , \mdash ; Read January 29 , 1914 .
) ( From the Department of Pathology and Bacteriology , University College , Cardiff .
) I. Brownian movement , the persistent and ular motion of small particles suspended in a fluid , has been shown by the work of Wiener , * Jevons , Gouy , others to be independent of such conditions as vibration , intensity of illumination and convection currents ; it occurs equally at the surface of the earth and in deep cellars or tunnels .
Its activity , in fact , seems to depend only on the size of the particles , and upon the temperature and viscosity of the fluid in which they are suspended .
These facts Wiener , and subsequently several others , to attribute the movements to the molecular motion of the fluid , of which the particles thus act as indicators .
In 1905 EinsteinS embodied this theory in a definite form : he showed that the total displacement of a particle in any iven horizontal direction in a given time is proportional to the square root of that time , and is iven by the equations in which coefficient of diffusion , mean square of displacement in the direction of an arbitrary horizontal axis in time absolute e perature , radius of a particle , viscosity of suspending fluid , the gas constant , and 's constant , the number of molecules in a gramme-molecule of a .
Thus measurements either of or of X and ether with a knowledge of , and , allow to be calculated , and its value compared with that obtained by other methods .
The correctness of this theory has been strikingly confirmed by the series of experiments carried out by Perrin and his fellow workers They have both measurements of the coefficient of diffusion and of the displacement of particles in a given time in their verifications , and have also 'Pogg .
Ann 1863 , vol. 118 , p. 79 .
Proc. Manch .
Soc 1869 , vol. 9 , p. 78 .
'Journ .
de Phys 1888 , vol. 7 , p. 561 .
S 'Ann .
der Physik , ' 1905 , vol. 1 p. 549 .
Count $ , Rendus , ' 1908 , vol. 146 , p. 967 ; 1908 , vol. 147 , p. 475 ; 1909 , vol. 149 , pp. 477 and 54 ; 1911 , vol. 152 , pp. 1380 and 1569 ; AnIn .
de Chim .
et de Phys 1909 , Ser. 8 , vol. 18 , p. 6 .
Studies in Movement .
examined rotatory Brownian movement , for which Einstein*also supplied the theory .
Perrin 's first experiments were made upon statistical equilibrium of suspensions .
Small particles of equal size suspended in a fluid of density less than their own tend to settle to the bottom of the fluid ; this tendency is opposed by their Brownian movement , which , if it were not for , would distribute them evenly throughout the fluid .
The net effect is thus a distribution exactly similar to that of the air molecules in an isothermal atmosphere ; the number of particles in a given horizontal layer is constant as soon as a kinetic equilibrium has been established , and the ratio of the numbers in any two strata at a vertical distance apart is given by the equation , for suspensions , where is the mean number per unit volume measured at the lower level , that at the upper level , and the densities of the material of the particles and of the fluid respectively , and the volume of each particle .
The numbers of this equation and X in that of were determined by microscopic observations of suspensions enclosed in a glass cell .
The suspensions were boun(led both at bottom and ) by the flass of the microscope slide and cover-slip respectively ; the observations were thus made on what we call below " " enclosed drops The mean values .
determined were : Equilibrium of suspensions nian movement of translation Brownian moveulent of rotation , C5 Diffusion of suspensions 69 The conditions were varied in the series of experiments the extent:\mdash ; Mass and volume of particles , in the ratio of 1 to 70,000 and 1 to 90,000 respectively .
Viscosity of liquid , 1 tO 330 .
Difference , , between densities of particles and liquid , 1 to 30 .
Temperature , from C. to C. atnre of suspending : water ; and ureft solutions ; pure and diluted with water .
Nature of suspended particles : and asCic .
'Ann .
der ysik , ' 1906 , vol. 19 , p. 371 .
J. Perrin , ' Les Atoms , ' Lib. elix Alcan , 1913 , 3rd Edit .
, Mr. J. H. Shaxby and Dr. E. Emrys-Roberts .
These variations would appear to be amply sufficient for a satisfactory test with the exception of the last .
The mere agreement of the results obtained with two such similar substances as mastic and , both resins , is not in itself of much value .
The close accordance of the value of obtained in these various experiments with the values derived from entirely different methods is however strongly in favour of Einstein 's theory , as a complete , and not merely an approximate , quantitative descl.iption of Rrownian movement .
The opinion of other observers , that the movements are independent of the nature of the suspended particles , though not supported by exact measurements , must yet be accorded some value .
Nevertheless it seems desirable to examine the behaviour of particles quite different from resins , and particularly to any apparent anomalies in Brownian movement .
II .
In a previous paper*by one of us and Dr. S. B. Walsh , it was recorded that the spores of certain bacteria in suspension in various liquids did show Brownian movement .
The spores examined , those of Bacillus B. and others , are approximately ellipsoidal , of dimensions about .
The observations were made upon hanging-drop preparations .
The spore .
forming the suspensions at first exhibited Brownian movement , but after a short time a very tion of them became entirely stationary .
Small particles of other substances , such as carbon , and nonmotile cocci , such as Staphylococcus aureus , of about the same size , in exactly similar preparations , continued in Brownian movement indefinitely .
The immobility of the spores was shown to be independent of temperature and occurred in water , in saline solutions , in formol solutions , and in dilutions of glycerine of marked differences of density and viscosity .
The immobility was also found to take place whether the spores were living or had been previously killed by heat .
The only way in which it was found possible to inhibit the immobility of spores in hanging-drop preparations was by treating them with antiformin ( solution of sodium hydrate and sodium hypochlorite ) , a strongly alkaline liquid with great powers of attacking organic matter .
After this treatment spores showed persistent Brownian movement comparable with that of ordinary particles .
Acids were without effect ; the characteristic immobility appeared as usual in hanging-drop preparations of spores which had been treated with 50-per-cent .
hydrochloric acid for 48 hours .
III .
The further observations to be recorded show that in a hanging-drop preparation the immobile spores form a layer , one spore thick , at the air- water interface , movement in the plane of the interface as well as in the Brit. Med. Journ November 9 , 1912 , p. 1305 .
Studies in ian Movement .
vertical direotion being completely arrested .
In course of time these immobile spores congregate , still at the interface and still in a layer one spore thick , at the lowest , most dependent portion of the drop .
Provided the spore has leached the interface , the attainment of immobility is independent of the direction of its long axis relatively to the surface film .
The comparatively few spores which do not settle into close approximat , ion to the air-water interface continue to show Brownian movement .
Hanging-drop preparations were also made with particles , of equal size , of carbon , mastic , sulphur , rium sulphate , All these particles remained in free Brownian movelnent cvht down to the bottom of the drop , , they were not affected by the ater interface .
The formationl of the immobile layer was expedited heat , either by making a drop with nearly vater , or by heatin , after the drop was made ; this is probably because of the lessened viscosity , and to a smaller extent the diIninished density of the hot water , which permit the spores to gravitate more quickly to the air-water interface .
Spores are bodies of considerable density ( abont .
per cubic centimetre but this cannot explain their immobility , several of the other substances much denser , ] ) and barium sulptjate .
To show that their weight played no in the imlnobility at the bottom of the drop , an inverted drop was examined\mdash ; that is , a drop placed on the microq , cope slide itself , protected from draughts and evaporation by a cover-slip on a vaseline ring without touching the drop .
The film of immobile spores was again found at the air-water interface , this time at the top the drop .
This observation is allnded ) below .
Nor is the immobility a result of utination ; although in densely populated suspensions the spores of the immobile layer are close ether , especially about the centre of the surface , they show not the slightest signs of ylutination , either in two or three dimensions .
Sparse suspensions were made in which only a few ores appeared in the field of view , and these spores showed the characteristic immobility as soon a , s they reached the air-water interface , without any attempt at gregation .
IV .
It appeared then that the of spores be due to a face tension effect , that the spores were in some way able to become part of the surface of the drol ) , .
their kinetic energy of Brownian movement for the potential of tho surface film .
The cover-slip of a hanging-drop aration of pores in -hich immobility had occurred was lifted , placed on a vaseline on a flat Mr. J. H. Shaxby and Dr. E. Emrys-Roberts .
slide , and pressed down until the drop came into contact with the glass of the slide .
The suspension , now contained between glass surfaces both bove and below , was at once examined , and it was found that all the spores exhibited Brownian movement .
Spores in such enclosed-drop preparations are still found chiefly in the lowest portions of the drop , their ' rapidly from below upwards , as in Perrin 's suspensions of resin particles .
But , although the populated region is thus shallow , by reason of the high density of spores as compared with the fluid , it was in no sense a plane , or a surface such as that seen in the immobile layer of a hanging-drop preparation .
Thus , in a suspension of anthrax spores bounded above and below by glass , the distribution usual in suspensions is found\mdash ; the number of spores in a given horizontal stratum is stically constant .
But if the medium below is air , then the spores close to the air surface become immobile , and a further supply of spores comes down , to be in turn brought to rest .
The process continues until practically all the spores have collected into an immobile layer , one spore thick , at the bottom of the drop .
Even after a considerable lapse of time , however , a few spores remain in suspension , and consequently continue to show Brownian movement .
This does not indicate that they are of a different nature from the immobile spores : that a few spores should remain free for very long periods is to be expected from theoretical considerations .
The complete mathematical solution of the state of the suspension , after the lapse of any given time from the moment of formation of the drop , is a difficult matter , depending as it does upon the initial distribution of spores and upon the .
rate of immobilisation as compared with the rate of settling under gravity ; but the problem may be simplified by making the assumptions : ( 1 ) that the suspension is initially in the state of statistical equilibrium represented by Perrin 's formula in SI above , and ( 2 ) that the rate of immobilisation is so slow that it does not disturb this form of distribution of the spores remaining in suspension at any instant .
These two assumptions practically amount to the one , that the suspension must have time to settle into the state described in the equation before any large proportion of the spores has been brought to rest .
This appears to be very approximately true : at all times throughout the process of immobilisation , as long as any considerable number of spores remain in the body of the liquid , the population in the field of view is observed to grow less and less dense as the microscope tube is raised .
Let be the number of spores at any instant in a column of unit crosssection and depth , immediately above the air-water interface , those in a similar layer at a height above , then ?
, where is a constant .
Studies in Hence if is the total number of spores in the whole vertical unit column , The rate of immobilisation at the foot of column at instant considered is clearly iven by the expression , where is a constant .
Hence , which therefore ives s , where is the total lulilber of spores in the column initially .
Thus the number of spores remaining in suspension only becomes zero after an infinite apse o time : the observation some few spores still remain in the body of the fluid and retain their Brownian movement for a long pel'iod is thus accounted for .
If an immobile layer contains so navy spores as to leave no free air-lvatel interface whatever , the upper side of the spore layer acts just as Vlass would do in an enclosed-drop preparation , with the result that Browninn movement persists indefinitely the spores ) mpelled to renlai in suspension . .
The immobility of a spore is produced until it tches a distance from the air-water interface too small to be measured .
If Lbe microscope is focussed on the lowest part of a drop while the process of is on , spores can be observed in all from free Brownian movement to complete inlmobility .
On the depth of field in focus by increasing the di , umeter of the illuminaling bean it can always be delnonstrated that the most freely moving particles are the highest , and the quite stationary ones the lowest , but the whole depth which the occurs is certainly a small fraction of 1 .
This would of course be expected if the phenomenon of immobility is a result of surface tension , sinec Lord Rayleigh and others hown that the effecve thickIless of surface films is of the order of a few illimetres .
When the upper surface of the drop was one exposed to air the immobile layer was found to exist froul the first at the air-water interface .
The CJreater number of spores gravitated to the bottom of the drop and formed there a population exactly like that an enclosed-drop prepar lion , Brownian movement continuing indefinitely .
The upper layer of those water interface , fall through drop emained immobile .
Tbese spores were not , of course , further recruited from ] the main body of the drop , and were evidently tbose which to be at the interface when the drop was ) repared .
The ) bile s ] immediately Brownian lnovement when the cover-slip was pressed down into contact with the an enclosed drop .
In repeating this observation it happened at a certain ) of the margin of the enclosed drop the preparation extended under the covel-slip 550 Mr. J. H. Shaxby and Dr. E. Emrys-Roberts .
for a short distance so as to prolong the attachment of the suspending fluid to the cover-slip as compared with the usual more or less abrupt limit of the drop .
In this way there was produced a kind of mixed drop , the extension under the cover-slip being of the nature of a shallow drop , the rest of the preparation an enclosed drop .
The usual layer of motionless spores appeared at the bottom of the shallow hanging drop ; that these spores were not dried on to the , was shown by the fact that a few free spores were seen moving above them .
It was observed that the layer of immobile spores followed the downward curve of the meniscus the main enclosed drop ; immediately within that drop , just above the glass of the lide , the spores of the lower layer exhibited the usual Brownian movement of enclosed drops .
It was further possible to see the air-water interface edgewise , half way down the meniscus at the boundary of the enclosed drop ; only those spores which appeared to be in actual contact with the interface were motionless , those which were within the drop retained their movements up to a distance of less than 1 from the meniscus .
This directly confirms the statement above that the distance from the interface at which spores lose their Brownian moyement is exceedingly small .
To remove any doubt as to whether the spores at the air-water interface night be in some sense dry , enclosed drops , in which every spore was in Brownian movement , were separated into two drops by lifting the cover-slip .
It was found that the spores which were left at the air-water interfaces of both the drops thus formed were quite mobile , however quickly the preparations were examined .
VI .
The immobile spores seem to lie in a veritable surface skin , for even violent stirring of a drop by a platinum loop fails to restore any considerable number to the body of the liquid .
A drop , which was stirred while under observation , showed that the skin of spores was about upon the surface of the drop , but not broken up to any extent .
Again , if the microscope stage be tilted through a considerable angle while a hanging-drop preparation is being viewed , the immobile spores merely move slightly with the drop as a whole , while the spores exhibiting Brownian movement in the body of the drop drift rapidly above them across the field .
In some enclosed-drop preparations small air-bubbles occurred ; large numbers spores adhered to their surfaces , and in all cases these spores were absolutely motionless .
They were in the fluid , closely attached to the surface of the bubble .
Spores in free Brownian movement were noticed at distances less than 1 from the bubbles .
When by cautious pressure upon the cover-glass a bubble was made to move about , the spores were Studies in Iovement .
seen to remain in position upon its surface , rolling with it .
Very violent rolling resulted in .
off the surface film in stripq , and the curious appearance was presented of flat tails or ribbons , about 30 long and broad , composed of umobile spores .
These ribbons trailed out from the bubble into the liquid , leaving bare patches of corresponding upon the surface of the bubble .
The ribbons were presumably held together by minute traces of air , which , being gradually absorbed by the liquid , set free ' the spores , which broke away one by one to exhibit Brownian movement .
VII .
Xylene , paraffin oil , and aniline oil were added to different encloseddrop preparations of anthrax spol.es suspen ded in .
At the interfaces between water and the added liquid , in each case , spores were observed which were quite motionless , whilst those in the water continued their Brownian movement as usual .
No spores could be demonstrated ithi the xylene or paraffin , but the aniline contained number which were in motion .
In certain preparations small drops of xylene were noticed in the water , and their surfaces were studded with immobile spores , just as in the case of the air-bubbles described above .
the slide caused a similar immobility at the bottom of an enclosed drop .
Control preparations of showed none of the peculiarities which we have described\mdash ; free Brownian movement persisted indefinitely np to the surfaces of air-bubbles , xylene , etc. , and in no case was a film of immobile cocci produced .
VIII .
treatment with autiformin alluded to in SII was carefully repeated .
Anthrax ) ores were suspended in -per-cent .
antiforlnin and subjected to a temperature of C. for 20 nunuCes .
The suspension was then centrifuged , and the supernatant liquid discarded ; the deposit was washed with water and again centrifuged .
A suspension of the final deposit was made with water and examined as a drop .
The spores were considerably and irregularly reduced in size , and their surfaces appeared to have undergone a corrosive action ; the high refractivity usual spores was now much less marked .
In these drops there appcared no trace of the usual immobility , either immediately or after the lapse of days .
Occasionally an immobile spore could be found at the air-water face , but such spores were always and highly refractile , appearing to have escaped corrosion by the antiformin .
The bulk of the palticles , as stated , remained in free Brownian movenlent down to the bottom of the drop , the smallest , of course , the most active .
A number of untreated spores were added to such a hanging with the result the immobile layer developed as usual , was made up 5 52 Mr. J. H. Shaxby and Dr. E. Emrys-Roberts .
of highly refractile particles , evidently the added spores ; the small corroded spores retained their Brownian movement .
The continued movement after treatment with antiformin is thus due to an alteration of the urface of the spore , and not to any peculiarity of the liquid resulting from imperfect washing of the centrifuged deposits .
IX .
Bacterial spores examined in hanging-drop and in resting-drop preparations cease their Brownian movement and exhibit immobility at the air-water interface , an immobility involving loss of all Brownian movement even in the plane of the interface .
The only subsequent movement is closer aggregation in the interface , due to gravity , as a result of the slope of the surface of the drop .
( 2 ) The immobile spores to lie in a veritable skin at the surface of the drop .
( 3 ) Resumption of Brownian movement by immobile spores at the airwater interface can only be induced by ( a ) destruction of the interface by conversion of the hanging or drop into an enclosed drop , or partially and with considerable difficulty by violent stirring of the spores at the interface , so as to incorporate them into the body of the drop ; ( b ) alteration of the surface of the spores by the action of corrosives .
( 4 ) The phenomenon of immobility is also noted when spores are found at the interface between water and certain " " oils e.g. , paraffin , aniline , xylene , and grease .
X. Discussion.\mdash ; The henomenon of imnlobility of spores , under the conditions referl'ed to above , indicates a peculiarity in the nature of their surfaces , distinguishing them from other particles of similar size .
Since the immobility occurs only at the interfaces between the suspending liquid and other fluids , the effect can be reasonably attributed to surface tension .
As the presence of spores at the interface constitutes a final state of stable equilibrium it follows that the attainment of this state is accompanied by a decrease of the potential energy of the : one way of , this is to suppose that the surface tension is lowered for that portion of the suspending liqnid in the immediate vicinity of the imnobile spore .
On this supposition the )henomenon is closely allied to the increase of concentration in the surface layers of certain solutions , , those in which the increase of concentration is accol1lpanied by decrease of surface tension .
In sohltions the surface potential energy is reduced by some of the dissolved substance leaving the interior to the concentration of the surface film .
This excessive surface concentration has been fully discussed by Willard Studies in Movement .
Gibbs , J. J. Thomson , and others , and has been demonstrated in the froths of solntions of amyl alcohol , sodium oleate , etc. , by Miss Benson , Zawidzki , S and Milner Further , substances have been shown actually to separate out in a more or less solid form from saponin and other solutions and suspensions by and Shorter .
It must be noticed that , while the fact that spores remain at the interface , and are unable to break away from it , may be thus accounted , no satisfactory explanation is in this way given of the absence of Brownian moyement in the plane of the interface ; such motion would not require ) of work against surface forces , and should be possible .
immobility may be due to an bnormally high viscosity in surface films .
The existence of such a viscosity has been asserted by many iters : Plateau , Marangoni , and more recently Lord and Shorter have dealt with the subject .
The viscosity may be probably due in oule way to a surface contsmination ; in the present case it is difficult to how " " clean\ldquo ; surface , in Lord sense of the , could be obtained ; indeed , the spores themselves may be the " " contamination Two factors , then , may be regarded as entering into the of the immobility of bacterial spores at fluid interfaces : ( 1 ) a diminution of surface energy , due some peculiarity of the spores , this causing them , as soon as they are brought in any way within the of actien of the surface forces , to be drawn into close nation to the interface : and ( 2 ) the abnornlal viscosity of surface layers of liquids , which d the Brownian movement of the spores .
Particles other than spores , not producing a lowering of surface energy , are not drawn into snch close contact with the interface , and so do not experience the surface viscosity .
The viscosity concerned must be far berreater than that of glycerine , these layers of immobile spores show not the slightest trace of moyement under the highest magnifications , while the Brownian movement of spores in enclosed drops of pure glycerine is readily observabIe .
This , ever , is probably not an objection to the hypothesis here put forward .
viscosity produces a remarkable effect upon the otions of bodies as ' Scientific Papers , ' 1906 , vol. 1 , Paper , " " On the uilibrium of Heterogeneou , Substances 'Applies .
of Din .
to Phys. and Chem 1888 , pp. 190 ud ) .
' Journ. Phys. , vol. 7 , ) S .
phys .
Chem 1900 , p. 77 ; 1903 , vol. , p. 6 'Phil .
Mag 1907 , vol. 13 , p. 96 .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1903 , vol. 72 , ' Phil. Mag 1909 , vol. 17 , p. 560 .
'Roy . .
Proc 1890 , vol , 47 , p. 281 ; 1890 , vol. 48 , p. 127 .
Dr. B. Whiddington .
relatively vast as magnetic needles and rings of wire , whose inertia is very great as compared with that of spores , and the proportion of the surface exposed to the action of a surface viscosity is also much greater for a spore of dimensions only about 1 than for a needle or wire .
There is at present no evidence of an electrical factor in the phenomenon , but further work on this point is in progress .
The nsmission of Rays through Matter .
R. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , O.M. , F.R.S. Received November 25 , 1913 , \mdash ; Read January 29 , ) The experiments of this paper are the outcome of an atbempt to discover whether cathode rays are absorbed when their speed is sufficient to excite the radiation characteristic of the material they traverse .
The general laws of absorption of cathode rays were elucidated many years ago by Lenard , the law which bears his name is expressed the relation where is the " " intensity\ldquo ; of a beam of cathode rays incident on an absorbing sheet of thickness , and I is the " " intensity\ldquo ; of the emergent rays .
The , as measured by Lenard , was indicated by the htness of a phosphorescent screen struck by the rays .
In the above formula is the absorption coefficient .
For a definite initial speed of ray is constant , bemg the density of the absorbing material , while for any material Lenard found that varied inversely as the fourth power of the speed of the rays .
In the present experiments the number of the cathode rays incident on and emergent from various metallic sheets is studied .
The general disposition of apparatus is shown in fig. 1 , which is not drawn to scale ( ebonite insulation is shaded in the diagram ) .
is a narrow brass tube .
passing through an ebonite plug tightly fitting the small brass cylinder C. The top of consists of the metal leaf under examination , the leaf and the material of being in close contact .
is another brass cylinder of slightly larger diameter insulated from by an Lenard , ' Wied .
Ann vol. 66 , p. 255

