1880 .
] On some Points in the Pathology of Anthrax557 it was found necessary to describe , in general terms , the differences m the botanical composition , in the character of development , and m some points in the chemical composition of the produce also .
The object of the present section is to describe and discuss , more in detail , what may be called the botany of the plots ; that is , to show both the normal botanical composition of the herbage , and the changes induced , by the application of the different manuring agents , and by variations in the climatal conditions of the different seasons ; and , as far as may be , to ascertain what are the special characters of growth , above-ground or'under-ground , normal or induced , by virtue of which the various species have dominated , or have been dominated over , in the struggle which has ensued .
The method of taking the samples , and of conducting the botanical analyses and observations , is described .
The characters of the seasons in which complete botanical separations were made , as well as those of some of the seasons leading up to the years of separation themselves , are discussed .
The flora of the collective plots is described ; and the organization by means of which the constituent plants may maintain themselves , or succumb in the competition , is considered .
The characteristics of the individual dominant plants are pointed out ; and , finally , the botany of each of the twenty-two plots is fully detailed , and the changes induced , by season or manuring , are discussed .
IX .
" Preliminary Note on some Points in the Pathology of Anthrax , with especial reference to the Modification of the properties of the Bacillus anthracis by Cultivation , and to the Protective Influence of Inoculation with a Modified Virus .
" By W. S. Greenfield , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , Professor Superintendent of the Brown Institution .
Communicated by Professor Burdon-Sanderson , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1880 .
In the course of some experimental investigations into the pathology of anthrax at the Brown Institution , made during the past twelve months , two series of phenomena have been the subject of study , and in each some results which I believe to be novel have been attained .
These results have not only a considerable practical importance , if verified by other observers , but their interest in relation to the pathology of anthrax and other diseases appears to me sufficient to warrant their communication to the Royal- Society in the form of a preliminary note , leaving the full detail of the experiments for a future occasion .
The practical purpose of these investigations was to ascertain ( 1 ) by what means the virus of splenic fever may be so modified as to be capable of inoculation without fatal result , and ( 2 ) whether a modified 558 Prof. W. S. Greenfield .
[ June 17 , attack , produced by inoculation , exerts any protective influence against a future inoculation with unmodified virus .
The conclusions arrived at by the experiments made with this object were as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
That anthrax may be artificially communicated to bovine animals by inoculation with the blood or spleen , of the guinea-pig which has died of the disease artificially induced , and that the same result may be attained by inoculation with the Bacillus cultivated from the fluids of a rodent ; the disease thus induced being severe , but rarely fatal to previously healthy bovine animals .
' This result had already been attained by Dr. Burdon-Sanderson in some previous experiments , with the details of -which I was not acquainted when my own experiments were made .
2 .
In all the cases thus inoculated , the animals appeared to have acquired either a considerable degree of protection or entire immunity from the results of subsequent inoculation , although much larger doses of the virus were employed .
Some of my experiments on these subjects have been already published in the Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society .
In the course of these experiments , I employed on several occasions the Bacillus anthracis artificially cultivated in successive generations in aqueous humour , and finding that the results appeared to vary considerably with the stage of the cultivation , those furthest removed from the original parent source being more frequently inactive , I was led to make a series of 'Observations , of which I now desire to communicate the results .
They may be stated as follows :\#151 ; That when the Bacillus anthracis is artificially grown in successive generations in a nutrient fluid ( aqueous humour ) it maintains its morbific properties through a certain number of generations , but each successive generation becomes less virulent than its predecessor , requiring both a longer time and a larger quantity to exert its morbific action ; and after continuous diminution of virulence , at a certain stage in the successive cultivations , the , though maintaining all its morphological characters and its power of growth , becomes completely innocuous even to the most susceptible class of animals .
It may be added that the modified virus produces forms of modified disease which differ widely from ordinary splenic fever , both in the distribution of the Bacilli and in the nature of the symptoms and pathological appearances .
It does not appear necessary at the present moment to enter with further detail into the evidence upon the subject of modified inoculation and protection from further attack , for this could only be done by a detail of the experiments , which is beyond my present purpose .
But it is desirable that I should briefly state the general method employed in the determination of the gradual diminution of virulence by sue1880 .
] On some Points in the Pathology of Anthrax .
559 cessive artificial cultivations , and the evidence upon which the con-elusion is based .
The experiments were performed in a very simple manner .
The cultivating fluid employed was aqueous humour , the animals inoculated were chiefly mice , though guinea-pigs , rabbits , cows , and on one occasion a sheep were also used .
But mice , being especially susceptible to the poison , were mainly relied on .
The cultivations were performed in closed tubes , half filled with the cultivating fluid .
Every precaution was taken both to prevent the entrance of other organisms and to detect and eliminate from the series any cultivations which proved to be contaminated .
The cultivations were continued to the nineteenth generation , each successive generation presenting identical morphological characters at the various stages of its growth , and showing no diminution in the capacity for growth , nor marked variation in the time and tempeiature relations of its germination .
From each successive cultivation fresh cultivations were made , a microscopic examination was performed , some capillary-tubes were filled with the cultivation and preserved for future use , and , in most cases , a portion used for inoculation of a mouse .
The first series of experimental inoculations were made , step by step , as the cultivations proceeded , and when the results showed that the Bacillus , though still actually growing , might be inoculated in large quantities with impunity , a second series ox inoculations was made with the material which had been preserved in capillary tubes .
To this second series the objection might be made that the material had deteriorated by keeping .
The reply is to be found in the fact that the earlier the cultivation the longer had it been kept , so that the first cultivation might be two or three weeks older than the sixth , and would have had more chance of deterioration , whereas it was found to be equally virulent at the end of three months as when first used .
In no case was I able to produce any symptoms or a fatal result by inoculation with a later generation than the twelfth ; beyond that stage a large quantity of actively germinating rods and spores producing no result whatever .
The diminution of virulence was very marked , even at the eighth generation , both as regards the proportion of animals affected and the rapidity of action with an equal dose .
I do not desire at present to dwell upon any conclusions to be drawn from these experiments .
I would merely observe that , while they suggest a means of protective inoculation with a modified virus , the activity of which may be capable of exact determination , they also point to a modification of the views which have been entertained on the relations of the Bacillus anthracis to splenic fever .
Whether the facts are explicable on the hypothesis of alteration of the habitat of the Bacillus , acclimatization , and incapacity for transplantation to a different soil ; whether the same result would be attained by cultivaProf .
0 .
Heer .
On [ June 17 , tion in other media ; and , lastly , whether by any means the Bacillus might again acquire the power of producing the disease\#151 ; these are questions which can only be determined by further experiment .
X. " On the Miocene Plants discovered on the Mackenzie River .
" By Professor Oswald Heer , of Zurich .
Communicated by Robert H. Scott , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1880 .
On his return from his " searching expedition " to Arctic America of the year 1848 , Sir John Richardson brought to London a box of fossil plant-remains , which he had collected on the Mackenzie River , between Fort Norman and the Great Bear Lake River , in latitude 65 ' N. The deposits from whence the specimens were obtained had been discovered by Sir Alexander Mackenzie , in 1785 , and visited by Sir J. Franklin and Sir John ( then Dr. ) Richardson in 1825 ; but it was not until his second visit that Richardson was able to bring away specimens ( Journal , vol. i , p. 186 ) .
This first collection contained seventeen specimens , of which only fourteen allowed of exact determination , but it presented features of great interest , as it gave us the first indications of the character of the Miocene Flora of these inaccessible regions of North America .
The importance of procuring more copious materials for the study of these deposits hardly requires to be stated , and , accordingly , in the year 1871 , Mr. Robert H. Scott , F.R.S. , and Dr. John Rae , F.R.S. ( who had himself accompanied Sir John Richardson on his expedition in 1848 , when the first specimens were collected ) , obtained from the Government Grant Committee the sum of \#163 ; 50 to defray the cost of procuring and forwarding to London a collection of these plant-remains .
The actual expenses incurred have , however , fallen far short of the amount received .
The kind offices of Mr. W. Hardisty , Chief Factor of the Hudson 's Bay Company 's Service , were enlisted for the task , which was not an easy one to carry out .
The locality is distant from any inhabited port , and is merely passed by the boats on their annual trading journeys up and down the river , when the men are fully employed in making the best use they can of the short period available for navigation , and have but little time to look for fossils .
More than one attempt was made to send boxes to London ; but as this involved a long journey by boat before they reached the port of shipment , it is not to be wondered at that two or three cases failed to reach their destination .
At last , in the summer of 1879 , Dr. Rae learnt that a box of fossils , addressed to him , was lying at Manitoba

