12 Profs .
U. Ferrier and G. F. Yeo .
[ Mar. 24 , II .
" The Functional Relations of the Motor Roots of the Brachial and Lumbo-Sacral Plexuses .
" By David Ferrier , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Forensic Medicine , and Gerald F. Yeo , M.D. , F.R.C.S. , Professor of Physiology in King 's College .
Received March 10 , 1881 .
The functions subserved by the plexiform arrangement of the nerves of the limbs , and the mode of distribution of the several roots of the brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses , have been the subject of frequent speculation and of occasional experimental research ; and the question is one of considerable physiological and pathological interest .
A mere naked-eye examination of the mode in which the roots unite to form the larger trunks allows of an approximate determination of the possible roots of each trunk ; and by more minute dissection and maceration in dissociating liquids , as has been done by W. Krause in the case of the brachial plexus ( " Beitrage zur Neurologie der Oberen Extremitat , " 1865 ) , the constituent fibres of the nerve-trunks may be determined with greater precision .
But it is obvious that anatomical dissection , however minute , is unable to discriminate between the sensory and motor constituents of the nerve-trunks , or to indicate their functional relations and distribution .
The only possible methods by which this can be arrived at are by determining the effects of excitation or destruction of the individual roots of the plexus .
Both methods have been employed by different investigators in the case of several of the lower animals .
Johannes Muller and Van Deen experimented on the crural plexus of the frog .
From these , as well as from a consideration of the results of Kronenberg 's experiments referred to below , Muller came to the conclusion that " the plexuses of nerves seem to be destined , as far as their motor power is concerned , to convey to each muscle fibres from different parts of the brain and spinal cord . . . .
The plexuses may also be intended to intermingle the sensitive and motor fibres in accordance with the wants of the parts to which the nerves are distributed " ( Muller 's " Physiology , " translated by Baly , vol. i , p. 682 ) .
Kronenberg ( " Plexuum Nervorum Structura et Virtutes , " Berol , 1836 , quoted by W. Krause , cit. ) found that by mechanical or electrical stimulation of the roots of the brachial plexus in the rabbit , almost every muscle of the limb was thrown into action by each .
His conclusions as to the functions of the plexus were essentially the same as those quoted from Muller .
A similar view was maintained by Bartolomeo Panizza , from the results of experiment on the crural plexus of frogs and goats .
1881 .
] The Brachial and Bumbo-Sacral Plexuses .
( " Richerclie Sperimentali Sopra i Nervi , " Lettera del Professore Bartolomeo Panizza al Professore Maurizio Bnfalini .
" Annali Universali di Medicina , " December , 1834 .
Translated in " Froriep 's Notizen , " No. 945 , March , 1835 .
) Panizza found that section of one root caused only temporary weakness of the limb as a whole , a weakness which increased in proportion to the number of roots divided ; but there was no complete paralysis till the last root was cut .
He was of opinion that the various roots had a community of function , the whole forming a solidarity , but each by itself capable of maintaining the functions in their integrity .
The researches of Peyer ( " Zeitschrift fur Rationelle Medicin , " N. F. , Bd .
iv , 1854 ) on the peripheric distribution of the sensory and motor roots of the brachial plexus in the rabbit were of greater precision than those of Kronenberg .
Peyer cut the roots of the plexus and ascertained , by exposure and dissection , which muscles were made to contract by weak electrical stimulation of each root .
He also determined the region of distribution of the sensory roots by cutting all the roots save one , and then ascertaining in which area cutaneous stimulation still excited reflex movements .
The results obtained by Peyer as to the distribution of the motor roots differ considerably from those of Kronenberg , and he gives , in a tabular form , the respective muscles related to each root , from the fifth cervical to the first dorsal .
He found that most muscles received fibres from more than one root , and that the muscles supplied by each root did not fall into such simple groups as extensors , flexors , Ac .
, but were more complicated .
The muscles nearer the hand were supplied by the roots nearer the dorsal part of the cord .
As regards the sensory distribution , the rule was that the sensory roots were distributed to the cutaneous surfaces overlying the muscles supplied by the corresponding motor roots .
Peyer 's results were , in the main , confirmed by the researches of W. Krause ( " Beitrage sir Neurologie der Oberen Extremitat , " 1865 ) .
Krause adopted the method of dividing the individual roots and then tracing the lines of degeneration in the sensory and motor nerves , according to the Wallerian law .
He gives a tabular view of the peripheric distribution of the various roots , sensory and motor , in the work quoted , and again , with slight variations , in his work on the anatomy of the rabbit ( " Anatomy des Kaninchens , " 1868 , p. 247 ) .
Krause also made one interesting experiment on a monkey ( cynomolgus ' ) .
He divided the sixth and seventh cervical nerves , and ascertained that no degeneration ensued in the ulnar or median sensory nerves of the hand .
He concluded , by analogy from the ascertained distribution in the rabbit , that the ulnar and median Profs .
D. Ferrier and G. F. Yeo .
[ Mar. 24 , digital nerves were derived from the first dorsal and eighth cervical nerves respectively .
Passing from these experimental researches in the lower animals to observations in man , we have a fact of considerable significance in reference to the functional relations of the roots of the brachial plexus , which was first pointed out by Erb ( " Diseases of the Peripheral Cerebro-Spinal Nerves , " in Ziemssen 's Cyclopaedia of the Practice of Medicine , " vol. xi , p. 561 ) .
By faradisation over the brachial plexus , at a point corresponding with the exit of the sixth cervical nerve from between the scaleni muscles , the deltoid , biceps , brachialis , and supinator longus can be thrown into simultaneous contraction .
At the same time , he says it is difficult to avoid the musculo-spiral nerve , which can also , however , be separately excited .
We have ourselves found extension of the wrist a constant accompaniment of the action of the above muscular group when it is at all distinct .
From the collocation of the muscles affected in atrophic spinal paralysis , it has been ably argued by E. Remak ( " Zur Pathogenese der Bleilahmungen , Archiv fur Psychiatrie , " 1876 ; and " Ueber die Localisation Atrophischer Spinallahmungen nnd Spinaler Muskel-atrophien , " ibid. , 1879 ) that functionally related or synergic muscles are represented together in the anterior horns of the spinal cord ; and he indicates , more or less tentatively , the probable position of the centres of certain brachial and crural muscular groups in the cervical and lumbar portions of the cord respectively .
With the view of throwing light on these various questions by physiological researches , which may be regarded as almost directly applicable to man , we have made a series of experiments on the motor roots of the brachial and lnmbo-sacral plexuses in monkeys .
The brachial plexus in the monkey corresponds in its constitution , configuration , and distribution almost exactly with that of man .
It is formed by roots from the fourth , fifth , sixth , seventh , and eighth cervical , and the first dorsal nerves .
These unite and form the larger nerve-trunks in essentially the same way as in man .
The phrenic nerve , however , arises from the third and fourth cervical , and does not , so far as we have examined , receive a branch from the fifth , as is usually the case in man .
The lumbar and sacral plexuses , however , do not at first sight appear to correspond , at least as regards the origin of the roots which enter into their composition .
This is owing to the fact that there are seven lumbar vertebrae in the monkeys we have examined .
If , however , we detach the first lumbar vertebra and add it to the dorsal , so as to make thirteen dorsal vertebrae , and count the last lumbar as the first sacral , the harmony , as regards the mode of distribution of the several roots , becomes complete .
And , in one case which we examined , there were rudimentary ribs attached to the first lumbar vertebra .
It 1881 .
] The Brachial and Lumho-Sacral seems , in fact , warrantable to make the constitution of the lumbar and sacral plexuses a means of determining to which group the variable dorsal , lumbar , and sacral vertebrae in monkeys should be referred .
The mode of operation carried out by Dr. Yeo was as followsThe animals were deeply narcotised with chloroform , the vertebrae over the cervical or lumbar nerves exposed , the arches removed so a ?
\gt ; to expose the cord .
The dura matter was opened , and in the case of the cervical and dorsal nerves the posterior roots were cut in order to avoid all reflex movements on stimulation .
In the case of the roots forming the cauda equina this was not necessary , as the anterior and posterior roots run a long separate course , and can easily be isolated .
The motor roots were stimulated with closely approximated needle electrodes by means of the induced current of Du Bois Reymond 's secondary coil .
A minimal current , barely perceptible on the tongue , and just sufficient to produce distinct action , was employed , the distance of the secondary coil varying from 20 centims. or less , according to the degree of excitability of the nerves , which is liable to considerable variation at various stages .
Every precaution was taken to insulate the roots , and unavoidable diffusion was more or less eliminated by frequent repetition and uniformity in the results .
Occasionally , in the case of the brachial plexus , where the clear exposure of the roots is somewhat difficult , we used as one pole a flat electrode over the sacrum as a neutral point , and stimulated the root by hooking it up on a curved needle , which formed the other pole of the circuit .
The roots were stimulated either inside or outside the sheath , according to where they were most conveniently reached .
In observing the effects of stimulation , we directed our attention more especially to the resultant muscular combination rather than to the mere number of the jnuscles thrown into action .
It will be seen that this is of no little importance , as the actions excited are all complex co-ordinated movements of great significance .
It is very difficult , where so many events are occurring simultaneously , to analyse each muscular combination into the individual factors at work ; and therefore the muscles which we state to be in action are those which we have collected from various observations , the muscles being felt or partially exposed where it was difficult to be sure of their co-operation otherwise .
But we would not exclude , except when so stated , the cooperation of other muscles which were necessarily removed from actual observation , except by dissection .
But we believe that these may be fairly determined by anatomical considerations and by ascertained principles respecting the physiology of movements applied to the individual actions described .
We have experimented seven times on the brachial plexus , once unsuccessfully ; and six times on the lumbo-sacral plexus , twice with only partial success on two roots .
Profs .
D. Ferrier and G. F. Yeo .
[ Mar. 24 , The resultant actions have been very uniform , though occasionally incomplete , any variations of importance being specially indicated .
The Brachial Plexus .
Comprising the roots of the first dorsal , and the eighth to the fourth cervical .
First Dorsal.\#151 ; Adduction of the tand flexion of the fingers at the metacarpophalangeal joints.\#151 ; The distal phalanges are slightly extended , and the fingers spread .
The transverse diameter of the hand is diminished , and the dorsal aspect rendered more convex .
The action is that of the intrinsic muscles of the hand .
Along with the action in the hand there is also contraction of the muscles on the same side of the neck , causing the head to be drawn towards the shoulder .
In our first two experiments this action was more or less complicated by that described under the eighth cervical , due without doubt to imperfect isolation of the irritation .
Eighth Cervical.\#151 ; A complex action com prising firm closure of the fist ( intrinsic muscles and long flexors of fingers and thumb ) , pronation and flexion of the wrist ( to the ulnar side ) , extension of the forearm with retraction of the upper arm ( long head of the triceps specially in action ) .
The extensor muscles on the back of the forearm generally were specially observed in two instances to be rigid also .
The action here described may be exactly imitated by pulling some object hanging in front downwards and towards the hip , or by drawing a scimitar from heel to point through some object lying in front .
The muscles involved imply stimulation of nerves conveyed in the ulnar , median , and musculo-spiral .
The pectoralis major seems also to co-operate in this movement in man , but it was not specially observed in our experiments , though the shoulder wras observed to be depressed .
This would imply also the internal anterior thoracic , which anatomically is related to the cord formed by the eighth cervical and first dorsal .
Seventh Cervical.\#151 ; The upper arm is adducted , rotated inwards and retracted , and the forearm extended so as to bring the dorsum of the hand against the rump , the wrist and fingers flexed ( at their second phalanges ) , so as to bring the tips of the fingers towards the radial side and against the rump .
The action here described is the sculptor ani movement , and involves the co-operation of numerous muscles .
The teres major , latissimus dorsi , and subscapularis appeared to be in action .
The pectoralis major was noted in one instance also .
The triceps was also observed to be contracting , and also the long flexors of the fingers .
These muscles would indicate stimulation of nerve-fibres contained The Brachial and Bumbo-Sacral Plexuses .
1881 .
] in the subscapulars , musculo-spiral , and median\#151 ; possibly also the external anterior thoracic to the pectoralis major .
Sixth Cervical.\#151 ; The upper arm is adducted and the fore- arm extended and pronated , the wrist flexed , and the palm of the hand brought against the pubes .
This movement generally occurs quickly , and the palm of the hand is brought smartly backwards towards the middle line .
It seems to be the action which , if the hands were the fixed point , would raise the body upon a trapeze or branch .
We noted the contraction of the pectoralis , the latissimus dorsi , triceps , and flexors of carpus .
The pronators were also evidently in action , though not visible .
These muscles imply stimulation of the external anterior thoracic , long subscapular , and branches of the musculo-spiral and median nerve .
Fifth Cervical.\#151 ; The upper arm is raised upwards and inwards , the forearm flexed and supinated , the wrist and basal phalanges extended .
The fingers assume a claw position with their distal phalanges bent.\#151 ; The result of this action is to bring the hand up to the mouth .
Among the muscles in action we specially noted the deltoid , its clavicular portion more particularly , the serratus magnus , the flexors of the forearm\#151 ; biceps , brachialis anticus , and supinator longus .
Also the extensors of the wrist and basal phalanges .
These muscles imply stimulation of nerves conveyed by the circumflex , musculo-cutaneous , and musculo-spiral , and apparently also the median ( long flexors of fingers ) .
Fourth Cervical.\#151 ; The shoulder and upper arm are raised upwards and backwards , the forearm flexed and supinated ( the wrist ).\#151 ; The action here is in other respects similar to that of the fifth cervical , except in the raising the arm upwards and backwards .
The muscles we observed in action were the deltoid , the rhomboid , the supra- and infra-spinatus muscles , the flexors of the forearm and extensors of the wrist , though occasionally the last were not observed .
During stimulation of this root respiration ceases from spasm of the diaphragm .
The action described implies stimulation of fibres conveyed by the rhomboid , supra-scapular , circumflex , musculo-cutaneous , and musculo-spiral nerves , and also of the phrenic .
We would likewise note a fact which may require further investigation , viz. , that in one case in which we specially directed attention to the pupil , during stimulation of the motor roots from the first dorsal up to the fourth cervical , no action on the pupil was observed , though the usual movements of the limb occurred .
This is a fact which is of importance in reference to the question of a cilio-spinal centre in the lower cervical region of the cord .
VOL. xxxn .
c 18 " Profs .
D. Perrier and G. F. Yeo .
[ Mar. 24 , At , present we merely note the above fact , reserving the subject for future inquiry .
The Lumbo-Sacral ( ) Plexus .
The roots which supply motor fibres to the lower extremity comprise the first sacral , seventh , sixth , fifth , and fourth lumbar in the monkey , corresponding , as already indicated , to the second sacral , first sacral , fifth , fourth , and third lumbar in man respectively . .
Stimulation of the .
second sacral , and of the third and fourth sacral in the instance where we exposed these roots , gave rise to movements of the tail .
We could not determine movements of the pelvic muscles .
First Sacral ( second sacral in man).\#151 ; Adduction and flexion of hallux ' ( basal phalanx ) , flexion of the proximal phalanges of the toes with , slight-separation^ and extension of the distal phalanges ; The tail also moves to the same side.\#151 ; The action here is identical with that of the first dorsal in the brachial plexus , and is due to the intrinsic muscles of the foot .
Seventh Lumbar ( first sacral in man).\#151 ; .
of the .
leg -(ham- strings ) , plantar flexion of the foot ( sural muscles ) , adduction of the hallux and flexion of the toes at the proximal phalanges ( as in first sacral ) with the addition of flexion of the hallux at the distal phalanx ( long flexor).-^The thigh is slightly rotated outwards , so that the plantar aspect looks towards the middle line .
The tibia !
and peroneal muscles and long flexors of the fingers do not act .
* .
, , The nerves in action are branches of the great sciatic and its internal popliteal divisions .
, Sixth Lumbar ( fifth lumbar in man).\#151 ; Potation outwards of thigh ( which assumes a position midway between extension and flexion ) , flexion of the leg with intvard rotation,.so that the foot points inwards , plantar flexion of the foot with flexion of the hallux and toes at their distal phalanges .
The outer edge of the foot is .
somewhat raised.\#151 ; This complex action involves the co-operation of many muscles difficult to analyse .
We noted action of muscles in- the gluteal* region , the hamstrings , sural muscles , long flexors , the tibialis anticus and posticus , the peroneal muscles , and also the extensors of the toes .
This involves stimulation of nerves from the trunk , and from the external and internal divisions of the great sciatic nerve .
Fifth Lumbar ( fourth lumbar in man).\#151 ; Extension of the thigh , extension of the leg and pointing of great toe.\#151 ; The combined result is straightening of the whole limb directly backwards , and seems to be the movement which immediately precedes the lifting of the foot to take another step forward in the act of walking .
.19 1881 .
] The Brachial'andLumbo-Sacral PleoouSes- .
The muscles we ' observed in action are the gluteal , the 'adductors , extensor cruris , and the peroneus longus .
This latter 'explains the pointing of the great toe by depression of the base of the first metatarsal bone ; and at the same time the raising of the outer edge of the foot .
The sural muscles did not appear to contract .
This apparently involves stimulation of .
nerves conveyed by the superior gluteal , anterior crural , obturator , and musculo-cutaneous branch of the external popliteal nerve .
Fourth Lumbar ( third lumbar in man).\#151 ; Flexion the thigh on the pelvis and extension of the leg.\#151 ; This brings the leg in the line straight forwards . .
' .
, In addition to the il'io-psqas ( evidently in action , though'not visible ) , the sartorius , adductors , and extensor cruris .
, y ; erek,9bsqr v ed to contract .
No action was observable in the muscles of the leg or foot .
The nerves involved are cdnveyed fly the anterior crural and obturator trunks .
Stimulation of the third lumbar ( second in mqn ) caused contraction of niuscles in the flank , but no action in the leg .
The cremaster muscle was not observed , though its contraction should be expected here .
Stimulation of the second ( first in man ) and of the first lumbar nerves caused contraction of some muscles in the flank and hypogastric region .
I , t will be seen that the .movements which result from stimulation of the individual roots of the brachial and crural plexuses are not mere contractions , more or less strong , of various muscles ( though many muscles are excited to contraction by more than one root , as previous experimenters have found ) , but a highly co-ordinated functional synergy in .
each case , as Remak has supposed .
The muscles thrown into action by each root are innervated in most cases by several nerve-trunks , whence it would appear that the plexi-form junctions of the various roots are for the purpose of distributing the requisite motor fibres in different trunks to the various muscles engaged in each functional combination .
The result of section of each motor root would , therefore , be paralysis of the corresponding combination , not necessarily , however , of the individual muscles involved .
For , as many of these are innervated by more than one root , the degree of paralysis of the muscles would depend on the degree of motor innervation by the root divided ; and , therefore , while weakened , they might yet act in other combinations in so far as they were supplied by other roots .
Such appears to us the real explanation of the fact stated by Panizza , that there was no absolute immobility of the limb in his experiments until every root was cut .
It is evident that the cervical and lumbar enlargements of the spinal cord are centres of highly co-ordinated muscular combinations .
These ( as Krause s researches on rabbits , compared with ours , would seem to Mr. J. N. Langley .
On Histology and [ Mar. 24 , indicate ) may differ in different animals according to their habits and modes of activity .
The results we have obtained are capable of numerous physiological and pathological applications , but for the present we content ourselves with the above brief statement of some of the more obvious conclusions which they seem to justify .
III .
" On the Histology and Physiology of the Pepsin-forming Glands .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. MlCHAEL Foster , F.R.S. Received March 11 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of observations upon Rana temporaria , Bufo vulgaris , Triton tmniatus , Triton and Coluber natrix .
In these animals the changes which take place in the pepsin-forming glands under various conditions , viz. , digestion of varying amounts of food , attempted digestion of indigestible substances , as sponge , and fasting , were noted .
Omitting the pyloric glands , which in these animals form only a minimal amount of pepsin , all the pepsin-forming glands present certain phenomena in common .
In all , the living gland-cells contain granules , which diminish during digestion .
In each the amount of pepsin* contained by a definite weight of the gland-bearing mucous membrane is proportionate to the amount of granules contained by the gland-cells .
An increase or diminution of the cell-granules , in whatever way it is brought about , is accompanied by a corresponding increase or diminution in the pepsin-content of the cells .
Further , in different parts of the pepsin-forming region the amount of pepsin present is proportional to the granularity of the cells .
Hence we may conclude that the granules consist wholly , or in part , of pepsin or of some substance capable of giving rise to pepsin .
In some of these animals certainly , and probably in all , the fresh glands contain only a minimal quantity of pepsin , but , on the other hand , a large quantity of a substance from which pepsin can be obtained , i.e. , zymogen .
It follows , then , that in the previously mentioned estimation of pepsin , the pepsin found resulted from the splitting up of zymogen , and consequently that the amount of zymogen contained by the gland-cells is proportional to their granularity .
# The dried mucous membrane was extracted with one hundred times its weight of hydrochloric acid , 0'2 per cent. Griitzner 's colorimetric method was used in making the estimations .

