]\gt ; the " " activities or else ( as is readily done ) obtain an equivalent equation , involving , instead and , the ordinary thermodynamic potentials of the ions .
In the following paper an account is given of an attempt to test equation ( i ) by measurements of the potential difference between two aqueous solutions of potassium ferrocyanide , separated by a membrane of colloidal copper ferrocyanide .
*The experiments described in this paper wer6 begun in October , 1911 , and finished in April , 1912 , their publication having been unfortunately delayed .
' Zeitschrift fur Elektrochemie , ' vol. 17 , p. 572 1911 ) .
'Zeitschrift fur Physikal .
Chemie , ' , p. 129 ( 1908 ) .
from the data of Noyes and Johnston for extreme dilution , whence follow the values The values of as determined by the work of Noyes and Johnston for the concentrations employed by us are given in the following Iable , the concen .
trations being expressed in gramme-equivalents per litre .
Table I.\mdash ; Ionisation of at Concentration 40 53 * Noyes , 'Amer .
Chem. Soc. Journ vol. 30 , p. 351 ( 1908 ) ; Johnston , , vol. 31 , p. 1010 ( 1909 ) .
there is a better agreement , though there is undoubtedly a tendency for the percentage deviation to increase as the ratio of ution increases . .
In the case of the pairs , and , the percentage deviation is not more than would be expected from the errors of measurement .
On referring to Table III it will be seen that the percentage deviation increases as the proportion that plays in the determination of increases .
It seems probable , therefore , that a large part of the deviation is to be ascribed to uncertainGy in the calculation of It mnst also be remembered that even if the values of were accurately known there still occur deviation due to uncertainty as to the degree and nature of the ionisation of the potassium ferrocyanide and to deviation from the laws of ideal solution .
Taking these various points into consideration , it seems very probable that the potential difference between two

