On Anopheles ( Myzomyia ) Listoni Calcutta , Plate 5 .
JVwmmulites Orbignyi , Gal .
( wemmelmsis , de la Harp and van den Broeck ) , var .
elegans , Sow .
m , side view of a specimen from Alum Bay ; a and a ' , median and transverse sections of specimens of the megalospheric form , from Alum Bay ; a and a ' , median and transverse sections of specimens of this form from Huntingbridge ; / 3 , median section of a specimen of the microspheric form ( = the Orbignyi of Galeotti ) , from Hunting-bridge .
All x 24 .
a " and / S ' , central regions of sections of the megalospheric and microspheric forms ( a " from Alum Bay , / S ' from Huntingbridge ) .
x 200 .
In Plates 3 b " , 4 a " , and 5 a " and / S ' , some indication of the presence of the canal system is given , and in 5 / S ' , the further side of one chamber is drawn to show the perforations in the wall .
The perforations are not present in the median planes of the tests .
On the Occurrence of Anopheles ( Myzomyia ) Listoni in Calcutta , By J. R. Adie , M.B. ( Lond. ) , Major , I.M.S. , and A. Alcock , M.B. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Major , I.M.S. ( Received April 15 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1905 .
} Stephens and Christophers , in their original report* to the Royal Society , on the Relation of Malarial Endemicity to Species of , state , as their second conclusion , " that the distribution of A. [ = Myzomyia Listoni ] corresponds closely with an area of extremely high endemicity It will be remembered that they were discussing the relation of malarial endemia to species of Anopheles in Bengal ; that they found this endemia to vary from 0 in Calcutta to 7 in Barrackpore , 12 in Jalpaigori , and 72 in the Duars ( increasing as they proceeded north ) ; and that they concluded " that the distribution of certain species coincided with areas of high endemicity , while other species occurred , and even existed in profusion , where very little infection was present .
" All this is graphically illustrated in their well-known " Sketch Map " ( reproduced in their new book ) which shows the Calcutta region marked \#166 ; Rossm , a non-malarial carrier , and the Duars marked A. Christophersi [ = if .
Listoni ] an undoubtedly good carrier .
Stephens and Christophers were careful to say that their observations relating to distribution and endemia in Bengal were conducted in June , July , * Malaria Reports , Sixth Series , March 6 , 1902 .
3^0 Majors J. R. Adie and A. Alcock .
[ Apr. 15 } and August , and though they came to the general conclusions quoted above they insisted that much more extended observations were required .
1 In the second edition of their book , * just published , this generalisation is repeated\#151 ; " We may have countless numbers of M. Rossi as in Calcutta ( environs ) and get a malarial index of 0 , and this appears to hold good in Madras , Bombay , and , as far as our observations go , universally .
On the other hand , where we find M. Listoni , M. in India we have a high endemic index."f This preface is necessary in order to realise the importance of the discovery , lately , of M.Listoni in Calcutta .
During the last Christmas holidays we found , in the Museum tank in Calcutta , considerable numbers of Anopheles ' larvae , which were immediately examined , and referred to the nigerrimus and culicifacies groups .
On breeding out , these were found to be M. nigerrimus and M. Listoni , the former being much more numerous .
The larvae were found in shady spots near the bank , chiefly near and under a raft .
There was abundant aquatic vegetation and fish ( Cyprinidce , Sdccobranchus , and ) are numerous ; it was , in short , an ordinary Calcutta tank .
Our specimens show very well the palpal bands as described by Stephens and Christophers , " palpi , two broad apical bands . . . . .
one narrow basal .
This capture , in the first place , extends the geographical distribution of this species given in the books .
It is the only malaria-carrier that has been reported from Calcutta , other Anopheles being Rossi , fuliginosus , nigerrimus , Stephehsi .
In the next place it seems to show\#151 ; as , indeed , would be expected a priori\#151 ; that generalisations as to seasonal prevalence of specific Anopheles and .
endemic indices deduced therefrom , can only be made with confidence when observations are carried on throughout the year .
" Endemic index " is described as the percentage of infected children in any district , and in the investigations of the Malaria Commission the figure 0 for Calcutta was arrived at by the examination of only 191 children in June , July , and August , and was regarded as confirmed by the absence during those months of all the known malaria-carriers .
\#166 ; Now , however , that the approved malaria-carrier Anopheles ( Myzomyid ) Listoni is known to be present in Calcutta in December and January ( none have been found in February ) it seems reasonable to suppose that the June\#151 ; \#166 ; August observations may have merely coincided with the trough of a then dormant endemic curve for Calcutta .
This Would be agreeable to clinical : * * Practical Study of Malaria , ' p. 258 . .
' t See also Malaria Reports , Series VII , p. 23 .
t P. 195 , new edit .
1905 .
] Ora Anopheles ( Myzomyia ) Listoni in Calcutta .
321 experience , for the statement that there is no endemic malaria in Calcutta was a blow to many medical men in that city .
Incidentally we should like to put on record , as an outcome of the present report and as a suggestion for other observers , the results of an experiment undertaken to discover the natural foes of Anopheles ' larvae , about which , it seems , more is taken on hearsay than is actually known .
On February 7 three sets of larvae of all ages were placed , under conditions as natural as possible , in three separate cages .
In the first cage there were 12 larvae in water from which other aquatic animals had been strained .
From these 4 adults hatched out .
In the second cage there were 14 larvae in " strained " water .
From these 5 adults hatched out .
In the third cage there were 12 larvae and a single rapacious larva of a dragon-fly ( the common Ceriagrion coromandeliantis ) .
In this cage all the Anopheles ' larvae disappeared , and on February 22 an adult dragon-fly hatched out .

