350 Mr. A. II .
Y oung and Dr. A. Robinson .
" The Development and Morphology of the Vascular Sy in Mammals .
I. The Posterior End of the Aorta andu Iliac Arteries .
" By Alfred H. Young , M.B. , E.R.C.S. , Arthur Robinson , M.D. Communicated by Sir Will Turner , F.R.S. Received January 21 , \#151 ; Read Februan 1898 .
( Abstract .
) Though numerous observations have been made on the deve nient of the systemic aorta and on the aortic arches , inclu their modifications and transformations at the head end of the end but little attention has been given to the development and modi tions of the primitive vessels and the aortic arches at the caudal id , The statement that the primitive aortse are prolonged backw , from the dorsal region into the tail , and that , fusing there , they f a caudal aorta\#151 ; the middle sacral artery\#151 ; seems to be gener accepted by embryologists .
Obviously , if this view is correct , iliac arteries are not formed from , and do not represent any pari the primitive aortie , and they are generally regarded as being i mental in character .
Previous observations on the comparative anatomy of the m malian aorta and its terminal branches made by one of ourselve 1891 , seemed to show that the true posterior continuation of e primitive dorsal aorta was to be found , not in the middle sa\lt ; artery , but in the iliac and hypogastric trunks .
It was impossi however , to arrive at any satisfactory conclusion on the questior the absence of definite and precise information regarding the devel meant of the caudal end of the aorta and its branches .
We therefore commenced a series of observations on the devel meant of the posterior parts of the main systemic vessels in rat , mouse , ferret , cat , and sheep .
In the first three of these sections examined represent a fairly complete series of the ea stages of development .
In the cat several embryos of two differt stages were referred to , whilst our sections of sheep embryos rep sented only one stage of development .
In our description of these the embryos of each class are arrang in groups according to the stage of development of their artei systems , and in each group the general stage of development is in cated by a short statement of the condition of some of the ms organs .
On developmental grounds alone the following conclusions , win form a brief summary of the results of our observations , have be arrived at:\#151 ; , 1 .
The primitive aoitm are paired trunks which pass at eit t Development and Morphology of the Vascular System .
3,51 of the embryonic area into the vascular network on the wall of rolk-sac .
With the formation of the cephalic and caudal folds each litive trunk , at first almost straight , is so folded in front and nd that a dorsal and two ventral portions with uniting caudal i cephalic arches are differentiated .
The dorsal part of each trunk is modified in the cephalic region vessels of the head and neck ; the remainder of each dorsal lion fuses with its fellow of the opposite side to form the greater of the systemic aorta .
The cephalic or anterior ventral portions are converted into the \#166 ; t , the ventral part of the arch of the adult aorta , and vessels of v head and neck .
The caudal or posterior ventral portions either fuse together to 1 a common vitello-allantoic stem , as in rodents , or they remain irate and form the ventral parts of the allantoic arteries as in i ivores , ruminants , and man .
The ventral and dorsal sections at first are united anteriorly by tphalic arch and posteriorly by a primary caudal arch .
Additional alic arches are developed subsequently , to be afterwards utilised he formation of vessels of the head , neck , arid upper extremity of part of the arch of the aorta of the adult , whilst additional es in the caudal region may also be formed to be utilised as neral arteries .
The dorsal and ventral extremities of the primary caudal arches ain ; the dorsal extremities take part in the formation of the erior end of the aorta of the adult ; the ventral extremities are sed in the formation of the ventral portions of the allantoic or ivogastric arteries .
* The middle parts of the primary caudal arches disappear and replaced by " secondary " caudal arches which lie to the outer s of the Wolffian ducts .
In rodents and man the secondary arches transformed into the common and internal iliac arteries and the sal parts of the hypogastric arteries , whilst in carnivores they are mbly transformed into the posterior part of the adult aorta and u\gt ; the internal iliacs and dorsal parts of the hypogastric arteries . .
The vessels which are to be looked upon as the posterior con-aations of the primitive aorta in the adult in man , rodents , \amp ; c. , v the common iliac , internal iliac , and hypogastric arteries , and in i carnivores , \amp ; c. , the internal iliac and hypogastric arteries .
0 .
The common and internal iliac arteries are not segmental .sets , their branches may be .
1 .
The middle sacral artery is a secondary branch , probably 1 Presenting fused segmental vessels .
2 .
ihe systemic aorta is formed from the following parts of the Messrs. B. Moore and S. Vincent .
primitive vessels : the anterior ventral aorta , the fourth left ceph p aortic arch , the fused portions of the primitive dorsal aortas , am some mammals the fused dorsal ends of the caudal arches .
The permanent adult aorta , in so far as it is formed by the pri tive dorsal aortae , ends posteriorly either at the bifurcation into two common iliac arteries or at a point corresponding to this bifuu-tion , when by more extensive fusion involving the dorsal parts of secondary arches there are no common iliacs , and the external internal iliac arteries appear to arise directly and separately from aortas .
In each case the continuity of the primitive aorta is in rupted , and the primary caudal arches are replaced by second caudal arches , after which the continuations of the aorta are rej sented by the vessels into which the secondary caudal arches ultimately transformed .
Our conclusions are further supported by more extended obsei tions on the anatomy of the posterior end of the aorta , and terminal branches in mammals , and on the abnormalities they pres in man , a general account of which is included in the memoir .
' Further Observations upon the Comparative Chemistry the Suprarenal Capsules , with Remarks upon the N existence of Suprarenal Medulla in Teleostean Fish By B. Moore , M.A. , Sharpey Scholar , University Colle London , and Swale Vincent .
M.B. ( Lond. ) , British Med Association Research Scholar .
Communicated by Profee E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received January 27 , \#151 ; R\lt ; February 10 , 1898 .
( Prom the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) In a previous communication* we have shown that the pai segmental suprarenals of Elasmobranchs contain a chromogen w gives the same reactions as that of the medullary portion of the suj renal capsule of higher vertebrates , while the inter-renal body m same order of fishes contains no such chromogen .
These facts v put forward in support of views previously expressed , f t a segmental bodies corresponded physiologically , as well as morp logically and histologically , to the medulla of mammalian suprarei while the inter-renal corresponded to the cortex .
Now it has been already pointed out* that the known suprare * ' Koy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1897 ( read December 11 , 1897 ) .
f Swale Vincent , ' Eoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 , p. 64 , and ibid. , toI .
6 , p-other references ( given in these two papers ) .
J Swale Vincent , loc. cit. 176 ,

