]\gt ; Studies of the Processes Operative in Solutions .
XXI .
Hydrolysis of Cane Sugar by Dilute Acids .
By F. P. WOBLEY , M.A. , M.Sc .
, New Zealand , Leathersellers ' Company 's Research Fellow , Chemistry Department , City and Guilds ( Communicated by Prof. H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received July 29 , \mdash ; Read December 5 , 1912 .
) In Part XII of these studies an account was iven of a close and extended study of the hydrolysis of cane sugar by means of chlorhydric and nitric acids in aqueous solution and of the influence of corresponding salts on the rate of change .
In the course of the investigation , not only were unexpected sources of error discovered in the method used by workers in reducing their observations but it became obvious also that the accepted views by which enquirers in this field have been guided hitherto need modification in essential respects .
It was pointed out , in particular , that the usual method of applying the mass action equation , to say the least , is not the best : besides a possible general error due to an incorrect initial reading , it gives a spurious constancy to the values of , 1naking it difficult to detect actual departures from the unimolecular law ; it was shown that the following is a better form of equation to in which and are the sugar concentrations at times respectively , successive equal intervals of time taken as small the accul.acy of the observations allows or the rapidity of the change demands .
In the tion referred to , the hydrolytic activity of the acid studied was determined in solutions of moderate ; consequently it was desirable to consider whether the conclusions arrived at by previous workers who have usecl very dilute acids may not also odification .
The subject has been dealt with already in Part VI of the " " Studies on nzyme Action\ldquo ; published from the laboratory of the City and Guilds College , * by E. F. Armstrong B. J. Caldwell , whose experiments were made directly with the object of the action of ncids antl enzymes at low degrees of concentration .
As it had been found that when only a very small proportion of enzyme was present the course of the change approximated to a linear and not to a logarithmic function of the time , it appeared 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1904 , vol. 74 , p. 195 .
VOL. LXXXVII.\mdash ; A. Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , not unlikely that the same result would follow in the case of acids .
Armstrong and Caldwell used solutions of strength of hydrogen chloride and in order that hydrolysis be about half completed within 10 hours carried out their experiments at about .
The conclusion at which they arrived was that though the results they obtained did not proyide evidence that the proceeds at a strictly linear rate , the approximation to a straight line law during the first two and a half hours is very close , the first 10 or 15 per cent. of the change being practically linear .
They therefore regarded their results as proof that the hydrolytic action of a small proportion of an acid is comparable with that of a small proportion of an enzyme .
* Assuming this conclusion to be correct , it was hoped that by making a series of experiments and with the concentrations at which the rate of change was in accordance with the mass action law , subsequently increasing the ratio of sugar to acid , it would be possible to find the dilution at which the rate of change began to be a linear function of the time .
As the improvements that have been made , from time to time , in the apparatus permit observations being carried on during many days at a constant temperature , the experiments were all carried out at C. The hydrolyst used was dilute sulphuric acid .
In the first experiment , one-tenth of a molecular proportion of acid was used with 200 molecular } ) ions of water and one of sugar .
Readings were taken minutes and 30 minutes after mixing and then at intervals of 60 minutes , during 7 hours .
The solutions were mixed at .
The results are given in Table I. Each reading is a mean of five observations taken at intervals of 30 seconds at the time stated .
The first difference is low probably because the temperature in the tube was slightly low at first .
It will be seen that after the first two intervals , when but a small fraction of the is inverted , the rate of change decreases regularly as the action proceeds and that there is no indication of a linear relationship .
In a second experiment , the concentration of the acid was reduced to onehundredth of a molecular proportion .
The rate of was very slow .
* In view of the importance of the conclusions which E. F. Armstrong and R. J. Caldwell were inclined to draw from their observations on action of acids on cane sugar in dilute solutions , it appeared to me to be necessary to verify their results , utilising for this purpose the improvements effected by Mr. Worley in the polarimetric method and also in reducing the observations .
I am indebted to Mr. Worley for having undertaken the somewhat arduous task .
I may add that he completed the work last summer and that a preliminary verbal communication of the results was made to the Biochemical Club at their meeting on July 8 , 1911.\mdash ; H. Fi .
A. 1912 .
] Studies of the Processes Operative in Solutions .
The observations were continued\mdash ; with one or two interruptions caused by accidents to the temperature regulator\mdash ; during 13 days .
The results are given in Table II .
Again in this case the rate of change decreased as the action went on .
As the end-value was not determined , the value of could not be calculated .
On account of the interruptions , the time is iven as the interval between successive readings .
Table I. Table II .
In Experiments 3 and 4 the concentration of the acid kept the same as in the previous experiment , viz. one-hundredth of a molecular proportion , whilst that of the sugar was increased to two and four molecular proportions respectively .
The two experiments were carried out simultaneously on the two water circuits of the apparatus and were continued during a week with Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , one interruption near the beginning .
The end values were obtained by a given weight of the original solution in a steam oyen and making up by addition of water any loss caused by evaporation ; they are at the best only approximate .
The great difficulty of obtaining correct end values has been already dealt with* and will be further discussed in a later paper .
Two-decimetre tubes were used in these experiments in place of the fourdecimetre tube used in the previous experiment .
The results are tabulated in Tables III and In the third columns are given the differences per 60 minutes derived from the consecutive readings ; the fourth contain the values of the velocity constant deduced in accordance with the formula the interval of time being the interval between the consecutive from which the values and are derived .
The differences per 60 minutes rise at first but the abnormally high value of the third difference in both experiments would seem to indicate an unobserved temporaly rise in the temperature part of that interval .
In any case , after the third difference , when only about of the had been , the fall in the value of the differences is obvious .
Table III .
Table In the fourth column in the tables the values of fluctuate to some extent , on account of the errors of reading due to the very small amount of change during each interval .
They rise as the action proceeds but the fact that * Part XII , ' Chem. Soc. Trans 1911 , p. 349 .
1912 .
] Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
practically the same value is obtained in the two experiments is absolute proof that the rate of , at these concentrations , is proportional to the amount of cane sugar in solution .
The experiments show that at the relative concentrations of sugar and acid considered thele is no indication of the action being a linear function of the time .
It now became necessary to consider whether rise in the values of deduced by Armstrong and Caldwell were not due to the method of experimental values which they adopted .
The values of were dednced in the manner almost univelsally followed by means of the equation As has been pointed out , this method is open to serious It ives a spurious constancy to and any in the value of affects all the separate values of unequally , those at the inning being most affected .
In the four experiments considered , was determined 10 or 15 minutes aftel the solutions had been run into the polarimeter tubes .
If , as is very possible , the temperature had not then attained its correct value but was somewhat low , an apparent rise in the early values of and their later on wss to be expected from this cause alone .
The values of have consequently been recalculated using the equation and keeping the intelval of time constant .
The results of recalculating the values given by .
F. and Caldwell in the of two of their experiments ( representative of the two concentrations examined ) are set forth in Tables and , along with their own values , for comparison .
The strength of the acid was in each case ; the sugar solutions contained 171 and 342 .
of cane sugar respectively per litre .
In Table the interval of adopted is 90 minutes and 60 minutes and in Table minutes .
A comparison of the numbers arrived at with those previously obtained by Armstrong and Caldwell shows very clearly the errors that may arise from applying the mass action equation in the way usually advocated .
In the first place , the marked rise ( on which Armstrong and Caldwell relied ) in the early values and constancy in later values disappears and there is apparently a small continuous rise throughout each series which is scarcely perceptible in Table .
The rise is most probably caused by an error in the final reading at the completion of the inversion .
In the second place , the actual yalues of obtained by the two methods al.e somewhat different and the Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , Table Table 1912 .
] Studies of the Processes Operative Solutions .
irregularity of those obtained on using a constant time interval in the calculations shows that no importance can be attached to variations in the value of the constant when the interval is less than 60 minutes .
The first five or six values of , as originally determined in each series , consequently are not to be relied upon .
All evidence of a linear rate thus disappears completely .
The most conclusive evidence against it , however , is obtained on comparin the values of for solutions of different proportions of sugar .
If , as Armstrong and Caldwell supposed , there be a tendency towards a linear change in the more dilute sugar solution , i.e. , that the rate of change at this concentration tends to be independent of the concentration of the sugar , then increase in the concentration of sugar should not increase the rate of change in the same proportion and the value of should be much smaller in the case of the more concentrated solutions .
In point of fact , in the more concentrated solution , the value of , instead of less , was greater than in the more dilute .
It therefore appears that there is no reason to that the rate conditioned by a dilute solution of an acid differs in the manner suggested by Armstrong and Caldwell from that eHected by more concentrated acid solutions .
Consequently , there is not , at present , any evidence to show that the action of dilute acids is analogous to that of an enzyme used in small proportion .
This conclusiol ] , however , in no way affects the conclusion on which and Caldwell 's experiments were based , that a constant weight and not a constant prop ortion cf the total amount of cane sugar present is hydrolysed in unit time hen only a very small proportion of enzyme is used : the evidence adduced by Adrian Brown in support of this conclusion being decisive and in no way subject to the criticism which may be applied to the results obtained with acids .
Such a conclusion serves to accentuate the marked difference in behaviour of enzymes and of acids as hydrolytic agents .
The above account was written before the publication by Messrs. M. A. Rosanoff , .
H. Clark and R. L. Sibley*of the results of " " A tion of the Velocity of Sugar Hydrolysis These observers attribute the fall in the velocity coefficient found by Julius Meyer and the rise foumd by E. F. Armstrong and Caldwell to an erroneous value having been assigned to the initial rotation ; they show that values of the constant are obtained that neither nor fall by substituting for the observed initial values those 'Amer .
Chem. Soc. Journ Dec. , 1911 , p. 1911 .
Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , deduced from the subsequent part of the change .
The .
therefore conclude that the ] ysis follows a strictly unimolecular course .
There is little doubt that in Julius Meyer 's experiments , Hudson has already pointed out , the fall in the value of the constant arrived at is due to errors in the initial values ; the rise observed by and Caldwell is doubtless due to a similar cause .
These errors , however , are attributable probably not to inaccurate observations of the rotation but to the fact that the temperature had llot becolne constant .
Although Rosanoff , Clark and Sibley have arrived at a right conclusion , they have done so by an unsound method , by calculating an initial value in correspondence with the assumption they set out to prove , namely , that the action proceeds at a strictly unimolecular rate from the start .
They have also ovel.looked the fact that and Caldwell 's values at time are not the rotations at the time of mixing but those observed 10 or 15 minutes later ; it is , in fact , distinctly stated by them that the first reading was taken 10 or , after mixing , when the temperature had attained to that of the thermostat .
The American observers say " " that Armstrong and Caldwell 's observed values of are erroneous and that calculated values are much more reliable is clearly indicated by the data reproduced in Tables and The solutions corresponding to these tables have identically the same final rotation , , hence must have been identical in composition .
Yet the observed initial rotations were respectively and .
On the other hand , our calculated values , and , are practically equal The difference in Armstrong and Caldwell 's values at time is obviously due either to a slightly different interval of time having elapsed between mixing and ' t , he first reading or else to the temperature at not having been exactly the same in both experiments .
Rosanoff , Clark and Sibley have used the equation which is so generally adopted and have not seen that the errors due to an erroneous initial observation may be avoided by using the equation They have also ignored the possibility of an error in the final rotation In Part XII ( loc. cit. ) it is shown that the observed end point may be 'Zeit .
Physik .
Chem 1908 , vol. 62 , p. 59 ; , 1910 , vol. 72 , p. 117 .
'Amer .
Chem. Soc. Journ 1908 , vol. 30 , p. 1165 ; ibid. , 1910 , vol. 72 , p. 17 .
1912 .
] Studies of Processes in Solutions .
erroneous to a considerable extent ; it is also pointed out that it is possible to deduce an end point which gives the appearance of constancy to the values of , when in reality they should show a steady rise or fall .
The argument may also be applied when the values of are deduced by the equation in the case of a calculated initial value , as it is possible to so adjust the initial value as to make the values of approximate to constancy , in reality they should rise or fall .
Studies of the ocesses Operative in Solutions .
XXII.\mdash ; The Hydrolysis of Sugar by : Acid ; on imetric A By F. P. Communicated by Prof. H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received July 29 , \mdash ; December 5 , 1912 .
) In view of the fact that the acids used in the inquiries discussed Tart XII and the succeeding parts of these studies were all monobasic , it was desirable to rrate the hydrolytic activity of a dibasic acid , more especially with a view to following the progressive alteration in moleculal hydrolytic activity and apparent degree of hydration changes of concentration .
A series of experiments , sulphuric acid as the catalyst , has been carried out therefore on the lines of those described in Part Some of the complexities of the hydrolytic process and of the } ) olarimetric .
method of following its course were dealt with in that communication ; moreover , several disturbing factors were referred to , such as the change in the osmotic conditions as the action proceeds and changes in the optical activity of the various substances due to dilution , to their mutual interference , and to the influence of acids or salts ; the possible influence of\ldquo ; trotation however , was not mentioned , as there appeared to be no reason to believe that it in any way affected the results .
The study of the rates at which hydrolysis is effected by sulphuric acid of different degrees of concentration has shown that exactly the same complexities are met with in this case as were experienced in the case of

