22 Prof. Balfour Stewart and Mr. W. L. Carpenter .
[ May 1 , the production of dry north-west winds on the plains of Western India .
6th .
That this dependence of dry winds on the Himalayan snowfall affords a criterion for forecasting the probabilities of drought in North-Western and Western India .
In setting forth the above conclusions , it is , however , necessary not to ignore the fact that there other conditions besides those here considered which exercise a very great influence on the prevalence of dry winds and drought .
During the last famine period in India ( the years 1876 and 1877 ; in the former year in Southern India , in the latter in the North-Western Provinces and Rajputana ) , the pressure of the atmosphere was persistently and abnormally high , and this was due , as I showed in the reports on the meteorology of those years , to the condition , probably the high density , of the higher atmospheric strata .
Moreover this excessive pressure was shown to affect so extensive a region , that it would be unreasonable to attribute it to the condition of any tract so limited as a portion of the Himalayan chain ; and if dependent on the thermal conditions of the surface , which may indeed have been the case , this land must rather have been the major portion of the Asiatic continent than merely a relatively small portion of its mountain axis .
This question must remain for future inquiry .
It is referred to here to guard against too wide an application being assigned to the action of the Himalayan snows .
III .
" Report to the Solar Physics Committee on a Comparison between apparent Inequalities of Short Period in Sun-Spot Areas and in Diurnal Temperature-Ranges at Toronto and at Kew .
" By Balfour Stewart , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and William Lant Carpenter , B.A. , B.Sc. Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Solar Physics Committee .
Received April 21 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) It has been known for some time that there is a close connexion between the inequalities in the state of the sun 's surface as denoted by sun-spot areas and those in terrestrial magnetism as denoted by the diurnal ranges of oscillation of the declination magnet ; and moreover the observations of various meteorologists have induced us to suspect that there may likewise be a connexion between solar Inequalities and those in terrestrial meteorology .
This latter connexion , however ( assuming it to exist ) is not so well 1884.1 Sun-spot Areas and Diurnal Temperature-Ranges .
23 established as the former , at least if we compare together Inequalities of long period .
It has been attempted to explain this by imagining that for long periods the state of the atmosphere as regards absorption may change in such a manner as to cloak or diminish the effects of solar variation by increasing absorption when the sun is strongest and diminishing absorption when the sun is weakest .
On this account it seemed desirable to the authors to make a comparison of this kind between short-period Inequalities , since for these the length of period could not so easily be deemed sufficient to produce a great alteration of the above nature in the state of the atmosphere .
The meteorological element selected for comparison with sun-spots was the diurnal range of atmospheric temperature , an element which presents in its variations a very strong analogy to diurnal declination-ranges .
There are two ways in which a comparison may be made between solar and terrestrial Inequalities .
We may take each individual oscillation in sun-spot areas , and find the value of the terrestrial element corresponding in time to the maximum and the m in ran-m of the solar wave .
If we were to perform this operation for every individual solar Inequality , and add together the results , we might probably find that the magnetic declination-range was largest when there were most sun-spots .
If , however , we were to make a similar comparison between sun-spot daily areas and diurnal temperature-ranges we might not obtain a decisive result .
For at certain stations , such as Toronto , it is suspected ( the verification or disproval of this suspicion being one of the objects of this paper ) that there are two maxima and two minima of temperature-range for one of sun-spots .
The effect of this might be that in such a comparison the temperature-range corresponding to a maximum of sun-spots might be equal in value to that corresponding to a minimum , or , in other words , we should get no apparent result , while , however/ by some other process proofs of a real connexion might be obtained .
But if we can get evidences of apparent periodicity in sun-spot fluctuations when dealt with in a particular manner , we have at once a method which will afford us a definite means of comparison .
And here , as Professor Stokes has pointed out , it is not necessary for our present purpose to discuss the question whether these sun-spot Inequalities have a real or only an apparent periodicity .
All that is needful is to treat the terrestrial phenomena in a similar manner , or in a manner as nearly similar as the observations will allow , and then see whether they also exhibit periodicities ( apparent or real ) having virtually the same times as those of sun-spots , the phases of the two sets of phenomena being likewise allied to one another in a constant manner .
24 Dr. G. Gore .
New Phenomena in Electrolysis .
[ May 1 , It is such a comparison that the authors have made , their method of analysis being one which enables them to detect the existence of unknown Inequalities having apparent periodicity in a mass of observations .
A description of this method has already been published in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " for May 15th , 1879 .
The comparison was made by this method between sun-spot observations extending from 1832 to 1867 inclusive , Toronto temperature-range observations extending from 1844 to 1879 inclusive , and Kew temperature-range observations extending from 1856 to 1879 inclusive .
The following conclusions were obtained from this comparison .
( 1 .
) Sun-spot Inequalities around 24 and 26 days , whether apparent or real , seem to have periods very nearly the same as those of terrestrial meteorological Inequalities as exhibited by the daily temperature-ranges at Toronto and at Kew .
( 2 .
) While the sun-spots and the Kew temperature-range Inequalities present evidence of a single oscillation , the corresponding Toronto temperature-range Inequalities present evidence of a double oscillation .
( 3 .
) Setting the celestial and terrestrial members of each individual Inequality , so as to start together from the same absolute time , it is found that the solar maximum occurs about 8 or 9 days after one of the Toronto maxima , and the Kew temperature-range maximum about 7 days after the same Toronto maximum .
( 4 .
) The proportional oscillation exhibited by the temperature-range Inequalities is much less than the proportional oscillation exhibited by the corresponding solar Inequalities .
IY .
" Some New Phenomena of Electrolysis .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. , LL. D. Received April 23 , 1884 .
Whilst making a series of experiments on the " self-deposition of metals , " I observed , by trying a number of different metals , that several of them received an electrolytic deposit of cadmium by contact with cadmium in various solutions of that metal much more frequently than others ; I therefore made various experiments to determine whether this was due to difference of density of current or to other causes .
By means of these additional trials , I found , on passing an undivided current through a series of portions of the same metallic solution , that cathodes composed of different metals of equal amounts of immersed surface , required currents of different degrees of density to cause deposits of the same metal upon them , and that the differences in some cases were considerable .
Another singular cir-

