Philosoph : Transact : no.334 .
plate.3 Fig.9 .
Fig 8 .
AA BB CC EEEE IIEE ~~ ~I GG DD HPP VI .
A Letter from Mr. John Bonnet , Surgeon at Fowye in Cornwall , to Claudius Amyand , Esq ; Serjeant-Surgeon to his Majesty , F. R. S. concerning the preternatural Structure of the Pudenda in a Woman , described in Phil. Transact. No 379 .
AS there appears to be some Difference in the Accounts of the remarkable Structure of the Pudenda , &amp;c. of the Woman of Lanteglass , near Fowye , published in the Philosophical Transactions No 379 .
I take the Liberty of giving you a particular Account of what I observed , with respect to this Matter .
This I am the rather emboldened to do , as I repeatedly observed the wonderful Structure of the Parts , before the Birth approached , and before I was obliged to make the Incision .
This Woman was about 23 Years old when she was married , and some time after conceived .
As she was conscious of the preternatural Structure of the Parts , and her Mother apprehensive of the Danger that wou 'd attend the Delivery under such unhappy Circumstances ; they applied to me about the 7th Month , in order to engage my Assistance .
On viewing the Abdomen , I made the following Observations ; There was no Sign of the Umbilicus ; but about three Inches lower , than that is regularly placed in Persons naturally formed , there was a spongy , fleshy Extuberance , nearly of the Shape and Bigness of an HenEgg : Not , as is said in Mr. O ... .
's Account , composed of many Lobules invelop 'd by distinct Membranes , but entirely resembling that luxuriant Flesh which is thrown forth in ill-digested Wounds , and is therefore commonly called proud Flesh .
This was exceeding tender , and on it she cou 'd not bear the least Touch .
On the lower Part of this Excresence , I preceived two small Orifices , the one distant from the other about an Inch .
Thro ' these the Urine drops continually , nor is she able to retain it ; but by violent Efforts can make it spout out near a Foot .
What is said in Mr. O ... .
's Account of its being rendered multis rivulis , is certainly erroneous : The two Orifices , by which it is in deed discharged , being now very evident , and will easily admit a small Probe .
About 1/ 4 Inch below this Protuberance , was a transverse Orifice , much resembling the Anus of a Cock .
Through this the Menstrua regularly flowed : By this she was impregnated .
It was with some Difficulty I thrust my Finger into this Orifice , in order to reach the Os Tincae , which , however , I could by no means feel , it lay so deep ; but I plainly felt a thick transverse Membrane separating this Passage from an Orifice , which is situated about two Inches below that already described .
This lower Orifice seemed to be situated , exactly where the Symphysis of the Ossa Pubis is , in Women regularly formed , somewhat above the Place where the natural Hiatus shou 'd have been .
I cou 'd but just enter the Tip of my Finger into this .
There were a few Hairs scattered up and down irregularly about this Orifice .
The Anus terminated as usual , with a Sphincter , about two Inches below this lower Orifice , much more forward than usual .
So that the upper Orifice , which may be properly called the Orifice of the Vagina , was about 1/ 4 Inch below the umbilical Excrescence : The lower oblong Orifice ( or another Passage to the Womb ) was about two Inches below that of the Vagina : Contrary to what is said in Mr. O ... .
's Account , who makes the superior Orifice to be near four Inches below the Excrescence , and the lower Orifice four Inches from the superior ; and then says , the Anus , which he ( rightly enough ) makes to usurp the Place of the Fossa magna in Women naturally conformed , was five or six Inches below this .
According to this Proportion , the Woman must be really gigantic ; whereas she is a short , little Woman : But however , Worthy Sir , you may depend upon the Account and Measure I have given ; nor do Mr. O ... .
's Cuts any way represent the Case .
This Woman had no Os , or Ossa Pubis ; indeed there was an Apophysis jutting out from the lower Part of each Os Ilium , but they were far from being joined , as usual , by Synchondrosis .
July 18 .
1722 .
I was sent for late at Night .
I found the Woman with true Travail-Pains upon her .
The Throws were excessive violent , and the continued Agony had almost quite exhausted the poor Woman 's Spirits ; but the Orifice of the Vagina was no way sensibly dilated , tho ' the Anus , thro ' the Violence of the Throws , opened extremely wide .
In vain were all Endeavours to relieve her , by thrusting up the Child , and putting the Mother in a proper Posture .
Vain were her own Throws and Agonies .
Convulsions now had seized her , and Nature seemed to have denied a longer Life to the Mother , or an Entrance into it to the Child .
I was in the utmost Perplexity what to do under these Circumstances .
On the one Hand I considered , that if there was not a Passage made for the Child , and that by Incision , both Mother and Child must speedily perish .
On the other Hand I foresaw the Danger and Hazard of an Incision , and the unavoidable Censure of having killed the Woman , if she should die under the Operation .
At last Humanity so far prevailed with me , as to try a doubtful Method of preserving Life , rather than none .
I told her Mother , and the other Persons in the Room , that Death was inevitable , without making the Passages wider by Incision , and so attempting a Delivery ; withal apprising them of the Uncertainty of the Event of the Operation .
When they saw her ( as they thought ) just expiring , they delivered her into my Hands , to do with her what I thought fit .
I immediately thrust my Scalpel into the inferior oblong Orifice , and directly cut into the Orifice of the Vagina ; so brought them into one : Then presently with my Scissors , snipp 'd the transverse Membrane .
This being done , I easily introduced my Hand , felt the Head of the Child , and with my Finger thrust into its Mouth , drew forth a Female Infant , living and well formed , to my own Surprise and Admiration of all .
Thus was this Gordian Knot , at last , happily cut , that cou 'd not be untied .
Ever since she was delivered , in the Manner recited , she hath suffered a Prolapsus uteri , upon the least standing or walking .
I proposed to remedy this by a Suture , as is practised in the Case of the Vulva breaking into the Anus ; but she wou 'd by no means admit of it : So that she almost continually labours under a Procidentia uteri , and the Body of the Womb and Vagina are so corroded by the Acrimony of the Urine , that there are four or five Ulcers formed upon them .
Besides this Inconvenience , some of the thinner Parts of the Excrement are discharged at the Bottom of this largeCleft , and by introducing my Finger at the Bottom of the Cleft , I can easily thrust the Top of it thro ' the Anus : which is an Argument that there cou 'd not be 5 or 6 Inches between the oblong Orifice and the Anus , as is assertY 2 ed ed by Mr. O ... . .
, the Distance being scarce above two Inches .
Fowey , June 23 , 1724 .
FIGURARUMEXPLANATI O. FIGURA Octava .
A. Epigastrium .
B. Regio umbilicalis .
C. Hypogastrium .
D. Regio pubis .
E E. Spongiosa offa .
F F. Meatus urinarii , a partu satis visu faciles .
G. Orificium transversale .
H. Oblongum orificium .
~ .
Cicatrices duae , ex Urinae , ut videtur , acrimonia .
K. Anus , paululum anterius locatus .
FIGURA Nona .
P P. Fissura magna quatuor pollices oblonga .
L. Procidentia uteri .
M. Os Tincae .

