" Researches into the effects of certain Physical and Chemical Agents on the Nervous System .
" By Marshall Hall , M.D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The professed object of the author , in the present paper , is " to detail the results of an investigation of the phenomena and the laws of production and action of certain secondary or induced conditions of the nervous system , which are effected by a voltaic , and probably by any other electric current , but persistent after the influence of that current is withdrawn .
" This condition he designates by the new term electrogenic , as describing at once the origin and the independence of that condition .
On the present occasion he confines himself to the subject of the electrogenic condition of the muscular nerves , postponing to future inquiries that of the incident nerves and of the spinal marrow ; and also the modes of action of other physical and chemical agents , such as imechanical injury , heat and cold , strychnine , and the hydrocyanic acid .
The bones and muscles of the brachial lumbar and pelvic regions of a frog , being isolated from all the other parts of the body , excepting only by means of their respective brachial and lumbar nerves , which were per'fectly denuded on all sides , and raised from the glass on which the limbs were laid , a voltaic current from a pair of the " couronne de tasses " was passed downwards through the nerves , in a direction from their origin in the spinal marrow towards their terminations in the muscles .
Energetic muscular movements were at first excited ; and the current was thus continued during the space of five , ten , or fifteen minutes , and at the end of this period was withdrawn .
No sooner was the current discontinued than the muscles were affected with spasmodic contractions , and with a tetanoid rigidity , constituting the secondary , or what the author denominates the electrogenic condition ; an effect , which as instantly subsides on the restoration of the voltaic current .
The author proceeds to state the precautions which must be taken to ensure the success of experiments on this subject ; and traces the effects of desiccation of the nerves from spontaneous evaporation , and of the application of external moisture , on the phenomena ; and also the modifications introduced by varying the extent of voltaic contact .
Various experiments are then described , which the author instituted with a view to ascertain the nature of the electrogenic condition of the nerves , and the circumstances under which it is induced ; and he is led to the conclusion that the phenomena involve some voltaic principle which has not hitherto been fully investigated .

