THE COLLECTIONS PROM RODRIGUEZ .
INTRODUCTORY NOTES .
I. The Physical Features op Rodriguez.\#151 ; Is .
Bay ley Balfour , Sc. D. Situated in the Indian Ocean , 300 miles eastwards from Mauritius , the island of Rodriguez , like the sister Mascarene Islands , is a mass of volcanic rock .
A fringing reef of coral , studded with islets , skirts it on every side , extending on the west about three miles from the land , hut at the eastern end the edge of the reef is within about a hundred yards of the beach .
The island consists of a series of hills .
Its extreme length , from a little north of east to a little south of west , is about 11 miles and its breadth from north to south about 5 miles .
Within this base the land rises towards the centre of the island , where are several peaks , none attaining any great elevation , the highest point , Mount Limon , being only 1,300 feet above the sea level .
A main ridge runs along the island in a direction parallel with its greatest diameter , and rather nearer the southern shore .
Its slopes rise with some abruptness from the sea on the eastern side , but on the west extend more gradually seawards , and terminate in a wide coralline limestone plain studded with elevations between Bay Topaze and Anse du Peril .
The sides of the ridge as they stretch to the sea are deeply cut into ravines .
The slopes on the southern side are shorter , and the ravines deeper and more numerous , than on the north .
In their upper parts these ravines are bordered by lofty and inaccessible cliffs , upon which the volcanic structure of the island is well marked , and coulee is seen to succeed coulee , separated only by thin beds of cinder , agglomerate , or variously coloured clays .
In some instances these cliffs are 300 feet high , and as many as 12 successive coulees may be counted on one cliff .
Through these ravines the o o streams as they descend form in their upper parts a series of cascades , and sometimes high falls .
One of the finest is the Cascade Victoiro at the head of the Rivi\amp ; re Poursuite , where it falls over a cliff more than a hundred feet high .
As the sea is approached , the ravines expand into wide valleys flanked by gently sloping and terraced ridges .
These ridges too are in some places marked by lofty cliffs , on which the columnar basaltic character of the rocks is well seen .
A splendid example of this is Tonnerre Cliff in the valley Riviere aux huitres , a bold perpendicular face of prismatic columns 200 feet high .
At Point la Pouch also this structure is conspicuous .
On the south-west , the central volcanic ridge gradually descends , the ravines become less deep , and the ground spreads out into a large coralline limestone plain .
The demarcation betwixt the limestone and the volcanic rock is very sharp , hut isolated patches of limestone are met with on the surface of the volcanic region , in the vicinity of the main mass .
The caves from which the hones of the Solitaire and other extinct birds have been obtained occur in this limestone plain .
Some of them extend for a great distance through the rock , and are rich in stalactites and stalagmites ; others again are mere small holes .
The whole plain is riddled with these caves , and on walking over it one constantly passes small apertures and fissures , evidently " blow-holes " of some subterranean cavern .
Wide and deep hollows are also met with , on the floor of which large fragments of limestone lie in confused heaps .
These are apparently old caves of which the roofs have fallen in , and the continuation of the cavern may be found at either extremity .
The floor of these hollows is composed of volcanic soil , often with large masses of volcanic rock on the surface , and commonly clothed richly with vegetation .
It is in such places that many of the largest trees on the island are now to be seen .
The limestone is not found along the northern or southern shores , until we near the eastern extremity , where patches occur at the mouths of the valleys , and even at some distance from the shore .
One mass I discovered in valley Riviere de l'Est , more than a mile from the sea .
It is not so abundant at this end of the island .
On the southern shore between Riviere Palmiste and Rivi\amp ; re Poursuite , indications of raised beaches are seen , reaching about 20 feet above the sea level .
The existence of these masses of coralline limestone indicates clearly a former lower level of the island , and the evidence of raised beaches confirms this .
Rut a consideration of the coral reefs points as clearly to a time when the island stood at a higher level .
The present coral reef fringes the coast , extending , as I have mentioned , about three miles on the south-west side , but coming close inshore on the east .
An older reef , however , exists now quite submerged in some places to a depth of over 90 fathoms .
Upon it the present reef rests , and it extends westwards nearly 15 miles from the present coast , while on the east it stretches about six miles .
INTRODUCTORY NOTES.\#151 ; IS .
BAILEY BALFOUR .
We have thus proofs of great and intermittent oscillations of the level of the island .
Of the islets scattered over the reef , some are volcanic , and the others are composed of coralline limestone and sand .
They are all within the compass of the present reef , and only occur on its wider parts ; consequently there are none east of Port Mathurin on the north , and of Port Sud Est on the south .
Eight islets are of volcanic origin , Diamond , Booby , Katrine , Marianne , Desinee , Erigate , Crab , and Hermitage .
Only the last mentioned is on the south reef , the rest range round from the south-\vest to the north .
The coralline limestone and sand islets are more numerous , and are confined to the southern and western reefs , none occur on the north .
Ten of them receive names , as follows :\#151 ; Gombrani , Pierrots , Plate , Pantad , Pianqui , Misel , Chat , Zozo , Coco , and Sable .
The last two are mere accumulations of sand and coral debris close to the western edge of the reef , the others are all on the south .
It will be seen , then , that whilst the volcanic islets are chiefly on the north and west , the limestone ones are on the south .
The prevailing type of rock composing the island is a dolerite rich in olivine , in many places greatly decomposed .
Interspersed with the coulees of rock are found extensive beds of clay .
These , which possibly result from the decomposition in situ of the dolerite , are highly coloured , usually bright red or ochre , and form a prominent feature in the landscape .
The lava coulees seem to have flowed with great regularity , but there have been marked periods of intermission of volcanic energy .
Here and there dykes are seen , one specially well-marked occurs at the seaward end of the Charpentier ridge of the valley Biviere Bouteille , forming a conical projection through the layers of rock ; and it belongs to the same period of formation as do the higher parts of the island , \#151 ; apparently the last outburst of volcanic activity .
The exact position of old craters is difficult to determine .
Probably there were many foci , but the main ones seem to have been situated about the Grande Montagnc and Mount Malartic .
Many of the small conical isolated hills , such as Montagne duNord , scattered over the island , no doubt also mark the site of old foci .
The time that has elapsed since the last exhibition of activity has been sufficient to allow of a considerable amount of denudation , as is evidenced by the fragments of rock and debris with which the more level ground is strewn , and which cover the gentle hill slopes , rendering progression a matter of difficulty ; and the smooth and rounded outline of the hills , only occasionally interrupted by a projecting torr or pinnacle , as well as the deep ravines , testify to the same .
A curious feature deserves notice .
In the Bay aux Iluitres are found masses , about a foot in diameter , of shells of a mollusc embedded in or rather cemented by a material resembling tuff .
Unfortunately the specimens were lost in transmission , and thus a further determination of their nature is prevented .
o o 2 The island is comparatively dry , the soil is parched and arid , and during the warm season many of the streams are dried up .
But the size of the water-courses and the enormous boulders filling their beds , indicate large torrents in the rainy season In some places , issuing from the clay , springs occur , of which the water is brackish has a very disagreeable taste , and is slightly tepid , but has no smell .
As a rule the water of the streams is good and safe to drink , but that of some rivers , notably the fiivere Saumatre , is most unpalatable and apt to cause slight catharsis .
The climate is much like that of Mauritius , where the average annual temperature is 78 ' Eahr .
During the north-west monsoon from November to April , the weather is wet and warm , and frequently in the first months of the year the island is visited by severe hurricanes .
Prom May to October the south-east monsoon prevails , and then the weather is cool and dry .
The rainfall is exceedingly irregular , the hills being hardly high enough and not sufficiently wooded to arrest cloud ; hence also fogs are rare .

