490 Messrs. G. W. Macdonald and A. M. Kellas .
[ Mar. 21 , 18 .
Meckel 's ganglion in the embryo is closely connected with the otic ganglion .
19 .
The inferior maxillary nerve is at first unbranched .
20 .
The first formed part of the inferior maxillary represents the inferior dental of the adult .
21 .
The lingual nerve is formed later , and is still very small in the fifth week .
22 .
Meckel 's cartilage presents a close relation to the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve , and seems to determine the directions which they take .
23 .
All the important branches of the inferior maxillary nerve are represented in the embryo at the beginning of the sixth week .
24 .
At the beginning of the sixth week the otic and submaxillary ganglia are present .
25 .
The chorda-tympani , the Vidian , and the nerve of Jacobson are not branches of the fifth nerve , inasmuch as they are not developed from it .
26 .
The chorda-tympani and Vidian nerves are branches of the facial , being developmentally derived from this nerve ; the nerve of Jacobson is in like manner a branch of the glossopharyngeal .
27 .
The origin of these nerves in man is precisely similar-to that of the corresponding nerves in the rat .
28 .
There is no direct evidence to prove that the cells of the accessory ganglia of the fifth nerve are derived directly from the cells of the Gasserian ganglion .
29 .
The sympathetic associated with the carotid artery in the adult is represented in the embryo by fibres chiefly derived from the trunk ganglion of the vagus nerve .
X. " Is Argon contained in Vegetable or Animal Substances ?
" By George W. MacDonald , M.Sc .
, and Alex .
M. Kellas , B.Sc. Communicated by^ Professor William Bams ay , F.R.S. Received March 19* 1895 .
At Professor Ramsay 's suggestion , experiments were undertaken to see whether argon could be obtained from nitrogenous vegetables or from animal tissues .
Method : A few grams of the substance , after drying if necessary , were ground to a fine powder , desiccated at 110 ' C. , until the weight was constant , and a nitrogen estimation performed by Dumas ' method .
It was supposed that any argon compound would be decomposed , when the argon would come off along with the nitrogen .
The gas was collected in a nitrometer over well-boiled concentrated 1895 .
] Is there Argon in Vegetable or Animal Substances ?
491 notash solution , whence it was transferred to a small gasholder containing water which had been boiled for some hours .
The gasholder was connected with an * apparatus similar in general arrangement to that used by Professor Ramsay in July last , which enabled the gas to he dried and purified from hydrocarbons , carbon monoxide or hydrogen , the nitrogen being absorbed by being passed and repassed over magnesium turnings kept at a temperature of about 600 ' C. A three-way stopcock enabled the magnesium tube and the purifying and drying tubes adjoining it to be connected either with the second gasholder or with a " Sprengel , " so that any residual gas could be pumped off , and the tubes exhausted before admitting the gas .
The gas pumped off was collected in a piece of hard glass tubing ; it was then mixed with oxygen prepared by heating potassium permanganate , and sparked down until no further diminution of volume occurred , when excess of oxygen was known to be present .
The remaining gas was transferred by a gas pipette to a tube standing over mercury , and the oxygen present absorbed by potassium pyrogallate solution .
Only one experiment was carried through to the end in each case as the results seemed conclusive , although several determinations of nitrogen were made .
Peas were selected as a typical vegetable , and the following is a summary of the results :\#151 ; - Expt. Weight of desiccated peas taken .
Volume of nitrogen collected ( corrected for temp , and press .
) .
Weight of nitrogen .
Percentage of nitrogen in dried peas .
1 2 grams .
8-9446 8 -9455 1 c.c. 465 -8 466 -8 gram .
0 -5843 0*5856 6*53 6 *55 1 5 ; 342 c.c. of the volume collected in the first experiment ( which was done in two parts ) was passed over the heated magnesium until so much nitrogen was absorbed that both gasholders were full of water , and the residue was then left for about 12 minutes in the tubes , the magnesium being kept heated so that absorption of nitrogen might continue .
On connecting with the pump , a pressure of about 2 in .
was registered , and the volume of gas pumped off had a volume of nearly 8 c.c. After sparking down with excess of oxygen 6'8 c.c. of gas was left , and on absorbing by a strong solution of potassium pvrogallate ( stronger than Hempel recommends for complete absorption ) 0-12 c.c. of gas remained , which is less than 0'04 per cent , of the volume taken .
To see if this bubble of gas consisted of carbon monoxide , two experiments were performed with the oxygen 492 Is there Argon in Vegetable or Animal Substances ?
[ Mar. 21 used : 9 c.c. gave 0'2 c.c. residue , and 11'2 c.c. gave 0*25 c.c. residue with*about the same strength of pyrogallate .
As the quantity of oxygen used in sparking down was over 20 c c it might safely be concluded that there is no appreciable quantity of argon in peas ( or at least that the argon cannot be obtained with the nitrogen , by Dumas ' method ) .
The experiment with regard to the presence of argon in animal tissues was also negative in its results .
Mice were selected for the experiment , because the nitrogen from the whole animal could be conveniently collected by Dumas ' method .
The crucial experiment was carried out in the same way as before .
From three mice 550 c.c. of nitrogen was obtained .
This was absorbed by heated magnesium as usual , but the residual gas was left for over an hour in the tubes after the gasholders had been emptied , so that on connecting up with the pump only a few mm. of pressure was registered , and the total gas pumped off occupied about 1 c.c. After sparking down with large excess of oxygen about 10 c.c. remained , which gave a residue of 02 c.c. with alkaline pyrogallate , which would be abont 0036 per cent , of the volume taken .
Very careful experiments were undertaken to determine the exact percentage of nitrogen contained in mice , as the volume from the first experiments seemed too high .
Two experiments with complete mice gave the following results:\#151 ; Weight of mouse .
Percentage of water lost at 110 ' C. .
Percentage of nitrogen in desiccated animal .
grams .
A 13-7 73*1 11*0 B 12-5 70*5 10-6 1 A Kieldahl determination of the nitrogen in a small quantity of mouse A , by Mr. Fry , gave 9'6 per cent. , so that the high percentage seems confirmed .
The Society then adjourned April 25 .
over the Easter Recess to Thursday ,

