550 On Methods for the Continuous ( .
) and the Continuous Registration of the Diurnal Curve of the Temperature of the Animal Body .
By Arthur Gamgee , M.D. , E.R.C.P. , E.R.S. , Hon. LL. D. Edin .
; Emeritus Professor of Physiology in the Owens College , University of Manchester .
( Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1908 .
) ( Abstract .
) In this paper , the author , after referring at some length to the earlier stages of the investigations of the temperature of man , and pointing out that the first approximate attempt to study the diurnal curve of the temperature of man commenced with the investigations of Jurgensen , of Kiel , whilst the systematic study of temperature in disease dates from the time of the researches and publications of Wunderlich , discusses the methods which he has adopted : ( a ) for the absolutely continuous and ( 5 ) for the quasi-continuous , registration of the diurnal curve of the temperature of man .
After referring to the method employed by Benedict and Snell for the quasi-continuous record of the curve of temperature , and which , as he points out , is in no sense an automatic method and involves , in a very serious manner , the errors due to the " constantly varying personal equation " of the observer , he declares himself a strong partisan of a thermo-electric method of recording exceedingly minute variations of temperature .
Since the time when , early in life , he studied the question , the experimental conditions have changed in certain very important particulars:\#151 ; 1 .
By the discovery of galvanometers of the moving-coil type which we associate with the name of D'Arsonval , but which had their prototype in the syphon-recorder of Lord Kelvin , and which are practically uninfluenced by changes in the surrounding magnetic field .
2 .
By the remarkable improvements in apparatus for maintaining a practically constant temperature in considerable masses of liquids , so that a thermocouple may be maintained during days and weeks at so constant a temperature as to admit of the variations being absolutely neglected .
3 .
The employment of photographic recorders which admit of the registration of the movements of mirrors , as in magnetographs and seismographs has , further , facilitated such investigations as the one under discussion .
Under the headings ( 1 ) The Thermostat and its Regulators ; ( 2 ) The Diurnal Curve of the Temperature the Animal Body .
551 Thermo-couples , i.e. , the electric thermometers employed , and the leads ; ( 3 ) The Automatic Photographic Eecorder , the author develops his method of continuous photographic registration , and he dwells particularly on the perfection of the arrangement of the thermostat which he has , with the help of Herr Fritz Koehler , the University Mechanician , of Leipzig , devised .
He further discusses , at some length , the arrangements of the photographic recorder constructed for him by the Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company , dwelling particularly on the optical arrangements which have been adopted , and which have resulted in an extraordinary clearness and sharpness of the curves furnished by the instrument .
Discussing , in the next place , the method of quasi-continuous registration of the curve of the temperature of man , in which an ink-record is inscribed on a comparatively slowly rotating cylinder , the author describes " the thread recorder " of Mr. Horace Darwin , F.RS .
, specially wound , and with a more than usually delicate suspension , as the special instrument for the record of the curve of the temperature of man for such clinical investigations as will be carried out in future in hospitals and sanatoria .
The paper , which is one concerning methods of investigation rather than results , closes with some illustrations exhibiting the application both of the continuous and the quasi-continuous methods to the study of the temperature of the animal body .
The result which comes out very strikingly , and for the first time , from these first applications of very exact and automatic methods to the study of the heat changes in the animal body , is that the temperature in any given area never remains constant during two consecutive minutes or fractions of a minute , in consequence , no doubt , of varying , and in some cases , perhaps , rhythmical , variations in the action of the great vaso-motor centre and the centres which are subordinated to or in relation with it . .
i i/ i : '\#166 ; i:o ; , i \lt ; 111 !
; , i ; i ;

