11 .
" Hourly Observations on the Barometer , with experimental investigations into the phenomena of its periodical oscillation , " by James Hudson , Assistant Secretary and Librarian to the Royal Society .
Communicated by J. W. Lubbock , Esq. M.A. V.P. and Treas .
R.S. Mr. Lubbock having found , from his examination of the meteoro ?
logical observations made daily at the Royal Society , that they af ?
forded no satisfactory result as to the daily variation of the barometer in consequence of the too great length of the intervals between the times of observation , the author undertook the task of making a series of hourly observations for a period sufficiently extensive to furnish preliminary data for explaining the anomalies of the barometrical oscillations .
The present paper contains these hourly observations , amounting to about 3000 in number , and made in the months of April , May , June , and July , 1831 , and in those of Janu ?
ary and February of 1832 .
The standard barometer of the Society has been observed for about 16 or 18 hours during the day , through a period of 7d days ; and also at every hour , through the whole twenty-four hours , for 30 days : the water barometer every hour , day and night , for 15 days ; and the mountain barometer also every hour , day and night , for the same period .
The relative levels of the surfaces of the fluids in the cisterns of each of these barometers , were accurately determined by Mr. Bevan .
The most striking results afforded by these observations are exhibited by means of linear representations in four drawings which accompany the paper .
The respective variations from each general mean , being referred , according to a given scale , to the mean line , and their points of distance from it , at each successive hour , being connected together by straight lines , the barometrical and thermometrical changes being each referred to the same scale , exhibits the striking connexion that exists between them .
The comparison of the simultaneous movements of the three barometers shows the general accordance of their mean variations ; and the precession in time , by about an hour , of the mean motions of the water barometer over those of the standard barometer ? .
and also the precession , by the same interval , of the mean changes of this latter instrument over those of the mountain barometer .
The author concludes by announcing many objects he has in view in the investigations in which he isat present engaged .

