2 .
" Experimental Researches in Electricity .
" Twenty-fifth Series .
On the Magnetic and Diamagnetic Condition of Bodies .
By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S , &amp;c. Received September 9 , 1850 .
As the author could find no polarity in diamagnetic bodies when under magnetic influence ( a result described in the 23rd Series of these Researches ) , he endeavoured to discover some other physical condition of them , and of magnetic bodies , by which he might obtain an insight into their respective natures , and establish the true place of the magnetic zero ; and considering the power with which a magnetic body moves , or tends to move , from weaker to stronger places of action , and that of a diamagnetic body to pass from stronger to weaker places of action , he hoped to obtain some results of condensation with the first class , and of expansion with the second , when they were subjected to very strong magnetic action ; the respective bodies being selected from the class of gaseous substances , in which change of volume can be easily produced and measured .
In the first place , therefore , a ray of light was passed over the surface of powerful magnetic poles surrounded by different gases , and the place of its source carefully examined by telescopes , micrometers , and other means , to ascertain whether the layer of air in contact with the poles was affected in its refracting force ; but though the experiment was made in oxygen , nitrogen , and other gases , not the slightest effect was visible .
Resigning this process , therefore , two air-tight chambers were made , in which the magnetic poles formed the chief part of the internal surface of the chamber .
The one was formed by bringing the flat ends of the two poles to within - , -th of an inch of each other , with a frame all round to form the sides ; and the other by 41 cutting away the central parts of an iron cylinder so as to give it the form of an hour-glass , and then enclosing that part by an air-tight copper tube .
Cocks were attached to these chambers for the introduction and removal of gases , and for the application of gauges , which were able to indicate a change of volume equal to the o--oo-th part of the contents of the chamber .
When any given gas was introduced into the chamber , and the latter then placed between the poles of the electro-magnet , any possible alteration of volume would be shown by the gauge as soon as the magnet was rendered active ; but whatever gas was employed , or whatever power of magnet used , not the slightest change was produced .
Thinking it possible that there might be expansion in one direction and contraction in another , the gases were then examined as to the production of any currents in them , but no traces of such appeared .
From these results , the conclusion was arrived at by the author , that the motions of magnetic and diamagtnetic bodies in each other do not appear to resemble those of attraction or repulsion of the ordinary kind , but to be of a differential action , dependent perhaps upon the manner in which the lines of magnetic force were affected in passing from one to the other during their course from pole to pole ; the differential action being in ordinary cases between the body experimented with and the medium surrounding it and the poles .
A method of showing this action with the gases is described , in which delicate soap-bubbles are made to contain a given gas , and these , when held in the magnetic field , approach , or are driven further off , according as they contain substances , magnetic or diamagnetic , in relation to air .
Oxygen passes inwards or tends towards the magnetic axis , confirming the results formerly described by the author in his account of his investigations of flame and gases .
Perceiving that if two like bubbles were set on opposite sides of a magnetic core or keeper cut into the shape of an hourglass , they would compensate each other , both for their own diamagnetic matter and for the air which they would displace ; and that only the contents of the bulbs would be virtually in a difelrential relation to each other , the author passed from bubbles of soapy water to others of glass ; and then constructed a differential torsion balance to which these could be attached , of the following nature:--A horizontal lever was suspended by cocoon silk , and at right angles , at the end of one arm , was attached a horizontal crossbar , on which , at about 1inch apart , and equidistant from the horizontal lever , were suspended the glass bubbles ; and then the whole being adjusted so that one bubble should be on one side of the iron core and the other on the other side , any difference in their tendency toset inwards or outwards from the axial line caused them to take up their places of rest at different distances from the magnetic axis ; and the power necessary to bring them to an equidistant position became a measure of their relative magnetic or diamagnetic force .
In the first place , different gases were tried against each other , and when oxygen was one of them it went inwards , driving every other outwards .
The other gases , when compared together , gave nearly equal results , and require a more delicate and finished balance to measure and determine the amount of their respective forces .
The author now conceived that he had attained to the long-sought power of examining gaseous bodies in relation to the effects of heat and the effects of expansion separately ; and proceeded to an investigation of the latter point .
For this purpose he prepared glass bubbles containing a fill atmosphere , or half an atmosphere , or any other proportion of a given gas ; having thus the power of diluting it without the addition of any other body .
The effect was most striking .
When nitrogen and oxygen bubbles were put into the balance , each at one atmosphere , the oxygen ( drove the nitrogen out powerfully .
When the oxygen bubble was replaced by other bubbles containing less oxygen , the tendency inwards of the oxygen was less powerful ; and when what may be called an oxygen vacuum ( being a bulb filled with oxygen , exhausted , and then hermetically sealed ) was put up , it simply balanced the nitrogen bubble .
Oxygen at half an atmosphere was less magnetic than that at one atmosphere , but more magnetic than other oxygen at one-third of an atmosphere ; and that at one-third surpassed the vacuum .
In fact , the bubble with its contents was more magnetic in proportion to the oxygen it contained .
On the other hand , nitrogen showed no difference of this kind ; whether a bubble contained that gas more or less condensed , its power was the same .
Other gases ( excepting olefiant and cyanogen ) seemed in this first rough apparatus to be in the same condition .
The air-pump vacuums of all the gases were alike , including that of oxygen .
Hence the author decides upon the place for zero , and concludes that simple space presents that case .
When matter is added to space it carries its own property with it there , adding either magnetic or diamagnetic force to the space so occupied in proportion to the quantity of matter employed ; and now thinking that the point of zero is well determined , he concludes to use the word magnetic as a general term , and distinguishes the two classes of magnetic bodies into paramagnetic and diamagnetic substances .
There is no other gas like oxygen : its paramagnetic character is very high .
A solution of protosulphate of iron in distilled water was prepared , of which a certain bulk in a glass bubble was of the same paramagnetic force as an equal volume of oxygen ; the solution was then of such strength as to contain of crystallized protosulphate of iron seventeen times the weight of the oxygen which could counterbalance it .
In another case , a glass bubble , containing one-third of a cubic inch of oxygen , was opposed to a corresponding bubble having within only an oxygen vacuum .
As soon as the magnetic power was on , the oxygen passed inwards , and it required a force equal to one-tenth of a grain to hold it out at the equidistant position .
The author then refers generally to the air as a paramagnetic medium , because of the oxygen it contains , and in the next , or Twenty-sixth Series of Researches , he proposes to enter , after some preliminary inquiries , into the great subject of ' atmospheric magnetism .

