I. " Contributions to the Fossil Flora of North Greenland , being a Description of the Plants collected by Mr. Edward Whymper during the Summer of 1867 .
" By Prof. OSWALD HEER , of Zurich .
Communicated by Prof. G. G. STOKES , Sec. R.S. ( Abstract .
) The author stated that the examination of the fossil plant-remains which had been at various times brought to Europe from North Greenland by M'Clintock , Inglefield , Colomb , and others , as well as by 3Mr .
Olrik , formerly Inspector of North Greenland , the results of which were pub lished in his work , 'Flora Fossilis Arctica , ' had led him to certain conclusions , the verification of which , by means of additional material , became very important .
Accordingly Mr. R. H. Scott had applied to the British Association at the Nottingham Meeting in 1866 for a grant of money towards the expenses of an expedition to Greenland .
A sum of money was voted to a Committee , consisting of Dr. H-ooker , Sir W. Trevelyan , Dr. E. Perceval Wright , and Mr. E. Whymper , with Mr. Scott as Secretary .
This grant was subsequently most liberally augmented by the Government-Grant Committee of the Royal Society .
The condition laid down by both of these bodies was that a complete series of specimens should be deposited in the British Museum .
Mr. Scott being unable to go to Greenland himself , Mr. Whymper , who had , previously to the nomination of the Committee , formed the plan of travelling in Greenland , undertook to visit the shores of the Waigat , and to carry out the wishes of the Committee , if his time would permit him ; and grants of money were accordingly entrusted to him conditionally .
Mr. Whymper took with him Mr. Robert Brown , to assist in the collection of the specimens ; and the party ultimately arrived in Greenland on the 16th of June , 1867 .
Prof. Heer then gives extracts from Mr. Whymper 's Report , submitted by the Committee to the British Association in August last , and also from notes furnished to him by Mr. Brown .
From these statements a considerable amount of information as to the geology of the district is derived .
All the specimens which had been previously brought to Europe , with the exception of a few brought by Dr. Lyall , had been found at a place called Atanekerdluk , on the mainland of Greenland , in lat. 70 ?
or thereabouts .
Dr. Lyall 's specimens were found on Disco Island , at the opposite side of the Waigat Strait from Atanekerdluk .
Mr. Whymper accordingly , having engaged a number of natives as labourers , went to Atanekerdluk in the first instance , reaching it on the 22nd of August .
The party remained at the spot for some days , and made a large collection of specimens .
The plant-beds are reported to be on a hill , at a height of nearly 1200 feet above the sea , and the deposit is limited in extent .
Details of the different beds observed are contained in the paper .
Professor ieer observes that the statements of Messrs. Whymper and Brown confirm the accounts of Olrik and Inglefield respecting the stratification of the coal-deposits and plant-beds of Atanekerdluk .
They show that there is a considerable succession of sedimentary strata , pierced by volcanic rocks which form the summits of the mountains .
Fossil plants occur in all the beds ; but the Siderite and Limonite contain them in the greatest abundance and in the best state of preservation .
In fact the slabs from these beds are quite covered with specimens , lying in every direction .
With the vegetable remains two land-insects were discovered .
Of the plants many species were inhabitants of marshy or moory ground , viz. Phragmites , Sparganium , Taxodium , and Menyanthes , which are all indlcative of a freshwater deposit , as is also a Cyclas , of which mollusk one valve was found .
These facts , taken together with the absence of marine forms , show the deposit at Atanekerdluk to have been a strictly freshwater formation .
After completing the examination of the mainland at this point , the party crossed the Waigat , and landed on Disco Island , where they found plant-remains at two localities , Ujararsusuk and Kudliset .
Coal-seams are exposed at several points on the east and south coasts of Disco ; but no specimens showing impressions of leaves , like those of Atanekerdluk , had ever been brought to Europe , except those obtained by Dr. Lyall .
However , Sir C. Giesecke , in his MS .
journal , of which a copy is in the possession of the Royal Dublin Society , mentions that he had noticed such impressions .
The coal has been worked at several points , if the rough operations which have been carried on deserve the name of workings .
It is at present only obtained at the one spot , Ujararsusuk .
The coal occurs interstratified with sandstones and shales , which rest on trap .
The fossils were discovered among the debris brought down by the streams , and were traced up to a bed of brown sandstone about 100 feet above the sea .
At Kudliset , the deposits are very similar to those just described ; and there also the fossils were found , in the first instance , in a torrent-bed .
The shores of the Waigat were examined for some distance to the northwards , on each side of the strait , without any fresh discoveries being made , and the party returned to Atanekerdluk .
Mr. Whymper , in concluding his report , says that the success of the expedition has been " primarily due to the invaluable information given by Herr C. S. M. Olrik , the Director of the Greenland Trade .
Scarcely less are our thanks due to Herr K. Smith , the present Inspector of North Greenland , and to Herr Anderson , of Ritenbenk .
Both of these gentlemen gave much assistance at considerable personal trouble ; and without their assistance it would have been almost impossible to obtain the collections .
" The general conclusion to be drawn from the accounts of the succession of strata &amp;c. is that , on both sides of the Waigat , the sedimentary rocks are covered by Miocene deposits pierced by volcanic rocks , which appear in places as thick beds of basalt and trap .
In his summary of the botanical results of the expedition , the author announces the identification of fourteen species from Disco Island , among which Platanus Guillelmce ( Gopp .
) and Sequoia Couttsie ( Hr .
) are the most common .
Of Magnolia Inglefieldi , a species originally identified by means of leaves found at Atanekerdluk , two cones were found in the Disco beds , thus corroborating the previous determination , and proving to us that this splendid evergreen ripened its fruit so fiar north as the parallel of 70 ? .
Seven out of the Disco species occur also at Atanekerdluk ; and eight agree with those of the Lower Miocene of Europe .
The age of the deposit is accordingly well ascertained .
The collection from Atanekerdluk contains 73 species , of which 25 are new to Greenland .
Some of these are known European forms , especially Smilax grandifolia , which , at the Miocene epoch , occurred over the whole of Europe .
Of Sequoia Langsdoyffii , as was to be expected , abundant evidence has been accumulated , showing how favourable the conditions of climate and soil were to its growth .
Among the most interesting specimens are the flowers and fruit of a chestnut , the latter in a very perfect condition .
The discovery of these proves to us that the deposits in which they are found were formed at different seasons , in spring as well as in autumn .
The Miocene plants discovered in Greenland have now reached the number of 137 species , and those of the Arctic Miocene Flora 194 .
Of the Greenland species 46 , or exactly one-third , agree with those of the Miocene deposits of Europe .
The determination of the age of the beds as Lower Miocene has accordingly been confirmed .
Four of the species agree with those of Bovey Tracey , among them Sequoia Couttsice , the commonest tree in the latter locality .
In concluding the first part of his paper , the author offers a r6sumne of the grounds on which the determinations of the species have been based .
Seventeen species are represented by the leaves and organs of fructification among the Greenland specimens .
Ten species are only represented by leaves in Greenland ; but their organs of fructification occur elsewhere .
Seventeen species of those of which only leaves are found exhibit , however , such marked characteristics , that there can be no doubt about their identification .
Five Cryptogams have been satisfactorily recognized .
Accordingly , though it must be allowed that the systematic position of many of the plants from North Greenland is still uncertain , yet the considerable number of absolutely identified species which can be produced enables us to form a clear idea of the Miocene Flora of North Greenland .
The second part of the paper contains the specific descriptions of the various forms .
The collection , consisting of some 300 specimens , has been deposited in the British Museum .

