I. " Chemical Examination of Burmiese Naphtha , or Rangoon Tar .
" By WARREN DE LA RUE , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and HuGO MiiLLER , Ph. D. Received August 1 , 1856 .
In several localities of the kingdom of Burmah , there emanates from the soil in considerable quantity a peculiar oleaginous substance , which is employed for a variety of purposes , but chiefly as a lampfuel and as an unguent , by the natives , and exported in moderate quantities under the name of Burmese naphtha , or Rangoon tar .
It is obtained by sinking wells of about 60 feet in depth , in which the liquid is collected by the miner as it oozes from the soil .
At the common temperature this substance has the consistence of goose-fat ; it is lighter than water , has usually a greenish-brown colour , and possesses a slight odour , peculiar , but not disagreeable .
It consists almost entirely of volatile constituents .
Burmese naphtha has already attracted the attention of other chemists ; at present we refrain from entering into a discussion of their results , since it is our intention to give a full history of this remarkable natural product when , after the completion of our experiments , we shall have the honour of submitting to the Royal Society a detailed account of our investigation .
The object of the present communication is to trace a mere outline of the results at which we have arrived up to this moment .
The circumstances under which petroleum-for this is the collective term which comprehends a great variety of oily emanations similar to Burmese naphtha-occurs in nature , all tend to prove that these substances are the products of a slow destructive distillation of the residuary matter of a primeval creation : this being admitted , the idea naturally suggested itself of examining this substance in comparison with the products of artificial destructive distillation .
With this view , one of us " was induced to procure , through the intervention of a friend , several tons of Rangoon tar , which was carefully collected at the source , and transmitted to Europe in well-secured vessels .
Our experience in the course of this inquiry , has shown that this quantity , large as it may appear , was by no means too ample a supply .
Burmese naphtha contains indeed so great a variety of substances , and some of them in so exceedingly minute a proportion , that even the large amount of material at our disposal was insufficient for the complete examination of several constituents , the presence of which we had succeeded in establishing beyond a doubt .
As an example , we may state that Burmese naphtha contains small quantities of organic bases , the study of which we were compelled to postpone to a later period , when an additional quantity of material , which is now on its way to Europe , will have come to hand .
We have already mentioned that Rangoon tar is almost entirely volatile , and preliminary experiments proved to us that the distillation could be effected most conveniently , and with less danger of obtaining products of decomposition , in a current of steam ; first of a temperature of 100 ?
C. ( 212 ?
F. ) , and subsequently of steam superheated by passing , before it entered the still , through a system of pipes the temperature of which could be regulated .
Treated in this way , it furnishes 96 per cent. of volatile products , fluid and solid .
Steam of 100 ?
C. ( 212 ?
F. ) carries over 11 per cent. of a volatile oil perfectly free from solid hydrocarbons , which at that temperature are entirely retained in the distillatory apparatus .
Between the temperatures of 1100 and 145 ?
C. ( 230 ?
-293 ?
F. ) , 10 per cent. of a further distillate is obtained , which is almost free from solid hydrocarbons .
The temperature may be raised to 160 ?
C. ( 320 ?
F. ) without materially augmenting this per-centage ; but on gradually increasing the temperature of the steam to the fusion-point of lead , the operation yields 20 additional per cent. of distillate , which retains its fluidity at 0 ?
C. ( 32 ?
F. ) , notwithstanding the presence in it of an appreciable quantity of solid matter .
At this stage of the process the products of distillation begin to solidify on cooling , and about 31 per cent. of a crystalline material is obtained sufficiently consistent * Warren De la Rue .
22 to be submitted to pressure .
After this the consistence of the products of distillation begins to diminish ; and whilst the temperature of the steam is considerably raised , 21 per cent. of a mixture of solids and liquids distil , the latter predominating especially as the operation proceeds .
In the last stage of the process the distillate completely changes its character , becoming very dark in colour , of a pitch-like consistence , and exhibiting scarcely an indication of the presence of crystalline matter .
When this product , which amounts to about 3 per cent. , has passed over , there remains in the still a coke-like mass , which contains a small quantity of earthy impurities .
Although there is a considerable difference between the specific gravities of the first and last fiactions of the distillates , all the products of distillation , like the original oil , are lighter than water , and could be separated therefore by means of the well-known apparatus ( called a Florentine flask ) employed in the distillation of essential oils .
By exposing the distillates obtained beyond the temperature of 145 ?
C. ( 293 ?
F. ) to a freezing mixture , nearly all the crystalline matter solidified , and became removeable by means of filtration and pressure .
It was thus ascertained that Rangoon tar contains from 10 to 11 per cent. of solid constituents ( paraffin ) .
Solid Constituents .
The solid product , when removed from the fluid hydrocarbons , still retains a portion of the latter with much obstinacy ; in order to purify the solid , it has to be subjected to the action of boiling concentrated sulphuric acid , and to be subsequently washed , first with an alkaline solution , then with water .
On redistillation , the paraffin is obtained quite white , but even now it still retains some fluid hydrocarbons which have resisted the action of the sulphuric acid ; the greater part can be removed by pressure between folds of cloth in a powerful hydraulic press and subsequent exposure for some months to the air , in which the fluids gradually disperse .
By fractional crystallization from hot alcohol , we have been enabled to separate the solid product into at least two distinct compounds , which appear to have the same per-centage composition , agreeing either with C , H , , or Cn H+I , , but which differ from each other in their physical properties .
By the action first of sulphuric , acid saturated with anhydrous acid , then with anztydroIs sulphuric acid itself , we believe that we shall obtain compounds which will enable us to determine a rational formula for each of these interesting bodies , Liquid Consti'ten z.s In order to purify the liquid constituents of Burmese naphtha , they were , after the separation of the solid portion from such as contained any , twice redistilled in a current of steam , first of 100 ?
C. ( 212 ?
F. ) , and subsequently of superheated steam , the temperature of which was gradually raised .
In the redistillation , however , steam of only 100 ?
C. ( 212 ?
F. ) was found to carry over fluids which boiled at a temperature as high as 300 ?
C. ( 572 ?
F. ) .
A further separation of the various products was effected by repeated fractional distillations ; but no absolutely constant boilingpoints could be obtained , notwithstanding the great number of distillations and the large quantity of material at command .
It is true that considerable portions of distillates could be collected between certain ranges of temperature , tending to indicate a constant boilingpoint ; nevertheless it soon became evident that distillation alone could not effect the separation of the various constituents , and that recourse must be had to other processes .
The employment of concentrated sulphuric acid first suggested itself , , and by its means a whole group of hydrocarbons could be removed from the distillates , the residue consisting of hydrocarbons , on which it had no action .
This was an important step ; but recourse was subsequently had , with even more success , to the action of strong nitric or a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids , by which means a series of nitro-comrpounds were obtained , which presented the advantage of being more easily studied than the sulpho-acids .
The nitric-acid method , which has already been described at some length* , promises to be of general applicability in the separation of complex mixtures of hydrocarbons , and has , in the hands of Mr. C. Greville Williamst , been lately employed with advantage in the investigation of " Some of the products of the distillation of Boghead Coal at low temperatures , " Hydrocarbons separable by SulpAuric Acid and Nitric Acid .
The proportion of hydrocarbons removeable from the various distillates by means of concentrated sulphuric acid , nitric acid , or a mixture of both acids , is in most cases small when compared with the part not acted ulponi ; it increases generally , however , with the boilingpoint of the fluid , varying from less than one-tenth to nearly one-third part of the original compound-hydrocarbon .
The nitro-compounds obtained by means of strong nitric acid are fluids at the lower end of the series , whilst with hydrocarbons boiling above 200 ?
C. ( 392 ?
F. ) they are of a resinous consistence ; they frequently retain with obstinacy a portion of the not-acted-upon hydrocarbons , and more especially if the experiment be conducted upon a small scale ; nitrocompounds are sometimes obtained which float upon water , in consequence of this retention of the lighter hydrocarbons .
In submitting the hydrocarbons to the action of the acids , we have invariably selected fluids which from their boiling-points appeared to be within certain limits homogeneous ; but notwithstanding every possible care in this selection , we have always obtained more than one sulpho-acid and more than one nitro-compound , as the case might be , and we have experienced very considerable difficulties in the separation of the mixed products .
In the case of nitro-compounds , advantage has sometimes been taken of their convertibility by a mixture of sulphuric and nitric acids into diand tri-nitro-compounds , which admitted of fractional crystallization from various media .
We have been thus enabled to isolate the following compounds , the analysis and properties of which place their existence beyond doubt , namely , Nitrobenzol , Dinitrotoluol , Trinitroxylol , Sulphocumolate of barium ; and therefore it is evident that the Burmese naphtha products contain the corresponding hydrocarbons , namely , Benzol ... ... ... C12 H6 Toluol ... ... .
C14 H8 Xylol ... ... ... .
C16 11 Cumol ... ... .
Cp1 H1 But we have found that the foregoing are by no means the only hydrocarbons separated by sulphuric acid andC nitric acid , and we hope to establish the existence of other series containing terms isomneric with , but differing in properties from , benzol and its homologues ; we have , moreover , good reason to suspect the presence of other compounds even less linked with the benzol series .
Action of Reducing JAents on the Nitro-comjpounds .
In order to throw further light on the constitution of the hydrocarbons in Burmese naphtha , removeable by the before-named acids , we have submitted the several nitro-compounds to the action of reducing agents .
As was to be expected , our nitrobenzol yielded an abundant supply of aniline when distilled with acetic acid and iron turnings , thus confirming the existence of benzol beyond all possible doubt .
In a similar manner the presence of toluol was further established by the preparation of nitrotoluol and toluidine .
Bechamp 's method was , however , not equally applicable in all cases , so that Zinin 's original sulphide of ammonium process was resorted to ; by its means we have obtained several new bases , and among them one crystallizing beautifilly in long needles , having the appearance and colour of alizarine .
Some time must however elapse before the great number of new bodies can be fully studied .
Hydrocarbons not acted upon by Sulphlric and , itric Acids .
The hydrocarbons which resist the action of monohydrated sulphuric and nitric acids form , as has been before stated , by far the larger portion of the distillates obtained from Burmese naphtha .
When purified by washing from adhering acid , by fractional distillation , and finally by rectification in a ciurrent of dry hydrogen gas over the liquid alloy of potassium and sodium , they are obtained almost inodorous and perfectly colourless .
Thus purified , they are very fluid , and retain their fluidity even in the intense cold produced by a mixture of solid carbonic acid and ether .
No absolute fixity of boiling-point could be obtained in any of the products ; nevertheless a much greater constancy in this respect was observed than with the hydrocarbons before treatment with strong acids .
The lowest boilingpoint obtained was 50 ?
C. ( 122 ?
F. ) ; the highest , being far beyond the range of the mercurial thermometer , was not ascertained .
The specific heat of the vapour of all this series of hydrocarbons was ascertained to be very small , a fact which we believe accounts in some measure for the difficulties we experienced in the fractional distillations .
For the purpose of analysis , we have contented ourselves with selecting such products as boiled within the same 5 ?
C. ( 9 ?
F. ) of the thermometric scale .
All the analyses tend to prove that the ratio of carbon to hydrogen increases slowly with an increase in the boiling-point , and to negative the not improbable assumption of the carbon and hydrogen being combined in equal equivalents .
The general formula Cn H1-n+ agrees best with our results , and indicates a probability of the Burmese naphtha containing several radicals or their hydrides .
Our endeavours to obtain definite substitution-compounds by means of bromine and chlorine have been attended with only partial success .
Chlorine gas acts slowly in the dark , but more quickly with the aid of diffused daylight ; pentachloride of antimony , on the other hand , acts with so much violence that explosions frequently ensue .
Bromine appears to separate the hydrocarbons into two distinct bodies , a circumstance which throws some doubt upon their simple constitution .
Hydrated sulphuric acid saturated with the anhydrous acid likewise produces a separation of the hydrocarbons , absorbing one portion and leaving the other unacted upon ; anhydrous sulphuric acid , on the other hand , in some cases completely absorbs the whole , sometimes with evolution of sulphurous acid .
The copulated sulphoacids which are produced in these cases will probably enable us to clear up the enigma of the composition of the hydrocarbons ; we think it better therefore not to lay much stress upon the Radical or Hydride hypotheses until further experiment has thrown more light upon the subject .
Nevertheless we may state , that by operating upon a fluid boiling between 90 ?
and 100 ?
C. ( 194 ?
-212 ?
F. ) with chlorine for some months , we at last obtained a cessation of all action , and a chlorine compound resulted , which , when purified and analysed , gave numbers agreeing perfectly with C26 H22 C'I , corresponding to a hydrocarbon , C2 128 , a formula with which the analysis of the original hydrocarbon was perfectly consistent , although its boiling-point pointed rather to a lower formula .
Action of Oxidizing Agents on the IHydrocarbons .
By the action of boiling diluted nitric acid , continued for many months , on the hydrocarbons not acted upon by concentrated sulphuric and nitric acids , oxidation gradually takes place , and a great variety of acids are produced , among which we have isolated succinic acid , and several others belonging to the series Cl , H-_2 O^s Oxalic acid , the lowest term of this series , could not be traced ; there occurs , however , in these products several of the volatile acids of the acetic acid series , but in very small quantities .
The rough distillates obtained from the Burmese naphtha , when treated in the same manner , yield , in addition to the foregoing , several aromatic acids , derivatives of the benzol series and its isomers , differing however from any acids at present known .
Other oxidizing agents have been employed by us , but not with such marked results .

