VIII. .
A Letter from Mr Ralph Thoresby , F. R. S. concerning a Roman Inscription lately found at York , &amp;c. THE Roman Monument lately discovered at York ( which you desire an account of ) was found in digging a Cellar in Coning-street , not far from the Roman Wall and Multangular Tower , that Dr Lister has given so curious and particular a Description of .
This Monument , Dedicated to the Genius , or Tutelar Deity of the Place , is not of that course Rag , that the generality of the Roman Monuments are , but of the finer Gritt , like the Altar at the Lord Fairfax 's House in York : It is 21 inches long , and 11 broad , and is inscribed GENIOLOCIF EL ICITE R. There was a larger Stone found with it , but without any Inscription ; nor is there upon either of them the representation of a Serpent , or a young Visage , by both which the Ancients sometimes described these Dij Topici ; if the Name had been added , it would have gratified the Curiosity of the Neoteric Antiquaris ; but they must yet acquiesce ( for ought I know ) in the old DV I , who is said to be the Tutelar Deity of the City of the Brigantes ; from which Diw , as the Britains called him .
Dewsbury , or Duisburg in this Neighbourhood , seems to have received its name ; a place now chiefly noted for a sort of course Cloath there made , and thence called Duberians .
The Monument is of this form .
The Camdens Brite N. E. p. 708 .
Phil. Trans. GENIO LOCI FELICITER .
The Author of this Votive Monument seems to have had the same Superstitious Veneration for the Genius of York , as those at Rome had for theirs , whose Name they were prohibited to utter , or enquire after ; hence it is upon their Coins the Name of this Deity is never expressed , but in a more general manner by Genius P. R. or Pop .
Rom .
Such a one I have of Constantius , minted at London , as appears by the Exurg LO N. under the Effigies of that Deity , with a Patera in the Right Hand , and Cornucopia in the Left , inscribed GENIOPOPU LI ROMAN I. I rather instance in that of this Emperor ( the Father of Constantine the Great ) because he made York his Imperial Seat , and was here Deified ; the Medal of whose Apotheosis I also have , minted at the same place and inscribed MEMORIAFELI X. which I mention ( tho nothing relating to the Genius ) because of the expression of a noted Antiquary , ` ` That Rome in the height of its greatness , had not a more glorious and gallant show to exhibit , than what this poor piece of Copper would express .
As the Genius of the City of Rome was expressed by G. P. R. so that of the Commonhealth , in a most sordid Flattery , by that of the Emperor , who they pretended to be their Happy Genius .
I have one even of Nero , and not only after his Quinquennium , but the year ~~ ~~ year after he had laid most of the City in Ashes , yet by the express order of the Senate , inscribed GENIO AUGUST I. S. C. Some of the Fathers have therefore justly reproached the Romans , for paying a greater Veneration to the Genii of their Emperors , than to Jupiter their supreme God .
This Custom of Deifying the Genii , and that of assigning Gods for defence of particular Cities , is very ancient , as appears by what the Prophet Jeremiah saith of revolting Judah , According to the number of thy Cities are thy Gods ; after the manner of the Heathen , who , according to Varro , had above * thirty thousand ; and yet notwithstanding this prodigious number , it is evident from their Medals , that several Cities were sometimes assigned to the same Tutelar Deity ; thus the Greeks ( from whom the Romans received this and several other of their Superstitions ) committed both Magnesia and Smyrna to the protection of ~ .
Medals of the former are more common , of the latter more rare .
His Excellency Baron Spanheim has writ a~ most Learned Discourse upon them , which makes me more to value one in my poor Musaeum , which has the Effigies of that Mother of the Gods with her Towered Head , and CMYPN A ; upon the Reverse is a Lyon Passant with CMYPNAI~ N. I have also a large curious Medal of Julius Philippus , that would tempt us to believe that Antioch also was devoted to the same Cybele , for it has round her Head with the Turreted Crown ANTI OK E~NMHTPOKO~~ N. with ~ ( or rather ~ ) E and SC on each side the Head .
I must own my self somewhat at a loss about the latter word , except the Greek and Roman Tongues began then to admit of a sort of Mongril Mixture , so that from MHTEP and Colonus , might proceed MHTPOKO~~N~ N , and so the Antiochians have the Title of the Men of the MotherColony , * Pool 's Synopsio critic .
in loc. Jer .
2 .
28 .
Colony , the ~E which are Greek , the SC in Latin Characters , the former signifying Lustrum Quintum , the other Senatus Consulto , seem to countenance this Conjecture , the Roman S being different from that in ~I~I~~OC and CE~ upon the same Coin .
This Curiosity of the City of Antioch is not so valuable as it was the Metropolis of all ~ , and highly applauded by Ammianus Marcellinus ( who lived within a a hundred years of this time , as it is because here the name of Christians was first taken up , and that St Paul both preached and kept a Synod here~ as ~ tells us , and so another I have of Antoninus Pius , inscribed BEPOIAI~ N , which is more valuable in my Fancy for that passage Acts XVII .
~ .
than if it could be certainly ascribed to the noblest of the four Cities that bore the same Name .

