501 1881 .
] Dr. G. Thin .
On the Trichophyton tonsurans .
II .
" On the Trichophyton tonsurans ( the Fungus of Ringworm ) .
" By George Thin , M.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , 1881.* ( Abstract .
) When hairs affected with the Trichophyton tonsurans are cultivated in cells , the development of the spores on the sides of the hairs can , if it occurs , be observed in situ under the microscope .
When the attempted cultivation takes place on the surface of a fluid in a test-glass , it is also possible , after macei'ation in solutions of potash , to decide whether the spores in the hairs have grown out from the surface of the hair , and to distinguish between a growth of adventitious fungi and the growth of the Trichophyton .
The paper gives an account of experiments made by the use of cells and test-glasses , which were kept at a temperature of between 92 ' and 98 ' F. , but in a few instances at the ordinary room temperature .
The Trichophyton remained sterile in cultivations attempted with a solution of phosphate of soda and tartrate of ammonia , with Cohn 's fluid , milk , carrot infusion , turnip infusion , salt solution ( 075 per cent. ) , egg albumen , egg albumen and potash , and vitreous humour and potash .
The only method by which it was grown was by moistening the hairs with vitreous humour .
When moistened with vitreous humour , the spores on the sides of the hairs placed in cells were seen to grow into a mycelium , and free growth took place when the hairs were floated on the surface of this fluid in test-tubes .
It did not grow in cells when the hairs were immersed in a large drop , nor in test-tubes when the hairs were kept at the bottom of the tube .
The growth observed consisted in a formation of mycelium , which sprouted from the spores in the hairs , and in the formation of spores in the newly-formed mycelium .
The successful cultivations were , with one exception , at the incubator temperature .
In the exceptional instance the fungus grew at room temperature , but more feebly and slowly than at the incubator temperature .
It was shown by experiments in which , glaucum , and other fungi grew around the hairs , whilst the spores of the Trichophyton remained sterile , that the latter is essentially distinct from the common fungi whose spores are present in the atmosphere .
The development of the spores by the only method found successful could not be relied on as certain in any given case .
It was not found * Towards the expenses of this research a grant was made by the British Medical Association on the recommendation of the Scientific Grants Committee of the Association .
VOL. XXXI .
502 Dr. G. Thin .
On Bacterium decalvans .
[ " Mar. 3 , successful in hairs that had been kept for a period of weeks folded in paper , nor in nineteen cultivations attempted with hairs taken from patients under treatment .
The negative value of these latter experiments is diminished by the occasional failure with hairs freshly extracted from untreated cases .
The fact that the spores of the Trichophyton will not .grow when immersed in vitreous humour , whilst they do grow when only moistened by it , explains why inflammatory exudation from the bloodvessels cures ringworm of the scalp .
III .
" On Bacterium decalvans : an Organism associated with the Destruction of the Hair in Alopecia areata .
" By George Thin , M.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The author having in several cases of Alopecia areata found bacteria adherent to the roots of extracted hairs , subjected hairs in six selected cases to processes designed to demonstrate the existence of organisms , should they be present , in the substance of the diseased hairs .
In five out of the six cases an object was observed in the hairs which he believes to be a bacterium .
It was seen as a rounded or elongated spheroid , and was found frequently in pairs , the long diameter of the two spheroids forming a continuous straight line .
Sometimes three were found in line , a delicate rod-shaped sheath enveloping the three .
These bodies were , as was shown by the processes to which the hairs were subjected , neither oily particles nor crystals , and they could be distinguished from the granules always present in hairs .
In all the cases their size and form were the same , and they had the refractive qualities of bacteria .
In hairs which were only slightly affected they were found between the inner root-sheath and the hair-shaft , and in small clusters on the hair-shaft beneath the cuticle of the hair .
In hairs which were much diseased they were found in great numbers inside the cuticle of the hair , in the disintegrated hair substance .
Some hairs were found split into ribbon-like bands not far from the root and the organisms were found on the bands .
They were found only in the part of the hair which is under the surface of the skin , and most abundantly not far from the root .
In seven consecutive cases the disease was at once and definitely arrested by a treatment designed to destroy the vitality of any bacteria which might be present on the surface of the skin , and at the same

