]\gt ; Dr. C. W. on Elcctrical ltesistancr .
Sir K.C.B. , in the RIAN was ered by CIIARLES SIEMENS , F.R.S. , D.C.L. , ' On the Incrcasc of Electrical Ilesistance in Conductors with rise of nperature , and its cation to the lIeasurc of Ordinary and urnacc Tcmpcraturcs also on a simple Method of measuriug Electrical Resistauces is an Abstract .
The first part of this Paper treats of the question of the of increase of resistance in metallic conductors with increase of tcmpel.ature .
The investigations of Arndtson , Dr. Weruer Sielrcls , Dr. Matthiesscn are limited to the range of temperatures between and boiling-points of water , and do not comprisc platinum , which is the most aluable metnl for constructing ) Several series of observations are given on different metals , including platinum , copper , and iron , ing from the freezing-point to Cent. ; an other set of experiments also the observations to 1000o Cent. These results are plnnned on di sholwing a ratio of increase which does not either with the former ) of a uniform progression , or with Dr. 1atthiessen 's formula , ) between the rrow limits of his actual tions , but which conforms itself to parabolic ratio , modified by other coefficicuts , lepresen tiug linenr exansion and an ultimate miniit .
In assuming a dynamical , according to which the electrirnl resistaucc of conductor increases according to the elocity which atoms are moved heat , a parabolic ratio of increfise resistance with incrcase of tcmper tule follow in adding to the coeIiicientsjust nlcntioned , resistance for temperature is expressed by the geucrad formula which is found to $/ gree very closely both with the d , ata low temperatures ] ) plied by Dr. thiesscn , with the author 's expefimental results , nging up to Cent. 1Ie nits , however , that furthcr researches ill be ucccssary to prolc the ] of the pplicability of the law of increase expressed ) this to conductors cspecially when nearing their -point .
In the second part of this it is } } that , in dvnntnge of the circ uIlce thnt the electrical resist of metallic conductor increascs with an incrcase of tempernturc , instrument mov be devised for mcnsuring with gre the temf ) distant or inaccessible , including the interior of , where met or other smclting-operations arc ried on .
Dr. C. W. Siemens on Electrical Resistance .
[ Apr. 27 , In measuring temperatures not exceeding 10 Cent. , the instrument is so arranged that two similar coils are connected by a light cable containing three insulated wires .
One of these coils , " " the thermometer-coil , \ldquo ; being carefully protected against moisture , may be lowered into the sea , ol .
buried in the ground , or fixed at any elevated or inaccessible place whose temperature has to be recorded from time to time ; while the other , or " " comparison-coil , \ldquo ; is plunged into a test-bath , whose temperature is raised or by the addition of hot or cold water , or of refrigerated solutions , until an electrical balance is established between the resistances of the two coils , as indicated by a galvanoscope , or by a differential voltameter , described in the third part of the paper , which nce implies identity of temperature at the two coils .
The temperature of the thereupon measured by means of a delicate mercury thermometer , which at the same time tells the temperature at the distant place .
By another angement the comparison-coil is dispensed with , and the resistance of the thermometer-coil , which is a known quantity at zero tem- parature , is measured by a differential voltameter , which forms the subject of third part of the paper ; and the temperature corresponding to the indications of the instrument is found in a table , prepared for this purpose , in order to save all calculation .
In measuring furnace temperatures the vire constituting the pyrometer is wound upon a small cylinder of porcelain contained in a closed tube of iron or platinum , which is exposed to the heat to be measured .
If the heat does not exceed a full red heat , or , say , Cent. , protected wire may be left permanently in the stove or furnace whose temperature has to be recorded from time to time ; but in measuring temperatures exceeding Cent. , the tube is only exposed during a measured interval of , say , three minutes , to the heat , which time suffices for the thin protecting casing and the tvire immediately exposed to its heated sides to acquire within a determinable limit the temperature to be measured , but is not sufficient to soften the porcelain cylinder upon which the wire is vound .
In this way temperatures exceeding the welding-point of iron , and approaching the -poiut of platinum , can be measured by the same instrument by which slight vaI'iations at ordinary temperatures are told .
A thermometric scale is thus obtained embracing without a break the entire range .
The leading wires between the thermometric coil and the measuring iustrument which under certain circumstances , miles length ) would exercise a considerable influence if this were not eliminated by means of the third leading vire before mentioned , which is common to both branches of the measuring instrument .
Another source of error in the electrical pyrometer wouId arise through the porccl upon the wire is wound becoming conductive ery elevated temperatures ; but it is that the error through this sourcc is not of serious import . .
Berthelot on Chemical Combination .
445 The third part of the paper is descriptive of an instrument for measuring electrical resistance without the aid of a magnetic needle or of resistance scales .
It eonsisCs of two voltameter tubes fixed upon graduated scales , which are so connected that the current of a battery is divided between them , lvith one branch including a known ttld permanent resistance , and the other the unknown resistance to be measured .
The resistance and pola , and battery to both circuits , these nnstable elements are elimioated by balancing them from the circulation ; ftnd an expression is found for the unknown resistance X in terms of the known resistances and of the voItameter , ) the conuectiug wires , and of the volumcs and of gases evolved in au arbitrary space time within the tubes , .
:\mdash ; . . . . .
( 1 ) Changes of atmospheric pressure affect both sides equadly , and do not therefore influence the results ; but a at the atmospheric pressure is obtained at both sides by liCtle supply-rescrvoir with diluto acid to the level indicated in the tube .
The upper ends of he- voltameter tubes itre closed by small levers provided cushions of Indin-rnbber ; but after each observation theselevers are raised , and the supply-rescrvoil.s moved so as to cause the escapc of the gascs until theliquidwithin the tubes is up to tho zero-line of the scale , when the instrument is eady for another observation .
A series of mea- ements are given of resistances from 1 to 10,000 units , showing that the results within one-half per cent. with the independent measurements obtained of the same resistances by the Wheatstone method .
The advantages claimed for the proposed instrument are , that it is not influenced by magnetic disturbances or the ship 's motion if used at sea , that it can be used by persons not with ical t , and it is of simple construction .
The ions I. ' On the of ressure and Voluntc } ) roduced by Combination By by Dr. .
Rcceived pril .
, 1871 .
1 .
singular question arisen in the study of the gascous combinations , .
can the pressure be diminisl ) in of tion , at moment it is accomplished , at constant , without loss of heat , so that tho phenomenon of plosion c the cxcess of cric 1essure u the inner ] ) lessure of the systcm , instead of coming from the verse cxccss of the inner prcssurc ?
The discussion of this question , howevcr special it appears at first sight , leads to general notions concerning chemical combination .

