]\gt ; .
W. R Browne .
Rcsistance in ohms Descriptiou of glass vesscl . .
centim. Bohemian tubing . . . . . . . .
beaker . . . .
, . . . .
, , . . . .
ence flask . . . . . . .
rench , , . . . . . . .
Japanese globe . . . . . . . . . .
Test-tube . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
* . . . . . . . . . . .
* . . . . . . . . . . .
* . . . . . . . . . . .
* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
* . . . . . . . . . . .
The specimens marked ( $ were of Japanese manufacture ; the four being potash lime glass , and the last soda hme glass .
The othq test-tubes were supplied from England , and were probably Germab white glass .
The next table contains a similar comparison for a few specimens of flint glass .
The columns have the same meaning as in the table .
of toughened glass . . . . .
2670 Piece of tubing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2753 Japanese globe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2840 Cylindrical cup with hemispherical base of arsemcenamel glass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3070 A Thomson 's quadrant electrometer jar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
" " Ou the Causes of Glacier-Motion.\ldquo ; By WALTER R. BROWNE , M. Inst. C.E. , late cllow r. Coll. , Cambridge .
Com- municated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received June 1 .
Read June 15 , 1882 .
The quostion of the causes which produce the movement of which was at one time so eagerly discussed , would appear to have umbered for the last ten years .
This cannot be said to arise from On th , Causes of Gtacier-Motion .
fact that a perfectly satisfactory t , heory has been developed , and recognised as such by all inquirers .
The ambiguous allusion to the subject in Sir address to the British Association is an evidence thab such certainty has not been atbained .
It is , indeed , generally supposed that the fact of ffie mcltingpoint of ice being lowered by pressure is at the root of the patter ; but a full explanation of t , he of this pressure in the ' , raSe of glaciers , and of the mechanical features of the problcm , has yet be given .
I may : therefore , be pardoned if I draw attention to a ' solution , proposed not by mysel but by one of the greatest glish mechanicians .
My apology for doing so is that I approach the question as an engineer , not as a physicist ; and that it is its / essence , as will be shown immediately , a mechanical rather a .
problem .
The following are leading facts of glacier-motion which must be : accounted for by any valid theol.y on the subject:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The phenomena of the movement of a lacier are simply those a solid body in a state of flow .
( 2 .
) The present glaciers of Switzerland or Norway , which are the only ones which have been Cl'itically examined , are mere s.hrunken , fragments of the g.laciers of the Great lce Age .
To take one lnstance , 1 the present glacier of the Rhone is about 6 miles and perhaps :500 feet deep ; but the old glacier of the Rhone , which abutted : the Jura , was miles long and must have been to 3,000 feet deep .
The movement of such glaciers as this must also bc accounted for in any theory .
The glaciers of the present day are not confined to the temperate region ; they are found in much larger numbers and of mnch greater size in the Arctic regions .
( 4 .
) Both in the temperate and in the Arctic .
move in winter as well as in summer , and by night as well as by day .
That a glacier is in state of iIow was first by Forbes , and has since been confirmed by the measurements of Tyndall and others .
Whilst the whole mass moves downwards , the top moves faster than the bottom and the sides than the middle ; the upper layers must therefore be continually shearing over the lower , and medial over the lateral .
A glacier , being body in a state of flow , must move under the influence of forces powerful enollgh to overcome its resistance , and so oduce this condition .
The general phenomena of the motion of a glacier are exactly reproduced when a body moves through a channel under the of its own weight .
We have , therefore , to enquire whether the shearing of is sufficiently low to enable us to regard a glacier as a viscous mass .
The only experiments known to me on the resistance of the shearing force due to gravity on any square foot of a plane making an angle with the vertical .
This shearing force is given by\mdash ; This expression is a maximum when , and its value is then\mdash ; What is the greatest height at which a vertical cliff of ice will stand I am not able to state this precisely , but it is very considerable .
Mr. Whymper mentions crevasses in South America 300 feet deep .
Cliffs of fully that height have been seen standing out of wate1 in the case of icebergs , and as so small a part of an iceberg projecbs above water , these cliffs probably extend below to a considerat ) depth .
Taking , however , only 300 feet for the value of , or for the maximum height of an ice ciiff , this would give about 80 lbs. per square inch as the lowest shearing force upon a ] of ice which would cause it to assume the condition of flow .
Let us now suppose a glacier of tbickness , lying upon a slope whose inclination to the horizontal is : then the force per square foot , tending to shear the ice at its junction with the slope , is clearJy Supposing to equal , and that the shearing resistance is .
per square inch , we get about 290 .
Hence we may say that a gacier lying on a slope of 1 in 4 will not move at all under its own weight , unless it be feet thick , and that if it be more than this , the upper 300 feet will move as one solid mass , the part below alotle representing the conditions of flow .
It is needless to say that there are hundreds of glaciers which are On the Causes of Glacier-Motion .
211 than 300 feet thick , and which at no part of .
course have a slope anythiIlg approaching 1 in 4 .
We have now to show that the theories generally propounded for glacier action are all of them negatived by some of the foregoing con , idertttions .
These theories may be stated as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The glacier simply slides over its bed as a solid body .
This is negatived by the fact that some parts move faster than others .
I ( 2 .
) The glacier flows under the action of its own weight , exactly a viscous body flows .
This is the theory of Forbes .
It is disby the facts given above , which show that even on a slope of [ 1 in 4 a glacier would not flow unless it was at least 300 feet thick .
( 8 .
) The glacier moves by the crushing of its base .
This has been disproved by Moseley 's experiments , which showed that the crushing resistance of ice was considerably higher than the shearing resistance .
( 4 .
) The glacier moves by the melting of its base .
This is the theory of Hopkins .
He placed a block of ice at F. on a slab at a small angle , and found that it slowly descended as it melted .
On this view the bottom of the glacier must always be in a melting state .
But glaeiers are of all sizes and thicknesses , and they move in winter as well as summer .
Bessels Die Amerikanische Nordpol Expedition p. 398 ) measured the motion of an Arctic glacier ( not apparently very { hick ) , in the month of April , which is just when the winter cold would have sunk deepest , and found it considerable .
Again in the ' ' Zeitschrift des deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft vol. 33 , 1 ) .
is an of measurements of a Greenland glacier , both in winter and summer , which show that the motion in winter is only 20 per cent. less than in summer .
It has been suggested to me that the interior heat of the earth may be sufficient to keep the bottom of the ice from freezing ; but this cannot apply near the sides , where the ice is shallow , and the freezing of a very small strip on each side wo uld be sufficient to keep the whole mass from descending .
Moreover , this cause would apply to masses of snow as much as to ice .
But it is known that masses of snow , though lying on steep slopes , do not descend in this way , even in summer , but melt away where they lie .
( 5 .
) According to the theories of Tyndall , Croll , and others , the glacier moves not in the form of ice , but of water .
These theol'ies are based on the known fact that the freezing point of ice is lowered by pressure .
Hence it is supposed that certain parts of a glacier are continually being exposed to so much pressure that they melt .
The water escapes downward , and the pressure being relieved , it freezes again .
The continuity of the glacier is further kept up by the process of regelatio1l , according to which two pieces of ice if placed in contact , form into one solid mass .
The advocates of this heory hardly seem to consider how mall the lowering of the freezing point is for any ordinary pressur considered as a solid body , obeying the ordinary laws of expansion and contraction under differences of temperature .
This it is known to do , the coefficient of linear expansion , for 1o F. , being nobher evidence against pressure from behind as a cause of motion is furnished by the very small size of many glaciers .
Some of these , lotably those of the class dled ciers remanies are only a fcw hundred yards long , and cannot be many feet deep .
3 , ( Moseley , " " Phil. Mag nuary , is very When a mass of ice , such as a glacler , suffers a rlse in temperature , , ther through conduction or radiation , it will expand ; this expansion place mainly in the direction where movement is easiest , hat is , down the valley .
If from any canse the temperature falls , glacier will again contract ; but since the expansion is assisted by ravity whilst the contraction is opposed by it , the latter will be somehat less in amount than the former , and when the ice has returued its orlglnal temperature its centre of gravity will have moved a , small distance down the valley .
By such alternate expansions contractions the glacier moves gradually from the top to the ottom of its course .
That variations temperature do take place in a glacier cannot , whatever be the condition in which it lies .
This granted , fact that it should move in the way described appears to me more surprising than that the sheets of lead on which Canon Moseley made his well-known experiments did so move ; and that the motion thus produced is of the character which answers to all the facts of the case , so far as they are at present known , can , I believe , be established .
The controversy.occasioned by Canon Moseley 's articIes unfortunately terminated by his illness and death , before the matter had been fully cleared up .
The main objections to his theory were two .
The first was that a glacier is not one continuous body ( as assumed by Canon Moseley in his mathematical investigation ) , but is oken up into many parts by crevasses .
But in the first place , the assumption above mentioned is mercly one of convenience , and not in the least necessary to the theory .
A detached piece of ice would move in the same way as a glacier , or as the sheet of lead did in Canon Moseley 's experiments .
Secondly , if a glacier is where divided in its whole thickness by a Cl.evasse , this is absolutely fatal to the gravitation theories , since there can be no pressure between the portions above and below this division .
The only possible explanation of crevasses , on these theories , is that they are due to the glacier bendin over a convex part of its bed .
In that case the bottom half will be in compression , and only the top half in tension , so that the crevasse cannot possibly extend more than half through the The second objection was that the conductivity of ice is low ; hence the effect of the heat would be confined to the layers near the surface , and could not account for the motion of the glacier as a whole .
This objection does not seem to be irmed by careful reflection upon the way in which such forces act .
Let us suppose a glacier 100 fect deep , of which each successive foot expands and contracts alike but adheres with a definite shearing resistance to the layers above and On the present theory the motion at any point on the surface of a glacier will be not continuous , but alternately downwards and upwards , and the nett distance by which it has descended , say , in a day , will be a mere fraction of the total distance through which it has moved in that period .
If so , this alternate motion ought to have been noticed in the various observations which have been made upon glaciers , and this does not appea ) .
to have been the case .
But , in reply to this , it may be remarked that most of the observations have only given the nett movement of points on the glacier during intervals of a day or more , and therefore would not show the oscillations .
Again , such observations have always been at points near tho end of a glacier .
Now the variations in temperature of a glacier will be very different at different parts , and the motion of the end of the glacier will , to a gl.eat extent , sbow the average result of these different advances and retreats in different parts of the higher regions .
This average result will , of course , be a steady progression down the valley , and the oscillatory movement at the end of the on the gravitation theory .
It is well known that glaciers , when they emerge from a narrow gorge into a comparatively wide valley , spread out into a fan-shape .
Rhone glacier is a well-known instance .
A still better one is a glacier in Norway , mentioned by Professor Sexa , which spreads to five or six times its previous width .
Now the eifect of gravity , acting on a mass as a whole , is to carry it in one single direction , that of ths steepest slope .
The only way in which gravity can produce such a spreading out is by the parts of the glacier shearing over ther in the manner of a viscous solid .
But the phenomena of ice liffs , as mentioned above , show that ice does not spread from this cause , so that the fact seems impossible to explain by gravitation alone .
the heat theory it is , of course , perfectly easy : the expansion and rontraction will take place in all directions where there is freedom to move .
Connected with this phenomenon is that of the longitudinal ( , crevasses seen near the edges of glaciers , and particularly where they pread out in the manner just described .
Now on the gravitation Itheory , as remarked above , the only possible explanation of a crevasse is that the ice is bending over a convex surface , and that its upper part is thus placed in a state of tension , under which it breaks .
Since , on gravitation theory , every part of a glacier is exposed to a severe pressure from behind , this explanation does not fit very well even for ltransverse crevasses ; but to longitudinal crevasses it is clearly inapplicable , since bottom of a valley is seldom or never convex in the ection of its width .
On the heat theory the explanation is simple .
We may supposs the heat energy communicated per are foot of surface to be about the same , whether near the middle o edge a glacier .
This energy is expended in producing an expansion the whole thickness of the glacier , as described above .
{ Hence the smaller this thickness , the greater will be the amount of expansion , and the greater therefore the nett motion which , results .
Hence the thinner parts of a glacier will always be tending to tear themselves off from the thicker , and hus longitudinal crevasses will frequently be found .
( 3 .
) The striae which are so marked a ature of glacier-worn rocks become more easily explained on this theory .
I have seen such striae , V0L .
XXX1Y .
head of one of the fiords , and slept a couple of nights at an house .
A glacier about half a mile distant was then in full activity , the movement of which might , I believe , have been as visible to the eye as it certainly was audible to the ear .
' ' My own idea is that Arctic glaciers must have a motion more or less during the whole yeal , summer and winter .
I believe the alternations of heat and cold\mdash ; or , I should rather say , of \mdash ; would of itself cause motion , especially near the upper snrface .
" " We kuow that ice 2 or 3 feet or more thick , contracts very considerably in a few hours by a sudden fall of fifteen or twenty degrees of temperature .
I have found cracks in Lake Winnipeg 3 or 4 feet wide , formed by this cause during a single night , almost stopping onr sledge journey .
This gap soon freezes up .
Then the weather gets milder , the ice expands , and with the new additional formation is too large for the lake , and is forced up into ridges .
This process goes on at every ' cold snap , ' with milder weather .
Now supposing a glacier for 10 or more feet of its depth contracts by cold , lake ice is known to do , it will get a series of cracks probably in its longest axis , say from inland seaward ; the first snow-drift will fiu up these cracks or some of them , and this filling up will to some extent perform the same office as the freezing of the cracks in the lakes .
The longitudinal extent of the glacier will be increased .
A snow-storm always brings milder weather , which would expand the glacier , but as this expansion would naturally tend downhill , inste nstead * ' ' Cold \ldquo ; an American term meaning a rather sudden crease of cold .
On Impact with a Surface .
217 up , the whole motion would be downwards .
But even if the cracks I mention did not take place , the contraction by cold would pull the downhill , not up , whilst the expansion by increase of ture would tend to push the glacier downhill , so that these opposite actions would produce similar effects in moving the glacier , or such part of it could be acted upon by external temperature , downwards .
" " I may also add that when a crack , however slight , is formed by contraction , the cold is admitted into the body of the glacier , and increases the contracting power or influences On Impact with a Liquid Surface By A. M. WORTHINGTON , M.A. Communicated by Professor OSBORNE REYNOLDS , F.R. .
Received January 27 .
Read February 16 , 1882 .
[ This paper is made up of the abstract already printed in the " " Proceedings\ldquo ; \mdash ; here reprinted for the convenience of the reader\mdash ; and a selection of the figures sent in by the author , together with a description of them extracted from the original paper .
] The apparatus previously used* by the author for following the progress of the splash of liquid drops on a solid plate has been improved .
The main principle of the method by which successive stages are isolated and rendered visible remains the same , instantaneous ation at any desired stage by means of the rimary spark of an induction coil ; but the timing of the illumination is now effected by a timing-sphere let fall simultaneously with the solid or liquid sphere whose impact is to be observed .
The timing- sphere strikes a plate whose height can be adjusted , and thereby starts the mechanical action which results in the spark .
The time interval between successive stages of the disturbance can be measured to within a few thousandths of a second .
The significant portion of the whole series of changes in most of the splashes observed is comprised within about one-third of a secon The impact of both solid and liquid spheres has been studied , and is illustrated by several series of drawings which accompany the paper .
Milk drops falling into water were found to produce a similar disturbance to that from the impact of similar water drops , were used for the sake of rruishing the original liquid of the drop from that into which it fell .
With a drop about 5 millims. in diameter , falling from less than 1 metre , an annular rim is raised at the first moment of impact , bounding a hollow lvhich is afterwards characterised by regularly disposed radia , ribs and arms , at the * ' ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 25 , pp. 261 , 498 .

