Regeneration in Gunda ulvse .
355* 5 .
The working mechanism of the latter is clearly indicated by remarkable ' phenomena of the storage and subsequent disappearance of starch in the ' andrcecial region ; while similar phenomena of starch storage and depletion in the gyncecial region illustrate the progression from a simple " drop-mechanism " to a copious exudation of sugar and the adaptation of the structure to entomophily .
6 .
The nectary region of the ovule is retained by the gyncecium of the* sterile flower for the same function , and vascular bundles supplying fluid for this purpose are not necessarily vestigial .
Entomophily is thus probably antecedent to dicliny .
The Influence of the Position of the Cut upon Regeneration in Gunda ulvse .
By Dorothy Jordan Lloyd , B.Sc. , Bathurst Student of Newnham College , , Cambridge .
( Communicated by J. Stanley Gardiner , F.R.S. Received January 14 , \#151 ; Read February 19 , 1914 .
) I. Introduction .
In 1899 Hallez ( 4 ) made the generalisation that the most important difference between the regeneration in Triclad and Polyclad Planarians was to be found in the fact that fragments of the former could regenerate in the absence Of the central nervous system , whilst in the latter some portion of the cerebral ganglia must be present in order for regeneration to take place .
Child ( I ) has confirmed the fact that the presence of cerebral ganglia , or at least intact nerve roots , is necessary for regeneration of the anterior end and sense organs of Polyclads .
The experimental work by the same and other authors has also established that , among Triclads , the genus is able to regenerate completely in the absence of cerebral ganglia .
The following notes , however , show that in another Triclad genus , namely , Gunda , anterior regeneration is , as in Polyclads , dependent on the presence of the central nervous system .
The experiments described below were carried out in the Plymouth Laboratory of the Marine Biological Association during the spring of 1913 .
I am greatly indebted to the director and staff of the laboratory for constant kindness during the course of my work at Plymouth .
I also stand under 356 Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of the Position of the obligations to the Royal Society , the Zoological Society , and the University of Cambridge for the use of their tables at the Plymouth Laboratory .
II .
Material .
The experiments were performed on members of the species ulvce .
G. uhce is a small Triclad Planarian belonging , with other marine planaria , to the order Maricola , and to the family Gundidse ( Procerodidse ) .
Planaria , the genus on which most of the work on Triclads has been done , is a freshwater form ( order Paludicola ) .
The structure of G. ulvce is quite typical of all Triclads and has been described by Wendt ( 8 ) and Iijima ( 5 ) .
It contains the usual trifid gut , which opens at the point where the three branches meet into a protrusible pharynx .
The mouth is situated near the hind end , rather more than three-fourths down the length of the body .
The accessory genital organs lie behind the mouth .
The cerebral ganglia are about one-fifth the body length from the anterior end .
Two nerve cords run backwards from the ganglia , joining in the tail to form a complete ring .
The two eyes lie in front of the ganglia , and at the front of the head are the so-called auricular processes , two in number .
III .
Experiments .
A. Posterior Regeneration .
G. ulvce will regenerate tails completely either in the presence or absence of the cerebral ganglia .
Text-fig .
I , A , shows the levels at which cuts were made .
Fragments taken for posterior regeneration were head-pieces ADD , AEE , AFF ; middle pieces , BBFF and DDFF .
Figs. 1-3 show the progress of tail regeneration in a worm cut through the middle of the pharynx region ( AFF ) .
For worms cut off in front of the pharynx ( AEE , I , 4 ) , it is essentially similar , except that the newly regulated worm is proportionally smaller .
The figures , which are drawn to scale , show quite clearly that the new tail is produced by a differentiation of the old tissue .
The next group of text-figures shows the regulation of fragments taken from the middle of the worm .
The characteristic difference in behaviour between the pieces with and without cerebral ganglia ( figs. 5-7 and 8-10 respectively ) is quite apparent .
The former show regeneration taking place at both ends of the worm , finally resulting in complete restoration of both head and tail .
The formation of tissue at the head end is seen to check the rate of growth at the tail end .
In fragments without ganglia ( figs. 8-10 ) no head is regenerated and restoration of the tail proceeds as rapidly as in the head-pieces ( with ganglia ) described first .
Restoration of posterior parts Cut upon Regeneration in Gunda ulvse .
takes place^at any aboral surface from DD backwards and is independent of the presence of the ganglia .
Fragment ABB , or fragments equally small taken from any part of the body , die without any regeneration .
1 .
Fragment AFF , 14 days ; 2 .
Ditto , 28 days ; 3 .
Ditto , 56 days .
4 .
Fragment AEE , 32 days .
5 .
Fragment BBFF , 14 days ; 6 .
Ditto , 28 days ; 7 .
Ditto , 56 days .
8 .
Fragment DDFF , 14 days ; 9 .
Ditto , 28 days ; 10 .
Ditto , 56 days .
A. Diagram of points of section .
B. Lateral Regeneration .
Animals bisected down the median line ( text-fig .
II ) regenerate completely .
The course of regeneration is shown in figs. 1-3 .
In animals beheaded and then bisected down the middle line ( fragment PD ) , regeneration occurs along the edge of the lateral wound , but there is no replacement of the anterior end ( text-fig .
II , 8-11 ) unless parts of the 358 Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of the Position of the A 1 .
Fragment AP , 20 days ; 2 .
Ditto , 27 days ; 3 .
Ditto , 41 days .
4 .
Diagram of points of section .
5 .
Fragment CP , 20 days ; 6 .
Ditto , 41 days ; 7 .
Ditto , 62 days .
8 .
Fragment DP , 20 days ; 9 .
Ditto , 32 days ; 10 .
Ditto , 41 and 62 days .
11 .
Same , side view .
cerebral ganglia are left in the fragment .
In this case there is some regeneration of tissue at the anterior end , but the heads produced are defective ( text-fig .
II , 5-7 ) .
Cut upon Regeneration in Gunda ulvse .
C , Anterior Regeneration .
Anterior regeneration in animals cut anteriorly to the cerebral ganglia is quite complete ( text-fig .
Ill , 1-3 ) .
In cases , however , where the cut takes away more than about one-third of the ganglia , it is only partial .
Forms with either two eyes or one are produced , the auricles in the latter case being fused ( figs. 4 and 5 ) .
In animals cut behind the cerebral ganglia 1 .
Fragment BBP , 14 days ; 2 .
Ditto , 28 days ; 3 .
Ditto , 41 days .
4 .
Fragment CCP , 41 and 62 days .
5 .
Fragment CCP , 41 and 62 days .
6 .
Fragment DDP , 41 and 62 days .
no head formation ever occurs .
These posterior pieces showed some change of form , as forward growth caused them to become helmet shaped ( fig. 6 ) .
After two months these pieces still remained without any attempt at regeneration of the head .
A number of headless pieces and defective heads were sectioned for examination of the nervous system , and the sections are shown .
360 Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of the Position of the It is obvious that in cases of incomplete regulation the central nervous system is incomplete in corresponding extent .
D. Heterom orphic Forms .
The culture which produced these forms was one of very short head-pieces where the cut had passed across the anterior part of the brain .
The tail-pieces corresponding to these head-pieces also produced new heads .
The heteromorphic forms 20 days after section are shown in fig. IV .
In cases where the cut passed obliquely the new heads formed on the anterior end of the cut .
This is shown in fig. IV ( 2 ) .
Fig. IY .
1 and 2 .
Fragment ACC , 20 day\amp ; A longitudinal section through a heteromorphic form is shown in fig. IX .
The rounded shape of the section is due to the contraction that takes place when the animals are dropped into the fixing fluid .
It can be seen in the section that about one-third of the complete brain is present .
Two well-marked nerves run to the new eyes , and the portion of regenerated gut in the new head shows a beginning of the formation of the three branches characteristic of the front end of the gut of The gut is full of a dark brown mass of broken-down tissue , and can be seen clearly in the whole specimens .
E. Regeneration of Nervous System .
In planarians , i.e. , in P. torva ( Flexner ( 3 ) and Schultz ( 7 ) ) and Planaria ( Dendroccelum ) lactea ( Schultz ( 7 ) ) the new nervous system arises by cells from the parenchyma crowding round the cut ends of the nerve cords and pushing up among the old nerve fibres , aided possibly by some outgrowth of the old fibres .
This is also the method by which G. ulvce repairs injuries to the nervous system .
The nerve cords of G. ulvce always show regeneration after a cut , and in every case of tail-formation the new nerve fibres can be found reaching to the end of the newly formed tail at every stage of its growth , and within a few days of the cut joining at the hind end to form the posterior commissure .
Cut upon Regeneration in Gunda ulvse .
After a longitudinal bisection the brain will easily regenerate the removed naif , and the circuit of the nervous system is restored , often before the long wound has healed over .
Transverse sections across the ganglia , however , are not followed by regeneration of the ganglia if more than about one-third of the brain is taken away .
The nervous system forms a complete ring , and in every case , where this ring is broken , regeneration of the nerve cords takes place sufficiently to restore the circuit , though the cerebral ganglia may or may not be regenerated .
Text-fig .
V shows an animal ( text-fig .
Ill , 3 ) where the cut passed across the front of the ganglia , which were subsequently completely restored .
* Text-VIII ( text-fig .
IIT , 6 ) shows an animal in which the cut removed both ganglia .
In such conditions the nerve cords grow forward and fuse , but no ganglia are regenerated , and the animals remain headless .
Text-figs .
VI and VII show two worms ( text-fig .
Ill , 4 and 5 respectively ) where the cut has damaged both ganglia and where there is correspondingly defective restoration of the head .
Fig. V. Horizontal Longitudinal Section through Complete Regenerated Head , 41 days ( text-fig .
Ill , 3 ) .
ga.t ganglion ; n.c. , nerve cord ; op.n .
, optic nerve .
Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of the Position of the IFio .
YI.\#151 ; Section through Incomplete Regenerated Head , with two eyes , 62 days ( text-fig .
Ill , 4 ) .
ex.c .
, excretory canal ; ga .
, ganglion ; g. , gut ; n.c. , nerve cord ; optic nerve .
i'lo .
VII.\#151 ; Section through Incomplete Regenerated Head , with one eye , 64 days ( text-fig .
Ill , 5 ) .
e. , eye ; g. , gut ; ga .
, ganglion ; op.n .
, optic nerve .
Cut upon Regeneration in Gunda ulvae .
eoc.c .
Fig. VIII.\#151 ; Section through Headless Form , 62 days ( text-fig .
Ill , 6 ) .
ex.c .
, excretory canals ; g. , gut ; n.c. , nerve cords ; pa.c .
, parenchyma cells ; p.c. , pigment cells .
Fig. IX.\#151 ; Section through Heteromorphic Head , 20 days ( text-fig .
IV , 8 ) .
e. , eye ; g. , gut ; ga .
, ganglion : op.n .
, optic nerve ; pa.c .
, parenchyma cells .
IV .
Discussion .
As was mentioned earlier in the paper , Child ( 1 ) has already shown that the presence of at least half the cerebral ganglia is necessary for complete regeneration in Leptoplana .
The removal of more than half VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; B. 2 E Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of the Position of the the ganglia causes the production of defective heads .
When ganglia and nerve roots are completely removed head-formation is entirely inhibited .
The behaviour of Planaria dorotocephala was found by Child ( 2 ) to be in direct contrast to this .
Planaria under normal conditions regenerates the anterior end completely from any point of section .
It is only when regeneration is suppressed by the addition of anaesthetics or potassium cyanide that defective heads are produced essentially similar to those obtained in Leptoplana and i.e. , heads with three to four eyes , or with a single median eye and with the auricles approximated or even fused .
With increasing defect of the external appearance Child has shown that there is increasing defect in the regeneration of the ganglia , e.g. , in teratomorphic ( Child ) heads , with single median eye and fused auricles the cephalic ganglia are partially or completely fused ; in pieces in which there is no head-regeneration there is similarly no regeneration of the cephalic ganglia .
In fact so closely does the parallel run that it seems almost justifiable to assume that in Planaria , and Gunda head-regeneration is dependent on the presence of the central nervous system , and that the difference between them is found in the greater power of regeneration possessed by the central nervous system of Planaria .
Planaria has another characteristic in which it contrasts strongly with the two other genera , and that is in its power of asexual reproduction .
It seems quite likely that asexual reproduction and the high capacity for head-formation are both determined by the power of growth and regeneration of the central nervous system .
In G. ulvce the condition is found that the nerve cords can exhibit restoration by backward and forward growth after a cut made at any part of their length , quite independently of the ganglia .
The ganglia themselves appear incapable of restoring lost parts , unless one complete ganglion is present , and the restoration of complete heads only occurs if the ganglia are restored .
Considering the inability of animals with badly damaged central nervous system to regenerate heads , the production of heteromorphic heads on short anterior pieces is of great interest .
These pieces contain only about one-third of the cerebral ganglia , yet the heads which they regenerate at the posterior end are complete with trifid gut , eyes and auricular processes .
It will be remembered that large posterior pieces with defective cerebral ganglia failed to regenerate heads on the oral pole .
In Planaria maculata Morgan has obtained heteromorphic heads at any point of section , provided that the fragments which he took were sufficiently short .
From these considerations it seems possible that the mechanism for the Cut upon Regeneration in Gunda ulvse .
restoration of the tail belongs to the body as a whole , while that for restoring the head is an entirely independent one , which may or may not be localised in some part of the body , notably the anterior end .
Probably head-formation is dependent on the presence of some specific substance which in Leptoplana and Gunda is localised in the anterior end , and in Planaria is found throughout the length of the body .
It would be of great interest and possibly of great importance if a comparison of the relative number of ganglia found in the nerve trunks could be made in these three genera , as it might produce some evidence for or against the suggestion that the head-forming substances may be localised in the central nervous system .
At present Morgan 's ( 6 ) statement that pieces of Planaria maculata entirely devoid of nervous system are capable of complete regulation rather bears against the idea that the nervous system is of such great importance in regeneration .
The facts presented in this paper do not justify a full discussion of Child 's theory of the axial gradient ; all that need he said is that to make this work coincide with his hypothesis the axial gradient of must be assumed to slope very steeply at the anterior end .
Probably the idea that there is a sudden change in rate of chemical actions in G. ulvce as one passes backwards from the anterior end is not antithetic to the idea of the localisation of some specific enzyme in the front of the body .
Finally it may be noted that this work has disproved the suggestion made by Hallez ( 4 ) that Triclads and Polyclads each have their own method of regeneration , for G. ulvce , which is a marine Triclad , behaves like the Polyclads in its method of the restoration of the head .
Summary .
1 .
Regeneration of posterior parts is independent of the presence of the cerebral ganglia .
2 .
Lateral regeneration behind the level of the ganglia is independent of their presence .
In front of the level of the ganglia at least one complete ganglion must be present for regulation to occur .
3 .
Anterior regeneration only occurs if the piece contains about two-thirds of both ganglia .
4 .
Heteromorphic heads are formed by short head-pieces where the cut has passed through the ganglia .
5 .
G. ulvce differs from most other Triclads and corresponds to Polyclads in its mode of regeneration .
2 e 2 S66 Mr. S. B. Schryver .
Investigations dealing with the BIBLIOGRAPHY .
1 .
Child , C. M. , " Studies in Regulation .
V and VI.\#151 ; The Relation between the Central Nervous System and Regeneration in Leptoplana , " ' Journ. of Exp. Zool. , ' 1 ( 1904 ) .
2 .
Child , C. M. , " Certain Dynamic Factors in Experimental Reproduction and their Significance for the Problems of Reproduction and Development , " 'Arch .
f. Ent .
Mech. , ' vol. 35 , p. 598 ( 1913 ) .
3 .
Flexner , Simon , " Regeneration of the Nervous System of Planaria torva , " 'Journ .
Morph .
, ' vol. 14 , p. 337 ( 1898 ) .
4 .
Hallez , " Regeneration compares chez les Polyclades et les Triclades , " 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 28 , sess .
1 , p. 270 ( 1899 ) .
5 .
Iijima , " Untersuchungen fiber den Bau und die Entwicklungsgeschichte der Sfisswasser Dendrocoelen ( Tricladen ) , " 'Zeitschr .
f. wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 40 , p. 359 ( 1884 ) .
6 .
Morgan , T. H. , " The Control of Heteromorphosis in Planaria maculata " ' Arch. f. Entw .
Mech. , ' vol. 17 ( 1904 ) .
7 .
Schultz , E. , " Aus dem Gebiete der Regeneration bei Turbellarien , " ' Zeitschr .
f. wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 72 , p. 1 ( 1902 ) .
8 .
Wendt , A. , " liber den Bau von Qunda , " ' Arch. f. Naturgesch .
, ' vol. 1 , p. 54 ( 1888 ) .
Investigations dealing with the Phenomena of " Formations .
Part II.\#151 ; The Formation of a Gel from Cholate Solutions having Many Properties analogous to those of Cell .
By S. B. Schryver .
( Communicated by Prof. V. H. Blackman , F.R.S. Received January 22 , \#151 ; Read February 19 , 1914 .
) In the first communication under the above title , * attention was called to the fact that solutions of sodium cholate , on warming in the presence of calcium salts , set to a gel , which is not reversible on cooling .
It has since been found that calcium salts can be replaced by other salts , such as sodium chloride , magnesium chloride , ammonium sulphate and potassium fluoride , and the clot formation is not therefore due to double decomposition between calcium salts and sodium cholate .
The concentrations of sodium , potassium , and magnesium salts necessary to produce the " clot " are , however , much higher than that of calcium chloride , which even in the concentration of N/ 40 can cause 1-per-cent , sodium cholate to set to a solid gel in about a quarter of an hour at 50 .
Sodium and magnesium chlorides produce clot formation at 50 ' , when their * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 86 , p. 460 ( 1913 ) ,

