Intermittent Vision .
found , they are not thermoluminescent , nor can they be made so by exposure to radium .
Moreover they are not decolorised by moderate heating .
As already explained , there is reason to believe that hyacinths are formed from these opaque zircons by the action of a bath of molten basalt .
It was attempted , and with partial success , to imitate this experimentally .
Basalt was kept melted in a platinum crucible over a gas furnace , and some opaque zircons immersed in it for 24 hours .
After this they were extracted , and found to be quite white , though not transparent .
On exposure to radium they now took on the redder colour of hyacinths and became , like them thermoluminescent .
The only outstanding point is the transparency of natural hyacinths .
This may result in some way from the gently increasing , very prolonged action of the molten basalt under geological conditions , which cannot be artificially imitated .
Intermittent Vision .
By A. Mallock , F.R.S. ( Received November 11 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1913 .
) It is a matter of fairly common observation that the spokes of the wheels of passing motor cars often appear momentarily stationary , and sometimes even seem to be turning in the direction opposite to their actual motion .
It was pointed out to me by the Hon. T. F. Fremantle that these appearances , which last only for a small fraction of a second , coincide with the steps of the observer , and are only noticeable when the speed of the vehicle lies between certain limits .
On the one hand the motion must be too quick for the eye to follow the individual spokes , and on the other it must not exceed a certain limit , which is apparently slightly different for different individuals .
To examine the phenomena more closely and conveniently a 4-inch disc of black paper was prepared , on which 12 equally spaced radial white lines were superposed , and the disc was mounted on a heavy top , running on ball bearings , and which when spun lost its speed slowly .
An electric contact on the top in conjunction with a recording chronograph gave the angular speed at each instant , while another pen worked by the observer allowed signals to be marked on the chronograph paper , indicating according to a code the nature of the appearance of the disc in various circumstances .
It was found that the lines on the spinning disc appeared stationary not Mr. A. Mallock .
only at each step , but that any slight mechanical shock , such as is given by gently tapping the head or body , or by working the jaws or by winking , was equally efficacious .
When the speed was so low that only 9 or 10 lines passed a fixed point in a second , the appearance was merely that of ordinary " flicker " and when 80 or more lines passed in the same time the surface looked uniformly grey , and in both cases mechanical shock had no apparent effect .
Figs. 1-6 give an idea of the impression received at various speeds of rotation .
4 5 6 Figs. 1-6 .
The first thing noticeable after the angular velocity drops to about six revolutions per second ( i.e.about 70 lines per second ) is that at each shock the uniform grey surface seems to break into a number of radial lines ; it is difficult to estimate their number , but a guess would put it between 40 and 50 .
This is the conventional way in which rapid rotation is suggested in drawings .
When the speed has dropped to about 4'5 revolutions per second , the lines appear equal]y spaced ( i.e. at intervals of 15 ' ) , fig. 6 .
At three revolutions per second the appearance is that of fig. 4 , the lines being separated by their natural intervals of 30 ' .
Above and below this speed the lines again are grouped in pairs ( figs. 3 and 5 ) , and at 1*5 revolutions , the spacing becomes uniform at 15 ' , see fig. 2 , rather better defined than in the corresponding fig. 6 .
Intermittent Vision .
At a lower speed still the lines again appear in pairs ( fig. 1 ) , but now dickering tends to obscure the effect .
The intensity of the light has a good deal of influence on the result .
In .a feeble light very little can be seen of stationary images , and when the light is very strong flickering interferes before the stage shown in fig. 2 is reached .
An explanation of the above-mentioned phenomena can be given on the assumption that a slight mechanical shock of any kind produces a periodic but rapidly extinguished paralysis of the perception of light .
( I have reason to believe that something of the same kind happens as regards sound but the .observations in this case are not so easily made .
) Fig. 7 .
Suppose that the nerves on which " seeing " depends cannot bear more than a certain amount of mechanical acceleration without loss of sensibility , and let the curve A , fig. 7 , represent the mechanical acceleration consequent on a shock or blow of any kind .
Let B and C be two lines giving the limits of acceleration which does not produce loss of sensation .
Then the effect of the shock will be to extinguish the image of a bright object for the times indicated by the length of the shaded parts of diagram .
The first recurrence of the image after the shock will last for a short time only , and thus if the object is in motion a fairly defined image of it will be seen at a distance from the first disappearance equal to its travel in the time DE .
As the vibration consequent on the shock dies out the time of visibility increases , the next eclipse being represented by FG , and so on .
For the class of shocks which are considered here only two or at most three secondary images can be made out .
More severe shocks cause a displacement of the directions of the eye 410 Intermittent Vision .
which displaces the image on the retina , and it is difficult to say what is seen ; but mechanical displacement of the image on the retina without loss of sensibility does not explain the observed facts .
For , in this case , only those lines would be affected which were considerably inclined to the direction of vibration ; and although the direction of the vibration ( .the application of the shock to the top or sides of the head ) has some effect on the pattern of the stationary lines , the differences are not large , and any shock makes all the radial lines visible , though in a slightly different degree .
If the explanation suggested in this paper is correct it will be seen from fig. 7 that there are two intervals of eclipse to each complete vibration , and that since , when the disc makes three revolutions per second , the lines have turned through their natural interval of 30 ' before sensibility is restored , the period is 18 per second .
The chief interest of this intermittent vision lies in the definite period involved .
What determines the period , however , is not clear ; it may be merely the mechanical period of the head on its elastic supports , or on the other hand it may be a period belonging to the brain or nerves .
That such a slight shock as that caused by opening the eyelids is effective , rather suggests the latter origin , whilst the fact that when the shock is caused by tapping the head or body the effect increases with the strength of the blow , is more consistent with a vibration of the head as a whole .

