]\gt ; 1895 .
] System of the of a Ring . .
The Complete of the Periods of a lIollo Vortex Ring By H. C. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor IOB , F.R.S. Received Apri123 .
( Abstract .
) The author discusses the stability of a hollow annular vortex in an infinite perfect liquid , and also the effect of au electric on the steady motion and the stability of such a vortex .
It is known that a hollow vortex ring ( without electric charge ) is stable for such deformations as are symmetrical about the axis of of the ring , and for such as consist in displacement of the axis of without alteralion of the sizc or shape of its cross .
This shows , in additiou to the fluted and sinuous vibrations above referred to , the vortex is capable of beaded atious , which the ]Iollow is enlalged and contracted at .
intervals along its , and also of bration of a more general type , in which the displaccment at any moment consists of waves on the Hurface of the bollow , of which the crests are circles parallel to the of the hollow , and the amplitude a sine or cosine of a mnltiple of the azimuth allgle .
The periods of these vibrations are found and proved to be real .
Since , as is easily seen , any displacement of the sulfacc can be compounded by ] acement of the various here mentioned , vortex is stable for all displacements of its stlrface .
Wheu an attempt is made to explain matter composed of atomh which consist of such vortex rings , a difficulty is found at the outset if the theory is applied to gases .
On the kinetic theory of gasef , , theory which , over a wide ange , gives esults in accordance -ith those of experiment , of an atom as the square of its velocity .
The energy of a vortex ring , however , decreases as its velocity increases .
Thus the single vortex atom theory is likely to yield resuIts that disagree with restl when applied to gases .
If , however , the electric charge is taken into account , this defect can be , to a certain extent , remedied .
The case where the eIectricity resides on the surface , supposed conducting , of the hollow of the vortex ring is worked out on the hypothesis that the period of an electrical oscillation is so small that the icity has at any time its equilibrium distribution .
It is found that , in the case osuch a ring , ever small the may be , the velocity of the ring can be deoreased , made to vanish , and finally to change sign by decreasing the radius of the ring .
At the same time , the energy diminishes , attains a minimum when the velocity of the vortex is , and then increases .
If therefore the stem of the of a Hollow Vortex Ring .
[ May 16 , vortex atom always has nearly the size that corresponds to minimum energy , its energy , neglecting a constant term , varies as the square of its velocity .
This reIation , however , only holds through a small range .
On investigation of the periods of the electrified vortex it is found that it is always unstable for , Qome types of disturbance .
The method employed throughout the investigation is to refer the circumstances of the mofion to toroidal co-ordinates .
The steady motion of the fluid is then expressed by means of a Stokes ' current function , and the urbances of the steady motion , in the case of vibration , by means of a potential function .
The periods of the different oscillations , when real , are give1l as , where is given by in the case of the general oscillation , where there are waves in the circumference the hollow ; in the case of beaded vibrations , whel e is the number of enlargements in the circumference of the ring , and ; in the case of the pnlsations , where is the circulation of the ring , its radius , the radius of the cross-section of the hollow , the density of the liquid , the electric clJarge on the ring .
In the case of the general oscillation , in which the disturbance consists of waves parallel to the axis of the ring , the amplitudes of which vary as cosine or sine of times the azimuth angle , the value of must be modified if is large .
The formula for then is

