On the Presence of a Glycolytic Enzyme in Muscle .
323 may be said that their properties are precisely parallel , the constants and curves being merely moved on to a slight extent by the replacement of sulphur by selenium without disturbing their relationships .
" On the Presence of a Glycolytic Enzyme in Muscle .
" By Sir T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Herbert Rhodes , M.B. Received May 7 , \#151 ; Read May 23 , 1901 .
It was found by Claude Bernard as well as by Ludwig and Gene-rich that the blood which issued from a contracting muscle contained less sugar than the arterial blood which entered it .
This destruction of sugar during its passage through the muscle might no doubt be partially due to the action of the blood itself upon the sugar , but it is natural to think that it may be due to the action of some glycolytic ferment contained in the muscle itself .
An attempt to isolate such a ferment or enzyme was made by one of us ( Brunton ) in 1873 .
The attempt was only partially successful .
The method employed was that of von M ittich .
Some fresh muscle was comminuted , thoroughly mixed with glycerine and allowed to stand for many days .
The glycerine extract was then filtered off .
When some of this extract was mixed with a solution of glucose and allowed to stand for some hours at the temperature of the body , a distinct diminution was observed in the amount of glucose , while a control specimen of the glucose treated in the same way with a similar quantity of pure glycerine showed no diminution .
The presence of a glycolytic substance was thus clearly shown .
An attempt was made to isolate out a glycolytic enzyme from the glycerine extract by diluting the glycerine and mixing it with alcohol .
A scanty Avhite precipitate was obtained , but the precipitate exhibited little if any glycolytic power .
Numerous experiments having failed to isolate the ferment , they were not published , and the result was only briefly noticed in a foot-note to a paper on Diabetes in the 'British Medical Journal ' of February 21st , 1874 .
At that time , one of us ( Brunton ) administered raw meat to diabetic patients in the hope of supplying sufficient glycolytic ferment to enable the sugar to be better utilised in the body , and also tried the administration of glycerine extract of muscle .
The success attending these attempts was not , however , sufficient to encourage the persistent use of this means of treatment , and the attempt to isolate a glycolytic ferment was abandoned for a good many years .
I he success of Buchner in separating an alcoholic ferment from yeast by means of great pressure gave promise of possible success in separating a glycolytic ferment from muscle by similar means , and by 324 Sir T. Lauder Bruntou and Mr. H. Khodes .
the kindness of Messrs. Allen and Hanbury , who allowed us the use of their hydraulic press , with a pressure of five tons to the square inch , we were enabled to resume the research .
The following was the method adopted : The bone and superfluous fat were removed from the muscular part of a newly killed sheep .
The muscle was then minced in a sterilised sausage machine and pounded in a mortar with silver sand .
The silver sand was previously cleaned by means of hydrochloric acid and washing with water until all the hydrochloric acid had been removed .
The mass was then put into a canvas bag and placed under the hydraulic press .
The juice was received into clean , stoppered bottles , the portion which was yielded on different pressures being received into different bottles .
The quantity of juice obtained from a leg of mutton was as follows : 1750 grammes of flesh yielded approximately\#151 ; At 0T ton pressure per sq .
inch ... 450 c.c. of juice .
, , 1'2 tons , , " ... 350 c.c. , , , , 2*5 tons , , , \gt ; ... 125 c.c. , , The method of experiment was as follows :\#151 ; 5 c.c. of the muscle juice were placed in a flask and boiled for one minute , 5 c.c. in anothei flask remained unboiled .
To each flask 50 c.c. of a 1 per cent , diabetic sugar solution and 5 c.c. of a 1 per cent , solution of lactic acid , with a fragment ( about 025 gramme ) of thymol were added .
Both vessels were incubated at 37 ' C. for 24 or 48 hours .
After the incubation was finished the sugar was estimated in both flasks by titration with Fehling 's solution , after precipitation of the albumin by boiling and neutralisation if required .
Six experiments were done with concordant results , and we have only given the result of one as being typical .
Sugar as estimated by reduction of Fehling fluid 1st sample A ( boiled juice ) 48 hrs .
' incubation 057 per cent , dextrose 2nd " B ( unboiled jnice ) " " 0'2 \#187 ; \#187 ; The destruction of sugar in the flask containing unboiled sugar seemed to be almost certainly due to some glycolytic enzyme , as the contents of the flask remained quite clear at the time of experiment .
Later on , however , the contents of the unboiled flask became turbid , and after four days a definite growth of fungi was obtained .
We next attempted to render the nmscle juice sterile by a Pasteur-Chamberland filter .
The sugar solution was sterilised by boiling , and all the flasks and other vessels used in these experiments by heating in an autoclave .
The muscle juice after filtration was completely sterile , as was shown by the fact that it was kept in a bottle plugged with sterilised wool for many weeks without any bacterial growth exhibi mg itself .
The glycolytic power of this sterilised muscle juice was tested in the following manner : 5 c.c. of the sterilised juice was place\lt ; in Oil the Presence of a Glycolytic Enzyme Muscle .
325 each of two flasks .
In one of them the juice was boiled so as to destroy any glycolytic ferment it might contain .
Into each flask we then placed 30 c.c. of a 2 per cent , sterile solution of diabetic sugar .
They were incubated for forty-eight hours .
The amount of sugar in each flask was then ascertained by titration with Fehling 's solution in the same way as before , and the result obtained was 1 -5 per cent , of diabetic sugar in the flask containing boiled meat juice , and only 075 per cent , in the flask containing unboiled juice .
A very distinct glycolytic action is thus shown by this experiment , which was repeated three times with identical results .
A number of experiments were now made to isolate an enzyme by dialysis through membranes consisting of sausage skin or parchment .
In the first series a distinct glycolytic action was observed , but this was probably due to bacterial action , as the media became turbid , and in a subsequent series made with aseptic precautions no glycolytic power was observed in the dialysate , although a flocculent precipitate resulted on the addition of absolute alcohol .
An attempt was made in another series of experiments to isolate the glycolytic ferment of muscle itself by precipitation .
These were not successful .
Fresh juice was mixed with four times its volume of* absolute alcohol , the precipitate was collected , dried and pulverised .
It was then extracted with glycerine , but this extract had little or no glycolytic power .
It gave a white flocculent precipitate with absolute alcohol , which was soluble in saline solution , but which was quite without any glycolytic action whatever .
The action of muscle juice was also tested on neutral diabetic urine and on a neutral solution of commercial dextrose .
The results were as follows :\#151 ; Flask C contained 2 c.c. boiled muscle juice and 10 c.c. neutral diabetic urine .
5\gt ; D " 2 c.c. unboiled muscle juice and 10 c.c. neutral diabetic urine .
After 50 hours ' incubation at 37 ' C. C contained 1'25 per cent , of dextrose .
D " 0-75 " " " 1 lask E contained 2 c.c. boiled muscle juice , 10 c.c. neutral diabetic urine and 1 c.c. of a 1 per cent , solution of lactic acid .
\#187 ; F " 2 c.c. unboiled juice , urine , and lactic acid as E. Again after incubation E contained 2-5 per cent , dextrose .
F \#187 ; \#187 ; 05 llask Ct contained 2 c.c. boiled muscle juice , 10 c.c. neutral solution of 0-5 per cent , commercial dextrose .
326 Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows .
Flask H contained 2 c.c. unboiled muscle juice , the rest as G after incubation .
" G " 037 per cent , dextrose .
" H gave no reduction with Fehling 's solution .
The experiments that we have described prove , we think , that muscle certainly contains a glycolytic enzyme , though it is of such a delicate nature that we have not been able to isolate it without destroying its power .
June 6,1901 .
Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the Election of Fellows having been read , Sir George King and Professor Herbert McLeod were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators , to assist the Secretaries in the examination of the balloting lists .
The votes of the Fellows present were collected , and the following Candidates were declared duly elected into the Society:\#151 ; Alcock , Alfred William , M.B , Dyson , Frank Watson , M.A. Evans , Arthur John , M.A. Gregory , John Walter , D.Sc .
Jackson , Henry Bradwardine , Capt. B.N. Macdonald , Hector Munro , M.A. Mansergh , James , M.Inst .
C.E. Martin , Charles James , M.B. Boss , Bonald , Major ( I.M.S. , retired ) .
Schlich , William , C.I.E. Smithells , Arthur , B.Sc. Thomas , Michael R.Oldfield , F.Z.S. Watson , William , B.Sc. Whetham , William C. Dampier , .
M.A. Woodward , Arthur Smith , F.G.S. Thanks were given to the Scrutators .

