Letter to the Council from Sir George Everest , C.B. , On the Expediency of re-examining the Southern Portion of the Great Indian Arc of the Meridian ; and Report of a Committee thereupon .
[ Towards the close of the last session of the Royal Society a letter was addressed to the President and Council by Colonel Sir George Everest , C.B. , advocating the expediency of re-examining the portion of the Great Indian Arc of Meridian which was surveyed by the late Colonel Lambton , and collecting in one volume the results of that part of the survey .
The Council , having taken this letter into consideration , appointed a committee , consisting of the Astronomer-Royal , Professor W. H. Miller , and Professor Stokes , to consider and report on the subject .
The report was laid before the President and Council early in the present session ; and by their direction the letter of Sir George Everest and the report of the Committee are here printed .
] Letter of Colonel Sir George Everest , C.B. 10 Westbourne Street , Hyde Park , W. April 8th , 1861 .
SIR , In a letter which I took occasion to address to you some time back * , some remarks are made to which I am desirous to draw the attention of the President and gentlemen of the Council of the Royal Society .
They are contained in page 7 of the printed copy of that letter ; and as they relate to a subject of considerable importance in the estimation of myself and many others , I hope no apology will be necessary for the present intrusion .
To enter into a long narrative of my reasons for the statements therein made would but be to repeat what I have frequently urged on other occasions ; but in this place it will perhaps be sufficient to mention that , 1st , the details of such portions of the late Colonel Lambton 's operations on the Great Arc of India to the south of Damargida , as have been printed , are only to be found in a dispersed state in the volumes of the Asiatic Researches of Calcutta ; and if it is intended that these should be permanent data , they ought to be collated and combined into one volume , in keeping with that relating to the portion north of Damargida , which was printed by me in 1847 , at the expense and by the desire of the late East India Company .
2nd .
The details of all trigonometrical operations conducted by Colonel Lambton are to be found in manuscript , in the copies of what are denominated the General Reports of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , which are deposited amongst the records at the India House ; and as , in transcribing , there is always a liability to clerical errors , therefore a volume such as is here suggested ought to be drawn up after a rigorous comparison with the manuscript ; and further , wherever it may be practicable , the observations registered in the General Reports should be compared with those originally noted in the Fieldor , as they are called , Angle-Books of the department .
3rd .
There certainly has been one error , if not more than one , committed in the computations ; but where such error or errors exist it is impossible to say a priori : the only decisive mode of detection must consist in a thorough recomputation .
4th .
All the celestial observations for amplitude made by Colonel Lambton were reduced many years ago ; but I need hardly point out that the constants and formulae for aberration , precession , nutation , &amp;c. , have undergone vast alterations since that period , and of course corresponding recomputations would now be necessary .
This would not have been needed if the observations at each limit of the Arc of 'Amplitude had been made simultaneously by two instruments on the same set of stars , one instrument at each limit , as has been done in the two Arcs north of Damargida ; but it becomes of importance when not only the years , but the seasons of observations were different .
If this were effected , we should at least have the satisfaction of knowing that the most had been made of the late Colonel Lambton 's operations , which indeed might fairly rank with those of MM .
Bouguer and De la Condamine , or MM .
Maupertius , Clairaut , and others , though , from the inferiority of instruments and other causes , of course they could not be classed for accuracy with those of a more modern date .
In proper time and place I have abundance to say on this subject ; but it will be evident that the revision and recomputation here suggested constitute a task beyond the power of any individual , and are indeed a state affair , which , now that India and all belonging to it has been taken under the control of Her Majesty 's Government , can only be accomplished as other state concerns usually are .
What , therefore , I venture to recommend is , that the President and gentlemen of the Council of the Royal Society should take this subject into their consideration , as a national question falling peculiarly under their superintendence , and that in their capacity as the parent Society and leading scientific body of Great Britain , they should use their influence to have such measures effected as in their judgment may seem meet .
Perhaps a recommendation from the Royal Society-to the Secretary of State for India would be the proper course to be pursued ; but in any case it seems very clear that it is not creditable to leave this subject in its present disjointed state .
India furnishes the largest extent of territory accessible to Great Britain in which arcs of the meridian can be measured , and there can be no question that from Cape Comorin to the Himalayan Mountains one uniform triangulation ought to be formed .
The most effectual method of accomplishing this desirable purpose would assuredly have been that which I counselled the Government of India to adopt in 1842 ; but as my proposal was rejected , it only remains to make the most of the materials we actually possess .
As to now giving effect to my proposal , which was to revise the whole series south of Damargida with the same instruments and observers as had been employed in the northern portion , there would be difficulties which did not then exist .
Not to speak of the fact that there are none of the observers of that day at present available , it must be remembered that the station-marks of the Bedu base and the Damargida Observatory were then fresh and intact , as were indeed the other station-marks in general ; but the natives of India have a habit peculiar to human beings in that state of society , of attributing supernatural and miraculous powers to our instruments , and the sites which have been occupied by them .
In cases of death or any other natural visitations they often offer up prayers to those sites ; and if the object of their prayers be not conceded , they proceed to all sorts of acts of destruction and indignity towards them : nay , as in all cases where it was practicable , my station-marks were engraved on the solid rock in situ , they have been known to proceed in bodies armed with sledge-hammers , and beat out every vestige of the engraving ; so that it is by no means certain that the marks which designate the limits at Damargida and Bedu could now be detected .
I will not trouble you with any further remarks , but , with full confidence that the Royal Society will , after giving the subject due consideration , take such measures as the case may seem in their wisdom to require , I beg to subscribe myself , Sir , Your very obedient Servant , GEORGE EVEREST .
To the Secretary of the Royal Society .
Report of the Committee .
The Committee to whom it was referred by Minute of the President and Council of the Royal Society of the date of June 13 , 1861 , to consider and report on a letter by Colonel Sir George Everest , C.B. , dated April 8 , 1861 , relating to the steps proper now to be taken in reference to Colonel Lambton 's Survey of an Arc of Meridian in India , and on the subjects therewith connected , have to offer the following Report : 1 .
The Committee have examined the principal printed books on the subject , namely , The several volumes of the Asiatic Transactions , containing the details , to the extent to which in works of similar character they are usually published , of Colonel Lambton 's Surveys .
The recalculation of the celestial amplitudes by Bessel in No. 334 of the 'Astronomische Nachrichten .
' The two printed volumes by Sir George Everest , containing the details of his own Indian Survey with much information on Colonel Lambton 's Survey .
A former letter addressed by Sir George Everest to the Secretary , and printed in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' for January 27 , 1859 ( vol. ix .
pp. 620-625 ) .
The Committee have also been favoured by Sir George Everest , at a personal interview which that gentleman at their request most kindly granted them , with very important oral information on the instruments , the methods of proceeding , and other particulars relating to Colonel Lambton 's and to his own survey ; and they have been permitted by him to peruse a most valuable document , partly of private and partly of semi-official character , addressed to him by Mr. De Penning , formerly Chief Assistant to Colonel Lambton in the conduct of the Survey .
2 .
The Committee will first advert to the observations and primary deductions from them ( of the nature of adopted angles , &amp;c. ) in Colonel Lambton 's surveys .
And in regard to these , they have no hesitation in stating their opinion that no good whatever would be done by general examination of the angle-books .
It is evident from Mr. De Penning 's statements that the utmost care was used , and the best judgment of the Officers was exercised , at a time when all the 2u qualifying circumstances of the separate observations were known to them , and that any attempt to depart from their conclusions at the present time would probably lead to error .
The Committee remark that the exhibition ( in the Asiatic Researches ) of the adopted angles with the corrections required to make the sum of the angles in each triangle equal to two right angles , renders it impossible that any clerical or typographical error can escape discovery : if any such should be found , of which the proper correction is not obvious and certain , they think it proper that reference should be made to the manuscripts now preserved in the Archives of the Department of State for India ; but they recommend nothing further .
3 .
In regard to the accuracy of the calculations of the sides of the triangles , founded on the adopted angles to which allusion is made above , there appears to be no check except the verifications by the measure of widely-separated bases ; and the comparison of these , as presented in the Asiatic Researches , shows a degree of accordance which the Committee , guided by the results of Sir George Everest 's experience , consider satisfactory .
Still they remark that the form in which these calculations are printed makes their verification extremely easy , and the Committee recommend that they be verified .
Of the next step of calculation , namely the computation and aggregation of successive portions of the meridian ( including the astronomical determinations of azimuth ) , there appears to be no check whatever ; and the Committee recommend that this important calculation be repeated , and in a different form , if the officer entrusted with such revision should ' think it desirable .
4 .
The details of the base-measure reductions , as founded on Colonel Lambton 's ' statements of the measuring process , admit of easy verification ; and the Committee recommend that they be verified .
But the evaluation of all these measures , for application to the estimate of the length of Arc of IMeridian at the level of the sea , requires that the elevation of the bases be very approximately known .
The portions of the Arc surveyed respectively by Colonel Lambton and Sir George Everest , join each other at Damargida ; and there is a large discordance between the elevation of this station , as given first by Colonel Lambton , and secondly by Sir George Everest and Sir A. Waugh .
Guided by the information which Sir George Everest has furnished , on the inadequacy of the vertical circles of the instrua ments employed by Colonel Lambton , on the want of attention to atmospheric circumstances , and on the want of simultaneity in reciprocal observations ( all which considerations have been carefully kept in view in Sir George Everest 's and Sir A. Waugh 's observations ) , the Committee recommend that Colonel Lambton 's determinations of height of base be rejected , and those of Sir George Everest and Sir A. Waugh be adopted ; and that the resulting corrections be made to the estimated lengths of Meridian Arcs , as far as , in the judgment of the Officer revising this work , it is now possible to do it .
5 .
The reductions of astronomical observations for celestial amplitude of arcs and absolute determination of latitude admit of easy examination ; and the Committee recommend that they be thoroughly verified .
The Committee recommend that the original numbers of these observations , as well as those of celestial azimuths , be verified by collation with any manuscripts of the Survey which may now be preserved in England .
6 .
The reduction of the Latitude-observations was corrected several years ago by Bessel .
The Committee are of opinion that additional accuracy can now be given to these corrections .
First , the proper motions of the stars are now better known than they were in Bessel 's time .
Secondly , the value of the coefficient of Nutation used by Bessel is now universally abandoned by astronomers : The alteration made in the result by the use of corrected values of these elements would probably be small ; but , remarking that they can be introduced with great facility , the Committee recommend that the corrections be made .
7 .
The Committee have had personal experience of the great inconvenience caused by the dispersion of Colonel Lambton 's accounts of the survey-operations through numerous volumes of the Asiatic Researches ; and viewing the limited circulation of that work in continental libraries , they are inclined to believe that very few men of science have it in their power to form a correct judgment as to the value of Colonel Lambton 's great work .
The Committee therefore recommend that , when the verifications and corrections which they have particularised shall have been made , the whole be published in one volume , in a form as nearly similar as circumstances permit to those describing Sir George Everest 's operations and results , and in sufficient number ( say 500 copies ) to allow of their being presented to all the known Libraries , Academies , and Observatories of importance , throughout the world .
8 .
The Committee unhesitatingly express their opinion that the expense attending all the recommendations which they have made would be small in comparison with the scientific value of the result .
And even in the event of ulterior operations ( to which they proceed to allude ) being ultimately sanctioned , the adoption of the course which they have recommended would give valuable facilities .
9 .
The Committee think it right , however , to call the attention of the President and Council to the general quality of Colonel Lambton 's Surveys , which , though executed with the greatest care and ability , were carried on under serious difficulties , and at a time when instrumental appliances were far less complete than at present .
There is no doubt that at the present time the Surveys admit of being improved in every part .
The Standards of length are better ascertained than formerly , and all uncertainty on the unit of measure can be removed .
The base-measuring apparatus can be improved .
The instruments for horizontal angles used by Colonel Lambton were inferior to those now in use ; and one of them was most severely injured by an accidental blow , the result of which was more distinctly injurious because the circle was read by only two microscopes .
Allusion has already been made to the circumstances of observation affecting the altitude of stations .
Though the astronomical observations were probably good for their age , yet new observations conducted with such instruments and on such principles as those adopted by Sir George Everest would undoubtedly be better .
The Committee therefore express their strong hope that the whole of Colonel Lamubton 's Survey may be repeated with the best modern appliances .
The expense of such a work would be considerable ; but no Arc of Meridian yet measured has such claims on the attention of the patrons of science as the Indian Are , from its proximately equatorial position , and from its anomalies and the reference of them to the attraction of the Himalaya Mountains .
" G. B. AIRY .
" s W. H. MILLER .
" C. G. STOKEs .
"

