]\gt ; March 5 , 1896 .
Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , Presiden , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates for election into the Society were read , as follows:\mdash ; Allen , Alfred Henry , F.C.S. Beevor , Charles dward , ovey , Henry Taylor , M.A. Burdett , Henry Charles .
Callaway , Charles , D. Sc. Clarkp , Sir George Sydenham , Major , R.E. Clowe , Frank , D. Sc. Collie , J. Norman , Ph. D. Corfield , William Henry , M.D. Crookshank , Professor Edgar March , M.B. Dibdin , William J. , F.I.C. Downing , Arthur Matthew Weld , M.A. Dresser , Henry Eales .
reworth , Francis Ysidro , M.A. Elgar , Francis , LL. D. Elwes , Henry John , F.L.S. Etheridge , Robert , F.G.S. Gray , AndretY , Haddon , Alfred Cort , M.A. Haldane , John Scott , M.D. Hamilton , Professor David James , M.D. Harley , Vaugtlan B. , M.D. Harmer , Sidney Fredel.ic , Haswell , Professor William A. , D. Sc. Head , Henry , Hill , George Henry , M.Inst .
C.E. Hind , George Jennings , Ph. D. Howes , Professor George Bond , F.L.S. Kipping , F. Stanley , D. Sc. Lansdell , Rev. Lockwood , Charles Barrett , F.R.C. S. McConnell , James Frederick Parry , eon-Major , F.R.C.P. McMahon , Charles Alexander , Lient.-Gen .
Mansergh , James , M.Inst .
] ] Martin , John Biddulph , Mathews , George Ballard , M.A. Matthey , Edward , F.C.S. Miers , Henry Alexander , M.A. Mott , Frederick Walker , M.D. Murray , George Robert Milne .
Murray , John , Ph. D. Neville , Francis Henry , M.A. Notter , James Lane , SulgeonLieut.-Col .
Oliver , John Ryder , Major-Gen .
, R.A. Pearson , Professor Karl .
M.A. Preston , Professor , M.A. Rutley , .
S. Salomons , Sir David , M.A. Seward , Albert CharJes , Shenstone , William Ashwell , F.I.C. Smith , Professor William Robert , M.D. 1896 .
] On th natical Theory of rolution .
Stebbing , Rev. Thomas Roscoe Rede , M.A. Stewart , Professor Charles , M.R.C. S. Tan er , Professor Henry William LIoyd , .
A. Tathnm , F. W. , M.R.C.P. Trouton , Professor ederick Thomas , A. Tul.ner , Professor Hall , M. A. Waterhouse , James , Colonel .
Whymper , dward , F.R.G.S. Wilson , William E. Wimshurst , James .
Windle , Coghill Allen , M.D. Woodhead , German Sims , ] vard , rokco , F. G. S. Win , William Palmer , Sc. The Papers were read:\mdash ; I. ibutions to the Theor.y of olution .
Note on clcction University , London .
Communicated by F. F.R.S. Received ebruary 1 , 1896 .
( 1 ) In a recent memoir ions to the Theory of Evolution , III .
Regression , Heredity , and Panmixia now in type the ' Philosophical Transactions ' ) I have found it necesto note the difTerence in mean and variation of a pop atiou when ( a ) the individuals of a sex are taken into account mates , ( b ) when the individuals of a sex are as parents or weighted with fertility .
The mcan variation of the popuation are supposed to be with regard to any whatever .
If such a difference is found to veen t variatiot ] CUl'ves for mates and for pitrents , then there is a correl fertility and the organ measm ed. Under the action of edity thet will accol.dingly be a progressive evol [ ltion in this nless this evolution be cbeckeci by ) other factor of 0gressive chan , natural selection .
my memoir I this factor of progressive evolution Reproducfive Selection .
* Without inn llence of variation in fertility has been considel.ed RolJliules 11 ] ] itic Selcction , idea is tcrm appears to me very different that of seleetion .
In , Mr. Romanes snpposes the fcrtility curve and the correlation owing tu some clluse or otllcr , to become double-humped ; thoy J ] be ed into component each corresponding to a ction at un nation of ) oi pecics .
] tive selection ) poses the fertility curve and correlation surr ces to ] .
ou hotnogcncons it risc to ; it is purcly a sonrco of in the same specics .
] ) only to double hump occurs in of ) I nlt is a ximum ttt absolute iufertility , due in all to Prof. K. Pearson .
Contributions to the ecord towing conclusions areadyJ eresent t Let amy organ individuals of one sex be selected , and let be the feltility of an individual , whose organ differs from the mean of all mated individuals .
Let be the mean organ for mates , be the mean ol gan for all parents , i.e. , a mate reckoned once for each offspring .
Let be the mean of tlJe offspring for the same or any other organ , taking one or any other number equally from each mated individual , let be the mean of a#l offspring .
Let be standard deviations , reckoned from the formula : ( sum of squares of deviations ) ( number of illdividuals ) , and witho regard to any ecial law of , such as Laplace 's law of errors .
Let be the coefficient of correlation between parent and offspring , .
each parent being , iven only one or , at any rate , an equal numbel of is the coefficient of pure heredity { or the organs in question , supposing fertility to be uniform , or at any rate to have no eJation with ] the organ or clJaracteristic under investigation .
Let be the between fertility and the given organ in the parent , and ] the coefficient of variation of fertility in the parent , i. e. , if be the mean fertility : where is the stardard iation of parental fertilities .
Let be the deviation from fertility of parent with organ .
The values of and are to from the formulae\mdash ; where , in , each parent is to be taken only once , or at any rate the same number of times .
Thus and are olutely independent of any special distribution of variation .
Then the following resuIts hold if be the number of mated ( ) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( u ) traint on fertility .
As those couples who fall into this component leave no offspring , Cannot give rise to a new species .
there be preferential mating , Mm will 1lot be the mean organ for all individuals .
I have adopted the mate mean in order to free the investigations from } fluencc of this of exual selectio1l .
1896 .
] matical Tof Erolntio ) ) .
( iii ) . .
( ) .
first equations are true whateYer be the distrioution of riation in 1nates , rents , , and fertility ; ) fourth cqn tion ssumes tdevi t of a or :Ifspring to be .
This result for in rent and ) , a pe of ) which holds closely for inheritance in the case of man .
It oulrl flow an law of gave of egression and a standaYd tion f the } lVhat , ever , is the imporant is this , thnt no on been made with to the of the fertility tion .
This is essenf itainly in the case of man this ) elation i the distr.ibution of variation in kedly s and not llornlal in chal.acter .
Our equations , hich not been solely based on the ] normal heory of tion .
( 3 ) By forming mealls for ftcteri or mates and for reuts , we cftn ) , if rhere is or is not any sensible corrclation between that istic ) and .
Equation ( ii ) bless the ound for , since and are easily when know ho ( ibution of fertility .
If the nocmal old be zero , : term it ) ) be expected very large .
When has been from ] tion ( i ) , quations ( iii ) and ( iv ) us and reproductive sclection in its action on the nlea and of generations .
( 4 ) I upplied these rPsuf bs the of hioh stistics are present ilable .
1 { ind for vard s)ilies , , and for of This , ering differsnce of a next place ) ' appears to be a Gtce ( ( the mean leight of mothers of and ) ) of we have , and since , it follows .
Now , the coefficient iation for fertility in dau hters is not quite ) slill very hc same as thnt for fertility in general .
We fnd that to , according as we the or second no of given above .
We therefore conclude th there , a sensib elation ] in of daughters , 304 On the ematical Theory of Evolution .
[ Mar. 5 , Turning now to Equations ( iii ) and ( iv ) , I note that , and are multiplied by the small quantities and , and that and only differ from and by ities of the order Hence , neglected to a first approximation , we can use the value already known , for ( iii ) and ( iv ) and the value , already for 00 in ( iii ) , we thus deduce\mdash ; These are the effects of reproductive ] ection on the height of women .
thus see that the effect is to render women less val.iable , and to raise their mean height .
The quantities are very small , but it must be remembered that the process is secular .
Thus , reproductive selection to have been unchecked by natural selection , say , for forty generations , mean height of women , small quantities of the second order , lvould have been about inches .
A factor which would alter stature by about 3 inches in 1000 years is learly capable of producing considerable results in the long periods .
which evolution may be supposed to have been at work .
In the case of both mean and standard deviation the changes from wives to daughters ( and are , in the o1lly statistics at present available , far more considerable than the above values ; but , it must be remembered , that other causes than reproductive selection are at work , such as shrinkage with age and the greater physical training of the you1lg women of to-day .
( 5 ) I have only been able to measure , so far , the actual vain of the correlation between fertility and any organ the case of stature in women .
It would , doubtless , be more ) sible in other cases , e.g- , pelvic ements .
But there are certain considerationf ; which msy be referred to here , and which will how important\mdash ; at any rate in the case of man\mdash ; it is to take into consideration the influence of reproductive selection .
From considering the fertility of man , in England and in Denmark , I conclude that 25 per cent. of the mated population produce onehalf the next iion .
Tbis is the gross fertility .
Allowing for the selective death-rate\mdash ; which I knew only for Denmark\mdash ; 27 per cent. of the mated population produced half the next generation .
In other words , altbough natural selection tends to counteract reproductive selection by a ivhich , it may be shown , rises continuously and uniformly with increased fertility , yet , in the case civilised , it is totally ineffectual as against ctive selection .
If we allow for the portion of the population which remains unmarried .
we are within he mark if we say that less than 25 per cemt .
of one generation produce more than half of the next , creneration .
Correla1896 .
] On the Priodicity of Ear .
305 tion , therefore , between fertility and any mental or physical characteristic must work a progressive change .
We know that there are very able race and class differences in the lIlatter of fertility .
It is very difficult to understand how these could have arisen by the action of natural selection combined with heredity , unless either ( l ) fertility be inherited , or ( 2 ) fertility and some inberibed mental or physical characteristic be correlated .
Bat ither ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) involves reproductive selection .
We have seen that there is evidence of correlation between the stature of womem and their fertility .
There is also evidence of a correlation between fertility class .
Taking Copenhagen , for which alone we have satisfactory -fertility statisbics , it is possible to show : ( i ) That the gross fertility of the artisan is more than the gross fertility of the professional classes .
( ii ) the net tility of the artisan less than the net fertility of the professional classes .
atul .
selection , at sight , checks reproductive ction , ater ftility connoting a death-rate ; but we find : ( iii ) That the marriage-rate of the artisan is so much han the marriage-rate of the professional classes , that the perfertility of the former considerably exceeds that of the latter .
Thus , while a selective death-rate checks reproductive as class and , a selective -rate again places ductive selection at an advantage as c.ompared with natural selection ; the tion would accordin appear to be ultimately , and in the long run , eproducing itself from the classes .
I hopo , later , to publish the analysis , curves , and statistics on which conclusions are based ; at present I only wish to attention to the gellerallesult : that l.eproductive selection\mdash ; at any rate in ilised \mdash ; seems a factor of evolution equipotent to natural sclection , if , indeed , it be not prepotent .
II .
" " Diurnal Periodicity of hquakes.\ldquo ; By CHARLES VlbON , .S .
, Master at King 's Higl ] .
chool , Birminghaln .
Communicated ssor I. Received February ( Abstract .
) Reference is made to the previous work of De Montessns and mori , the former endGavouring to show that the diurnal of eal.thqunkes is apparent there than real , and the latter )

