IX .
Description of the Corundum Stone , and its Varieties , commonly known by the Names of Oriental Ruby , Sapphire , &amp;c. ; with Observations on some other mineral Substances .
By the Count de Bournon , F. R. S. Read March e5 , 1802 .
WV HEN , in the year 1798 , I presented to the Royal Society , in conjunction with Mr. GREVILLE , a Paper on the Corundum Stone , * I gave some hints of an opinion which I , as well as Mr. GREVILLE , had already formed , namely , that the said stone was absolutely of the same nature with those stones or gems which mineralogists , following the example of the jewellers , had hitherto distinguished by the epithet oriental .
This opinion was founded upon circumstances which appeared to me perfectly satisfactory ; but these circumstances had not yet been sufficiently examined , nor were they sufficiently striking , to obviate every possible objection ; and , consequently , my opinion was not yet in a state fit to be presented to the Royal Society , as an established truth .
Since that time , I have never lost sight of this object , nor have I neglected any means in my power , which could conduce to the end I had in view ; and I may say , that my success has far surpassed my expectations .
The specimens of corundum that have been lately sent from India , joined to the very considerable collection of oriental gems , in their perfect crystalline forms , which I have been able to procure , have afforded me the most satisfactory demonstration that a mineralogist can wish for ; and nothing was now wanting to fix , in a complete and decisive manner , the general opinion respecting this stone , except to give it that additional support which is furnished by chemical investigation .
Mr. KLAPROTH indeed had already published an analysis of the corundum stone , and of the sapphire ; but he had not submitted to the same scrutiny , the perfect red corundum or oriental ruby ; it is possible also , that the specimens of corundum he made use of in his analysis , which had been taken from among the first specimens of this stone sent from India , were not so pure as might have been wished , and that this impurity was the cause of the difference , ( which however was very trifling , ) between the result of their analysis and that of the sapphire .
I therefore chose , from among the specimens of corundum which had been sent from China , from the kingdom of Ava , from the Carnatic , and from the coast of Malabar , such pieces as appeared to me the most pure ; and , after having added to them a quantity of oriental rubies and sapphires , sufficient for many repeated analyses , I requested Mr. CHENEVIX , whose chemical labours are so useful to mineralogy , by his constant application 344 of them to that science , to have the kindness to join with me in the investigation I had undertaken .
The Royal Society will perceive , in the detail given by Mr. CHENEVIX himself , of the analyses which he has made , not only.of the different varieties of corundum , but also of the substances which accompany this stofe in its matrix , how very satisfactory to science are the results of those analyses ; insomuch , that I can now offer to the Society , as one of the best established truths , what , in the year 1798 , I mentioned merely as a suspicion which had great probability in its favour ; and can also , in consequence of the particular study I have made of all the varieties of stones that I have here joined together , under the general denomination of corundum , present to the Society a collection of facts , for the most part unknown , which , altogether , may be considered as forming a mineralogical history of this substance .
Although the epithet oriental has been for a long time used by the lapidaries , to express , in gems or precious stones , a degree of hardness superior to that of other stones , ( the diamond excepted , ) which made them capable of taking a more brilliant polish ; and although , following the example of the lapidaries , naturalists had employed the same term by way of distinguishing them , there still remained a great uncertainty , respecting the nature of the analogy which really existed between the various stones to which the above epithet was applied .
The nomenclature here spoken of was not , at its origin , the result of any mineralogical knowledge ; in consequence of which , a number of stones , of a totally different nature , were united together , for no other reason but because , among those of the same colour , some were found to be of a much superior degree of hardness to others ; and , as those which were the hardest most commonly came from the East Indies , all hard gems were called oriental , as a general mark of discrimination .
The chief distinguishing character of gems was then derived from their colour , which had caused them to be denominated sapphire , ruby , amethyst , topaz , emerald , chrysolite , &amp;c. and it was thought sufficient to add to these names the epithet oriental , to distinguish those among them whose hardness was superior to that of the others .
ROME ' DE LISLE was the first mineralogist who threw a gleam of light , into the obscurity which existed in this confused assemblage of stones .
His classification of gems , although it had not yet attained the degree of perfection to which the science of crystallography ( of which he had just laid the foundation ) may hereafter carry it , was undoubtedly one of the greatest steps mineralogy had made , at the time when the second edition of his work , upon this new character of stones , was published .
After having fixed , according to their different characters , and particularly according to that which was derived from their crystalline forms , the place which each of the species composing this particular class of lithology ought to occupy , he placed at the head of them , under the title of oriental ruby , all those stones which , being possessed of a degree of hardness superior to that of all others , ( except the diamond , ) admitted a more brilliant polish , and appeared under the form of a hexaedral pyramid , or of two , joined base to base , the solid angle of whose summit , taken upon two of the opposite faces , varied , according to him , from 20 ?
to 30 ? .
He added also , that this stone presented all sorts of colours , either separately , or united together in the same stone .
Nearly at the same time , 236 the Corundum Stone , and its Varieties , &amp;c. Mr. WERNER , following the system his genius had just then formed in mineralogy , was conducted to exactly the same results .
The very small number of perfectly defined crystals of this stone which existed in the cabinets of Europe , ( they being much more rich in cut and polished specimens , ) did not permit either of the above-mentioned mineralogists to obtain a clear idea of the whole of its characters , so as to enable him to give a proper description of it .
ROME ' DE LISLE , indeed , may be said to have made a step backwards , by excluding from the number of its crystalline forms , the rhomboid , which , in the first edition of his Crystallography , he had assigned to it , on account of a crystal of that form , which was among the stones preserved in the Guard Meuble of the King of France .
This stone , which was of a blue colour inclining to purple , and of a very considerable size , ( since it weighed no less than 132 carats , ) had been polished ; a circumstance which had necessarily altered its form in some measure , although there is reason to believe that it had been polished only upon its natural surfaces .
ROME ' DE LISLE , however , who had , merely for the above reason , excluded the rhomboid from the forms of the sapphire , being induced afterwards to recur to his former opinion , made another mistake , by assigning to this substance , the rhomboid of sulphate of iron or martial vitriol , ( the measures of which are very nearly from 82 ?
to 98 ' , ) as that which properly belonged to it .
Our mineralogical knowledge with respect to corundum , was therefore very little advanced , when we became acquainted with that which was sent from India .
Mr. GREVILLE , in the Paper to which I have already referred , has given a very interesting and instructive account , not only respecting the introduction of this IDCCCI .
Ii 237 stone into Europe , but also respecting the inforriation which , in consequence of his repeated inquiries , he had been able to obtain with regard to its local situation ; and it is chiefly to him that we are indebted , for nearly all the specimens of this stone which exist in the various collections , as well as for the attention which has been paid to it .
From the moment when this stone became known , the opinions which were formed , respecting the place it ought to occupy in mineralogy , were very various ; indeed , it was natural they should be so , with regard to a stone which , as yet , was only known by means of a few specimens , ( by no means sufficiently numerous to supply every collection , ) and whose local situation , as well as every thing else relating to it , was totally unknown .
It has suffered , in this respect , the fate usually attendant on things so circumstanced ; yet , whatever erroneous notions have hitherto been entertained respecting it , it has at last , I trust , found the place assigned to it by nature and truth .
The progress of chemistry , with respect to this stone , has not been more certain than that of mineralogy .
It was first placed among those substances which were considered as composed of new earths ; afterwards it was classed among those which were found by analysis to be chiefly , and indeed almost exclusively , composed of argill .
This was already a great step towards the knowledge of its real nature ; since it was thereby placed , if not by the side of , at least at a very inconsiderable distance from , the oriental gems , then known chiefly by the name of sapphire .
It is , in fact , among those gems or stones , now known by the names of sapphire , oriental ruby , &amp; c , that corundum ought 238 to be placed ; but the progress by which we have arrived at this degree of knowledge was necessarily very slow , and was impeded by continual obstacles : for the scarcity and smallness of the crystals of corundum , and the impression naturally made upon our minds by the various appearances it exhibited to us , were by no means likely to lead us to form a true judgment respecting it .
So that Mr. WERNER , whose great and acknowledged talents have justly caused his opinion to be considered , nearly throughout all Germany , as of the highest importance in all mineralogical decisions , has hitherto continued to place corundum between pitchstone and felspar ; consequently , he has removed it to a considerable distance from the sapphire , since there exists , according to his classification , nearly thirty intermediate substances .
Crystallography also offers some difficulties with respect to this stone ; and these difficulties are only to be guarded against by a very particular study of it , and especially by an accurate examination of all its varieties , as objects of comparison .
The Abb6 HAUY , to whose great knowledge of crystallography all Europe is eager to do justice , although he gave some indications that he began to waver in his opinion , did not think there were reasons sufficiently strong to adopt that which I had , without satisfactory evidence , advanced in 1798 ; and has continued to separate the corundum from the sapphire , giving to the latter the name of Telesie .
In the new System of Mineralogy , which the Abb6 HAUY has just published , he places corundum immediately after felspar , and before ceylonite , the name of which he has changed into Pleonaste .
One cannot help being astonished that the very great hardness of this stone , as well as its great gravity , did not lead him to li place it nearer those stones with which , from their possessing those two qualities , it seemed to have some analogy .
Perhaps he was not in possession of specimens of sapphire , or of oriental ruby , or of corundum , sufficiently characterised to serve as objects of comparison ; and I cannot help expressing great regret , that the crystals of corundum which were ' sent to him by Mr. GREVILLE , selected by myself from his superb collection , and to which I had the pleasure of adding an almost equal number from my own , were not sufficient to carry conviction to Mr. HAUY 's mind ; as it would have given me great satisfaction to find that my observations , upon this interesting substance , perfectly coincided with his .
The opinion of a naturalist so justly celebrated as Mr. HAUY , will naturally have great weight in the minds of those who pursue the study of mineralogy ; for which reason , after giving a particular description of corundum , comprehending all the characters which are peculiar to it , I shall endeavour to remove every objection which this mineralogist still thinks it right to offer , against its union with the sapphire , oriental ruby , &amp;c. The substance here treated of , has hitherto presented itself to our notice under two appearances , which differ so much from each other , in the greater number of those characters which most forcibly affect our senses , particularly those which concern the organ of sight , that we cannot be much surprised to find that mineralogists feel some reluctance , at the idea of uniting together substances which appear so very dissimilar .
Under one of these appearances , in which it is known by the name of corundum , this substance presents itself either in fragments , or in crystals of a pretty large size ; sometimes , indeed , of a very considerable one .
The surface of these crystals is generally dull and rough ; their texture , which is very much lamellated , is shown to be so by their fracture , which is obtained without much difficulty , as the adherence of their crystalline lamine to each other is not very strong , and is easily overcome ; and the crystal or fragment may always be brought to the rhomboid , its primitive form .
Their colour , which is most commonly rather dull , is a whitish , greenish , and sometimes yellowish gray .
Specimens of a purplish red , or of a blue colour , have always been extremely rare ; indeed , a short time since , no such specimens were known , excepting a very few , preserved in the collection of Mr. GREVILLE , and some small fragments he had given away ; but the specimens which have been lately sent from the district of Ellor , have contributed to increase their number .
Under the other appearance , ( in which this substance is known by the names of sapphire , ruby , &amp;c. ) it offers itself , on the contrary , in crystals which are generally of a very small size , and have a smooth and brilliant surface .
Their transparency is often very great ; and it seldom happens that they are not semitransparent , in a greater or less degree .
They are more difficult to break in the direction of their crystalline lamina ; and this difficulty increases , in proportion to their purity and their brilliancy .
Their colours are much more beautiful , more variegated , and more lively .
With respect to the name of this substance , as , in its most common state , it is known in India , ( its native country , ) by the name of corundum , and as that name has been generally adopted in Europe , I have thought proper to continue it , and shall distinguish , by the terms perfect and imperfect , the two different states in which it presents itself to our observation , Nothing , 241 in my opinion , occasions greater obstacles to the progress of a science , than making a change in its nomenclature , especially when that change is made without a general agreement .
For , by this means there exists no fixed basis ; and , consequently , every one thinks he has a right to exercise an arbitrary power in this respect , and to reject the name given to a substance by those who first observed and described it , for the purpose of giving it one more suitable to his own ideas .
And thus , at last , it becomes necessary , ( in order that the labours of our predecessors may not be wholly useless , ) to fill the new works on the subject with a tedious list of synonyms , which too often becomes in the end a mass of uncertainty , and a subject of everlasting discussion .
COLOUR .
Although the colour of stones , strictly speaking , may be considered as a very variable circumstance , and as one which can by no means be included among those fixed characters which determine the nature of the stone , it is nevertheless certain , that many stones seem disposed to assume some colours in preference to others ; and , therefore , the colour of a stone , though an uncertain character , may sometimes serve as a secondary mark of distinction ; particularly , if we are cautious not to draw any inferences from it , except in conjunction with other characters .
As its chief use is , to fix the value of precious stones , and as , in those here treated of , it has served as a basis for the former classification of them , it becomes more necessary to give a minute description of it in this substance than in any other .
I have already said , that the colour of common corundum , ( which I shall in future distinguish by the name of imperfect corundum , ) has , in general , very little brilliancy ; but , in proportion as the crystals announce , by their greater transparency , a greater degree of purity and perfection , their colour becomes more lively and more brilliant ; this , however , seldom happens , except in crystals of a small size .
The colour of these crystals is various , and seems to depend very much upon the place where they are found .
In the Carnatic , the prevailing colour is a grayish white ; which , however , very often approaches to a pale green , and sometimes to a yellowish cast .
They are also found , but much more rarely , of a red , and of a blue colour ; and , when they are of those colours , the red ' always inclines to the purple , and the blue is of that azure kind which is generally known by the name of sapphire blue .
In the corundum of China , and in that of the kingdom of Ava , the colour is generally a green , more or less deep , with a dull appearance ; or it is brown .
The corundum of the coast of Malabar , appears of a reddish brown in those parts which are opaque ; but , whenever there is , in any part of it , the smallest degree of transparency , the forementioned colour always appears to be accompanied by a tinge of purple .
In the perfect corundum , which is found in Pegu and in ; Ceylon , but which is now most commonly brought ( when in its natural or unpolished state ) from the last mentioned place , the colours are much more various , and more lively .
The chief of these colours are , red , blue , and yellow .
The red colour constitutes the : stone known bythe name of oriental ruby ; but it seldom happens that this colour has not a small mixtureof blue , which gives it a tinge slightly inclining to purple .
The blue colour is always that which is known by ' the name of azure blue ; and the stone which possesses this colour is distinguished by the name of sapphire .
The yellow colour is seldom pure , being in general more or less mixed with a reddish tint .
The oriental gem of this colour is called the oriental topaz .
From a duly proportioned mixture of the blue and the red , is produced the purple colour , which constitutes the oriental amethyst .
Sometimes the red colour is predominant , at other times the blue ; and , in the latter case , the stone possesses that beautiful purple colour which is so pleasing to the eye .
Stones of this colour are among the most rare of those belonging to this substance .
By the union of the blue colour with the yellow , is formed the green , which produces the oriental emerald ; but there is usually mixed with this colour a small proportion of red , which gives to the green a brown and rather dull tinge .
Sometimes however the yellow colour is predominant , which of course gives the green a yellowish cast , and then the stone becomes the oriental chrysolite .
I have not yet seen any of the green stones , or oriental emeralds , in which the green colour was perfectly pure and brilliant , as it appears in the true emerald , called the peruvian one .
In the mixtures of which I have just spoken , the colours are , in general , perfectly blended together ; sometimes however they exist in a separate state , and so distinctly , in the same stone , that the mixed colour is only perceptible at the point where the different colours meet .
At other times , these colours being only coarsely mixed , and not blended together , the stone presents the one or the other of them more distinctly , according to the position in which it is held .
TRANSPARENCY .
The crystals of corundum from the Carnatic , having their surface always rough , and being usually more or less impregnated with fine particles of the various substances which compose their matrix , very seldom possess any degree of transparency ; but , when these crystals are broken , their fragments generally have a degree of semi-transparency , but most commonly a very slight one , unless the fragments happen to be very thin ; even then , I have never found them perfectly transparent .
If such of these fragments as have the greatest degree of semi-transparency , are held between the eye and the light , there may be observed , within their substance , a great number of lines or fissures , which cross each other , and prevent the free passage of the light , the greater part of which is reflected .
These fissures , which arise from there not being a complete adherence between all the parts of the crystalline laminae , are the principal cause of the slight degree of transparency commonly met with in the kind of corundum here spoken of ; which kind may truly be said not to have attained , in its crystallization , all the perfection it is capable of acquiring , and which may be observed in the perfect corundum of Ceylon .
I think it also right to observe , that the corundum of the Carnatic , when of a red or a blue colour , has always a greater degree of transparency , and is more pure , than that which is of any other colour ; and , in these respects , the corundum of a blue colour is much superior to that which is red .
In the imperfect corundum of China and of Malabar , although the surface of the crystals is also generally rough , yet , as they are less impregnated with foreign substances , it is not uncommon to observe in them a greater or less degree of transparency at their edges .
Some crystals have , indeed , been sent to us from China , ( very small ones , I confess , but very perfect , ) which possessed a degree of transparency very little inferior to that of the perfect corundum of Ceylon .
The terminal faces of the crystals from the two last mentioned places , are very frequently what is called chatoyant ; a property of which I shall hereafter speak more particularly .
The perfect corundum of Ceylon , whatever may be its colour , always has a greater or less degree of semi-transparency ; and very often is perfectly transparent .
Sometimes , indeed , the crossed fissures already spoken of , as existing in the imperfect corundum , are also to be observed in the interior part of this ; but , when that is the case ; they are less strong , and less numerous .
The crystals of the perfect corundum have a smooth and brilliant surface ; and they show all the transparency their substance possesses , without its being necessary , as in the imperfect corundum , to break them for that purpose .
In general , when they have an inferior degree of transparency , whatever their colour may be , their terminal surfaces possess the appearance called chatoyant , which , as I have already said , is very frequently observed in the corundum of China , and in that of the coast of Malabar .
In general , although the perfect corundum of a blue colour , or sapphire , has exactly the same characters as that which is of a different colour , it appears to me certain , if I may judge from the great number of specimens I have seen , that it more commonly possesses a perfect transparency , than that which is of any other colour .
I have already made a similar observation , in speaking of the imperfect corundum of the Carnatic .
To this circumstance must be attributed , the superior value of an oriental ruby , if without defect and of a certain size , when compared with that of a sapphire of equal size and equally perfect .
To the same cause must also be ascribed , the scarcity of fragments of sapphires , in comparison with those of rubies , in the sand of Ceylon which has passed through the hands of the lapidaries ; the fragments of the former being usually more transparent , they are selected from it , as more worthy to be cut and polished .
HARDNESS .
Corundum is , next to the diamond , the hardest of all stones ; but , with respect to this character , the degrees of intensity are various ; and this variety depends principally upon the degree of purity , and the colour , of the stone .
When the imperfect corundum of the Carnatic is neither of a blue nor of a red colour , its hardness is less considerable , in proportion as its transparency is less , and its internal substance more full of those lines or fissures , which , as I have already said , are commonly observed in it .
Such corundum may be scratched by that which is more transparent , though of the same colour .
The latter , ( supposing the degree of purity to be nearly equal , ) may in its turn be scratched by that which is of a purplish red ; and this last , by the corundum of a blue colour ; which is the hardest of all those varieties of this stone that I have distinguished by the name of imperfect corundum .
The hardness of the imperfect corundum of China , and of that from the coast of Malabar , appear to be equal .
This hardness , which is rather inferior to that of the blue corundum of the Carnatic , is however somewhat greater than that of the other varieties .
The perfect corundum of Ceylon of a red colour , or oriental ruby , the hardness of which seems to be nearly the same as that of the imperfect blue corundum , is superior in hardness Kk2 e247 to all the other varieties of the latter kind .
In the perfect corundum of other colours , the hardness is nearly the same as in the red ; that which is of a blue colour , or sapphire , and only that , rather exceeds the others in hardness .
We have just seen , that in the imperfect corundum also , the blue colour was accompanied by a degree of hardness greater than that of the other colours .
This substance emits pretty bright sparks , when struck with a piece of steel ; but they are by no means proportioned to its hardness .
If a piece of flint be struck with the same force , the sparks it produces are more numerous , as well as more bright ; and it is possible to obtain sparks from flint , by a very slight blow , such as would not be sufficient to produce them from perfect corundum .
It is also necessary , in order to obtain sparks from corundum , that the stone should have pretty sharp edges if the part that is struck is obtuse , it is with some difficulty that any sparks can be obtained .
The imperfect corundum , however , has , in this respect , some advantage over the perfect kind .
PHOSPHORESCENCE .
The substance here treated of becomes , like quartz , phosphorescent by collision ; it requires only , in order to exhibit this property , a somewhat stronger degree of friction .
The light which it emits has also less intensity ; and does not appear to be accompanied by the smell which is peculiar to that obtained from quartz .
A very remarkable circumstance may likewise be observed respecting this light .
In all the varieties of this stone which are of a red colour , whether of the imperfect or of the perfect .
kind , or oriental ruby , the light here spoken of is of a very deep fire colour , similar to that of red hot iron , when 14,8 heated to the degree known by the term cherry red .
The sparks which are obtained from this stone by means of a piece of steel , have also some appearance of the above colour .
These phenomena may perhaps serve to assist us in acquiring further knowledge respecting the cause of the phosphorescence of stones , of which we have hitherto had no very satisfactory explanation .
GRAVITY .
The specific gravity of corundum , in its different varieties , presents a series of interesting facts , particularly when they are compared with what has been already observed with respect to its different degrees of hardness .
The great interest I have felt in the study of this substance , has caused me to take particular care in the examination of such of its properties as might lead to a perfect knowledge of it .
I will now state the results of the observations with which the character now treated of has furnished me .
Of,3 specimens of the different varieties of imperfect corundum , the mean specific gravity was 3931 .
The lightest was 3875 ; and the heaviest 3981 .
Six of the 33 were above 3900 .
Eleven were between 39oo and 393 1 and the remaining sixteen were above 39 1 , which , as I have already stated , was the mean proportion .
The mean specific gravity of the perfect red corundum , as determined by 2o specimens of oriental ruby , was 3977 .
The lightest of these was 3933 .
Five of the specimens were above 4000 .
One alone was as high as 4087 ; it was of a deep red colour , was perfectly transparent , and had been cut .
Sixteen different specimens of sapphire , gave a mean specific gravity of 4ol6 .
The lightest was 3907 ; it had scarcely any colour , and was nearly opaque .
The heaviest was as high as 4161 ; this was of a beautiful deep blue colour , and was very transparent .
Three of the 16 were above 41oo .
The inferences which I think myself warranted to draw from the results of the above-mentioned trials , are , i. That the specific gravity of the imperfect corundum is always less considerable than that of the perfect kind .
2 .
That this gravity varies according to the degree of perfection of the crystallization ; and , consequently , according as the stone is more or less transparent .
3 .
That , in general , the corundum of a blue colour , whether of the perfect or the imperfect kind , is of a greater specific gravity than that of any other colbur .
What is here stated respecting the specific gravity of the different kinds of corundum , is exactly analogous to what has been already mentioned respecting their various degrees of hardness .
CRYSTALLINE FORMS .
The primitive form of corundum , whatever may be its degree of perfection , is a rhomboid slightly acute ; the obtuse angles of the planes measuring 94 ?
, and the acute ones 86 ? .
( See Plate VI .
Fig. i. ) The description of the crystalline forms will be more easily and more clearly understood , by considering ( as I shall constantly do in what follows ) this rhomboid as being formed by the union of two triedral pyramids , united at their bases ; the solid angle of the summit will then be formed by the meeting of three of the more acute angles ; and its measure , taken upon one of its edges , and in the middle of the opposite face , will be very nearly 95 ? ?
30 ' .
Whatever the form of the crystals of this substance are , they may always , by dividing them , be ultimately brought to the rhomboid here spoken of ; and , when they are broken , such of the fragments as are made in the direction of the laminae , very often present the same rhomboid , in a very regular form .
Indeed , it is the only method of obtaining this crystal , in the imperfect corundum ; for , among all the crystals of that kind of corundum which have been sent from the East Indies , not one has yet presented its primitive form .
With respect to the perfect corundum , I have been more fortunate ; as , besides several fragments which exhibited this rhomboid very exactly , I have found four of these primitive crystals perfectly defined .
One of them is a sapphire , and is in the collection of Sir JOHN ST .
AUBYN ; the three others are oriental rubies , and are in the collection of Mr. GREVILLE .
First Modfcation .
The summit of the pyramid , ( as very frequently happens in calcareous spar , and in most of the stones which have a rhomboid for their primitive form , ) is often replaced by a plane which is perpendicular to the axis .
This plane then makes , with those of the rhomboid , an angle which differs very little from 122 ? ?
30 ' ; and , as the extent of the plane is more or less considerable , it often causes great difference in the appearance of the crystals .
Sometimes it does not descend so low upon the faces of the rhomboid , as to reach their small diagonal .
( Fig. 2 .
) At other times , it exactly reaches to the diagonal .
( Fig. 3 .
) And , very often , it descends more or less below it .
( Fig. 4 ) .
This last variety is frequently met with in the perfect red corundum , or oriental ruby .
I also know four instances of this form in the sapphire .
The variety shown in Fig. g is rather scarce ; but that of Fig. 2 is the most rare of the whole .
I have likewise observed the two last , among some small crystals of imperfect corundum from China , which were pretty transparent .
Second Modification .
At other times , the edges of the base of the primitive rhomboid are each of them replaced by a single plane , which is parallel to the axis , and which , when its extent is rather considerable , separates the two pyramids by a hexaedral prism with rhombic planes .
I have never seen this modification with complete pyramids , as it is represented in Fig. 5 , but I have often observed it combined with the preceding modification .
This combination is not unfrequently met with in the oriental ruby , in which , the two varieties represented in Figs. 3 and 4 are found with a small beginning of a prism , as is shown in Figs. 6 and 7 .
There are also in the collection of Sir JOHN ST .
AUBYN , two crystals of sapphire , belonging to the same variety , one of which is tolerably regular in its form ; but it is much more common to find these crystals with prisms of rather greater length , as is represented in Figs. 8 and g. In Mr. GREVILLE'S collection also , there is contained a crystal of a pretty large size , and very perfect , in which the plane that has replaced the solid angle of the summit of the pyramid is very small , as in Fig. -o .
All these varieties , but particularly those represented in Figs. 8 and 9 , are likewise found among the small transparent crystals of imperfect corundum brought from China .
When the decrease produced by the plane which has replaced the solid angle of the summit of the rhomboid , has begun to take place nearly at the same time with , or even previous to , that which gives rise to the planes which replace the edges of the base , ( as is indicated by the length of the sides of the prism , ) it often happens that there remains no trace of the planes of the primitive rhomboid : the crystal is then a regular hexaedral prism .
( Fig. 11 .
) This variety , which is very common in the perfect corundum of a red or of a blue colour , is also common in the imperfect kind ; it is indeed , in certain districts , particularly in the Carnatic , almost the only form that is met with .
In all these crystals , the prism here spoken of differs considerably in its length ; sometimes it is very much elongated ; at other times it is very short , as is represented in Fig. 12 .
Third Modification .
The primitive rhomboid is frequently observed to have undergone , in its crystalline lamina , a decrease at those flat angles which rest upon the common base .
This decrease occasions , in each of the pyramids of the rhomboid , six new planes equally inclined , which thereby render the pyramids enneaedral , ( as is seen in Fig , 2o , ) and which , when this modification is perfect , ( that is to say , when the planes belonging to it have destroyed every trace of the primitive rhomboid , ) change the crystal into a dodecaedron , formed by the union , base to base , of two hexaedral pyramids with isosceles triangular faces , as in Fig. 13 .
At present , I shall only take notice of the pyramidal form of these crystals , without paying any attention to the inclination of the faces of the pyramids ; for we shall see , at the end of this modification , that the decrease which occasions it is subject to considerable variation , changing , at the same time , the inclination the faces of the pyramids have to each other .
It very rarely happens that we find this dodecaedron perfectly complete , that is to say , with each of its pyramids terminating in a single point , by the exact meeting of all its faces .
I know only one instance of this form , which I met with in a small sapphire , that I have placed in the collection of Mr. GREVILLE .
There are indeed two specimens , nearly similar to the above , in the collection of Sir JOHN ST .
AUBYN ; but two of the opposite faces of their pyramids have increased to a greater degree than the others , which renders them cuneiform .
It is much more common to find the crystals of this modification combined with the first , and consequently having the solid angle of their summits replaced by a plane .
Sometimes this new plane is very small , as is shown in Fig. 14 .
At other times , it is more considerable , as in Fig. 15 .
The above varieties are less common in the red perfect corundum , or oriental ruby , than in the blue perfect corundum , or sapphire , of which it is the most usual crystalline form , and in which , the plane that has replaced the summits of the pyramids is frequently very small .
These varieties are likewise often found among the crystals of imperfect corundum of China ; but it is very rare , on account of the irregularity of their surface , to meet with them perfectly defined .
They are met with in a much more perfect state , among the crystals from the coast of Malabar ; some of these indeed are so perfect , that , were it not for their reddish colour , they would certainly be taken for very beautiful sapphires , One of these crystals , which is in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , is more than an inch in length .
Another , which is cuneiform , and has one of its pyramids broken , is above two inches long .
In the crystals of imperfect corundum from the Carnatic , I have never met with any thing more than very slight traces or elements of this pyramidal form .
There frequently remain upon the crystals belonging to these varieties , particularly when the terminal faces are of a pretty 5I eonsiderable size , more or less evident traces of the planes of the primitive rhomboid ; as appears by small isosceles triangular planes , of greater or less extent , situated upon three of the alternate solid angles , formed by the meeting of the terminal faces with those of the pyramid .
( Fig. 16 .
) It very often happens , in this modification , that the plane which has replaced the solid angle of the summit , acquires a more considerable increase in one of the pyramids than in the other ; and indeed , most commonly , this increase is such as to cause the pyramid entirely to disappear .
The crystal then becomes a simple hexaedral pyramid , which is either complete , as in Fig. 17 , Plate VII .
( but this very rarely happens , ) or has its summit more or less replaced .
( Fig. 18 , A. ) This variety , which is very common in the crystals of perfect corundum , is also frequently met with in those of the imperfect corundum from China ; and it is very usual to see , upon the solid angles of its terminal faces , small isosceles triangles , which are occasioned by the preservation of some parts of the planes of the primitive rhomboid ; ( Fig. 19 .
) but they are seldom so regular in their form as they are represented in the figure .
I have often seen small crystals of oriental ruby that exhibited a very pretty variety , as they showed , at the same time , the primitive rhomboid with its summit strongly replaced , and the incipient change to the form of the hexaedral pyramid which constitutes this third modification : this variety is represented in Fig. 20 .
There are , in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , two very perfect crystals of this form .
The second modification , that in which the pyramids of the primitive rhomboid are separated by an intermediate hexaedral prism , is often combined with the abovementioned union of LI g55 the first and third modifications .
There exists , for example , in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , an oriental ruby , which exhibits the variety shown in Fig. 20 , with the rudiments of an intermediate prism , as is seen in Fig. 1 .
This variety is also sometimes found among the small transparent crystals of imperfect corundum from China .
In four other crystals , also in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , the prism is very much elongated ; and the plane which has replaced the solid angle of the summit of the pyramid is much more extended , as in Fig. 22 .
These crystals , which are oriental rubies , are in perfect preservation at their two extremities .
There is besides , in the same collection , another crystal , also an oriental ruby , which differs from the preceding , in having no traces left of the planes of the primitive rhomboid .
The crystal , consequently , appears to be a regular hexaedral prism , with the edges of its terminal faces bevelled .
( Fig. 23 .
) In five others , the pyramid has made more progress ; and , in all of them are to be seen , on their terminal faces , some slight traces of the primitive rhomboid .
( Fig. 24 .
) Lastly , in one other specimen , the pyramid is nearly complete , as in Fig. 25.I also know two sapphires , which exhibit an intermediate variety , between the two last-mentioned forms .
One of the most striking characters of corundum is , the great variety exhibited by this pyramidal modification , in the inclination of the faces of the pyramids to the axis of the crystal , and , consequently , in the more or less rapid decrease that has taken place in the crystalline laminaa , at the plane angles situated on the common base of the two pyramids which compose the primitive rhomboid .
Among the crystals of imperfect corundum , from the different districts in which this substance -256 has been hitherto found , which form part of Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , and are sufficiently perfect to admit of being measured with accuracy , there is one , of which the solid angle at the summit , taken in the middle of two of the opposite pyramidal faces , is 50 ?
; two of 4o of wo of 5 ; nine of 24 ?
; and seven of 12e .
Among the pyramidal crystals of oriental ruby are , one of 5 ?
0 ; one of 40 ?
; four of 30o ; one of 24 ?
; and four of 12 .
In the sapphire there are , one of 50 ?
; two of 40 ?
; one of 35 ?
; two of 30 ?
; one of 24 ; and two of 1e ? .
If to these measures we add those of two sapphires , and of two oriental rubies , in the collection of Sir JOHN ST .
AUBYN , we shall also have 58 ?
and 20 ?
; and we may consequently state , from our present knowledge respecting this substance , that it admits no less than eight different decrements of the iamine , at the same angle of the base ; each of which produces a pyramidal modification .
And the measure of the solid angle of their summits , ( considering the pyramids as complete , and supposing at the same time that the very great care I have taken has prevented me from committing any error , ) are 58 ?
, 509 4o ?
,35 ?
, 30 ? ?
24 ?
, 20 ?
, and This difference in the inclination of the faces of the pyramids , in the corundum of a pyramidal form , often appears in a very striking manner in the same crystal .
I have frequently met with oriental rubies , and also with sapphires , in which the faces of the pyramids , after having for some time preserved a certain degree of inclination , evidently appeared to have changed it , in * In Figs. 8 A , 18 B , and 8 C , are represented this simple pyramidal modification , having 580 , 350 , and z2 ?
, for the measures of the solid angle of the summit of the pyramid from these figures , it will be easy to form an idea of the appearance of those crystals which have the other measures above enumerated .
order to assume another ; this change caused the crystal to terminate by a pyramid less sharp ; and , in many instances , it was evident that it had happened several times successively .
These variations do not always take place in a regular order in the same crystal ; for it very often happens , that some of the faces have undergone two , three , or even four changes of inclination , while others have not undergone so many ; and sometimes , indeed , have not undergone any at all .
I have seen some of these crystals , of which the irregularity was such that , upon some of the faces , the degree of inclination was changed from a greater to a less ; a circumstance which necessarily formed a depressed angle , and thereby produced a very irregular and even deformed shape , in the crystal itself .
Among the very small number of crystals from the Carnatic which show any disposition to assume the pyramidal form , I particularly observed one , in which this irregularity in the mode of decrease is very remarkable .
This crystal , on three of its adjacent sides , appears to be a regular hexaedral prism ; but , from nearly the middle of two others , also adjacent , it becomes pyramidal , and of that modification in which the solid angle of the summit is of 50 ?
; and , from about one-third of the remaining side , it also assumes a pyramidal inclination , but of that modification in which the solid angle of the summit is of 40 ? .
This crystal , which is represented in Fig. 26 , is preserved in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection .
These pyramidal modifications also very frequently demonstrate , by the great number of transverse strie which are on their faces , and which sometimes resemble the steps of a staircase , the irregularity with which their decrements have taken place .
Fourth Modefication .
The primitive rhomboid sometimes unfergoes , in those acute angles which contribute to the formation 2s.8 of the solid angle of the summit , a decrease much more rapid than that we have already mentioned , when speaking of the first modification .
This decrease replaces the solid angle by three new planes ; which planes , if they were to become of such extent as to cause the primitive faces of the rhomboid to disappear , would occasion a secondary obtuse rhomboid , that would have considerable analogy , in the measure of its angles , with that rhomboid of calcareous spar which is called lenticular ; that is to say , the solid angle of its summit would measure about 139 ?
; and the plane angles of its rhombs i14 ?
and 660 .
I have not yet met with this rhomboid perfectly formed ; but it exists , or at least one of its halves , in a very well defined state , at the summit of a simple pyramid , eight or nine lines in height , the solid angle of which summit measures 12 ?
; it is represented in Fig. 27 .
The great number of striae , parallel to the small diagonals of the primitive rhombic planes , with which the faces of the secondary rhomboid are covered , prevent me from being perfectly certain respecting the accuracy of the measures I have just stated ; but , if they are not strictly exact , they must at least be very nearly so .
The crystal I have just described is from the coast of Malabar , and is in Mrh GREVILLE'S collection .
The planes of the secondary rhomboid are slightly chatoyant .
Fifth Modification .
Another mode of decrease , of a similar kind , but still more rapid , sometimes takes place at the same solid angle of the summit of the primitive rhomboid .
The triedral pyramid which replaces this angle , is then much less elevated than in the preceding modification .
When it is complete , that is to say , when there remains no trace of the planes of the primitive rhomboid , the crystal becomes changed into a 259 new rhomboid , which is much more obtuse than the former one .
( Fig. 28 .
) The rhombic planes have 17 ?
, for the measure of their obtuse angles ; and 63 ?
, for the measure of their acute ones .
The solid angle of the summit of the pyramid is very nearly 1500 ?
o ' ; consequently , the angle formed by the meeting of the bases is about 29 ? ?
30'.* There are , in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , two oriental rubies which exhibit this rhomboid completely formed ; its planes are deeply striated , in the direction of the decrease ; a circumstance which is very common in all planes that are the result of a rapid decrease , or in which the edges of the laminae last deposited , deviate considerably from the edges of those which were already formed .
There are also , in the same collection , two perfect hexaedral prisms of corundum from the Carnatic , in which this modification shows itself by small isosceles triangular planes , situated upon three of the alternate solid angles of each extremity .
( Fig. 29 .
) These planes may easily be distinguished After having , in this substance , met with a secondary rhomboid that exactly agree , with one of those belonging to calcareous spar , ( although the planes which produce it are differently situated upon the primitive crystal , ) it appeared to me very extraordinary to meet with a second , which had exactly the same proportions as another of the obtuse rhomboids of the abovementioned substance .
In fact , there exists in calcareous spar , a rhomboid much more obtuse than that which RoME ' DE LISLE named lejzticular , ( called equiaxe by the Abbe HAUY , ) of which the measures are exactly the same as those which have just been assigned to the rhomboid of corundum ; but there is the following difference between them , viz. in calcareous spar , this rhomboid is the result of a decrease along the edges of the pyramid belonging to the primitive rhomboid ; whereas , in corundum , it is the result of a decrease at the angles which contribute to the formation of the solid angle of the summit .
This modification of calcareous spar has not yet been described ; but , indeed , the same thing may be said of many other modifications of that substance , from those belonging to the primitive rhomboid : first , by their inclination , which is very different , as they make , at their meeting with the edges of the prism , an angle of io1 ?
, whereas the others make an angle of 147 ? ?
30 ' .
Secondly , they are usually very deeply striated ; a circumstance which rarely occurs in the others .
Of the two crystals I have just described , one is nine lines in diameter , and six lines in height ; it is also slightly transparent at the edges .
The other is much smaller , more transparent , and of a purplish red colour , but rather pale .
It is one of the purest specimens of imperfect corundum , particularly of that from the Carnatic , I have ever seen .
There are frequently observed , in the small prisms of imperfect corundum , some traces of the planes above described ; they may in general be easily known by their strie .
I have also seen crystals in which were united , at the same time , traces of the two secondary rhomboids of the fourth and fifth modifications , in the manner represented in Fig. 3o .
Sixth Modification .
There also appears to exist , in this substance , a third rhomboid , which is much more obtuse than either of the two preceding ones ; at least it is only to such a modification that I can refer several crystals , both prismatic and pyramidal , of imperfect corundum , which made part of a parcel lately sent to Mr. GREVILLE , from the district of Ellore , in the northern part of the government of Madras .
Among these crystals are many hexaedral prisms , of a perfectly regular form , which have their terminal faces inclined in a contrary direction , so as always to make , upon the edges of the prism on which they incline , angles of ioo ?
and 80 ? .
( Fig. 31 .
Plate VIII .
) These terminal faces appear to me to belong to a very obtuse rhomboid , of which , the acute angles of the rhombic planes would , IDCCCII .
Mm 261 be 60 ? ?
46 ' ; the obtuse ones 119i 14 ' ; and the solid angle of the summit 165 ? .
The crystal I have just described , would then be nothing more than the prismatic modification , combined with that which occasions this rhomboid ; at both extremities of which , one of the faces of each of the obtuse triedral pyramids , belonging to the new rhomboid , would have acquired ( in a contrary direction with respect to its extremities ) such an increase as would cause the other faces to disappear .
These two faces , having now become the terminal ones of the hexaedral prism , ,would in fact make , with those edges of the prism on which they would incline , angles of loo ?
and 8o ? .
This very obtuse rhomboid would be the result of a decrease analogous to the two preceding ones , but still more rapid .
Many pyramidal crystals of this kind of corundum , present such inclined terminal faces ; but with a difference , in the measure of their angles , conformable to the inclination of the edges of the pyramids .
Seventb Modification .
The primitive rhomboid of this substance also undergoes sometimes , though very rarely , a decrease at those acute angles which rest upon the base ; and this decrease is such , that it replaces each of the solid angles of this same base , by a plane which is parallel to the axis of the rhomboid .
If this modification were complete , it would give rise to a regular hexaedral prism , which would differ from the prism of the second modification , in having its sides corresponding with the solid angles of the base of the rhomboid ; whereas the sides of the other correspond with the edges of the said base .
I know this modification only by a single crystal , which is in the collection of Mr. GREVILLE ; in it is combined the modification here spoken of with the three first .
This crystal , which is of perfect red corundum , or oriental ruby , is almost exactly similar to that represented in Fig. t2 , and indeed only differs from it by the prism being dodecaedral , as in Fig. 32 .
Eighth Modification .
I am also acquainted with this modification only by a single crystal .
This crystal , which is a sapphire .
of a beautiful deep blue colour , is likewise in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection .
Its form is a simple hexaedral pyramid , which is almost complete , and has 24 ?
for the measure of the solid angle of its summit .
Each of its six edges are replaced by a very narrow plane , which is equally inclined upon the two faces that are adjacent to it .
This renders the pyramid dodecaedral , with broad and narrow faces alternately , as in Fig. 3 .
Three of these new planes appear to me to be occasioned by a decrease , which has taken place at the obtuse plane angles that rest upon the base of the rhomboid , but which differs from those which occasion pyramidal modifications , and is of such a nature that ( the new planes to which it gives rise being in pairs , and on the same level , ) each of the solid angles of the base is replaced only by a single plane .
The three others appear to me to be caused by a decrease at the acute plane angles that rest upon the base ; but this decrease differs from that of the seventh modification , in being more rapid , and in having the planes to which it gives rise inclined upon the axis of the crystal .
The three latter planes have the following peculiarity , viz. their inclination is exactly equal to that of the three others ; so that , if the two modifications which are united together in this crystal were complete and separate , they would produce two acute rhomboids , perfectly similar to each other .
FRACTURE AND TEXTURE .
I have already observed , that all the stones which compose the various kinds of this substance , to which I have given the general name of corundum , have a lamellated texture , in a direction parallel to the faces of a rhomboid of 96g and 84 ?
; and also , that they break in a direction parallel to the said faces .
The blue variety of perfect corundum , or sapphire , follows the above law , as well as all the other varieties .
It is true , however , as I have already had occasion to mention , that the ease with which the crystals of this substance may be divided , is very various ; but observation shows , at the same time , that these variations are governed , in the first place , by the degree of force existing in the attraction of the molecules which com-r pose the crystals , as well as by the perfect adhesion of the crystalline laminae ( composed of these molecules ) at all points of their surface ; two facts , the existence of which is shown by the difference in the degrees of hardness and transparency of this stone , and which appears to be very considerable .
In the second place , the variations here spoken of seem also to depend very much upon the colour these stones possess ; for , as I have already observed , they must be governed by the force of attraction , which , in my opinion , varies with the colour .
This force appears to exist in the highest degree , in the perfect corundum of a blue colour , or sapphire ; it being with great difficulty that this kind of corundum can be broken , in the direction of its laminae , in such a manner that its fracture shall present that even surface , and that kind of gloss , which fractures made in the above direction generally exhibit .
It may be broken with equal ease in any other direction ; for instance , in a direction perpendicular to the axis of the crystal ; but , in this last case , the fractures by no means possess such characters as might cause them to be taken for fractures made in the direction of the laminae ; they are always unequal , and partially conchoid .
I will even confess , that -I have not yet succeeded in breaking a sapphire , according to the direction of its laminas , in a satisfactory manner .
But that which art is not able to perform , is executed by nature : for , besides such sapphires as , upon their terminal faces , retain complete traces of the planes of the primitive rhomboid , I have frequently met with sapphires , both of the prismatic modification and the pyramidal one , in which there were , upon the said faces , one or more fractures , made exactly in the direction of the lamine ; and it was necessary to examine them with great attention , in order not to mistake them for true planes , representing those of the primitive rhomboid.* This kind of fracture is obtained with greater ease in the perfect red corundum , or oriental ruby ; and still more easily , in the imperfect corundum .
The latter presents , in this respect , a less degree of resistance , in proportion as it is less transparent , and has less colour .
This character , however , is subject to great variation : there exist some specimens of this stone , in which such fractures as are here described may be made almost as easily as in calcareous spar ; whereas , in others , they are obtained with much more difficulty .
I have even seen some pieces which might be broken , with almost as much ease , in a direction contrary to that of the laminae , as in the direction of the lamine ; but it most frequently happens , in this case , that the fracture , although made in the natural direction , has not the evenness such fractures usually have , but presents some irregularities , and likewise some conchoidal parts : this remark , however , applies only to such pieces as approach nearly to perfection , with respect to transparency .
There may frequently be observed , in these stones , a character which serves to confirm what I have said respecting the imperfection sometimes observed in their crystallization , which appears to me to arise principally from a want of absolute contact between all the parts of their crystalline laminae .
When some of the faces of the crystals correspond to those of the primitive rhomboid , whether these Ifaces are natural ones or are produced by fracture , the edges of the crystalline laminae are shown upon them , and sometimes very plainly , by lines which cross each other , in such a manner as to form rhombs of 96 ?
and 84 ? .
This character even becomes of great use in this substance , as it serves to distinguish , in fragments , ( which are generally of hexaedral prisms , that being the most common form , ) those faces which are occasioned by fracture , from those which correspond to the terminal faces of the prism .
These last , also , frequently exhibit lines , which are likewise caused by the edges of the crystalline lamina ; but , as they extend to three only of the alternate angles of the terminal hexagonal face , they trace on it , by crossing each other , either equilateral triangles , or rhombs of 60 ?
and 120 ? .
Figs. 34 , A , and 34 , B , represent these two different appearances ; the first upon the planes of the rhomboid ; the second upon the terminal faces .
As it is by no means uncommon , in corundum , ( in the same manner as is observed in the beryl , ) to meet with elongated prisms , formed merely by the connection or contact of several prisms at their terminal faces , it frequently happens that these prisms , after being separated from each other , exhibit , upon the terminal faces which were in contact , a polish or lustre that might easily cause those faces to be taken for fractures , in a direction perpendicular to the axis .
But this appearance is an illusion we must guard against : for , if we endeavour to make any fractures at the extremities of these crystals , they will take place , as usual , upon three of the alternate solid angles ; and we shall find it impossible to succeed in making any fractures perpendicular to the axis , except such as are extremely irregular , and exhibit an appearance very different from that exhibited by natural ones .
It sometimes happens also , that , by means of the above connection , as well as by some causes of compression , which must necessarily have been frequent with respect to crystals enclosed in their matrix , in the manner those of felspar are enclosed in granite or porphyry , that the terminal faces have varied from their natural position , and have assumed another , which inclines more or less upon the sides of the prism .
We must , however , distinguish these accidental varieties , from those crystals in which such an inclination really belongs to the mode of crystallization , and which I have already described , in speaking of the sixth modification .
In this latter case , the inclination of the terminal faces is constantly the same ; whereas , in the accidental case here treated of , it varies considerably .
There exists also , in this substance , and even among the same crystals , ( when hexaedral prisms , ) not only of imperfect 267 corundum but likewise of the perfect kind , of all colours , ano , there accidental variety , which is particularly met with when their irregularity and their opacity announce a want of perfection in their crystallization .
Sometimes the edges of the crystalline laminae may be perceived upon their terminal faces ; and , there being more or less distance between them , they exhibit very much the appearance of an irregularity , or a kind of disturbance , in those laminae which seem to have been deposited upon these faces , and in a direction parallel to them .
But , with a little attention , we may perceive that these laminae , the edges of which are in the direction of three of the alternate solid angles of this extremity of the crystal , can only belong to the laminae deposited upon the faces of the primitive rhomboid ; and , we are very often able , at the same time , to discover their degree of inclination .
A third circumstance attending these crystals , and one which it is more difficult to explain , consists in the appearance of concentric hexagons , parallel to the hexagon formed by the exterior edges of the crystal .
These hexagons may sometimes be observed upon the terminal faces , as is shown in Fig. $5 .
Their edges have a degree of thickness very perceptible by the eye ; and may besides be frequently distinguished from each other , by a difference in their transparency , and sometimes also by a greater or less intensity in their colour .
There are preserved , in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , amongst a pretty large number of crystals in which this circumstance has taken place , two crystals of imperfect corundum from the coast of Malabar , that exhibit it in a very striking manner .
In the first of them , one only of these hexagons , placed at nearly an equal distance from the centre and the edges of the terminal face , is of a blue colour , while all the rest of this face is gray , slightly tinged with red , and chatoyant .
( Fig. 36 .
) In the other , the last concentric hexagon alone , or that which at the same time forms the exterior part of the crystal , is ( for the thickness of about half a line ) of a blackish-brown colour , dull and opaque ; while the rest of the terminal face ( which likewise exhibits concentric hexagons ) is of a gray colour , but has a silvery hue , because this part of the stone is catoyant .
( Fig. 37 .
) The above circumstance seems to announce a deposition of lamint upon the sides of the hexaedral prism ; nevertheless , if we attempt to break these crystals according to that direction , we find that it is absolutely impossible to succeed , in such a way as to obtain a fracture that has the appearance of being made in the natural joints of the stone ; whereas , on the contrary , fractures may be made with sufficient ease , in a direction corresponding to the faces of the primitive rhomboid .
Notwithstanding these concentric hexagons , there may be sometimes perceived , upon the same terminal faces of the prism , traces of the edges of the lamina already mentioned ; and the crystal then exhibits the appearance represented in Fig. 38 .
As the real direction of the laminae ( which is shown in these crystals by their natural fractures ) indicates that the rhomboid of 96 ?
and 84 ?
is the primitive form of this substance , it seems necessarily to exclude the other direction , of the existence of which ( as we have seen ) there is some appearance , and which would give the hexaedral prism , as the form of the primitive crystal .
The above appearance , however , is certainly owing to a particular cause ; but it seems to me , that the laws hitherto established in crystallography , are by no means capable of furnishing one t-at can account for it in a satisfactory manner .
The only ADCCCII .
N n explanation of the circumstance -which occurs to me , does not agree with the idea we have formed respecting those laws ; but the circumstance itself may be perfectly explained by it .
It is founded upon a supposition that the primitive rhomboid may have passed , very nearly at the time the crystallization began , to the form determined by the combination of the two modifications which produce the hexaedral prism , and that , in consequence of a law not yet acknowledged , the sides of the prism may have become , at the very moment of their formation , a new centre of attraction , for the regular deposition of a part of the crystalline molecules .
This supposition , however , would require another , but which perhaps may be fairly considered as nothing more than a consequence of the former , namely , that the mutual attraction of the molecules situated upon these secondary faces , is more strong than that which exists in the same way between those upon the primitive ones .
This stronger degree of attraction between the molecules on one of the faces of a crystal than between those of the other , is already admitted ; so that it may rather be considered here , as giving rise to an additional observation , than as affording matter for discussion .
I am perfectly sensible of , and make no scruple to allow , every objection that may be made against this explanation , to arrive at which , I have been obliged to make a supposition not yet admitted ; but the fact itself exists , and seems naturally to lead to the explanation I have given .
I offer it , however , merely as a hypothesis , which still requires the support of observation ; and I shall only add , that it is not the first time that the study of crystals has led me to form such an idea .
With respect to the cause which , notwithstanding the abovenmentioned mode of crystallization , would still occasion the frac'270 ture to have the same direction as if the increase of the crystal had been produced by a deposition on the faces of the primitive rhomboid , it may , I think , be explained by supposing that , in this case , the elements of the crystallization might already be real , though small , secondary crystals , for instance , small hexaedral prisms ; and that the fracture would then be nothing more than the result of the sum of all the partial fractures of each of thbem .
PHENOMENA WITH RESPECT TO LIGHT .
The prismatic crystals of corundum , as well as the pyramidal ones , when their extremities are terminated by faces which are perpendicular to their axes , very frequently have those terminal faces chatoyant .
This property is the natural effect of the *I had finished writing this Paper , when Mr. GREVILLE had the curiosity to cause one of the hexaedral prisms of imperfect corundum , from the coast of Malabar , the terminal faces of which exhibited the concentric hexagons above spoken of , to be cut transversely .
This section showed a very interesting fact , and one that adds some probability to what I have said respecting the cause which produces this phenomenon .
One of the parts of this crystal ( which crystal is sawed into three , and polished , ) exhibits the appearance represented in Fig. 38 , A. The whole substance of this segment is of a pale purplish-red colour ; but there is , in its centre , a triangular spot , similar to that represented in the above figure , which indicates very clearly that the section was made below the summit of the primitive rhomboid , and perpendicularly to its axis .
This spot is also of a purplishl-red colour , but much more deep than the rest of the crystal , and therefore strikes the eye very forcibly .
It is only to be perceived uppn one of the terminal faces ; the other terminal face does not show the smallest trace of it .
There may , however , be perceived at its centre , a hexagonal plane , nearly as large as that represented surrounding the spot in Fig. 38 , A ; it is of a different colour from the other part of the substance of this segment , being of a dirty gray .
The spot is also seen , but of a smaller size , upon the terminal face corresponding to the segment taken from the top of the preceding ; but there are not any traces of it upon the other terminal face .
NI reflection of light , in the small intervals which remain between the small crystalline laminae , in those parts where these laminate are not in perfect contact ; it is necessary , therefore , that the crystal , or fragment , which possesses this property , should be in the state most favourable to its developement .
On this account , it must not be completely transparent ; there being , in that case , too perfect a contact between the laminee ; so that the light , not meeting with any medium to reflect it , but being entirely refracted , cannot occasion any appearance of the property here spoken of .
Neither must the crystal , or fragment , be quite opaque ; it being necessary that the light , in order to undergo the reflection which produces this pleasing phenomenon , should at least be able to pass through the exterior laminae of that part of the crystal against which it strikes .
The above circumstances are , in fact , those which appear to take place with respect to corundum .
The imperfect corundum of the Carnatic , the crystals of which are generally more or less opaque , show no trace of this property upon their terminal faces ; whereas , it is frequently observed upon the terminal faces of the crystals of imperfect corundum from China , and also of that from the coast of Malabar , because those crystals generally possess a slight degree of semi-transparency .
This character is still more common in the perfect corundum , whether sapphire or oriental ruby .
There is not , however , the smallest appearance of it , when these stones possess the beautiful transparency belonging to them in their highest degree of perfection ; whereas , on the contrary , it is frequently seen to take place in a very lively and brilliant manner , in such of the stones as have an inferior degree of transparency .
It rarely happens , that the crystals of perfect corundum are prevented by opacity from exhibitaing the property here treated of ; but , as I have already said , the terminal faces which , by their position , replace the solid angles of the summit of the primitive rhomboid , are absolutely the only ones which can in any degree possess it : no appearance of it can be seen in any other part .
This is not surprising ; for , as the effect here spoken of proceeds from the reflection of light , in the spaces between the crystalline laminxe , the plane which may be considered as produced by a section which would expose the edges of all these laminae , must necessarily be the most proper to occasion it .
This effect also takes place when the crystals are broken , by chance , in a direction more or less approaching to that which is parallel to the abovementioned plane , notwithstanding the fracture then exhibits a very rugged appearance .
It even happens sometimes , that this fracture is such that the edges of the laminie protrude , in the manner observed in the fibres of wood when it is broken across the grain ; yet the property here treated of is not less evident ; and , in this last case , it is often very distinctly seen proceeding from between the laminae .
To the above property must also be referred , that beautiful reflection of light , in the form of a star with six rays , which is frequently given , by cutting , to oriental rubies , sapphires , &amp;c. and which causes those stones to be then called by the name of star-stones .
The manner of cutting which brings the perfect corundum into this state is , most commonly , on the part of the lapidary , rather the result of chance , than the consequence of any determined theory respecting the cause of the effect he means to produce .
Accordingly , in the greater number of the stones which have this property , the point from whence the starry reflection proceeds , instead of being in the middle 273 of the stone , is observed to be situated in a part more or less near to its base ; a circumstance which considerably diminishes the beauty of the star-stone .
The reflection which produces this effect , arises from the same cause as that of which we have already spoken , and proceeds from the same part of the stone ; consequently , when an oriental ruby , or a sapphire , which has the qualities necessary for the purpose , is intended by the lapidary to be formed into a star-stone , he ought to make his section pass below that part of the stone which he has found to correspond with the summit of the primitive rhomboid .
As the kind of cutting most proper to produce this effect in the stone , is that rounded form which is called en cabochon , with as high an ellipsis as is possible , the lapidary ought , at the same time , to take great care that the summit of this ellipsis be situated exactly under the point which corresponds with the summit of the rhomboid ; in that case , the light reflected in the interval of the laminae upon the three edges of the primitive rhomboid , and upon the middle of its three faces , will trace upon the stone , a star , the six rays of which will include the circumference of the rounded part , or ellipsis .
The same effect may also be made to take place on one of the solid angles of the base , but in a much less perfect manner .
I have met with many fragments of sapphires , as well as of oriental rubies , which naturally produced the effect here spoken of , in consequence of their having been broken , by chance , in a manner proper to occasion it ; that is , they were broken , accidentally , in a direction contrary to that of the lamina , and perpendicular to an axis passing through the two summits of the pyramid of the primitive rhomboid ; after which , the fragment had been a little rounded by friction .
274 The imperfect corundum may likewise be cut in such a manner as to produce the starry reflection ; but it is more rare than in the perfect kind , to meet with pieces which have all the qualities requisite for this purpose .
There is , in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , a large piece of imperfect corundum , of a brown colour , which has been cut en cabocbon , with the above-mentioned intention ; but , the cutting not having been made in the proper direction , the starry reflection is exhibited in a very imperfect manner , as it proceeds from a point near the plane of the base of the stone .
The effet produced , however , is sutficient to remove all doubts respecting the existence of the property here spoken of , in this kind of corundum .
CHARACTER AFFORDED BY ANALYSIS .
In order to complete the proofs I have already given , that all the stones which form the subject of this Paper are of one and the same nature , I shall borrow this last mentioned character from the analyses made by Mr. CHENEVIX , which will hereafter be described at length by that able chemist ; and it may be observed , that few instances can be met with where the chemist and the mineralogist , after having jointly employed themselves in their different provinces , upon the same substance , have arrived at a more satisfactory and correspondent result .
According to Mr. CHENEVIX'S analyses , the constituent parts of the various substances here treated of , are as follows .
Silica Alumina Iron Loss Silica Alumina Iron Loss IMPERFECT CORUNDUM .
From the From From Carnatic .
Malabar , China .
5,07,0 5,25 91 , 86,5 86,50 1,54,0 6,5o 2-,5 2,5 1,7 : 100,0 100,0 100,00 PERFECT CORUNDUM .
Blue , or sapphire .
-m -_ 5 , )5 .
92,0 so 1 1 , O 1,75 100,00 From what has been said it appears , that the analogy existing between the stones hitherto known by the names of corundum , sapphire , oriental ruby , oriental hyacinth , &amp;c. is so strong and complete , as no longer to permit us to doubt that they ought all to be considered merely as varieties of the same substance , to which I have therefore given the general name of corundum .
In the learned work on mineralogy which the Abbd HAUY has just published , this celebrated naturalist says , that nearly at the same time I communicated to the Royal Society my first observations on this substance , he had himself observed the existence of corundum , among the crystals of From Ava .
6,5 87,0 45 2,0 100,0 .
Red , or oriental ruby .
7,0 90,0 1,2 1,8 100,0 .
Q76 different substances contained in the sand of Ceylon ; having , as he says , seen the:nein some small hexaedral prisms , of a ruby red colour , and transparent , which , from the analogy that appeared to exist between their external characters and those peculiar to corundum , might very naturally be ranged with that substance .
Some particular circumstances certainly prevented him from making the same observations respecting the pyramidal crystals , of the above colour , which are also found in that sand ; and he consequently thought it right , ( although he appears to have had some doubts upon the subject , ) to continue to separate the sapphire from corundum , giving to the former the name of telesie : indeed he has placed them at a considerable distance from each other , the sapphire being the third species of his second class of stones , and the corundum the fourteenth .
What he seems to consider as the strongest arguments in favour of this separation , are , the laminated texture so evident in all crystals of corundum , and the direction of the lamina being according to the inclination of the faces of a rhomboid ; whereas , in the sapphire , this laminated texture seemed to him not to exist ; and he adds , that the fractures of sapphire appeared to him to follow a direction perpendicular to the long axis of the crystal .
With regard to this , I shall observe , that in the foregoing descriptions of the characters peculiar to this substance , ( which have been given with all the circumstantial detail necessary in a demonstration which is intended to leave no doubt upon the subject , ) the observations of the Abbd HAUY appear to me to have been completely answered .
It has there been stated , that one of the peculiar properties of this stone was , that it always preserved a very distinct laminated texture , in all those varieties wherein the crystallization appeared not to have attained its highest degree of perfection , which varieties I have distinguished by the name of imperfect corundum .
But it has also been stated , that in proportion as the crystallization possessed a greater degree of perfection , the texture exhibited a less laminated appearance ; and that , in this case , it was less easy to obtain a fracture in the real direction of the laminae .
Another circumstance has likewise been taken notice of , which appears to me to deserve some attention , namely , that in all the different varieties of this substance , the blue colour was generally accompanied with a greater degree of transparency , of gravity , and of hardness ; and that , under these circumstances , in proportion as the adhesion of the laminae was more complete , the laminated texture of the stone became less evident , and it was much more difficult , and sometimes scarcely possible , to obtain fractures in the direction of the lamince .
Nevertheless , among crystals and fragments of sapphire which had but a small degree of transparency , I have frequently met with some , in which the laminated texture was as evident as in the red prismatic variety of perfect corundum , or oriental ruby .
With respect to what concerns the fracture of the sapphire , if the Abbe HAUY was not deceived by an illusive appearance by no means rare in this stone , both in its perfect and imperfect state , ( according to which the terminal faces seem to indicate a laminated texture perpendicular to the axis , or a fracture in that direction , ) I cannot account for his thinking that he had obtained such a fracture as he describes .
I have often tried to obtain fractures of that kind , but without success ; never having been able to procure any , except such as were more or less irregular , and exhibited an appearance very different from that of fractures ~78 made in a natural direction .
Moreover , I have examined a great number of crystals of sapphire , many , of which had one of their extreinities , many others both their extremities , broken in a direction approaching more or less to that which is perpendicular to their axes , but have never seen , among these fractures , any one that had the appearance of being made in the natural direction of the lamin'e ; although , at the same time , I have , in many crystals , seen fractures which were perfectly even , and often of considerable extent , in the direction of the planes of a rhomboid , exactly similar ( with respect to the measure of its angles ) to that belonging to the primitive crystal of imperfect corundum .
I have already observed that there sometimes remain , upon the terminal faces of the crystals of sapphire , small facets belonging to the above planes .
I cannot help mentioning also , in this place , a very interesting crystal of sapphire , that is in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection This sapphire , which is of a pale blue colour , is a simple hexaedral pyramid , the solid angle of whose summit measures 40 ?
, and retains upon one of the angles of the summit , which is incomplete , a large triangular facet , belonging to one of the planes of the primitive rhomboid .
This plane is striated transversely , in a manner that shows some derangement in the &lt; crystallization , perhaps from too great rapidity ; and , in the upper part , a still more rapid decrease changes its degree of inclination , causing it to take one which is greater , and which belongs to the secondary obtuse rhomboid already described , in speaking of the fifth modification .
These planes , together , completely terminate the crystal at this extremity , in the manner represented in Fig. 39 .
There may also be observed , two other planes , between Awlvhch is comprehended the plane I have just described as one 0o 9 of those of the primitive rhomboid : they are produced by the passing of the crystal to a less obtuse pyramidal modification .
Corundum is not the first mineral substance that has exhibited , even in its crystallized state , very striking differences , according to the circumstances that have governed its formation , and the greater or less degree of perfection that has taken place in its crystallization .
Felspar is a substance to which the very same remarks may be applied .
In the interior part of most kinds of granite and porphyry , it appears in the form of very rugged crystals , generally opaque ; whereas , in the fissures of primitive rocks , it frequently has a beautiful transparency ; and , when this happens , it rather exceeds the former kind in hardness and in gravity .
This difference , which for a long time prevented the latter kind from being joined with the felspar of granites , is so striking , that most naturalists have thought it right still to continue to separate it , at least as a variety , although they allow it a place in the same genus , under the name of adularia .
There exists also in the same genus ( felspar ) a third variety , which , though it had long been known by the name of white schorl of Dauphiny , was not , till lately , brought into its proper place .
This kind of felspar , which is still more perfect , presents , in such of its crystals as have the greatest degree of transparency , a brilliancy that is even superior to that of the most perfect adularia ; this transparency is less similar to that of glass , and approaches nearer to that which is peculiar to the stones that have been hitherto distinguished by the names of gems or precious stones .
Indeed , it always appeared to me to possess , in general , the two characters of hardness and gravity , in a somewhat greater degree than adularia .
It rather scratches 28o adularia than is scratched by it .
In the division which I usually make of the different kinds of felspar , I distinguish this latter , in consequence of the above-mentioned character , by the name of brilliant felspar .
We shall see hereafter , that there probably exists a fourth variety of felspar , without reckoning that which is known by its greasy aspect .
The fracture of this greasy kind is dull , and resembles that of wax .
It exists , in great quantity , in certain granite rocks , which usually abound with hornblende ; of which rocks there is a great number in Scotland .
In these , it is frequently of a green colour , which gives it exactly the appearance of jade .
This kind of felspar may very probably be a particular kind of substance , nearly allied to one of those ( very different from each other ) to which French mineralogists give : at present the name of petrosilex .
COMPACT CORUNDUM .
We have hitherto seen corundum only in a form more or less perfect or determined ; it is , however , sometimes met with in a state in which there does not appear the smallest rudiments of crystallization .
In this state , ( to express which , mineralogists have agreed to make use of the term compact , ) it resembles , in many respects , a coarse jasper ; but its much greater degree of hardness , and its much higher specific gravity , render its true nature easily distinguishable .
In Mr. GREVIILE'S collection are many specimens of this compact corundum ; they are all of a purplish red colour , not very deep , and are perfectly opaque .
By means of a lens , there 281 may be perceived , here and there , some small particles , in which an incipient laminated texture is discernible .
These particles are rendered visible by the reflection from the lamine ; they are of a beautiful rose colour , and have a slight degree of transparency .
The lens also shows , at the same time , a great number of small globules , of a deep black colour , and of a very brilliant lustre : these globules do not consist of attractable oxide of iron , although that oxide is very common in the substance here treated of ; but , on account of their small size , it has not yet been possible to determine their nature .
The compact corundum of a red colour gives pretty strong sparks , when struck with steel ; it also gives , by collision , the same phosphorescent fiery red light as the other red varieties of corundum , both perfect and imperfect .
The mean specific gravity of compact corundum , taken from three trials , which differed very little from each other , was 3902 .
MATRIX OF IMPERFECT CORUNDUM FROM THE PENINSULA OF INDIA , AND CHIEFLY FROM THE CARNATIC .
This matrix , which , as far as our present knowledge extends , appears to be peculiar to the imperfect corundum of this part of Asia , is a stone of a particular nature : it is sometimes in masses of a loose and granulated texture , with very coarse grains , and pretty much resembles a coarse sand stone ; at other times , it has a closer texture , the grains being nearer each other , and less distinct , so as either to give it an appearance similar to the kind of marble known by the name of coarse-grained saline marble , &gt; or to that kind of prehnite which is composed of a mass of &lt; 8e crystals confusedly aggregated .
In this matrix , the crystals of imperfect corundum are dispersed , in the same manner as those of felspar are dispersed in porphyry , or rather in certain granites which , besides the aggregated constituent parts belonging to that kind of rock , also contain crystals of felspar which are of a more or less considerable size , and of a perfectly determined form .
When this substance is of that texture in which the grains are closely connected together , it is of a pearly gray colour , sometimes slightly tinged with green , and has a degree of semitransparency , not unlike that of calcedony .
If a piece of this kind is moved about in a strong light , its surface shows a considerable number of small brilliant particles .
This appearance arises from the reflection of the light , by the small laminae that are exposed , in consequence of the fracture of the grains of which the stone consists ; and this circumstance proves that it has a laminated texture .
In the last mentioned state , ( the most perfect one in which I have observed this stone , ) its hardness , although sufficient to scratch glass very easily , is rather inferior to that of felspar .
It gives sparks when struck with steel ; and , by means of strong collision , emits a phosphorescent light , of a bluish white colour .
Friction does not produce any signs of electricity .
When put into nitric acid , no effervescence was perceptible .
The specific gravity of this stone , as determined by four trials , which scarcely differed from each other , was 2742 ; but it is difficult to procure pieces of a tolerable size , which are not mixed , either with hornblende , or with particles of corundum .
It is fusible by means of the blowpipe .
This substance is more usually met with in pieces of a coarser texture , in which the grains are often pretty large , so as to be easily distinguishable by the naked eye .
When these pieces are in a perfect state , the grains have exactly the same colour , and the same degree of semi-transparency , as those of the preceding more compact kind .
If examined with a lens , the laminated texture of these grains is very evident ; and there seems to be , at the first view , a very distinct crystal in each of them .
But , if we endeavour to determine the form of any one of these crystals , we find that it is absolutely impossible to do so ; as the greatest part of the small facets we perceive , are nothing more than facets formed by compression .
I thought , indeed , that I could distinguish some traces that indicated an obtuse rhomboid ; but not in such a manner as to permit me to state the fact with certainty .
These grains have but a weak degree of adherence to each other ; in consequence of which , the stone may often be broken by a very slight effort .
It is , however , still more common to meet with this substance in a state wherein it has undergone , at the surface of each of the grains of which it is composed , an incipient decomposition , that gives them a whiter colour , thereby obscuring , and indeed often destroying , that semi-transparency which I mentioned as being a character of this substance , in its two preceding states .
When this is the case , if some pieces of the stone are put into nitric acid , an effervescence soon takes place , the strength of which is in proportion to the degree of decomposition the stone has undergone ; but this effervescence , in a short time , entirely ceases .
It seems , from this circumstance , that the lime contained in the stone , ( which , as will be hereafter seen in the account of its analysis , Mr. CHENEVIX found to amount to 15 parts in ioo , ) being exposed to the action of the air , by the alteration or decomposition of the stone , had afterwards combined with a portion .
of carbonic acid .
To the above mentioned lime , ( carried away by the rains which wash the exposed parts of the rocks composed of this substance , and deposited upon the fragments of corundum scattered at the feet of those rocks , ) ought no doubt to be attributed , that calcareous incrustation which is frequently observed to cover , either partially or entirely , many fragments of imperfect corundum , found among the specimens of that substance sent to us from India .
If we let a piece of this matrix remain for a certain time in nitric acid , it is attacked by it , without being dissolved , and without changing its form ; but if , after being taken out , it is pressed between the fingers , it may be crumbled by a very trifling effort , and may , by being rubbed , be reduced to a sort of paste .
SUBSTANCES WHICH ACCOMPANY THE IMPERFECT CORUNDUM , IN THE ABOVE MENTIONED MATRIX , FROM THE PENINSULA OF INDIA .
Felspar .
There are sometimes found , in the matrix here treated of , pieces , more or less considerable in size , of a laminated substance , which has the same greenish gray colour , the same brilliancy , and , in short , the same appearance , in many respects , as the corundum itself .
It is indeed the more easy to confound this substance with corundum , as it is frequently accompanied with crystals of the latter .
I have myself been several times led into this mistake , before I had paid such particular .
attention as I have since done , not only to corundum , but also to every thing relating to the substances which accompany it .
The most usual colour of this substance , as I have already said , is gray , slightly inclining to green , which is sometimes mixed with a small portion of brown .
It possesses a pretty considerable degre of semi-transparency , which may be compared to that of calcedony , or more properly to that of the stone known by the name of cat 's eye .
Its hardness is inferior to that of quartz ; but appears to be exactly the same as that of felspar .
It gives sparks , when struck by steel ; and , by collision , emits a yellowish phosphorescent light .
Friction does not cause it to give any signs of electricity .
This stone may be divided with great facility , in the direction of two opposite and parallel faces ; and the fractures thereby obtained have a brilliant lustre , exactly resembling that of the fracturs of corundum .
Upon these fractures may be observed ' very fine btut very evident strie , which indicate that the lamina have a direction different from the above ; but I have not yet been able to obtain an even fracture , in the direction of these strie .
All fractures made in any other direction than that first mentioned , are irregular and unequal ; very often also they are dull , and somewhat similar to that of wax .
The mean specific gravity of this substance , taken from four trials , which differed very little from each other , is 2643 .
This substance is fusible by the blowpipe , like common felspar .
The result of the analysis of this substance , made by Mr. CHENEVIX , is , in many respects , similar to that of the analysis of adularia , made by Mr. VAUQULIN ; yet it differs very essentially from that , by the want of potash , and by the proportion of lime being more considerable.* The presence of the lastmentioned earth is sometimes rendered evident , in the parts which are slightly decomposed , by the weak and momentary effervescence that takes place in those parts , when the substance is put into nitric acid .
On the other hand , many of its e atemal characters are such as naturally lead to its being ranged with adularia .
It differs from it , however , in the facility with which the latter may be broken in two different directions ; while , in the substance here treated of , fractures can never be obtained , except in one of those directions ; nor have I ever been able to observe on the fractures of any other kind of felspar , those fine striae which , as I have already said , are very evident on this stone .
It differs also from common felspar , in not being capable of acquiring electric properties by friction ; whereas common felspar may , by long continued friction , be made to acquire such properties .
The semi-transparency of this stone likewise , and the nature of its lustre , are such as give it a greater analogy to gems or precious stones ; and , in these respects , it is very similar to the variety which I have called shining felspar .
As this substance appeared to me to have a great analogy with another , which sometimes , in small fragments , accompanies the perfect corundum in the sand of Ceylon , ( in which , however , they are more rare than corundum itself , ) I desired Mr. CHENEVIX to be so good as to add to the analyses he was about to make , that of these fragments .
The result of his analysis of them differs so little from that afforded by the substance above described , that it strongly confirms the analogy I had supposed to exist between them .
Having been so fortunate as to find , among the few fragments I could collect of the last mentioned substance , three crystals , in which the crystalline form is perfectly determined , I am enabled , by their means , to add the crystalline character of the substance , to those I have given in the foregoing paragraph .
These crystals are rhomboidal tetraedral prisms , ) of about 1oo0 and 80 , the two terminal faces of which are inclined , in a contrary direction , upon the obtuse edges of oo ?
, in such a manner as to make with them , an angle of 1^5 ?
on one side , and one of 75 ?
on the other ; and as , ( in the only three crystals it has .
yet been in my power to examine , ) the planes of the prisms are very nearly equal to the terminal faces , their appearance is exactly that of a rhomboid .
The terminal faces of the crystals s88 here spoken of are chatoyant ; and , in the fragments , the plane which correspond to these faces have a similar property , when held in a proper direction .
In some , these faces then appear of a pearly white colour ; in others , the colour is rather yellowish : some of them reflect a pale blue colour ; in many others , the colour reflected is a beautiful deep sapphire blue , that entirely occupies the whole extent of the face which possesses the property here spoken of .
To this stone ought to be referred , that which is known by the name of moon-stone of Ceylon , when it is not of the kind called cimophane , ( the chrsoberyl of WERNER , ) which is often found also in the sand of this island , mixed with rubies , sapphires , &amp;c. The opinion I am naturally led to adopt , in consequence of the detail I have just given respecting this stone , is , that it most probably is a kind of felspar , and ought to be ranged with that substance , as forming an additional variety , In some of the pieces of this stone , which are found in the same matrix with the imperfect corundum of the Carnatic , a talcy earth ( which often also appears in a separate state ) is interspersed throughout their substance , and causes them to have a less compact texture , and a very nferior degree of hardness. .
The stone , at the same time , acquires a slight greasness .
to the touch , and loses the semi-transparency which is peculiar to it it may still , however , be easily divided , in the direction already described as that in which it is naturally divisible .
Fibrolite .
The substance I have distinguished by this name , which sometimes also accompanies the imperfect corundum from ; the Carnatic , in its matrix , has always offered itself to my observation , either of a white colour , or of a dirty gray .
Its hardness appeared to me to be rather superior to that of quartz ; , as , afte 8S9 having rubbed them together , the latter seemed to be the most worn of the two .
It gives bright sparks , upon being struck with steel .
Collision causes it to emit a phosphorescent light , of a deep reddish colour .
It cannot , by friction , be made to give signs of electricity .
Its mean specific gravity , taken f ?
rom four trials , is 3 14 .
This substance was tried with a blowpipe , by Mr. FLEURIAU DE BELLEVUE , a mineralogist much accustomed to such operations , and found to be alb ; clutely infusible , even when placed , in very minute particles , upon cyanite .
The exteral texture of tflis substance is usually fibrous ; the fibres being very fine , and closely connected together .
When it is broken according to the direction of the fibres , its internal texture appears to be exactly hle same ; but , if it is broken in a direction transverse to the fibres , its texture appears to be compact .
The lustre of the las ; t kind of fracture is rather vitreous ; and there is nothing ; in its appearance that gives reason to think it was made in the direction of the lamina3 .
When we wish to try the hardness of this stone , it should be done in a direction which is transverse or perpeniicular to the fibres ; not in a direction parallel to them .
There exist many pieces of this substance that are merely rregular aggregations , in which the fibres cross each other , in bundles , in different directions .
I have only once seen it in a form which could be considered as a determined one ; viz. a rhomboidal tetraedral prism , of about 80 ?
and loo ?
, the terminal faces of which are imperfect .
But , as this prism , although pretty regular in its form , is the only one I have yet been able to discover , the above observation requires to be repeated , before we can safely make any dependence upon it .
I must however add , that among the pieces of this substance , I have met with several , which appeared to have more or less tendency to the above-mentioned form .
The analysis of this substance , made by Mr. CIHENEVIX , concurs with the whole of its external characters , in warranting us to consider it as being different from any of the mineral substances hitherto known ; in consequence of which , I have thought it right to distinguish it by the name offibrolite .
Thallite .
The substance called thallite ( the epidote of the Abb6 HAUY ) also sometimes accompanies the corundum from the Carnatic , in its matrix .
This substance is found in three distinct states , hitherto unobserved , in all of which its appearance is so different from its usual one , as to have prevented me , for some time , from knowing it .
In one of the above states , this substance is enclosed in the matrix , in small detached masses , from the size of a pea to that of a hazle nut , and even larger .
Its usual colour is either a brownish green or a yellowish green ; and it has only a slight degree of semi-transparency , even at the edges .
Its hardness is the same as that of the other known kinds of thallite , which I have always found to be rather superior to that of quartz ; and , as most of the other characters belonging to this kind of thallite are similar to those of the kinds already known , I shall , in the following description , mention only such of its characters as , on account of their being different , might lead to false ideas respecting it .
The major part of these small masses present no determined form ; in some of them , however , a perfectly regular crystallization may be observed .
In this latter state , the greater number of crystals appear in the form of rhomboidal tetraedral prisms , of 28 ?
So ' and 51 ? ?
30 ' , in which the terminal faces are perpendicular upon the sides , as in Fig. 4o .
( Plate IX .
) This form , which was before unknown in the thallite , and which might at first view be taken for a primitive one , was very likely to lead to an erroneous idea ; it may however be explaned by another form , which is also met with in perfectly determined crystals .
In these last , the prism is hexaedral , with two edges of 114 ?
so ' , two others of 28 ? ?
30 ' , and the two last of 1 7 ?
; its terminal faces are also perpendicular upon the sides of the prism , as in Fig. 41 .
Now this form is exactly the same as one of those already observed in the prism of the common thallite , and is produced in the following manner , viz. the primitive rhomboid , the edges of which are 14 30o ' and 65 ? ?
3o ' , has each of its acute edges replaced by a plane , inclined , in a contrary direction , upon one of the sides of the prism , so as to make with it an angle of e28 ?
o ' .
I have often found this hexaedral prism terminated , in the same way , by planes perpendicular to its sides , among the crystals of thallite from the Alps of Dauphiny .
The preceding rhomboidal tetraedral prism , consequently , is produced by an increase of the faces which have replaced the edges of 65 ?
o ' ; which increase has been such as to cause the sides of the primitive rhomboidal prism , on which each of them incline , to disappear : this is represented by the dotted lines in Fig. 4p .
The direction of the lamine , in these crystals , strongly supports the foregoing explanation .
Sometimes the rhomboidal prisms become of an indeterminate form , by being flattened so as to render the edges of 128 ? ?
30 ' much more obtuse ; when that happens , they have no longer any regular measure .
In this first tate of the thallite which accompanies the imperfect corundum from the Carnatic , the pieces , whether they are crystallized or of an indeterminate form , have their surface covered with little asperities , thereby exhibiting an appearance which cannot be better described , than by comparing it to that preparation of fish-skin which is called chagrin .
This is the natural effect of their peculiar texture ; for , if one of these pieces is broken , we perceive very plainly , that it is not of a bomogeneous texture , but is mixed with small particles of the substance we have already described as the matrix of corundum ; which mixture is often in such proportion , that the quantity of the latter substaice is equal , or nearly so , to that of the thallite itself.* The appearance the surface of these pieces exhibits , is owing to the destruction , at the said surface , of the forementioned small particles of the matrix , which , as is well known , is very easily decomposed .
There sometimes even remains , in the little cavities , which are very numerous , small particles of this matrix , generally in a state of decomposition .
In this case , if the pieces are immersed in nitric acid , a slight and momentary efiervescence takes place ; and , if this immersion is continued for some days , the acid then acts upon those particles of the matrix which are enclosed in the interior part of the substance , as has been already mentioned in the description of this matrix ; in consequence of which , the pieces , when taken out of the acid , may be easily crumbled by the slightest pressure of the fingers ; and nothing remains in its former state , except the small particles of the thallite .
There exist some pieces , in which the particles of the matrix are infinitely more numerous than those of the thallite itself ; the latter then only appears in the form of small greenish or yellowish points , disseminated in greater or less proportion , and in detached spots .
In the second of the states in which this substance is found in the matrix of corundum , it appears in the form of pretty thick prisms ; these prisms have deep grooves or channels , which , as is often observed in the crystals of tourmalin , render their shape absolutely deformed .
The substance , in this second state , is more pure ; no particles of the matrix , which were said to be mixed with it in its first described state , are to be seen .
The semi-transparency is more general , and in a greater degree .
The green or yellowish colour is also more deep ; and sometimes a slight tinge of red is mixed with those colours. .
Some parts of the pieces are less grooved than others ; and those parts indicate the forementioned rhomboidal prismatic form of 128 ? ?
3o ' and 51 ? ?
30 ' ; but it is very difficult to obtain an even fracture of this stone .
In the third state , this substance is so very similar to the purest imperfect corundum , that at first I supposed it to be of the same nature ; and it was not until I had examined it more particularly , that its specific gravity and its hardness , so different from those of corundum , led me to think it could not possibly belong to that substance , and that it ought , from those characters , to be ranged with the thallite .
The analysis of etit , made by Mr. CHENEVIX , has proved the truth of my observations .
Its semi-transparency , in this state , is more considerable , and approaches very nearly to complete transparency .
Its colour is generally a beautiful topaz yellow , which sometimes inclines slightly to green .
I have hitherto met with it only in pieces of an indeterminate and irregular form , the size of which , though more or less considerable , never exceeded that of a small nut .
Its fracture is generally irregular , and often partially conchoid .
In some pieces , however , may be perceived small particles which , seem to have a laminated texture , the direction of the laminae being such as to announce the primitive crystal of the thallite ; but I have never been able to bring this substance to the shape of that crystal , by any artificial division or fracture of it .
Hornblende .
This substance is that which is most constantly , and most abundantly , contained in the matrix now treated of .
There are indeed some pieces of the matrix , wherein the proportion of hornblende is as great as in some granite rocks of which it constitutes the principal component part ; and those .
pieces have an appearance very similar to that of such rocks .
It is generally of a deep black colour , and opaque ; but I have sometimes seen it in the form of small elongated crystals , of a fine green colour , and transparent .
Its texture is very evidently laminated ; and it is seldom that any determinate form can be perceived in it ; sometimes , however , the rhomboidal tetraedral form of its prism may be distinguished .
Quartz .
In this matrix is also found quartz , in small detached fragments , of an indeterminate shape .
This substance , however , is by no means common ; on the contrary , of the various Qq 295 substances that are met with in this matrix , quartz is one of the most rare .
It is generally of a dull white colour , and has but a small degree of transparency .
Mica and Talc .
These two substances are not very common in this matrix , yet they are more so than quartz .
The mica has a silvery hue , sometimes slightly inclining to green ; and , in the pieces of the matrix in which it is found , it generally appears in small detached spangles .
The talc is generally of a pale green colour ; and , in those parts of the matrix where it is met with , it is in pieces nearer each other than was the case with respect to the spangles of mica .
Sometimes it forms small masses , little or not at all mixed with any other substance .
At other times , it is found in that very divided or earthy state ( seldom without some heterogeneous mixture ) which has been hitherto distinguished , after Mr. .
WERNER , by the name of chlorite .
There are also , but more rarely , met with in this matrix,7 pieces of real-steatite , of a white or a greenish colour .
According to a letter written from Tritchinopoly , the loth of November , 179 % , to Sir CHARLEs OAKLEY , then governor of Madras , and comlunicated by him to Mr. GREVILLE , it appears that the imperfect corundum of the Carnatic , as well as the matrix in which it is contained , forms , in the place from whence it is , procured , distinct strata ; and that these strata are accompanied by a substance which ' is ita considerable abundance , and which cannot be better distinguished than by the : name of talcy mica .
This substance is easiy separated from the matrix of corundumm ; and it is usual to separate it on the spot , before the pieces containing the corundum are sent away for the purposes of commerce .
Some of it was sent to Mr. GREVILLS:296 by Sir CHARLES OAKLEY himself .
The colour of this is a blackish brown ; and its exterior appearance is .
nearly similar to that of mica ; but the lustre of its surface is somewhat less bright .
Its texture is very distinctly laminated ; the lamina , which are very thin , being chiefly evident at the edges ; they adhere , however , more strongly to each other than those of mica .
These laminae may be bent , without breaking ; but they do not show the smallest signs of elasticity .
This substance possess but a small degree of transparency , and that only when it is brought into the state of very thin lamina ; its colour then appears a brownish yellow , not much unlike that of resin .
It is much more greasy to the touch than mica ; it is also less hard , so that it may be easily scratched with the nail ; and , if we scratch it with the point of a penknife , we are not sensible of that kind of slight shivering which takes place when mica is so treated .
Mr. GREVILLE , il the Paper upon corundum which he presented to the Royal Society , in June , 1798 , was perfectly aware of the difference between this substance and that properly called mica .
In the collection.he received of the former , are many crystals , several of which are nearly an inch in length , and two or three lines in thickness .
Some of these are in the form of a rhomboidal prism , of 6o ?
and iso ?
; others have the form of a regular hexaedral prism .
Upon the whole , the characters of this substance may be considered as partaking both of those belonging to mica and those belonging to talc .
Its mean specific gravity , taken from three trials , which dif .
feared very little from each other , is 2709 .
, Garnets .
In the matrix here spoken of , and also in the corundum itself , ganets are sometimes met with ; they are of a dee 297 red colour , and of a roundish form .
There was lately sent to Mr. GREVILLE , a parcel of imperfect corundum , found among the sands of the river Kirtna , in the district of Ellore , * in the northern part of the government of Madras .
This corundum , some of the crystals of which were the best defined of any I had yet seen , was mixed with pretty large angular fragments of garnets , of a very deep blood-red colour , and of the most beautiful transparency .
Zircon .
The same parcel of imperfect corundum , of which I have just spoken , from the district of Ellore , was also mixed with crystals of zircon , the jargon of the lapidaries .
These crystals , which were in perfect condition , deserve to be mentioned , not only on account of their size , but also on account of the great number of varieties and rare forms they exhibit .
Such , for instance , is the primitive very obtuse octaedron , which is in large crystals , with sides of more than six lines in length .
I had observed this form , for the first time , fifteen years ago , in some crystals found in the sands of a rivulet , called Riou Pezzouliou , which runs between the volcanic rocks at Expailly , near Puy in Velay ; but these crystals were very small .
The celebrated ROME ' DE LISLE , who published my account of these crystals , in his excellent work on the external characters of minerals , mentions the opinion I then entertained , and had communicated to him , that the jargon and the hyacinth were only two differently-coloured varieties of the same substance , and were both derived from the same primitive form .
The most usual colour of these crystals of zircon , is a brown , which sometimes inclines to yellow : they often , however , have that fine yellowish red colour , which causes this stone to be ' This district is contiguous to that in which the diamond mines are situated .
distinguished by the name of hyacinth .
Their size , and the perfection of their crystallization , enabled me to ascertain , that the angle formed by the meeting of the planes of the octaedron at the base , measures 85 ?
; and that formed by their meeting at the summit , 95 ?
; as is stated in the work I have just mentioned .
The Abb6 HAUY , in his excellent work on Mineralogy , fixes the first of these measures at 82 ? ?
50 ' , and the other at 97 ?
lo ' .
I imagine he must have been deceived , either by the crystals having been of too small a size , or by their not having been of a perfectly regular form .
Amongst the pieces of the stone which serves as a matrix for the imperfect corundum , are found some , in which may be perceived a great number of very brilliant small points , of a yellowish red or orange colour .
When viewed with a lens , these points appear to be minute crystals , perfectly transparent ; but it is impossible to ascertain their form .
On some of them may be perceived small facets ; others have the appearance of prisms they are of very considerable hardness .
I am unable to form a decided opinion respecting the true nature of these microscopic crystals : but , all things considered , I am inclined to think it probable that they belong to the zircon .
Although these crystals , in the state I have just described , are extremely small , that state is by no means the smallest in which they are found in this substance ; they also exist in it , so very minute in size , that our eyes , even when assisted with instruments , are scarcely able to distinguish them .
In this state , they become a real colouring matter , for those parts of the .
matrix in which they are contained ; which parts thereby acquire a fine orange colour , more or less deep .
By attentively examining ; these parts with a lens of sufficient power , we may perceive : 299 the crystals approaching nearer to each other , and diminishing in size , so as at last to become invisible : very often , they show themselves only in the form of small filaments , scarcely perceptible .
The above is not the only substance which presents the phenomena just described , even in the stones here treated of ; the thallite sometimes has the same appearances ; and , in that case , it gives to the matrix a green colour , similar to its own .
When this happens , we may sometimes , by means of a lens , perceive small microscopic crystals of thallite ; very often , however , they are too small to be distinguished .
It appears therefore that coloured stony substances , by interposing themselves , in particles too small to be seen , in stones , may sometimes produce the same effects ( and probably in the same manner ) as are produced by the various metallic oxides .
Very attractable black Oxide of Iron .
This ore of iron ( which is thefer oxidule of the Abbe HAUY , and the magnetic iron ore of the Germans , ) is also found sometimes in the matrix of imperfect corundum from the peninsula of India ; but , as we shall hereafter see , it is by no means so general , nor so abundant , in that matrix , as it is in the matrix of imperfect corundum from China .
In the former , it appears in small grains of an indeterminate shape , which are sometimes interposed between the particles of hornblende , in such a way as might easily lead us to suppose , that the latter substance has the property of being acted upon by the magnet .
In those parts of the matrix which contain this oxide of iron , are found hexaedral prisms of corundum , the surface of which is entirely covered by a layer of the oxide , about a quarter of an inch in thickness , and absolutely moulded upon them .
2oo .
MATRIX OF IMPERFECT CORUNDUM FROM CHINA , AND SUBSTANCES WITH WHICH , IT IS ACCOMPANIED .
This matrix is totally different from that of the imperfect corundum of the Carnatic , being a granite rock , composed of an aggregated mixture of felspar , fibrolite , mica , and very attractable black oxide of iron .
I have not yet seen in it any particles of that particular substance , already described , which composes the principal part of the matrix of imperfect corundum from the Carnatic .
The four substances above-mentioned , are unequally distributed throughout the mass ; ' some pieces being composed almost entirely of one of them ; while , in other pieces , those substances are mixed together in various proportions , and sometimes in nearly equal ones .
The crystals of corundum are disseminated in the mass , in the same'manner as those of the Carnatic are in their matrix ; but , as the particles of the matrix now treated of have a much stronger adherence to each other , and also to the crystals of corundum , it is difficult to detach the said crystals from the matrix , without breaking them .
The felspar has , in this matrix , the same appearance it usually has in granites .
Its colour is generally reddish ; very often , however , it is of a grayish white colour .
I have never observed it to have any determined crystalline form ; but , when it is in masses of a certain size , their texture is evidently laminated .
The ' mica has a silvery appearance , sometimes inclining a little to a yellowish colour , at other times to a greenish one .
Its laminae are frequently united together , so as to form prisms , which are pretty thick , but most commonly of an irregular shape ; sometimes , however , the appearance of a regular form may be observed in them .
The fibrolite is in much greater proportion in this matrix , than in that of the imperfect corundum from the Carnatic ; and it is more generally dispersed throughout its substance ; its fibres , however , are shorter , and form small detached diverging pencils , which unite together , crossing and penetrating each other in all directions , so as to present masses of a more considerable size .
In this manner , it often entirely surrounds the crystals of corundum , and it is then impossible to disengage them from it .
Its most usual colour is a whitish gray , but it is also frequently of a dull white .
It is sometimes mixed , nearly in equal proportions , with felspar , and the attractable black oxide of iron ; and thus produces a stone which , if polished , would have a very beautiful appearance .
The analysis which Mr. CHENEVIX has made of this substance , concurs with all its other characters to demonstrate , that it is decidedly of the same nature as the fibrolite of which I have already spoken , as being found in the matrix of imperfect corundum from the Carnatic .
The very attractable black oxide of iron is , of the various substances found in the matrix of imperfect corundum from China , that which is most constantly , and most universally , mixed with it .
In the smallest piece of this matrix that can be broken off , some particles of the oxide may generally be perceived ; even the crystals of the corundum itself are hardly ever free from it , it being observable , not only upon their exterior surface , but also within their substance .
This oxide of iron is usually disseminated , in this matrix , in small masses 502 of an indeterminate shape , which very often are nearly contiguous to each other .
It is very rare to find among them any crystals perfectly formed ; yet I have sometimes observed octaedrons , dodecaedrons , and segments of the first of these two forms , or octaedrons , which had in each pyramid , and exactly opposite , one of the faces much larger than the three others .
This last form , appeared to me to be the most common one .
This oxide sometimes exists also in masses of a much larger size ; but they are almost always of an irregular shape .
I have often observed pieces as large as a hazel nut ; and sometimes , though much less frequently , of a still more considerable size , The mean specific gravity of this oxide of iron , taken from four trials , was 5073 .
This is rather superior to what has been considered as the specific gravity of this ore of iron , it having been always estimated at less than 5000 .
I know nothing to which I can attribute this difference , except to the peculiar texture of the oxide here described ; which , as far as I have been able to observe , has always appeared to me to be much more compact than is usual in this species of iron ore .
In other respects , it has , when perfectly pure , all the other characters belonging to this species .
There are some pieces of the matrix now treated of , in which the small masses of the above oxide , by being mixed with fibrolite and mica , exhibit an appearance that might cause them to be considered as pieces of a true granite ; in others , it is mixed , in different proportions , with the substance of the corundum itself , in such a manner , that it is impossible , by the eye , to distinguish this mixture from the pure metallic oxide .
Mr. CHENEVIx analyzed one of these pieces ; and found that rr 303 it contained nearly equal quantities of corundum and of oxide of iron .
If , to what has been already said , I add , that there are sometimes found in this matrix , small pieces of green pulverulent talc , ( chlorite , ) and small masses of thallite , in thin elongated crystals , of a beautiful yellowish green colour , in the form of diverging rays , I shall have mentioned all the substances I have been able to observe , in the matrix of imperfect corundum from China .
Of the matrix of imperfect corundum from the kingdom of Ava , a small quantity only was sent ; but that quantity was sufficient to demonstrate , that its nature is exactly the same as that of the matrix of imperfect corundum from China .
MATRIX OF PERFECT CORUNDUM FROM THE .
ISLAND OF CEYLON , AND SUBSTANCES WITH WHICH IT IS ACCOMPANIED .
I cannot help regretting , that it is not in my power to give much information respecting the matrix of perfect corundum from Ceylon .
The precious stones comprised under that denomination , which are selected from the sands washed down by the rivers of the island , and sold under the name of sand of Ceylon , have never been brought to Europe in any kind of matrix , nor has any account of their matrix ever been transmitted to us .
Perhaps , indeed , no more information on this head could be procured on the spot , than was obtained by those naturalists who sought for the origin of the sapphires , &amp;c. found in the sands of the small rivulet at Expailly , already spoken of .
I may also observe , that the great care taken to free the sand of Ceylon from every substance , except such as , on account of their hardness and their lustre , are considered as of value in commerce , deprives us of all chance of obtaining that knowledge respecting the matrix here treated of , which might otherwise be acquired , from an attentive examination of the various substances which it is natural to suppose are brought down , with the sand , by the streams .
We shall , however , presently see , that one of those fortunate events by which nature sometimes rewards the labours of those who devote themselves to the study of her works , has presented us with some very interesting ficts on this subject .
In order to render as complete as possible , every information which is connected with the investigation of corundum in general , and particularly to make known every thing I have been able to learn respecting this stone in its highest degree of perfection , I think it right to make some remarks on the various substances with which it is accompanied , in the sand sent to us from Ceylon ; although I cannot undertake to assert positively , that these substances really accompany it , : when in its matrix .
pinel'le .
The first of tlese substances , and one which composes more than nine parts in ten of the whole mass of the sand , is the spinelle ruby , now generally known by the name of spinelle .
Notwithstanding the great number of crystals of this substaite which are found in the sand , it is very uncommon to meet with one of a tolerable size , that is both transparent and of a perfect form : indeed most of them are merely fragments .
The selection that has already been made in India , where these stones receive their first polish , in order to be distributed for sale , is no doubt the chief reason of the above circumstance : we cannot therefore hope to find in the sand , any crystals of consequence , except such as have by accident escaped this first search ; some of these , however , I have had the good fortune to meet with .
Among the beautiful series of crystals of this substance which I have been so happy as to procure , and to place in the several collections with the care of which I am entrusted by the friendship of their proprietors , there are four , in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , that I think it right here to take notice of .
The forms of these crystals appear to me to be hitherto absolutely unknown ; for the Abb6 HAUY , who may be justly considered as the most learned of those who devote themselves to the study of crystallography , does not even mention them , in the treatise on mineralogy he has just published .
One of these forms , is a complete tetraedron , as in Fig. 43 , It is produced by the enlargement of four of the faces of the octaedron , at the expense of the other four , which it has entirely caused to disappear .
There are , in the same collection , many other crystals which are passing into this form , and are more or less advanced towards it .
One of them , in which there still remain some traces of the octaedron , which had entirely disappeared in the preceding , deserves also to be mentioned .
This variety , which is more common than the preceding , is represented in Fig. 44 .
The second of the above forms , is a very acute rhomboid , the rhombic planes of which have 120 ?
for the measure of their obtuse angles , and 60o for the measure of their acute ones .
Fig. 45 .
This crystal is produced by the enlargement of six of the faces of the octaedron , at the expense of two opposite faces , 'o6 one in each pyramid ; which last faces have entirely disappeared .
There are also several crystals in a progressive state , and more or less advanced , from the octaedron to this form .
( Fig. 46 .
) The third form , is a complete dodecaedron , with rhombic planes .
Fig. 47 .
It is produced by the enlargement of the planes which have replaced the twelve edges of the octaedron ; a modification to which the Abb6 HAUY has given the name of emarginee .
This enlargement is such as to have caused the entire disappearance of the eight primitive planes of the octaedron .
There are also , in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , crystals more or less advanced towards this form , some of which no longer show any traces of the planes of the octaedron , except by extremely small equilateral triangular planes , as in Fig. 48 .
In these crystals , it is very common to find the decrease of the laminax evidently indicated by strize .
The fourth form , is a rectangular tetraedral prism , terminated by two pyramids , also tetraedral , which are situated upon the sides of the prism , and have equilateral triangular planes .
This crystal is produced merely by the edges of the base of the octaedron being replaced ; which replacement separates the two pyramids , by a prism more or less elongated .
There are some crystals in which this prism is pretty long , as in Fig 49 ; others in which it is , on the contrary , very short , as in Fig. 50 .
Although the Abb6 HAUY has described the cuneiform octaedron , I think it right to add to his description , that , in this variety , the separation of the two opposite faces in each of the pyramids , becomes sometimes so considerable , that the crystal thereby changes its appearance , and acquires that of a rhomboidal tetraedral prism , of og ? ?
3o ' , and 70 ?
g3 ' .
This prism is terminated by two diedral summits , with isosceles triangular planes , the apices of which are situated upon those edges of the prism which measure o 3o ' , making with them an angle of e 25 ?
1 ' , and meeting , by their bases , at the top of the crystal , in an angle of o09 ?
o ' , as in Fig. 51 .
I also think it right to add , to what the Abb6 HAUY has said respecting the colours of this substance , that it is sometimes perfectly colourless , sometimes of a yellow colour , and sometimes of a bluish one .
We were as completely ignorant of the nature of the stone which serves as a matrix to the spinelle , as we were respecting that of the matrix of the perfectcorundum of Ceylon , when a number of specimens were sent from India to Sir JOHN ST .
AUBYN , by Mr. WHITE , amongst which were two pieces of the highest value , inasmuch as they served to show us , for the first time , the substance now treated of , enclosed in its matrix .
I flatter myself a description of these two pieces will be thought worthy the attention of the Royal Society , particularly as they also contain a species of iron ore hitherto unknown .
One of these pieces is a calcareous spar , of a granulated texture ; the grains are very large , and are intermixed with each other , so as to adhere very strongly together , but their * The dodecaedron , and the octaedron passing very rapidly to the tetraedron , had already been mentioned by Mr. ESLINGER , ( ouirnal de Pbysique Vol. LII .
p. zz5 , ) as making part of the collection of crystals of this substance in Mr. Were ER'S possession : the other varieties had not yet been described .
According to some of the external characters by which Mr. E LIN GER describes the spinelle , I am inclined to think , that he includes some Ceylanites in that description , and also some oriental rubies .
Such , for instance , I suspect to be , that which lie says has a starry reflection ; also the hexagonal prism with the alternate angles of the base replaced ; and the cube , ( without doubt , slightly rhomboidal , ) which has a small plane upon two of its solid angles diagonally opposite to each other : a form that is very rarely met with , even in the oriental ruby .
308 fracture shows that they are very evidently laminated .
In the substance of this spar are contained a great number of small prismatic crystals of mica , of a beautiful yellow colour , like that of the topaz ; they have also the lustre , and the transparency , of that precious stone , for which they might the more easily be mistaken , as several of them , which show the sides of their prisms on the exterior part of the stone , appear to have their surface slightly rounded.* Very thin lamine may without difficulty be detached from the terminal faces of the crystals ; these laminae are perfectly elastic .
There are also , in this calcareous spar , small pieces of a metallic substance , which deserves to be particularly described .
The colour of this substance is gray , slightly inclining to red , so as very much to resemble that of arsenical cobalt , or of nickel .
The substance is very brittle ; the slightest blow breaks it ; and it may , by a moderate degree of pressure , be reduced into a black powder .
Its fracture is conchoid , with a very fine and compact grain ; and it has a very brilliant lustre .
The magnet acts upon it , very nearly as strongly as it does upon iron in a perfectly metallic state .
When this substance is immersed in nitric acid , no effervescence takes place .
By means of a file , or merely by the blade of a knife , a black powder may easily be obtained from it , without in the least diminishing the lustre of the part from which it is taken .
If a magnet be brought near this powder , it is instantly attracted by it .
Those parts of this substance which appear to have been exposed for any length of time to the contact of the air , are become of a black colour .
I know no other metallic ore whose exterior characters are analogous to those I have just described ; and I very much regret that the scarcity and the consequent value of this specimen , as well as of that about to be described , prevent their being made use of for the purpose of an analysis , the result of which it would be so desirable to be acquainted with .
If , without such analysis , I might be permitted to form an opinion respecting this substance , I should be much inclined to consider it as a martial pyrites , or sulphuret of iron ; but in which the iron , in a metallic state , is combined with a much smaller quantity of sulphur than in common pyrites ; some small traces of the latter , however , may be perceived in this specimen , by the side of the metallic substance above described.* In this same calcareous spar may also be observed , small crystals of a greenish colour , which have hexaedral prisms , ; they are of very inconsiderable hardness .
I believe they belong to that particular species of phosphate of lime , which the Gero mans have distinguished by the name of spargelstein .
But , what renders the specimen I am now describing , in the highest degree interesting , is , that there are some perfectly well formed octaedral crystals of spinelle , of a pale purplish red colour , enclosed therein .
Here then we have a fair and unquestionable instance of the spinelle within its matrix : we shall however see presently , that the nature of this matrix is not constantly the same .
The second of the two pieces I have mentioned above , as being the matrix of the spinelle , is a mass of adularia , of a grayish white colour , about six inches in length , and of a proportionate thickness .
This adularia is tolerably pure , in one half of the piece ; but , in the other half , it is mixed with particles ( much more considerable in size , and in much greater proportion than in the preceding piece , ) of the very brittle and very attractable metallic substance already described .
There may also be observed in it , some small pieces of a substance of a brownish green colour , but which becomes grayish when scraped ; this substance , which is by no means hard , appears to me to be of the nature of steatite .
If this specimen is moved about in a very strong light , there may be perceived in it , here and there , small particles , which have a silvery appearance , and which are rendered very evident , by their laminae being in a direction contrary to those of the adularia which is near them .
I consider these small pieces as belonging to the kind of felspar I have already described , and mentioned as being found in the sand of Ceylon which contained the perfect corundum and the spinelle , and as frequently reflecting a beautiful deep sapphire blue colour .
This specimen contains fewer crystals of spinelle than the preceding one ; some , however , may be perceived in it .
It seems also to contain particles , of calcareous earth , which Ss 2 31 appear to be situated between the laminne of felspar ; at least , if a piece of it be broken off , and put into nitric acid , a slight effervescence is produced , which however is but momentary .
These particles are most numerous , at those parts where the felspar and the metallic substance already described come into contact with each other .
I have placed a specimen of each of these stones in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection .
Notwithstanding there is a considerable difference in the nature of the matter which may be considered as the basis of these two pieces , yet the particular nature of the substances contained in them , which are perfectly similar to each other , seems to render it highly probable that the place of their origin was the same .
But it also appears probable , from every circumstance respecting these stones , that they must have come , not from a mass of rock of the same nature as themselves , but from some veins , to the destruction of which may also very likely be owing the great quantity of spinelles contained in the sands of certain rivers of Ceylon .
Would it be hazarding too much , to suppose that the crystals of perfect corundum which are found in this sand have also the same origin ; and that ( being much more rarely met with , and in much less quantity , ) they have only a partial existence , or one that is confined to certain parts of the veins already spoken of .
The small portions of felspar , and also of calcareous spar , which are sometimes , although very rarely , found in this sand , ( perhaps because the sand has been already freed from such substances , ) tends to support the supposition I have just made , namely , that these two substances are a mong those which compose the real matrix of the stones here treated of..i0 Tourmalin .
This substance is also frequently found in the sand of Ceylon : indeed it is in this sand that the most perfect crystals of tourmalin , the most transparent , and the most various in colour , are generally found .
It is certainly to be lamented , that these crystals are seldom of any considerable size ; but that defect is compensated by the perfection and regularity of their form .
Among these , I have found two in particular , of which , as they have not hitherto been noticed , I think it right to give a descriptionm The first of these forms , is the very obtuse rhomboid which is represented in Fig. 5s , and is the primitive crystal of this .
substance .
The Abb6 HAUY , who also thinks that this rhomboid is really the primitive form of this substance , .
appears not yet to have met with it ; for he has not placed it at the head ' of the description of tourmalin given in his mineralogy , as he has done with respect to the other substances of which he has &amp; observed the primitive form .
It is indeed very scarce .
I have , however , met with it several times ; and have placed a very fine : specimen of it in Sir Jo-HN ST .
AUBYN'S collection .
This crystal , which is about four lines in diameter , and nearly two lines in thickness , is of a brown colour with a tinge of orange ; it is " also pretty transparent , even in the direction of its axis .
Its ; form is perfectly well defined ; and the two pyramids , of which its rhomboid may be considered to be formed , are exactly similar to each other ; neither of them having any supernumerary facets .
, I think it right here to observe , that there appears to me to have been an error committed , with regard to the measures that have'been given as those belonging to the primitive crystal of the tourmalin .
The Abb6 HAUY fixes the measure of the solid angle of the summit of the pyramid at 1S36 54 ' 41 " .
ROME .
DE LISLE'S measure is nearly the same , namely , 137 ? .
I have measured this angle with more than usual care , ( on account of my not agreeing with these two celebrated naturalists , ) having taken the precaution of using several different goniometers , and I have constantly found it to be 139 ' ; which would make the angles of the rhombic planes 114 ? ?
19 ' , and 65 ? ?
48 ' , instead of 1 i0 34j ' 4tlV , and 66 ?
" 5 ' 19 " , as stated by the Abb6 HAUY .
The second of the forms abovementioned is a prism , either hexaedral , enneaedral , or dodecaedral , of which the terminal faces are perpendicular to the axis .
This variety is produced in the following manner , viz. the plane that has replaced the solid angle of the summit of the pyramid , ( which plane is represented by the Abb6 HAUY in Figs. i19 and 1o0 , Plate LII .
of his Mineralogy , ) has acquired an increase of sufficient extent to cause the planes of the pyramid entirely to disappear .
I think it right to add here , a variety of this substance , which also comes from Ceylon , and has not yet been described , namely , a prism which has become of a triedral form , with equilateral bases , by the enlargement of the planes that have replaced the three alternate edges ; the formation of which planes is known to change the hexaedral prism into an enneaedral one ; and the enlargement is such as to cause the six others entirely to disappear .
The tourmalins of Ceylon are not the only ones in which I have observed this triedral prism : I have also met with it among the tourmalins of Saxony , and among those of Bohemia .
Lastly , I shall add , as forms not yet described , ( although they do not belong to tourmalins of Ceylon , ) two complete triedral pyramids , which , if they were not separated by an intermediate prism , would produce two secondary rhomboids , the one more acute , the other more obtuse , than the primitive rhomboid .
The first of these pyramids , is the natural produce of the increase of the planes which have replaced the acute angles of the rhombic planes of the primitive crystal : these planes are represented at the letter o , in Figs. 114 , 115 , 16 , and 12 1 , Plate LII .
of the Mineralogy lately published by the Abbe HAUY .
This learned mineralogist has indeed represented a considerable increase , but not a complete one , of the above-mentioned planes , in Fig. 121 , which he says was communicated to him by Mr. LA METHERIE .
From the appearance of this form , I think it probably belongs to the tourmalins of Regensberg , in the Upper Palatinate ; for many crystals of tourmalin from that place exhibit , at one of their extremities , the pyramid represented at Fig. 121 of the work just mentioned , and the pyramid I have here described , at the other .
This triedral pyramid measures 107 ?
, at the solid angle of its summit .
The second of the pyramids , is produced by the increase of the planes which have replaced the edges of the pyramids of the primitive rhomboid : these planes are represented by the AbbL HAUY at letter n , in Figs. 118 , 119 , and leo , also of Plate LII .
The triedral pyramid which these planes produce , after having caused every trace of the planes of the primitive rhomboid entirely to disappear , has , very nearly , 159 ?
for the measure of the solid angle of its summit .
I have seen this variety among the tourmalins from the Ural mountains , in which , very often , the solid angle of their summit is replaced by a plane , of greater or less extent , which is perpendicular to their axis. .
Among the various colours exhibited by the tourmalins which are found in the sand of Ceylon , there are three which deserve notice , because they have not yet been mentioned by any author ; these are , a light yellow , like the colour of honey , a beautiful clear emerald green , and a red slightly inclining to purple .
The green variety , which indeed might easily lead to a false idea of the stone , is , most probably , what has caused some authors to mention the true emerald as being indigenous to Ceylon , where , hitherto , no trace of that stone appears to have been met with .
This error was the more likely to be committed , as it was not then known that the regular hexaedral prism , with terminal faces perpendicular to the axis , was one of the crystalline forms belonging to the tourmalin ; and that tourmralins of a beautiful emerald green colour , and perfectly transparent , were sometimes met with of that form .
I have placed some very pretty small crystals of this kind in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection .
The tourmalin of a purplish red colour , found in the sand of Ceylon , is exactly similar to that of Siberia , to which the names of rubellite , of daourite , and of Siberite , have been successively given , and which the Abbe HAUY has ultimately distinguished by the name of apyrous tourmalin .
Its form is precisely the same as that of the tourmalin , properly so called ; nor does the measure of its angles exhibit any difference ; especially if that measure is taken upon crystals which are of a perfectly determined form , and which have not , upon their pyramidal planes , any aggregation a that can cause a change in the form of those planes .
I have placed in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , a small group of this kind of tourmalin , from Ceylon , the colour of which is a beautiful red ; among its crystals , which have triedral pyramids with rhombic planes , may be observed one that has a dodecaedral prism , with its terminal faces perpendicular to its axis .
In Sir JOHN ST .
AUBYN'S collection , I have placed a detached crystal , which has also a dodecaedral prism ; one of the extremities of this crystal is of a green colour .
' Lastly , I have , in this same sand , met with a crystal , perfectly colourless , the prism of which is completely triedral ; T The scarcity of the red tourmalin of Siberia , which hitherto has been known only by very small specimens , for which the dealers demand an extraordinary price , seems to be what has hitherto prevented naturalists from forming a decided opinion respecting its proper place in the system of minerals .
I am therefore happy in announcin , g , that there is in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection , a specimen of this kind of tourmalin , ( trom India , ) the size and perfection of which are truly admirable .
This specimen , which is not accompanied with any kind of matrix , is nearly as large as a man 's head ; and is entirely composed of crystals placed by the side of each other , in a diverging form , or rather penetrating each other at one of their extremities , and separating or diverging a little at the other extremity .
Every one of these crystals , most of which are as long as the height of the specimen , is nearly as thick as the little finger .
Thteir form is a hexaedral prism , which is deeply striated , and terminated by a triedral pyramid with rhombic planes , the angles of which , measure exactly the same as those of the corresponding pyramid in the common tourmalin .
All the crystals are pretty transparent ; and terminate on the top of the specimen , by the forementioned pyramids , but at different heights ; a circumstance that gives to the top also a triedral pyramidal form , but much less obtuse than that belonging to each crystal of which it is composed .
The greatest part of this specimen is of a pale purplish red , or flesh colour ; but , towards the base , this colour grows much more deep , so that , at last , it becomes ab:olutely black .
I have observed the same division of colour , in specimens ot this red tourmalin from Siberia .
The superb specimen here described was brought from the kingdom of Ava : it was given by the sovereign of that country , as a present of very great value , to Colonel SyMES , who was sent on an embassy to him , by the English government .
Colonel SYMES placed it in Mr. GREVILLE'S collection ; and he could not pos:ibly make a better use of it ; that collection being , in my opinion , one of the finest in Europe , with respect to the beauty of the specimens and the instructive series of each substance which composes it , and certainly superior to all others , with respect to precious stones in a state of perfect crystallization .
The Abbe HAUY , in his Mineralogy , expresses a wish , that the prismatic enneaedral form , terminated by the triedral pyramid of the primitive rhomboid , ( which he and the pyramidal planes of which , in the only extremity of the crystal that remains , are situated upon the edges of the prism .
Ceylanite .
The stone called Ceylanite , by Mr. LA METHERIE , who is the first author that has considered it as a particular and distinct species , ( distinguished by the name of pleonaste , in the Mineralogy of the Abbe HAUY , ) is also sometimes found in the sand of Ceylon ; it is , however , in general , by no means common .
Of the crystals of this substance that I have collected from this sand , many are perfectly transparent ; a character which appears to have been hitherto unobserved in it .
Its colours are very various .
Besides black and green , which have already been mentioned by authors , I have seen it of a reddish or flesh colour , with a yellowish cast ; of a fine bluish green , like the aqua marine ; and of a fine sky blue , rather pale .
When the Ceylanite is of the last-mentioned colour , whether it be a fragment or a flattened octaedron , it might very easily be mistaken for a sapphire .
Its most usual colour is a brownish green .
As this substance has , in all its external characters , a striking resemblance to the spinelle , of which it is perhaps only a species , I think I cannot be too particular in pointing out those characters which may in some measure serve to distinguish it ; I shall therefore add , that its hardness is rather inferior to that of the spinelle , the Ceylanite being scratched by the spinelle , while the latter cannot be scratched by the Ceylanite ; also , that it usually exhibits , by irregular striae , parallel to the edges of the regular calls isogone , ) may be met with in this substance , in order to determine its nature .
Hee will no doubt feel satisfaction in hearing , that there exists , in the collection of Sir JO3N ST .
AUBYN , a small detached crystal of this substance , of a fine red colour , which has exactly the above-mentioned form .
This crystal I found in the sand of Ceylon , 318 octaedron , its primitive crystal , a tendency to the replacing of all those edges ; an appearance which is very common in the octaedron of the diamond .
I shall remark also , that the surface of its crystals has generally less lustre than is commonly observed in the crystals of spinelle .
The desire of contributing every thing in my power , to render as complete as possible our knowledge respecting this substance , which has been but lately known to mineralogists , induces me to add to the variety of forms that have been described by the Abb6 HAUY , those represented in Figs. 5 and 5 , although the Ceylanite to which those figures belong comes from a different place .
The first is nothing more than the modification represented by the Abb6 HAUY in Fig. 104 , Plate L , of his work , but in which the four planes that have replaced each of the solid angles of the octaedron , are situated upon these same angles , in the primitive crystal itself , instead of being situated upon the planes that have replaced the edges .
I have frequently seen these planes encroach upon each other , to such a degree as to render it very probable that there exists , in the Ceylanite , that form of crystal which consists of 24 trapezoidal facets , and which , by its derivation from the bube , the regular octaedron , and the regular dodecaedron , is already so very common in crystallography .
The second of the forms just spoken of , ( Fig. 54 .
) is the same variety , but with a very slight replacement of the edges of the octaedron : it is the beginning of the change to the abovementioned Fig. 104 , of the Abbd HAUY .
These two varieties belong to the Ceylanite which is enclosed in pieces of stone brought from Somma ; and are indeed the most common Tt varieties found in them , except that in which the edges only are replaced .
Zircon .
This substance is , next to the spinelle , that which is most frequently found in the sand of Ceylon .
It is true , that it is generally in crystals of a very small size ; but these crystals often possess the most beautiful transparency , and they are of many different colours .
To the colours already mentioned as belonging to them , I may add , that they are sometimes of a reddish purple , and sometimes of a pale blue .
Lastly , if to the substances which have already been described , I add , that there are also some small scattered fragments , but in very inconsiderable quantity , of quartz , of felspar , of calcareous soar , of a brownish yellow mica , and of attractable oxide of iron , I shall have enumerated all the substances that are found in the sand of Ceylon , in the state in which it is sent to us .
I have always been astonished at not finding in it any of the peridot , which , as is well known , also comes from Ceylon : hitherto , however , I have not perceived the smallest tra1ce of it .
Of the various substances that have been here described , the spinelle is that which more particularly constitutes the sand of Ceylon , such as it comes into Europe ; but it is natural to suppose , as I have already had occasion to observe , that the sand has been previously examined , and deprived of every substance , except those which are found by experience to be fit for the purposes of commerce .
The other substances above mentioned , are not so constantly found in it , nor are they found always in any regular proportion .
I have seen , for instance , some of this sand which did not contain an atom of perfect corundumn ; other parcels which contained only a very small quantity ; and others in which the proportion of that substance was pretty considerable : the same remark may be applied to every one of the other substances .
It is therefore , I think , fair to conclude , from the above circumstances , that these sands come from different rivers or rivulets , or , if from one river only , from one into which other rivers discharge themselves ; and that thenature of the sand varies , according to the particular circumstances which may have caused one or more of those rivers to1 bring down a greater , and others a less proportion , of the substances of which it consists .
It may indeed also be asked , if what iscalled the sand of Ceylon comes exclusively from that island ?
To this question , I can giveno decisive answer .
I shall only observe , that the length of time it has gone under that denomination , without any alteration , gives some reason for thinking , it has really some claim toit .
It is , at this time , a doubtful point ; whether corundum is found in any part of the world , besides certain districts of the East , Indies ; although , as ; will presently be seen , I have strong reasons for thinking that it also exists in one of the mountainous provinces of France .
I have seen many specimens which were sent from Germany , under the name of corundum ; some of them were nothing more than felspar of a brownish red colour ; others were the stone called scborlartiger beryl , by WERNER , ( the.pycnite of the Abb6 HAUY , ) but in p.eces which were rather less striated than is usually the case with respect to that stone .
It was thought , for some time , that a stone found at Tiree , on the eastern coast of Scotland , was of the nature of corundum .
But , after examining a specimen of that stone , which is in the British iMuseum , I found that its hardness , and its specific gravity , were both very inferior to those of corundum , In its exterior appearance , it very much resembles the felspar that accompanies the imperfect corundum from the Carnatic , and which I have already described , when speaking of the substances which accompany that kind of corundum in its matrix .
It is also said that corundum has been found in America , at Chesnut Hill , near Philadelphia .
But there are , in the Philosophical Magazine , No. 45 , for February last , some observations made by Mr. RICHARD PHILIPS , upon the external characters of the American stone , intended to show that it cannot possibly be corundum .
Mr. PHILIPS has since told me , that the specimen upon which his observations were founded , was sent to him directly from Philadelphia , as a piece of the corundum found near that city .
He also recalled to my mind , ( which I had entirely forgot , ) that he had shown me the specimen some time before ; and that I then gave it as my opinion , that the crystal it contained , supposed to be corundum , was nothing more than an ill-defined crystal of quartz .
Nevertheless , Mr. SMITH , a well-informed mineralogist , from America , has since assured me of the truth of the discovery of corundum , in the neighbourhood of Philadelphia .
In that case , there must have been some mistake respecting the specimen that was sent to Mr. PHILIPS .
Upon the whole , there still remains some uncertainty with regard to the existence of corundum in the neighbourhood of Philadelphia ; and it is necessary , in order to remove all doubt on this head , either that some of the substance should be sent to us , or that some mineralogist in that country should give such an accurate description of its characters as may serve to ascertain its real nature .
It remains for me to speak of the corundum I formerly found , or at least thought I found , in Forez , in the mountainous parts of that province which are near Montbriscn .
I find , by the Mineralogy of the Abbe HAUY , ( Vol. IV .
p. 362 .
) that the substance I had considered as corundum , is now looked upon in France to be of a different nature .
That learned mineralogist , in the abovementioned work , seems inclined to consider it as a species of felspar , and gives it the name of apyrous felspar .
He admits however , at the same time , that it scratches quartz ; that its specific gravity is 3165 ; and that it is infusible by means of the blowpipe .
All these characters seem to place it at a considerable distance from felspar .
The total loss of a very considerable collection of minerals , intended expressly for the purposes of study , ( and which I regret the more from its having been entirely formed , and most of the specimens collected in their native places , by my own hands , ) leaving me no objects of comparison , I can only consult , with regard to the above substance , the few notes I have been so fortunate as to preserve , assisting them with such circumstances as my memory has been able to retain I findin my notes , First , That this substance was enclosed in a yellowish felspar , which formed a small vein in a granite rock ; that , in some parts of the felspar , it appeared in the form of small spots , easily distinguishable by their colour , which was red with a purplish tinge ; and that , in other parts , it was in masses of a rather larger size , from which I was able to extract some fragments .
323 Secondly , That the appearance of this substance was entirely different from that of felspar ; and that , where it came in contact with the felspar , it seemed to mix itself with it in such an insensible manner , that , after having sawed and polished a piece composed partly of felspar and partly of the substance here spoken of , :it was impossible , by the eye , to distinguish exactly where the felspar began , or , which is the same thing , where the other substance terminated .
Thirdly , I find also by my notes , that the pieces I had collected , varied considerably in their degree of hardness , although all of them were harder than felspar usually is ; for many of these pieces would scarcely scratch felspar ; whereas others could scarcely be scratched by the greatest number of gems or precious stones .
The characters of the last mentioned or hardest pieces , appeared to me to be very similar to those of the imperfect corundum from China , a crystal of which ROME ' DE LISLE had sent me a short time before .
The above observations , joined to the remarkable manner in which this substance is mixed with felspar , made me adopt the erroneous opinion mentioned by the Abbd HAUY , in his observations upon corundum , namely , that this substance might be nothing more than a more dense variety of felspar .
I soon , however , entirely gave up this idea , after I had it in my power to examine more particularly the nature of corundum .
Fourthly , and lastly , I find by my notes , ( and I also remember it perfectly well , ) that among the pieces I was able , by patiently and carefully using the tools employed for that purpose by mineralogists , to extract from the vein above mentioned , there were some to which adhered small irregularly shaped pieces of a substance that was perfectly transparent , and had 332,4 a fine sapphire blue colour .
The hardness of this substance was such as to be equalled only by that of the sapphire itself ; and , in some of the pieces , instead of adhering to the outside , it was dispersed , in very small particles , within the interior part .
As I cannot , even at this time , consider this blue substance as any thing else than the blue perfect corundum known by the name of sapphire , I still retain the opinion I formerly thought it right to adopt , namely , that the substance to which it adhered , and which I found in the province of Forez , was really a kind of corundum .
I still think also , that the variety I observed in the degree of hardness , and in the specific gravity , of different pieces , was owing to their being mixed , in various proportions , with felspar .
If it should happen that , among the remains of a collection of which nothing is left to me but a painful remembrance , ( although , as I have before said , my present situation is such as much alleviates my regret , ) any of the specimens above spoken of still exist , and should fall into the hands of well informed naturalists , I hope they will let them serve as a basis for fresh observations .
The description of the Abb6 HAUY is alone sufficient to show , that the above substance cannot possibly be a kind of felspar .
I am sorry , however , that he did not join to his description , the analysis of the substance ; it certainly would have been very interesting , particularly if , as would most probably have been the case , the hardest pieces had been selected for that purpose .
The great difference sometimes observed in different specimens of the same substance , is exhibited in a very striking manner , in the emeralds which I found , at the same period , in a large vein of the fore-mentioned rock , but which was situated in the part of the rock opposite to that wherein I discovered the blue substance already described .
The Abb6 HAUY , in his Mineralogy , ( Vol. IV .
page 361 , ) mentions these emeralds , but expresses some doubts respecting them .
These doubts I think would be removed , if I had it in my power to send him the specimens I then collected .
Among them were some crystals , which possessed a degree of hardness fully equal to that which is known to belong to the emerald : the hardness of many others was , however , very inferior ; owing no doubt to the interposition of some heterogeneous substance , which I always suspected to be of a magnesian nature .
The Abb6 HAUY , in order to fix his opinion respecting this substance , appears to require nothing but to see some crystals of it which possess the additional facets peculiar to the true emerald .
I cannot indeed show him such crystals ; but I can supply the want of them , not only by my notes , but also by models cut in wood , which I was so fortunate as to bring away with me , as well as the whole collection of models of which they form a part .
I find , among the models I made of these emeralds from Forez , all the varieties the Abb6 HAUY has represented in Plate XLV .
of his work , excepting only Fig , 50 .
of that Plate .

