Observations relative to the near and distant Sight of different Persons .
By James Ware , Esq. F.R.S. Read November 19 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 31 .
] The author states , in the first place , that he has rarely observed short-sightedness in children under ten years of age , and that he considers it as commencing generally between that period and eighteen ; that it at first occasions so little inconvenience , that it is not noticed by those who have not access to concave glasses , and consequently is very frequently overcome by the natural efforts of the eye .
Persons , on the contrary , in the higher ranks of society , who have it more in their power to indulge a slight weakness , by having recourse to short-sighted glasses , soon confirm the imperfection , and in many instances even render it worse , by employing glasses deeper than are necessary .
For the purpose of instituting a comparison between the proportional prevalence of this defect in different classes of society , Mr. Ware made inquiry in the three regiments of Foot Guards , containing nearly 10,000 men , and also in the two Universities , Oxford and Cambridge .
In the Guards short-sightedness among the privates is scarcely known ; and not more than half a dozen recruits are said to have been rejected for this imperfection in the course of twenty years .
In the Universities , on the contrary , the numbers are so considerable , that in one of the colleges in Oxford , it is said that of 127 persons , so many as thirty-two have used either a hand-glass or spectacles .
It is -thus proved that short-sightedness is corrected in one class of persons , and encouraged in the other ; and it is evident that even in those who absolutely require glasses , it may be increased by using such as are deeper than are really necessary , or counteracted by employing the lowest with which the eye can see with comfort .
It is observed , however , that extreme short-sightedness sometimes occurs in children from visible imperfection in the form of the cornea , and sometimes arises as an accidental and temporary consequence of general debility , and is then removable by chalybeate medicines and bracing applications .
Dr. Porterfield has observed , that the pupils of short-sighted persons are in general more dilated than those of others ; but Mr. Ware does not admit this to be generally the case ; neither does he admit the common opinion to be well founded , that the magnitude of the pupil varies according to the distance of the object viewed .
He names , however , one extraordinary instance of a lady , whose pupil contracts only when she views objects at the distance of nine inches , but at other times is dilated very nearly to the full extent of the rim of the cornea .
Mr. Ware has also made experiments similar to those of Dr. Wells , on the alteration of the power of the eye during that dilatation of the pupil which is produced by the external application of belladonna .
Those of the author were attended with the same result of lengthening the focus of either eye to which the belladonna was applied , without affecting the customary range of vision in the other eye .
The authlor observes , that short-sightedness does not depend on the greater or less concavity of the cornea alone ; since its distance from the retina , and the convexity of the crystalline also , must be taken into the account .
It has sometimes been observed , that old persons have in a short time recovered the perfect sight of younger persons ; and this has been explained by Dr. Porterfield , by a supposition of the absorption of fat from the bottom of the orbit , allowing the axis of the eye to become more elongated : but Mr. Ware thinks it more likely to have arisen from absorption of the vitreous humour , in consequence of which the sclerotica would be pressed inwards , and that then the axis of the eye would be elongated .
Mr. Ware observes , that persons in general who use glasses , possess the power of seeing both near and distant objects with the same glass , but that this is not the case with those who have been couched , who always require a different glass to enable them to see distant objects ; proving thereby that the adapting power of the eye depends on the presence of the crystalline .
In consequence of this defect , such persons judge very imperfectly of distances .
In comparing the range of adaptation possessed by short-sighted persons with that of others , the author conceives the range of the former to be much less ; his estimate being made by the number of inches through which the range of distinct vision extends .
The author , being himself very short-sighted , remarks , that the change that has taken place in his own eyes by age , does not accord with the observation generally made , that short-sighted persons become less so as they advance in life .
In his eyes the shortest distance of distinct vision remains nearly where it was ; but the power of discerning distant objects is so far lessened , that for this purpose he requires a glass one degree deeper than that which he commonly employs , and with which he formerly used to distinguish distant as well as near objects ; and as he is acquainted with other instances in which a correspondent change has taken place , he is of opinion that such changes are by no means unfrequent .
However , in two of those here enumerated , this change was produced by evident disease ; and in one of them it was only temporary .
A third instance mentioned of an eye becoming less long-sighted , is occasioned by unusual efforts of adaptation .
An instrument-maker , by employing a microscope , for the purpose of dividing with accuracy for several days together , is afterwards able to read without spectacles for a few weeks , but his sight then gradually eloingates , till he again has occasion to employ himself in dividing .
Two other cases are also mentioned , of long-sightedness reduced to vision at a moderate distance , both arising from disease , and both speedily relieved by evacuating remedies .

