The Effect of Pressure upon Arc Spectra .
597 Although the water is thought of as attached only to the negative ion , both ions would appear to he hydrated , on this hypothesis .
The arrangement suggested is but a modification of the Grotthus ' chain .
It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the facts on the chemical side are such as require some such explanation of the phenomena , and that we are justified in asking physicists to re-examine the arguments which have led them to take exception to the Grotthus explanation .
FitzGerald has already spoken with no uncertain voice and given us his support , in his memorial lecture on Helmholtz .
Of late years probably no one has shown greater power of appreciating all sides of the position : his adverse criticism of the dissociation hypothesis is therefore of peculiar value .
The Effect of Pressure upon Arc Spectra .
No. I.\#151 ; Iron .
By W. Geoffrey Duffield , B.Sc. , B.A. ( Communicated by Professor A. Schuster , F.R.S. Received July 4 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) The first part of the paper contains a description of the mounting and adjustment of the large Rowland Concave Grating in the Physical Laboratory of the Manchester University .
The feature of this is the stability of the carriages carrying the grating and camera , and the novel construction and attachment of the cross-beam , which secure the absence of any disturbance which might be caused by bending or sagging .
The second part describes experiments made with a pressure cylinder designed by Mr. J. E. Petavel , F.R.S. , in which an arc is formed between metal poles opposite a glass window , through which the light is examined by means of the Grating Spectroscope .
A system of mirrors allows the image of the arc , however unsteady it may be , to be kept almost continuously in focus upon the slit .
Two sets of photographs of the iron arc in air have been taken for " pressures ranging from 1 to 101 atmospheres ( absolute ) , and the results are given below for wave-lengths X = 4000 A.U. to =4500 A.U. I. Broadening .
1 .
With increase of pressure all lines become broader .
2 .
The amount of broadening is different for different lines , some almost Mr. W. G. Duffield .
[ July 4 , becoming bands at high pressures , and others remaining comparatively sharp .
3 .
The broadening may be symmetrical or unsymmetrical ; in the latter case the broadening is greater on the red side .
II .
Displacement .
1 .
Under pressure the most intense portion of every line is displaced from the position it occupies at a pressure of 1 atmosphere .
2 .
Reversed as well as bright lines are displaced .
3 .
With increase of pressure the displacement is towards the red side of the spectrum .
4 .
The displacement is real and is not due to unsymmetrical broadening .
5 .
The displacements are different for different lines .
6 .
The lines of the iron arc can be grouped into series according to the amounts of their displacements .
7 .
Three groups can in this way be distinguished from one another ; the displacements of Groups I , II , III bear to one another the approximate ratio 1:2:4 .
( The existence of a Fourth Group is suggested by the behaviour of two lines , but further evidence is needed upon this point ; 1:2 : 4 : 8 would be the approximate relations existing between the four Groups .
) 8 .
Though all the lines examined , with two possible exceptions , fall into one or other of these Groups , the lines belonging to any one Group differ to an appreciable extent among themselves in the amounts of their displacements .
9 .
The relation between the pressure and the displacement is in general a linear one , but some photographs taken at 15 , 20 , and 25 atmospheres pressure give readings incompatible with this relation .
Other photographs at 15 and 25 atmospheres present values which are compatible with it .
10 .
The abnormal readings are approximately twice those required by the displacements at other pressures , if the displacement is to be a continuous and linear function of the pressure throughout .
11 .
On the photographs showing abnormal displacements the reversals are more numerous and broader than they are on plates giving normal values , and there is some evidence in favour of a connection between the occurrence of abnormal displacements and the tendency of the lines to reverse .
III .
Reversal .
1 .
As the pressure is increased , reversals at first become more numerous and broader .
2 .
The tendency of the lines to reverse reaches a maximum in the 1907 .
] The Effect of Pressure upon Arc Spectra .
neighbourhood of 20 to 25 atmospheres , and a further increase in pressure reduces their number and width .
3 .
Two types of reversal appear on the photographs , symmetrical and unsymmetrical .
4 .
Within the range of pressure investigated , the reversals show no tendency to change their type .
5 .
In the case of unsymmetrically reversed lines in the electric arc , the reversed portion does not in general correspond to the most intense part of the emission line , being usually on its more refrangible side .
6 .
The displacements of the reversed parts of the unsymmetrically reversed lines of Group III are about one-half the displacements of the corresponding emission lines .
Indeed , the reversed parts of the lines of Group III fall approximately in Group II .
7 .
No relation between the order of reversal and the frequency of vibration , such as exists in the spark , has been observed in the iron arc for the ranges of wave-length and pressure examined .
IY .
Intensity .
1 .
The intensity of the light emitted by th\#174 ; iron arc is , under high pressures , much greater than at normal atmospheric pressure .
2 .
Changes in relative intensity of the lines are produced by pressure .
Lists of enhanced and weakened lines are given .
2 t 2

