XXII .
" The Physiological Action of Atropine , Digitaline , and Aconitine on the Heart and Blood-vessels of the Frog .
" By FREDERIC B. NUNNELEY , M.D. Lond. Communicated by Dr. BASTIAN .
Received June 16 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) These experiments were undertaken with the view of determining more exactly the physiological action of atropine , digitaline , and aconitine on the heart and blood-vessels , by methods of experiment which have hitherto been little followed out .
My experiments on atropine have led me to the conclusion that it exerts no action on the blood-vessels , a result which differs from that of Mr. Wharton Jones and of M. Meuriot .
This opinion was adopted after a lengthened examination of the natural circulation in the frog 's web , and of the numerous spontaneous changes which it undergoes , and also of those which are the result of the slightest irritation .
It is some of these changes which have , I think , been assigned by the observers just named to the special action of atropine .
Different opinions have been entertained with regard to the action of digitaline on the heart ; the result of my observations is given below .
Aconitine has also a very marked action on the heart , the opposite of that of digitaline ; its physiological effects are stated .
In actually conducting the experiments , the general symptoms of a poisonous dose were first observed , so as to show the period at which the heart lost its vitality in relation to the rest of the body .
Next , the visible effect produced on the heart , exposed in situ , was noted as regards the quality , frequency and rhythm of its contractions ; and also the alteration seen to occur in a heart removed from the body and immersed in a solution of the alkaloid .
Lastly , the effect on the blood-vessels of the web , was examined with the aid of the microscope .
The results obtained have been thrown into the form of conclusions .
Atropine , digitaline , and aconitine do not produce any effect on the vessels of , or circulation in , the frog 's web , whether locally applied in the form of solution , or injected under the skin at a distant part , so as to influence the animal generally ; in the latter case , as they tend to impair or abolish the functions of the heart , the circulation necessarily undergoes secondary changes ; but these alterations do not occur until the heart is visibly affected .
Atropine.-1 .
A few minutes after a dose of about 0 gr. , the frog becomes quiet , sinks down on the plate containing it and makes ineffectual efforts to jump , the respiratory movements cease and it dies in from 1U to 3 hours .
On exposing the heart , it is found beating , and the contractions continue for some hours .
2 .
The action of atropine on the heart is neither considerable nor ener getic , a progressive weakening of its power being the most prominent visible effect .
The heart continues to beat for some time after the manifestations of life in the rest of the animal have disappeared ; finally it slowly dies itself , the ventricle being left in a state of relaxation ; this occurs at the end of ten , twelve , or several more hours .
3 .
The heart 's contraction gradually decreases in frequency and there is no primary acceleration .
The rhythm of the heart 's action is not interfered with ; the auricles continue to beat for some time after the ventricle has ceased to do so .
4 .
When the heart is removed from the body and immersed in a solution of sulphate of atropine , it ceases to contract in about the same time that a heart does placed in water ; its appearance does not undergo any change .
5 .
The pupil of the frog 's eye is not dilated by atropine , either when locally applied or injected under the skin .
6 .
The lymphatic hearts cease to contract long before the blood-heart .
Digitaline.-l .
After the injection of about -~l gr. under the skin , the frog at first jumps about , then becomes quiet , sinks down on the plate , cannot be easily roused and dies in about from twenty to forty minutes .
Sometimes the frog has paroxysms of gasping movements , lasting from twenty to fifty seconds , in which it holds its mouth wide open , leaning on its fore paws .
These attacks are paroxysmal , whilst the embarrassment of the heart is continuous .
On opening the frog , the heart is found motionless and usually unirritable , the ventricle being small and pale .
Where digitaline if put into the mouth it causes a great secretion of fluid ; in cats the salivation is very marked .
2 .
Digitaline acts with great energy on the heart , throwing it into violent and disorderly contractions which quickly end in a cessation of movement .
The first visible effect occurs a short time after the injection under the skin , and consists in a diminished range of the heart 's movements ; but the most marked alteration is a certain embarrassment and loss of smoothness in the heart 's contractions , as if there were a want of coordination in the contractions of the individual fibres .
The ventricular systole presents a peculiar appearance and takes a longer time for its performance than in health ; it appears to travel along , squeezing the heart up , as it were , and forcing the blood into one spot , which becomes bright red and projecting ; at the same time there are prominent muscular bundles on the surface of the ventricle giving it an irregular motion .
During diastole , the ventricle does not everywhere assume a red colour , but one or more irregular red spots appear as if it were so firmly contracted as only to permit the entrance of a small quantity of blood .
These spots become smaller and smaller , until at last the ventricle is left very pale , strongly contracted and motionless , whilst the auricles are distended with blood .
3 .
The frequency of the heart 's contractions is not increased , but is progressively diminished .
4 .
The functions of the heart are abolished very early , voluntary power , as shown by the frog 's ability to jump about with its heart motionless and contracted , reflex acts and the contractility of the lymphatic hearts surviving the death of that organ .
5 .
The rhythm of the heart 's contractions is but little interfered with until near the end , when they become irregular in frequency and force .
6 .
Immersion of the heart , removed from the body , in a solution of digitaline causes the ventricle to become somewhat uneven in outline ; the contractions get weak and infrequent and at last cease , sooner by some minutes than in a heart placed in water ; the appearance of the ventricle when it has ceased to beat , presents little that is peculiar , except that it often looks uneven .
Aconitine.-- .
After the injection under the skin of about -k gr. the frog jumps about for a few minutes and then either sinks down on the plate , or else falls over on to its back , as if it had lost both muscular power and the ability to direct its movements ; in either case it dies in from twenty to forty minutes .
If the dose is larger , the frog falls as if stunned , almost immediately after the injection ; from this state it partially revives , but dies at the end of a few minutes .
On exposing the heart it is found beating , but rather feebly , and continues to do so for one or two hours .
2 .
When the heart is exposed in situ , aconitine is seen to have a very distinct and powerful action upon it .
Its contractile power is quickly impaired giving rise to a peculiar perversion of rhythm .
The interval of relaxation of the ventricle is considerably lengthened , whilst the auricles go on contracting regularly , the consequence is that the ventricle becomes more and more distended with blood , at last a limited part of it contracts , this area of contraction increases with each systole until , in time , the blood is forced , at each contraction , to one part of the heart which projects as a nodule , in a short time the whole ventricle becomes involved in contraction and empties itself in the ordinary way ; soon after the ventricle again enters into a state of relaxation when the same series of acts is repeated .
Finally , the ventricle is left large , dark and distended with blood , in a condition exactly contrary to that of a heart arrested by digitaline .
3 .
When a heart is removed from the body and immersed in a solution of aconitine it ceases to beat a little sooner than one does placed in water , but presents nothing peculiar in its appearance .
4 .
The frequency of the heart 's pulsation is increased by a few beats at first , but in a short time there is a progressive diminution .
5 .
Although aconitine abolishes the functions of the heart in a comparatively short time , voluntary power , reflex acts and the contractility of the lymphatic hearts disappear some time before the blood-heart ceases to beat .
The results obtained in about 170 experiments formed the basis for these conclusions .
48

