]\gt ; May 27 , 1886 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Papers were read:\mdash ; I. ' Family Likeness in Eye-colour.\ldquo ; By FRANCIS GALTON , F.R.S. Received May 10 , 1886 .
My inquiry into Family Likeness in Stature ( ante , p. 42 ) enabled me to define , in respect to that particular quality , the relation in which each man 's peculiarity stands to those of each of his ancestors .
The object of the present memoir is to verify that relation with respect to another quality , namely , eye-colour .
Speaking of heritage , independently of individual variation , and supposing female characteristics to be transmuted to their male equivalents , I show.ed ( 1 ) that the possession of each unit of pecuharity in a man [ that is of difference from the average of his race ] when the man 's ancestry is unknown , implies the existence on am average of just one-third of a unit of that peculiarity in his " " mid-parent , \ldquo ; and , consequently , in each of his parents ; also just one-third of a unit in each of his children ; ( 2 ) that each unit of peculiarity in each ancestor taken singly , is reduced in transmission according to the following average scale :from a parent , to a grandparent , to ; from a great-grandparent , to , and so on .
Stature and eye-colour are not only diiferent as qualities , but they al.e more contrasted in hereditary behaviour than perhaps any other simple qualities .
Speaking broadly , parents of different statures transmit a blended heritage to their children , but parents of dffierent eye-colours transmit an alternative heritage .
If one parent is as much taller than the average of his or ber sex as the other parent is shorter , the statures of .
children will be distributed in much the same way as those of parents who were both of medium height .
But if one parent bas a light eye-colour and the other a dark eye-colour , the children will be partly light and partly dark , and not medium eye-coloured like the children of medium eye-coloured parents .
The blending in stature is due to its being the aggregate of the quasi- iudependent inheritances of many separate parts , while eye-colour 1886 .
] Family Likeness in Eye-colou/ appears to be much less various in its origin .
If then it can be shown , as I shall be able to do , that notwithstanding this two-fold difference between the qualities of stature and eye-colour , the shares of hereditary contribution from the various ancestors are in each case alike , we may with some confidence expect that the law by which those hereditary contributions are governed will be widely , and perhaps even universally , applicable .
Data.\mdash ; My data for hereditary eye-colour are drawn from the same collection of " " Records of Family Faculties\ldquo ; R.F.F.\ldquo ; ) as those upon which the above-mentioned inquiries into hereditary stature were principally based .
I then analysed the general value of these data in espect to stature , and showed that they were trustworthy .
I think they are somewhat more accurate in respect to eye-colour , for which family portraits often furnished direct mation , while indirect mation has been in other cases obtained from locks of hair that were preserved in the family as mementos .
I have also been able to collate some of my results with those lately published by M. Alphonse de Candolle , instituted an inquiry that has in many particulars , though not in the main object of the present memoir , covered the same ground as my own , and which was of course founded on an entirely different collection of data .
My conclusions in respect to those particulars , of which only a few find place here , are generally corroborated by his .
Persistence of Eye-colour in the Population.\mdash ; The first subject of our inquiry must be into the existence of any slow change in the statistics of eye-colour in the population that might have to be taken into account before drawing hereditary conclusions .
For this purpose I sorted the data , not according to the year of birth , but according to generations , as that method of procedure best accorded with the particular form in which all my R.F.F. data are compiled .
Those persons who ranked in the Family Records as the " " children\ldquo ; of the pedigree , were counted as generation I ; their parents , uncles and aunts , as generation II ; their grandparents , great uncIes , and great aunts , as generation III ; their great grandparents , and so forth , as generation .
No account was taken of the year of birth of the " " children except to learn their age ; consequently there is much overlapping of dales in successive generations .
We may , however , safely say , that the persons in generation I are quite different from those in generation III , and the persons in II from those in .
I had intended to exclude all children under the age of eight years , but in this particular branch of the inquiry , I fear that some cases of young children have been accidentally included .
I would ngly * Heredite de la couleur des yeux dans l'espece humaine par M. Alphonse de Candolle .
" " Arch. Sc. . .
et Not .
Geneve Aug. 1884 , 3rd period , vol. p. 97 .
404 Mr. F. Galton .
[ May 27 , -r : 1886 .
] Fanuly Likeness in Eye-colour .
Percentages of the Various Ey Genera Number casesof .
913 Generation IV .
2277 Total Males . . .
2213 , , Females .
Total cases . . . .
406 Mr. F. Galton .
[ May have taken a later limit than eight years , but could not spare the data that would in that case have been lost to me .
A great variety of terms are used by the various compilers of the " " Family Records\ldquo ; to express eye-colours .
I began by classifying them under the following eight heads : , light blue ; 2 , blue , dark blue ; , grey , blue-green ; 4 , dark grey , hazel ; 5 , light brown ; 6 , brown ; 7 , dark brown ; 8 , black .
Then I constructed Table I. The accompanying diagram will best convey the significance of the figures in Table I. Considering that the headings for different eyecolours are eight in number , the observations are far from being sufficiently numerous to justify us in expecting clean results ; nevertheless the curves come out surprisingly well , and in accordance with one another .
There can be little doubt that the change , if any , during four generations is very small , and much smaller than mere memory is competent to take note of .
I therefore disregard a current popular belief in the existence of a gradual darkening of the population , and shall treat eye-colours of those classes of the English race who have contribnted the records , as statistically persistent during the period under discussion .
The concurrence of the four curves for the four several generations affords some internal evidence of the trustworthiness of the data .
For supposing we had curves that exactly represented the true eye-colours for the four generations , they would either be concurrent or they would not .
If concurrent , the errors in the R.F.F. curves must have been so curiously distributed as to preserve the concurrence .
If not , the errors must have been so curiously distributed as to neutralise the non-concurrence .
Both of these suppositions are improbable , and we must conclude that the curves really agree , and that the R.F.F. errors are not large enough to spoil the agreement .
The much closer concurrence of the two curves , derived respectively from the whole of the male and the whole of the female data , and the still more perfect form of the curve derived from the aggregate of all the cases , are additional evidences in favour of the goodness of the data on the whole .
Fundamental Eye-colours.\mdash ; It is agreed among most writers on the subject ( cf. A. de Candolle ) that the one important division of eye- colours is into the light and the dark .
The medium tints are not numerous , and they may have four distinct origins .
They may be hereditary with no notable variation , they may be varieties of light parentage , they may be varieties of dark parentage , or they may be blends .
These medium tints are classed in under the heading " " 4 .
Dark grey , hazel and they form only per cent. of all the observed cases .
It is common in them to find the outer portion of the iris to be of a dark grey colour , and the inner of a hazel .
The proportion between the grey and the hazel varies in different cases , and colour is then described as dark grey or as hazel , accord1886 .
] Family Likeness in Eye-colour .
ing to the colour that happens most to arrest the attention of the observer .
For brevity , I will henceforth call all intermediate tints by the one name of hazel .
I will now investigate the history of those hazel eyes that are variations from light or from dark respectively , or that are blends between them .
It is reasonable to suppose that the residue which were inherited from hazel-eyed parents arose originally either as variations or as blends , and therefore the result of the investigation will enable us to assort the small but group of hazel eyes in an equitable proportion between light and dark , and thus to simplify our inquiry .
The family records include 168 families of brothers and sisters , counting only those who were above eight years of age , in whom one member at least had hazel eyes .
The total number of these brothers and sisters is 948 , of whom 302 or about one-third have hazel eyes .
For distinction I will describe these as " " hazel-eyed families\ldquo ; ; not meaning thereby that all the children have that peculiarity , but only some of them .
The eye-colours of all the 336 parents are given in the records , but only those of 449 of the grandparents , whose number would be 672 , were it not for a few cases of cousin marriages .
Thus I have information concerning about only two-thirds of the grandparents , but this will suffice for our purpose .
The results are given in Table II .
Table II.\mdash ; The Descent of Hazel-eyed Families .
It will be observed that the distribution of eye-colour among the grandparents of the hazel-eyed families is nearly identical with that among the population at large .
But among the parents there is a notable difference ; they have a decidedly smaller percentage of light eye-colour and a slightly smaller proportion of dark , while the hazel element is nearly doubled .
A similar change is superadded in the next generation .
The total result in passing from generation III to I , is that the percentage of the light eyes is diminished.from 60 or 61 to 45 , therefore by one quarter of its original amount , and that Mr. F. Galton .
[ May 27 , the percentage of the dark eyes is diminished from 26 or 27 to 23 , that is to about one-eighth of its original amount , the hazel element in either case absorbing the difference .
It follows that the chance of a light-eyed parent having hazel offispring , is about twice as great as that of a dark-eyed parent .
Consequently , since hazel is twice as likely to be met with in any given light-eyed family as in a given dark-eyed one , we may look upon two-thirds of the hazel eyes as being fundamentally light , and one-third of them as fundamentally dark .
I shall allot them rateably that proportion between light and dark , as nearly as may be without using fractions , and so get rid of them .
M. Alphonse de Candolle has also shown from his data , that yeuip gris ( which I take to be the equivalent of my hazel ) are referable to a light ancestry rather than to a dark one , but his data are numerically insufficient to warrant a precise estimate of the relative frequency of their derivation from each of these two sources .
Heredity of Light and Dark Eye-colour.\mdash ; In the following discussion I shall deal only with those family groups of children in which the eye- colours are known of the two parents and of the four grandparents .
There are altogether 211 of such groups , containing an aggregate of 1023 children .
They do not , however , belong to 211 different family stocks , because each stock which is complete up to the great grandparents inclusive ( and I have fourteen of these ) is capable of yielding three such groups .
Thus , group 1 contains , the " " children , the parents ; , the grandparents .
Group 2 contains , the father of the ' ' children his brothers and his sisters ; , the parents of the father ; , the grandparents of the father .
Group 3 contains the corresponding selections on the mother 's side .
Other family stocks furnish two groups .
Out of these and other data , Tables III and IV have been made .
In Table III I have classified the families together whose two parents and four grandparents present the same combination of eye-colour , no class , however , being accepted that contains less than twenty children .
These data will enable us to test the average correctness of the law I desire to verify , because many persons and many families appear in the same class , and individual peculiarities tend to disappear .
In Table IV I have separately classified on the same system all the famities , 78 in number , that consist of six or more children .
These data will enable us to test the trustworthiness of the law as applied to individual families .
It will be seen from my way of discussing them , that smaller families than these ould not be advantageously dealt with .
Table III.\mdash ; Sixteen Groups of Families , those being grouped together in whom the distribution of Light , Hazel , and Dark Eye-colour among their Parents and Grandparents is alike .
Each Group contains at least Twenty Brothers or Sisters .
Mr. F. Galton .
[ May 27 , Table IV.\mdash ; 78 Separate Families , each of not lessr than 6 Brothers or Sisters .
1886 .
] Family Likeness colour .
Table IV\mdash ; continued .
It will be noticed that I have not printed the number of dark-eyed children in either of these tables .
They are implicitly given , and instantly to be found by subtracting the , number of children from the total number of children .
Nothing would have been gained by their insertion , while compactness would have been sacrificed .
The entries in the tables are classified , as I said , according to the various combinations of light , hazel , and dark eye-colours in the parents and grandparents .
There are 6 different possible combinations among 412 .
F. Galton .
[ May 27 , the two parents , and 15 among the four grandparents ; making possible classes altogether .
The number of observations are of course by no means evenly distributed among the classes .
I have no returns at all under more than half of them , while the entries of two light-eyed parents and four light-eyed grandparents are proportionately very numerous .
( I shall not here discuss the question of marriage selection in respect to eye-colour , which is a less simple statistical question than it may appear to be at first sight .
) Calculation.\mdash ; I have now to show how the expectation of eyecolour among the children of a given family is to be calculated on the basis of the law laid down for stature , so that those calculations of the probable distribution of eye-colours may be made , which fill the three last columns of Tables III and , which are headed I , II , and III , and which are placed in taposition with the observed facts as entered in the column headed ' ' Observed These three columns contain calculations based on data limited in three different ways , in order the more thoroughly to test the applicability of the law that it is desired to verify .
Column I contains calculations based on a knowledge of the parents only ; II contains those based on a knowledge of the grandparents only ; III contains those based on a knowledge both of the parents and of the grandparents , and of them only .
I. Eye-colours given of the two parents\mdash ; Let the letter be used as a symbol to signify the person for whom the expected heritage is to be calculated .
Let stand for the words " " a parent of for " " a grandparent of for " " a great-grandparent of and so on .
Now suppose that the amount of the peculiarity of stature pos- sessed by is equal to , and that nothing whatever is known with certainty of any of the ancestors of except P. We have seen*that though nothing may be actually known , yet that something definite is implied about the ancestors of , namely , that each of his two parents ( who stand in the order of relationship of to M ) will on the average possess .
Similarly that each of the four grandparents of stand in the order of to will on the average possess , and so on .
Again we have seen that , on the average , transmits to only of his peculiarity ; that transmits only ; only and so on .
Hence the aggregate of the heritages that may be expected to converge through upon , is contained in the following series : \mdash ; *Ante , p. 42 No. 242 ) .
1886 .
] Family Likeness in Eye-colour .
That is to say , each parent must in this case be considered as contributing to the heritage of the child , or the two parents together as contributing , leaving an indeterminate residue of due to the influence of ancestry about whom nothing is either known or implied , except that they may be taken as members of the same race as M. In applying this problem to eye-colour , we must bear in mind that a given fractional chance that each member of a family will inherit either a light or a dark eye-colour , must be taken to mean that thal same fraction of the total number of children in the family will pro- bably possess it .
Also , as a consequence of this view of the meaning of a fractional chance , it follows that the residue of must be rateably assigned between light and dark eye-colour , in the proportion in which those eye-colours are found in the race generally , and this was seen to be ( see Table II ) as ; so I allot out of the above residue of to the heritage of light , and to the heritage of dark .
When the parent is hazel-eyed I allot of his total contribution of , i.e. , to , and , i.e. , to dark .
These chances are entered in the first pair of columns headed I , in Table Table V. 414 Mr. F. Galton .
[ May 27 , Table \mdash ; Example of one Calculation in each of the 3 Cases .
The pair of columns headed I in Table shows the way of summing the chances that are given in the columns with a similar heading in Table .
On the method there shown I calculated all the entries that appear in the columns with the heading I in Tables III and II .
Eye-colours given of the four grandparents\mdash ; Suppose to be possessed by and that nothing whatever is known with certainty of any other ancestor of M. Then it has been shown that the child of ( that is P ) will possess that each of the two pal'ents of ( who stand in the relation of to M ) will also possess ; that each of the four grandparents of ( who stand in the relation of to M ) will possess , and so on .
Also it has been shown that the shares of their several peculiarities that will on the average be transmitted by , \amp ; c. , are respectively .
Hence the aggregate of the probable heritages from are expressed by the following series:\mdash ; 1886 .
] Family Likeness in Eye-cotour .
So that each grandparent contributes on the avera.ge ( more exactly ) to the heritage of , and the four grandparents contribute between them , leaving 36 indeterminate , which when rateably assigned gives to light and to dark .
A hazel-eyed grandparent contributes , according to the ratio described in the last paragraph , to light and to dark .
All this is clearly expressed and employed in the columns II of Tables and III .
Eye-colours given of the two parents and four grandparents\mdash ; Suppose to possess , then taken alone , and not in connexion with what his possession of might imply concerning the contrihutions of the previous ancestry , will contribute an average of to the heritage of M. Suppose also to possess , then his contribution together with what his possession of may imply concerning the previous ancestry , was calculated iu the last raph as .
For the convenience of using round numbers I take this as .
So the two parents contribute between them , the four grandparents together with what they imply of the previous ancestry contribute , being an aggregate of , leaving a residue of to be rateably assigned as to light , and to dark .
A hazeleyed parent is here reckoned as contributing to light and to dark ; a hazel-eyed grandparent as contributing to light and to dark .
All this is tabulated in Table , and its working explained by example in the columns headed III of Table Results.\mdash ; A mere glance at Tables III and will show how surprisingly accurate the predictions are , and therefore how true the basis of the calculations must be .
Their average correctness is shown best by the totals in Table III , which give an regate of calculated numbers of light-eyed children under Groups I , II , III as 623 , 601 , and 614 respectively , when the observed numbers were 629 ; that is to say , they are correct in the ratios of 99 , 96 , and 98 to 100 .
Table Number of Errors of various Amounts in the 3 Calculations of the Numbers of Light Eye-coloured Children in the 78 Families .
TTata eoyed.referri .
Mr. J. Buchanan .
[ May 27 , Their trustworthiness when applied to individual families is shown as strongly in Table , whose results are conveniently summarised in Table .
I have there classified the amounts of error in the several calculations : thus if the estimate in any one family was -eyed children and the observed number was 4 , I should count the error as I have worked to one place of decimals in this table , in order to bring out the different shades of trustworthiness in the three sets of calculations , which thus become very apparent .
It will be seen that the calculations in Class III are by far the most precise .
Iu more than one-half of those calculations the error does not exceed , whereas in I and II more than three-quarters of them are wrong to at least that amount .
Only one-quarter of Class III are more than 11 in error , but some- where about the half of Classes I and II are wrong to that amount .
In comparing I with II , we find I to be slightly , but I think distinctly , the superior estimate .
The relative accuracy of III as compared with I and is what we should have expected , supposing the basis of the calculations to be true , because the additional knowledge utilised in III , over what is turned to account in I and II , must be an advantage .
Conclusion.\mdash ; The general trustworthiness of these calculations of the probable proportion of light-eyed and dark-eyed children in individual families , whose ancestral eye-colour is more or less known , is comparable with the chance of drawing a white or a black ball out of a bag in which the relative numbers of white and black balls are the same as those given by the calculation .
The larger the proportion of data derived from a certain knowledge of ancestral eye-colours , and not from inferences about them , the more true does the parison become .
My returns are insufficiently numerous and too subject to uncertainty of observation to make it worth whi.le to submit them to a more rigorous analysis , but the broad conclusion to which the present results irresistibly lead , is that the same peculiar hereditary relation that was shown to subsist between a man and each of his ancestors iu respect to the quality of stature , also subsists in respect to that of eye-colour .
II .
" " eneral Theorem in Electrostatic Induction , vithAppli- cation of it to the Origin of Electrification by Friction.\ldquo ; By JOHN BUCHANAN , B.Sc. , Demons.trator of University College , London .
Communicated by Professor G. AREY FOSTER , B.A. , F.R.S. Received May 13 , 1886 .
PART I. This paper contains the results of an investigation into the question : If a dielectric be brought into a field of electric force , and there its

