80 Mr. A. Willey .
On [ May 22 , the albumoses , but much more rapidly and severely .
The animal becomes ill directly after the injection , gradually becomes more and more sluggish , and dies in coma , or , if a non-lethal dose be given , it recovers from the state of stupor gradually .
After death enormous local subcutaneous oedema is found , with congestion and sometimes thrombosis of the small veins .
Peritoneal effusion is occasionally present , and the spleen is usually enlarged , dark , and congested , or simply congested without being greatly enlarged .
The fatal dose for a mouse weighing 22 grams is between 0'1 and 015 gram , death occurring in two to three hours .
The anthrax bacillus in digesting the alkali-albumin forms ( L ) proto-albumose , ( 2 ) deutero-albumose , ( 3 ) an alkaloid .
The alkalinity of the albumoses may explain their toxic properties , being due to the fact that the alkaloid is in a " nascent " condition in the albu-mose molecule .
The bacillus forms the alkaloid from the albumose , and it is possible that the living tissues have a similar action when the albumose is introduced into a living animal .
III .
" On the Development of the Atrial Chamber of .
" By Arthur Willey , Student of University College , London .
Communicated by Professor Ray Lankester , F.R.S. Received May 5 , 181)0 .
Preface .
Last year , through the kindness of Professor Lankester , I had the opportunity of spending several months\#151 ; May to August\#151 ; in Sicily , collecting the embryos and larvae of Since then I have been working continuously on the material I obtained in the laboratory of University College , under the direction of Professor Lankester .
The period of the development , to which Professor Lankester determined first of all to give attention , was that before which Hatschek 's wrell-known work stops short .
He proposed that I should cut sections , so as to ascertain the mode in which the atrial chamber takes its origin and the subsequent history of the gill-slits , viz. , as to how the slits on the left side of the pharynx originate .
The relation of the larval to the adult mouth and the details of the curious process of movement of the mouth from a unilateral to a median position were included in the scope of our enquiries .
Professor Lankester received a grant from the Government Grant Committee in aid of the present investigation , and it is therefore necessary to state that he has constantly supervised my work , and allows 1890 .
] Development of the Atrial Chamber of Amphioxus .
81 me to publish in my own name a summary of the results which I have obtained under his guidance .
Amphioxus occurs in great numbers in a comparatively small lake , or pantano , which is situated behind , and separated from the sea by , the village of Faro , near Messina .
It is connected with the Straits of Messina by a narrow canal , some two or three hundred yards in length .
The bottom of the pantano , in contrast to that of the Straits , consists of foul mud ; and it may be mentioned in this connexion , as I was informed by Professor Kleinenberg , that Amphioxus is only occasionally met with in the Straits , and is entirely absent from another larger pantano which lies behind the neighbouring village of Ganzirri , and is joined by a short canal to the one at Faro .
The embryos float on the surface , and are to be had by dredging on the surface at sunrise , but the readiest method of obtaining them in quantity is to take the adults in glasses and allow them to spawn there , if they will .
Spawning takes place about an hour after sundown .
The ova , if fertilised , must be very carefully distributed among several glasses containing clean , but unfiltered , water from the pantano .
If the water is filtered , or if sea water is employed , or if too many ova are placed in one glass , they will certainly either die or develop abnormally .
The first outward and visible sign of fertilisation is the separation from the egg-cell of the yolk-membrane .
Most , if not all , of the ova that I obtained were discharged through the atriopore .
If Kowalewsky* had not seen them issuing from the mouth , it would not have been easy to understand how they could pass into the pharynx in opposition to the constant outflow of water between the gill-bars .
Segmentation always commences at dusk\#151 ; between the hours of seven and eight\#151 ; and goes on very rapidly through the night .
The early stages have been so fully described by Hatschekf that I will only refer to them in the briefest manner .
At 8 p.m. segmentation commences ; at 11 p.m. invagination commences ; at 1 a.m. the gastrula is complete ; at 3 a.m. the gastrula begins to revolve by cilia within the yolk-membrane ; and at 5 a.m. two pairs of myocoelomic pouches have been formed , and the embryo ruptures the egg-membrane and becomes free-swimming .
During the first day the embryo grows in length and adds several pairs of somites .
By about eight o'clock on the second morning , that * " Entwick .
des Ampli .
lane .
" ( ' Mem. Acad. Imper , des Sciences de St. Pefcers-bourg , ' Series VII , vol. 11 , 1867 .
) t Claus 's ' Arbeiten , ' 1881 .
TOli .
XLV1II .
G 82 Mr. A. Willey. .
On the [ May 22 , ^ is , thirty-six hours after the commencement of segmentation , the embryo has acquired a mouth on the left side of the body , and a gill-slit , which arises at first in the median ventral line , and subsequently comes to lie on the right side of the body .
The anus is formed soon after the appearance of the mouth and first gill-slit .
The embryonic period is now at an end , and the larval period begins .
As Hatschek states , the only way of obtaining the larval stages is by pelagic fishing .
This consists in dredging at depths varying from fifteen to twenty fathoms .
At this depth the larvae float in the midst of countless thousands of Sagitta larvae .
A long , but not yet clearly ascertained interval ( probably about a fortnight ) elapses between the formation of the first and second gill-clefts .
In the period during which it is free-swimming the larva acquires from twelve to fifteen consecutive unpaired gill-slits , each one arising in the mid-ventral line , and then growing in such a manner as to lie on the right side of the body .
This applies to the anterior two-thirds of the pharynx , but I am not quite clear yet as to whether the last two or three median slits ever move up to the right side .
Meanwhile , longitudinal ridges which are subsequently concerned in the formation of the atrium have appeared ( see fig. 6 ) .
At the time of the completion of the atrium , which occurs at the close of the larval period , some remarkable changes in the relative position of parts of the body in the anterior region take place , by which the mouth becomes median , and the gill-slits are arranged in two series , a right and a left .
The larva emerges from this critical phase in its development as a symmetrical animal , but the details of the process of symmetrisation\#151 ; the strongly-marked character of which justifies the use of an otherwise undesirable term\#151 ; are still rather obscure .
The larva , now really a young Amphioxus , with atrium and paired gill-slits , ceases to lead a pelagic life , and takes to the sand , where it passes the rest of its life .
Spawning occurs at least from April to September inclusive .
The best month , however , in which to obtain the embryos is June , while all the larval stages , up to the passage into the adult form , are to be found during July and August .
Previous View as to the Formation of the Atrium .
The hitherto accepted method of formation of the atrial chamber of Amphioxus is that described by Kowalewsky , * and more fully by Rolph.f # * Arcliiv fur Mikrosk .
Anat .
, ' vol. 13 , 1877 .
t ' Morphol .
Jalirbuch , ' vol. 2 , 1876 . !
1890 .
] Development of the Atrial Chamber of Ampbioxus .
83 Kowalewsky says that after a certain number of gill-slits have !
been formed two longitudinal folds appear on opposite sides of the I body , which grow round and meet , and finally fuse together in the median ventral line , leaving a wide aperture at one end\#151 ; the atrio-pore .
His figures , two of which are here reproduced ( figs. 1 and Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Copies of Kowalewsky 's figures of transverse sections through a larva of Amphioxus with fully-formed atrium .
Fig. 1 represents a section taken between pharynx and atriopore ; and fig. 2 , one taken just behind the atriopore of the same larva .
Int. Intestine .
at .
Atrium .
l.h. Coelom .
bear this description out , more or less , while Rolph 's schematic figures bear it out entirely .
The latter are reproduced in figs. 3 , 4 , and 5 .
Fig. 3 .
Copy of Rolph 's theoretical section through the pharyngeal region of a larva , before the commencement of the so-called epipleural folds .
N. Nerve-cord .
Ch. Notochord .
M. Muscles .
Lh .
Coelom .
D. Intestine .
a. Intestinal epithelium .
b. Epidermis .
G 2 Mr. A. Willey .
On the [ May 22 , Fig. 4 .
Copy from Rolph of a similar section through an older larva , showing the commencing longitudinal downgrowths .
22 .
Epidermis .
7\amp ; 1 .
Inner epithelium of the ( future ) atrial cavity .
Outer epithelium of same .
U. Subcutaneous tissue .
Other letters as in fig. 3 .
Eig .
5 .
Copy from Rolph of a similar section showing the meeting together of the c\lt ; e'pi'pleura " in the ventral middle line .
A. Atrium .
R. Raphe .
Other letters as in figs. 3 and 4 .
1890 .
] Development of the Atrial Chamber of Amphioxtis .
85 ' The most serious error in Kowalewsky 's view lies in the fact that he makes the space in the lateral outgrowths continuous with the body-cavity , and consequently calls it " Leibeshohle , " or coelom .
This space , as we shall see , does not belong to the true coelom , and is not traceable as a space to the original myoccelomic pouches , but are \gt ; ses apparently as an inter-cellular space in the midst of the connective tissue\#151 ; in fact , it would seem to belong to that category of spaces to which the term " pseudocoel " has been applied .
In this respect it stands in contrast to the spaces in connexion with the dorsal and ventral fins , which have been shown by Hatschek to be derived directly from the myocoelomic pouches .
Rolph 's figures ( figs. 3 , 4 , 5 ) do not profess to be more than diagrams .
They show the epipleur originating as a depending ridge on each side of the pharynx ( fig. 4 ) .
Into this ridge the coelom is extended .
The epipleura meet finally in the middle line below the pharynx according to this theory ( fig. 5 ) .
It is no doubt true that the scheme of growth thus sketched by Rolph , and based upon Kowalewsky 's erroneous figures , would account satisfactorily for the condition of the atrial chamber and its epipleural walls as observed in the adult .
It also gives a basis for the suggestion made by Kowalewsky that the epipleura are comparable to the opercula of Teleostean fish .
I now propose to show that this view is based on erroneous observation .
Formation of the Atrial Chamber as observed by me .
The first indication of the commencing formation of the atrial chamber is to be found in larvae with nine or ten gill-slits on the right side .
Behind the region of the pharynx we find that the midline of the body has become marked with a narrow groove , so that in section it is bifid ( fig. 6 ) .
The short upstanding ridges which limit the groove are the metapleura of the adult .
Though at first solid , the connective tissue within the ridge soon becomes hollowed , and forms a lymph space which never has any obvious connexion with the ccelom .
These ridges can be traced from about the middle of the larva 's body forward towards the pharyngeal region , where they diverge considerably from one another .
That belonging to the animal 's left side keeps a more or less median position , and can .
be traced ( though but small in elevation ) when twelve gill-slits are present as a ridge situated at the lower or ventral margin of the gill-slits and dying out in the anterior region of the pharynx .
The right-hand ridge , or metapleur , takes a course to the right of the gill-slits ( which , it will be remembered , are on the right side of the body ) , and overhangs the upper limit , of the slits to a small extent .
It dies out in front of the first gill-slit , where it bends towards the middle line .
Mr. A. Willey .
On [ May 22 , Fig. 6 .
7 .
IfiGk 6.\#151 ; Transverse section through a larva with eleven or twelve unpaired gill-slits and with lateral mouth , showing the minute sub-atrial ridges .
d.m. Dorsal division of myoccel in which the fin-ray will lie when it is developed .
nc .
Nerve-cord .
nch .
Notochord .
m. Muscle-plate .
my .
Cavity of myocoel .
d.a. Dorsal aorta .
Int. Intestine .
d.l.m. Double-layered membrane separating the myoccel from the splanch-nocoel .
sp. Primitive splanchnocoel .
v.a. Yentral vessel .
met .
Metapleur .
s.a.r. Sub-atrial ridges .
Fia .
7.\#151 ; Transverse section through a slightly older larva .
The sub-atrial ridges ( s.a.r. ) have fused for a short distance between atriopore and pharynx ; but in the pharyngeal region the atrium is unclosed , and consequently the gill-slits still open directly to the exterior .
at .
Atrium* The atrium is formed by a small horizontal growth { s.a.r. in fig. 6 ) , which starts from the inner face of each metapleur and floors in the deeper half of the groove or area between the two metapleura ( fig. 7 , at .
) .
These horizontal growths may be called the sub-atrial folds* 1890 .
] Development of the Atrial Chamber of Amphioxus .
87 They are at first extremely small , and the atrial space floored in is a mere canal .
Later the width , of the atrial space increases greatly , and the sub-atrial folds consequently widen also , becoming that pleated expansible floor of the atrial chamber , with its transverse muscular layer , which all observers of know so well ( fig. 9 , The atrial groove becomes floored in first in the region of the atriopore .
The growth of the sub-atrial folds extends gradually forwards , and the closure proceeds along one side ( the right ) of the pharynx .
The whole atrium thus formed is a very small tube-like space .
The closure by means of the small horizontal sub-atrial outgrowths in the region of the large gill-slits is somewhat difficult to explain .
The small left metapleur actually moves in course of growth from the mid-line , and rises on to the right side somewhat .
At the same time the much larger right metapleur is deepened , and overhangs the slits .
Then the little horizontal junction is effected , and we get actually a nearly tubular atrium receiving the openings of successive gill slits .
With subsequent growth the narrow atrial Transverse section through an advanced larva with fully-closed atrium .
The latter has begun to encroach on the coelom ( sp ) .
Letters as in figs. 6 and 7 .
Fig. 8 .
The Atrial Chamber of Amphioxus .
[ May 22 , Fig. 9 .
m ... . .
If I h\#151 ; l^iS Transverse section through an adult Amphioxus .
The atrium has grown up so as to divide the primitive splanchnoccel into two portions\#151 ; an inner or splanchnic , and an outer or parietal , portion ( sp ' .
and sp. " ) .
gp .
The portion of the primitive splanchnoccel which is not so affected by the atrium , and which persists as the dorsal coelom .
sp " .
The parietal part of the splanchnocoel , gp ' " .
Its expansion as perigonadial coelom .
f.r. Fin-ray .
Other letters as in figs. 6 and 7 .
( The above figures 6\#151 ; 9 are all somewhat diagrammatic .
) tube \#166 ; widens and pushes itself right and left , so as to encroach on the space hitherto occupied by the coelom , and finally it extends so far dorsalwards as nearly to surround the alimentary canal ( see figs. 8 and 9 ) .
The evidence of this history , in the form of careful drawings of consecutive sections from snout to atriopore , at various stages in the closure of the atrium , I purpose to publish shortly in the ' Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science .
' For the present I am anxious to point out , firstly , that this mode of formation of the atrium as a narrow groove , which Closes and sinks ( as it were ) into the body of the Amphioxus , 1890 .
] On Rapid Variations of a Difference of Potential .
89 is really different in important respects from the enclosure of a space by downgrowth of large folds , though ultimately no doubt the two contrasted modes of formation come to the same thing so far as the more obvious morphological relations are concerned .
The mode of formation which really occurs in is readily harmonised with the existence of the post-atrioporal extension of the atrium which gradually tapers to a fine csecal canal .
It also gives us an essentially different view of the region called " epipleur " by Lan-kester , and generally so designated , from that which Rolph 's theory necessitated .
That portion of the epiplenr into which the myotomes of the body-wall extend is seen now to be no downgrowth , no extension or fold .
It is the original unchanged body-wall which hounds the sides of the animal 's body in front of the atriopore , just as much as it does behind .
The only new growth in the atrial region which takes part in the limitation of the surface is the sub-atrial growth formed by the two little horizontal folds which floor in the atrium when it is a mere canal .
These in the adult are represented by the limited region of longitudinally pleated ventral wall between the two metapleura .
Lastly , the formation of the atrium as a narrow groove which closes , sinks into , and expands within the body of Amphioxus , is much more readily comparable to what is known of the formation of the atrial chamber in the Ascidians than is the Kowalewsky-Rolph scheme .
In the Ascidian a pair of in-pushings are formed , each with a circular orifice of invagination ; they expand within the body , fuse with one another to form one cavity , and one of the circular orifices disappears .
In AmpMoxuswe have a single in-pushing with a longitudinal orifice of invagination , which closes as the invagination forms , excepting at its hindermost border , and then expands to a greatly increased volume .
The comparison of the so-called epipleura of Amphioxus with the opercula of Fishes has only a remote morphological basis , and probably no genetic relationship exists between these two structures .
IV .
" On a Method of determining the Value of Rapid Variations of a Difference of Potential by means of the Capillary Electrometer .
" By George J. Burch , B.A. Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received April 25 , 1890 .
In 1882 a paper by Professor Burdon Sanderson* appeared in the Biologisches Centralblatt , ' in which an account was given of the * \#174 ; urtl'n Sanderson , " Die elektrischen Erscheinungen am Dionaeablatt , " * Biologisches Centralblatt , ' 15 Oct. , 1882. .

