I. " On the Development and Succession of the Teeth in the Marsupialia .
" By WILLIAM HENRY FLOWER , F.R.S. , F.R.C.S. , &amp;c. , Conservator of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England .
( Abstract .
) Although the dentition of adult individuals of all the animals which constitute the remarkable Order or , rather , Subclass Marsupialia , has been repeatedly subjected to examination , and described with exhaustive minuteness of detail , it is a singular circumstance that most of those peculiarities in the succession of their teeth which distinguish them from other mammals appear hitherto to have escaped observation .
To supply this blank is the object of the present communication .
Fortunately the materials at my disposal , although not quite so complete as might be desired , are yet amply sufficient to illustrate the main aspects of the question , and to supply a result as interesting as it was unexpected .
Descriptions are given in the paper , accompanied by drawings , of several stages of the dentition of members of each of the six natural families into which the order is divided .
1 .
Macropodidce.-The dentition of the Kangaroo ( genus Macropus ) , from the completely edentulous foetus to adult age , is described in detail .
Contrary to what has been specially stated with regard to this genus , there are no deciduous or milk-incisors , the teeth of this group which are first formed and calcified in both jaws being those which are retained throughout the life of the animal .
The rudimentary canine and first premolar have also no deciduous predecessors .
The second tooth of the molar series ( a true molar in form ) is vertically displaced by a premolar .
The four true molars have , as has long been known , no deciduous predecessors .
There is thus but one tooth on each side of each jaw in which the phenomenon of diphyodont succession occurs .
The period at which this takes place varies in different species of the family .
In some forms of Hypsiprymnus , the successional premolar is not cut until after the last true molar is in place and use , -this probably having relation to the extraordinary size of the tooth , and the time consequently required for its development .
A special characteristic of this family is the tendency to lose the canine and one or both premolars at a comparatively early period of life .
2 .
Phalangistidce.-Several early stages of the dentition of Phalangista vulpina are described and figured .
In a young specimen in which no teeth had cut the gum , the crowns of the permanent incisors , canine , and first two molars were found to be calcified , and the germ of the permanent premolar was already formed beneath the milkor deciduous molar , which , as in Macropus , is the only tooth which is shed and replaced by a successor .
The change takes place at an earlier period than in the last family .
3 .
Peramelidce.-No very early stages of Perameles were examined ; but adolescent specimens of this genus and of Chceropus show that a very minute , compressed , molariform tooth is replaced by the triangular , pointed , third or posterior premolar .
No other signs of vertical displacement and succession were observed .
4 .
Didelphide .
In the American genus Didelphys , the observations are complete from the earliest stage , and show that , as in the Australian Macropodidce and Phalanyistidce , none of the teeth of the permanent series have predecessors except the compressed pointed last premolar , which replaces a tooth having the broad multicuspidate crown of a true molar .
This change does not occur until the animal apiproaches the adult age .
5 .
Dasyuridte .
In a fetal Thylacinus , in which no teeth had cut the gum , the crowns of the permanent incisors , canines , premolars , and anterior true molars were partially calcified , and necessarily much crowded together in the jaw .
A very minute rudimentary molar was situated just beneath the alveolar mucous membrane , superficially to the apex of the hindermost premolar , and was evidently its milk-predecessor .
6 .
Phascolomyid &amp; e.-This family is placed last because the observations regarding it are less complete than in the case of any of the others .
The youngest Wombat available presented no evidence of succession of any of the teeth ; but it is probable that the single premolar is preceded by a milk-molar , at a still earlier period than any examined .
From the foregoing observations it may be concluded with tolerable safety that the animals of the Order Marsupialia present a peculiar condition of dental succession , uniform throughout the order , and distinct from that of all other mammals .
This peculiarity may be thus briefly expressed .
The teeth of Marsupials do not vertically displace and succeed other teeth , with the exception of a single tooth on each side of each jaw .
The tooth in which a vertical succession takes place is always the corresponding or homologous tooth , being the hindermost of the premolar series* , which is preceded by a tooth having the characters , more or less strongly expressed , of a true molar .
It has been usual to divide the class Maammalia , in regard to the mode of formation and succession of their teeth , into two groups the Monophyodonts , or those that generate a single set of teeth , and the Diphyodonts , or those that generate two sets of teeth ; but even in the most typical diphyodonts the successional process does not extend to the whole of the teeth , always stopping short of those situated most posteriorly in each series .
The Marsupials occupy an intermediate position , presenting as it were a rudimentary diphyodont condition , the successional process being confined to a single tooth on each side of each jaw .
This position , however , is by no means without analogy among the mammals of the placental series .
In the Dugong and the existing Elephants the successional process is limited to the incisor teeth .
It is questionable whether the first premolar of those animals of this group which have four premolar teeth , as the Hog , Dog ( mandible ) , &amp;c. , ever has a deciduous predecessor , at all events so far advanced as to have reached the calcified stage .
But the closest analogy with the marsupial mode of succession is found among the Rodents .
Here the incisors appear to have no deciduous predecessors ; and in the Beaver , Porcupine , and others , which have but four teeth of the molar series , i. e. three true molars and one premolar , the latter is , exactly as in the Marsupials , the only tooth which succeeds a deciduous tooth .
The analogy , however , does not hold in those Rodents which have more than one premolar , as the Hare ; for in this case each of these teeth has its deciduous predecessor .
In the preceding account I have used the term " permanent " for those teeth which remain in use throughout the animal 's life , or , if they fall out ( as do the rudimentary canines and the premolars of the Macropodidce ) , do not give place to successional teeth ; and I have therefore assumed that the milk or temporary dentition of the typical diphyodont mammals is represented in the Marsupials only by the deciduous molars .
It may be held , on the other hand , that the large majority of the teeth of the Marsupials are the homologues of the milk or first teeth of the diphyodonts , and that it is the permanent or second dentition which is so feebly represented by the four successional premolars .
This view is supported by many general analogies in animal organization and development , such as the fact that the permanent state of organs of lower animals often represents the immature or transitional condition of the same parts in beings of higher organization .
Looking only to the period of development of the different teeth in some of the marsupial genera , we might certainly be disposed to place the successional premolar in a series by itself , although , indeed , all its morphological characters point out its congruity with the row of teeth among which it ultimately takes its place , the reverse being the case with its predecessor .
It is , however , almost impossible , after examining the teeth of the young Thylacine described and figured in the paper , to resist the conclusion originally suggested .
The unbroken series of incisors , canines , premolars , and anterior true molars of nearly the same phase of development , with posterior molars gradually added as age advances , form a striking contrast to the temporary molar , so rudimental in size , and transient in duration .
I can scarcely doubt that the true molars of this animal would be identified by every one as homologous with the true molars of the diphyodonts , which are generally regarded as belonging to the permanent series , although they never have deciduous predecessors .
Now , if the homology between the true molars of the Thylacine and those of a Dog , for instance , be granted , and if the anterior teeth ( incisors , canines , and premolars ) of the Thylacine be of the same series as its own true molars , they must also be homologous with the corresponding permanent teeth of the Dog .
It may be objected to this argument , that the true molars of the diphyodonts , not being successional teeth , ought to be regarded as members of the first or milkseries ; but , in truth , the fact that they have themselves no predecessors does not make them serially homologous with the predecessors of the other teeth , while their morphological characters , as well as their habitual persistence throughout life , range them with the second or permanent series .
We have been so long accustomed to look upon the second set of teeth as an after-development or derivative from the first , that it appears almost paradoxical to suggest that the milkor deciduous teeth may rather be a set superadded to supply the temporary needs of mammals of more complex dental organization .
But it should be remembered that , instead of there being any such relation between the permanent and the milk-teeth as that expressed by the terms " progeny " and " parent " ( sometimes applied to them ) , they are both ( if all recent researches into their earlier development can be trusted ) formed side by side from independent portions of the primitive dental groove , and may rather be compared to twin brothers , one of which , destined for early functional activity , proceeds rapidly in its development , while the other makes little progress until the time approaches when it is called upon to take the place of its more precocious locum tenens .
Many facts appear to point to the milk-teeth as being the less constant and important of the two sets developed in diphyodont dentition .
Among these the most striking is the frequent occurrence of this set in a rudimentary and functionless or , as it were , partially developed state .
The milkpremolars of some Rodents ( as the Guinea-pig ) , shed while the animal is in utero , the simple structure and evanescent nature of the milk-teeth of the Bats , Insectivores , and Seals , the diminutive first incisors of the Dugongs and Elephants , all appear to be cases in point .
On the other hand , examples of the commencing or sketching out , as it were , of the successors to a well-formed , regular , and functional first set of teeth , are rarely , if ever , met with .
Occasional instances of the habitual early decadence , or , perhaps , absence of some of the second or so-called permanent teeth occur in certain animals ; but these are rather examples of the disappearance or suppression of organs of which there is no need in the economy , and chiefly occur in isolated and highly modified members of groups in the other members of which the same phenomenon does not occur , as in Cheiromys among the Lemurs , Trichechus among the Seals , and the recent Elephants ( as regards the premolars ) among the Proboscideans .
They form no parallel to the cases mentioned above of the rudimentary formation of an entire series of teeth of the temporary or milk-set .
To return to the marsupials:-If this view be correct , I should be quite prepared to find , in phases of development earlier than those yet examined , some traces either of the papillary , follicular , or saccular stages of milkpredecessors to other of the teeth besides those determinate four in which , for some reason at present unexplained , they arrive at a more mature growth* .
Such proof as this would alone decide the truth of these specu* It may be remarked that the milk-tooth , which alone is developed in the Marsu lations ; and I have not at present either the requisite leisure or materials for following out so delicate an investigation .
I trust that the facts already elicited are sufficiently novel and important to justify my bringing them , as they now stand , before the Society .

