Some Observations and ExpeHiments on the Papyri found in the Ruins of Herculaneum .
By Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read March 15 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 191 .
] Having in some preliminary experiments upon fragments of a roll of papyrus found at Herculaneum , the leaves of which adhered very strongly together , ascertained that it afforded , by exposure to heat , a considerable quantity of inflammable gaseous matter ; that when digested in nitric and muriatic ether it coloured those fluids ; and that , when immersed in an atmosphere of chlorine , it was evidently acted upon ; -Sir Humphry Davy concluded that there yet remained in these papyri no inconsiderable portion of undecomposed vegetable matter .
With this information he proceeded to examine the collection preserved at Naples ; and after detailing the state of the manuscripts , he describes the methods resorted to for detaching the layers and ascertaining their contents .
These methods were considerably varied , according to the state of the manuscripts .
Those which were pale chestnut-coloured , and covered with white ashes , were so far destroyed as to render all attempts at arriving at any knowledge of their contents quite hopeless .
Two manuscripts of firmer texture , and having the appearance of peat , were unrolled when acted upon by chlorine and heat , but they had been rendered illegible.by the previous operation of water .
All the best specimens of the black and more perfect manuscripts had been operated upon before Sir Humphry 's arrival at Naples ; so that of these there were only some remaining fragments , from many of which he however succeeded in obtaining parts of columns , by which their contents may be judged of .
On the black manuscripts containing white earthy matter in their folds several experiments were tried , but they were rarely successful , from the firm agglutination of the fibres of the papyrus .
After having adverted to the various impediments that were opposed to these proceedings , by the persons under whose care and superintendence the Herculaneum manuscripts at Naples were placed , and which rendered it improper to attempt continuing the inquiry , Sir Humphry concludes this paper with some general observations .
The Roman manuscripts are generally on a thicker papyrus , and in larger characters , though less perfect than the Greek ones .
None of them contain those vestiges of oxide of iron which would have been detected had ink of galls and iron been employed : indeed it is probable , says Sir Humphry Davy , that the use of this ink and that of parchment were introduced at the same time ; for the ink composed of charcoal and solution of glue will scarcely adhere to skin , whereas the free &amp; acid of the chemical ink partly dissolves the gelatine of the manuscripts , and the whole adheres as a mordant .
In the whole collection of manuscripts , no fragments of Greek , and only very few of Latin poetry , have been found ; they are almost exclusively the productions of the Greek Epicurean philosophers and sophists .
Copies of the fragments unrolled by Sir I-Iumphry Davy , --being fac-similes of the original imitations , executed by Sir William Gell , -are annexed to this communication .

