An Account of a Method of dividing Astronomical and other Instruments , by ocular Inspection ; in which the usual Tools for graduating are not employed ; the whole Operation being so contrived , that no Error can occur but what is chargeable to Vision , when assisted by the best optical Means of viewing and measuring minute Quantities .
By Mr. Edward Troughton .
Communicated by the Astronomer Royal .
Read February 2 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 105 .
] The description of the method is preceded by some account of the steps by which the author acquired his present skill in the division of instruments , and by observations on the comparative merits of the respective methlods employed by Bird , by the late Mr. JohnTroughton , and by other artists ; after which Mr. Troughton proceeds to the account of his own , which , he says , was first suggested by the action of the perambulator .
In the first place , the circle to be divided is to be turned on its inner and outer edges , to correct circles , in the most exact and careful manner .
A roller is then adapted to its edge , having its diameter , as nearly as possible , one sixteenth that of the circle ; and since perfect equality could not be directly obtained , the exterior surface of the roller is rendered slightly conical , by a difference of T- , Wth of an inch in the diameters of its upper and under surface ; so that by a small motion in the direction of its axis , some one part of its surface may be found perfectly adapted to its purpose .
The roller itself being next divided into sixteen parts , each of these will corre , spond with -2 -5th of the whole circle ; a number chosen on account of its being capable of continual bisection , although these divisions will coincide with a very small number of the ultimate divisions of the circle .
By means of two microscopes , one over the circle , and the other over the roller , the correct adaptation of the circle and roller to each other is first ascertained , or duly adjusted by raising or depressing the roller .
An instrument for making dots , with uniformity , is next to be fixed at a due distance from the edge of the circle ; and when one division of the roller is brought exactly under the wire of its microscope , the pointer being pressed down , makes the first dot at any point which may have been previously fixed upon .
When the second division of the roller comes under its wire , a second dot is made in a similar manner , and so on till the whole 256 are completed , at intervals that are nearly equal .
But it is not really of any consequence how erroneous they may be found by the very important process of examination which is next to follow , and which constitutes the intrinsic excellence of this method .
The dividing apparatus having next been removed , the circle is to be placed in the same position it is intended to have when employed for observation ; and two microscopes are to be placed , at opposite sides , for the examination of the point of 180 ? .
The dot at zero , and that at 1800 , being first bisected , the circle is turned half round ; and if when the zero point is bisected , that at 180 ?
is found not to be bisected , the apparent error of its position is measured by the micrometer , and the half of that quantity is noted in a table + or - , according as its position is found forward or backward in the intended order of the future divisions .
The four quadrants are next examined in the same manner , by removing the micrometer microscope to a position 90 ?
distant .
Half the observed error is again the real difference of the two portions of semicircle compared ; and since the sum of the quadrants ( though not accurately 180 ?
) is knlown by the previous examination , the quantities themselves are known , and the real error of each quadrant is then noted .
In a similar manner the succeeding bisectional points , at the distances from each other of 450 , 22 ? ?
30 ' , 110 15 ' , 50 371 30 " , 2 ? ?
48 ' 45 " , and 13 24 ' 22I " , are successively examined ; and the real errors of the several dots , from their true places , are computed and arranged in a table , so that by means of the dots themselves , together with their tabulated errors , the true places for the future divisions may be correctly known .
For the purpose of laying off these ultimate divisions , the circle is again placed in a horizontal position , and the roller is again applied to it .
But as it would not be easy to divide the roller itself with sufficient exactness , a sector is added to the apparatus , having its radius four times that of the roller .
This sector being fitted tight on the axis of the roller , moves with an angular velocity , which is sixteen times that of the circle ; so that one of the formler divisions of the circle is measured by an arc upon the sector of 22 ? ?
30 ' .
But since the ultimate divisions are intended to be 5 ' each , this-sectorial arc must be divided into spaces of 80 ' each ; and of these spaces 1 6 .
will be equal to 220 30 ' , and will correspond with the true 256th part of the circle , or average space between the dots before laid down .
The sector has consequently marked upon it eighteen intervals of 80 ' each , the first and last of which are subdivided into eight parts of 10 ' each .
The fractional parts at each extremity are for the purpose of making the requisite coincidences with the former bisectional dots , and the intermediate sixteen divisions are the scale by which the true divisions are laid down .
Since this sector , though very correctly divided , may be liable to central error , its arc is made capable of a small adjustment , whereby 16-iths of its divisions are , by trial , made to correspond accurately with.-th part of the circle .
For cutting the divisions , the same apparatus is employed as was used by Ramsden in his dividing engine , but originally invented by Hindley , of York .
These , together with the two micrometer microscopes , constitute the whole apparatus to be employed .
The dividing point is first placed over that part of the circle at which the divisions are intended to be begun , while one of the microscopes is fixed accurately over the first of the 256 dots ; and at the same time the first division of the sector is made to correspond with the wire of the second microscope .
The first division being now made , the circle is carried forward by a slow motion till the second division of the sector comes under the wire of its microscope , and the second division is now made upon the circle .
The succeeding divisions , to the sixteenth , are all made in the same manner .
In the next place , the error of the second bisectional dot is to be set off by the micrometer head of the first microscope ; and the contemporaneous coincidence of this dot , with that of the seventh of the succeeding small divisions of the sector , is to be observed , and then the sector must be moved backwards upon its axle sixteen divisions ; so that it will have to move forward again by the motion of the circle one eighth of a division before the seventeenth division upon the circle is to be cut .
The succeeding divisions follow in due course to the thirty-second , when allowance must be again made for the known error of the third dot , and the work proceeds in the same manner to the completion of the circle .
In the application of this method to the instrument now constructing for the Royal Observatory , which is to be divided on its edge , instead of having the divisions upon the face of the instrument , nothing new in principle is requisite , but merely a new position given to the roller , and other apparatus employed ; but as that instrument may deserve a particular description , the author hopes to have an opportunity of giving an account of its construction , to the Society , at no very distant period .

