95 Further Observations on the Effects produced on Rats by the Trypanosomata of Gambia Fever and of Sleeping Sickness .
By H. G. Plimmer , F.L.S. ( Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received November 21 , \#151 ; Read December 13 , 1906 .
) [ Plate 1 .
] In January , 1905 , I published* a note of some experiments with the above-named strains of trypanosomata , and I have continued the experiments up to the present time , and have embodied the total results in this paper .
1 .
Gambia Fever .
The number of rats inoculated with this strain of trypanosomata was altogether 129 in 90 successive inoculations .
In all of these rats , with the exception of the five mentioned below , trypanosomata were present in the blood from two to three weeks after inoculation ( average time 18 days ) until death ; generally in good numbers , and increasing to large numbers for some days before death .
The spleen was , in these cases , very much enlarged , and there was considerable blood destruction , with large numbers of poly-chromatophile corpuscles , these being the most obvious gross signs .
In the first 14 of these rats , as noted in the paper referred to above , no paralytic symptoms were present , but out of the total number inoculated , five became paraplegic , and the course of the disease in these animals differed from that in the remaining 124 .
In the series , the numbers of the paraplegic rats were 35 , 42 , 68 , 101 , 102 , and there were no perceptible differences in their conditions and those of the other rats used .
The first rat which became paralysed ( No. 35 , of the 25th inoculation ) was inoculated on March 17 , 1905 , and on the 31st of the same month both hind legs became paralysed .
No trypanosomata were found in the blood until April 18 , and from that time till death , which took place on April 28 , only a few were to be found in ordinary blood films .
The second rat ( No. 42 , of the.28th inoculation ) was inoculated on April 13 , 1905 , from the blood of another rat which had been 20 hours in the stomach of a leech , in which some of the trypanosomata will live for at least 36 hours .
The rat became paraplegic on June 15 , at which time no trypanosomata could be found in ordinary blood films .
The rat was killed on June 16 , and a few trypano* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 .
96 Mr. Plimmer .
Effects on Rats of the Trypanosomata [ Nov. 21 , somata were found both in the centrifugalised blood and in smears made from the spinal cord .
The third rat ( No. 68 , of the 42nd inoculation ) was inoculated on September 26 , 1905 , and became paraplegic on December 13 .
No trypanosomata could be found in ordinary blood films in 17 examinations made during the disease , nor at the time of death .
The animal died on January 3 , 1906 , when a few trypanosomata were found in the centrifugalised blood , and in smears from the spinal cord .
The fourth and fifth rats ( Nos. 101 and 102 , of the 70th inoculation ) were inoculated on May 26 , 1906 , and on July 17 No. 101 became paralysed in the right hind leg , and on July 18 No. 102 also became paralysed in the right hind leg .
Both of these rats had a good number of trypanosomata in their blood of the ordinary long , very motile kind .
On July 19 No. 101 became completely paraplegic , and died on the 22nd .
No. 102 died on July 23 , without the other leg becoming paralysed .
The following table gives a comparative outline of these five experiments :\#151 ; Bat .
Duration of disease .
Appearance of paralytic symptoms .
Trypanosomata in blood during life .
35 41 days 14th day Very scanty .
42 64 days , rat killed ... 63rd day Not found ; few found post mortem in centrifugalised blood .
68 102 days 78th day Ditto .
101 67 days 52nd day Gl-ood number .
102 58 days 53rd day Ditto .
It will be noted that , in Bats Nos. 101 and 102 , trypanosomata were present in good numbers in the blood , but in those cases ( Nos. 42 and 68 ) in which the paralysis was most marked , and which , to all appearances , were exactly like rats paralysed after inoculation with the Sleeping Sickness strain of trypanosomata , they were absent , or at any rate so few in number that they could only be found in centrifugalised blood after death .
From all of these rats inoculations were made , with the constant result that the disease in the inoculated animals reverted to the generalised form mentioned above as characteristic of this strain of Gambia Fever .
This strain of trypanosomata was also inoculated into a monkey , which lived 33 days after inoculation , this being three days longer than the average time of the 14 monkeys I have inoculated with the Sleeping Sickness strain .
Trypanosomata appeared in the blood 10 days after inoculation , and were of the type of the Sleeping Sickness strain .
Bats inoculated from this monkey did not become paralysed ; trypanosomata of the Gambia Fever 1906 .
] of Gambia Fever and of Sleeping Sickness .
type were plentiful in their blood , and the disease ran the course of that produced by this strain .
2 .
Sleeping Sickness .
In all , 82 rats have been inoculated with this strain of trypanosomata , in 59 direct series of inoculations , and , of these , 22 have been paralysed .
In these cases trypanosomata could be found only at intervals and rarely , and sometimes not at all , in ordinary blood films , and in some cases none could be found in the centrifugalised blood post mortem ; but in leases where prolonged search was made a few were always found .
The paralysis occurred most generally in those rats which were inoculated direct from monkeys , and it occurred less and less frequently as the passages got more remote , firstly from the monkeys and secondly from the original monkey .
I have succeeded in producing paralysis once as far as the fourth passage from the monkey ; generally after the second , in five instances after the first , passage the trypanosomata have become generalised in the blood , and the symptoms and course of the disease have been those of the Gambia Fever strain .
The following table gives an outline of the instance mentioned above , in which paralysis occurred in four successive passages :\#151 ; Eats .
Inoculated from Duration of disease .
Appearance of paralysis after inoculation .
Trypanosomata in blood .
Spleen .
mths .
days .
mths .
days .
7on Monkey which was r6 7 5 15 None seen Not enlarged .
l inoculated from the j * 1 monkey brought i 7b J home by Col. Bruce L 3 14 2 2 None seen Not enlarged .
8 Eat 7a 6 0 5 2 None seen Not enlarged .
10a\ Eat 8 J 3 23 3 1 Few Enlarged .
106 J l 4 6 3 0 Few Enlarged .
13a \ Eat 10 cl / 3 3 Not paralysed Few in every field Large .
136 J l 2 0 i 20 Few Large .
16 Rat 136 2 15 Not paralysed Plentiful Very large .
The rats Nos. la and lb at the head of the above series were inoculated from a monkey which had been inoculated from the monkey Colonel Bruce , F.R.S. , brought home from Uganda , this monkey having been inoculated on the spot with cerebro-spinal fluid from a case of advanced Sleeping Sickness .
In rats inoculated from the 10th monkey done in direct succession from Colonel Bruce 's monkey , the paralysis occurred only in those inoculated directly from the monkey , the next passage producing trypanosomata and symptoms of the Gambia Fever type , as set .forth in the following table:\#151 ; 98 Mr. Plimmer .
Effects on Rats of the Trypanosomata [ Nov. 21 , Rat .
Inoculated from Duration of disease .
Appearance of paralysis after inoculation .
Trypanosomata in blood .
66a 1 Tenth monkey in f Killed at 2 mths .
22 days None seen J s direct succession J 3 mths .
25 days 666 [ from Col. Bruce 's ] 4 mths .
2 days 3 mths .
11 days None seen 6 6cJ monkey L 4 mths .
6 days 3 mths .
22 days None seen 68 Rat 66a 2 mths .
26 days None Few from 15th day after inoculation , increasing till death 69 Rat 66S 2 mths .
1 day None Plentiful 70 Rat 66c Killed at None Fair number 1 mth .
20 days 71 Rat 69 2 mths .
18 days None Plentiful Spleen .
Not enlarged .
Not enlarged .
Not enlarged .
Large .
Very large .
Large .
Very large .
3 .
Paralysis after Inoculation with Trypanosomata .
With regard to the question of paralysis occurring in the rat after inoculation with the above-mentioned particular strains of trypanosomata , it does not appear to have come within the experience of all those who have worked with these particular organisms .
For instance , neither Dr. Thomas , of the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine , nor Dr. Laveran , of Paris , appear to have encountered it in their work with these trypanosomata .
But Lieutenants Tulloch and Gray , in Uganda , have made a number of experiments to test the statement made in my Preliminary Note , and have recorded the same results in a paper published in No. VIII of the Sleeping Sickness Reports of the Royal Society .
In four rats inoculated with the blood of a monkey which had been previously inoculated with cerebro-spinal fluid from Sleeping Sickness patients , paralysis of the hind limbs occurred 10 or more days before death ; and in three out of the four rats no trypanosomata could be found in the peripheral blood at the time of death .
They also found that rats did not show any signs of infection after inoculation with the blood of Sleeping Sickness patients , which has also been my experience .
I inoculated two rats with blood from a case of Sleeping Sickness , in University College Hospital , a year before death , and two more shortly before death , on both of which occasions trypanosomata were present in the patients ' blood ; the results in both series were negative .
The site of the inoculation apparently determines the locality of the paralysis .
In all my experiments , with the exception of four , inoculation was made at the inner side of the hind leg , and the paralysis occurred in the lower limbs .
Only in one rat , which lived nearly 11 months , did any weakness of the forelegs show itself ; and this was due to extensive degeneration 1906 .
] of Gambia Fever and of Sleeping Sickness .
/ \#166 ; ascending the spinal cord from the lumbar region .
The lesions in the spinal cord were also confined more or less to the lumbar region , depending for their extent upon the duration of the disease .
In two cases I inoculated the animals on the inner side of the foreleg , and both these animals became paralysed in the front legs , and the degenerative lesions were most marked in the corresponding parts of the spinal cord .
I inoculated two rats in the peritoneum , but in neither did any paralysis occur .
4 .
The morphological characters of these two strains of Trypanosomata .
It is impossible at present to insist that any differentiation based solely upon microscopical observations should be sufficient in the case of organisms so much alike as the trypanosomata .
Our methods and observations are neither uniform nor good enough to enable us to make , at the present time by the microscopical method alone , a sufficient differentiation .
Until all observers use the finer zoological methods of fixation , etc. , * instead of the barbarous method of drying blood films at present almost exclusively in use , we cannot look for much certainty in the microscopical differentiation of very similar organisms .
This must be supplemented by observing the differences in their pathogenic action .
We must not forget , either , the variability of organisms in the same species of animals in the same country , and their still greater variability in different animals in the same , and in other countries ; and we must remember the great differences in the physical conditions of an organism which are due to environment .
So I would not insist , with our present knowledge , too strongly upon the differences in form in the trypanosomata mentioned above , under the different conditions which have been described .
But if preparations are made under the same conditions , and with the same care , it can be seen that the trypanosomata from the cases in which paralysis has occurred ( in which very few are found in the blood , the greater number being in the central nervous system ) are short and thick , with the flagellum extending very little beyond the body of the organism ; they contain a varying number of vacuoles , and sometimes many granules ; they move slowly , even when the smear of cord or brain is diluted with normal citrate solution ( fig. 3 ) .
On the other hand , those found in the generalised cases ( the Gambia Fever type ) are long , with a long flagellum , and are not vacuolated , and move quickly ( fig. 4 ) .
I have not found the other form in any of these cases , even when the animal has been long dying .
This short , badly staining , vacuolated form is probably due to some condition of environment about * See Note on methods .
VOL. LXXIX.\#151 ; B. I 100 Mr. Plimmer .
Effects on Rats of the Trypanosomata [ Nov. 21 , which we know nothing , which produces not only changes in the morphology of the organism , but also in its pathogenic effects , for , from the above experiments , it can be seen that the inoculation of these short forms may , in the first or subsequent passage , give rise to the long form in the inoculated animal , with quite different symptoms ( cf. figs. 3 and 4 : fig. 3 photographed from a smear of spinal cord of Eat 66 b , and fig. 4 from a blood film of Eat 69 , which was inoculated from Eat 66 b ) .
5 .
Pathological Anatomy .
The examination of these two series of rats has shown that the pathological effects are fairly uniform in each of the two types of cases .
In those animals in which paralysis occurred , the principal lesions were found in the spinal cord .
There was invariably congestion of the vessels , and in eight cases well marked haemorrhages around and in the substance of the cord .
There was the characteristic exudation around the blood-vessels of mononuclear cells , and of plasma cells , such as Dr. Mott has described in the brain in cases of Sleeping Sickness ; and in all the cases a varying amount of glia proliferation { vide figs. 1 and 2 ) .
The nerve-cells in the affected areas of the cord were degenerated in varying degrees up to the disappearance of the processes , and even of the nucleus with vacuolation of the protoplasm .
The brain showed much less change , and only in the chronic cases was any exudation found around the vessels .
Small haemorrhages in the meninges were seen in five cases .
Trypanosomata , mostly in stages of degeneration , were found scattered through the substance of the cord and brain in varying numbers ; none were found in the vessels , which were generally distended with blood .
The other organs showed very little change ; they were anaemic and firm ; the spleen was not enlarged in the chronic cases with marked paralysis , and was only slightly enlarged in the transitional cases .
There was no enlargement of the superficial or deep lymphatic glands , and the eyes and genitals were normal .
In the cases in which the trypanosomata were plenteous in the blood , and which had no paralytic symptoms ( the Gambia Fever type ) , the brains and cords were very congested , and the blood in the distended vessels contained large numbers of trypanosomata .
None were seen in the substance of the brain or cord .
In six cases small haemorrhages were found on the meninges .
There was no degeneration of the brains or cords .
The superficial lymphatic glands were often enlarged .
The abdominal glands were always enlarged , and some of both superficial and deep glands were reddish to brown in colour .
The enlarged glands showed changes of a 1906 .
] of Gambia Fever and of Sleeping Sickness .
hyperplastic nature , and the reddish ones showed sinus formation , extreme congestion , and often haemorrhages .
The lungs were always very congested , with sometimes subserous haemorrhages in the lower lobes .
Small haemorrhages were found in 61 cases in the pleurae .
The livers were always extremely congested , and were very soft in texture , and showed extensive parenchymatous degeneration , and often fatty infiltration and degeneration .
The vessels were very dilated and distended , and often showed proliferation of their endothelium .
The stomach in 13 cases was ulcerated ; generally one small ulcer filled with clot was found , but sometimes as many as three or four .
They were always found on the greater curvature .
In two cases death occurred from perforation .
There was generally a diffused congestion of the lining membrane of the intestines , and on the peritoneal surface ecchymoses dotted about , either singly or in groups , were often found .
The kidneys were congested , and had always macro- or micro-scopical haemorrhages .
The spleen in every case was enormously enlarged , with great congestion of the pulp , and considerable hyperplasia of the follicles .
There was generally proliferation of the endothelium of the distended vessels , and a great deal of phagocytosis of red blood corpuscles and trypanosomata .
The bone marrow ( femur ) was profoundly altered , having the appearance of red marrow .
It was very cellular , with scarcely any fat , and there was always considerable phagocytosis , and many nucleated red corpuscles .
6 .
Conclusions .
From the above summary of 211 experiments , extending over a period of nearly three years , it will be obvious that the tentative deductions which 1 made in my Preliminary Note from the few experiments therein recorded , that Gambia Fever and Sleeping Sickness are two distinct diseases , cannot be maintained .
This extended series of experiments and observations go to show that each of these two strains of trypanosomata has produced two different effects in the same class of animals , under conditions of which we at present know nothing ; and that these effects are alike for the two organisms ; and that the trypanosomata found in these two types of disease are one and the same organism , modified by passage from man through monkeys to rats , and perhaps in the strains I have used , by transplantation into animals of , and in , another country .
102 Effects on Rats of the Trypanosomata of Gambia , etc. NOTE ON METHODS .
With regard to the mention made in Section 4 of methods , the following , which has been used by the writer for some years , gives uniformly good and , as he believes , accurate results .
The specimen is never allowed to dry , and there is no shrinkage of the cells , and the finest cytological details can be observed .
1 .
Expose a cover-glass to the vapour of Osmic acid , 1 per cent ... .
1 c.c. Glacial acetic acid ... ... 3\#151 ; 5 drops for 2 minutes .
( This can be most conveniently effected by using a block-dish covered by a thin glass having a hole in it rather smaller than the cover-glass used .
) 2 .
Place a drop of fresh blood in one corner of the cover-glass , and expose again to the vapour for 30 seconds .
3 .
Spread the film carefully , and expose again for 15 to 30 seconds to the vapour until the surface appears no longer moist .
( The film will not be really dry , and can be easily smeared off the glass with the finger : a really dry film will be much lighter in colour , and cannot be rubbed off with the finger .
) 4 .
Place the cover-glass in absolute alcohol for 10 minutes .
5 .
Place the cover-glass in a faintly rose-coloured solution of permanganate of potash for 1 minute .
( Two or three drops of a 1-per-cent , solution to 50 c.c. of water .
) 6 .
Wash in water for 5 minutes .
7 .
Stain in a modified Eomanowsky 's stain , made by mixing just before use\#151 ; Azure I , 1 per cent. ... ... ... ... . .
1 c.c. Eosin , B.A. , 1\#151 ; 1000 ... ... ... ... . .
2 " Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
8 " for 15\#151 ; 30 minutes .
8 .
Wash. 9 .
Differentiate in orange-tannin , 30 seconds .
10 .
Wash well and drain . .
11 .
Absolute alcohol for a few seconds .
12 .
Alcohol\#151 ; xylol ( in proportion of 2 : 3 ) , two or three changes .
13 .
Xylol , and mount .
Instead of 7\#151 ; 13 , any other method of staining can be used , according to what structures it is desired particularly to show .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Section of half of spinal cord of rat which had been paralysed for 2 months before death .
X 40 .
Shows meningitis , the exudation around the vessels , and a large area of degeneration .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Longitudinal section of vessel in spinal cord of rat which had been paralysed for 6 weeks before death .
x220 .
Shows the cellular exudation around the vessel , and on the right an area of degeneration .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Trypanosomata from a mash of spinal cord of rat , from which cord fig. 1 was photographed , x 1000 .
Stumpy forms , with very short flagella , staining badly , with very little differentiation .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Trypanosomata in blood of rat which was inoculated with the mash of spinal cord from which figs. 1 and 3 were photographed .
Long , well-differentiated , easily staining forms .
This rat was not paralysed .
Plimmer .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. 79 , Plate 1 .
Fig. 3 .
x 1000 .
Fig. 4 .
X1000 .

