]\gt ; Convergence ff Infinite Series of nalytic Functions .
315 The spores , so far as observed , are all of one kind ; they are ellip ' soidal in form , with longitudinal- crests or ridges ; their dimensions are in length by in width .
The most characteristic point in the structure of the new cone\mdash ; the fertility of both dorsal and ventral lobes of the sporophyll\mdash ; is regarded as more probably due to special modification than to the retention of a primitive condition .
On the Convergence of Infinite Series of Analytic Functions By H. A. WEBB , B.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
nunicated by Professor A. B. FOBSYTH , Sc. D. , .D .
, F.R.S. Beceived Noyember 10 , \mdash ; h'ead November 24 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) Consider the differential equation where , . .
, are one-valued analytic fimctions of , independent of is a constant , and the series defining is convergent for all valu of , such that except at the singularities of the functions Exclude points in the -plane indefinitely near these singularities .
The series . . .
, where are functions of independent of , can be formally and uniquely constructed to represent any given particular integlal of the differential equation .
For all values of not excluded the series . .
, are convergent , and when is very large , is an approximats value of the integraL VOL. LXXIV , 2 316 Mr. H. A. Webb .
On the vergence of [ Nov. By means of this theorem approximate expressions for large valuer of one or more of the arguments can be found for many functions that occur in analysis and satisfy linear differential equations of the second ) order .
For instance , approximate solution of Lame 's equation for large values of is where and are ) itrary constants .
We can often determine the condition of convergence of an infinite series of functions by replacing the term by its approximate value for large values of .
For instance , the series of Lame\ldquo ; s functions* where the 's are arbitrary constants , subiect to the condition that the series has unit of convergence , converges if dn .
dn .
dn , cn where The limitation of the method is noteworthy ; we cannot find the condition of convergence of the expansion of a given function in an infinite series of given functiolts without knowing\mdash ; ( i ) That the expansion formally exists ; and ( ii ) The approximate , if not the accurate , value of the term the expansion for large values of In the case of an expansion in hypergeometric functions , the limitation may be removed with the help of two theorems:\mdash ; ( i ) If be a solution of the linear differential equation of the order , . .
the coefficient of being a polynomial order ; then notation is that of Byerly ( ' Fourier 's Series and Spherical Harmonics , ' p. 265 ( 1895 ) ) , .
1904 .
] Infinite Series of ndions .
317 taken along a suitable path , satisfies the equation , and there are in general such integrals linearly independent .
( ii ) If and be integrals of the equations and where are any holomorphic functions of , and are two unequal constants , the integral vanishes if is a suitably chosen path .
We deduce the following result:\mdash ; Let be any function of which is regular at all points in the interior of an ellipse , , whose foci are at the points and The ellipse passes through one ( or more ) of the singularities of q ) .
The curve is thus completely defined when is given .
Further , let be any constant quantities whatever , real or oomplex , save that neither nor is a negative integer .
Then can be expanded in the infinite series of hypergeometric fnnctions .
where . .
The is convergent if is inside , and divergent if ' is ; if is on the series in general oscillatory and the expansion fails .

