One of that small number I had the Honour to make before the Society , who were pleased to order a Repetition of the same next meeting , which accordingly was done , with some little Additions ; and in obedience to their Commands to give an Account of it , which , so far as occurred to Memory , according to my slender Capacity for such a rask , accept as follows .
I took a Glass Globe about 9 inches diameter , and having exhausted the Air from within it , it was taken from the Pump ; but first a Cock was turned , which prevented the Air from re-entering it .
Thus secured , and fixed for to give it Motion by the Great Wheel , described in Phil. Trans. Numb. 304 .
which when turned gave a swift motion to the Globe , on whose surface was applied my open and naked Hands , which in a very little time produced a considerable Light .
And still as I moved my Hands from one place to another , that the Humid Effluvia ( which very readily condenses on Glass ) might be discharged from every part of it ; so did the Light improve , till Words in Capital Letters were legible by it , as was observed the last time by a Gentleman then present .
At another time , when I have made the Experiment , the Light produced has been so great , that a Large Print without much difficulty might be read by it : And at the same time , altho in a pretty large Room , the whole became sensibly Illuminated ; the Wall at the farthest distance ( which was at least 10 foot ) was visible .
The Light appeared of a curious Purple colour , and was produced by a very slight and tender touch of the ~ , the Globe Glass at the same time being ~ sensibly warm .
Nor do I find a more ~ Attrition to advance the Light any thing .
Nor is the high st degree of Rarifaction of the Air in the Globe , absolutely ~ in the production of this Light ; for it seemed to continue very little ~ in its colour or vigour , till ( I believe ) more than a fourth part of its Air was let in .
I have often observed the same , as to the Light produced duc 'd in the Mercurial Experiments , ( but not as to Colour ) for in those Experiments it was always pale : And there being such a seeming Congruity of Appearances in all the Circumstances of them , with those made on the Attrition of Glass without it , that one might with some probability conclude , that the Light produced proceeds from a Quality in the Glass , upon such a Friction or Motion given it ; and not from the Mercury , any other ways than as a proper Body , which falling or rubbing on the Glass , produces the Light .
And that which would seem farther to Corroborate such a Conclusion is , That some time ago I took a Mercurial Barometer , and rubbed the upper or Deserted part of the Tube between my Fingers , and a Light ensued , without the motion of the Quicksilver .
Yet for all this the Conclusion is doubtful , and there may be such a Quality as Light in Mercury , as well as in Glass or any other body , since an Experiment lately made on purpose seems to contend for it , and is as follows .
I took a small quantity of Quicksilver , and put it into a Galleypot , wherein Varnish often had been ~ , and by that means it had got a pretty thick Lining of it ; the Weather was at that time moist ( which I purposely mention , because the humidity in the Air , would sometimes render the Experiment unsuccessful even in Glass , or at least mightily impair the appearance of it , ) which had an influence on the Varnish , as something to soften it .
However , the success of the Experiment was , That when the Galleypot with its contained Mercury came to be in Vacuo , upon shaking the Pump a Light did appear , and this without the Concurrence of Glass , or the favour of a more proper Season to ~ it .
Moreover , I am informed by several Persons of credit , that the Medicine called Mer~ Dulcis , when broken in the dark , gives notable Flashes of Light ; but the Mercury in the Medicine being pointed with Salts , each little Globule of it is enveloped with the same , that I cannot be assured the Salts do not contribute to the~ Phenomenon , since I have often observed that Loaf Sugar , when struck or broke in the dark , affords a Light , and I cannot tell but Salts as closely united in their parts as the prementioned Sugar , may give a Light upon a violent separation of them , till I have made some Trials , in relation ( as near as I can ) to a true discovery of it : ( Which I design with the first opportunity .
) The first will be to try whether the Medicine when broken in Vacuo will afford any Light , which I think I may expect if it proceeds from the Mercury , since if there be any such Quality in that body , it seems to be the most proper Medium to discover it in .
Secondly , what the Salts will do without Quicksilver , both in the open Air and in Va~ ; for there are some Bodies that appear light in the dark in the open Air , which altogether lose that shining Quality in Vacuo .
As for instance , I took a piece of Wood , ( which I suppose had lain under ground a considerable time , ) it was very ~ , but not rotten , and appeared very vividly of the Colour of Fire in the dark : Having included it under a Receiver on my Pump , I found as the Air was taken from it , so did the Fire-like Appearance of it decay , till at last in Vacuo it became perfectly void of Light ; and as the Air was let in~ again , so by d grees it recovered its pristine Appearance .
This I repeated several times with the like success .
Now begging pardon for this long digression , I proceed to the latter part of the Experiment .
After the Attrition of the exhausted Globe was continued for some time , the prementioned Cook was returned , which gave liberty for the Air to insinuate into the Globe through the ~ of the Screws ; the motion of the great Wheel and the application of the Hands continuing all the while : And as the Air filled the Globe , so the mode of Light continued to alter , till the ~ quantity of Air had re entered as was taken from it ; then became as great a difference of Light from what was produced when evacuated of Air , as when the Experiment was made with QuicksilverVacuo and in the open Air .
Certain Specks of ~ were then seen upon the Fingers that touched the Globe , but without any great Lustre , and it was very remarkable that while my hand continued upon the Glass , and the Glass in motion , if any person approached his Fingers towards any part of the Glass in the same Horizontal Plain with my Hand , within an inch or thereabouts , a Light would appear to stick to the Fingers , notwithstanding they did not touch the Glass , as was confirmed by several then present .
And my Neckcloth at the same time , at an inch or 21 distant from it , appeared of the colour of Fire , without any communication of Light from the Globe .
Thus much for the latter part of the first Trial .
The former part of both being alike , save only that upon application of white Sheeps Leather in the latter , a very good Light-was produced , during it was held to the Globe with the Wool side next it ; but when the same piece of Leather was turned with its other side to the Globe , no Light did ensue , although continued for some time ; but so soon as it was changed again , the Light would appear as at first , and so upon several Repetitions the same .
As to the latter part of this Trial , the Air was not let in all at once as before , but at several times , whereby the Modes of Light produced in the different Mediums , were the better observable , although no very great Alteration happened either to its Colour or Vigour , till so considerable a quantity , as more than a quarter part of the Globes natural content of Air was let in ; but sometimes before half the Air was suffered to re enter ( as near as I could guess ) it was not without some pleasure to behold , how the Light began to break in Branches from that side the Globe ~ by the hands , filling the whole body of it with very odd Figures , and these Branches of Light , at the entrance of more Air , were become in more slender Stems , striking ~ against the opposite side of the Glass , and thence reverberating again in a very pleasing manner ; but after more and more Air was let in , so the Light and Figures diminished , till the Appearance became the same as related in Trial the first .
II .
An Account of an Experiment made before the Royal Society at Gresham College , together with a Repetition of the same , touching the Production of a Considerable Light upon a slight Attrition of the Hands on a Glass Globe Exhausted of its Air : With other Remarkable Occurrences .
By Mr Fra .
Hauksbee , F. R. S. HAving had the Favour of making several Experiments , in Relation to the Production of Light from Sundry Bodies , and in Different Manners , before this Honourable Society , which they were pleased to Countenance , by their Approbation and Publication of them , as being in some respect or other , Different from any heretofore made on the same subject : Which , with the Hopes I had still of Advancing some farther Discories ; And that I thought my Endeavours of this kind would not be altogether unacceptable to the Society , Together with the Nobleness of the Subject concurring , prompted me with all willingness to prosecute the same .
The Experiments already made on this head , As the Attrition of Amber on Woollen , Glass on Glass , and with several other Bodies in vacuo , which tho afforded but a weak Light , yet the Manner of making them seemed to open a way to farther Improvements , which , during the late Interval of Meeting , I pursued with my utmost diligence .
The Result of the many Experiments made on this occasion are comprised in a very few , which shall be repeated before this Honourable Society , as Opportunity shall give leave .

