A paper was also read , entitled " On the Typical Forms of the large Secreting Organs of the Human Body .
" By Thomas H. Silvester , M.D. Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , Sec. U.S. Received Nov. 11 , 1853 .
The author in this paper offers some observations on the large secreting organs of the human body , namely , The lungs , The liver , The kidney , The stomach , The intestines , and The developments connected with reproduction .
He observes that there are great obstacles to an attempt to reduce them to a uniform type , but that further observation reveals a typical uniformity , in adaptation to special purposes , unequalled in the rest of the human oeconomy .
The greatest hindrance to the discovery of this law of formation has been the habit of regarding a single element of the glandular organ as the whole and not a mere part of the glandular apparatus ; for instance , the ovary has been described as the ovuliferous gland , although in reality the latter consists of the ovary , the Fallopian tubes , the uterus , and the vagina : also the lung has been said to be a gland , meaning by this expression the secreting portion ; whereas the lung-gland is composed of the vesicular structure , the excretory ducts , the bronchi , larynx , thyroid body , and even the nasal passages .
The aim of the author has been to discover the constant elements of the glandular system and to compare them together in the several organs .
A secreting gland is described as a more or less developed fold of mucous membrane , or even a plain surface-in its simplest form a follicle ; but in the organs to be described it is a highly complicated apparatus , composed of many parts , each possessing a peculiar function .
It is an unvarying characteristic of these structures that the elements of which they are composed always bear the same relation to each other in position .
An accompanying diagram exhibited the type of a perfect gland , constituted of five elements and an appendage .
1 .
The secreting element ... ... ... ... Red .
2 .
The excretory element ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Blue .
3 .
The receptacle element ... ... ... ... ... ... Yellow , 4 .
The cervix with its glandular appendage ... .
Purple .
5 .
The efferent duct ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Green .
Sketches of the several glands of the human body accompanied the Japer , coloured in the same manner , so that the corresponding parts might be seen at a glance .
The elements are seldom wanting , though sometimes scarcely discernible in their rudimentary condition , and retained apparently only in conformity to typical law .
There is great difference in degree of development of the elements .
The secreting part of the liver is of large size compared to the ducts , whilst that of the generative organ in the female , namely , the ovarium , is comparatively minute .
The appendage of the cervix is very large in the biliferous apparatus , but scarcely discoverable in the stomach and sigmoid flexure .
The excretory duct in the digestive organ , represented by a contraction across the middle of the stomach , is of enormous length in the seminiferous gland , as the vas deferens .
The popular terms being inexact or without meaning , it was proposed to substitute for the ordinary names of the secreting organs designations more aptly descriptive of their functions and more in accordance with the principles of scientific nomenclature , as follows : The uriniferous gland .
The seminiferous gland .
The biliferous gland .
The pneumatiferous gland .
The intestinal gland .
The ovuliferous gland .
The lactiferous gland ; and The digestive gland .
The kidney , or uriniferous gland , presents an almost typical regularity of development .
The secreting element or cortical portion is composed of small convoluted tubes covered with a net-work of blood-vessels .
The excretory duct or medullary structure arises from the cortical part by numerous straight tubuli , which terminate in a duct for the conveyance of the urine into The receptacle or bladder .
This organ has a cervix lined with mucous membrane in longitydinal folds , studded with minute follicles and a rudimentary glandular appendage in the male .
The efferent duct is constituted of the membranous portion of the urethra .
The seminiferous gland consists of the testicle , a collection of convoluted tubercles , of an excretory duct called the vas deferens , of a receptacle the analogue of the uterus , the vesicule seminales being the body , the prostate the glandular appendage surrounding the cervix .
The efferent duct is of considerable length ; the rereptacle is lined with an alveolar fissure like the gall-bladder and some muscular fibres .
The ovuliferous organ consists of the ovarium or secretory element , the fallopian tubes or excretory duct , the uterus or receptacle , the cervix and its glandular appendage in the shape of mucous follices , and the vagina or efferent duct .
The secretory structure is not tubular , but vesicular ; the excretory duct is connected with the ovarium by its fimbriated extremity at certain periods only , in conformity with its peculiar function .
The lactiferous gland is remarkable for the singular distribution of its elements ; the secreting portion or breast , and the excretory duct or nipple , being attached to one individual , and the receptacle or mouth , cervix , glandular appendage or tonsils , and efferent duct or oesophagus belonging to another , of which the mother and child afford an illustration .
The stomach or digestive gland does not appear at first sight to be formed upon the same type as the other glands ; it is however divisible into three distinct cavities the secreting or cardiac , the receptacular or pyloric , and the efferent or duodenum .
It is a tube of enormous calibre , divided into three compartments of unequal area .
The excretory tube is recognized in the central contraction of the muscles during digestion ; the cervix , lined with plicated mucous membrane , has been poetically described as the pylorus .
Comparative anatomy as well as microscopical bear testimony to the correctness of this view with regard to structure and development .
The biliferous gland is constituted as follows : The secreting element , popularly called the liver .
The hepatic duct is the excretory tube .
The gall-bladder is the receptacle terminating in the duodenum in conjunction with the pancreatic duct , the pancreas being the glandular appendage surrounding the slender cervix of the receptacle , and the duodenum performing the function of an efferent canal to the digestive and biliferous glands .
The glandular appendages are subject to great variety of development .
The thyroid , the pancreas , and the prostate are large structures , whilst in the pylorus , the sigmoid flexure of the colon and the cervix uteri , the same element is little more than a fold of mucous membrane with follicles interspersed .
This element , like the glandular apparatus , is greatly predisposed to cancerous degeneration .
The writer of the paper now proceeds to describe the most remarkable and important gland of the human oeconomy , namely , the sanguiferous .
The jejunum and ileum constitute the secreting element of this organ .
T'he ileo-caecal valve or verminiferous appendage is the excretory duct in a rudimentary state .
The colon , though enormously developed in a longitudinal direction , must be regarded as the receptacle ; the sigmoid flexure folded upon itself like the letter S ( as in the cervix of the gall-bladder ) is the cervix of the colon receptacle ; the rectum or the efferent duct conxpletes the system .
The function of this system is not fully known ; the tract is lined with mucous membrane and glandulm for the secretion of air and other products of the blood .
It can scarcely be denied that the intestinal tube , in its structure and form and arrangement of the elements , bears the closest analogy to the glandular apparatus as seen in the other large viscera of the human body .
The jejunum , as its name implies , is generally empty ; it is convoluted , and its parietes are covered with a net-work of capillaries ; it resembles therefore in all these:particulars the tubes which form the secreting tissue of the testicle and kidney , and differs from them but in size .
The jejunum and ileum , regarded as a continuous tube , constitute a magnificent secreting structure , and its function is probably something more than the supply of the air and mucus generally contained in its canal .
It has been suggested , that the blood , the lymph and the faeces owe their existence to the active capillaries of the mesenteric arteries , but some certain proofs are still wanting in confirmation of this opinion .
In the lung-gland , or pneumatiferous organ , the vesicular structure is the secreting element ; it secretes carbonic acid : the ramifications of the bronchia ending in the two bronchi represent the excretory duct ; the trachea is the receptacle ; and the glandular appendage covering the cervix ( or cricoid cartilage ) and marking its position , passes by the name of the thyroid .
The efferent duct commences at the cricoid and ends at the cartilaginous orifice of the nostrils .
The lacrymiferous organ is formed upon the same plan as the preceding ; but in consequence of some peculiarities of development , that , together with the simpler secreting structures , will be reserved for a future opportunity .

