]\gt ; On Natural diation f By GEORGE GREEN , D.Sc .
, Lecturer on { Philosophy in the } of Glasgow .
( Communicated by Prof. A. Gray , F.R.S. Received Deceml er 1 , 1913 , \mdash ; Read January 29 , 1914 .
) In a paper " " On the Character of the Complete adiation at a emperaGure , Lord Rayleigh discusses the possibility of representing complete radiation at any temperature an ation of pulses all of one definite type .
The form of pulse assumed in the investigation is that of the error function , so that each pulse be arded as due to elementary impulses aimed at the same point in space umder the la of error , or they may be arded as distributed in time under the or a similar law .
The pulses themselves assumed to be sinlilar , ) not necessarily equal , and their occurrence is random in the sense that velocity of molecules in a gas is random , that is , their numbers and intensities in such a way as to produce effects which are statistically steady .
Tho investigation may be arded an attempt to derive the law of complete radiation by means of a snmmation of impulses such as are osed to occur at collisions in ases on kinetic theory .
On this collisions would naturally be regarded as the source of radiation , but it is unnecessary at this point to restrict our ideas ardil ) the type of fundamental by special assumptions the mechanism of radiation .
Some time later Mr. Charles obtained expressions for the radiation from an incandescent ( , taking the form of pulse to be a limited train of regular vibrations .
The gas is assumed to ) sist of molecules , with vibrators or electrons , all having the sa1ne period of vibration , and the radiation is taken as series of ular ttins of tions emitted by the vibrators in the intervals Che ollisions of molecules .
The type of pulse discussed is chosen most for the inflnence of the various ths of free path of and of motion of molecules in the line of , in to produce broadening of the spectrum of the gas .
cnlitted molecules of speed , in the of frequency to , is first obtained , and an integration over the various velocities then ooives the in 'Phil .
Mag , ' 1889 , vol. 27 .
' On the Application of Fouriet.'S Double to Optical \ldquo ; ' Phil. , vol. 19 p. 320 ( 1900 ) .
Dr. G. Green .
the region of the spectrum considered .
Thus the total radiation of the is not in question in this paper , or in the note regarding it by Lord in ' Proc. .
Soc vol. 76 , 1905 , but it is clear that , if we extend the restricted idea of pulse used in this investigation to include disturbances originating at collisions of molecules , as well as regular vibrations emitted between collisions , and carry out the same summation of the probable effects due to the various groups of molecules , we ought to arrive at the law of complete radiation for the gas .
The difficulty of this line of approach to the law of complete radiation is , of course , that the form of the constituent pulses is entirely unknown .
It seems to be definitely established , however , from the investigations of Planck , that the total energy radiated from a black body at any temperature is emitted in the form of discrete quanta of all equal and similar .
The existence of discrete quanta of energy in the process of emission need not be taken to indicate a molecular structure for energy , but may arise from the constitution of the molecule , which may be such bhat emission always occurs accompanied by a definite change of constitution or rearrangement of the system , involving the radiation of a definite quantity of energy .
In this view we virtually identify the quantum of with the energy of a pulse emitted by a molecule of the gas , and the problem becomes to mine the form of this pulse , so that a proper summation of similar pulses leads to Planck 's law of radiation .
The form of this pulse might convey some indication of the mechanism of radiation in any black body .
At first sight it seems as if the form of pulse , with the same distribution of per at a Iiven temperature as stated in Planck 's law of radiation , is all that is required .
But this is not so , for the form and content of the pulse would in this case vary with the temperature while the quantum is understood to be a constant .
If we identify the quantum of energy with the energy of similar elementary pulses , a sequence of which constitutes total radiation , we must assume that their number and distribution in changes with the temperature .
The aim of the present investigation is to derive a form of pulse in agreement with Planck 's law of radiation at any temperature and to discover if any information can be obtained regarding the constitution of natural radiation by decomposing tlus pulse .
The form of pulse which gives the same energy per wave-length as required by Wien 's law has recently been communicated to the Royal Society by Dr. B. A. Houstoun , but as the required " " On the Influence of Collisions amd of the Motion of Molecules in the Line of Sight upon the Constitution of a Spectrum Line " " Mathematical Representation of a Light Pulse this volume , p. 399 .
On Nafural Radiation from form for agreement with Planck 's law has been now derived by direct invesyation I shall indicate the process by which it has been obtained .
Consider the distribution of radiant per wave-length due to a single impulse delivered at the origin at time .
It is proved below that the energy per wave-length is the same in the unresolved form of the pulse as when resolved by Fourier 's theorem , or by any dispersive medium .
For con- venience , therefore , we may take the case of an ulse in a dispersive medium , in which is the velocity of an infinite train of waves of wave , and period , where , and .
This makes available the solution for the effect of an impulse given by Lord in his paper of 1887 , * ' ' On the Waves produced by a Impulse in Water Any Depth , or in a Dispersive Medium From that paper we find , for the displacement , at point , at time , the expression \ldquo ; .
( 1 ) In this corresponds to the of the roup of Fourier trains which predominate at point , at time ; and the sign is to be chosen in the denominator to make the expression positive .
The value of obtained is great , and correspondinobly great .
The condition that predominates at point at time is thal , ( 2 ) where ; the -velocity corl.esponding to -length ; and the extent of the medium from the plane where predominates to the plane where wave-length preduminates , at time , is .
Since energy of wave motion per unit length of medium is propoltional to the square of the amplitude , the above expressions show that the energy of the disturbance in the range of from to is proportional to : or , if we express this result in the notation comm employed in optics , we obtain , ( 4 ) where a constant .
This is the result referred to above , namely that the energy associated with any ) of wave-lengths depends only on the ' Boy .
Soc. Proc vol. 42 .
Dr. G. Green .
concerned , being the same at all stages of the process of dispersion as in the unresolved pulse .
It is true for any form of initial pulse provided we substitute an arbitrary function , , for .
Thus the energy per wavecontained in the part of any wave disturbance in a dispersive medium , where the wave-length is , is a constant determined by the form of the initial disturbance alone .
Since the wave-disturbance of wave-length moves with the corresponding group-velocity we see that the group-velocity determines the rate of flow of energy at each point of the medium\mdash ; a theorem first stated by Lord Rayleigh for an extended group of wave Consider now the distribution of energy per } when the initial disturbance is a pulse of any iven form .
In this case let , ( 5 ) represent initial conditions .
is understood to be practically limited to a region close to the on either side .
According to the Fourier synthesis the displacement at point at any later time is .
( 6 ) The most important terms of this expression have been given in a papel by the present writer in ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. Edin When Lord Kelvin 's value of the first is inserted in the above , it is found that , for places very distant from the origin and for all the time in which the displacement is comparable to the first order with its maximum value , the value of is , ( 7 ) where A and are taken from equation ( 1 ) aboYe .
We might choose either as an even or as am odd function , and in any case it is convenient to uish the two types of initial pulse , namely , those satisfying the equation and those for which .
For the even type , by an application of the process applied above to the single impulse , we obtain , for the energy associated with the range of wave-lengths to , the expression ; ( 8 ) ' Theory of Sound , ' vol. 1 , Appendix .
" " On Waves in a Dispersive Medium resulting from a Limited Initial Disturbance On Natural Radiation a Gas .
and for the odd type we find .
( 9 ) The value of which is required in either case for Planck 's law is , ( 10 ) so that the condition to be fulfilled by is contained in the equation AT , ( 11 ) unity being coefficient of the Each term on the is of the .
Exprcss thi , in the a Fourier double integl.al and perform the ratio with respect to .
The result is , ( 13 ) where .
It is at present to find the values of these rals separately , inasmuch a they can be derived by the complex essions and it is thus clear that the evon function required for reement term of Planck 's expression is ' nd the odd function is ( 14 ) with .
The complete sion for a pulse with per }-length as in Planck 's law is , constant multipliers , On Radiation or as we may write it to show more clearly how it depends on , the absolute teml)erature , .
A diagram of the form has been given in .
Houstoun 's paper referred to above .
In applying results obtained above to a gas we must obviously suppose the radiation from the gas to be restricted to the direction of .
Also , as it may appear artificial to represent the gregate radiation by a displacement form extending throughout space , it is important to remark that the constituent pulses which we have assumed equally well have been taken as distributed in time to a similar law so as to give the same effect .
Let us now consider how the above pulse may be decomposed into constituents of some simpler form .
This may be possible in several ways , but if we take the terms similar to and express each as an in the manner indicated below , the results admit of simple interpretation to the kinetic theory of gases .
Thus we can write , as in ( 12 ) and ( 13 ) above , for the even function , , ( 15 ) and if we replace in this expression by we obtain .
( 16 ) The meaning of this is that the composite pulse obtained in above may be regarded as the aggregate effect of simple wave-trains emitted by the various groups of molecules in the gas obtained by arranging the total number according to speed at any temperature .
In the term considered in ( 16 ) the due to molecules whose speed lies between and is evidently proportional to .
The value of is where is taken from Planck 's formula , and we have therefore ( by introducing a suitable constant with in ( 15 ) above ) proportional to the number of molecules whose speeds lie between and at any temperature .
Thus the displacement form which represents the contribution to the total radiation made by the molecules in the group , at any temperature , is given by Photo-elastic in Glass . .
( 17 ) We have thus arrived at a form of pulse hich r ] ) resents complete radiation at all temlJeratures , and the statistical relation between it and the harmonic constituents of the radiation emitted by the various roups of molecules .
Meantime fuller discussion of the above is reserve for a later paper .
On the 'Iemperature riation of the Photo-elastic in Strained By L. N. G. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Applied Mathematics Mechanics in the University of London .
Received December Read nuary 2 1 .
The object of this ation to determine in what manner stress-optical of glass vary with chance of temperature .
The method of measuring the stress-optical coefficients was the one described in 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc vol. 83 , pp. 573 et , but the following modifications were introduced for the special purpose in view .
2 .
The glass slabs were enclosed in a double-walled copper ) amber .
In the space between the two walls a constant circulation of steam could be maintained .
Two windows of plane parallel glass in the front and back of the chamber allowed , previously analysed by a , to traverse the slabs and to be focussed a spectrographic camera .
The plan and front elevation of the chamber are shown in fig. 1 .
tures were provided in the sides of the chamber to allow , wooden arms , by means of which moment without shear could be applied to the slabs , to project outside .
As a certain amount of free play had to be allowed to these arms , the apertures could not be made or packed htly with cotton wool .
In order to prevent draughts and loss of heat , thick felt pads , were fitted round the arms at the exit and entrance to the apertures as shown in fig. 1 .
practically closed the apertures while allowing the arms free motion , and the

