282 ZOOLOGY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
Hydroida.\#151 ; By Professor Allman , M.D. , LL. B. , ( Plate XVIII .
) The species of Hydroida collected at Kerguelen Island and placed in my hands for determination amount in number to seven .
Of these , one cannot be separated from the widely distributed Sertularellapolyzonias ; * the others were before unknown .
Among them the gymnoblastic hydroids are represented by a single species only , a Coryne or Syncoryne , whose nearer determination in the absence of the gonosome is impossible .
The new calyptoblastic forms are represented by five species .
Of these one constitutes the type of a new genus ( Hypanthea ) .
The others belong to the genera Sertularella , Halecium , , and Campamdaria ( provisional ) , all of which are well represented by other species in our own latitudes .
The species which has been referred to ( though in the absence of a fuller knowledge of its gonosome , only provisionally ) cannot be specifically distinguished from a hydroid obtained last autumn by H.M.S. " Valorous " in Baffin 's Bay .
It belongs to a common group of campanularian forms ; but yet the fact of identical forms occurring in such widely separated localities , though under conditions probably very similar , is one of great interest and significance , more especially as the distribution can hardly be explained , as in certain other cases , by the transporting agency of ships ' bottoms .
On the whole the hydroid fauna of Kerguelen Island , so far as it is represented by this collection , exhibits little which can be referred to as impressing on it anything of a special or characteristic facies .
The only unusual type is offered by the form for which I have constituted the new genus All the others , notwithstanding the specific peculiarities by which most of them are distinguished from forms occurring elsewhere , belong to well-known and widely distributed types .
The following are the diagnoses of the new Kerguelen Island Hydroida .
HYDBOIDA CALYPTOBLASTEA .
Sertularella .
Sertularella unilateralis .
( Plate XVIII .
, figs. 10 , 11 .
) Allman , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 114 .
Trophosome.\#151 ; Hydrocaulus attaining a height of about an inch and a half , alternately and pinnately branched , monosiphonic ; Hydrothecse deep , divergent and somewhat tumid below , slightly curving towards the stem above , strongly fourtoothed , all of them deflected towards one side of the stem and branches .
* I do not now regard the Sertularella Jterguelensisof the preliminary notice ( Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. 1876 ) as sufficiently distinct from S. polyzonias to justify its separation from that species .
IIYDROIDA.\#151 ; PROF .
ALLMAN .
Gonosome.\#151 ; Gonangia arising just below the base of a hydrotheca , ovoid , with a four-toothed terminal orifice ; distal portion marked with wide annulations which become obsolete towards the proximal end .
Dredged in Swain 's Bay .
The mode in which the hydrothecse , though springing from opposite sides of the stem and branches , are all deflected towards one side , causes them to appear to be monostichous , and thus gives to the species a peculiar and well-marked character .
Sertularella lagena .
Allman , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 114 .
Trophosome.\#151 ; Hydrocaulus springing from a creeping stolon , attaining a height of about an inch , slightly branched ; internodes much attenuated towards their proximal ends , and there furnished with two or three well marked oblique annulations .
Hydrothecse rather distant , borne by the internode close to its distal end , tumid below , becoming narrow towards the orifice which is distinctly four-toothed .
Gonosome.\#151 ; Not known .
Dredged in Observatory Bay , Kerguelen Island .
This is a small species distinguished chiefly by its flaslc-shaped hydrothecae , and proxi- Sertularella lagena .
mately attenuated internodes with oblique annulations .
Halecium .
Halecium mutilum .
( Plate XVIII .
, figs. 8 , 9 .
) Allman , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. 1876 , xvii .
, p. 114 .
Ti ophosome .
Hydrocaulus attaining a height of about an inch , irregularly branched ; branches with two or three oblique annulations at their origin ; internodes short , each carrying for the support of the hydranth close to its distal end a bracket-shaped process which is not produced into a tube , and which is surrounded by a narrow membranous punctate margin .
Gonosome.\#151 ; Not known .
Dredged in Observatory Bay , Boyal Sound .
This species like II , mcierocephalum , Allman , from the Western part of the Gulf Stream , and H. sessile , Norman , from the Hebrides , is remarkable for the utter absence of the tubular prolongation of the lateral orifice of the internode which gives support to the hydranth in most of the species of Saleeium .
N N 2 ZOOLOGY OF KERGUELEN ISLAND .
CaMPANTJLAHIA .
Campanularia ?
cylindrica .
( Plate XVIII .
, figs. 4 , 5 .
) Allman , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 114 .
Trophosome.\#151 ; Hydroid attaining a height of about a quarter of an inch ; peduncles springing from a creeping filiform stolon , marked with several annulations at their proximal ends , and having at their distal ends each a single globular annu-lation which immediately supports the hydrotheca ; in their intermediate portion they are slightly corrugated .
Hydrothecse deep , cylindrical , with the margin deeply cut into about twelve strong teeth .
Gonosome.\#151 ; Gonangia on very short peduncles which spring from the creeping stolon , cylindrical above with a flat summit , and then tapering below towards the peduncle .
Dredged in Swain 's Bay .
Beyond our knowledge of the situation and the external form of the gonangia , we know nothing of the gonosome , and therefore the reference of this species to the genus Campanularia is merely provisional .
A form which cannot he distinguished specifically from this , has more recently been dredged by H.M.S. " Valorous " from 60 fathoms in Baffin 's Bay .
Hypanthea .
Trophosome.\#151 ; Hydrothecae pedunculate , inoperculate , with walls enormously thickened and so far encroaching upon the cavity as to render impossible the complete retraction of the hydranth .
Gonosome.\#151 ; Gonangia enclosing fixed sporosacs .
The genus Hypanthea is very remarkable from having the place of the ordinary hydrothecae occupied by bodies which maybe said to support rather than contain the hvdranths , which are thus almost as incapable of being withdrawn into a protective receptacle as are the hydranths of the various species of j \#151 ; a most exceptional condition among the calyptoblastic hydroids .
Hypanthea repens .
( Plate XVIII .
, figs. 6 , 7 .
) Allman , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 115 .
Trophosome .
\#151 ; Peduncles attaining a height of about a quarter of an inch , springing at intervals from a creeping stolon , having each a globular annulus just below the hydrotheca , destitute of annulations in the remainder of their extent .
Hydrothecse obconical with very oblique margin , their cavity forming distally a shallow cup , whence is prolonged a narrow cylindrical tube backwards through the axis of the hydrotheca .
HYDROIDA.\#151 ; PROF .
ALLMAN .
Gonosome.\#151 ; Gonangia elongated , narrow , passing gradually into a short peduncle which springs from the creeping stolon ; colonies monoecious ; the male gonangia exceeding in height the peduncles of the hydrothecse , fusiform , opening on the summit by a narrow circular orifice ; the females shorter than the males , scarcely narrowing towards their distal extremity where they open hy a wide orifice .
Dredged in Swain 's Day .
The singular form of the hydrothecse , the large naked hydranths , and the greatly elongated gonangia , give to IIypanthearepens a striking physiognomy .
The great development of the chitinous perisarc is shown not only in the liydrothecse hut also in the peduncles on which these are borne ; for the perisarc of the peduncles like that of the hydrothecse attains a great thickness and narrows their cavity in a manner similar to that hy which the walls of the hydrothecse contract the space contained hy them .
The lips of the orifice of the female gonangia are inverted for a short distance .
In each gonangium of either sex one sporosac only is developed .
This forms a greatly elongated sac which occupies almost the whole of the cavity of the gonangium .
The presence in this hy droid of male and female gonangia in the same colony is another very exceptional feature .
Several of the hydranths in the specimen were sufficiently well preserved to admit of their form and their relations to the other parts being determined .
HYDROIDA GYMNOBLASTEA .
CORYNE .
Coryne ( ?
) conferta .
( PI .
XVIII .
, figs. 1-3 .
) Allman , Ann. \amp ; Mag. of Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , 1876 , xvii .
, p. 115 .
Trophosome.\#151 ; Hydrocaulus attaining a height of about an inch and a half ; much and irregularly branched , forming dense tufts ; stems and branches distinctly and regularly annulated .
Hydranths with about 20 tentacles .
Gonosome.\#151 ; Not known .
Gathered on Mytilus at or near low water mark in Observatory Bay ( the tide falls only about 2 feet ) .
Scarce .
The absence of the gonosome renders the reference of this species to Coryne provisional .
It might with equal reason be regarded as a Syncoryne .
Its densely tufted stems with their strongly annulated perisarc confer upon it a well marked character .
" This is the only Gymnoblastic species in the collection .
iof Venus Expe , cL Kerguelen'S IsEand .
ZooloSy .
Pl , XVni |oic\#187 ; \amp ; .T-V\K\lt ; 3sX .
TwffenW^est sc .
'WWest \lt ; \amp ; Co .imp

