134 Sir Norman Lockyer and Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer .
[ Oct. 18 , " On the Similarity of the Short-period Pressure Variation over Large Areas .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.O.B. , F.R.S. , and William J. S. Lockyer , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.A.S. Received October 18 , \#151 ; Read December 4 , 1902 .
[ Plates 1 and 2 .
] In a paper presented in June last to the Society , * we pointed out the existence of a short-period oscillation of barometric pressure over the Indian area corresponding generally with a variation in , the percentage number of prominences recorded on the sun 's limb .
This oscillation was further shown not to be limited to the Indian area , but to be marked at a far distant station , as Cordoba , in South America .
The present paper , which is a continuation of this investigation , was undertaken to extend the research over a larger area .
The monthly means of the pressure variations for each station have been divided as previously into two periods , namely , those months in which the pressures are above and those in which they are below the normal , the normal being the mean pressure for the whole period under investigation in each locality .
In dealing with large areas , it happens that during the same period of time ( that is generally but not invariably six months ) , the pressure is above the normal in some places , and below the normal in others ; the similarity of the curves representing the variation of the mean for this period , from year to year , indicates therefore that , in one case , a rise in the curve denotes that the pressure is higher , and , in the other , that the pressure is not so low as usual .
The accompanying curve ( Plate 1 ) illustrates the variations of pressure which have been analysed .
Commencing with Indian pressures ( as represented by Bombay ) the area was gradually extended to Ceylon ( Colombo ) , Java ( Batavia ) , Mauritius , and finally to Australia ( Perth , Adelaide and Sydney ) .
In this set of curves about the same months are in question , so that the pressure variations refer in the northern hemisphere to the low pressure ( summer ) months , and in the southern hemisphere to the high pressure ( winter ) months .
The striking similarity between these curves shows that over the whole of this area , which includes both north and south latitudes , the same kind of variations is in action , and that therefore the whole region is intimately connected meteorologically .
It was indicated in our previous paper that the pressure of Cordoba , in South America , was the inverse of that of India for the same period .
Since the Indian pressure variations are seen now to extend over a * " On Some Phenomena which suggest a Short-Period of Solar and Meteorological Changes .
" 'Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 70 , p. 500 .
i | \#151 ; f- " " i | i I i i | i \#166 ; i i r- " !
i i i I | i i i | i\#151 ; i i i | i i i | i i i i r\#151 ; T i \gt ; 0*0 18700 18800 18900 19000 continuous and broken lines represent the epochs of maxima and minima of sunspot activity .
( FLORIDA U.S.A.)30.020 ] PRESSURE .
30-IOO[NOV.-MAR .
J -080-.060HIGH PR .
MTHS .
.040_ PENSACOLA .
*020(FLORIDA US .
A ) 30000PRESSURE .
30-000-[nov.-apr .
J HIGH PR .
MTHS .
.959SAN DIEGO .
( CAL .
U.S.A. ) 29-900\#151 ; rr 18600 1 r1 1 1 1 | 1 i 1 1 | j~1 1 | 1 1 1 i | n i | 1 i i r~j 1 1 18800 1890-0 1900-0 Note.\#151 ; The vertical continuous and broken lines represent the epochs of maxima and minima of sunspot activity .
1902 .
] Short-period Pressure Variation over Large Areas .
135 region on both sides of the equator , it was important to study the extent of the region in the New World in which pressure variations similar to those of Cordoba had been recorded .
As Cordoba 'represents an area south of the equator , a portion of the United 'States of America was taken as typifying [ ah area with north latitude and in about the same longitude , and a commencement was made along the lowest available parallel of latitude .
This was rendered possible by the kindness of Professor F. Bigelow , of the Weather Bureau , who very generously forwarded proofrsheets of a new reduction of the pressures of many stations .
We wish to ta , ke this opportunity of expressing to him our best thanks .
Treating these pressures in the same way as those formerly investigated in the Indian region , several stations which had the best record were chosen .
A graphical representation of the variations of four of these stations ( Mobile* Alabama ; Jacksonville and Pensacola , Florida ; San Diego , California ) is given in Plate 2 , and for the sake of comparison the pressure of Cordoba , with the inverted curves representing the Bombay pressure and solar prominence variation* This series of curves refers in $11 cases to the variations of the means of the high pressure ( winter ) months ( October to March in most cases ) .
At Cordoba , which has a southern latitude , the high pressure months extend from April to September .
The result of the comparison shows that in this region of the world we have a large area , the pressure variations of which are strikingly similar to , but are the inverse of , those recorded in nearly the antipodal part of the globe . .
The facts observed are so suggestive that we are continuing the inquiry by collecting and discussing observations made in other areas .
Although the general agreement between the two main sets of curves is most striking , there are minor differences which probably , as stated in the previous paper , will eventually help us to determine those cases in which the prominence effects on pressure are masked by some special local conditions .
It may be added that the available observations of prominences refer more directly to their quantity than to their intensity .
We wish to express our thanks to Mr. W. N. Shaw , F.R.S. , who kindly placed the records of the Meteorological Office at our disposal ; and to Mr. Hodgson , who has extracted the requisite data from the available records of pressure , and constructed some of the curves .

