~ R H Fig. 3 .
A~E h~B Fig. 23 .
B B C F ~ CD S red Purple L~ ~~ Fig. 16 .
R ~Vp~R ~PFO Fig 4 .
ABBY HGG YB red OB blue RP P~V ~~cPGR ~ l Fig. 5C A red green Fig. 18 .
~~q ~CBrH h Fig. 6 .
L l. Fig. 17 .
C red fFt red s Fig. 7 .
red from one ~ from q other ~ Fig. 19 .
R QB phM Fig. SNE B red ~HEA Fig. 9 .
LP ABG~W Fig. 21 .
H EDBh CDAXp HA Fig. 10 HFFT PB Fig. 12 .
CS CbE b ha Fig. 11 .
dG~ ce A c ~ ~~ IP me Fig. 23 .
P Fig. 26 n m N O ln RS mE Fig. 27 .
P ~Pm n N Rn mS ~ M~ ~ Fig. 28 a Fig. 24 .
hP A N LF LE Fig. 30 .
~ Q Fig. 29 .
o m n o AC ~B W X n mp oD YR F Fig. 31 .
f M N Philosoph. Transact. No. 348 .
Fig. 1 .
IV .
An Account of what appeared on opening the bigbelly 'd Woman near Haman in Shropshire , who was supposed to have continued many Years with Child .
Communicated by Dr. Hollings M.D. from Shrewsbury .
A Married Woman , near Haman about Three Miles from Shrewsbury , about the 40th Year of her Age , had then first the common Reasons to believe she was with Child : at the Time of her Account she had the usual Signs of Labour , and a good Midwife , tho ' mistaken , assured her it was so , but that the Child was so big she could not be delivered without bringing it away in pieces .
She not submitting to that , her Pains went soon off , and she continued without any other Disorders Nine Months longer , when she had again the Signs of Labour ; and the same Midwife assured her as before , and she persisting in her former Resolution , her Pains , after a Day or two went off .
Soon after her Belly swelled to a surprising Size , by which she got Subsistence for her Family by being seen as a Show .
I saw her first above twenty Years since , when her Belly was almost even with her Chin , the Weight of it so great , that she was obliged to support it with a Stool .
She could not stand without the help of a Rope from the Ceiling , which assisted her in changing her Posture of sitting She slept commonly with her Arms folded on her Belly , and her Head rested between them~ She had no swelling in her Legs : every other Part emaciated as usual in the like Cases .
Thus this poor Creature lived without any other considerable Complaint above Thirty Years , the most remarkable Circumstance , I think , in her Case .
She died in May 1715 , when this appeared to be an Ascites .
I need not mention the State the common Teguments must necessarily be in from so great a Distention , which had distorted many of her Ribs , and forced the Diaphragm so high , that it was surprising to find her breathing could be so long continued .
The Water was all contained in the Duplicature of the Peritonaeum , 13 Gallons besides a Quart that was spilt : it was saltish , with some little fat upon it , and towards the latter Running ting 'd with Blood as usual .
There was not any Water in the Cavity of the Abdomen , except what was contained in a kind of Bladder of the Shape I have sent , Fig~ 31 .
which lay a -cross the Fundus Uteri .
This was divided by a Cartilaginous Substance into two Cavities ; in one there was a Pint and a half , in the other three Parts of a Pint of Water .
I believe it was this ( I know not how ) imposed on the Midwife .
The Uterus was of the natural Size without any Alteration , except that the Os Tincae and Collum minus were filled with a gritty Substance , hard as Stone , which I take to be the Humour separated there , and coagulated by Time .
Mr. Cooper Tab. 15 .
Fig. 4 .
says he found the same Parts filled with a glutinous Matter , which he thinks is useful to prevent Abortion ; which if vitiated , Impregnation is hindered .
The Liver and other parts contained in the Abdomen , were forced into an incredible small Compass ( and by that Pressure a little changed in Shape ) to perform their Office so long ; to which the Muscles of the Abdomen , distented so as to be scarce discernible , could give but little , if any , Assistance .
The Awe that People have here for dead Bodies , tho ' never so prejudicial to the Living , would not suffer her Friends to let me make any farther Enquiry ; so that I can send no Account of any other Part .
The same Error hindered me examining another Woman , who died here about a Week after , of an Ascites which she had had Forty Years , any farther than to be satisfied she had Seven Gallons of Water contained between the Duplicatures of the Peritonaeum , and none in the Cavity of the Abdomen .

