]\gt ; Prof. J. Adams .
On the [ Jan. 13 , phonus stung in same manner with same resulk Again , " " Cockroach stung between abdominal terga " " Cricket stung in third leg , that leg became paralysed ; leg removed with scissors , and the animal became quite " " Gryllotalpa stun in one thigh , leg paralysed at once ; stung in opposite thigh , same result .
Other legs moving , over when placed on his back and crawls about .
Sbung in thorax ( dorsally ) , quite paralysed ; moves jaws , but will not turn over I have riade experiments with simple puncture for control\mdash ; that is without introduction of scorpion poison .
Using large insects for these experimenfs I obtained complete freedom from ill-effects when using simplc puncture , whilst the same species of insects when punctured with introduction of SCOl.pion poison were instantly paralysed and died in half an hour .
I also procured two small shore crabs .
One I punctured between two joints of the great chela of one side ; several drops of blood exuded , but they congulated , and the crab remained well .
The second I stung in same placs with scorpion 's sting , squeezing it to ensure poisoning .
The claw was immediately .
paralysed , and the crab gradually became torpid , and died in less than an hour . .
" " Supplementary Note on the Values of the Napienan Logarithms of 2 , , 5 , 7 , and 10 , and of the Modulus of Common Logarithms By Professor J. C. ADAMS , M.A. , F.R.S. , Loundsean Professor of Astronom .
and Geometry in University of Cambridge .
Received December 30 , 1886 .
vol. 27 of the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' pp. 88\mdash ; 94 , have given the values of the ithms referred to , and of the Modulus , all carried to 260 places of decimals .
These .
logarithms were derived from the five quantities which calculated independently , whele , and and a complete test of the accuracy of these latter calculations is afforded by the equation of condition In the actual case the values found for satisfied this equation to 263 places of decimaSs .
Although this proved that the values of the logarithms found in the above paper had been determined with a greater degree of accuracy 1887 .
] of the Napierian Logarithms , than was there claimed for them , yet I was not entirely satisfied with ] the result , since the of the fundamental quantities had been carried to 269 places of decimals , and therefore the above-cited cquation of condition showed thati some errors , which I had not suc- ceeded in tracing , had crept into the calculations so as to vitiate the esults beyond the place of decimals .
Of course in working with such a large number of interminable decimals , the necessary neglect of decimals of higher orders causes an uncertainty in a few of the last decimal places , but when dus care is taken , this uncertainty ought not to affect more than two or three of the last figures .
The Napierian logarithm of 10 is equal to , and the lfodulus of common logarithms is the reciprocal of this quantity .
Since the value found for the logarithm of 10 cannot be depended upon beyond 262 places of decimals , a corresponding uncertainty will ffect the valuc of the Modulus found from it .
In the operation of dividing unity by the assumed value of however , the quotien was carried to 282 places of decimals .
This was done for the purpose of supplying tlJe means of correcting the value found for the Modulus , without the necessity of repeating division , when I should have succeeded in the errors of calculation alluded to above , and thus finding a value of log10 which might be depended upon to a larger number of decimal places .
inadvertence , the valnes of the logarithms concerned , and the ting value of the Modulus , were printed in my paper in the ' Proceedings ' above eferred to exactly as they resulted from the culations , without the suppression of the decimals of higher orders , which in the case of the ithms were uncertain , and in the case of the were known to be incorrect .
Although it was unlikely that this oversight wollld lead to any misapprehension as to the degree of accuracy claimed for my resuIts in the mind of a reader of the paper itself , there might be a danger of such misapprehension if my printed results were quoted in accompanied by the statement that the later decimal pJaces were not to be depended on .
My attention has been recalled to this subject by the circumstance that in the excellent article on Logarithms which Dfr .
Glaisher has ibuted to the new edition of the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica , ' he has quoted my value of the Modulus , and has given the whole of the decimals as in the ' of the Royal Society , ' without expressly stating that this value does nob claim to be accurate beyond 262 or 263 places of decimals .
I have now succeeded in tracing and correcting the errors which vitiated the later decimals in my former calculations , and have extended the computations to a few more decimal places .
The comOn the Values of pierian Logarithms , .
[ Jan. 13 , putations of the fundamental logarithms have now been carried to 276 decimal places , of which only the last two or three are uncertain .
The equation of condition , , by which the accuracy of all this work is tested , is now satisfied to 274 places of decimals .
The parts of the several logarithms concerned which immediately follow the first 260 decimal places as already given in my paper in the ' Proceedings , ' are as follows:\mdash ; a 0570033668721278 Whence 255333 and 898492558/ 5 Difference Also the corresponding parts of the logarithms which are from the above are\mdash ; Whence 43651 55048934460 And the correction to the value of which was formerly employsd in finding the Modulus is -(263 ) 3369426015540 where the number within brackes denotes the number of cyphers which precede the first significant figure .
The corresponding correction of , the Modulus of common Iogarithms , will be found by changing the sign of this and multiplying by , the approximate value of which is Hence this correction is ( 264 ) 635513158747 And finally the corrected value of the Modulus is 1887 .
] On the Crimson Line of osphorescent Alumina .
25 11289 18916 22943 80366 4357$ 17253 83562 21868 25 which is true , certainly to 272 and probably to 273 places of decimals .
IV .
' On the Crimson Line of Phosphorescent Alumina By WILLIAM CROOKES , F.R.S. , .
Received December 30 , 1886 .
In a paper which 1 had the honour of communicating to the Royal Society*in March , 1879 , I described the phosphorescence of alumina and its various forms when under the influence of the electrical discharge in vacuo , in the following words:\mdash ; " " Next to ths diamond , alumina in the form of ruby is perhaps the most strikingly escenf stone I have examined .
It glows with a rich , full red ; and a remarkable feature is that it is of little what degree of colour the earth or stone possesses naturally , the colour of the phosphorescence is nearly the same in all cases ; chemically precipitated amorphous alumina , rubies of a pale reddish-yellow , and gems of the prized ' pigeon 's blood ' colour , glowing alike in the vacuum , thus roborating E. Becquerel 's resuIts on the action of on alumina and its compounds in the phosphoroscope . . . . .
The appeal.ance of the alumina gl.ow in the spectroscope is remarkable .
There is a faint continnous speotrum ending in the red somewhere near the line ; then a black space , and next an intensely brilliant and sharp red line , to which nearly the whole of the intensity of the coloured glow is due . . . .
This line coincides with the one described by E. Becquerel as being the most brilliant of the lines in the spectrum of the light of alumina , in its various forms , when in the phosphoroscope In I again returned to the subject , describing a large number of fresh experiments ; and I may add that the red glow of alumina has been , off and on , a subject of examination with me the year first named down to the present time .
Iu the papers above quoted I gave as accurate measurements of the alumina line as my instrumental means would then permit .
I have recent ] had occasion to go over these measnrements in a * ' Phil. Trans Part 2 , 1879 , pp. 660 , 661 .
Annals de Chimie et de Physique , ' vol. 57 , 1859 , p. 50 . .
Soc. Proc vol. 32 , pp. )

