IX .
On a new Property of the Tangents of three Archestrise ing the Circumference of a Circle , by Nevil Maskelyne,1D.o F. R S. and Astronomer Royal .
Read February 18 , 18o8 .
MR. WILLIAM GARRARD having shown me a curious property of the tangents of the three angles of a plane triangle , or in other words , of the tangents of three arches trisecting a semicircle , in a paper which I have communicated to this Society , I was led to consider whether a similar property might not belong to the tangents of three arches trisecting the whole circumference ; and , on examination , found it be so .
Let the circumference of a circle be divided any how into three arches A , B , C ; that is , let A+B+C be equal to the whole circumference .
I say , the square of the radius multiplied into the sum of the tangents of the three arches A , B , C , is equal to the product of the tangents multiplied together .
I shall demonstrate this by symbolical calculation , now commonly called ( especially by foreign mathematicians ) analytic calculation .
It may be proper to premise , that the signification of the symbolical expressions of the tangents of an arc , whether with respect to geometry or numbers , are to be understood according to their position as lying on one side , or the other side of the radius , passing through the point of commencement of the arc of the circle ; those tangents which belong to the first or third quadrant of the circle being considered as positive , and those belonging to the second and fourth quadrant , being of a contrary direction , as negative ; in like manner as thesines in the first semi-circle are considered as positive , and in the second semi-circle as negative ; and the cosines in the first and fourth quadrant are considered as positive , and in the second and third quadrants as negative ; they lying , in the second case , on the contrary side of the diameter passing through the point of ninety degrees , to what they do in the former .
Hence it easily follows , that the tangent of any arch and of its supplement to the whole circumference , or 360 degrees , are equal and contrary to one another , or the done negative of theothe r. ':Let ( t , : U , w , be put or the tghe three arches A , B , C respectively , and fr the r adius , and for the whole circumference .
Then A+B+C= o , and C=o -A+ B. r'z X t+U.By trigonomnetrty , At , A-+ B:= r t- , and the tang .
C= tang .
( A '+ B ) ' = tang .
A+ B , by what has been said above .
r2xt+u Therefore t , A +t , B+ t , C or t+u+w=t+u rt x.r-x t , '= t'u X --- ; r ; but tand u are the expressions for the tangents of A and B respectively , and 7+ is the expression for the tangent of C , or for w. Therefore , r2 xt+u+ w , or tc , he square of the radius multiplied into the sum of the three tangents o0fA , B , and C=tu w , or the product of the tangents .
Q.E. D. 123

