381 A Method of Estimating the Total Volume of Blood contained in the Living Body .
By J. 0 .
Wakelin Barratt , M.D. , D.Sc .
Bond .
, and Warrington York , M.D. Liverpool .
( Communicated by Prof. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received May 7 , \#151 ; Read May 20 , 1909 .
) ( From the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine .
) The determination during life of the total volume of blood contained in the living body is usually effected by Haldane 's method.* This consists in first estimating the percentage htemoglobin content of the blood and then determining the total haemoglobin content of the circulating fluid , the latter being effected by administering a known volume of carbon monoxide and observing the extent to which the haemoglobin of the red cells is in combination with this gas .
Copeman and Sherringtonf determined the volume of the blood in the living body by injecting a measured volume of 0-75-per-cent , solution of sodium chloride ( sp. gr. P0046 ) and observing the resulting fall in specific gravity of the blood .
Recently , while making an investigation upon haemoglobinaemia , we found it necessary to make estimations of the total amount of blood in the living body .
This we carried out by : ( 1 ) making a haemocrit estimation of the relative proportions , by volume , of red cells and plasma ; ( 2 ) injecting a known quantity of dissolved haemoglobin into the blood stream and determining the degree of the resulting haemoglobinaemia , from which the amount of plasma present can be calculated .
The method employed thus consists of two procedures , namely the estimation : ( 1 ) of the percentage ( by volume ) of plasma contained in the blood ( A ) ; and ( 2 ) of the total volume of plasma contained in the body ( B ) .
The total volume of the blood is x 100 .
A 1 .
To carry out the first procedure 0'20 c.c. of a 1-per-cent , solution of potassium oxalate was placed in a glass capsule and about 1 c.c. of the blood of the subject of examination , removed from a vein , added .
The volume of the mixture was then carefully measured , a hsemocrit determination made , and the percentage of plasma in the undiluted blood calculated therefrom .
* " The Mass and Oxygen Capacity of the Blood in Man , " ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' 1899\#151 ; 1900 , vol. 25 , p. 331 .
t " Method for Determining the Quantity of Blood in a Living Animal , " 'Journ .
of Physiol. , ' 1890 , vol. 11 , p. 8 ; also " The Specific Gravity of the Blood , " ibid. , 1893 , p. 71 .
Drs. Wakelin Barratt and Warrington York .
[ May 7 , An example will make this clear .
In an experiment upon a rabbit the volume of the mixture was 1*12 c.c. , and the proportion of plasma in the mixture determined by the hamiocrit 85'3 per cent. The proportion , by volume , of plasma in the undiluted blood was therefore ( liif x 1-12 _0'20 ) ^ = 82-1 Per cent2 .
To carry out the second procedure a solution of haemoglobin was prepared , usually by laking the red blood cells of the animal whose blood volume was to be determined , though in some experiments the red blood cells of another animal of the same species were employed instead of the animal 's own red cells .
To this end the required amount of blood was taken from a vein , usually by means of a cannula or hollow needle , and added to a sufficient quantity of a 1-per-cent , solution of potassium oxalate to prevent clotting .
The mixture was then centrifugalised , the supernatant plasma completely removed , and to the red cells distilled water added in amount just sufficient to produce laking .
When this had occurred , solid sodium chloride was added in the amount required to produce a 0'85-per-cent .
solution of this salt .
The red cell constituents which separated out on the addition of sodium chloride , forming a reddish white precipitate , were then separated by centrifugalisation and a dark red solution obtained .
The strength of this solution was determined by matching a portion of it , suitably diluted , with a solution containing a known percentage by volume of red blood cells , the solution being prepared by adding a measured amount of oxalated blood , previously submitted to a hsemocrit determination , to distilled water .
The matching was sometimes carried out in a Zeiss comparison spectroscope , but more frequently we employed the simpler plan of estimating the percentage of haemoglobin in the diluted solution by means of v. Fleischl 's haemoglobin-ometer , the scale of which had been previously standardised by means of solutions of haemoglobin representing known percentages by volume of red blood cells .
In this way the strength of the haemoglobin solution employed , which usually represented the amount contained in 25 to 40 per cent , of its volume of red cells , is determined .
A measured volume of this solution , corresponding to a known volume of red cells , was then injected into a vein of the animal whose blood volume was to be ascertained .
As soon as the injection was completed a sample of blood was taken from a vein on the opposite side of the body , added to a known quantity of a 1-per-cent , solution of potassium oxalate , and the volume o( the mixture measured .
The mixture was then centrifugalised and the percentage of dissolved haemoglobin determined as above described .
1909 .
] Method of Estimating Total Volume of Blood , .
383 If the plasma , obtained before injection , contained a small percentage of dissolved haemoglobin , as usually happens in the human subject , this was subtracted from that present after injection of haemoglobin solution .
When the total amount of haemoglobin injected ( C ) has been determined , and also the percentage of haemoglobin contained in the blood plasma after injection ( D ) , the total amount of blood plasma after injection ( E ) is calculated from the formula E = ^ x 100 .
From this the amount of fluid injected was subtracted , and to it should be added the amount of plasma withdrawn , if the animal had been bled before injection .
By way of illustration the continuation of the experiment upon a rabbit , already referred to in ( 1 ) , is shown below , the amount of haemoglobin ( C ) being expressed as before in terms of red blood cells in the moist condition , the volume of red cells being given instead of their weight in order to avoid calculation of the latter , and the percentage of haemoglobin ( D ) being similarly expressed in equivalent volume of red cells .
Amount of dissolved haemoglobin injected into blood stream .
C. Percentage of haemoglobin dissolved in blood plasma after injection .
D. y Total volume of blood plasma .
^ X 100 .
Total volume of blood [ heemocrit determination gave 82*1 per cent , by volume of plasma in undiluted blood ] .
j 0*74 c.c. dissolved in 0*85-per-cent .
NaCl solution , the total volume of fluid being 4*0 c.c. 0*73 per cent. 101 c.c. after injection 97 c.c. before injection 97 x 100 0 .
, 0 821 -11SC'\lt ; !In no case could any change in the general condition of the rabbits be observed after the injection of dissolved haemoglobin .
In man the injection of dissolved haemoglobin , obtained from the subject 's own red cells , in amount sufficient to cause the blood plasma to contain as much haemoglobin as was present in 1 per cent , of its volume of red blood cells , also produced no alteration of the general condition .
Aseptic precautions were employed throughout these procedures .
The amount of haemoglobin can be varied within wide limits .
If , however , the blood plasma contains less dissolved haemoglobin than would be represented by 1 per cent , of its volume of red blood cells , the natural colour of the normal plasma may interfere with the haemoglobinometer determination .
This is likely to occur if the blood plasma before injection is unusually dark , as sometimes occurs in pathological conditions attended with red cell 384 A Method of Estimating the Total Volume of , etc. destruction .
In such cases , and also when the degree of heemoglobinaemia was slight , we employed a Zeiss comparison spectroscope , provided with a cell of variable height , the estimation being made by matching the oxyhemoglobin bands of the plasma with those of a solution of hemoglobin of known concentration .
The accuracy of this method of estimating the total volume of the blood depends upon the precision with which : ( 1 ) the hemoglobinometer readings ( or the comparison spectroscope determinations ) are made ; ( 2 ) the condition of the plasma immediately after injection k ascertained .
In our observations the variation of successive haemoglobinometer readings of the same solution of haemoglobin did not exceed + 2 per cent , of the mean reading .
The mode of ascertaining the degree of fisemoglobinaemia immediately after injection is a matter of importance .
If only a small percentage of haemoglobin , representing less than 1 per cent , by volume of red cells , is present , no correction is ordinarily required when the plasma is obtained within three minutes of the injection , which generally occupies about one minute .
If , however , a sample of blood cannot be obtained so soon after injection , or again if a much higher degree of haemoglobinaemia has been produced , then an amount of dissolved haemoglobin sufficiently large to affect the determination of the blood volume may have disappeared before the sample is obtained .
In such cases , two or three determinations of the degree of haemoglobinaemia require to be made at short intervals as soon as possible after injection .
From these the percentage of dissolved haemoglobin present in the plasma immediately after injection can be calculated .
In a series of observations upon the rate of disappearance of dissolved haemoglobin from the blood plasma in the living body , Which will shortly be published , * the mode in which this calculation may be made will appear .
The advantage of the above method lies in the ease of its application , and the circumstance that the injection of haemoglobin is not attended with any recognisable alteration of the general condition .
* ' Annals \lt ; \#169 ; f Tropical Medicine anJ Parasitology , ' 1909 , vol. 3 , p. 1 .

