Further Researches on the Magnetic Phenomena produced by Electricity ; with some New Experiments on the Properties of Electrified Bodies in their Relations to Conducting Powers and Temperature .
By Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read July 5 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 425 .
] In this paper Sir Humphry Davy adds to his former details upon the subject of electro-magnetism , by tracing the general effects of the action of electricity on conductors , in their relation to this new property and to heat .
The magnetic phenomena he found the same , whether the electricity was small in quantity , and passing through good conductors of great magnitude , or whether the conductors were so imperfect as only to convey a small quantity of electricity .
That these magnetic powers are not affected by the mobility of the parts of fluids , Sir Humphry proved by the electrization of mercury and fusible metal , in glass tubes , which were thus made to attract iron filings and magnetic needles , while imperfectly conducting fluids did not , under similar circumstances , give any polarity to steel .
Electricity passed through air , however , produces this effect ; and Sir Humphry has succeeded in affecting the arc of fire by the approximation of a magnet .
In investigating the relative conducting powers of substances for electricity , Sir Humphry found that a wire kept cool is a better conductor than when heated ; and the knowledge of this fact led to the explanation of a very singular result , namely , that by applying heat to one part of a wire in the circuit , its other parts become colder , and that by applying cold they becoine hotter ; thus , when one part of a wire , heated to dull redness in the circuit , is cooled by ice , the remaining portion becomes white hot , whilst the application of the flame of a spirit-lamp renders the other part colder .
In discussing the relations of heat , magnetism , and chemical action , to electricity , Sir Humphry particularly adverts to the relative elevations of temperature which the different metals undergo during the transmission of electricity : thus , when a chain , composed of alternate lengths of silver and platinum is made the connecting medium between the poles of a powerful battery , the silver wire being four or five times the diameter of the platinum , the former metal is not sensibly heated , whilst the latter becomes intensely ignited .
Now if heat be regarded as material , we cannot suppose that it is expelled from the platinum because it may be thus generated indefinitely ; again , if dependent upon , or identical with , electricity , its quantity should be similar throughout the metallic chain .
In regard to the magnetism of this chain , the case is different , for every part of it exhibits equal magnetic powers ; so that the power appears directly as the quantity of electricity .
Sir Humphry Davy concludes this communication with some general remarks respecting the different phenomena produced by the agency of electricity ; whether they depend upon one or more species of ethereal matter , or whether they are merely exhibitions of the attractive powers and subtle motions of the corpuscles of common matter , are questions which remain for the determination of future researches and experiments .

