313 On the Intensity and Direction of the Force of Gravity in India .
By Lieut.-Colonel S. G. Burrard , B.E. , F.R.S. ( Received March 30 , \#151 ; Read April 13 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) Between 1865 and 1873 , observations were taken at 31 stations in India by Captains Basevi and Heaviside with the Royal Society 's seconds pendulums .
After 1874 , when the pendulum work had been closed , the deflection of the plumb-line was systematically observed in all parts of the country .
In 1901 a discussion of the evidence that had accumulated showed that determinations of the intensity of the force of gravity were badly wanted at many of the stations at which the direction of gravity had been measured , and in 1902 the Indian Government sanctioned the reopening of pendulum observations and the purchase of a new apparatus of von Sterneck 's pattern .
Great weight was for many years attached to the Indian pendulum results of 1866 to 1873 , but their accuracy has latterly been questioned .
In 1900 , Professor Helmert laid before the International Geodetic Conference at Paris his celebrated classification of the pendulum observations of all countries , in which he discussed and weighed the results of all observers from the earliest to the most modern with an impartiality and a knowledge of details that have rendered his conclusions authoritative .
In this report , which is the only existing critical summary of pendulum work , it is pointed out that Basevi had no means of measuring the flexure of his pendulum stand , and that he had , moreover , during the original standardisation at Kew , supported his pendulums , not on the stand subsequently used in India , but between a stone pillar and a wall .
Professor Helmert further shows that when Basevi visited the high Himalayan station of More , he substituted a light portable stand for that belonging to the Royal Society 's apparatus .
, The station of Mor4\#151 ; the highest pendulum station in Asia\#151 ; was included in Basevi 's programme at the request of Sir George Stokes ; the extraordinary deficiency of gravity , observed there , formed the basis of Airy 's and Pratt 's theories of mountain compensation , and has been discussed by all authorities .
In view of the wide extension of pendulum operations of recent years in Europe and America , and of the geodetic importance of Himalayan stations , it has been considered desirable to verify Basevi 's results , and to increase largely the number of his stations .
314 On the Intensity and Direction of Gravity India .
In 1904 , Major Lenox Conyngham observed with the new pendulum apparatus at four of Basevi 's stations in India , and found that the latter 's values were always too small .
Basevi 's observations at Dehra Dun had lasted four months , and had included 234 independent sets of swings taken at widely varying pressures and temperatures ; his first mean determination gave 86021*38 as the number of vibrations made by the mean pendulum in a mean solar day .
His second determination gave 86020*74 .
Lenox Conyngham 's recent observations show that these results are too small by four whole vibrations .
Lenox Conyngham 's observations at Madras , Bombay , and Mussooree indicate , however , that Basevi 's and Heaviside 's results are not in error by a constant quantity .
It seems probable that the flexure of the wooden stand of the Royal Society 's apparatus varied with temperature and humidity .
Pendulum observations are required now at many stations in India to corroborate the results obtained from recent observations of the plumb-line .
Prior to 1900 , deflections of gravity were attributed to accidental and local attractions , but it has now been shown that they can be classified by regions .
On all Himalayan meridians the direction of gravity has been found to follow one general law ; in the neighbourhood of the tropic , as we move northwards , its direction changes from northerly to southerly ; it continues then over the Ganges Valley to be deflected towards the south for some hundreds of miles , and it again becomes northerly as the Himalaya come into view .
A marked southerly deflection of gravity has been found to prevail without interruption throughout the vast Indo-Gangetic plains of Northern India .
If an observer working over the plains of Northern India were to trust only to his eye and his level , he would record the existence of a great mountain range to the north , and of low hills or flat plains to the south ; if , however , he were to disregard the evidence of eye and of level , and were to believe either his pendulum or plumb-line , he would come to the conclusion that he was standing between two mountain ranges , one of which , visible to the north , was rising abruptly out of the plains , whilst the other , invisible to the south , was slowly gaining in elevation for 300 miles .
If he were to trust to his lines of spirit-levelling , he would find that Dehra Dun , at the foot of the Himalayas , was 500 feet higher than Kalianpur , in Central India ; if he relied only on his pendulum results , he would discover Kalianpur to be 4700 feet higher than Dehra Dun .
The plumb-line at stations in Northern and Central India is thus influenced by two opposing attractions .
A new determination of the resultant attracModified Apparatus for the Measurement of Colour , etc. 315 tion at Kalianpur has now been made : at this station the attraction of the southern mass appears to be considerably greater than that of the northern and the resulting deflection of the plumb-line is calculated to be 6"-4 south .
Modified Apparatus for the Measurement of Colour , and its Application to the Determination of the Colour Sensations .
By Sir William de W. Abney , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received April 17 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The author describes a modification of his colour patch apparatus , in which two spectra are produced by the same beam that passes through the collimator and prisms .
With this apparatus two distinct patches of pure or mixed colours can be placed side by side upon a white screen , and when a set of three slits is placed in each spectrum , mixtures in one spectrum can be matched with mixtures in the other , or with pure colours and white combined .
This new apparatus , in which also the positions of the slits in the two spectra could be most accurately determined , was used for a redetermination of the visual sensation curves .
The fourth sensation , supposed by Burch to exist in the violet , cannot be traced , and in the author 's opinion is unnecessary .
The amount of inherent white in the colour which best represents the green sensation is redetermined , and found to differ slightly from that found previously , as is also the amount of blue sensation in the yellow and green part of the spectrum .
This last was only practicable by means of the new apparatus , which enabled pure colours to be isolated in one spectrum , and by mixtures matched in the other .
There is also a redetermination of the three sensations in the other parts of the spectrum .
The curves so determined vary slightly from those given in the author 's previous communication.* In the full paper the various equations for the colour sensations are discussed , and examples in detail given , and finally the curves are tabulated , and the sensation curves for equal stimuli derived from them .
In another table the sensation composition in luminosities of the spectrum colours , when all white has been deducted , is given , and the plotted curves * ' Phil. Trans. , : " The Colour Sensations in Terms of Luminosity , " 1899 .

