III .
" Approximate determinations of the Heating-Powers of Arcturus and a Lyrm .
By E. J. STONE , F.R.S. , First Assistant at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
Received October 13 , 1869 .
About twelve months ago I began to make observations upon the heatingpower of the stars .
My first arrangements were simply these : I made * In the next communication will be described the results obtained with vessels formed of other materials .
use of a delicate reflecting astatic galvanometer , and a thermo-electric pile of nine elements .
The pile was screwed into the tube of a negative eyepiece of the Greenwich Great Equatoreal , from which the eye-lenses had been removed .
I soon convinced myself that the heat , condensed by the object-glass of twelve and three-quarters inches upon my pile , was appreciable in the case of several of the brighter stars ; but the endless changes in the zero-point of the galvanometer-needle , and the magnitude of these changes , compared with those arising from the heating-power of the stars , prevented me from making any attempts to estimate the absolute magnitude of the effects produced .
Every change in the state of the sky , every formation or dissipation of cloud , completely drove the needle to the stops .
At the February Meeting of the Royal Astronomical Society I first became aware of what Mr. Huggins had done upon this question .
His arrangements , however , did not appear to me to meet the difficulties which I had encountered .
After some trials , I arranged my apparatus as follows , and with its present form I am satisfied .
13a and / 3 are two pairs of plates of antimony and bismuth .
The areas are about ( 0'075)2 inches , and their distance is about 0'25 inch .
The poles are joined over in opposite directions to the terminals of the pile and galvanometer .
The whole pile is screwed into a tube of one of the negative eyepieces of the great equatoreal .
This completely shuts the pile up in the telescope-tube .
A thick flannel bag is then wrapped over the eyepiece and terminals .
The bag is prevented from actually touching the case of the pile , and is useful in preventing the irregular action of draughts upon the case of the pile and terminals .
The wires are led from the terminals of the pile to the observatory library , where I have placed the reflecting galvanorneter .
This separation of the galvanometer from the telescope is most inconvenient , but it was absolutely necessary on account of the large moving masses of iron in the observing-room .
The two faces a and fi of the pile are so nearly alike , that the resultant current generated by any equal heating of them is exceedingly feeble .
The telescope is first directed so that the star falls between the faces a and / 3 , and allowed to remain thus until the needle is nearly steady at the zero .
The star is then placed alternately upon the faces a and / 3 , and the corresponding readings of the galvanometer taken as soon as the needle appears to have taken up its position , which usually takes place in about , ten minutes .
In order to avoid changes of zero , I have always reduced those readings by comparing a reading with star on face a with the mean of two readings with star on 13 , taken before and after the reading with star on a , or vice versa .
With this precaution I have never met with any anomalous results , although in making the observations I have usually joined over the terminals , without knowing the direction for heat , and have left this undetermined until the completion of the observations .
I mention this because the differences in the readings for star on a and star on 3 in the state in which I use my galvanometer are small .
On many nights , when very slight appearances of cloud prevailed , I have not been able to make any satisfactory observations at all .
The number of divisions over which the spot of light travels on the galvanometer-scale for a given difference of temperature of the faces a and / 3 is of course dependent upon many circumstances , and especially upon the position of the sensitiveness-regulation magnet of the galvanometer .
I have thought it useless , therefore , to publish any results unless obtained upon nights when the state of the galvanometer was eliminated by referring to an independent source of heat .
The way in which this has been attempted is as follows : After obtaining the differences in the position of the spot of light on galvanometer-scale for star on a and star on 3 , I remove the pile from the telescope , leaving all its galvanic connexions untouched , and mount the pile so that of the two halves of the face of a Leslie 's cube , containing boiling water , each radiates heat upon one face , a or / 3 of the pile , placed at a known distance of about twenty inches from the cube .
After some time the deflection of the needle will fall nearly to zero , and become steady enough for observation .
A piece of glass , G , is then placed to intercept from 3a portion of the heat radiating from one half of the face of the cube , and when the needle has taken up its position , the reading is taken .
Next the glass G is placed to intercept a portion of the heat from the face a , and the galvanometer-reading taken , as before , as soon as the needle has assumed its position of rest .
If , then , 0 is the mean difference of readings for star on face a and face t3 , q the mean difference for glass before ft and a , C the heating-power of each half of the cube at its distance from the faces of the pile , and p the measure of the absorption of the piece of glass G , then the heating-power of star =xC xp .
The quantity p has been determined by merely comparing the readings of the galvanometer , obtained by cutting off the whole heat from one-half of the cube , with that obtained by intercepting a portion of this heat by the glass G. A considerable number of accordant results gave p= 0725 .
To determine the quantity C , I have proceeded as follows : 1st .
I have placed two very delicate thermometers , one in contact with each face a and f3 of the pile , along the lines of junction of the plates .
The thermometers were separated from each other , and the direct radiation of one on the other prevented by the interposition of a piece of blackened card .
The two thermometers , with faces of pile in contact , were then exposed to the radiation of the halves of the face of the cube containing the boiling water .
A third delicate thermometer was read for registration of any change in the temperature of the surrounding air .
This thermometer was protected from the direct radiation from the cube .
The pile , with thermometers in contact , was then placed at different distances from the cube and the thermometer-readings taken .
I have usually taken readings at three distances , one at about 23*5 inches , another at 11'9 inches , another at 2'5 inches .
From a comparison of these readings with those taken before the heat from the cube fell upon the thermometers , I infer the heating-power of each half of the cube upon the thermometers , with faces of pile in contact .
Calling this quantity for one inch of distance Ht , I find for my cube in its present state , with slightly laquered face , HI= 130 ?
F. 2nd .
If H denote the corresponding heating-power of each half of the cube upon the faces of the pile a and / 3 , I have found the ratio H : HI as follows : The thermometers being placed in contact with the faces of the pile , and the galvanic connexions made , we may be certain that the temperature of the thermometers has been imparted to the faces of the pile when the needle is steady , provided that the current be carried from the therinometers without loss in the nature of increased resistance .
I have therefore compared the deviations produced by glass G before the faces f and a with the thermometers in contact and without thermometers in contact with two different amounts of resistance in circuit .
Such observations have been considered satisfactory only when the two resistances for thermometers in contact and without thermometers are sensibly equal .
This condition can be obtained by making the thermometers touch along the lines of junction of the antimony and bismuth ; but the connexion being one of mere contact , there is always danger of failure .
The following observations were made on 1869 , Aug. 19:1 .
Without thermometers : Resistance =R +0003 B.A. units .
Mean difference , G before 3--G before a= 735 div. 2 .
With thermometers in contact : Resistance =R1+0'003 B.A. units .
Mean difference = 698 div. 3 .
With thermometers in contact : Resistance =-R1'437 B.A. units .
Mean differences =324 div. 4 .
Without thermometers : Resistance R1+ 1437 B.A. unit , From ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) R= 1251 B.A. unit .
From ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) R1= 1*239 B.A. unit .
The resistances are therefore each sensibly equal to 1*245 B.A. unit .
From ( 1 ) ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) ( 4 ) we find -1 056 .
From the mean of such determiniations I find -='087 .
ii If , therefore , c is the distance of the pile from the cube in inches , we have C 1300 x1 087 .
And the heating-power of the star 130b0 0=31 087 x 0'725 xI may mention that the whole area of a face of the small pile may be considered as effective in the focus of the equatorcal .
The following observations have been made and reduced as above : 1869 .
Aug. 2 .
Observations of Areturus , altitude about 25 ? .
0=23 div. =lG160 div. c=17'6 inches .
Heating-power of star 130 23/ 17 x -3 2x I'087 X 0725 27 1 I ) ( 17,6 ) f60-37=00-0216 F. For the observations ?
the scale was removed nearer the galvanometer so that the effective radius for these readings was 2x 17 inches against 2X 37'5 inches for the observations of the star .
1869 .
August 11 .
Observations of Arcturus .
0= 27 div. q=114 div. c=24 inches .
Effective radius for observations , 32 inches .
Heating-power of Arcturus 130 o 27 32 3x 1'087 x 0i2 x , 75 ( 24)2 1107 75 =0 ?
'0180 F , 'TOL .
XVIITI The mean result of the observations on these two nights is 0 ?
00198 F. as a measure of the heating-effect of Arcturus in raising the temperature of the plate of antimony and bismuth when the heat is condensed by the object-glass of 12'75 inches .
If the absorption by the object-glass be considered insensible , the direct efect upon the pile would be 00 ?
000000685 F. I have not yet determined the coefficient of absorption for the objectglass , but if it be provisionally taken at 1 , the direct leating-effect of Arcturus =0 ?
000000137 F. The result may be otherwise stated as follows:-That the heat received from Arcturus is sensibly the same as that from the whole face of the cube containing boiling water at 4090 yards .
1869 .
August 14 .
Observations of 3 Lyrie at 8h 38-1 G.M.T. 0= 15 div. -= 686 div. Heating-power for P Lyrae 130 15 11'087X 0-725 : =0-0039 P. ( 24)2 686 Observations were subsequently made of a Lvyro , but the zero was unsteady ; and as the night advanced clouds appeared , and ultimately interrupted the observations .
1869 .
August 14 .
aLyree .
Star on astar on 3=11 div. 1869 .
August 15 .
The night was very clear , and the air steady , but completely saturated with moisture , at a temperature of about 52 ? .
The mean of fourteen observations of the difference of reading for a Lyras on a and ( 3 gave only 11 divs .
I have no doubt but that the small effect here obtained was due principally to the amount of moisture in the air .
1869 .
August 25 .
Observations of a Lyr .
Night fine .
Mean value of the difference from nine observations was 80=33 div. , S=669 , div. c=24 inches .
, heating-power of aL yr-_= 00 ?
0088 F. This result is again so much smaller th'an those obtained from Arcturus , although the observations of Arcturus were made under more unfavourable circumstances with respect to altitude , that I cannot but regard it as a fact that the starArcturus does give us more heat than aLyrse , -a result probably due to the same cause which gives rise to the difference in colour between these stars , viz. the greater absorption of the red end of the spectrum in the case of aLyrm than in the case of Arcturus .
I may here mention that on June 25 , 1869 , I made a direct comparison between Arcturus and aLyrse .
The result gave for the heat received from Arcturus : that from a Lyre : : 3 : 2 ; but on account of the observations of a Lyrae having been interrupted by cloud , they were not sufficiently numerous to eliminate mere errors of reading .
From the whole of these observations I think we may conclude that Arcturus gives to us considerably more heat than ac Lyrs ; that the amount of heat received is diminiished very rapidly as the amount.of moisture in the air increases ; that nearly the whole heat is intercepted by the slightest cloud ; that as first approximations , the heat from Arcturus , at an altitude of 25 ?
, at Greenwich is about equal to that from a three-inch cube containing boiling water at a distance of 400 yards .
The heat from a Lyrse at an altitude of 60 ?
is about equal to that from the same cube at a distance of about 600 yards .
The form given to the pile appears likely to be useful in many inquiries respecting differences of heatingpower .

