Note.-The Lake District gauges are 5 inches in diameter ; they are all of the same form and construction , and are elevated about 18 inches above the surface .
[ During 1844 , 1845 and part of 1846 , they were raised only 6 inches above the ground : in the course of the latter year they were altered to their present height .
From a series of daily observations made in 1 847 ( vide Table ) at Seathwaite , it appealrs that at 18 inches a gauge receives about 2-4 per cent. less rain than at 6 inches above the surface .
] The funnel rims are of stout sheet brass , so that the apertures cannot readily lose their circular form .
The metres ( HOWARD'S ) were all made by Mr. BATE of the Poultry , London .
The rain ( except at five stations ) is read off daily at nine o'clock A.M. , and each day is accounted wet in which any appreciable deposition is found in the instrument .
The rain at St. James 's Church Steeple , at Gatesgarth and Eskdale Head , is measured weekly ; and at Round Close and Gillerthwaite once or twice a month .
The gauges at and in the vicinity of Whitehaven , are 8 inches in diameter , and the metres show distinctly each separate thousandth of an inch .
Before concluding to use a gauge of 5 inches diameter for the Lake D'istricts , I placed one of HOWARD 's gauges in my garden , within a few yards of the 8-inch pluviometer , and measured the contents of each every morning for six months .
From the 1st of August 1843 to the 31st of January 1844 , the gauge of 8-inches aperture received 23*997 inches , and the 5-inch gauge 23'765 inches I attribute this trifling difference to the circumstance of the larger gauge-metre being graduated to T-oTooth of an inch , whilst the smaller only indicates r1eth , or half a hundredth of an inch .
Remarks .
1845.-At Seathwaite , there have been thirty-one days in which the fall was between 1 and 2 inches ; fifteen days between 2 and 3 inches ; five days between 3 and 4 inches ; one day between 4 and 5 inches , and one day between 6 and 7 inches .
On the 27th of November , at nine A.M. , there was measured at Seathwaite 6-62 inches , and on the 26th and 27th nearly 10 inches , being unquestionably the greatest quantity of rain which has ever been recorded in the same period in the British Islands .
At Langdale Head , in Westmoreland , the fall on the 27th was 6'28 inches , and on the 26th and 27th nearly 9 inches .
On the 22nd of April 1792 , Dr. DALTON measured 4'592 inches at Kendal , a remarkably wet locality ; but I find on inquiry that the greatest fall at that place in twenty-four hours , during the present century , is rather short of 3 inches .
Of the total quantity of rain measured in the Vale of Borrowdale in 1845 , 106,58 inches fell in the six months of January , March , August , October , November and December ; and nearly 46 inches in the two latter months .
The quantity in December , at some of the stations , is more than falls at many places in England during a whole year .
The fall at Seathwaite is more than three times the quantity at Whitehaven , one M2 83 of the wettest towns in the kingdom .
It exceeds the fall at Leeds by six times ; at Culloden by five and a half times ; at Doncaster and Highfield House , Nottinghamshire , by ve ties ; at Cirencester and Arbroath by five and a quarter times , and at Makerstoun near Kelso , by more than seven times .
Seathwaite exceeds Doncaster in January by fifteen times , in November by twentyone times , and in December by nine and a half times .
It exceeds the quantity at York in January by 16 inchles , or twenty times ; in March by nine times , and in November by twenty times .
It exceeds Dublin in March by fourteen times , in April by thirteen times , in October by five times , and in November by seven times .
1846.-At Seathwaite there have been thirty-six days in which the quantity of rain was between 1 and 2 inches ; six days between 2 and.3 inches ; five days between 3 and 4 inches ; one day between 4 and 5 inches , and one day between 5 and 6 inches .
At Langdale Hlead there have been thirty-eight days of the first , five days of the second , and four days of the third class ; and one day wherein the fall exceeded 4 inches .
The rain at Seathwaite on the 3rd and 4th of March amounted to 6'86 inches ; and on the 9th and 10th of October the fall was upwards of 9 inches .
On three days of the latter month there fell 12'17 inches .
Of the total fall of rain at Seathwaite in 1846 ( 143'518 inches ) , 103'24 inches fell to the share of January , February , March , July , August and October ; the other six months received much less than in the previous year .
In November and December 1845 , there fell 45inches ; in the corresponding months of 1846 , the fall but slightly exceeds 17 inches .
The table shows , that whilst the lake district stations generally have received more rain than in 1845 , the deposit in the five wettest localities is somewhat less than in the previous year .
1847.-A glance at the first table will show that during the year 1847 much less than arn average quantity of rain has fallen* ; indeed , had it not been for the enormous downfall in October , November and Decernber , the past year would have been one of the driest on record in this part of the country .
At the close of September the fall in the lake districts was from one-third to one-fourth less than the average of the two preceding years : thus , Seathwaite was 29'59 inctles , or nearly one-third ; Wastdale 18'76 inches , or one-fourth ; and Gatesgarlth 34*96 inches , ort more than one-thirdc short of the average of 1845 and 1846 , for the same period .
But the year 1847 is memorable for the remarkable fact , that as much or nearly as much rain fell in the last three months as descended during the other nine months of the year .
At the following stations , the quantity from October to Decelmber inclusive is considerably more than one-half of the whole annual depth .
January to October .
October to December .
Buttermere ... . .
39'79 ... ... .
42'53 Gatesgarth ... ... 49'97 ... ... .56'28 Troutbeck ... ... .
37'25 ... ... .
40-75 Stonethwaite ... ... 51'86 ... ... 54'35 At Seathwaite there have been thirty-two days wherein the quantity of rain was between 1 and 2 inches , five days between 2 and 3 inches , five days between 3 and 4 inches , one day between 4 and 5 inches , and one day between 5 and 6 inches .
At Langdale Ilead there have been thirty days of the first , three days of the second , and five days of the third class ( 3 to 4 inches ) .
There was hail in the lake districts on the 8th of June and on the 25th of July .
The last traces of snow disappeared from the mountains on the 1st of June , and the first appearance of hoar frost was on the 27th of September .
I purposely postpone any remarks on the temperature of the lake districts till the next report , when I hope to make some extensive comparisons with other and widely different localities .
The temperature of these valleys is much higher than is commonly imagined .
The observations both in 1846 and 1847 were taken with great care , and I have no dolbt of their correctness .
The radiation from the earth is much greater in summer than at the coast ; but in winter it appears to be so exceedingly small , that I have thought it best to omit the results for those months in the table till future observations have proved their accuracy or otherwise .
The Mountain Gauges .
The mountain gauges are on pretty much the same construction as those in the valleys , but the receivers are much more capacious , being calculated to hold nearly 80 inches of water .
These gauges are , with one exception , stationed on the high mountains surrounding the vale of Wastdale .
Sea Fell , the highest mountain in England , stands on the south , and Great Gable on the north side of the valley .
The gauge above Sty Head Tarn is on the shoulder of the Gable at the eastern extremity of the vale : Sparkling Tarn is about 600 feet above the top of Sty Head Pass , in a southerly direction , and 1260 feet higher , bearing south-west , are Sea Fell Pikes .
The bearings of the several stations from the gauge at Wastdale Head are as follow:-Sca Fell , S. ; Gable , N.N.E. ; Sty Head , N.E. ; Sparkling Tarn , E. by N. ; and Seatollar Common in Borrowdale , N.E. , distant four and a half miles in a direct line .
The gauges on Sea Fell , Gable and Seatollar , are on the extreme summits of these mountains , and the whole of the instruments are freely exposed to the action of wind and rain from almost every point of the compass .
Appended to the tables for 1846 I find the following remark:- " It would be premature , from the scanty data before me , to draw any decided inference as to the gradation in the quantity of rain at these great elevations above the sea .
But it seems probable that in mountainous districts the amount of rain increases from the valley upwards , to an altitude of about 2000 feet , where it reaches a maximum ; and that above this elevation it rapidly decreases .
" The Table for 1846 exhibited the rain-fall of the summer months only , but the additional returns of 1847 , obtained in every variety of season , confirm the above deductions in every essential particular , 85 so that we may fairly assume the combined results to be indicative of a physical law , so far at least as relates to the particular locality in question .
Thus , in twenty-one months , The Valley. .
160 feet above the sea , has received 170'55 inches .
Sty Head ... .
1290 , , , , 18574 , Seatollar Common 1334 , , , 180'23 , Sparkling Tarn. .
1900 , , , 207-91 Great Gable. .
2925 , , 136'98 , Sea Fell ... .
3166 , 128'15 , An apparent exception to this law occurs in the gauge stationed at Brant Rigg , about midway between the top of Sty Head and the vale of Wastdale , at an estirnated height of 500 feet above the sea , and which in last year has received about oneeighth , or twelve and three quarters per cent. less rain than the valley .
This is the only one of the gauges situated on the slope of a mountain ; it is on the windward side , and I imagine that in such a position , eddies or counter currents are produced in windy weather , which cause a less quantity of water to be deposited in the instrument than is due to the elevation .
We know that all sloping roofs , from the same cause , materially diminish the receipts of rain-gauges .
It will be observed that the amount of water received by the Seatollar gauge is invariably less than the deposit in the adjacent vale of Seathwaite , and the deficiency is pretty equable in every month of the year .
I am unable to give any satisfactory reason for this apparent anomaly , or to account for the very great excess of rain in this valley over all others in the lake districts .
As the gauge on Seatollar is two or three miles distant in a direct line from the others , the near approach of its receipts to the Sty Head gauge , about the same elevation , is rather remarkable .
In 1846 the Seatollar exceeded the Sty gauge in quantity , which it should do if the assumed height be correct .
By referring to the table for the summer months , we find that between the Ist of May and the 31st of October , the gauge at 1290 feet has obtained nearly twelve per cent. more rain than the valley ; at 1334 feet , nine and a half per cent. more ; at 1900 feet , twenty-nine per cent. more ; at 2928 feet , seven and a half per cent. less ; and at 3100 feet , thirteen and a half per cent. less than the valley .
In the winter months ( November to April inclusive ) the gauge at 1290 feet has received four and a half per cent. more than the valley , and at 1334 feet exactly the same quantity as the valley ; at 1900 feet , eleven and a quarter per cent. more ; at 2928 feet , thirty-eight and a half per cent. less ; and at 3100 feet , forty-two and a half per cent. less than the valley .
The difference in the proportion to the valley between the summer and winter half-year , as shown in the tables , is rather startling .
When much snow falls , doubtless a considerable proportion is lost to the instrument , either * The height of Seatollar Common has not been correctly ascertained .
86 by its being blown out of the funnel , or by the orifice getting choked up .
But I do not think that this cause alone is at all adequate to account for the great comparative deficiency in the winter months , for there was very little snow on the mountain tops during the winter of 1846-47 , less I am told by one of the oldest residents in the Fell Dales , than he almost ever remembers .
At Whitehaven we had no snow worth naming , except on the night of the 23rd of Decemnber , when it covered the ground to the depth of nearly an inch , but disappeared in the course of the ensuing morning .
The late Mr. CROSTHWAITE of Keswick , by means of marlks on the side of Skiddaw , and with the assistance of a telescope at his riesidence , made two or three daily observations on the height of clouds for several years , and it is clearly proved by his tables , that the clouds are lowest in the three first and three last months of the year* .
Moreover , Dr. DALTON affirms in his " Meteorology , " that the clouds are seldom a mile highl ( or little more than 1time the altitude of Sea Fell ) in this climate in winter .
Now the Doctor here probably alludes to , or at least includes , the most elevated clouds , such as the cirri , and some varieties of the cirrostratus .
But there can be no doubt , that between the months of November and March , the under surface of the nimbus or rain-cloud ( the lowest except the stratus ) is far below the tops of our highest mountains , and I have reason to believe , not unfrequently , its upper surface also : when this is the case , the gauges on Sea Fell , Gable , &amp;c. will receive no rain at all , when it is descending abundantly in the valleys beneath .
I have a well-authenticated instance of such an occurrence , even in the middle of summer .
On the 5th of July 1846 ( the hottest day in the year ) this county was visited by a dreadful storm of thunder , lightning , hail and rain , which continued from two to half-past four o'clock in the afternoon .
Two gentlemen who happened to be on the top of Skiddaw during this storm , state that , whilst the rain was pouring down in torrents in the valley , not a dropfell on the summit of the mountain .
In this elevated position the sky was clear , and the atmosphere calm and untroubled , when below them the elemental war was raging with the most terrific fury .
The spectators describe the scene as awfully grand , beyond conception .
The lowness of the rain-cloud at this season is , I apprehend , the principal cause of the small quantity of rain in proportion to the valley , during the winter as compared with the summer months .
I shall conclude this paper with a few general remarks .
In the year 1836 or 1837 , Mr. BECK of Esthwaite Lodge , about two miles to the westward of Windermnere Lake , began to register the amount of rain in that neighbourhood , and between 1837 and 1844 , the annual quantity varied from 60 to 8,6 inches .
In 1843 , Mr. JEFFERIES obtained 90 inches at Grasmere .
The results at Esthwaite and Grasmere were received with astonishment by meteorologists , not unaccompanied by some degree of suspicion as to their correctness .
Indeed it was with the view of removing all doubt on the matter , that in the year 1844 I was induced to begin the present series of experiments on rain amongst the hills of Cumberland .
Yet 90 inches would now be thought a small quantity for some parts of the Lake District , even in a year of drought ! !
I am frequently asked by persons unacquainted with such matters , what beneficial end I expect such a series of experiments to lead to , and what information I have gained in return for my loss of time and trouble .
To this question I may reply , they have shown us , that at least 60 inches more rain is deposited in England than we were previously aware of ; that 150 inches sometimes descends in the Lake District in a year , more than falls in most parts of the tropics with which we are acquainted , and sufficient to drown standing , two of the tallest men in Great Britain , one on the top of the other .
They have further informed us , that 6 } perpendicular inches of water is sometimes precipitated from the atmosphere in twenty-four hours , and 10 inches in forty-eight hours , a quantity which would be thought large for any two consecutive months in most parts of England .
We have further ascertained that the almost incredible depth of 30 inches occasionally descends in a single month ; a fall nearly equal to the calculated average for all other parts of England in a year* .
The experiments have , in short , enabled us to collect a number of new and curious facts , bearing on the quantity and very unequal disttibutiort of rain in this island .
We have also ascertained , with a high degree of probability , the law of the gradation in the amount of rain , at various intermediate points , between the valleys and the tops of our highest mountains .
A little consideration will greatly lessen our surprise at the enormous quantities of water deposited in the hilly districts of Cumnberland and Westmoreland , and at the consequent unequal distribution of rain in the climate of Great Britain .
To those unacquainted with these localities , it may be briefly stated , that the lake district valleys radiate from a series of mountains of slate and primitive rock , having the Gable , 2928 feet in height , as a nucleus or central point , and in the immediate vicinity of which are Sea Fell and Pillar , of the respective elevations of 3166 and 2893 feet ; and Great End , Bowfell and Glaramara , not much inferior in altitude .
These mountains are distant only about thirteen or fifteen miles , in a direct line from the Irish Channel , and as no hills intervene , they are consequently fully exposed to our wet and prevailing winds , which are the south-west .
The warrm south-westerly current arrives at the coast loaded with moisture obtained in its transit across the Atlantic : now our experiments justify us in concluding , that this current has its maximum density at about 2000 feet above the sea level ; hence it will travel onward until it is obstructed by land of sufficient elevation to precipitate its vapour ; and retaining a portion of the velocity of the lower parallel of latitude whence it was originally set in motion , it rapidly traverses the short space of level country , and with little diminution of its weight or volume ; but on reaching the mountains , it meets with a temperature many degrees lower than the point at which it can continue in a state of vapour ; sudden condensation consequently ensues in the form of vast torrents of rain , which in some instances must descend almost in a continuous sheet , as when 9 or 10 inches are precipitated in forty-eight hours .
When we reflect that a warm moist current , perhaps only 3 ?
or 4 ?
above the point of saturation , in coming in contact with the mountain ridge , probably meets with a stratum of air 10 ?
or 15 ?
lower than its own inherent temperature , we shall cease to marvel that such quantities as four or five , or even six perpendicular inches of water should be deposited in these localities in the course of a few hours .
The mountains are , in fact , huge natural condensers , destined to force from the atmosphere the mighty volumes of water requisite for the supply of our lakes and rivers .
I have before stated that I am unable to offer any satisfactory reason for the great excess of rain at Seathwaite over all the other valleys ; judging from its situation , I should , a priori , have looked for the greatest fall at Wastdale Head , as it is surrounded by the highest mountains , and the valley opens oult fairly to the south-west .
But the maximum quantity is found to obtain , not where theory would indicate , but in the very identical spot where it is most required , in the vale of Borrowdale , which affords the principal supply of water to the extensive and picturesque lakes of Derwent and Bassenthwaite ; thus adding one more to the multitudinous instances which surround us , of the wonderful adaptation of external nature to the physical wants and requirements of man .
Whitehaven , March 15 , 1848 .
On the Meteorology of the Lake District of Cumberland and Westmoreland ; including the results of Experiments on the fall of Rain at various heights above the Earth 's surface , up to 3166feet above the mean sea level .
By JOHN FLETCHER MILLER , Esq. Communicated by Lieut.-Col. SABINE , For .
Sec. R.S. Received April 4 , -Read May 18 , 1848 .
Introduction .
NEARLY four years have now been devoted to the investigation of the fall of rain in the lake districts of Cumberland and Westmoreland ; and two complete years have elapsed since the experiments were commenced , with a view to ascertain the amount of rain deposited at great elevations above the sea , extending to the tops of our highest English mountains .
As the investigations proceeded , some remarkable results were elicited , which coming to the knowledge of the Royal Society early in last year ( 1847 ) , the Council kindly expressed a wish to contribute , from the Donation Fund , the sum of twenty pounds towards the current expenses attending the inquiry .
The donation was accompanied by a request , that as early as convenient after the close of the then current year , I would transmit to the Royal Society a resumf of all that I had done in this department of meteorology .
This resumd I have endeavoured to communicate to the Society in the annexed paper .
YWhitehaven , March 1848 .
J. F. MILLER .

