138 M. Janssen on the Solar Eclipse of Dec. 1871 .
[ Feb. vatives were the same as those of the hexane from petroleum ; it must , however , be stated that the boiling-points of some were a little higher than those of the petroleum hydrocarbon , and there was also a marked difference observed between the two caproic acids .
That from mannite gave a well-crystallized barium-salt , whilst that from petroleum could only be obtained in the amorphous state ; but as the two secondary alcohols yield both normal butyric acid , the chemical constitution of the two hexanes must be the same .
( 3 ) Dipropyl.\#151 ; This hydrocarbon was prepared by acting with sodium on primary propyl iodide ; boiling-point 69'\#151 ; 70 ' ; specific gravity at 17'=0,6630 .
The quantity obtained was too small for further investiga-tion ; but the mode of its formation shows that it must have the same constitution as the two other hexanes .
Heptane or normal heptyl hydride , C7 H16 ; boiling-point 97''5-9S0.\#151 ; This hydrocarbon , which is also found in petroleum , gives a secondary alcohol ( boiling-point 160'\#151 ; 162 ' ) , which is methyl-pentyl carbinol CHI C H* ( C'H'OJEI* as the acetone obtained from it yields on oxidation acetic acid and normal valerianic acid .
The primary heptyl alcohol boils at 170Q~172 ; on oxidizing it , cenanthylic acid , boiling at 219'\#151 ; 222 ' , was formed , which was found to be identical with the acid obtained from castor-oil .
Octane or normal dibutyl , C8 H18 , is easily obtained by the action of sodium on normal butyl iodide .
It boils at 123'\#151 ; 125 ' , and has at 17 ' the specific gravity 0-7032 .
As the octane from methyl-hexyl carbinol , as well as that which Zincke obtained from primary octyl alcohol , have the same boiling-points and specific gravities , it appears most probable that these three hydrocarbons are identical .
IV .
" Note on the Eclipse of the Sun ( Dec. 1871 ) as observed at Sholoor .
" By M. Janssen .
Communicated by the President .
Received January 15,1872 .
Monsieur le President , \#151 ; J'aurai l'honneur d'adresser a la Society Royale de Londres un memoire detaille de mes observations de l'eclipse , mais je profite du depart de ce courrier pour vous informer des principaux resultats obtenus .
Sans entrer dans une discussion qui fera partie de ma relation , je dirai d'abord que la magnifique couronne observee a Sholoor s'est montree sous un aspect tel , qu'il me paraissait impossible d'admettre ici une cause de l'ordre de phenomenes , ou de diffraction , ou de reflexion sur le globe lunaire , ou encore de simple illumination de l'atmosphere terrestre .
Mais les raisons qui militent en faveur d'une cause objective et circuni " solaire , prennent une force invincible quand on interroge les elements lumi-neux du phenomene .
1872 .
] Letter from His Majesty the Emperor of Brazil .
139 En effet , le spectre de la couronne s'est montre dans mon telescope , non pas continu , comme on l'avait trouv^ jusqu'ici , mais remarquablement complexe .
J'y ai constat^ : les rays brillantes quoique bien plus faibles du gazhydrogfcne qui form le principal Sle'ment des Protuberances et de la Chromosphere ; La raie brillante verte qui a deja etd signale'e aux eclipses de 1869 et 1870 , et quelques autres plus faibles ; Des rays obscures du spectre solaire ordinaire , notamment celle du sodium ( D ) .
Ces rays sont bien plus difficiles a apercevoir .
Ces faits prouvent 1'existence de mature dans le voisinage du soleil , matiere qui se manifest dans les Eclipses totales par des phenom^nes d'emission , d'absorption et de polarisation .
Mais la discussion des faits nous conduit plus loin encore .
Outre la matiere cosmique , ind^pendante du soleil , qui doit exister dans le voisinage de cet astre , les observations d\amp ; nontrent l'existence d'une atmosphere Vendue , excessivement rare , a base d'hydrogene , s etendant beaucoup au-dela de la Chromosphere et des Protuberances , et s'alimen-tant de la matiere m6me de celles-ci , matiere lanc6e avec tant de violence a travers la photosphere , ainsi que nous le constatons tous les jours .
La raretd de cette atmosphere , a un certain distance de la chromosphere doit etre excessive ; son existence n'est done point en disaccord avec les observations de quelques passages de cometes pres du soleil .
J'ai l'honneur d'etre , Monsieur le President , Votre respectueux et devoud serviteur , Janssen .
February 8 , 1872 .
GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , C.B. , President , the Chair .
The Right Hon. George Joachim Goschen was admitted into the Society .
The following communications were read : I. " A Letter from His Majesty the Emperor of Brazil , " addressed to General Sir Edward Sabine , K.C.B. Paris , 31 January , 1872 .
Dear Sir , -I am highly pleased by the honour that the Royal Society of London has conferred upon me , electing me as one o i s e '^s\#187 ; very happy that the Statutes allow the intrusion into sue a earne^ o y to a Foreign Prince whose merit only consists in being an a m science and a friend to its noble interpreters .
, , T 1 beg you , Sir , to present my hearty thanks to your colleagues , that feel proud to call now our colleagues .
( Signed ) D. Pedro d Alcantara .

