]\gt ; 196 Mr. T. .
Baker and Prof. L. N. G. Filon .
maxima , but it seems probable that there is a connection between which will be disclosed by further experiments .
The work scribed above was carried out in Dr. Eccles ' laboratory , under his direction and at his gestion .
I wish to thank him for having initiated me into the use of the apparatus , and for constant help and advice during the progress of the On a Theory of the Second Order Longitudinal Spherical Aberration for Optical System .
By T. .
BAKER , Instructor Commander .
; and L. N. G. FILON , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Goldsmid Professor of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics in the University of London .
( Received December 2 , 1919 .
) ( Abstract .
) 1 .
The object of this investigation is to establish a formula for the longitudinal spherical aberration of rays which traverse a symmetrical optical system in an axial plane that shall be capable of fairly easy computation for any combination of lenses , and at the same time shall be accurate to the second order and free from certain important difficulties of convergency which occur in certain neighbourhoods when we attempt to use for the aberration the method of aberration of successive orders .
From the point of view of the optical designer , the usual theory of aberrations , which , for all practical purposes , is largely restricted to the first order , is known to give an unsatisfactory approximation .
In practice , the designer adopts a semi-empirical method of tracing a number of rays through the system by means of the trigonometrical equations , a method which is laborious and lengthy , and which can at best give only incomplete information and very limited guidance for effecting improvements .
2 .
The type of formula established in the present paper was originally by an empirical formula discovered by the authors*when trying to fit the aberrations of a series of thick lenses , obtained from the ray paths calculated trigonometrically .
This formula , when tested , fitted the results * Transactions of the Optical Society , ' Deoember , 1918 .
for a Symmetrical Optical System .
197 with surprising closeness , well beyond the accuracy of the ordinary series of aberrations , even when the second order was included .
The justification of it on mathematical grounds was not , however , obvious , and it was some time before the authors were able to establish it .
This justification is given in the present paper .
3 .
After a description of the notation the question of convergency of the series of aberrations is discussed .
It is shown that when the magnification exceeds numerically a certain limit the functions represented by the series of aberrations of successive orders may possess not only poles but branchpoints , and that in a critical neighbourhood the range of validity of the developments dwindles to zero .
These characteristics are shown depend , not only upon the object and positions and the curvatures of the refracting surfaces , but upon the argument in powers of which the development is made , in particular according as the developments proceed in ascending powers of functions of the , or of the incident , inclination of the ray to the axis of the optical system .
It is proved that developments in terms of the incident inclination , or , what amounts to same thing , of the slope of the\ldquo ; Gaussian\ldquo ; emergent ray , are free everywhere from branch points within a fixed finite radius , and have in general a more rapid convergence than developments in terms of the actual emergent inclination 4 .
The formula for the longitudinal aberration which is discussed in the present paper is of the type where is the slope of the ray calculated by Gauss ' method , A is the usual coefficient of first order aberration , and is another coefficient , of which the value is found .
The coefficients A and are polynomials in the magnification , A being of degree four and of degree three .
This formula is shown to be correct as far as the second order inclusive for a single refracting surface .
For a single lens it requires to be supplemented by an additional term in the numerator , where is a polynomial of sixth degree in the magnification .
Calculation shows that this additional term , in the majority of , is of slight importance , at any rate for a single lens .
5 .
A parallel formula is found for the well-known " " sine-ratio , \ldquo ; viz. : , where is the paraxial sine-ratio and .
This formula holds 198 Sphervcal Aberration for Symmetrical Optical / System .
good as far as the second order for the single r surface .
In the more general case we have , where the formula holds as far as the first order of aberrations only ; the order of aberrations for the inclinations of the rays not being required for our present purpose .
The coefficients and above are found to be quadratics in the cation , and the second formula , although on development it gives correct only as far as , generally leads to a much irnproved ) erical determination of the inclination .
6 .
The paper goes on to show how formulae of similar type can be established for a combination of two or more systems , and how to obtain the for the combined system in terms of the partial 's and the partial nifications .
It is found that the partial coefficients for each of the component systems enter into the equations of combination , so that the contribution of any lens , or groups of lenses , to the total aberration can be readily isolated .
7 .
Certain important invariant relations , independent of the number and shape of the refracting surfaoes and connecting the quantities and also the corresponding quantities for the same optical systems reversed , are proved .
8 .
Finally , explicit expressions for for both thick and thin lenses , in terms of the focal length and the two curvatures , are given for reference .
9 .
Stress is laid on the closeness of fit of the formula wherever it has been found possible to test it .
This closeness of fit appears to go beyond mere accuracy to the second order , and suggests that progress in the algebraic treatment of the aberrations of a symmetrical optical instrument may well be looked for , not so much line of development in series , but in other mathematical directions , such as inued products or possibly continued fractions .

