III .
An Enquiry into a Discovery , said to have been made by Signor Valsalva of Bologna , of an Excretory Duct from the Glandula Renalis to the Epididymis .
By Mr. John Ranby , Surgeon , F. R. S. THE late learned Signor Valsalva having some Time ago discovered a Vessel , which he took to be an Excretory Duct going from the Glandula Renalis , to the Epididymis in Men , and the Ovarium in Women ; anAccount whereof was published in the Gion .
de Litterati , 1719 .
and afterwards inserted into the Philosophical Transactions No 385 .
I lately procured a human Body , in order to search for it , which I did with all the Diligence I was capable of .
I was not so happy as to discover any Duct of this Kind , but , having injected the Aorta , I found the Arteries going to the Glandulae Renales disposed , as hath been represented according to the Life , in the annexed Figure .
Now whether that Branch of the Artery , which from the Glandulae Renales goes down on both Sides towards the Testicles , without supplying any of the neighbouring Parts , might not have been mistaken by the abovementioned learned Anatomist for an Excretory Duct , all Arteries being generally in dead Bodies free from Blood , and of a whitish Colour , I will not presume at present to determine , for Want of farther Experiments .
EXPLANATIO N. Fig. VI .
AA The right Kidney .
BB The left Kidney .
CC The descending Trunk of the Aorta .
D The right emulgent Artery .
E. The left emulgent Artery .
F The right Glandula Renalis .
GG The right spermatick Artery .
H The left Glandula Renalis .
II The left spermatick Artery .
KK The Ureters .
aaA small Artery arising out of the descending Trunk of the Aorta , a little above the right emulgent Artery .
It sends two Branches bb upwards to supply the right Glandula Renalis .
A third Branch cc goes downwards towards the right spermatick Artery G G , and then farther in Company with the same to the right Testicle .
ddA small Artery arising out of the left emulgent Artery , near the descending Trunk of the Aorta , and going directly upwards to the left Glandula Renalis H. eeA small Artery arising out of the descending Trunk of the Aorta , a little below the left emulgent Artery .
It divides into two Branches , one whereof ff goes upwards between the emulgent Artery and Vein to the left Glandula Renalis , the other gg downwards , towards the left spermatick Artery , and in Company with the same to the left Testicle .

