]\gt ; PRO CEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL November 21 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the In pursuance of the @tatutes , notice was iven from the Chair of ensuing Anniversary , and the list of Officers and Council osed for election was read as follows:\mdash ; Spottiswoode , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. \mdash ; John Evans , F.G.S. , F.S.A. Secrctaries .
, LL D .\mdash ; Alexander William Williamson , .D .
Oihcr Iembers of the Council.\mdash ; Frederick A. Abel , C.B. , .C .
S. ; William Bowman , F.R.C.S. ; William CarrutlJers , .P.L.S .
; General Henry Clerk , R.A. ; William Crookes , .P .
C. S. ; Sir Robert Grove , M.A. ; , VerIlon Harcourt , F.C.S. ; Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker , C.B. , K.C.S.I. , D.C.L. ; Admiral Sir Astlcy Cooper Key , K.C.B. ; Lieut. Sir Hellry Lefroy , .
; Lord Lindsay , P.R.A.S. ; Sir John Lubl , .
; Lord Rayleigh , M.A. ; ] William Siemcns , D.C. .
; John Simon , C.B. , D.C.L. ; Professor Allen Thomson , M.D. , F.R.S.E. The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordored for them .
The Rev. Thomas George Bonney , Dr. John and Mr. Schafer were admitted into icty .
Gencral Boileau , Clerk , Mr. J. Evans , Dr. Glad , stone , .
Simon having been nominated by the elected by Auditors of the 's Accounts on of the Society .
VOL. XXYIu .
Mr. J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 , The following Papers were read : \mdash ; I. ' On a method of using the Balance with delicacy , and on its employment to determine the Mean Density of the Earth By J. H. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , Demonstrator in the Physical Laboratory , Owens College , Manchcster .
Communicated by Professor B. STEWART , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1878 .
In the ease and certainty with which we can determine by the ance a relatively small difference betweon two large quantities , it probably excels all other scientific instruments .
By the use of agate knife edges and , even chemical baiances have been brought to such perfection that they will indicate one-millionth part of the in either pan , while the best bullion balances are ] more accurate .
greatest of accuracy which has yet been attained was probably in Professor 1iller 's weighings for the construction of the stnndard pound , and its comparison with the kilogramme , in which he found ] the probable error of a single comparison of two kilogrammes , by Gauss 's method , was part of a kilogramme .
* Phil. Trans 1856 .
) But , though the balance is eculiarly well fitted to detect the relatively small differences between qn antities , it ] not tIlerto been considered so well able to moasure absolutely small quantities as the torsion balance .
The latter , for instance , wa used in the Cavendish experiment , when the force by Cavendish was the attraction of a lead sphere upon a smalIer sphere , about lbs. , the force only amounting to part of this weight , or about part of a grain .
The two great sources of error , which render the inferior to the torsion balance in the measurement of small forces , 1 .
eater disturbing etfects produced by of temperature , such as convection currents and all unequal expansion of the two arms of the balance .
2 .
The errors arising from the ising of the beam on the supporting frame between each ) of varying flexure of the beam and inconstancy of the points of contact of the knife edges and planes .
The disturbances due to convectiou currents interfere wibh the torsion ) alance as well as with the balanccl , though they * Even so far back as , Count mford u } a one in a ( asure one in scven ) undred t ] \ldquo ; 1799 ) 1878 .
] using the Balance with .
reat delicacy , more easily guarded with the former , by reason of the nature of the experiments usually performed with it .
They might , perhaps , has been suggcsted by Mr. Crookes , be removed from both by using the instruments in a partial vacuum , in which the pressure is lowered to the " " ncutral point where the convection currents ccase , but the radiometer effccts have not yet .
But a cuum balance equires such complicated apparatus to work it , that it is perhaps better to follow the course which Bailey adopted the Cavendish experiment .
He sought to remove the forces as much as possible , and fo render those as nearly uniform as in their action a series of experiments , so tl at they might be detected and eliminated .
For this purpose the instrument was placed in a darkened draughtless , and was proteced by a woodcn casing gilded on ifs onter surffice .
Most of the hent from the bodies was reflected from the ce of the case by the gilding .
The heat absorbed only slowly penetrated to the interior , and so gradual its action , that , a considcrable time , the effcct be supposed ) uniform .
Under supposition it was then eliminated by the method of the tions .
The resting ( th is the central osition of equilibrium , which tho oscillations were ) of torsiou at ends of which were small attracted first observed ) sses pulled it one direction .
The mftsscs were moved rotlnd to the oppositc side , they the rod in the oppositc cction and resting point The masses were then replaced in their position and the point observed a third time .
three tions n made at intervals of time ; if , then , the ) ) effcct uniform .
the time , the mean of the and ) vntions what resting point would have been , had the rod been pulled that one direction at the same time it was actually observed wLeu pulled in the direction .
The difference between the sccond resting point and the means of the first and third might , therefore , be considered as duc to the attractions of the alone .
In the experiments of which this paper contnins an account , have endeavoured to apply this method of .
time as an ] cment to the ordinary balance .
But , before it could bc properly ) plied , it was to remove the errors dne to the raising of the beam between successive weighings , as they could not be idcrod to in any uniform way with the time .
I think I ) cted t is factorily , by doing ) aItogether with the raising of by the supporting , between the crhino S. For his I have oduced a one of the ) , which observcr can into action at any time , to fix that pnn in ntcver it be .
then removed 1 ; Mr. J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 , and another , which is to be compared with it , can be inserted in its place without altering the relative posilions of the planes and knife .
The counterpoise in the other pan , meanwhile , keeps the beam same state of flcxure .
The pan is then unclamped and the new position about which it oscillates is observed .
The only changes are due to the change in the and the effect of the cxternal disturbing forccs ; the latter we may consider as proportional to the time : if sufficient precautions have been taken , and by changlng the ohts and observing the position of the balance , we may eliminate their effects .
the method when applied to the ance docs not yet such good results as Baily ined from the torsion balance\mdash ; partly , I believe , beeause I have not yet been able to pply all precautions to remove cxternal forccs\mdash ; it still gives better results than would have been obtained lvithout it .
This may be seen by the numbers recorded in the tables , where a ressive motion of the .
poin may be noticed in most cases , in me direction , a series of experiments .
when this is not case , the method at once shows when the disturbing ) are irrcgular , and when we are justified in rejecting all observation on that account .
I give in this paper two applications of the one to the comparison of two weights , the other to determination of the mean density of the earth .
The latter is given only as an example of method , but I hope shortly to the riments with a large bullion balance , for construction of I ve had the.honour to obtain a graxlt from the Socicty .
The balance is llow in course of construction , by Mr. Oertling , of Lonclon .
of ratus .
The balance which I have entployed is ome of Oertling 's chemical balances , with a beam of ches , and fitted gate planes and knifc .
It will w up to a little than llb .
To protect it from suddcn of tcmpcraturc , the glass panes of the case are coYered with flanllel , on sidcs of is pasted gilt paper , with the metallic surface )ards .
case is enclosed in another outer case , a large box of iuch , lintd inside and out with gilt paper .
The experimcr-ts ve collducted in a darkened cellar under the chemical boratory at , which was kindly placed at my disposnl by ssor 1scoe .
As the and floors of the ) of crutc , any the room causes a Lcrable vtion of the alls .
It was ne , cessary , erefore , to support of the floor .
For this posc , six wooden were erected resting on the ground and frcely the floor to a height of 6 fect 6 inches it .
aro connected 1878 .
] using the Balance with great the top by a frame like that of the table , and stayed against each other to give firmness .
The wider part of the frame , near the posts and , is boarded over to form table for the tclescope and scale , by which the ' of the balance observed .
The box the ] ance rests on two cross picces , on the er pnrt , ABCD , of the frame , with the beam parallel to AD , and its end towards the telescope : In order to observe position of the beam , a mirror , inches by inch , is fixed in the c of the beam , and the reflection of a vertical scalc in this is with a telescope ( t ) placed close to the scale .
The from the scale passes two small cut in each of the cases of the balance and glazed plate glass .
The positiou of the beam is by the division of the scalc ) the cross line on the eyepiece of the ] escope .
The scale , which was phed on glasP , and reduced a scale , very carefully , has 50 divisi-ons to the inch .
These arc ruled onnlly with ten vertical cross lines .
It is possible to read , nlmost certainty , to a tonth of a ) division , or of an inch .
Since is about 6 feet from the scale , a tenth of a division means ular deflection of the of about The is from by a mirror , several inches in diamctc ] , reflects it a parallcl beam from a pttraffin .
A plate of boroulld glass betwcen the scale and mirror lie over the scale and , by altering the position of mirror , any of brilliancy may be to the of the scale .
A screen not in ents stray striking the balance-case .
method of which , of course , doubles the deflection\mdash ; been so far sufficiently accurate for my purpose ; that is to say , the errors from other sources are far greater than those from imperfec.tions of reading .
But in a long sel'ies of I used the following to multiply the deflcction still further .
A rather smaller fixed mirror , , is placed opposite to facing the beam-mirror , AB , fixed on the beam , and a few inches from it .
Suppose the beam-mirror to be detlected from the position arallel to ab , an angle , , to the position AB .
If a , PQ , perpendicular to strikes AB at , it will make an anlglc , , the normal at , and will bc reflected all , with its direction , and therefore with the normal , at , when it strikes it .
If it be iected a to AB , it will make an , 30 , with the normal , and tl1c reflected ST , will mak-e an , 40 , with the ction , , of .
lt be still further reflected betwcen tho , if nbcrs on scale rtll from below illt ) in the ) iudicated by a on } J. H. on a of [ Nov. 21 , desirable , each reflection at the mirror , AB , to the deflection of the ray .
I have , for instance , employed three reflections from the beam-mirror , so multiplying the deilection six times .
In this case , oue division of my scale , at the distance at it was placed from the corresponded to a deflection of 7\ldquo ; in the beam , and this could be subdivided to tenths by the eye .
The only limit to the multiplication arises from the imperfcction of the mirrors and the decrease in the illumination of the succcssive reflections .
* The chair of the observer is placed on a raised platform , and a small table rising from the platform and the on which the rest , is between the obscrver and the .
OR this he can rest his note-book an .
As differences of weight observed are sometimes ltlinute , the balance is made very sensitive\mdash ; usually in between The value of a division of the scale cannot be determined by known small weights to one pan , would usually be too great .
Any approach of the observer to case causes disturbances , so that the ordinary method of a observed distance along the beam is ) .
In sonlc1 } .iments made last year I calculated the force to the smal ] diffcrences in weight , in absolute measure , by actnal ngular defiection and the time of tiou .
a dero of the moment of inertia of the beam and it a of tions , it was possible to calculute the value of Ic .
the tions and subsequent calculatiollH ) ) that method of empl .
A small ) an lLlch ) to the beam .
The sides of tho bridge aoe inch above the *This ] .
Tv rellectiuus b ) ed , ) dellction .
1878 .
] using th Balance with great arch which fits on to the beam , as shown in the end view ( fig. II , 2 ) .
In of sides are cut two -shaped notches directly opposite to each other , one of the opposite pairs being 6654 millims. ( about inch ) distant from the other pair .
Two equal riders of the shape shown in fig. II , 3 , placed across the bridge , and are of such a size that they will just fit the bottom of the notches .
When one of these rests across the bridge the othel is raised up from it .
The of one rider and the laising of the other corresponds hel.efore to a transference of a single rider from one pair of notches to the other .
The length of the half beam being millims. the distance between the notches millims. , this transference will be equivalent to the addition to one pair of of the weight of the rider used .
As I have generally used a centigramme rider this mealls mgms .
levers ( fig. II , 4 ) , with hooks are used to one rider while the other is lowered .
These are worked by two cams a rod , which is prolonged out of the balance case to the ) server .
By turning this rod round , the one lever is raised while the othel is depressed .
The hook at the end of the raised lever picks up its lider while the other hook deposits its rider on the bridge , and the1l sinks down between the raised sides ( as shown in fig. II , 4 ) , leaving the rider resting freely on the bridge .
levers are so adjusted that the beam even in its greatest oscilla lions never comes contact with the hooks .
This arrangement might probably be still further perfected by introducing two small framcs for the riders to rest upon , the frames resting on the by knife edges .
It would then be certain that the movement of the riders was equivalent to a transference from one knife edgc to other , whereas the rider at present may not rest exactly .
the contre of the notch .
But I find that I get fairly results by lowering the ider somewhat suddenly so as to give it suHicient impetus to go to the bottom of the notch , and have not therefore thought it necessary as yet to introduce more complicated apparatus .
In place of the right hand pan of the usual shape , another of the shape shown in .
II1 , 1 , is employed .
To the centre of the pan underneath is attached a vertical brass rod which passes downwards the bottom of the inner case of the balance .
To the under side of this case is attached the clamping arrangement before refel.red to .
sists of two sliding pieces horizontally in a slot cut in a thick brass plate which is fastenud to the case .
Through a circular aperture in this plate ( the slot is llot cut through the whole thickness of the plate , but only as shown in and about the middle of the slot hangs the rod aChCd to the scale pan .
By mcans of right and left handed screw on a rod is proMr .
J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 .
longed out of the case to the observer , these sliding pieces can be made to approach , and olamp the rod , or to recedc and free it .
By having the opposite surfaces of the .
pieces and the rod polished and clean , it is possible to clamp and unclamp without producing any disturbance .
The clamp is of great use also to lessen the vibrations when they are too , as it may bc into action any moment , and on releasing carefully the beam will start from rest without any impetus .
It may be used to increase the vibrations by suddenly when the beam will have a slight impetus in one direction or the other .
The which I have compared are two brass pounds avoirdupois , made for me by Mr. and rked A and respectively .
They are of the usual cylindrical with a knob at the top .
Two small brass pans with a wire arch by which they can be suspended , are used to them ; these are called respectively X and .
I found on ' to use them that there was great a difference between A and B. I therefore sted them by putting a very small piece of wax upon , the ]ighter .
But the difference between them increased by ) l. in two days , which I thought was probably due to the wax .
After the fourth series I therefore removed it and scraped till it was more nearly equal to A. The weighings have , however , been retained , for the differences on different days vary they aro fairly constant on the same day .
The weights are by the ' apparatus which been to effect the as simply quickly as ible .
A horizontal " " sidc rod\ldquo ; or link is worked by two cranks , which are atlached to the axles of equal toothed wheels with a piniou ( 1 ) ) them .
A second pinion ( q ) , on a rod prolonged out of the to the observer , ears with one of the wheels .
By .
this rod the toothed wheels are set in motion , both in the sanlc direction , moving the horizontal " " side rod " " from the ) and over to the .
A pin stops its motion furthe than is shovvn , 1 .
each etld of the rod is cut a notch , and across these hung the the is fastened to the floor of the case between the ] ) supporting the beam and the scale pan , the side rod })( } to the direction of beam , and exactly over ffie Gtltre of the fig. , 1 , one of eights B is supposed to be tho pnn ( the wires suspe1lding the pan from tho not beil ) , side rod having moved down so far below wirc of } ) weight that it leaves it quite free .
If , 110W , it is dc.sired to the the rod is rned , the wLocl , s in motion , the side rod moves up , picks up B\mdash ; the notch the wire\mdash ; then travels 1878 .
] using the Balance with over round to the extreme right , when A will be over and nearly touching the scale pan .
By continuing the motion sljcorhtly A will be gently deposited on the pan , and the side rod will move htly down leaving the weight quite free .
On the scale are four pins , turned slightly outwards , as guides for the small pan , and ensuring that it shall always come into the same position .
The wheels and pinions are of such a size that two revolutions of the rod jnst suffice to ange one weight for the other .
It will be seen that all the manipulation required from the observer during , series of hings is the simple of three rods , nich prolonged out of the balance case to where he is tioned at the tclescope .
By turning one of these he can the position of the rider on the beam by a known amount , and so find the value of his scale .
By ' a second he clamps the scale pan , and so steadies the balance while the weights are by turning a third rod .
I lave made this arrangement not only because it seems as simple as possible to secure the end required , but also it seemed more applicable to a vacuum balance ( with which I hope ultimately to AbeSt it ) .
I take this opportunity of expressing my thanks to Foster , mechanician of College , for his aid in the construction of the apparatus , and in the Plannino of many of its details .
Iethod of Serics of Weighi } After the countcrpoise lIas been djusted so that the beam nearly about its horizontal , the frame is so that the balance is ready for use .
The pan is then clamped and the balance is left to come to a nearly permanent state of flexure if possible , sometimes for the night or .
The lamp is Iighted usually halfan-hour or more before beginning to observe , so that its effect on balance attain a more or less steady state .
It is necessary also to wait some time after coming into the room , for of tho door will always cause a considerable and immediate deflection of the beam .
When a sufficient time has elapsed , the observations are commenced with a of the value of one scale division ) means of the riders .
The three extremities of two successive oscillations are observed with one of the riders resting on the beam .
These are then combined as follows:\mdash ; The mean of the first and third is taken , and the mean again of this and the second , this " " resting point that is , the position of equilibrium of the beam at the middle of the time .
For instan( , in hing No. I ( see blos at the end ) the three extremities of successive oscilh)fions were ) and ( column 2 The resting point was taken Mr. J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 , the rider on the beam being the hand one denoted by column 1 .
The balance is the clamped , and the other rider is crht on to the beam while the first is taken up .
The point is again obsel'ved .
In No. I it was .
The balance is clamped , and the first rider again brought on the beam , and in unclamping the resting point again observed .
In the same weighing it was These three are sufficient to give one ation of the deflection due to the transference of a rider .
will be difference between the second resting point and the mean of the first and third .
instance , divisions .
This number is found in the column .
This proccss is continued , the resting points combined in threes till several values of the ction due to the rider have been obtained , and the mean of these is taken as the truc value .
This plan of combinin the resting points requires that observations should be taken at nearly equal intervals .
After a littlc practice it will always take the observer about the same time to go through the same operations of clamping , the riders , unclamp n. again to lessen the vibrations about the ncw resting point , and then inning to , and I have considered that this a sufliciently correct method of timing the obscrvations .
When a series has been taken it at 0T1CC bc seen whether they were begun too soon after entering the rooln , or whether any irregular disturbing force has acted .
For instance , No. II , nation of one division , irst resting oint is so much lower than the with the same cvidenly the balance was still affected by my entrance into the rooln .
It was , therefore , rejected .
gain , in rhing No. III ation of the difference between the weights , the fourth resting point was lower the others with the same weight in the pan .
The ) , when the other wcight was in the pan , showed no similar buddcll drop of such .
This observation was , therefore , rejected as affected by bome irregular disturbance .
When the value of the ] is , the value of one scale at once found ] ) ) ) nlgttl .
by the number of divisions of the deflection , since of the sides is cquivalent to the addition of 3282 mgm .
to one ) ) The determination of the vcights is then begun .
rried on a lncr , the only cLifference being , that the rod ch is turned ound in place of the rod the ) usually taken a greater number of observations of difference cen the weights than of the deflection due to the ridel .
S , as the fol'mel .
is more than the lattcr .
This I believe to arise using the Balance with from slight differences of temperaturs of the two , and perhaps from air cllrrcnts caused by their motion inside the case .
They do seem to be due to any ] in the clamping arrangeme ) , since that is employed equally in both , and the changing of the weights , if cffected gently , does not move the beam at all .
When the deflection has been determined , it is multiplied by the number of milligrammcs corrcsponding to one scale divisioT ] , and this , of course , gives the dilference betwceu the .
I have interthe weights in two pans X and , between serics of eighings , order to the experimcllts like those conducted in the for the standard ) ound .
But my object has not been to show at all the method gives consistent results day day , and , in , the difference between the weights has varied .
H'or instance , ccording to weighings and II , , while , according to III and .
Therc is grcater difference between these than can be accounted for by errors of experiment , and it probably arose from the small piece of wax with hich I made A nearly equal to B. The difference between the eights when mcasured to such a of accuracy as which I have pted , , no doubt , from time to time , rtly with deposifs of with in the moiSbUrG in the atmoso on .
Bnt hc numbers which arc given in the tnbles sufficient to that the diffcrence between weights in any one scrics of bo sured with a grcater of accurncy has crto b possible .
I give in the tbles a full ccount of th , each scries colltainin3 a tion of valuc of oue and a determination of the cnce ccn the eatcst deviation of ftny one of a serics the mcan of scrics of differences is given .
This I consider a better test of accuracy of hing t the probnbJe is wanted in weighing is rather a method which will ve at ollce a good determination of the between two .
But I may state , at if error any one of scries be as its diffcrcncc from the mean of thnt series , error of a determination of the rence betwccn the in first four is of a division , or is , of the total the error is divisIons , or 0224 mgm .
, that is of .
It bc remarked that these made ) irly when there were hcaV ) suddcn of thns the of the bnlance .
In serics \mdash ; VIII the tcst error is only oo-0 of the total weight , the woathcr improv cd collbidcrably . .
J. H. Poyntin on a method of [ Nov. 21 , On the of the to the Alcan of the arth .
In the Cavendish experiment , the attraction of a large sphere of lead of known mass and dimensions upon another smaller sphere also of known mass and dimensions , is measured when the two are an observed distance apart .
Comp n. this attraction the weight of the small sphere\mdash ; that is the attraction of the earth upon it\mdash ; and knowing the dimensions of the earth , we can the mass of the earth in terms of the mass of the large lcad sphere , and so obtain its mean density .
The torsion balance , which was invented for the pose by Mitchell , the contriver of the experiment , has hitherto been used to determine the force exerted by the mass upon the small sphere .
In the rrangement here described , I have replaced torsion balance by the ordinary and have so been able to compare the attraction of a sphere with that of the earth upon the same mass somewhat more directly .
The results which I have obtained have no value in themsves , but they serve as an example of the employment of the ance for more delicate work than any which it has as yet been supposed able to perforn ] .
The method is shortly :\mdash ; A lead weight ( called " " the weighing grms. ( nearly llb .
) down by a fine wire from one arm of a balance , from which pan has been removed at a distance of about six feef below it , and is accurately counterpoised in the other pan , suspended from the other arm .
A large lead mass called mass grms. is then introduced directly under the hanging .
The attraction of this mass increases the weight slightly and the beam is deflected through an angle which is observed .
The value of this deflection in milligrammes is measured by the employment of ridcrs the manner described , and so attraction of the mass is known .
The increase of the weighr caused by the mass has been in my experiments about of a ramme , or of the The balance I have used is ich I have described above .
It was placed in the same room and in the same position as in the weighing experlments .
The same mcfhod WitS used to observe the oscillations with siuge mirror on the benm .
} scftle was a simplo one etched on glass and not fonally r. It had about 50 divisions to inch , and the from abo downwards , so that an increase in the from the left was indicated by a lower number on the The is suspended by a very ) rass vire from the left arm , a hole in the bottom of case , han in a double tin tube , 4 inches in diameter , to ) otect it from currents .
At tloe botttom of the tube is a which can 1878 .
] the Balance with great be seen the bottom of weight as it hnngs .
The weight is centims. in diameter and is gilded .
The mass is a sphere of an of lead and antimony .
It was cast with a " " head " " on then accul.ately turned .
Its vertical diameter is ccntims .
foot ) .
The specific gravity of a specimen of the metnl wns found to be .
Its given by a ohing mnchine is 340 lbs. about , and this agrees very nearJy with the lculated from specilic ravity .
I am ed to accept this as the visiollally , until it is found more corrcctly by the large referred to above and now constructed .
mass ( fig. I , M ) is placed in a wood cup at one end of a -inch plank , 8 inches vide and 6 feet 11 inches , mounted on four nged brass wheels , and .
as a for it .
about 12 feet nailed to the floor in a dircction ) ndicuJnr fo the beam of the balance , as shown in , { as a for the and a firm stop at each end prevents ) running off the rail .
The distance betwccn the stops is rather less th twicc the length of the calriage , and the down from the balance ctly midv veen the stops .
The mass is placed on the so that it is exactly under the when is at one end of its excursion against one of the stops .
An empty cup of the same dimensions as that in which tloe mass , is at the other end of the is just under the when the is inst the ther stop .
By this cment 1 correction is eeded for the ction of the upon the or lnterpoise , the effcct used by the removal of the from one end of excursion to the other is entirely duc to the cncc of ctions of the mass upon the and counterpoise in its positions .
The position of the mass when directly nndcr the wcight is called its " " in position that when it is nt the other end of its excursion is ] the " " out position The lcngth of the excursion is 5 feet inches .
To draw the carriage ftlong the il a vertical iron with a wood cylinder at lower cnd pivots on the floor , is np to the lcvel of the observer sits at the telescopc lvitl ) hnndlc ) which ) he can turn it , The two ends of a rope which winds roltnd the cylinder pass pulleys on the stops , and are nttached to ends of the .
The observer can then ve mass reat ease by turning handle , even while rough hc tclcscope .
When a of observntions is made , the genernl method is is .
The deflection ( r ) due to rnnsferencc of a ridcr to the on the beam is first observed exactly in ) cforc described , the mean of four or five vnlucs ) cing t the trne aluc .
Then the deflection due to differencc of ction of .
J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 , the mass in its two positions is fonnd in exactly the .
in the difference between two weights is found , except that now whem three successive extremities of oscillations have been observed for a resting point the mass is moved from one position to the other where the weights were changed in the former experiments , the clamp not being brought action .
The second extremity of the oscillation which is proceeding while the mass is moved , is observed as the first of the next three .
When nine or more esting points have been observed they are combined in threes , and the mean of the resulting values of the deflection is used in the subsequent calcuIation .
This deflection is , of course , less than that which would be observed were there no attraction on the counterpoise , and were the out position of the ma , ss at an infinite distance .
To find the factor by which the deflection due to the change of position of the mass must be multiplied in order to reduce it to the deflection which would be observed under these conditions , let AB be equal and parallel to the beam of the balance at the level of the cou1lterpoise of which is the centre .
Let be the centre of the hat of the mass in its in position , Fi that of the mass in its out position .
Draw BF , DF , parallel to , AB .
Let the mass .
The vertical attraction of the mass in its in position ] be \mdash ; BF .
The vertical attraction in its out position ] be\mdash ; diffcrence between these is actually observed , .
: 1878 .
] the Balance with great The factor by which we must multiply the observed difference to reduce it to the attraction of the on the weight in its in position is therefore\mdash ; since centimetres .
The values of and being observed , the distance between the centres of the and veight is then sured by centims. to the sum of their radii , the distance from the top of the mass to the bottom of the as mensured by a cathetometer .
It now remains to explain the calculation of the mean density from the observed values of , and .
We have\mdash ; in observed Attrn.ction of mass onweio.ht when " " in\ldquo ; Wei weight of But the increaso in mgms .
, since bewcen notchcs is millims. , the ) wcight of the rammes .
The attraction of the mass in eentimctres .
The attraction of the earth is where mean density of the earth , 's polar radius in centimetres , eJlipticity .
latitude .
The logarithm of the coefficient of when is in inches is ) AstronomicaI , or if is in it is Mr. J. H. Pointing a method of [ Nov. 21 , .
these values in equation A we obtain .
and .
The following table is au account ) eriment made on May 80th , , and will serve as a specimcn of the method of making the tions .
It is the best I have yet in the closeness with which all the valucs of with each other .
SO , 1878.\mdash ; Dctermination of 1878 .
] the L'alance with Determination of .
rYIIt .
Mr. J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 , At the close of the experiment was found to be centimetres .
AVe have therefore\mdash ; Iog C. 7 . .
7695197 . .
I have made in all 11 experiments with this method .
The of are\mdash ; 1 . . . . . . . .
lIay20 . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . .
, .
, .
, 29 . . . . . . . . .
, , 30 . . . . . . . .
9 . . . . . . . .
Jnnc 5 . . . . . . . .
The resulting mean value of the mcan density of the earth is If eleven determinations be supposed to have equal weight , the probable error of their value is The various determinations diifer very much among themselves , but they seem to me sufficiently close to justify the hope that with a large balance and a large weight , which will not bc so easily affected by air curl.ents , and with greater precautions to prevcnt those air currents , determination of the mean density of the earth may ultimately ained by this method .
the Balance with delicacy , I.\mdash ; June 12.\mdash ; Determination of Value of 1 Scale Division .
iifcrencestion d Mean divisions . . .
1 division milligrammc . .
J. Il .
a of Determination of . .
I itnlme .
catcst dtion f di sion .
rics of favourable , vcrs .
1878 .
] th Balance ?
with great II.\mdash ; June 13.\mdash ; Dctermination of 1 Scalo Division .
ccding.bOduo t . .
1 division milligramme .
wcather was as unfavourable the provious dny .
weights were commcllccIllcnt of this serics and the balance then worked so for .
J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 , time I was unable to begin the ridcr determination .
Even then the first resting point had to be rejected .
Determination of .
RCSfing 317.85 301.27 311.4 lIcan ( ions . . .
Grcatest devi .
from mean division ramme .
1878 .
] the zrith , \amp ; c. III.\mdash ; June 13.\mdash ; Determination of 1 Scale Divisiou .
Mean occeed .
Mean divisions . .
1 division Mr. J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 , Determination of .
Besting .
This iuuse , ejected Mean di l. reatest deviation lrom mean division ramme .
378 .
] coith great delic -June tion of 1 Valuc of Scale Division .
Mcan division .
1 division interrapted , I onld not scries of deberlninations Mr. J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 , Determination of .
Mean OC ions .
amme .
Greatest deviation from division The previous .
determination of mgm .
difference too great , mgln .
be counted for by errors of experlment .
There must ve been somc1 deposit on one of the weights , either of dust or moisture .
I thereforo took them out , cleaned and usted them by till nearly equal to , and removlng the wax from A. 1878 .
] the Balance with great .\mdash ; June mination of of 1 Scale Division . . .
mean divisions . .
1 division Mr. J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 , Determination of .
Mean division amme .
Greatest deviation from mean A and had here been cleaned and readjusted by scraino. .
small vessel containing calcium chloride put side the balance to dry the air .
This improved the of the clamp , diminishing the esion .
1878 .
] the sviih great delicacy , \mdash ; Julle Determination of Value of 1 Scale Division .
Mcan divisions . .
1 Mr. J. H. Pointing a method of [ Nov. 21 , Determinafion of . .
di visions milligramme .
Grontcst deviation from meaIl division framme .
1878 .
] nsing the Balcmce with great VII.\mdash ; Jume 18.\mdash ; Determination of 1 Scale Divisiou .
Mean o Mean .
1 scalc division Mr. J. H. Pointing on a method of [ Nov. 21 , Determination of .
Mcan Grcatest devi , ( tion the fllt ] division rliffcrcncc betwccn ) nd in scrics is to of new to be fixed up jusl bolo ) cx } ) for some tiulc .
( :ollclus]on of the .
I .
deal of dust on 1878 .
] ' the with delicacy , VIII .
Junc 1tion of 1 Divisio lIean divisions .
1 scale division AIr .
J. H. Pointing on a method , [ Nov. 21 , Determination of .
Greatest deviation from the division ) ) 1878 .
] On Repulsio llting f iation ries .
Mgms .
nlca iu 4043 1283 reatest error\mdash ; that is grcatest deviation of any one value from the of its series\mdash ; in the first four series is ) of a poulld .
The greatest in the four scries Nos. 5\mdash ; 8 is of a ound .
II .
" " On resulting from Radiation .
By CROOKLS , ( Abstract .
) In this vifh w the rescarch cIoses , the author first examincs the action of screcns fixed on the fly of an meter , iu modif i the movcments .
It is found that when a of thin c mica is attached 1 nlillim .
in front of sidc of the ancs of au ordinary radiometer , the fly moves tively , the black sidc stead of from .
} a mica disk ' is fixed 011 side of the of a radionetcr , the result is an almost total loss of ) sitivelless .
In order to mine the action of ens still furthcr an lnent is the scrcens ) ependent o the one the , so the and come close to or 10 of disks .
By gentle ) the ecllS C bo of the black surfacos .
A ndlo is llow ht , sl aded tl1at the has to pass of the the black surface .
sidc a .
If ndle is alIowed shino ) sido of disk .
no immediato movcmcllt ) ) ve in tlIu 111 the over thnt of

