Tab 16 Trans No 100 8 7 9 12 5 13 14 1 10 11 15 234 26 B 27 H 25 A ACI 24 22 23 D 10 17 18 21 K C 19 20 DG G FF EE 28 30 35 29 32 33 36 37 A Description of certain Stones figured like Plants , and by some Observing men esteemed to be Plants petrisied : Communicated to the Publisher , by the same Mr. Lister , from York November .
4th .
1673 .
SIR , IN this paper I send you an Account of some of the Parts of certain Stone figured like Plants ; which Argicola ( 5~ Fossilium)calls Trochitae , and the compound ones Entrochi ; we in English , St. Cutberds beads .
Agricola will have them akin for substance to the Lapides Judaici ; and , indeed , these are of an opaque and dark coloured Sparr ; though I have of them from some parts of England of a white Sparr or Cawke , as our Miners call it : They all break like Flint , polished and shining .
Put into Vinegar ( saith he ) they buble : Atque etiam repeC cccccc2 ritur ritur interdum qui se tanquam Astroites moveat de loco .
But this is true of all Fossils of what figure so ever , that Vinegar will corrode and dissolve as a Menstruum ; provided they be broken into indifferent small grains , and the bottom of the Vessel hinder not , they will be moved from place to place by it .
The figure of the Trochitae is cylindrical , the outmost round or Circle ( we speak of one single joint , which Agricola calls Trochites ) is in general smooth , both the flat-sides are thick drawn with fine and small rays , from a certain hole in the middle to the circumference .
From the shooting of these rays like Antimony , and because a large Peice of this Stone of many joints resembles the bole of a Tree , Aldrovandus ( who yet elsewhere discourses of this Stone , after Agricola and Gesner , under the name of Trochitae and Entrochi ) not improperly terms it ( Musaei Metallici lib. 1 .
page .
188 .
) Stelechites stibiifacie ; and there gives us a true figure of it .
Two , three , or more of these Trochitae joined together , make up that other Stone , which he calls Entrochos .
The Trochitae or single joints are so set together , that the Rays of the one enter into the others Furrows , as in the Sutures of the skull .
Hitherto we agree to what Agricola , Gesner , Boetius , Aldrovandus and Wormius have said of them : We proceed upon our own Observations , which go much further .
The Places where we find them very plentifully , are certain Scars in Braughton and Stock , little Villages in Craven .
The Stones of the abovesaid described Figure , as many as have yet come to my hands from those places , have afforded us these Particulars .
As to their bigness , I never yet met with any much above two inches about ; others there are as small as the smallest pinn , and of all magnitudes betwixt those proportions .
They are all broken bodies ; some shorter Pieces , some longer , and some of them , indeed , Trochitae , that is , but single joints .
I never found one entire piece much above two inches long , and that very rarely too ; in some of which long pieces , I have reckned about 30 joints .
And as they are all broken bodies , so are they sound dejected and lying consusedly in the Rock , which in some places , where they are to be had , is as hard as Marble , in other places soft and shelly ( as they call it , ) that is , rotten and perished with the wet and air .
And though in some places they are but sprinkled here and there in the Rock , yet there are whole bedds of Rock of vast extent , which are made up for the most part of these , and other figured Stones , as Bivalve , Serpentine , Turbinate , &amp;c. as at Braughton .
As to the injuries they have received in their removal from the natural posture , if not place of their growth and formation , they are manifest .
For , besides their being all broken bodies , we find many of them depressed and crushed , as if the joint of a hollow Cave should be trod under foot : These Crushes being also real Cracks as of a stone or glass .
Again these stones consisting of many vertebrae or joints , they are many of them strangely dislocated ; sometimes two , three , or more of the joints in a Piece are slipped and out of order or rank , and sometimes a whole series of joints , as when a pack of Crown pieces leans obliquely upon a Table .
Further , others I have that are twisted like a Cord , if this possibly may be reckoned amongst the injuries .
Lastly , some have their joints , indeed , even and in file , but are yet stuffed with a foreign matter , as when bricks are laid in mortar .
There is great variety as to the thickness of the Trochitae or single joints : some are so thin , that they are scarce the full of the 24th .
part of an inch ; others are a full quarter of an inch thick ; of these latter I only found at Stock : These , I say , are the extreme proportions , as far as my Observations have yet gone ; there are joints of all measures betwixt those two Extremes .
This is true in divers Pieces , for mostly the joints are of an equal thickness in one and the same Piece .
Note , that there are slender and small Entrochi or Pieces , which have as thick joints , as the biggest and fairest Pieces .
There is also some difference in the seames or closing of the joints : Some are but seemingly jointed ; which appears by this , that if they be eaten down a while in distilled vinegar , the seeming Suturs will vanish , as in some I had out of Stafford .
shire , from about Beresford upon the Dove : Others and all here at Braughton and Stock are really jointed , and the Sutures indented ; which indentures being from the terminating of the rays , they are more fair or large , according to the difference of the rays , but even , equal , and regular .
We have said , that generally the outmost Circle of each joint is flat and smooth ; yet are there many other differences to be noted as to that Part : Very probably because they are Parts or Pieces of different Species of rock-Plants .
1 .
That the smooth-joynted ( to say no more of them here ) are of different thicknesses as to the joints .
2 .
On some Entrochi betwixt Suture and Suture in the middle of each joint , are certain Knots in a Circle ; the joints thus distinguished are very deep and large , and are very frequent at Stock .
3 .
There are likewise of these with a circle of knots , which have many knots besides upon each joint and look rugged .
4 .
Some with much thinner joints , which yet have a Circle of knots in the middle of each joint ; and this also looks as though it was all over knotted , and these are found at Braughton only , as far as I know .
5 .
As some have but one Circle of knots , others are knotted all over the joint and rough ; so are there some other , which have a Circle of larger knots in the middle of each joint , and a circle of lesser on each side close adjoining to the border or verge of the Suture .
This is huge pretty , and they are found at Stock .
6 .
Others betwixt Suture and Suture in the middle of each joint rise with a circular edge .
7 .
A smooth Entrochos with a large or much risen edg on the middle of one of the joints , and a much smaller on the middle of an other joint and that alternatively .
8 .
The same alternate difference , the joints only much rounder and blunt , and here the joints are visibly one thicker than the other .
9 .
The same with alternate edges knotted .
10 .
A double edg in the middle of every joint ; this makes the joints look as though they were exceeding thin and numerous , but indeed they are not so .
11 .
A double edg in the middle of every joint knotted by intervals , or as it were serrate edges .
And these are some of the differences , that I have at present been able to make out .
Some of the Pieces of most , if not all , of the differences of these Entrochi are ramous , having ving lesser branches deduced from the greater , and that without order .
Some have but few branches on a Piece ; others I find so thick of branches , that they resemble a ragged Staff .
These Branches are deep inserted within the stemm , and by being separated , leave great holes in the sides of it .
The rays in the joints of the branches run cross to the rays of the stemm .
On thick stemms are sometimes very small branches , but mostly the bigger the stemm , the thicker the branches .
Some of these branches are branched again : Yet I find not any of them above one inch entire , and yet adhering and inserted into its stock or bole , and for the most part not above a joint or two .
The Branches are known from the stemm , by being a little crooked and something tapering or Conic .
We meet with but few Pieces ( besides the branches ) that are not exactly Cylindrical , setting a side the injuries above mentioned , that is , that are not as thick at one end as at the other , and perfectly round , not withstanding that we said , that there are of them of all degrees of magnitude within the proportions above-named .
And , as we said , it is rare to meet with a Piece , that is not exactly cylindrical ; so amongst those few that are not so , some we find tapering at both Ends , and much swelled in the middle .
And this is the other Species of this Stone , according to the division of Agricola : Entrochi duae sunt Species ; aut enim aequaliter teres est ; aut teres quidem , sed pars ejus media tumet , utrumque caput angustius est .
But this must not be understood , as though both ends were complete ; for , these are but broken Pieces , as the rest , more swelled in the middle .
Others there are figured like a kind of Fruit , or Lapis Judaicus ; but these also are truly Entrochi , and are jointed notwithstanding this shape .
Upon a small Stalk of two or three joints is suddenly raised an Oval bottom , broken off also at both ends .
To these we shall add what seems to have been summitates or fastigia ; long and slender Pieces with a little jointed button , hollow on the very top ; which top seems not to have been divided or broken off frow any thing else .
I must not forget , that as they are hollow in the middle ( and so it was easy to string them like beads , which gave occasion to the English name ; ) so these hollows are sometimes filled with earth , and sometimes an other Entrochos is enclosed like a pair of screws , and which is ( as it were ) pith to the other .
Of these inward Entrochi Some I have which are transparent .
Note , that the hollows or piths are of different bores , but most are round .
And yet there are of them in great plenty at Stock whose hollow in the middle is in the elegant fashion of a Cinquefoil ; and the rays of the joints of these Entrochi are much deeper and fewer in number , than of any other yet observed by me .
These also are smooth-joynted .
This is most surprising , and I know not any Vegetable , whose Pith is perforate in such a manner .
Lastly we in these Rocks find certain rude Stones , of the bigness of Walnuts , which have many impressions of Trochitae upon them , as though they had been the roots of them .
And when these have been a little cleansed in Vinegar , these impressions appear more than casual ; for , the substance that covers them ( if not the Stones themselves ) is Sparr , and the impressions are round holes with rays , like those holes , which we said above the Branches made in the sides of the stock , when broken out from them .
Agricola makes mention of these also : Saepenumero lapis informis reperitur un a cum Trochite &amp; Entrocho , Rotae in se continens figuram ; quae in eo quasi quaedam radix , Trochitis jam abruptis , remansit .
Although there are indeed certain lapides informs , which may with some colour be thought to have been the Roots , from whence some Entrochi have been broken ; yet are not all such lumps of Stone , on which we discern the Vestigia of Entrochi to be called lapides informs , some of them being most elegantly figured .
One or two of them , which I found entire and complete at Stock , amongst very many others strangely shattered and defaced , I shall describe to you .
1 .
The first is in the fashion of a Pine Apple or Cone , with a hollow bottom , about the half of an inch deep , and as much over at the bottom : On the very Top is the round figure of an Entrochos broken off ; round about the bottom or basis are five single feet at equal distances , in the figure of Crescents .
This Stone is incrustate or made up of angular Places ; viz. the bottom is composed of five plates , which we call Feet ; the middle dle of the Stone of five other plates , all of a Sexangular figure ; and the Top Stone .
All other plates are smooth on the outside .
2 .
The second is a large Stone of the bigness of a Walnut , much after the pyramidal fashion of the other ; the bottom convex , about one inch and a quarter over ; on the top is the lively impression of an Entrochos broken off , or rather a Trochites yet remaining ; round the Basis are five double points or Feet at equal distances , all broken off and somewhat in the figure of Crescents .
This Stone also is incrustate or covered with Sex-angular plates , which are rough .
I can compare the incrustating of these stones to nothing so well , as to the skins of the Piscis Triangularis , which Margravius describes : Cujus Cutis ( nam caret squamis ) figuris Trigonis , tetragonis , pentagonis , hexagonisqae mire distinguitur &amp; notatur .
Of these figured plates I find so great variety in the Rocks , both as to the number of Angles and other beautiful Ornaments , that it has caused in me great admiration .
And it will not be amiss , since they manifestly belong , as parts , to the above described stones , to enumerate them , at least , as many as have yet come to my hands .
Some of these angular plates , I said , are yet visible in their natural place and posture in the described stones : But I find the greatest part of them broken up and heaped together in great confusion in the Rocks .
And it will be as hard to set them together , as to skill to tell you , what the figure of an entire Entrochos ( or the stone to which all the above described parts seem to belong ) is : But we will omit no part , that we can justly say belongs unto it .
We shall begin with Pentagonous plates .
1 .
The first is a Pentagonous Stone , as broad as my thumbnail ( we speak of the fairest of them , ) hollow on the one side , like a Dish ; convex on the other side , where are certain eminent knots , about the bigness of small pinn-heads , set in a kind of square order : This plate is somewhat thin at the edges and yet blunt .
2 .
The second is also Pentagonous , and not much narrower than the other : It is , indeed , somewhat convex above , but not hollow underneath ; it is smooth on both sides , at least without those eminent knots , which are so remarkable in the other Ddddddd plate : plate : The edges of these are as thin as of a knife , and sharp .
3 .
The third PentagonousP ate is not near so broad , as either of the former ; yet one I found amongst a 100 of this sort , that is full as large as any of the above described : These are all convex on the one side and somewhat hollow on the other ; thick edged ; one of the 5 sides only is indented ; the indented side is ever the thinnest , and the stone is most sloped towards that side , Note , that there are many amongst these last indented sorts of plates , which are channelled on the concave side and other wise notched .
4 .
All these Pentagonous plates are to be found plentifully at Braughton or Stock .
But I shall not omit in this place the mentioning of one , I by chance espied amongst certain figured Stons , which I had out of the Quarry near Wansford-bridg in Northamptonshire , and it probably belongs to these kind of plates I am now in hand with .
It has one of the five sides thick indented ; the convex part has in the middle a raised Umbo , like some ancient shields , and round about the sides a list of smaller Studds .
We have since had some plates muck like this from Bugthorp under the Woolds in Yorkshire .
We proceed to remark some differences in the sex-angular plates .
5 .
All these stones are but small , save here and there one : The first of them is but little hollow on the one side , and convex on the other ; having the convex-side most elegantly wrought with raised or embossed work , that is , with an equilateral triangle bestriding each Corner , and a single right line in the midst ; or , if you will , two Triangles one within another .
These we found at Braughton-sear only .
6 .
That Plate-stone which is most common in these Rocks , there being a 1000 of these to be found for one of the other , is sexangular , a little hollow on the one side and convex on the other : They are for the most part smooth on the convex side or seabrous only ; some are much thicker than others ; some being as thick as broad , but most are Plate-like ; the sides are very unequal , as in Crystals ; sometimes five broader sides and one very small ; again two sides broad and four much narrower , and infinite other differences as to the inequality of sides .
Words are but the arbitrary symboles of things , and perhaps haps I have not used them to the best advantage .
Good Design ( and such is that I send you , done by that ingenious young Gentleman and excellent Artist , my very good friend , Mr. William Lodge , ) or the things themselves , which I have all by me , would make these particulars much more intelligible and plain to you .
The Explication of the Figures .
See Tab. I. 1 .
A Trochites or single joint with very fine and small Rays .
2 .
A Trochites or single joint with the pith bored through , in the fashion of cinquefoil .
3 .
A Trochites or single joint , of an Oval figure , the rays scarce apparent and a very small point in the place of the Pith .
4 .
A single joint of two of a middle size , with the pith exceeding large .
5 .
A pack of single joints dislocated , and yet adhering in their natural order .
6 .
A very long Entrochos or a piece of many smooth joints with the branches broken off .
7 .
An Entrochos with smooth joints not branched .
8 .
The biggest Entrochos I have yet seen , with stumps of branches .
9 .
A smooth Entrochos with very thin and numerous joints .
10 .
The largest or deepest jointed Entrochos , save the oval one noted in the third figure .
11 .
An Entrochos with very many disorderly knots in each joint .
12 .
An Entrochos with only one single Circle of knots in the middle of each joint .
13 .
An Entrochos with three Circles of knots .
14 .
A smooth Entrochos , with a large and much risen edge in the middle of each joint .
15 .
Alternate joints round or blunt .
16 .
A double edg in the middle of each joint .
17 .
Alternate joints , edged .
18 .
19 .
20 .
Certain other differences noted in the Paper , but not perfectly expressed in the Design .
21 .
An Entrochos with a branch of a good length .
22 .
A branch of an Entrochos knocked off .
23 .
An Entrochos fruit-like .
24 .
A fastigium or Summitas .
25 .
A radix of an Entrochos in Prospective : where A is a joint or Trochites yet remaining , whence an Entrochos was broken off .
C. E. F. D. are four of the double feet ; the 5th .
being hid .
26 .
The same radix to be seen at the best advantage : A the Trochites or basis : C.B.D.E.F. the five double Feet .
Note also the sex-angular rough plates , which incrustate the stone or cover it all over .
27 .
A smaller Radix with smooth plates and five single Feet : H. the top stone .
I. one of the five Feet .
K. one of the five angular plates which incrustate the middle of the stone .
G. the basts , Also the same stone in prospective .
G.the same with the hollow bottom upwards .
Figures of Plates supposed to incrustate divers roots .
28 .
A pentagonous plate knotted .
29 .
A thin edged smooth pentagonous plate .
30 .
An indented pentagonous plate .
31 .
The Northamptonshire pentagonous plate .
32 .
A large pentagonous smooth plate .
33 .
An hexagonous plate imbossed with angles .
34 .
An hexagonous plate , as deep as broad .
35 .
37 .
Odd figured plates .
36 .
A quadrangular plate ribbed and indented .
So far this Letter ; which was soon after followed by another , containing the Learned Mr. Ray 's annotations upon the same , which were these : I received ( faith Mr. Ray ) your accurate Observations about St. Cutberds beads .
A strange thing it seems to me , that the broken pieces of those bodies , which you find , I mean , of the main stems , should be of equal bigness from the top to the bottom , and not at all tapering , if they be indeed the bodies of Rock-plants .
There are found in Maltha certain stones , called St. Pauls Batoons , which I suppose were originally a sort of Rock-plants , like small snagged sticks , but without any joints ; the trunks whereof diminish according to the proportion of other plants after the putting forth of their branches .
Those Roots , that you have observed , are a good argument , that these Stones were originally pieces of Vegetables .
Wonderful it is , that they should be all broken , and not one plant found remaining entire : And no less wonderful , that there should not at this day be found the like vegetables growing upon the Sub-marine rocks ; unless we will suppose them to grow at great depths under water .
And who knows but there may be such bodies growing on the rocks at this day , and that the Fishers for Coral may find of them ; tho being of no use they neglect and cast them away .
Certain it is , there is a sort of Coral jointed .

