454 Influence of High Pressures on the Circulation .
[ May 22 , the same size as those used in Experiments 10 and 12 , was injected under the skin of the back with 4 minims of fresh serum of one of the specimens of Tropidonotus used in those experiments .
No effects whatever were produced , though the animal was closely watched for a time and kept under observation until the next day .
Experiments 12 and 13 were subsequently confirmed .
Remarks on Experiments 8 , 10 , and 11 .
The parotid extract of the Aglyphous snakes used was a viscid mucus , quite different from the thin opalescent fluid obtained from the Opisthoglyphous snakes .
Its chemical nature would also seem to be different , the effects being much less like those produced by minimum doses of Cobra venom .
The violent general convulsions that followed the administration of Zamenis extract seem to point to some direct effect upon the nervous system , and are in marked contrast with the dyspnoeic convulsions that characterise poisoning by the Opisthoglyphous snakes used in the first series of experiments .
" The Influence of High Pressures of Oxygen on the Circulation of the Blood .
" By Leonard Hill , M.B. , F.RS .
, and J. J. R. Macleod , M.B. , Mackinnon Research Scholar of the Royal Society .
Received May 22 , \#151 ; Read June 12 , 1902 .
In a former communication* one of us recorded the effect of a pressure of two to three atmospheres on the circulation .
We have since carried on the observations at much higher pressures and by a different method .
A tubular steel pressure chamber was constructed .
The ends of the tube were closed by thick glass discs .
A curarised frog was placed inside , and the web of one foot stretched on a wire ring just behind one of the glass discs .
The pressure chamber was placed in front of an arc light , and the web illuminated so that the capillary circulation could be observed through a microscope ( 1-inch objective ) .
The pressure was rapidly raised to 70 atmospheres by connecting the chamber with an oxygen cylinder .
The capillary circulation continued .
No alteration could be detected during the rise of pressure .
After 15-20 minutes the oxygen tap was closed and the pressure chamber rapidly decompressed .
For the first half-minute there occurred no change in the circulation .
Then * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1900 .
1902 .
] Influence of Oxygen on the Respiratory Exchange .
455 there suddenly swept down the arteries gas bubbles , which drove the blood corpuscles before them and filled the capillaries .
On recompressing the frog to 70 atmospheres the gas within the vessels passed again into solution and the corpuscles appeared in the capillaries . .
' ' We have made similar observations on a bat ( obtained for us by the kindness of Mr. F. Jones ) .
' .
We observed the circulation in the wing .
The bat was hibernating .
The circulation was therefore slow , and the heart-beat infrequent .
On raising the pressure to 10 atmospheres the pulse became more frequent and the capillary circulation accelerated .
At 20 atmospheres of oxygen the circulation continued unimpaired .
On decompression after 10 minutes the circulation became impaired , but no gas bubbles appeared in the capillaries .
The animal had not , owing to the slow circulation , been under -pressure for a sufficient length of time to become saturated with gas .
n One of us ( L. Hill ) lias frequently noticed gas embolism to follow decompression of mice and birds .
The gas embolism is the cause of the convulsions which follow decompression .
Conclusion.\#151 ; A rapid increase of pressure to 70 atmospheres has no mechanical effect on the circulation of the blood .
This research has been carried out with the help of a grant from the Government Grant Fund of the Royal Society .
" The Influence of an Atmosphere of Oxygen on the Respiratory Exchange .
" By Leonard Hill , M.B. , F.R.S. .
and John J. R. Macleod , M.B. , Mackinnon Research Scholar of the Royal Society .
Received May 22 , \#151 ; Read June 12 , 1902 .
Regnault and Reiset* found that the uptake of oxygen was the same in 46 per cent , and in 77 per cent oxygen as in atmospheric air .
Paul Bertf on the other hand found that the processes of oxidation were most intense in 60 per cent , oxygen , while they became lessened in a pure atmosphere of oxygen .
Bert 's figures for a rat placed for 24 hours in a current of air and oxygen were as follows : Amount of Og in atmosphere , Oa inspired .
OOg expired .
21-0 per cent ... ... ... ... . .
12*6 7'06 48-3 " ... ... ... ... . .
13-72 10-32 88-2 " ... ... ... ... . .
H-35 6-96 * Regnault and Reiset , ' Annals de Chimie , ' 20 , 26 ( 1849 ) .
Translated in Annalen der Chemie u. Pliarm .
, ' vol. 73 , p. 92 , + Paul Bert , H La Pression Barometrique , " p. 832 ( Paris , 1872 ) , VOL. LXX .
\#166 ; A

