]\gt ; Mr. J. Hopkinson on the [ Jan. II .
Residual Charge of the Leyden Jar.\mdash ; II .
Dielectric Properties of various Glasses .
By J. , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. Sir WILLIAM F.R.S. Received November 30 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) I. The two following propositions are included under the law that the eflects of simultaneous electromotive forces are superposable .
( a ) If two jars be made of the same glass but of different thicknesses , if they be charged to the same potential for equal times , discharged for equal times , and then insulated , the residual charge will after equal times have the potential in each .
( b ) Residual charge is proportional to exciting charge .
These propositions are verified experimentally within the limits of errors of observation .
II .
Electric displacement through a dielectric may supposed to depend not only on the electromotive force at the instant , bnt also in part on the electromotive forces at all previous times .
If we assume that the effect of the electromotive force at any previous time decreases according to some hw as the time elapsed increases , and that these effects superposable , we may write where is the tromotive force at time , and is the surface integral of electric displacement divided by the instantaneous capacity of the jar .
If is determined for all values of , the properties of the glass as conduction and residual charge are completely expressed .
is equal to the reciprocal of the specific resistance of the material multiplied by and divided by the specific inductive capacity .
During insuIation is constant ; hence This is the fundamental equation of the following experiments .
Two methods of finding values of present themselves .
1st .
Let be constant for a time ; insulate for time ; ; if be small , , and the alue of ma.v } ) obser ] ed with or less accurncv 1877 .
] Residual Charge of the Leyden Jar .
2nd .
Let be constant for a very long time previous to time ; discharge and at time insulate and observe ; There are also methods of verification ; for example:\mdash ; Charge during time , reverse the charge for time and discharge ; then after time insulate and observe ; we shall find III .
Experiments tried on ten glasses .
The verifications were perhaps as close as could be expected , considering that no attempt made to observe at a constant temperature .
The lasses wero:\mdash ; No. 1 .
A soda-lime glass containing much soda .
No. 2 .
A so\amp ; -lime glass coloured deep blue with oxide of cobalt .
No. 3 .
Window-glass .
No. 4 .
Optical hard crown .
No. 5 .
Soft crown .
No. 6 .
A very light flint glass .
No. 7 .
Light flint .
No. 8 .
Dense flint .
No. 9 .
Extra-dense flint .
No. 10 .
Opal glass .
Glasses 1 , 2 , and 3 agree in possessing high conductivity and also large values of ; whilst 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 a high ( thousands of times as great as 1 , 2 , or 3 ) and small residual charge .
IV .
Electrolytic conduotion may occur through bhe -lime glasses at the ordinary temperature of the air .
Summary.\mdash ; The experiments appear to verify the fumdamental hypothesis , .
that the eifects on a dielectric of past and present electromotive forces are superposable .
Ohm 's lnw asserts the principle of superposition in bodies in which conduction is not complicated by residual charge .
Conduction and residual be treated as parts of the same phenomenon , an after effect as regards displacement , of eIectromotive force .
The experiments to thnt the principle of Ohm 's law is true of the whole phenomenon of conduction through glass .

