Answer to some Magnetical Inquiries , proposed Numb. 23 .
of these Transactions , Page .
423 , 424 .
The Queries were these .
1 .
Whether a Needle may be so touched upon any Magnet , as not to point to the true North and South ?
&amp;c. 2 .
Whether different Load-Stones , will give different directions ?
or , whether fainter or stronger touches , upon one and the same Magnet , will cause any Variation in the directions ?
&amp;c. To these the Industrious Mr. Sellers returns this Answer : To the First ; That he had often made trial with many Needles touching them in each Hemisphere of the Stone , with all variety of ways he could imagine , to find , if it were possible by that means to cause any of these Needles to vary in its direction but , that he always found the contrary ; all of them conforming to the Magnetical Meridian , and standing North and South , as other Needles , that were touched upon the very Pole of the Stone .
He adds , that some of these Experiments he tried in London , when there was no Variation known .
To the Second ; 1 .
That , upon frequent trials of touching Needles upon different Load-Stones , of several bignesses , as also of different virtue ; the several Needles , touched upon these different Stones , gave all of them the same directions .
This he thinks is confirmed by all the Needles and Sea-Compasses , made in several parts of the World , and consequently touched upon several Stones of several Countries , yet all agreeing in this Magnetical Harmony , that they all give the same directions .
2 .
That having sometimes drawn a Needle , only over the Pole of the Stone , within the Sphere of its virtue , without at all touching the Stone ; it hath received the same directive quality from the Stone , as if it had been really touched upon the Stone it self , though not altogether so strong , as if it had touched the Stone .
Again , that having touched Needles upon the Stone , with faint strokes , and other Needles with stronger ; all these Needles received the same effect from the Stone , both for strength and direction ; he conceiving , that it is not the fainter or stronger touches upon the Stone , nor the multiplicity of Strokes , that varies the Needles strength or direction ; but that the Nature of the Steel , whereof the Needle is made , and the Temper that is given thereunto , causes different effects , as to the strength it receives from the Stone ; himself as having tried all sorts of Steel , that he could possibly procure , and all the different Tempers he could imagine , for the most powerful receiving and retaining the virtue from the Load Stone ; wherein he affirms to have fully satisfied himself , so that he can infuse such virtue into a piece of Steel , that it shall take up a piece of Iron of two Ounces weight or more ; and give also to a Needle , the virtue of conforming to the Magnetical Meridian , without the help of a Load-Stone , or any thing else , that hath received virtue therefrom .
So far this Answerer ; whom as we cannot but much commend for his diligence in searching , and frankness of communicating ; so we give these particulars to the public , that further Trials may be made by others , for more discovery ; hoping withal , that the same Inquisitive person , that hath made these returns , will not scruple to add to them the ways , he uses for insusing that Magnetical virtue into Steel and Needles , without the help of a Load-Sone , spoken of in the end of this his Answer .

