XIX .
Remarks upon a Passage in Castillione 's Life of Sir ISAAC NEWTON .
By John Winthrop , LL. D. Hollisian Professor of Mathematics , at Cambridge , in New England .
THERE is a passage in CASTILLIONE'S life of Sir ISAAC NEWTON , prefixed to his edition of the OPUSCULA , in three volumes 4to .
published at Lausanne and Geneva in 1744 , which appears to me a palpable mistake ; and tends to place Sir ISAAC NEWTON in an inferior light to DES CARTES , in the eyes of foreigners .
It is this , p. xxxii : ` ` Saepius se reprehendebat [ NEUTONUS ] quod res mere geometricas algebraicis rationibus tractavisset , &amp; quod libro suo de Algebra Arithmeticae Universalis titulum posuisset , melius afserens CARTESIUM suum de re eadem volumen dixisse Geometriam , ut sic ostenderet has computationes subsidia tantum esse Geometris ad inveniendum .
' ' The authority he quotes for this is Dr. PEMBERTON , in the preface to his View of Sir ISAAC NEWTON'S Philosophy ; but I will venture to say , he has misinterpreted his Author .
He represents Dr. PEMBERTON as saying ; 1st , That Sir ISAAC NEWTON often cenVOL .
LXIV .
X sured Red , Jan. sured himself for handling geometrical subjects by algebraic calculations : 2dly , That another thing he often censured himself for , was , his having called his book of Algebra by the name of Universal Arithmetic : 3dly , That he commended DES CARTES , as having done better , in giving the title of Geometry to his treatise on the same subject .
The two last particulars , certainly , and I think the first also , have no foundation in the account Dr. PEMBERTON has given of this matter .
His words are : ` ` I have often heard him [ Sir ISAAC ] censure the handling geometrical subjects by algebraic calculations ; and his book of Algebra he called by the name of Universal Arithmetic , in opposition to the injudicious title of Geometry , which DES CARTES had given to the treatise , wherein he shows , how the geometer may assist his invention by such kind of computations.''Dr .
PEMBERTON'S expression does not at all imply , that Sir ISAAC NEWTON censured himself for handling geometrical subjects by algebraic calculations : the only idea it suggests , is , that he censured that way in general , and those who practised it , and that he had his eye particularly upon DES CARTES ; -and , far from intimating , that he had inconsiderately called his book of Algebra by the name of Universal Arithmetic , and afterwards censured himself for doing so , and wished that he had rather called it Geometry , as DES CARTES did his ; it directly affirms , on the contrary , that by express design and choice , he called it Arithmetic , in opposition to DES CARTES'S injudicious title of Geometry .
It is true , indeed , that in a following passage , Dr. PEMBERTON says , ` ` of their [ the antients ] taste and form of demonstration , Sir ISAAC always prosessed himself a great admirer : I have heard him even censure himself for not following them yet more closely than he did ; and speak with regret of his mistake , at the beginning of his mathematical studies , in applying himself to the works of DES CARTES , and other algebraic writers , before he had considered the elements of EUCLID with that attention , which so excellent a writer deserves .
' ' But the mode of expression here used , is so different from the foregoing , that there can be no doubt , but that it was intended to convey a different meaning .
And if , in the censure first mentioned , viz. ` ` for handling geometrical subjects by algebraic calculations , ' ' Dr. PEMBERTON had understood that Sir ISAAC meant to include himself , this last passage would have been a mere tautology .
But this last strongly implies , on the contrary , that Sir ISAAC had , in general , endeavoured to follow closely the ancient geometrical form of demonstration , in preference to that by algebraic calculation ; which is of modern invention .
There is a remarkable instance of the attention he paid to the distinction between these methods , and of the preference he gave to the former , in his great work of the Principia .
Having in Lemma XIX .
and its Corollaries , given a concise and elegant solution of a noted geometric Problem , he subjoins : ` ` Atque ita problematis veterum de quaX 2 ` ` tuor tuor lineis ab EUCLIDE incepti , &amp; ab APOLLONIO continuati , non calculus , sed compositio geometrica , qualem veteres quaerebant , in hoc corollario exhibetur .
' ' That the words , ` ` non calculus sed compositio geometrica , ' ' refer to DES CARTES'S prolix , algebraic solution of this Problem , in his Geometry , p. 25-34 , will , I believe , be readily granted by every one , that is acquainted with Sir ISAAC NEWTON'S writings .
Upon the whole , I humbly conceive , that Dr. PEMBERTON'S meaning , in the former passage , might have been better expressed in Latin , as follows : ` ` Saepius eos reprehendebat , qui res mere geometricas algebraicis rationibus tractavissent ; et libro suo de Algebra Arithmeticae Universalis titulum ponebat , asserens CARTESIUM suum de re eadem volumen inscite dixisse Geometriam , in quo ostendit , quomodo hae computationes subsidia esse possunt geometris ad inveniendum .
' ' Which of these translations does most justly express the sense of the original , may , I suppose , be safely left to the judgement of every person that understands both the languages .
I would only add , that this mistake of CASTILLIONE , must have been owing , either to inadvertence , or to his not being perfectly acquainted with the English language ; as he elsewhere appears to have had the highest veneration for Sir ISAAC NEWTON .
This mistake may , to some , appear trivial ; but , in my apprehension , every circumstance , relative to so illustrious a character as that of Sir ISAAC NEWTON , derives importance from it ; and ought to be marked with great exactness .
The foregoing remarks are , with all deference , submitted to the judgement of the ROYAL SOCIETY , by Their most obedient , humble Servant , Cambridge , New England , March 4 , 1773 .
JOHN WINTHROP .

