XV .
" On the Distribution of the Fibres in the Muscular Tunics of the Stomaoh in Man and other Mammalia .
" By JAMES BELL PETTIGREW , M.D. Communicated by GEORGE BUSK , Esq. Received June 20 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) The author of the present memoir has examined in succession the stomach of the several domestic animals , the Whale , Porpoise , Bear , Puma , Sloth , Coebus Monkey , Howling Monkey , Orang-Otang , Chimpanzee , and particularly Man , both in the fcettl and adult state .
The plan adopted in the examination was to distend the viscus immediately after its removal from the body with water or air , and view it as a transparent object ; to blanch the stomach by maceration , and distend it with plaster of Paris , tinted with blue , or to stain the parietes with carmine and inject with white plaster , the object in either case being to throw the delicate fibres into strong relief .
By adopting those methods , the author has been able to show that the arranlgement of the fibres in the stomach remarkably resembles that found in the heart* and bladdert .
This is particularly the case in the human stomach , where the fibres are most highly differentiated .
In it the fibres pursue complicated , but well-marked directions ; the most external and most internal fibres maintaining a more or less longitudinal course , the deeper or more central ones becoming more and more oblique as the centre of the parietes is reached .
The fibres cross each other with great regularity , both from without and from within , the longitudinal intersecting the very oblique at nearly right angles , the slightly oblique and oblique at more acute angles .
The slightly oblique , oblique and very oblique fibres are spiral in their nature , and form , or tend to form , figure-of-8 loops .
These loops are directed towards the greater and lesser curvatures of the stomach , but are also traceable on the great cul-de-sac or fundus , and on the lesser cul-de-sac or antrum pylori .
As a result of the looped distribution of the fibres , the root of the oesophagus and the pylorus are invested with oblique and very oblique spiral fibres , arranged symmetrically in two sets .
These fibres pursue opposite directions , and surround the entrance into and exit from the stomach after the manner of sphincters .
The crossing and looping of the fibres extends also to the body of the viscus , and shows that the so-called circular layer is in reality composed of very oblique spiral fibres , intersecting at very obtuse angles .
The fibres are arranged in different planes or strata , and may be divided into external and internal sets .
These are united to each other by a mutual interchange of fibrous filaments ; and the fibres of the several strata interweave to a slight extent , so that the term layer must be used in a restricted sense .
The layers are indicated by the prevailing direction of the fibres , and are something like seven in number , three external and three internal , with an intermediate or central layer between .
The fibres having the same direction , are in some instances strongly developed at one part of their course , and feebly at another .
They even become gradually attenuated , until they are no longer discernible .
The muscular coat of the stomach is thickest towards the pylorus and root of the oesophagus ; then along the lesser curvature on either side of the mesial line ; then along the greater curvature .
It is thinnest on the anterior and posterior surfaces , and towards the cardiac end .
The gradual diminution in the thickness of the coat of the stomach is occasioned by the fibres of one layer or stratum radiating and becoming more and more delicate , while those of another and opposite layer converge and become stronger and stronger ; it usually happening that the stronger fibres supplement the weaker ones , so that the parietes , although not of uniform thickness , are not suddenly strong and weak in parts , but graduated .
The only sudden thickening occurs in the shape of two ridges which run along the lesser curvature about an inch apart .
The ridges in question are very distinct in the stomach of the Cat. They can also be detected in a modified form in the stomach of the Monkey and of Man .
The dissections on which the above communication is based are preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England ; and the paper is illustrated by numerous original figures showing the distribution of the fibres in the stomachs of the Herbivora , Carnivora ; and Omnivora .

