322 On the Electromotive Properties of Muscle .
[ June 1 YI .
" Correction of Statement in the Note on the Electromoth Properties of Muscle/ read December 14 , 1876 .
" In a Lett* to Prof. Huxley , by Dr. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Ri ceived June 14 , 1877 .
Dear Sir , \#151 ; In a short Note which I communicated to the Roy Society in December last I gave an account of certain observations relatir to the electromotive phenomena of the uninjured gastrocnemius muse ' of the frog .
In commenting on these results I was led , I need not sa unintentionally , to make a serious misstatement of the doctrine taugl by Prof , du Bois-Reymond with reference to these phenomena .
A ft* comparing the electromotive properties of the muscle-cylinder derive from the gastrocnemius with those of the typical muscle-cylinder , as s\lt ; forth in the " Law of the Muscle-current , " I stated that the phenomen ; as they actually present themselves , had not been correctly described .
] is this statement that I desire to correct .
Shortly after the publication of my " Note " the magnificent collectio of scientific papers* in which Prof , du Bois-Reymond has brougt together his electrophysiological researches appeared .
The work had nc long been in my possession before I became much more strongly impress than I had been before with the extent and completeness of the investi gations to which he has devoted the last thirty-five years .
My attentioi was particularly directed to the paper , No. XYII .
of the series , " TIebe das Gtesetz des Muskelstromes mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung des M Gastrocnemius vom Frosch .
" In this very important research , with whict although it was originally published in 1863,1 was , I regret to say , on ; acquainted at second hand , Du Bois-Reymond not only recognized th electromotive anomalies of the gastrocnemius , but explained them in th ' most elaborate manner as dependent on its peculiarities of structure .
1 I at once became aware of the mistake I had made , and recognized th ' necessity of correcting it ; but determined to defer doing so until I wTai in a position to communicate further observations on the collateral ques tion with which I wras more particularly concerned .
As , however , Prof du Bois-Reymond , in a letter just received , has expressed his wish tha the misrepresentation of his views , for which I have so unwillingly made myself responsible , should be corrected as soon as possible , I write you this letter in the hope that the Society may allow it to be printed in the ' Proceedings .
' You will see that my communication relates , not to the facts recorded , but exclusively to the views expressed as to their supposed inconsistency with the " Law .
" I may , in conclusion , add that any reader who may desire to become acquainted with Prof , du Bois-Reymond 's explanation of the electromo- * ' Gesammelte Abhandlungen sir allgemeinen Muskel- und Nervenphysik , ' you \#171 ; .
du Bois-Reymond , Bd .
ii .
, Leipzig , 1877 .
1877 .
] Photographic Image of Stratified Discharges .
- , iv phenomena of the gastrocnemius muscle , as based on the researches [ have just referred to , will find it succinctly given in an admirable little work just published by Prof. Rosenthal , in the " International Scientific Series " ( 'AllgemeinePhysiologiederMuskel und Nerven ' ) , pp. 195-197 .
Ee will thereby be able to satisfy himself that that explanation covers many of the facts to which I directed attention in my " Note .
" I am , my dear Sir , Tours faithfully , J. B. SAKDEBSON .
Prof. Huxley , Sec. H.S. VII .
" Photographic Image of Stratified Discharges .
" A Letter to Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. , by W. Spottiswoode , M.A. , Treas .
R.S. Received June 2 , 1877 .
41 Grosvenor Place , June 2 , 1877 .
My Deab Stokes , \#151 ; I am sure that you will be interested to hear that Capt. Abney yesterday succeeded in photographing some of the phenomena which I had observed last year , with a revolving mirror , and which are described in my paper " On Stratified Discharges , III .
" ( Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xxv .
p. 73 ) .
The success of the operation was due mainly to his skill , but partly also to the great brilliancy and long duration of the discharges from my large induction-coil , described in the ' Phil. Mag. ' for Pebruary last .
The tube used on this occasion was a small hydrogen-tube of conical form , the effect of which , as seen in a revolving mirror , is represented in fig. 3 of the paper above quoted .
The photographic image was obtained , not by the use of a mirror , but by moving the sensitive plate across the field of view during the continuance of the discharge .
In this the first result , the position of the striae , their proper motion , their grouping in pairs of different actinic power , and consequently of colour ( a phenomenon well known in hydrogen tubes ) , are distinctly developed .
Other features , of which I reserve the description , are also noticeable .
I hope on some future occasion to make a fuller communication upon the subject to the Royal Society ; but in the mean time , if you think the matter of sufficient interest , I shall be much obliged by your offering this as a Preliminary Note .
Believe me , Tours very sincerely , W. Spottiswoode .

