]\gt ; On the Capillary enomena of Jets .
VI .
" " On the Capillary Phenomena of Jcts By RAYLEIGH , F.R.S. Received May 1879 .
lYhen water issues under pressure from a orifice in a thin plate , a jet is formed whoso -a\#381 ; diminished in area , retains tho circular form .
But if the orifice be not circular , the section of the jct remarkable transformations , which elaborately fated by Bidouc , *mally years ago .
The peculiaritics of the orifice are exaggerated the jet , but an rted mnncr .
examples taken from Bidone 's mcmoir .
FIG. 1 .
Fig. 1 , orifice in the of an ellipse ( A ) , of which the or axis is horizontnl , and lines long ; minor axis is , and 17 lines long .
The hcad of water is fact .
Near the the sections of the vcin are ellipticnl )with major horizontal .
The ellipticity radually dishcs 1 distance of 30 lines from the orifice the section is this point the axis of the section , and the ontal ) ases , so vein reduccs to sheet , very broad and .
This its to a of from orifice , the vein is by 13 escnts t section ) lines from the orifice .
It is a circlc of or 17lines meter .
is the section at a distance of 6 inches from the ol.ificc .
It is an *nccs sir la Form ct sir Dircclion dcs ills et dcs Courans d'Enu lances par diverses Ouvertures Par Gcorgc BidollC .
Lord Rayleigh on [ May 15 , elliptical figure , whose major axis is 22 lines long and minor axis lines long .
is the section at 24 inches from the orilice .
It also is an elliptical , whose vel'tical axis is 45 lines long and horizontal axis about 12lines long .
In fig. 2 , the orifice ( A ) is an equilateral triangle , with sides 2 inches long .
The head of water is 6 feet .
The vein resolves itself into three flat sheets disposed symmetrically round the axis , the planes FIG. 2 .
of tlJe shects being to tho sides of the orifice .
These sheets are very thin , and retain their tl.allsparence and to a distance of 42 inches , reckoned from the orifice .
The sections represented by , ] arc taken distances from the orifice equal respectively to 1 inch , 6 inches , 12 inches , and 24 inches .
Similarly , a vein suing from an orificc in the form of a regular polygon , of any number of sides , resolvoe itsclf into an equal number th Capill ?
Ph of Jets .
of thin eets , whose plnnes perpendicular to the sides of the Bidone explains formation of these shects , in the main ( as it appears to me ) , tisfactorily , by reference to simplel cllscs of streams .
jets , in the line , equftl and opposite vclocities , flatten into a disk , situated in the plane .
If the axes of the jcts interscct sheet is symmetrically in plane perpendicular to that of the jets .
Those portions of a jet which proceed from the outparts of an utlsymmetrical oriiice are considcred to , in some degrce , lik-e independent eams .
In many cases , more especially when the orifices are smnll and the heads of water low , the extension of the in dircctions perpendicular to the jet reaches a limit .
Sections taken at distances from the orifice show a gradual sbortening of the sheets , until a compact form is attained , similar to that at the first contraction .
Beyond , if the jet retains its coherence , sheets gradually throv.n out , but in ections bisecting the anglcs even the dircctions of former sheets .
These sheets , in turn , a limit of elopment , again contract , and so on .
The forms assumed in the case of orifices of various shapes , includin , the , the equilateral ngle , and the square , have beeIl carefully ) and ured by .
Phcnomena of this kind are of ever-day occurrence , and gellerally bc observed whenevel liquid falls from the lip of a tely elevated vessel .
substantial accuri of Bidonc 's explanation of the tion and primary lsion of the shcets or excrescences , to inquire into the of the subscqucnt contraction .
Bidonc attributes it to the viscosity of the , lvhich may be put out of the question .
In 's view the C is " " cohesion ; \ldquo ; but he does not explain what is to be understood under designation , and it is doubtful whether he had a upon the ubject .
The true explanation appears to have been given by Buff , who refers the phenomenon distinctly to the capillary force .
Under the operation of this force the fluid behaves as if enclosed iu envelope of } tension , the recurrent form of the jet is due to vibrntions of the fluid column about the figurc of equilibrium , superposed the general ressive motion .
Since the of pds upon the time psed , it is the same at the same point in spacc , and thus the motion is in the , and boundary of the is a fixed In so far as the tions m be considered to be onous , the * " " Pogg .
Ann .
Ann Bd .
Rayleigh on [ May 15 , distance between conseoutive corresponding points of the recurrent , or , as it may be called , ) wave-length of the figure , is directly proportional to the velocity of the , i. e. , to the root of the head of ater .
This elongation of with increasing pressure was observed by Bidone and by nufi , but no definite law was arrived at .
As a jet falls under the action of avity , its velocity incrcases , and thus an of might be expected ; but , as will appear later , most of this mentation is compellsated by a change in the frequcmcy of vibration due to attenuation which is the necessary collcomitant of the increased velocity .
Consequently but little lion in the nitudes of successive wave-lengths is to be noticed , even in the case of jets falling vertically with velocity .
In the experiments the iets issued ontally from orificcs in thin plates , usually adapted to a large stoneware bottle , which scrved as reservoir or cistern .
The plates were of tin , soldered to the ellds of short brass tubes rather more than an inch in diameter , by the aid of which they could be conveniently fitted to a tubulure in the lower part of the bottle .
The pressure at any moment of the outfiow could be measured by a water manometer read with a scale of millimetres .
Some little uncertainty necessarily attended the determination of the zero point ; it was usually taken to be the cading of scale at which the jet ceased to clear itself from the plate an the running out of the water .
At the ' of an expel.iment , the ificc was plugged with a small roll of clean paper , and the bottle filled an india-rubber tube in connexion with a tap .
After a sufficient time had elapsed for the water in the bottle to come sensibly to rest , the plug was withdrawn , and the observations were commenced .
jet is sensito disturbances in the reservoir , and no arran.ement hitherto tried for maintaining level of the water has been successful .
The measurements of wave-lengtl ) ( ) were made with the aid of a pair of dividcrs adjusted so as to include ouc or more wave as possible at the same lnoment tnometer was read The ulce between the points of dividers was taken from a scale of millimetres .
The facility , and some cases the success , of the operation of -lcngth depends very much upon the suital)ility of the illuluill tion .
The set of herc givon refcrs to a somewhat elonated orificc of orltl .
and wave e are measured in ] imotres .
columll contains numbers to the oots of ) ressures .
the Phenomena of Jets .
Table I.\mdash ; November 11 , Pressul.e .
Pressure ) .
25.3 . . . . . . . .
104 . . . . . . . .
91 . . . . . . . .
91 . . . . . . . .
84 . . . . . . . .
81 . . . . . . . .
113* . . . . . . . .
61* . . . . . . .
; The recment of second and columns is prctty .
on the whole .
Small discrepnncies at the bottom of the bc due to inty a to the point of prcssure , also to another cause , which will be refcrred to .
At the pressures the observed tendcucy to inCl.ense more rapidly than the velocity of the .
This result , which confirmed by other observations , to a departure the law of onous vibration .
ochronism is only to be expected when tions infinitely small , th is , the applicntion the section of jct nevcr more ci orln .
ions ith lJich Tnble I is coltccrucl , ircs from circularity are very conis 110 reason ) rntiollS ill be exec ctly ttions of finitely cless , this tion old llot lcad to xplallation of tbc ucics in ) vere the ) that the of ressul c ulldc which the jet issues .
As a mntter of observation the increase of alllplitude is npparent , and was noticed .
lt ) of theory , as much as the to ations arc due in ) to ) velocity of the jet .
Conscquently lLlplitude V root of , or ns the ) here spoken of is mcnsured , of , by { hc and llot by the valuc of the maximum law of the root of the prcssttl .
C tbus pplics only to { plitudes , and tcly it is ) which it is difficult to expel upolt .
Still it pobsible to theoretical llan i the I. ncxt sct of surcments refcr to perture in of an ellipse of modcrate ccccntricity .
were Lord Rayleigh on [ May 15 , included in the .measllrements ; in other respects the arrangements were as before .
Table II.\mdash ; November 12 .
Pressnre .
Pressure . . . . . . . . .
31 . . . . . . . .
Sl 107* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34 . . . . . . . .
] . . . . . . . .
In this case the law is fully rified , the discrepancies being decidedly within the limits of expcrimcntal error .
On the other hand , the discrepancies may be gerated by the use of higher pressures .
Table III relates to the same orifice as Table I. lnstead of the stoneware bottle , a tall wooden box was used as reservoir .
Table III.\mdash ; December 20 .
Pressure .
Wave-length .
Pressure ) . . . . . . . . .
123 . . . . . . . .
107 2.34 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
86 . . . . . . . .
70 . . . . . . . .
70 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
48 . . . . . . . .
48 The wave-lengths at the high prcssures very greatly exceed those calculated from the lower pressures according to the law applicable to hmall vibrations .
Its couclition may ve ch$llged a little interval .
the Ph enomena of It is possible , however , to observe in cases where the amplitudc is so small , that the discrepancics are moderate even higher pressures those recorded Table III .
The surenlcnts in Iy of ajet an elliptical aperture of eccentricity .
The ratio of , axes is about : 6 .
The wooden box was nsed .
measnred .
Table .\mdash ; December 18 .
sure .
Pressurc ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
290* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The relntc to ilicc in of equilateral , with htly r corncr sidc surcs bout S millims. In this the ities of tho contour peated times in round the .
Two wavewcrc Table V. lb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
07 . . . . . . .
27 92* . . . . . .
23* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 4.3 . . . . . . . .
] , . . . . . . . .
This is , cloubtless , an .
At these tiou is dillicult .
78 Lord Rayleigh on [ lIay again we observe the tendency of the wave-length to increase more rapidly than the square root of the pressure .
At higher pressures the difference is nttturally still more marked .
With the same aperture , and the woodcn box reservoir , the resuIts Vere : able T. \mdash ; December 17 . . . . . . . . . .
102 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
86 . . . . . . . .
70.7 . . . . . . . .
81 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
- . .
77 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
66 . . . . . . . .
415 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50.0 , . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
44.6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
206 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18.5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16.5 The measurements ; those belolV i deduced from mcasnrenlent of wave-lengths .
dc with j from a holc ( side millims the pcculinritics of epcated f times pnssiug round the }}-cro measured . .
Corrected . . . . . . . . . . . . .
30.2 . . . . . .
29 9 . . .
the Capillary of Jets .
ve c . . .
, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The column numbers to the roots of the pressures .
In the fourth column a corrcction is introduced , the of which will be explained later .
The of , other being the depQnds upon the nature of the fluid .
alcohol a about twice as as tnp lvater .
This is a consequence of tho smaller If water jet bc touched by a meant of wood moistened with oil , the waves in front of the place of nre out ; but no sensible effcct appears to be up If a jet of mcrctlry into dilutc sulphuric acid bc polal.ized by an electric currcnt , the chnnge in the pillary c vered by Lipmann itself by altcr{tions in the of ve .
the ( is in ) the diameter of the the vibrations about the circular form take in , ( sily mnthom The more is no upon nitude of the ]tions .
The invcstig tion 1 be in ndix I. the confine oursclves to a of results for in dimcnsions .
Let us suppose that the polar of tltc scction is ( 1 ) , so the is .
one , ) times 0VC the mcnn rndius is lttl , sincc1 the from circular form is is tity in comp ) with vibration is by vnrintion of a ns monic function of the time .
Th if ) , it bc proved . . . . . .
I11 this equation is the superfici , the density , A of the scction , crllld the uency of vibl { tion is 2 ) For a jct of fluid ftnd of ) requcllcy of varies as or .
The case of corrcLord Rayleigh on [ May 15 , sponds to a displacement of the jet as a whole , without alteration in the .
of the boundary .
there is no potential energy , and the frequency of vibration is zcro .
For the boundary is elliptical , for ular with rounded corners , and so on .
With most forms of ifice the jef is subject to more than one kind of -ibration at the sams time .
Thus with a squnre orifice vibrations would occur corresponding to , \amp ; c. However , the higher modes of tions i re qnitc subordinate , and may usually be neglected .
The values of for vario values of shown below .
7 , 7.48 It appears that the frequency for is that for ; so bhat the wave-length for a triangular jct should be the half of that of an elliptical jet of equal arca , the other circumstances being the sttme .
For a given fluid and lnode of vibration / ?
, the frequency varies as A the thickcr jet longer time of vibration .
If be the velocity of the jet , .
If the jot convey a given volume of fluid , , and thus the case of a jet vcrtically , the increase of duc to vclocity is great measure compcllstted by the decrcaso to area of section .
The law of riation of for a ivcn modc of tion with the of the flllid , and the area of scction , bc found by considerations of is a force divided by line , so that its dimcnsions are 1 in mass , in i11 timo .
volume density is of 1 dimension in mass , -3 in , and iu time .
is of coursc of 2 dimensions in th , and ss and time .
Thus the only combinal of pable a frequency , is The above reasoning upon assumption of the bility of the law of .
In caso of tions .
for which the would not be true , we still a good deal of information by the method of dimcnsions .
shaye of the orifice .
given , let us inquire into the aturc of the depcndence of upon ) , , and , the pressurc ulldcr which the jet escapes .
The 1879 .
the Phenomena of Jets .
1 dimensions of , a force divided by an area , are 1 in mass , -1 in length , and -2 in time .
Assume ; : then by the method of dimensions we have the following relations among the exponents\mdash ; whence .
Thus The exponent is undetermined ; and since any of with different values of may occur together , all that we can infer is that is of the form , where is an arbitrary function , or if we prefer it , where is equally al.bitrary .
Thus for a given liquid and shape of orifice , there is complete similarity if the pressure be taken inversely proportional to the linear dimension , and this whether the deviation from the circular form be great or small .
In the case of water Quincke found on the C.G.S. system of units .
On the same system ; and thus we get for the frequency of the gravest vibration , ( 3 ) .
For a sectional area of one square entimetre , there are thus vibrations per second .
obtain the pitch of middle we should require a diameter or rather more than a millimetre .
For the general value of , we have ( 4 ) .
If be the head of water to which the velocity of the jet is due , ( 5 ) .
VOL. XXIX .
Lord Rayleigh on [ May 15 , In applying this formula it must be remembered that A is the area of the section of the jet , and not the area of aperture .
We might indeed deduce the vaIue of A from the area of the aperture by introduction of a coefficient of contraction ( about ) ; but the area of the aperture ] is not very easily measured .
It is much better to calculate A from an observation of the quantity of fluid ( V ) , discharged under a measured head , comparable in nitude with that prevailing when is measured .
Thus .
In the following calculations the C.G.S. system of units is employed .
In the case of the eniptical perture of Table II , the value of was found in this way to be .
Hence at a head the vavelength should be the value of !
7 being taken at 981 .
The corresponding observed value of is 2 5.5 .
Again , in the case of tlIe experiments recorded in Table , it was found that .
Hence for the value of the wavelength should be given by The corresponding observed value is We will next take the ular orifice of Table .
The value of A was to be 154 .
Hellae for hcad of the value of calculated a priori , is as compared with found by direct obsel.vation .
the orifice of Table , we have .
Hence , if as compared with by It will be cmarked that in evcry cnso the observed value of ceds the calculated value .
The discrcpancies are to be attributed , not so much , I imagino , errors of servation as to excesve amplitude of vibration , a departure from frequcney propor to plitudes .
The closest meant is in the case of , where the amplitude of tion w smallcst .
It is also possible that capillttry tension actu lly the Jets .
operative in these was somewhat less than that determined by Quincke for distilled water .
Vhen the pressures are small , the are no longer considerable in comparison with the diameter of the , and vibrations cannot be supposed to take place sensibly in two dimensions .
The frequency of vibl'ation then becomes itself a ction of the -length .
This question is investigated atically in Appendix I. For the case ) , it is proved that .
Hence for the aperture of Table , .
expressed in ccntimetres .
The numbers in the fourth coIumn of the table are calculated according to this formula .
On the other hand at high lency becomes a function of the pressul'e .
Since quency is hvay of amplitude , and in the )licntion , the of tbc amplitude varies as 7 , , the wave-lcno.th is iven approximately by an expression of the form , and arc It appears from , and , I , have been expected , that frequency amplitnde increases , so is When the hns the form of an cirele , and the flow of fluid its ) is nnimpcded by ) is a perfect balance of laternl motions and pressnres , ftlld cquently nothing to render the jct in its futnrc co this case , however , the phenomcna by the opcraion of the from cylindric:l form unimpaired , tho jet rnpidly self i reg.ular manner into defaclJcdm ; i sscs .
It has , fact , been s by Plateau , *both f theory nnd experiment , ) in of SUl'face-tension the is nn form of when its ] exceeds its The cumstances a the tion of a jet into drops been ] and by and for the most part by are , however , a wl ) ) to tt hitherto ; and i to *ique ct des sollnlis \ldquo ; moire Rllcees 1 on \ldquo ; .
liii , 183 Lord Rayleigh on [ May 15 , I to pass in review the leading features of Plateau 's theory , imparting , where I am able , additional precision .
Let us conceive , then , an infinitely long circular cylinder of liquid , at rest , inquire under what circumstances it is stable , or unstable , for small displacements , symmetrical about the axis of figure .
Whatever the deformation of the originally straight boundary of the axial section may be , it can be resolved by Fourier 's theorem into deformations of the harmonic type .
These component deformations are in general infinite in number , of every wave-length , and of arbitrary phase ; but in the first of the motion , with which alone we are at present concerned , each produces its effect independently of every other , and may be considered by itself .
Suppose , therefore , that the equation of the dary is , . . .
( 6 ) , where is a small quantity , the axis of being that of symmetry .
The wave.length of the disturbance may be called , and is connected with by the equation .
The capilJary tension endeavours to contract the surface of the fluid ; so that the stability , or instability , of the cylindrical form of equilibrium depends upon whether the surface ( enclosing a given volume ) be greater or less respectively after the displacement than before .
It has been proved by Platean ( see Appendix I ) that tlIe surface is greater than before displacoment if , that is , if ; but less , if , or Accordingly , the equilibrium is stable , if be less than the circumference ; but unstable , if be greater than the circumference of the cylinder .
Disturbances of the former kind , like those considered in the earlier part of this paper , lead to vibrations of harmonic type , whose amplitudes always remain small ; but disturbances , whose wave-length exceeds the , result in a greater and greater departure from the cylindrical figure .
The analytical expression for the motion in the latter caso involves exponcntial terms , one of which ( except in case of a particular relation between the initial displacements and velocities ) increases rapidly , being equally multiplied in equal times .
The coefficient ( q ) of the time in the exponential term may be considered to measure the degree of dynamical instability ; its reciprocal is the time in which the disturbance is multiplied in the ratio 1 : The degree of instability , as measured by , is not to be determined from sfatical considerations only ; erwise there would be no limit to the increat , ing efficiency of tho longer wave-lengths .
The joint operation of superlicial tension and inertia in fixing the wave- commoll to every of the fluid is rily without infiuence upon the stabilit } , muy ) refore bc left out of account for convenience of ception exprcssion .
1879 .
] the Ph enomena of Jets .
81- ) length of maximum instability was , I believe , first considered in a communication to the Mathematical Society , the stability of Jets It appears that the value of may be expressed in the form .
( 7 ) , where , as before , is the superficial tension , the density , and is given by the following table:\mdash ; The greatest value of corresponds , not to a zero value of , but approximately to , or to .
Hence the maximtlm occurs when the of is about half as as that at which instability first commences .
Tak-ing for water , in C.G.S. nifs , , we for the case of maximum instal ) ility , ( 8 ) , if be the diameter of cylinder .
Thus , if ; or for a diameter of one centimetre the is nlultiplied times in about -ninth of sccond .
If the be multiplied 1000 fold in time , so th .
For example , if the meter bc one millimetrc , is multiplied 1000 fold in about rtieth of second .
In of nates the rapid ation of a jct of ) not cause surprise .
The relave importnncc of two ]rmonic d depends upon their magnitudes , upon the rntc at which they grow .
Vhen the initial valuef ; very collHideration is the more importallt ; for , if be roprcscnted by in which exceeds their rntio is ) this rntio dewithout limit tinle , tcver bc the initinl ( finitc ) .
If the nccs arc ) , that ono is ultimately preponderant , for which the measure of bility is * ' ' Math. Soc. Prcc Novcmber , 1878 .
Sec also Appcndix I. Lord Rayleigh on [ AIay 15 , greatest .
The smaller the causes by which the original equilibrium is upset , the more will the cylindrical mass tend to divide itself regularly portions whose lengffi is equal to 45 times the diameter .
But a disturbance of less favourable wave-lcngth may gain the preponderance in case its nitude be sufficient bo produce disintegration in a less time than that required by the other disturbances present .
The application of these results to actual jets presents no great difficulty .
The disturbances , by which equilibrium is upset , are imupon the fluid as it leaves the aperture , and the continuous portion of the jet represents the distance travelled during the time necessary to produce ration .
Thus the length of the continuous portion necessarily depends upon the character of the disturbances in respect of amplitude and .
It be increased COIlsiderably , as Savart showed , by a suitable isolation of the reservoir from tremors , whether due to external sources or to the impact of the jet itself in the vessel placed to receive it .
Neverbheless it does not appear to be possible to carry the prolongation very far .
Whether the residuary disburbances are of external origin , or are due to friction , or to some pcculiarity of the fluid motion within the reservoir , has not been satisfactorily detcrmined .
On this point Plateau 's explanations are not very clear , and he sometimes expresses himself as if the time of disintegration depended only upon the capillary tension , without eference to initial turbances at all .
Two laws were formulated by Savart with respect to the length of continuous portion of a jet , and have been to a certain extent explained by Plateau .
For a given fluid and a given orifice the length is approximately proportional to the square root of the head .
This at once from theory , if it can be assumed that the disturbances remain always of the same character , so that the bime of disintegration is constant .
* When the head is given , Savart found the to be proportional the diameter of bhe orifice .
] it appears that the time in which a disturbance is multiplied in a given ratio varies , not as , but as .
Again , when the fluid is , the time as .
But it may be doubted , I think , whether the length of the continuous portion obeys any very simple laws , even when external disturbances are avoided as far as possible .
When the circumstances of the expcriment are such that the reservoir is fiuenced by hocks due to impact of the jet , the distion u establishes itself with complete regularity , and is attended by a musical note ( Savart ) .
The lmpact of the ular series of drops which is at any moment the sink ( or vesscl the ) , determines rupture into similar drops of the ortion of the jet at the same moment passing the orifice .
The pitch * For the snke of siml ) hoity , I neglect the action of the jet furmed .
rlhe question been further discussed by Plate .
187 ( J. ] the Capillary Phenomena of Jets .
of the note , not absolutely definite , cannot differ much from that which corresponds to division of the jet of maximum instability ; and , in fact , Savart found that the frequency was dircctly as the square root of the head , inversely as the diameter of oritice , and independent of the nature of the fluid\mdash ; laws which follow immediately from Plnteau 's theory .
From the pitch of ) note due to a jet of given diameter , and issuing under a given head , the wave-lencrtho of the nascent divisions can be at once dedueed .
Reasoning from some ations of Savart , Plateau finds in this as the of the length of a division to the diameter of the jet .
The diameter of the orifice was 3 millims. , from which that of the jet is deduced by the introduction of the coefficient .
Now that th of a division has been estimated a it is perhaps preferable to revcrse Plntenu 's calculation , and to ibit the frequetlcy of vibratiou in of the other data of the problem .
Thus equenc } ( 9 ) .
But the most certain of .
complete ularity of resoIution is to bring the servoir under the influence of an external vibrator , whose pitch is approximately the snme as proper to the jet .
employed 's lIler , ttacl ) to the oodcn frame supported the rescrvoir .
PerlIaps all electricnlly maintained tuning-fork is still that the most important part of the effect is due to the forced vibr tion of that side of the vessel which contains tho orifice , and thab but little of it is the air .
lVith respcct to the limits of pitch , Savart found that the note be a above , more than an octave that proper to the jet .
According to theol.y , tbcre would be no welldefined ] imit ; on othel sidc , external vibration cannot be efficient if it tends to produce divlsiotls whose length is loss than the circumference of the jet .
This wotlld give for the inte detining the upper limit : 4 , which is arly a fifth .
In the case of Plateau 's numbers the discrcpallcy is a littlo greater .
The detached masses a jct is resolved do nob at once assume and retain a spherical form , but cxecute a of vibrations , .
alternately comprcssed and ated in the direction of the axis of symmetry .
When resolution effected in a perfectly periodic manner , each drop is in the same phase of its vibration it passes a given point of spacc ; thence Lrises t ronlalkable .
of alternate swellings and contr ctio t by vart .
The interval from one swelling to the next is the space described by * ' ' Pogg .
Ann ' , 1859 .
Lord Rayleigh on [ May 15 , the drop during one complete vibration , and is therefore ( as Plateau shows ) proportional coeteris paribus to the square root of the The time of vibration is of course itsclf a function of the nature of the fluid and of the size of the drop .
By the method of dimensions alone it may be seen that the time of infinitely small vibrations varies directly as the square root of the mass of the sphere and inversely as the square root of the capillary tension ; and in Appendix II it is proved that its expression is . . . . .
( 10 ) , being volume of the mass .
In an experiment to determine the time of vibration , stream of .
centims. per second was broken up under the action of a fork making 128 vibrations per second .
eglecting the mass of the small spheruIes ( of which more will be said presently ) , we get for the mass of each sphere , or .
; and thence by ( 10 ) , king as second .
The distance between the first and second swellings was by measurement centims. The level of the contraction midway between the two swellings was centims. below the surface of liquid in the reservoir , corresponding to a velocity of 175 centims. per second .
These data give for the time of vibration , second .
The discrepancy between the two values of , which is I had expected , is due in part to excessive amplitude , rendering the vibration slower than that calculated for infinitely small amplitudes .
A rough estimate of the degree of to be expected at the first swelling may be arrived at by calculating the eccentricity of the , which has the same volume and fxce as those appertaining to the portion of fluid in question when forming part of the undisturbed cylinder .
Tn the caso of moht natural mode of ] ution , the volume of a drop is 9 its surface is .
The eccentricity of the obfatum which has and this surface is 944 , correspondin to a ratio of principal axes equal to about 1 : S. In consequeIlCG of the rapidity of the motion some optical device is necessary to renrlcr rent the the tion of a jet .
Magnus ) loyed a mirror , and a rotating disk from a finc slit was cut out .
The readiest method of obtaining instantallcous ination is the electric spark , but with this Magnus was not .
" " The rounded masses of which the consist reflect the light emanating from a point in such a 1879 .
] Capr.llary Phenomena of Jets .
manner the eye sees only the single point of each , which is principally illuminated .
Hence , when the stream is illuminated by the electric spark , the swellings appear like a ' of pearls ; but their form cannot be nised , because the intensity of the light retlected from the remaining portions of the masses is too small to allow this , on account of the velocity with which the impression is lost.\ldquo ; * The electric spark had , howcver , been used successfully for this purpose some years before by Bufl , who observed the shadooo of the jet 011 white screen .
Preferable to an opaque screen in my experience is a piece of ground glass , which allows the shadow to be examined from the further side .
I have found also that the jet may be very well observed directly , if the illumination is properly managed .
For this purpose it is necessary to place the jet between the source of and the eye .
The best effect is obtained when the light of the is somewhat diffused by being passed ( for example ) hrough a piece of ground glass .
The spark be obtained from the secondary of an induction coil , whose terminals are in connexion with the coatings of a Leyden jar .
By adjustment of the contact brcaker the series of sparks be made to fit more or less perfectly with the formation of the drops .
A still greater improvement ) effected by using electrically ined fork , which performs the double office of controlling the resolution of the jet nnd of interrupting the primftry current of the induction coil .
this form the experiment is one of remarkable beauty .
The jet , illuminated only in one phase of transformation , appears almost perfectly stett and mtty be examined at leisure .
The that 1 used had a frequency of 128 , and its vibration to the reservoir ] the both were placed any special provision the purpose .
The only weak point in the arrangement was rather fceble cter of the sparks , upon the use of an duction coil too for the rate of ittence .
A in the under observation could be effected by htly upon the rescrvoir , whereby the communicated was rendcred more or less intense .
The jet issued horir .
from orifice of ftbont half centimetre in meter , and almost tely i a rippled outline .
The radually iitude of the distul.bnncc , the form tion of the elong.ated the transformation of the meant into a crule , could be cxnmined with ease .
In consequencc of sformation being in a more advnnced stage at the { the 1inder end , ] ment remains for a moment connected with the mass * ' Phil. Mag ' xviii , ] , p. " " Liebig 's Ann Lord Rayleigh on [ May 15 , it has freed itself from the mass in front , and thus the resulting spherule acquires a backwards relative velocity , which of necessity leads to a collision .
Under ordinary circumstances the spherule rebounds , and may be thus reflected backwards and forwards several times between the adjacent masses .
But if the jet be subject to moderate electrical influence , the spherule amalgamates with a larger at the first opportunity .
* Magnus showed that the stream of spherules may be diverted into another path by the attraction of a powerfully electrified rod , held a little below the place of resolution .
Very modiIications of these phenomena are observed when a jet from an in a thin plate is directed obliquely upwards .
In this case drops which break away with different velocities are carried under the action of gravity into different paths ; and thus under ordinary circumstances a jet is apparently resolved into \ldquo ; sheaf or bundle of jets all lying in one vertical plane .
Under the action of a vibrator of suitable periodic time the resolution is regularised , and then each drop , breaking away under like conditions , is projected with the same velocity , and therefore follows the same path .
The apparent athering together of the sheaf into a fine and well-defined stream is an effect of singular beauty .
In certain cases where the tremor to which the jet is subjecbed is compound , the single path is replaced by two , three , or even more paths , which the drops follow in a regular cycle .
explanation has been given with remarkable by Plateau .
If for example besides the principal disturbance , which determines the size of the drops , there be another of twice the period , it is clear that the alternate drops break away under diiferentt condilions and therefore with different velocities .
Complete periodicity is only attained after the passage of a pair of drops ; and thus the odd series of drops pursues one path , and the even series another .
All I propose at present is to bring forward a few facts connected with the influence of elecicity , which are not mentioned in my former communication .
To it , however , I must refer the reader for further explanations .
The literature of the subject is given very fully in Plateau 's second volume .
When the is projected upwards at a moderate obliquity , the sheaf is ( as .
avart describes it ) colliined to a vertical plane .
Under these circumstances , there are few or no collisions , as the drops have room to clear one , and moderate electrical influence is without effect .
At a higher iquity the drops begin to be scattered out of the vcrbic plane , which is a sjgn that collisions are taking place .
Moderate electrical influence will now reduce the scattering again to * ' ' Proc. Roy .
Soc , lS79 .
On the Infiuence of Electricity on Colliding Water Drops .
has shown that a gas burner also be used with advantage .
1879 .
] the Capillary of Jets .
the vertical plane , by the coalescence of drops which come into colltact .
When the jection is ncarly vcrtical , the whole scattering is due to collisions , and is destroyed by electricity .
If the resolution into drops is ' by vibrations of equency , the principal drops the same path , and unless the pl.ojection is vertical , there are no collisions , as in my former paper .
It sometimes happens that the spheruics projected in a distinct a with the nlain strcnm .
This is the resuIt of collisions veen the spherules and the principal drops .
I believe that the former are reflected and ards several times , until at last they escape terftlly .
the principal drops themselves collide in a egulal .
manner , and ultimately escape in a stream .
all cases the behavioul under electrical influence is a Cl.iterion of the occurren ce of collisions .
The principal phenomena are easily observed directly , with the aid of instantaneous illumination . .
The subject of this appendix is the ation of the motion of fi.ictionless fluid under the action of capillary , the configul.ation of the fluid infinitely little from that of equilibriunl in tho form of infinite circular cylinder .
the { of the of polar in the the form of the surfirce at any time by the tion . . . . .
( 11 ) , in which is vays a small .
By theoreln , the arbitrary function may be a sel.ies of of the type ; and , as we shall seo course of the , each of these terms may be considel .
C ) } ) Clldcntly of others .
The summation extends to Yalues of , and to all positi values of zero During the the quantity does not remaill absolutely constant , and must be by the condition that the enclosed is invariable .
Now for the surface .
, we find volume ; so that , if denote the radius of section of the ) cylinder , Lord Rayleigh on [ May 15 .
whence approximately ( 1.3 ) .
For the case , ( 13 ) is replaced by ( 14 ) .
We have now to the area ) of the surface of ( 22 ) , on which the potential energy of displacement depends .
We have Surface ; so that , if denote the surface corresponding on the to the unit of length , . . .
( 15 ) , the value of being substituted from ( 13 ) .
The potential encrgy , estimated per unit length , is therefore expressed by . . . .
( 16 ) , being the superficial tension .
For the case ?
, ( 16 ) is ] aced by ' . . . . .
( 17 ) .
From ( 16 ) it appears that , when is unity or grcater integer .
the value of is pobive , showing that , for all displacements of these kinds , the original equilibrium is the case of displacements symmetrical about the , we see from ( 17 ) that the equilibrium is stable or ble is or less than u11ity , the less or greater than the circumference of the cylinder .
If expression for in ) invve a number of lvith vaxions values of , the corrcsponding expression for is by simple ddition of the expressions relating to component terms , and contains only the squares ( and not the products ) of the quantities 1879 .
Capiltary of Jets .
The velocity potential of the motion of the fluid satisfies the equation ; or , if in order to correspond with ( 12 ) we assume that the variable I part is proportional to ( 18 ) .
The solution of ( 18 ) under the condition that there is no introduction or abstraction of fluid along the axis of symmetry is\mdash ; \amp ; . . . .
( 19 ) , in which , and is the symbol of the Bessel 's function of the ?
th order , so that ( 20 ) .
The constant be found from the condition that the radial velocity when coincides with that implied in ( 12 ) .
Thus .
The kinetic energy of motion is , by Green 's theorem , .
; so that , by ( 21 ) , if denote the energy per unib length , ( 22 ) .
When , we must take , instead of ( 22 ) , ( 23 ) .
The most general value of is to bc found by simple summation , with respect to ?
and , from the particular values expressed and ( .
Since the expressions for and involve only the squt ) and not the products , of the quantities .
it follows that the Lord Rayleigh on [ May 10- , motions represented by ( 12 ) take place in perfect independence of one another .
For the free motion we get by 's method from ( 16 ) , ( 22 ) , ( 24 ) , which applies without to the case .
Thus , if , ( 25 ) , giving the frequencv of vibration in tbc cases of stability .
If and , the soIution changes its form .
If we suppose that ( 26 ) .
From this the table in the text was calculated .
When is greater ] unity , the values of in ( 25 ) are usually in practical cases nearly the same as if were zero , or the motion took place in two dimensions .
We may therefore advantageously introduce into ( 25 ) the supposition that is small .
In this way we get ( 27 ) , or , if be neglected altogether , ( 28 ) , which with the formulae used in the text .
When , there no force of restitution for the case of a displacement in two dimensions .
Combining in the usual way two stationary vibrations , whose phases differ by a quarter of a period , we find as the expression of a progressive wave , . . . . .
( 29 ) .
For the itpplication to a jet tho essive wftve must be reduced to stcady motion by the superposition of a ) mmon velocity ( v ) equal ftnd opposite to that of ) wave'f$ tion .
The solution then becomes , illary Ph : ena of which is an absoIute constant .
] corresponding velocitypotential is . . .
( S1 ) .
It is instructive to verify these reslllts by the to steady motion .
The resultnnt velocity any is approximately to ; and At the surface we have approximately aIJd Thus by the hydrodynamical tion of pressure , with use of , since const .
( 32 ) .
The pressure due to superficial tension is , if are the radii of curvature in planes and to the axis ; and from ( 30 ) ; so that Pressureconst .
) Thus the pressure due fo velocity is exactly bftlnnced by the cnpillary force , and the surface condition of is II .
1Ve will now investjo ate in snmc thner ttions of a liquid a finino oursclves for brevity to of tions symmctric axis , is sufficient for the application in the tcxt .
requirc for thei ] expression only 's functionfi ; the probleln , 's functions , may be treated in the same way , to the same results .
The dius be expanded any time in the serics . . .
( 33 ) , Rayleigh on [ May 15 , where are small quantities relatively to , and ( according to the usual notation ) represents the cosine of the colatitude ( ) .
For the volume included within the surface ( 33 ) we have . .
approximately .
If be the radius of the sphere of equilibrium , . . .
( 34 ) .
We have now to calculate the area of the surface S. For the first part For the second part The value of the quantity on the right hand side may be found with the aid of the formula* Thus or , since by ( 34 ) .
( 35 ) .
* Todhunter 's " " Laplace 's Functions S 62 .
1879 .
] th of Jets .
If bc the esive tension , the potential energy .
( 36 ) .
We ] now to lculttfe the etic e of motion .
The bc expanded in the serics ; for we ' of the luc of ) from , : nnd thus ( 38 ) .
Sincc of the itics a and tto- not occur in the exprossions motions reprc.scllted rlus occur .
The from for is by , if os , .
iodic cn in the tcxt tion ( from ( 40 ) .
, To tl of of put , or on tsion D to

