147 The Specific Heats of Air and Carbon Dioxide at Atmospheric Pressure , by the Continuous Electrical Method , at 20 ' C. and at 100 ' C. By W. F. G. Swann , A.R.C.S. , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Prof. H. L. Callendar , F.R.S. Received October 8 , \#151 ; Read December 10 , 1908 .
) ( Abstract .
) A steady stream of gas was passed through a jacketed tube ( the calorimeter proper ) , in which it was heated by a current of electricity passing through a platinum coil of 1 ohm resistance , the rise in temperature being measured by two 12-ohm platinum thermometers used differentially .
If C is the electric current , E the potential difference between the ends of the heating coil , B0 the rise in temperature of the gas , Q the rate of flow of the gas in grammes per second , J the mechanical equivalent of heat , and S the specific heat of the gas at constant pressure , the elementary theory of the -experiment gives CE = JSQ where h B0 is a term representing the heat loss by radiation , etc. A similar experiment with a rate of flow about half the above value , and with the electric current adjusted so that the rise in temperature was about the same as before , gave a second equation ; so that h could be eliminated and -S determined .
Before passing into the calorimeter the gas passed through a brass tube packed with copper gauze , the tube , together with the calorimeter jacket , being surrounded by another jacket through which steam or water could be passed , so that the gas entered the calorimeter proper at a constant temperature .
The largest currents of gas through the apparatus were of the order of 0'5 litre per second .
The rate of flow was kept constant by an automatic pressure regulator .
It was measured by passing the gas through 16 fine metal tubes arranged in parallel , and observing the pressure difference between their ends , the mean pressure , and the temperature .
The expression giving the rate of flow in terms of these quantities was found by a series of experiments in which the gas was pumped into a reservoir of about 50 litres capacity , and then allowed to discharge through the apparatus .
By means of a special device , the times taken for certain quantities of gas to pass VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; A. M 148 The Specific Heats of Air and Carbon , etc. through the apparatus were recorded automatically while the gas was actually flowing , so that initial fluctuations were avoided .
The value of the electric current was obtained by measuring the potential difference set up at between the ends of a standard resistance coil , in terms of cadmium cells .
The heating effects of the leads of the heating coil were determined by experiments made under the exact conditions of the main experiments .
The rise in temperature in the main experiments was about 5 ' C. , and it was measured to 0'001'C .
Thus the specific heats were measured practically at single temperatures instead of over large ranges .
In the paper the results of experiments made to test the validity of assuming the heat loss for a given rise in temperature to be independent of the rate of flow of the gas are recorded .
The matter is also examined from a theoretical standpoint , and corrections are calculated and applied where the assumptions made in the elementary theory are such as to lead to errors of more than about one part in 10,000 .
The corrections are small , only amounting to one or two parts in 1000 .
The full details of the various other precautions and corrections are given in the paper , and the mean of a large number of observations gave the following results:\#151 ; Air .
Carbon dioxide .
0"24173 cal .
per gramme degree at 20 ' C. 0-20202 cal .
per gramme degree at 20 ' CL 0-24301 " " 100 ' C. 0-22121 " " 1003 CL The several determinations agree in each case to about 1*5 parts per 1000 , and the mean results are probably correct to one part in 1000 .
It is possible to make a comparison of the results with the values deduced on theoretical considerations from Joly 's measurements of the specific heats at constant volume .
This comparison is made in the paper , and it is shown that the results agree nearer than to one part in 1000 in the case of air , while in the case of carbon dioxide the results agree to 1 per cent. , which is as near as can be expected , in view of the fact that , in order to compare the results , extrapolations and interpolations have ^to be made over rather wide ranges of pressure and temperature , which is hardly justifiable in the case of carbon dioxide .
The values of the specific heats obtained by the author are greater by about 2 per cent , than the corresponding values found by Eegnault , and later investigators who have employed methods similar in principle to that of Regnault .
An explanation of this fact is suggested in the paper .
It is shown that in Regnault 's experiments , in virtue of the fact that the corrections for the heat conducted through the pipe connecting the heating bath The Depression of the Filament of Maximum , etc. 149 to the calorimeter were determined from experiments in which no gas was flowing through the pipe , the results obtained by him must be too low by a quantity which is uncertain to the extent of 5 per cent , of the value of the specific heat .
In virtue of the form of connecting pipe used , the error probably amounts to something of the order of half this amount , which would bring the results into close agreement with the author 's .
The work was carried out in Prof. Callendar 's laboratory at the Imperial College of Science , and the method adopted was , in its main features , the* same as that employed by Prof. Callendar for the determination ofj the specific heat of steam .
On the Depression of the Filament Maximum Velocity a Stream flowing through an Open Channel .
By A. H. Gibson , M.Sc .
( Viet .
) .
( Communicated by Prof. J. E. Petavel , F.R.S. Received December 18 , 1908 , \#151 ; Read January 14 , 1909 .
) When water flows with sinuous motion through a circular pipe the resistance introduced by the solid boundaries reduces the velocity of axial flow as the sides are approached , this velocity being greatest at the centre and least at the sides , as indicated by the transverse velocity curve of fig. 1 .
When flow takes place through a closed rectangular pipe , the same effect is Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
M 2

