88 Mr. W. N. Hartley .
[ May 9 , VI .
" On Films produced by Vaporised Metals and their Applications to Chemical Analysis.\#151 ; Preliminary Notice.* ' By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Received April 22 , 1889 .
Having recently communicated to the Royal Dublin Society ( March 20th ) a paper entitled " On the Constitution of the Electric Spark , " I have described a means of obtaining deposits of metals and of metallic oxides , which serves as a very delicate test for some of the metals .
It has been considered desirable to devote much further study to the subject , and a method of working has been devised which , so far as it has been applied , appears to be especially useful in the examination of certain metallurgical products , as for instarfce in the detection and even estimation of the precious metals in copper , lead , and tin , and of certain impurities in copper .
The method may be stated to be carried out in the following manner - Electrodes of the metals to be tested are put into communication with the wires of an induction coil used for the production of condensed sparks , such as serve for the photographing of the ultra-violet spectra .
When a plate of mica through which a series of pin-holes has been pricked is placed in the path of the spark and the current is passed for a period varying from 5 to 10 , 15 , 20 , 30 , and 60 seconds , a series of deposits of different degrees of tenuity are obtained , which are metallic with the noble metals , such as silver , gold , palladium , iridium , and .
platinum , and are oxides with such metals as are oxidisable , for instance magnesium , zinc , cadmium , lead , tin , copper , iron , nickel and cobalt , aluminium , indium , thallium , arsenic , antimony , and bismuth .
Gold gives films of extreme tenuity and beautiful in riohness of colour , partly deep red or rose-tinted , but chiefly of a magnificent blue , with a shade of green in the thinnest part of the deposit .
Silver gives yellow films , while palladium , iridium , and platinum give different shades of brown .
The films are different as to the area which they cover , the difference being due to the volatility and the colouring power of the metals .
Gold is by far the most remarkable in this respect .
The colours of the oxides , such as various shades of brown with iron , cobalt , nickel , thallium , cadmium , bismuth , and yellow with zinc and lead , serve as tests by which they can be recognised .
The volatility of the oxides is also a distinctive feature ; arsenic forms a remarkable series of rings round the pin-hole , and other metals , antimony standing next , are thus distinguishable .
It is stated in the paper already quoted that beside the metallic deposit which silver gives , there is a yellow colour and a tinge of rose colour and violet .
The silver employed was originally prepared by 1889 .
] On Films produced by Vaporised Metals .
89 the late Dr. W. A. Miller , F.R.S. , for spectroscopic purposes , and it is remarkably pure .
The photographed spectra of this metal yield no lines traceable to gold or any other foreign element .
( For its spectrum see 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1884 , pp. 109 and 134 .
) Nevertheless I considered that the rose-red and violet tints on the mica films were due to minute traces of gold .
Since then , in order to prove or disprove this point , attempts have been made to prepare specimens of perfectly pure silver by the processes of M. Stas , but so far no samples have been obtained which can be relied upon as absolutely free from gold .
In one case the chloride precipitated from a cold solution was digested several times with hot aqua regia , washed completely free from soluble matter until the washings had no acid reaction , and subsequently reduced to metal by boiling with pure caustic alkali and milk sugar .
This specimen was found to give a characteristic yellow film , but there was a trace of violet-grey surrounding the yellow of the silver , which resembled the colour obtained from metal to which traces of gold had been added , and which became deeper and deeper in colour as the quantity of gold was increased .
An alloy was made by melting this sample of silver and adding thereto of its weight of pure gold .
The alloy was heated to boiling point for a minute ; in order to agitate and completely mix the metals , the fused metal was kept in rapid rotation , and it was granulated by pouring it into water .
The cooled metal was next treated in a manner intended to render it homogeneous in composition ; thus , it was hammered out flat , broken in pieces , and again melted , the fused metal being granulated , and the solidified drops being again hammered into disks .
By a precisely similar treatment alloys were made from this metal containing proportions of gold amounting to no more than T^g-o^th and toWoo^ respectively .
The hammered beads , generally about a decigramme in weight , were submitted to the action of the spark , and deposits of the metal on mica were obtained by passing the spark for 5 , 10 , 15 , 20 , 30 , and 60 seconds .
The difference between the deposits from the alloy containing TtfW^h of gold was clearly seen with the naked eye in all cases .
The alloy containing -j-g^j^th was as clearly seen to contain less gold than the foregoing , and more than that with 1 g-gVo'oth ; and that with i o oV , o gth g\amp ; ve unmistakeable evidence of gold when examined with a 2-inch power under the microscope .
The gold tints of rose-red and blue were observed as rings even in cases where the spark had passed for no longer than 5 seconds .
Indeed these tests with the shorter duration of the spark gave the best evidence , since too much of the silver deposit obscured the characteristic colours .
On the other hand , a much longer exposure of 10 or 20 minutes widely diffused the -deposit of gold , and rendered it evident outside the silver .
It may Presents .
[ May 9 , thus far be considered as proved that a decigramme of silver containing TooWo^h of gold gives a distinctive deposit of this metal , which is recognised by its colour , and that silver as pure as that obtained by the process of M. Stas which .
I have described gives no such decisive indication , though it does not yield films which can be considered as absolutely free from gold .
Furthermore , this test for gold is more sensitive than that depending upon the employment of the spectroscope .
Many specimens of .
copper and silver have been tested , and in each of them there appears to be a trace of gold .
Gold of the fineness of 9 , 12 , 15 , 18 , and 22 carats has been shown to yield films each with distinctive characters .
The various deposits of oxides and of some metals are easily treated with such acid and other reagents as are gaseous or capable of being volatilised , and the colour reactions of the sulphides may be obtained as definite rings of larger or smaller diameter , corresponding with the volatility of the metals .
The application of this method may ultimately be made to lead to valuable results , but most of the large number of films already prepared have yet to be examined , and their properties described ; it is therefore proposed to deal exhaustively with the subject in a future communication .
Presents , May 9 , 1889 .
Transactions .
Alnwick :\#151 ; Berwickshire Naturalists ' Club .
Proceedings .
Vol. XII .
Part 1 .
8vo .
[ Alnwick 1888 .
] The Club .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circular .
Vol. VIII .
No. 72 .
4to .
Baltimore 1889 ; Studies in Historical and Political Science .
Ser. 7 .
No. 4 .
8vo .
1889 ; Notes Supplementary to the Studies .
Nos. 2\#151 ; 3 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1889 .
The University .
Berlin:\#151 ; K. Preuss .
Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Sitzungs-berichte .
Jahrgang 1888 .
Nr .
38-52 .
8vo .
Berlin .
The Academy .
Catania:\#151 ; Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali .
Bullettino Mensile 1889 .
Fasc .
4-5 .
8vo .
Catania 1889 .
The Academy .
Emden :\#151 ; Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Jahresbericht 72\#151 ; 73 .
8vo .
Emden 1889 .
The Society .
Kew:\#151 ; Royal Gardens .
Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information .
No. 28 .
8vo .
London 1889 .
The Director .
Leipsic Astronomische Gesellschaft .
Vierteljahrsschrift .
Jahrgang XXIV .
Heft 1 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1889 .
The Society .

