II .
" On the frequent occurrence of Phosphate of Lime , in the crystalline form , in Human Urine , and on its pathological importance .
" By ARTHUR HILL HASSALL , M.D. Lond. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received November 9 , 1859 .
In 1854 I submitted to the Royal Society a paper " On the frequent occurrence of Indigo in Human Urine .
" This communication , which was published in the 'Philosophical Transactions , ' attracted considerable attention both at home and abroad .
The singular fact of the frequent presence of indigo in the urine , first announced by me , has since been amply conrfirmed by a variety of observers , I have now to place before the Society some investigations in relation to the not uncommon occurrence in human urine of phosphate of lime , as a deposit , in a well-marked crystalline form .
When the earthy phosphates are treated of by writers , in connexion with the urine , they are usually described collectively , and it is seldom that each kind of phosphate is particularised , and yet there are several which may occur either separately or together .
The phosphate of ammonlia and magnesia , or triple phosphate , is indeed often specified , but rarely is phosphate of lime separately mentioned , and phosphate of magnesia scarcely ever ; and yet phosphate of lime is very frequently present as a deposit in urine , much more so , indeed , according to my experience , than the triple phosphate , excluding those cases of the occurrence of that ammoniacal phosphate , arising from the decomposition of the urea of the urine subsequent to its escape from the kidneys .
Even in those few cases in which phosphate of lime is specially mentioned , it is described usually as mixed up with the other phosphates , and always as occurring in the amorphous or granular , and never in the crystalline state ; further , no peculiar importance is attached to it , as contrasted with the magnesian phosphate .
Even one of the most recent writers on the urinie gives the following description of the physical characters of deposits of phosphate of lime in urine:- " Deposits of phosphate of lime , " he states , " 'as usually occurring in the urine , and mixed with magnesia , are always white and amorphous , under the microscope appearing in granules , sometimes of a greenish tinge , which exert a refracting action upon light .
Crystallized deposits of this substance have not been observed .
" I now propose to show , first , that there is a crystalline deposit , the crystals composing which will be described hereafter , which does really consist of phosphate of lime ; second , that it is of frequent occurrence in human urine ; and third , that it is of greater pathological importance than the deposits of triple phosphate .
I would first remark that I have for years been acquainted with the fact of the occurrence of crystalline phosphate of lime in the urine , and I have referred to it in The Lancet ' of 1853 , and also elsewhere .
I should now remark , however , that the statement made by me as to the composition of the crystals , has hitherto been based upon their qualitative analysis only , and therefore was not so completely conclusive and satisfactory as could be desired .
Until recently I had not made any quantitative analyses ; these I have since been enabled to perform , and I now furniish the results of the chemical examination of four samples of the deposit .
First Sanmple.-Filtered from the urine of twenty-four hours ; mixed , as ascertained in the first instance by means of the microscope , with a very minute quantity of triple phosphate .
Bibasic phosphate of magnesia ... ... ... .
0.15 Bibasic phosphate of lime .
I 85 2-00 Second Sample.-Filtered from urine after the lapse of a day or two ; mixed with a small quantity of triple phosphate .
Bibasic phosphate of magnesia. .
047 Bibasic phosphate of lime. .
6 18 6-65 Third Samnple.-From urine of twenty-four hours , after the lapse of several days .
Admixed with much triple phosphate , as shown first by the microscope , and afterwards by the chemical analysis .
Bibasic phosphate of magnesia ... ... ... .
4-30 Bibasic phosphate of lime ... ... ... ... . .
5-41 Four-th Sample.-Separated from six ounces of fresh urine .
Deposit very pure .
Bibasic phosphate of lime. .
1.96 No phosphate of magnesia .
Now the admixture of the phosphate of magnesia in the first three samnples was due solely to the fact that the phosphate of lime , deposited at first in the pure state , was allowed to remain in the urilne until decomposition had commenced , and the phosphate of magnesia and ammonia had , in consequence , become formed .
Deposits of phosphate of lime are sometimes contaminated from the same cause with carbonate and oxalate of lime .
These analyses are therefore conclusive as to the composition of this earthy phosphate .
In order to show that no error has been committed in them , I here append the process adopted .
That the deposit in question really consisted of a phosphate , was first repeatedly determined by the action of a solution of nitrate of silver ; the crystals when touched with this reagent assumred a bright golden yellow colour .
After having been separated and washed in distilled water , the phosphate was ignited to free it from animal matter , urea , &amp;c. , and weighed .
It was then dissolved in hydrochloric acid ; amlmonia was added until a permanent precipitate formed ; this was redissolved by the addition of acetic acid .
First the lime was precipitated from the solution by oxalate of ammonia , and afterwards the magnesia as follows : chloride of ammonium was added , then ammonia in slight excess , and lastly , phosphate of soda .
The oxalate of lime formed was converted into carbonate of lime in the ordinary manner , and the phosphate of ammonia and magnesia into the pyro-phosphate of magnesia ; these were then weighed separately , and the amounts of the bibasic phosphate of lime were determined by the usual calculations .
The results obtained corresponded very closely with the origiinal weigltts of the igyonited phosphates subjected to analysis3 The an alyses , therefore , show that the crystallized phosphate of lime is a tribasic phosphate containing two atoms of lime , and most probably one of water .
Form of the Cry8tals .
The size , form , and arrangement of the crystals of phosphate of lime , as they occur in human urine , vary greatly , but the peculiarities are in all cases sufficiently characteristic to allow of the ready identification of this phosphate by means of the microscope .
The crystals are either single or aggregated , most frequently the latter , forming glomeruli or rosettes , more or less perfect ( figs. 1 , 2 , 3 ) .
Sometirnes they are small and needle-like , and then they frequently form by their crossing and union at right angles , glomeruli or spherules ( fig. 3 ) .
Sometimes the crystals are thin and flat , having oblique Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
or pointed terminiations ( fig. 2 ) .
Very frequently , however , they are thick , and more or less wedge-shaped , and united by their narrow extremities so as to form more or less complete portions of a circle ( fig. 1 ) ; the free larger ends of the crystals are usually somewhat oblique , and the more perfect crystals present a six-sided facette .
I have never yet met with these crystals having both ends perfect , owing , I believe , to the tendency which they have to crystallize from a centre in rosettes .
The principal modifications which I have met with in the size , form , and arrangement of these crystals , are well shown in the eleven drawings which accompany this communication* .
When these crystals are kept in the dry state for a long time , they not unfrequently break down and crumble into powder .
The late Dr. Golding Bird , in his work on 'Urinary Deposits , ' has given a representation of some crystals which he has denominated " penniform , " describing them as consisting of a variety of the magnesian phosphate ; the crystals figured do , however , undoubtedly represent a modification of those of phosphiate of limit .
They are represented in figure 4 , taken from Dr. Bird 's original specimen .
Although I have elsewhere pointed out this error , most recent writers on the urine still persist in describing these crystals as a variety of the phosphate of ammonia and magnesia .
On the Frequency of their Occurr ence .
I find , as already stated , that phosphate of lime in the form of crystals is of much more frequent occurreniee in human urine than the triple phosphate , excluding those cases of the presence of the latter phosphate which are due to the decomposition of the urea of the urine subsequent to its emission .
I have met with deposits of crystallized phosphate of lime in some hundreds of urines , and in many different cases ; it is therefore not a little remarkable , from the frequency of its oceurrence and the peculiarities presented by the crvstals , that it should have been so long overlooked .
The muicroscope therefore furnishes us in most cases with the readv means of detecting the presenee of deposits of phosphate of lime , as of so many other urinary deposits .
Characters of Urine depositing Crystallized Phosphate of Lime .
The urine from which phosphate of lime is deposited is usually pale , but occasionally it is high-coloured ; the quantity passed is large , and the calls to void it frequent , more or less uneasiness and smarting being occasioned by its passage , at the neck of the bladder and along the course of the urethra : its specific gravity varies greatly ; taking the whole quantity passed in twenty-four hours , it is usually below the average , nevertheless the animal matter and urea are absolutely in excess .
It is generally feebly acid , often decidedly so when first voided , the greater pairt of the phosphate of lime becoming deposited while the urine still retains some degree of acidity ; it however speedily becomes alkaline , owing probably to the excess of nucus contained in it .
Sometimes the crystals of phosphate of lime are thrown down from the urinie before its escape from the bladder ; ordinarily , however , the urine is bright and clear when passed , and the crystals are not formed until some time after it has been voided .
In collecting this phosphate for alnalysis , the object being to procure it in as pure a state as possible and as free from phosphate of ammonia and magnesia , oxalate and carbonate of lime , it should be separated from the urine very soon after it has become deposited , and before decomposition has had time to set in .
On the Pathological Inportance of Deposits of Phosphate of Lime in Human Urine .
Of the pathological importance of excess of phosphate of lime in the urine not a doubt can be elntertained , but certain reasons and facts may be advanced to show that deposits of that phosphate have a deeper pathological significance than those of the phosphate of ammonia and maglnesia .
The proof of this is the more necessary , since writers on the urine are in the habit of describing , as well as of treating , deposits of the earthy phosphates collectively , and without distinguishing between them : this course was natural enough so long as they were unacquainted with the fact that deposits of phosphate of lime in the state of crystals are of frequent occurrence , or so long as they mistook them for a variety of the ammonio-magnesian phosphate .
One reason why we should be disposed to attach greater importance to the excess of the calcareous than the magnesian phosphate , is that most of the phosphoric acid of this last phosphate , and all the maagnesia , is derived from without , being contained in the various articles consuLimed as food ; while for the phosphate of lime , we have in the system-in the teeth and bones , and also in the nitrogenous tissues-sources containing some pounds weight of this phosphate .
That the osseous system is subject to disintegration is certain , and that the exteint and rapidity of this differ remarkably in differenit ceases is equally so. .
This is shown by ) the simple fact Mlone of the early and rapid decay of the teeth in maniy persons .
For this genieral reason therefore only , we should , a pi-iori , be disposed to attach greater importance to the occurrence of deposits of phosphate of limne than those of phosphate of magnesia .
Other facts tending to confirmn this view are , first , that while deposits of phosphate of lime are frequently met with , those of phosphate of magnesia ( not the ammonio-magnesian phosphate ) are exceedingly rare ; and second , that the calcareous is of more difficult solubility than the magnesian phosphate .
This last circumstance explains probably why phosphate of lime falls as a deposit from acid urine , while phosphate of magnesia remains in solution .
The particular or special reasons for regarding deposits of phosplhate of lime as of more moment than those of the triple phosphate , are derived from direct pathological observation .
I have observed that when this deposit occurs , it is very apt to be persistent ; and when it has disappeared , to return whenever the health is reduced from any cause .
I have also noticed that , when it is persistent , it is usually associated with marked impairment of the health , and this often where organic disease does not exist .
The prominent symptoms in one case of calcareous phosphatic deposit which I have had under observation for some years , were , -great disorder of the digestive organs , frequent and distressing headaches , occasional vomiting , debility , emaciation , great irritability of the nervous system , sexual powers weak , pulse slow and feeble , skin cold , urine in excess , of rather low specific gravity , acid when passed , but soon becoming alkaline , micturition frequent , with irritation at neck of bladder and in the course of the urethra : teeth much decayed .
It should be stated that there is in this case a very slight tendency to paralysis of the right leg , as shown by an occasional sensation of coldness in the limb , and blight deficiency of power in it at times only .
This symptom is , however , by no means a constant or necessary one in such cases .
If these views of the pathology of phosphate of lime be correct , we should expect to find an excess of that phosphate in the urine in great and rapid waste of tissue , during the rapid decay of the teeth , andi in cases of mollities ossium .
That there is an excess of the calcareous phosphate in the urine in these cases , is showni alike by observation and analysis .
It is obvious from this inperfect sketelt that muheh remains to be effected in regard to the pathology of phosphate of lime ; but now that the frequency of its occurrence in human urine as a crystallized deposit is made known , its pathology , apart from that of the triple phosphate , will no doubt be specially considered .
It will be apparenit from the following quotation , that the late Dr. GoldiDg Bird regarded deposits of phosphate of lime as of more consequence than those of the triple phosphate:- " The pathological state of the system accompanying the appearance of deposits of phosphate of lime is analogous to that occurring with the triple phosphate ; indeed , as has beeni already observed , they often , and in alkaline urine always , occur simultaneously .
So far as my own experience has extended , when the deposit has consisted chiefly of the calcareous salt , the patients have appeared to present more marked evidence of exhaustion , and of the previous existence of some drain on the nervous system , than when the triple salt alone existed , unless its source is strictly local .
" It should be remembered that these remarks of Dr. Bird refer to deposits of phosphate of lime in the granular state , and not to the crystalline deposits , with the occurrence of which he was unacquainted .
I have already stated that , according to my experience , the granular calcareous phosphatic deposits are much more rare than the crystalline .
It follows from these observations and investigations : First .
That deposits of crystallized phosphate of lime are of frequent occurrence in human urine , much more so , indeed , than those of the amorphous or granular form of that phosphate .
Second .
That the crystals present well-marked and highly characteristic forms , whereby the idenitification of this phosphate by means of the microscope is rendered easy and certaini .
Third .
That there is good reason to believe that deposits of phosphate of lime are of greater pathological importance than those of the phosphate of ammonia and magnesia .

