An Account of a vegetable Wax from Brazil .
By William Thomas Brand , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 9 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 261 .
] The substance here examined by Mr. Brand , had been sent to Lord Grenville from Rio de Janleiro , and by him given to Sir Joseph Banks , in the hope that when its properties were investigated , it might be found to answer the purposes of bees ' wax , and become a valuable article of commerce between Brazil and this country .
It is said to be the produce of a tree of slow growth , called by the natives Carnauba , and growing in the most northerly part of the Portuguese settlements ; and the same tree also produces a gum as food for man , and another substance employed to fatten poultry .
The substance examined by Mr. Brand resembles that procured from the Ceroxylon Andicola described by Humboldt .
The Ceroxylon , however , is a tall palm-tree , growing about 1000 toises or more above the level of the sea ; but the Brazilian plant is a low tree , and grows in a country where it does not appear that there are any mountains .
By analysis also , these products differ entirely ; for that of Humboldt , according to Vauquelin 's analysis , consists of two thirds resin and one third wax ; while that from Brazil is entirely wax , without any perceptible quantity of resin .
Mr. Brand received this wax in the state of a coarse pale-grey powder , soft to the touch , mixed with pieces of bark , and other impurities , amounting to nearly 40 per cent. It melts at 206 ?
Fahrenheit ; and if then purified by straining through linen , it acquires a dirty green colour ; when cold it is hard and brittle , and its specific gravity is 980 .
In water this wax is wholly insoluble ; but by boiling some hours , it communicates a brownish hue to the water , and its peculiar smell .
Alcohol also has no effect on it when cold .
Nevertheless , by the assistance of heat , two fluid ounces dissolve ten grains ; but eight of 'these are deposited again as the solution becomes cool , and the remainder may be precipitated by addition of water .
Ether dissolves a small proportion at the temperature of 60 ?
; and when boiled upon it , two fluid ounces dissolve thirty grains , but deposit twenty-six upon cooling .
Fixed oils unite with it very readily by the assistance of heat , and the compounds are in general perfectly soluble in ether , which appears owing to the solubility of these oils , although they are not generally supposed to be soluble .
According to Mr. Brande 's experiments , four fluid ounces of ether dissolve 1 fluid ounce of oil of almonds , 1 fluid ounce of olive oil , 2-I fluid ounces of linseed oil ; and with castor oil it unites in any proportion .
In alcohol , having the specific gravity of 820 , castor oil is also perfectly soluble ; but the other fixed oils are very sparingly soluble ; and even castor oil is scarcely soluble in alcohol that has the specific gravity of 840 , unless camphor be added to it .
But even this addition will not render other fixed oils soluble in the same menstruum .
When the wax was boiled in a solution of caustic potash , it communicated to the liquor a slight rose colour , but was not dissolved , nor altered in its properties .
The effects of a solution of pure soda were precisely similar , hut pure ammonia had scarely any effect on the wax .
By boiling in nitric acid , the colour of the wax is converted into a deep yellow ; and after being washed and cooled , it is found to have become more brittle and harder than before ; but neither the fusibility nor the inflammability of the wax are impaired , even by the alternate action of acids and of alkalies upon it .
If the wax be spread thin upon glass and exposed to the action of light , its colour is rendered paler ; but the author has not yet succeeded in bleaching it effectually .
Sulphuric acid changes the colour of the wax to a pale brown ; and if heat be applied , the decomposition usual with such substances takes place , with extrication of sulphurous acid gas , and decomposition of charcoal .
Though cold acetic acid has very little action on it , yet when boiled upon it for a very long time , it appeared to have rendered it nearly white ; but when the wax was afterwards washed with water and fused , it resumed its former colour .
When it is fused in oxymuriatic gas , muriatic acid and water are formed , and charcoal is deposited .
Though Mr. Brande 's attempts to bleach this wax have not hitherto completely succeeded , yet since it has been rendered nearly white by the usual method of exposure to light after the action of nitric acid upon it , there seems no reason to suppose that it might not be perfectly bleached by exposure for a sufficient length of time .
With respect to its combustion in the form of canldles , the author 's trials have been very satisfactory .
When the wick is duly proportioned , the combustion is as perfect and uniform as that of any other wax ; and when about one sixth or one tenth of tallow is added to it , the brittleness which this wax has in its natural state is removed , without communicating to it any unpleasant odour , or impairing the brilliancy of the flame .

