III .
" On the Existence of Amorphous Starch in a new Tuberaceous Fungus .
" By FREDERICK CURREY , Esq. , M.A. Communicated by JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , M.D. , F.R.S. Received December 17 , 1857 .
Amorphous starch ( including under that term all starch not in the form of the ordinary starch-granule ) is rare in the vegetable world .
Until the present year Schleiden was the only botanist by whom it had been noticed , and his observations have been doubted by Sanio , Caspary , and Schenk .
He ( Schleiden ) states ( Grundziige , i. 181 ) that he has seen amorphous starch in the form of a thin pasty layer in the cells of the albumen of Cardamomum minus , in Sarsaparilla , and in the rhizome of Carex arenaria .
Sanio* has just published the result of some experiments made by him upon the cells of the epidermis of Gagea lutea .
Upon applying a solution of iodine to these cells , he observed a fine flocculent blue precipitate in their interior .
The blue colour was confined to the fluid contents of the cells , the primordial utricle and the nucleus becoming yellow under the iodine .
Another observer , Dr. Schenk* , has lately noticed the occurrence of starch in a state of solution in the epidermal cells of the stem , leaves , and other parts of Ornithogalum nutans and Ornithogalum lanceolatum .
These cells were found to contain ( besides nuclei ) a thick homogeneous fluid .
Tincture of iodine coloured the fluid first wine-red , then violet , and finally indigo-blue ; and the fluid at the same time lost its homogeneous nature , and became finely granular and flocculent .
The above mentioned are all cases of phaenogamic plants .
The Fungi have hitherto been considered wholly devoid of starch , unless , perhaps , the case mentioned by Schachtt may be an exception .
He states that he observed the myceliumt of a small mouldfungus become clear blue under the action of iodine .
He could not , however , ascertain whether the colour was in the membrane or in the contents , and if the former , it is as likely that the colour ( being clear blue ) arose from the presence of cellulose in a young condition , as from starchy .
Mohl , in his treatise on the vegetable cell , speaks of starch as probably existing in all plants except the Fungi .
A special interest , therefore , attaches to any plant of the latter tribe , in which starch can be shown to exist , and such a plant has lately come under my observation .
The fungus in question , which is interesting not only for its chemical composition , but as constituting a new genus in the family of the Tuberacei , occurred in the spring of the present year , growing gregariously upon fragments of wood on the sands by the sea-shore at Sketty , near Swansea .
To the naked eye each individual specimen presents the appearance of a small , round , somewhat flattened body , of a dull yellow colour , and with an unevenness of surface caused by numberless convolutions of the coat of the fungus , which require the aid of a lens in order to be clearly seen .
The diameter of the largest specimen does not much exceed the 1-8th of an inch .
Externally there is a strong resemblance to small specimens of Dacrymyces deliquescens , or perhaps a nearer still to the truffle described by Tulasne , in the " Fungi hypogeei , " under the name of Hydnobolites cerebriformis .
This resemblance , however , is only superficial , as will be seen by the following description of the plant when examined microscopically .
The coat of the fungus consists of a convoluted membrane of considerable thickness , formed of several layers of cells , the outer of which are large and rounded , the inner long and flat .
In most of the specimens the contents of the coat consist mainly of an innumerable multitude of naked spores ; but in almost all , a careful examination will detect , here and there , isolated sacs or asci containing sporidia ; and a few of the plants which were in a younger state than the rest exhibited asci in abundance , showing satisfactorily that the fungus must be classed with the Ascomycetes , -not with the Gasteromycetes .
There is no doubt that the asci are absorbed at an early period , and the sporidia then form a dense mass .
It is exceedingly difficult , from the crowded state of the contents , to trace out the manner in which the asci originate ; but I have satisfied myself that they spring at intervals from threads proceeding from the inner surface of the thick external membrane .
Fig. 4 represents one of these threads with the asci springing from it , magnified 315 diameters .
The asci themselves are broadly clavate , with a very short stem , and are frequently , if not usually , drawn out at the apex into a sort of point , as shown in figs. 2 , 3 and 4 .
The sporidia are extremely curious .
They are globular and colourless , and furnished with long delicate sharp rays projecting from the surface in every direction .
Each sporidiuml is furnished with an internal nucleus , or probably oil-drop ( sometimes broken up into several ) , which varies somewhat in size , and is sometimes in the centre of the ' globe , sometimes placed eccentrically .
Their form will be seen by reference to fig. 5 .
The average diameter of the sporidia is about ~Q- ?
th of an inch .
Upon placing a thin section of one of the plants in water under the microscope , and adding a drop of solution of iodine , the sporidia in the course of a few seconds assume a more or less dark purple colour , precisely similar to that produced in starch by the same reagent ; and not only are the sporidia themselves thus affected , but the fluid surrounding them is tinged of an intense purple colour for some distance round the mass of sporidia .
This latter colouring is doubtless produced by the effect of the iodine upon a viscid matter which surrounds the sporidia , and which may either originate in the disintegration of the asci , or may be an independent secretion .
There can be little doubt , I think , that this viscid matter is starch in a state of solution .
It might be taken for dextrine , but that it differs from that substance in assuming a purple colour under iodine .
The sporidia , although coloured by iodine in the same manner as starch-granules* , do not exhibit any cross when viewed by polarized light .
The small size of the Fungi precludes the possibility of procuring a sufficient quantity of the viscid matter to test its effect upon the plane of polarization .
I find the sporidia unaffected by boiling water or even by long soaking in sulphuric acid , in which respect they differ from starchgranules .
The purple colour , however ( as is the case with starch ) , disappears under the action of heat or of alcohol .
I have named the plant Amnylocarpus encephaloides , for reasons sufficiently obvious from the above description .
Its systematic position is certainly with the Tuberacei , but it has no near allies .
The only plant resembling it in structure is Endogone , but it is doubtful whether the vesicles of Endogone be spores or asci .
If the latter , the affinity with Endogone would be close .
In conclusion I may mention , that in a very late number of the 'Annales des Sciences Naturelles ' ( 4 serie , vol. vi .
p. 318 ) , which has reached me since my first observations on the above fungus , M. Tulasne remarks , that in several species of Erysiphe the tips of the radicular appendages are tinged blue by solution of iodine , and that he has observed the same effect produced upon the matter contained in the summits of the asci , and upon the mucous envelope of the sporidia of several species of Sphceria .
It would seem , therefore , that the absence of starch can no longer be considered as characteristic of the Fungi , and that the existence of that substance in an amorphous state may be considered as satisfactorily proved .
DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES .
Fig. 1 .
Vertical section of the coat of the Fungus , showing the successive layers of cells , the innermost of which give off threads into the interior of the plant , X 315 diameters .
Figs. 2 and 3 .
Asci with sporidia , X 415 .
In fig. 3 the sporidia are only partially matured .
Fig. 4 .
The extremity of a thread showing the mode of origin of the asci , X 315 .
Fig. 5 .
Free sporidia , X 415 .

