PROCEEDINGS OP THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
November 15 , 1894 .
Sir JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
Professor J. V. Jones and Mr. R. Lydekker were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
Professor D. E. Hughes , Professor A. B. W. Kennedy , and Professor A. YV .
Rucker were by ballot elected Auditor 's of the Treasurer 's accounts on the part of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Further Observations on the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures .
Part 2 .
The Roots of Catamites ?
By W. C. Williamson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Emeritus Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester ; and D. H. Scott , M.A. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Honorary Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received October 31 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) Until quite recently our knowledge of the adventitious roots of Catamites was limited to their external form and position on the stem .
Though the structure of the stem itself was so well known , we remained in complete ignorance of the internal organisation of the roots .
VOL. LVII .
B On the Fossil Plants of the .
[ Nov. 15 , M. Renault , in 1885 , expressed the opinion that the fossils originally described by Dr. Williamson under the name of in which the structure is well-preserved , were the roots of ( our Catamites ) and Calamodendron .
He has now found conclusive proof of the truth of this hypothesis , and in his latest workf he gives numerous figures of roots , with Astromyelon structure , arising as appendages on the stems of Catamites , Bornia , and Calamodendron .
It therefore became necessary to reinvestigate our English specimens of Astromyelon Williamsonis ( from which the French fossils are said to be specifically distinct ) in order to ascertain their true nature .
A specimen in the Williamson collection shows clearly three appendages with the typical structure of , arising from a main axis which shows structural features characteristic of a Calamitean stem .
M. Renault 's conclusion may , therefore , safely be \#166 ; extended to the English specimens .
The structure of the fossils hitherto known as Astromyelon \sonis has been examined in detail , with a view to determining their morphological nature .
It is found that they present , in all respects , the characteristics of roots .
, so far as these can be recognised in fossil plants .
In the larger specimens , such as have been found in direct connection with the stem of Catamites , there is a well-marked medulla , which is surrounded by a ring of primary xylem-strands , varying in number , from twenty-five downwards .
The development of each xylem-strand was centripetal , for the spiral tracheides lie at the \#166 ; external angle of each strand .
In well-preserved specimens , at an early stage of development , the primary phloem can be recognised , alternating with the primary strands of wood .
These anatomical features are characteristic of the roots of all vascular plants .
The secondary wood , which has been observed at all stages of development , agrees in structure with that of the stem of Catamites .
In favourable cases the cambium can be seen , and secondary phloem has also been found .
The mode of branching is shown to be endogenous .
There is soihe evidence that these organs had a double endodermis , as is the case in tne roots of the recent Equiseta .
At the exterior of the cortex ( which always had a lacunar zone ) a protective epidermoidal layer was formed , probably arising from the * See Williamson , " Organisation of Fossil Plants of Coal-Measures , Parts IX and XII , " 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1878 and 1883 ; Renault , " Genre Astromyelon , " * Ann. des Sci. Geologiques , ' vol. 17 , 1885 , and ' Mem. de la Soc. des Sci. Nat. do \#166 ; Sa6ne et Loire , ' 1885 .
T ' Flore Foseile d'Autun , ' \amp ; c. Part 2 .
1893 .
1394 .
] On the Ascent of cells next below the actual epidermis .
This feature occurs in many recent roots .
It is shown incidentally that the doubts expressed by Messrs. Hick and Cash as to the identification of their " Myriophylloides " with " Astromyelon " are unfounded .
A section of the type-specimen of " Myriophylloides " has been re-examined , and its structure is shown to be identical with that of the other specimens of " Astromyelon .
" The numerous minute rootlets , associated with the larger roots , have been carefully examined .
Many of these rootlets are without any pith , but they are in other respects identical with the typical specimens , with which they are connected by an unbroken series of intermediate forms .
There are also instances in which rootlets are found inserted upon the medullate roots .
The conclusions at which the authors arrive are the following:\#151 ; 1 .
The fossils hitherto described under the name of Astromyelon Williamsonis are the adventitious roots of Galamites .
2 .
Their structure is in all respects that characteristic of roots , as is proved by the centripetal primary wood , the alternating strands of primary wood and phloem , the endogenous mode of branching , and the absence of nodes .
3 .
The smallest specimens , with little or no medulla , represent the finest branches of the same roots , of which the large medullate forms are the relatively main axes .
The paper is illustrated by micro-photographs from the actual specimens , and also by camera-lucida drawings .
II .
" On the Ascent of Sap .
" By Henry H. Dixon , B.A. Assistant to the Professor of Botany , Trinity College , Dublin , and J. Joly , M.A. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received October 16,1894 .
( Abstract .
) Strasburger 's experiments have eliminated the direct action of living protoplasm from the problem of the ascent of sap , and have left only the tracheal tissue , as an organised structure , and the transpiration-activity of the leaf , wherein to seek an explanation of the phenomenon .
The authors investigate the capability of the leaf to transpire against excessive atmospheric pressures .
In these experiments the leaf was found able to bring forward its water meniscuses against the highest pressures attained and freely transpire .
Whether the draught upon the sap established at the leaf during transpiration be regarded as purely capillary or not , these experiments lead the authors to believe that it alone is quite adequate to effect the eleva-

