]\gt ; xxi priority of his resuIts : it is partly to nature .
says of him : \mdash ; " " His motto has always been ' esse quam videri , ' and I do not any one to whom it fvould be more repulsive to engagc in a personal contest by iming for himself a particle of honour or of money more than was spontaneously conceded .
He would be apt to take for his model the patriarch Isaac , who , when Philistincs imed a well which he had dug , went on and dug another , and when they claimed that , too , went on and dug a third an description of the man the tide of whose gellius was ' ' Too full for sound or foa , \ldquo ; Some account of his work , some esbimate of its character , some iindioation of the original contributions made by him to his science , may not improperly be given herc .
It is , of course , impossible to prcdict what his permanent influence will be upon mathematics , what opinion coming generations of workers will hold of : certainly , by his own contemporaries , he was deemed one of the greatest thematicians the lvolld has seen .
Bertrand , Darboux , and Glaisher have compared him to Euler , alike for his , his analytical power , and , not least , for his prolifiu production of new views and fertile theories .
There is hardly a subject in the whole of pure mathematics at which he has not worked .
Some new subjects their existence to him ; to others he has made very definite , so that their boundaries have been ] arged often to an mous extent ; there are few upon which he has not left the of his genius .
In sevoral of the notices that appeared at his death he described as a great explorer .
Such he undoubtedly was , but he was more .
He not merely discovered new countries but he also opened them up , so that others were able to enter into some possession of those ions without the difficuIties that he had overcome .
And if the metaphor may be carried further , he had the reslessness of the explorer : he could not long remain satisfied with an achievement concluded , but must try his fortune again and elsewhere .
opinions have been expressed as to Cayley 's style ; the variations are largely due to preconceived of what matical paper should be .
It cel.tainIy is not easy to skim of his any attcmpt to do so leads to an inadequate estimate of it usually establishes .
It is nob difficult to road one of his pape ] cvcn to grasp the contents well , provided be devoted to it , because difficulties that occur are completely solved , and nothing lies xxii in the background to cause doubt or suggest incompleteness .
Ho has been well described by Glaisher as an unequalled master of analytical processes ; it is in algebraical manipulation that his strength and his facility stand out in clear view .
His success in this direction was achieved by a ill that cannot be explained by describing it as due to acquired knowledge , practice , or to lon consideration and patient selection .
It was rather an instinct for the management of the most complicated processes , and the way in which he controls the most elaborate calculations is sometimes little short of extraordinary .
As regards his methods , he does not seem to have cast about so as to choose one rather than another .
As soon as he had thought of any method the possible effectiveness of which he could settle almost intuitively one 's best things are done in five minutes he once said to me , in mation of the satisfaction I was expressing at the ruitfulness of an idea that had occurred to me unexpectedly ) , the rest was the reise of his powers .
Among ths methods he preferred , especially during the last twenty-five years of his life , was that of verification ; in his hands it proved a weapon of great force .
deed , only less remarkable than his algebraical skill , was the insight which enabled him to preserve the exact equivalence of all the equations in any particular process , so that he could have reversed each process merely by reversing the steps as they were made , and could have proceeded to the required theorem from the initial expression of an ] gebraical fact .
Numerous instances of this qualityin his work could be adduced ; it wilI be sufficient to refer to some parts of his paper* ' ' On the centro-surface of an ellipsoid But though Cayley was specially happy in the treatment of alge- braical developments , estimate of his genius would be obtained by supposing that he was almost entirely an analyst .
Much of his thinking , not a little of his writing , is completely geometrical ; and his ibutionH to line.geometry , his introduction of the Absolute into geometry , his continued recurrence to the methods in pure geometry invented by Poncelet and Chasles , should be sufficient to range him among geometricians .
Moreover , even in strictly work , the synthetic element is often not far away though it does not always appear on the surface .
In this connexion an acute suggestion , made by Salmon and perhaps based upon his remembrance of their mathematical correspondence that lasted throngh many years , is rmed by one of the Notes Cayley himself added at the end of the second volume of his 'Collected Mathematical Papers .
' An enquiry sometimes begins by a comparatively easy problem which , when solved , leads to wider inferences ; * C. M. vol. 8 , No. 520 : 'Camb .
Phil. Trans vol. 12 1873 ) , pp. 319\mdash ; 365 .
xxiii that , uItimafely in ths development , considerable generalisations effected .
Now the usllal writer , in pubJishing the results of such an enquiry , draws them up in a sequence that partly marks ordex .
of their connected discovery : and , in doing so , he makes his vork easier for his readers .
But Cayley not the usual writer .
When he had reached his most advanced genel.ions he proceeded to them ectly by some method other , though he seldom gave clue by which had first been obtained : a which not tend to make his papers easy ding .
An lnstnce of the fact occurs*in his ' Memoir on the Theory of ices , ' where proves that a matrix satisfies an algebraical equation of its ; he proves it by vel.iIication in simple cases , but he ives no clue as to his line of .
An instance of the method occurs a note added to one of his papers , where he says that the general equations characteristic of covariants and invariants of binary ; were initially by relation of the atic and discriminant to equations .
In .
bhe paper he linear transformati on as connected with the tive perty and deliues a as a function satisfy these two equations .
His literary is direct , simple and clear .
His legal trainiog had an influence , not merely upon his mode of arrangement but upon his expression ; { he result is that his papers are severe and escnt a curions contrast to the luxuriant which ades so many of Sy lvestel.'S papers .
He used to prepal.e his work for as soon be had his ations in any subject far enough for his immediate pnrpose .
He found it an ) mattel to do this part of his work , and thus differed widely in experience from those to whom the preparation of a paper is laborious even when the results to be incorporated have been obtained .
As a matter of , he took the course of sayin what he had to say in a cleal and simple manner , his mind upon the substance and out of his way in order to secure beautiful form for the prcsclltatiou of results .
Yet not infrequently his papers so admirably written that they satisfy the exacting critics ; thus it is perhaps not too to affirm that his ' Sixth Memoir on Quantics ' could not be more attractive character due , ever , to the tendency of his method and to his results , but not acquired by any effort specially devoted to elaboration of clear expression .
, a paper once written out was promptly sent for publication ; this practice he ' C. M. vol. 2 , No. 152 , pp. 482 , 483 ; 'Phil Trans. ' 'O .
M. vol. 2 , p. 6(K ) .
' C. M. vol. 2 , No. 158 ; 'Phil .
Trans. ' ( 1859 ) , pp. 61\mdash ; 90 .
xxiv ined this life .
He undoubtedly formed projects for the immediabe ; thus to the seoond edition*of his ' Treatise on Elliptic Functions ' he intended to add a couple of chapters which , ever , remained unwritten solely for the reason that all such projects were carried into effect only about the time when the need arose .
The conseque11ce is that he has left few arrears of unfinished or unpublished papers ; his work has been given by himself to the world .
Only one other remark as to the form of his papers need be made .
Readers must be struck with the number of exact references he makes to other writers .
It was a practice about which he had very decided opinions : he wished not merely to make honourable acknowledgment of indebtedness but also to give indications of the history of the subject .
In the latter particular he was always careful to insert in the reference the year in which the book or the paper had eared ; and he steadily urged others to insert dates in their references .
Cayley made additions to every important subject that lies within the rttnge of pure mathematics .
Their importance and their amount have varied in diiferent subjects ; thus on analytical geometry his writings have a dominating influence : while on the general theory of functions , though he knew the subject , he has left little mark , for he concerned himseIf chiefly with details such as the solution of more or less special problems in conformal representation .
His papers in general have such value that he is the author most frequently quoted by the great body of current mathematicians .
full record of what he has done in pure mathematics could be made only by lvriting its history during the last half century ; all that is here attempted consists of some brief indications of a selection among his more obviously important contributions to mathematical knowledge .
One of the subjects lvith which Cayley 's name will probably be most closely associated is the theory of invariance .
It is easy to cite simple cases of what is implipd by an invariantive function : two will suffice .
It is known that , in solving an ordinary algebraical equation with coefficients , a certain functional combination of these coefficients ( called the discriminant ) must vanish in order that two roots of the ation may be equal ; for example , the equation has equal roots if ( and only if ) the quantity vanishes .
When the variable is transformed from to by a relation , where are , then evidently two values of corresponding to the two equal values of , are equal .
When is eliminated from the equation by means of the assumed relation , a new quadratic arises aving y for its variable ; let ib be was published four after his death ; earlier sheets had tho benefit of his revision .
XAV where a depend upon and .
rfhe two values of determined by this equation are equal if ( and only if ) the quantity .
vanishes .
But equality of the two valncs of depends upon and is determined by the equality of the two values of , the latter equality ] secured if bhe qnantiby vanishesf f It follows that the vanishing .
of either of the quantities and \mdash ; brequires the vanishing of the ; and it is therefore inferred that , when neither of them vanishes , one of them contalns the other a factor .
When the actual calculation is made , it is found that the product of and , the latter Leiug a that depends solely upon the tl.ansforming relation .
ently it appears that a combination of the coefficicnts in the tion exists , such that when the equation is transformed by any relation of the type indicated and exactly same combination of ncw coefficients is constructed , the two combinations are equal to one another save as to a factor depending solely upon the transforming relation .
Snch a combination of the coefficients is called an iant .
Again , it is known that every curve ( of higher ) two ) po sesses a numbel .
of points where a tangent to the curve not mercly touches it but , having contact of one degree closer , crosses : and it is found that all these points , called points of inflexion , also lie upon another curve uniquely derived from the { irst .
When the are represented by means of equations , the statement is that points of inflexion of a are given as the intersections of curve with a curve , the latter equation being uniquely derived .
Now suppose that the axes , to which the curves been referred , are to another system , so that new -ordinatos are connected with the former -ordinates by relations new equation , obtained by eliminating and between these relations and , will now represent the curve .
The thus made does not affect the geometrical properties of the curve ; its points of inflexion are still given as its rsections with the curve .
But tlJe points of inflexiou of the represcllted by are the intersections of this curve with another curve represented by , an equation derived from in ctly the same way as is derived from .
It therefore appears that the associated curve cuts the given curve in precisely the same points as the associated curve , a result that the associated curves are the same .
] been derived from ; but actual calculntion that , if clnlions between and be used to from , tho resulting equation is ; in other ords , the xxvi and transform the equation , derived from into the equation , derived in the same way from Moreover , as in the former case by direct ealcuIation , it is found thab , a specially consbructed nction of and the coefficients in is divisible by , the same function of and the coefficients in ; the quotieut a quantity depending again only upon the constants in the transforming relations .
Consequently it appears that a bination of the coefficients and the variables in the original equation exists such that , when the equation is transformed by ) of relations of tho type indicated , and exactly the same combination of the new coefficients and the new variables is constructed , the two combinations are equal to one another save as to a factor dependent solely upon the transforming relations .
Such a combination of the coefficients and the variables is called a covariant .
The first notice of such a property appears to have been made by Lagran .
And discussed the invariance of the discriminants of certain expressions when the ]atter are subjected to linear formations .
Again , Boole in 1841 had shown that this invariantive property belon to all discriminants , and he gave a method of dedtlCing some other functions of this kind .
Boolo 's paper suggested to Cayley a much more general subject\mdash ; the permanence of invariantive \mdash ; so that he set himself question of finding " " all the derivatives of any number of functions which have the property of preserving their form unaltered after any linear transformation of the variables The first set of results obtained by his investigations ated to invariants ; they appeared in his famous paper , * On the Theory of Linear Transformations , ' published half a century ago .
The second set of results related to covarianfs ; they appeared in the paper , 'On Linear Transformations , ' published in the succeeding year .
In these two papers Cayley demonstrated the general existence of a number of functions , both invariants and covariants ( at first be called them hyperdeberminants ) which preserve their form under linear transformation .
These discoveries of Cayley establish him as the founder of is sometimes modein algcbra , sometimes invariants and coval'iants , sometimes theory of forms ; the origination of the theory is incontestably his , and it is universally ascribed to him .
A discovery of chis general importance and complete novelty soon attracted the attention of other workers .
It is not too much to say that the subsequent investigations long absorbed the active intel'est of many mathematicians , and , as a result , the theory has influenced all * ' C. M. vol. 1 , No. 13 ; 'Camb .
Math. Jour vol. 4 ( 1845 ) , pp. 193\mdash ; 209 .
'C .
M. vol. 1 , No. 14 ; 'Camb .
and Dubl .
Math. Jour vol. 1 1846 ) , pp. 104\mdash ; 122 .
The two papers were rewritten , appeared in ' Crelle , ' vol. ( 1846 ) , pp. 1\mdash ; 37 , under he title " " Memoire sur les Hy perdetermintlnts.\ldquo ; xxvii that domain of mathematical science which in any connected with algebraical form .
Among the first to enter .
field was Sylvester , then living in London ; he and Cayley were conslant communication , alike oral and written , and carried on the1r work in the most friendly relations with one another .
Boole resumed his , and both he and Salmon made substantial additions fo the tlIeory .
The continental mathematicians also had begun important contributions , chief among ) being Aronhold , and , at a later date , Hermite .
Aronhold , indeed , devised the socailed symbolical method , now the favourite ] with workers ; in its origin it is nearly the same as the symbolical introd lced by Cayley , but the subsequent developments\mdash ; due also to Clebsch and to Gordan\mdash ; run on lines entirely diflerent ) Cayley 's .
After a time , Cayley began his series of ten on they must rank among the most wonderful combinations of original researches and papers upon a single theory evel produced .
The contain a splendid exposition of the theory as already established ; they are full of oliginal contributions to the subject , and as they taLe account of the work done by other authors , they have the further interest of showing how the subject between the appearance of the ' Introductory Memoir ' in 1854 and the appearance of the ' Jemoir ' in 1878 .
This is hardly the opportunity to writc a of the subject by apportioning among the ious i the sections which they respectively inated ; yet reference should bc made to two matters .
First , oue of the problems hat greatly interested Cayley determination of the complete asyzygetic system of irreducible invariants and covariants appertaining to a binary form , is , ysteIn such that every invariant and every ariant of the } be expressed as a rational integral algebraical function of the members of the system , the coefficicnts in the function numel.ical only .
In his 'Second lIemoir on Quantics ' he had accurately determined the nnmber ( and their degrees ) of the asyzygetic iants for binary forms of , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 ; be accurately inferl.ed the number ( together with their altd their ordel.s ) of the asyzygetic coYariants for binary forms of , 3 , 4 , all these concomitants being subsequently tabulated .
Buf , *Some information 11 ill be found in an appendix to Salmon 's ' sons o Highcr Algebra ; ' also in the notes and refercnces at the end of the second volum of the ' Collected A aluable and exha rtport , containing a history of the bject , was up by .
Dr. eycr , published under the title " " Bericht uber den gcgenwartigcn Stand der Invariantentheorie\ldquo ; Jahresber .
Dcutschen Vcreinigung , .
'C .
} vol. 2 , ; 'Phil .
Trans. ' , pp. 101\mdash ; 126 .
regard to the invariants of forms of order higher and the covariants of forms of order higher than 4 , he came to the erroneous conclusion that the respective numbers are infinite .
The error was llot corrected until Gordan in his memoir , *dated 8th June , 1868 , and entitled ' Beweis dass jede Covariante und iante einer binaren eine ganze Function mit numerischen Coefficienteu einer endlichen Anzahl solcher Formen ist , ' showed that the complete system for a binary quantic of any order contains only a limited number of members .
Cayley at once returned to the question , and having ound a source of error ( it was the neglected interdependence of cel.tain syzygies , reducing the numbers of invariants and covariants ; the interdependence had not previously been suspected ) , he dedicated his ' Ninth Memoir on Quantics'dated April , , to the correction of the error and a fnrther development of the theory he light of Gordan 's results .
His promptness in ecognising and giving immediate prominence to the work of the younger author possibly prevented some controversy among unwise partisans ; it was characteristic of the man .
And , secondly , though his series of memoirs was brought to an end the teIlth , his interest in the subject did not cease , and he frequentIy wrote upon parts of it under other titles .
In particulal Captain P. A. MacMahon 's discovery of relation of a new character between seminvariants and symmebric functions ( viz. , that the leadcoefficients of the covariants of } ) inary quantic are the same as the non-uuitary partition symmetric functions of the roots of an equation connected with a modified quantic ) proved of the keenest satisfaction to him .
From time to time he wrote in the ican Journal of Mathematics ' upon this subject and upon symmetrio functions generally in this connection , always sympathetic and appreciative of the advances made by others , abIe to grasp and assimiIate their ideas , but using them as a master and not as a follower .
It was not alone , however , to symmetric fnnctions , upon which he had written long and important memoirs as early as 1857 , but to many there cognate subjects that he extended his researches upon inand covariants .
The theory of equations of the fifth and degrees , Sturm 's functions , Tschirnhausen 's transformation , partition of numbers , 's method of derivation , skew deter .
\mdash ; to quote no others\mdash ; are titles and subjects of papers , in all of which are invesbigations of great value .
The reason that are less known ( if such be the case ) than his other work in the same line of ideas is perhaps due to the fact that the direct theory of in* ' Crelle , ' vol. 69 ( 1869 ) , pp. 323\mdash ; 354 .
' C. M. vol. 7 , No. 462 ; 'Phil .
Irans .
' ( 1871 ) , pp. 17\mdash ; 50 .
His discoveries in this subject alone have done much to simplify the analytical investigations connected Pfaff 's problem and the allied theory .
xxix variants and covariants was rapidly the range students through Salmon 's 'Lessons on Higher ebra , ' dedicated by the author to Cayley and Sylvester .
Another subject , of which he must be regarded as the creator , is the theory of matrices .
His first memoir* upon this ) " " wherein to quote Sylvester , { " " he may be said to have the foundation of multiple quantity was ] istJed in couple of isolated results had been obtained by milkon i through the methods of quaterJlions ; but they were unknown to Cnyley at the time of his memoir , and , owing to the connection in which they occur , they have an entirely detached aspect .
A matrix may initially be defined as a symbol of linear operation thus , the equations are expressed in the form the symbol is a matrix .
Cayley was the first to discuss the theory of such symbols as subjects of functional operation and to } with the hitherto regular return each stage tho equations substitution in which the symbol first arises ; in fact , he replaces fho notion of substitutional operation by the notion of a new class of quantity .
Matrices ( being of the same order dimension ) can be added like ordinary ] raieal quantities ; as ards multiplication , they : subject to the associative law , but not to ths commutative law .
Hence powers of a matrix ( positive and negative , and tiollal can be obtained , and likewise functions of matrix .
It also follows that two general ices are not convertible , that is , LM is not the same as ML save under special conditions , and is a part of the theory to find ) most general matrix tible with a given matrix .
The expression of this convertible mat , ix can be deduced bymeans of the fundamental equation which every satisfies , viz. , am algebraical equation of its own order , the coefficient of the ighest term unity , and the last term being the nant of the constants in the matrix .
All these results were given by Cayley in initial memoir ; and , at the same time , they lvore applied by him to obtain the most general automorphic linear fransformation of a bipartite quadric function , a prok ) is generalisation of that which requires the most general ortho vol. , pp. 'Amcr .
Journ. Math vol. 6 1884 .
) , p. 271 .
xxx substitution transforming the function .
into the function How fruitful the lbject has pro may be inferred by noting subsequent investigations of Sylvester , who has developed it on Cayley 's ] ines , and has added to it many new ideas ; of Tait , who developed the theory of quaternions on parallel lines : of the Peirces , father and son , whose researcbes on linear associate algebra*gave rise to the notion of matrices from a diiferent source ; of ford and Buchheim , who connected the theory with Grassmann 's methods ; of Laguerre , in whose memoir the treatment of a " " linear system\ldquo ; ( the same as a Cayley matrix ) is similar to Cayley 's ; and of many other writers , among whom Taber should be mentioned .
Connected with non-commutative algobraical quantities , Cayley 's researches on the theory of groups require a passing notice .
He devoted several pers to questions in this theory .
Some of them relate to those groups of subsbitutions , the introduction of which by Galois made an.epoch in the theory of equations , others of them relate to groups of homographic transformations , particularly tbose related to the polyhedraI functions .
But , so far as can be seen , he limited his ) ublished investigations to those groups which are finite and discontinuous .
Abstract geometry\mdash ; the ideal geometry of dimensions\mdash ; is a subject that he may almost be said to have created ; no other name than his has been associated with its origin .
More than anything else , it marks the live of difference between the kinds of homage accorded to him .
]]ixperts it as an illustration of his imaginative power : the unlearned regard it as an incomprehensible mystery .
It a place among his earliest investigations , it was steadily present to mind , illuminating many of his researches ; and occasionally it found expJicit treatment , e.g. , in his ' Memoir on Abstract Geometry , 'S and in his Presidential Address at Southport .
The theory presents in two connections : one ' .
as a need in analysis , the other as a generalisation of the ordinal.y geometries of two dimensions and of three imensions .
The former origin can be indicated in a brief statement .
When an occasion arises for dealing wibh a number of variables , connected in any and regarded as either variable or determinate ( wholly or , the nature of relations among them is indicated , and often is made more easily ible , by associating some geometrical interpretation with the given system of relations .
* Amer .
Journ. Math vol. 4 ( 1881 ) , pp. 97\mdash ; 22$ ) .
" " Sir le Calcul des Lineaires\ldquo ; ( ' Journal de .
Poly t. 2 , 1867 , pp. 215\mdash ; 264 ) .
C. M. vol. 1 , No. 11 ; 'Camb .
Math. Journ vol. 4 , pp. 119\mdash ; 127 .
S 'C .
M. , No. 413 ; 'Phil .
Trans. ' ( 1870 ) , pp. 51\mdash ; 63 .
xxxii section of two having one common generator ; but equation of the quadrics taken ogether represent not the cubic curve alone but also the common generator .
And the liko for other cases .
's purpose in his ' Memoir on Abstract Geometry , ' already referred to , was the exposition of some of the elementary principles of the subject .
The paper is a remarkable ance of his power of presentation of abstract ideas , and of his ] precision of statement .
Moreover , he makes it an explanatory paper ; and , in view of the prevailing estimate of him as an analyst , it is worthy of notice that the paper does not contain a single equation , and contains only a few symbols .
It is unnecessary to summarize its contents ; the fnrthest stage reached is the establishment of the notion that underlies the principle of duality in geometry .
But though the necessity for hyperdimensional thus be met so far as it arises in connection with analysis , it is a different matter when the geometry is to be regarded as the generalisation of the geometries of two-dimensional space and of three-dimensional space .
Cayley 's reply to his own question as to the meaning to be btached to hyperdimensional space is*that " " lt may be at once admitted that we cannot conceive of a fourth dimension of space ; that space as we conceive of it , and the physical space of our experience , are alike three-dimensional ; but we can , I think , conceive of as being two- or even dimensional ; we can imagine rational living in a onedimensional space ( a line ) or in a two-dimensional space surface ) , and of space accordingly , and to whom , therefore , a two-dimensional space , or ( as the case may be ) three-dimensional space would be as inconceivable as a dimensional space is to us By not a few people the first clause in this passage has been neglected and the later clauses have not always been read rightly , and his further remark , " " I need hardly say that the first step is the difficulty , and that granting a fourth dimeIlsion we may assume as many more dimensions as we has left some readers rather puzzled as to whether Cayley had not , after all , some mysterious incommunicable conception of a fourth dimension .
His position is st in the first clause of the former passage : his conclusion is that hypergeometry is , and is only , a branch of mathematics .
Before passing from the consideration of his larger contributioIIg to hypergeometry , it is proper to mention his introduction of the six -ordinates of a line .
These are six quantities connected by a homogeneous equation ; and as only their ratios are used , they are thus equivalent to only four independent ilgnitudes , suffi* ' Brit. Ass .
Report , ' 1883 .
President 's Address , p. 9 .
cient for the specification of a line .
They established , and primarily used by him , in lection w his lalytical representation of curves in space ; often the subject , ring in iculal .
one to tlje c the f , ixco-ordiIlates and to a of Sylvester 's involuti o ix Jines .
Tt should , however , be stated that these elves independently to Plucker ; opnlent o Plucker 's as set Iorth ) a Goon of Space , ' and his bookS ' Never eomctrie des ] , ' ( iifferent from that ) ined by Cayley , and it to bc as a separate it need hardly bc remark .1 } the uctio of a line , as an by set of -ordinatos , to a new eometry oi space , it is also cleal that 1 be arded { a geomet of four dimcnsions .
Another notion , entirely due to Cayley in its first , is of Absolute ; it ; first in his ' Sixth .
on Quantics , ' which was devoted chiefly to his ittions on the gcnsrulised eory of metrical geom It is a known that the between AB , when multiplied by , is equal to the of cross ratio of the pencil made up of the lines AB , AC , ttnd lines A to the circular points at measure of the angle between two lines can be repl ; ) ced consideration of a projective property of an exten led teIn of lineH .
Other examples of similar challges be quoted .
) purpose of Cayley 's theory was to replace or figures by properties of an extended com of the given tlre or and of an added But it is not solely to generalisatiou of that memoir is famous .
It has evol utionised the theory of the llon , Eu lidian geonletry ; it has imporbant on the and of the axioms of tuition .
) illdep:ndence and the importance of ideas , by Caylsy in memoir , have nevcr been questioned ; but , as is oltcn naturally ) the case the coverer of ) .
the S ) jecl , Cayley imself did not explain or foresee the full of ) his .
He did not uise , at ) time metn oir was iirst published , the identification of his eIleritl , heol .
of geometry with the geometry of Lobatchewiiky and Bolyai .
This fundamental step was by Klein in his * ' C. M. vol. 4 , Nos. , 294 .
' .
Trans 1861 pp. S Leipzig , Tenbner , 1808 .
Phil. Trans. ) , pp. 61\mdash ; 9 ) .
LV111 .
xxxiv admirable memoir* ' Ueber die sogenannte Nicht-Euklidische Geometrie , ' which contairls a considerable simplification in statement of Cayley 's original point of view , and contributes one of the most imporl ant results of the whole theory .
The work of two mathematicians now being an organic whole , there is no \mdash ; at least here\mdash ; in attempting to subdivide the subject for the purpose of the ) ct of each in its construction .
The of the Cayley-Klein ideas may briefly be gathered from the following sketch .
Let and be two points .
often called a point-pair ; they are to be either both real or , if not reaI , conjugate innries so far as their -ordinates are cerned .
Let be three other points on the line ; and let ) symbol ( PQ ) denote as are a real point-pair , or an imaginary point-pair .
bcn it is manifest that ( PR ) , so that the functions , , satisfy the fundamental property of the distances between and and , and and R. Consequently ( PQ ) may be aken as a generalised conception of the distance between the points and Q. let a conic be described in a plane , either imaginary , say , of form or real , say , of the form .
Choosing the latte ' case , Jet attention be confined to points Iying conic , so that every straight line through a point cuts the conic in a real point-pair , Take points , and ; and let the line joining them cut the in two points , and .
Then , as defined above ( the constant being the same for all such lines ) , is the generalised distance between and Q. This , which been arily assumed , and upon which , the generalised conception of distance depends , is termed by Cayley the Absolute .
Cayley , however , avoided unsatisfactory procedure of one conception of distance to define a mo ce general conception .
As he himseIf explains more fully , he regarded the ates of as some quantities which define the relative properties of points , considered thought any reference to the idea of distance but COIlceived as ordered elements of a manifold .
Thus if and be the -ordinates of the point-pair and , the -ordinates of the * Math. Ann .
pp. 573\mdash ; 626 .
See the note hich he added , 'O .
M. vol. 2 , p. 604 , to Sixth Memoir ; it some teresting historical and critical remarks .
xxxv and on the line can be taken as ) , and function can then be defined as the generalised idea of distance thus ils ( definition any antecedent use of ) conception in its ordinary view is summed up in his sentcncc*:\mdash ; " " . . .
the iu effect is , that the metrical properties of a are not the } ) erlies of considerod se ) from eve ] ything else , but its propc ] the$ when considel.ed in connection with another fignre , viz. the conic termed the absolute The metrical ] obtained when absolutc are identical those of 's and 's " " perbolic \ldquo ; : when the absolutc is identical with of 's " " elliptic\ldquo ; geometry ; thti limiting case the two that of huclidian ) Cayley 's memoir leads to the question , as to projective eonletry can be defilled in terms of the introduction of distance .
) has been discussed by volume Staudt ( in 184 previous to Cayley 's memoir ) , by Klein by anIt .
memoir thus points to a divisiou of our space two distinct parts : one , the more fundamental as not idea of tance , the other , the more artificial as ) idea of ' distance to the former .
The considerabion of the relation of these to the philosophical account of space has not yet been to ils uItimate issue .
It is in alytical geometr7 , both of curves and of tCCS , tiat the variety of Cayley 's is to be , ardly an important question in the whole of either subject in the solution of hc ] not had some share ; and there roperties our with which is due chiefly , if not entirel to him .
How widely he has advanced the boundaries of kuowledge in analytical geometry can be inferred even from the amount of researches ]xeady incorporated in such as by Clebsch and Frost ; and yet they represent only a portion of what he has done .
In these circumstances a selection among his C0J1 , S 230 .
' Geometry der Lage ; ' also in his later ' Beitrage de ] .
'Mnth .
Ann t. 6 ( 1873 ) , pp. S 'Vorlesungen uber Geometrie ' ( -Lindemann ) , vol. 1 ; third section is oted to the subjcct .
xxxvi butions can be indicated : ib must be tood that , here as elsewhere , the statement does not etend to be a complete account .
It is an old-established property that two curves of degrees and cnt in mn points , but that it is nopossible to ) a curve of rree n hrough any mn arbitrarily selected points on a curve of degree As early as 1843 , Cayley extended the property and showed that wheIl curve of higher than either or is to be drawn the points common to the two curves , they do not count for ditions in its determination , but only .
a number of conditions than by .
A single addition was made to the theorem by Bacharach* in 1886\mdash ; taking account of the when the undetermining points lie on a cllrve of degree with this exception the algebraical problem was completely solved by Cayley in his original paper .
The resolt is often called Cayley 's intersection-theorem .
Anothel geometrical research of fundamental importance was ' bodied by in a ' On the higher singularities of a plane curve , ' published in 1866 : it is there proved that any singularity ever on a plane aIgebraical curve can be reckoned as equivalent to a definite number of } simple singularities constituted by the node , the ordinary cusp , the double tangent and the iexional tangent .
The theory has , since that date , been developed lioes different from Cayley's\mdash ; owing to its importance in other theories , such as AbeIian functions , variety in its development proved both necessary and useful ; but it was Cayley 's investigations in continuation of Plucker 's theory that have cleared the path for Ia , ter work of others .
The classification of cubic had been effected by Newtori in his tract 'Ennmeratio linearum tertii ordinis , ' published in 1704 : and six species had been added by Sbirling and Cramer , the total then being 78 .
Plu effected a new classification in his ' System der analytischen Geometry , ' published in 1835 : his total number of species is 219 , the division into species being more detailed than Newton 's .
Cayley re-examined the subject in his memoirS ' On the classification of cubic curves , ' expounding the principles of the two classifications and bringing them into comparison with one another ; and entering into discussion yith full teness , he obtains the exact ] ation of the two classifications to one another\mdash ; a result of reat value in the theory .
To the theories of rational transformation and correspondence made considerable additious .
Two figures are said to be rationally * ' Math. Ann vol. 26 ( 1886 ) , pp. 275\mdash ; 299 .
'C .
M. vol. 1 , No. 5 ; 'Camb .
Math. Journ vol. 3 ( 1843 ) , pp. 211--213 .
'C .
M. vol. 5 , No. 374 ; ' Quart .
Math. ' vol. 7(1866 ) , pp. 212\mdash ; 223 S 'C .
M. ' vol. 5 , No. 350 ; 'Camb .
Phil. Trans vol. 11 ( 1864 ) , pp. 81\mdash ; 128 .
transformable into one another when to a of one of corresponds reciprocslly ( and only one ) ble point ) the other .
figure may be a spacc it be a in a transformations ween two spnces give transfoI lllcLti0ltH betwcen loci in those spaces ; bnt it is llot in general : that } betwe two loci : rational trnnsformations between the spaccs in those There is thus a distinction ) of bpaces and the theory of dollcc of loci .
occupied ma1Jy investigatol .
S , latter in particulat ; nd Cayle work may fairly ) to dded m to the uf the tbeory as to Riemanll , lona and bher , may be out for nelltion , his on the of plallC C , in 011 tl bitangents of a gular quartic ; Iopments of Plucker ' of foci ; his discussion of the of cu $ , and of ctic points on a } cnrve a ic cnll be six consecutive ) ; his co ubions to of the inval.iants and of plane curves ; and his memoirs on systcnls of subjt cted specified conditions .
Moreover , he was fond of ls of ucting a intended for the mcch ' c.urves .
The latter finds in val.ious of Lis lately as 1893 he exhibited , at a meeting of } hophical Society , a curve-tracing mecbanism connected l/ lotiou .
All the preceding results ] to plane ; no less ) portant or lebS numerous were the ] he contributed to ( eometry .
The en lines that lie ) a cubic announced in his ' the faces Third Order , published , after a correspondence Salmoll and ] .
Cayley devised a new the analytical expression cf curves in space by the represcntation the cone through the curve and vertex at an arbitrary .
Again , by using plu 's equations that COIlnect the ( simple ) singularilies of planc curves , he ( leduced the ol'dinary ( simp]e ) } * In this ( onnection report by Brill Noether , iiber ntwicklung der Theory der Functionen in :llerer und never ) \ldquo ; Jahresber .
Deutschen Mathem .
Vereinigung , 1 , ill be \mdash ; particularly the sixth and the tenth seclions\mdash ; to give a very : of the and its history .
'C .
M. , No. 76 ; .
and Dubl .
' vol. 4 I118\mdash ; 132 .
' third Ilobe .
xxxviii the developable that is generated by the osculating plane of a iven tortuous curve , and , therefore , also of any developable surfac } .
He greatly extended Salmon 's theory of reciprocal rfaces ; and , ].esllming a subject alrcarly discussed by Schlafli , he produced* in bis ' Memoir ou Cubic Surfaces , ' in which he dealt with their complete classification .
Many of is memoirs are devoted to the theory of ruled surfaces , or scrolls as he called them .
Our knowledge of geodesics , of orthogonal ms of aces , of the centro-surface of an ellipsoid , of the wave-surface , of the 16-nodal quartic surface , not to mention more , is in part to the extensions he aohieved .
It is to indicate parts of the general theory of surfaces and of twisted curves that do not owe at least something and fi.equently to his labours ; a mere reference to the index of a book like Salmo[) 's 'Solid Geometry ' will show how vast has been his nfiuence .
group of subjects interested him throughout his life , theory of pel'iodic functions , in pal.tioular , of elliptic functions : it was to the latter that his only book was devoted .
But in a subject , the main lines of which were established so definitely before he began to vrite , it is impossible , witho ut entering into great detail , to mark out the contribntions that are directly due to him .
When a theory is in uch a stage as was that of elliptic functions about 1842 , the work of olte writer sometimes helps to fill the gaps left by that of anothe sometimes ] writer 's results from a different point of view ; the composite tlIeory depends , in part , upon the coordination of complementary results .
Abel 's famous paper , 'Memoire sir nne propriete generale d'une cIasse tres-etendue de fonctions transcenda1ltes , ' presented to the ench Academy of Sciences in 1826 , and unfortunately delayed publicationS for nearly fifteem years , attracted Cayley 's attenquite early in his ntific career .
In 1845 ley published his ' Memoir sir les fonctions doublement riodiques , in which be considered Abel 's inite products of the form * ' C. M. vol. 6 , p. 412 ; 'PIlil .
Trans. ' ( 1869 ) , pp. 231\mdash ; 326 .
The history lvill be found in Casorati , 'Teorica dell funzioni di variabili complesse , ' 1868 , and in Enneper , ' Elliptische Functionen , Theory und Geschichte , ' second edition , 1890 , where other references are given .
tEuvl es completes d'Abel ' ( Christiania , , vol. 1 , pp. 145\mdash ; 211 .
S circumstances recited in S 9 of the appendix to the volume , by Bjerknes , 'Niels Henrik Abel , de sa vie et de son action scientiliqu ( Gautbier-Villars , Paris , 188 'C .
M. vol. 1 , No. 'Lionville , ' t. 10 ( 1845 ) , pp. XXXiX where , the ratio : is not rc roduct is taken for all positive and all integer values of and of between positive }tlegative infinity , except simultaneous zero values .
He showed such ) be to obtain Jacobi 's elliptic functions by acti o such as ; and he also that the actual of any } involve tjal f , where the of the ] the between the of of ?
} of definite ) at ] the .
But the form of -inllnitc product modi f , lylo takes l11I I function of which is ) endonb of ] ficn l of relation between the infinities of and of ) .
to Iatter si mplification , 's results are , as he himself those of rass .
Cayley had great admiration for of both ) } cobi ; had un to read the latter 's ' mcntn Nova ' ately after his .
The prominent ; ition in th work by the theory of transformation arall v his } ; and , even as early as 1844 and , he emoi } ] the subject , obtainin ' in ono of them a ftIlcbion , to Abel now the function .
urfhcr memoirs of a tenor occasionally ; they deal iefly transformation concerned with the known differential relation of form The contributions to the transformation ] Jouberb , and IIermite , as well as tions , ] depend upon the use transcendental functions tl } * This is somctimes rently , as , ruc ) and for ) tesIan c ; those and of at infinity , may be ) idered to lie ) ) a gcher at , the shape of which is by ution b the of of The value of the is said to pcnd upon the of this in curve .
Weierstrass 's investigations on infinite products :ire contained in his ) ( Theory der eindeutigen $i unctionen\ldquo ; ( ' .
K. Wiss .
zu Berlin , ' ) ; also in , book ' Abhandlun gen ' 1886 .
' C. M. vol. 1 , p. 586 .
xl : yet the results are such that they ought to be deducible by ordinary algebraical processes .
It was Cayley 's wish to deal with this theory b.y pnre algebra ; two simple cases had already tbus been discussed by Jacobi , but the extension to he lefis simple cases proved difficnlt .
Cayley 's 'Memoir on the transformation of elliptic lnctions , carries on the aIgebraical theory and places it in a light than before .
But tbough he made a distinct advance in dealing with cases , he still found it necessary to use the ]-transcendc.nts for making any definite advance in the general case .
And the same compulsion ucctlrs in the pters of his ' Treatise ' ( dated 1876 ) , where tx.ansformation is discussed at considerable He lmed his investigations in 1886 , still dealing with the method , but applying it to a simplified of elliptic to Brioschi .
Though the problem is not solved completely for the .
general case , he has devised a method which is eflective at least in part ; it easily leads to new results connected with the modular equations in the known simpler cases previously soJved .
The theta-functions are the subject of several of his papers .
He began with ] a direct nblishment of Jacobi 's relation , obtained in the ' Fundamenta Nova ' by a long and cumbrous process ; and he proceeded to the construction of the differential equations slied by the theta-functions .
Except , however , in so far as arise in the transformation theory , they do not appear to have pied him until about 1877 .
In thab year and in the he a number of papers dealing with the on an deper)dent basis and not as a detail in elliptic functions .
the iuvestigations are concerned with -tuple functions , vet , partly for si , and partly in order to secure the ( tetailed development theory , the papers deal chiefly with the cases Previous to Cayley 's tions , the most valuable ] gebraical resnlts this subject were those of RosenhainS and Gopel , which connccted the ] theta-functions with the theory of the * ' C. M. vol. 9 , No. 577 ; 'Phil .
Trans 1874 , pp. 397\mdash ; 456 .
of this period belonging to the tion of elliptic published in the 'American Journal of Mathemalics , ' vol. , pp. 193\mdash ; 224 ; vol. 10 ( 1888 ) , pp. 71\mdash ; 93 .
' On the TJleory of Elliptic Functions 'C .
M. vol. 1 , No. 46 ; 'Camb .
and Dub ! .
Math. Journal , ' vol. 2 ( 1847 ) , pp. 256\mdash ; 266 . .
Mem. des Savans Etrangers , ' t. , pp. 361\mdash ; 468 ; the paper is 'Crelle , ' vol. 35 ( lS47 ) , pp. 277\mdash ; 312 .
xli functions of two variables , and those of Weierst ] , developed by Konigsberger*to give the " " addibion-theorem.\ldquo ; Proceeding his 'Memoir the Single and Double Theta-fnnctions more by Gopel 's method than by Rosenhain 's , Cayley resumes the whole He pays special attention to the relations the squares of the functions and to the derivation of the biquadratic relation among four of the } ious , which is the same as the equation of Knmmel.'S quartic surface .
To relation and to the geomet ] of this ociated surfacc he frequentIy recurred , both specifically in isolated papers and generally in )rehes upon qual'ticSUl.faces .
As connected , parb , with elliptic functions , his investigations on orism of the in-and circumscribed polygon should be mentioned .
porismatic properby of two conics , , that they may be to each other so that one ( and , if one polygon , inite number of polygolls ) cau be scribed in one and circumscribed about the otLer , is due to the ician Poncelet .
special case when the conics two circles ) been discussed nffiyticalIy by Jacobi , using elliptic functions for tho purpose .
Cayley undertook , iirst in , the anaIytical discussion of } most general case of two conics , also elliptic lions ; and ] ) obtaiuedS the ions , necessary for the , for the sevc1al as far as the And it be remalked , as a characteristic of Cayley 's abit of ) occcding to genol.al cases , that he did not leave the matter at this btagc .
In a On the Problem of the in- and circumscribed ' raises question as to the number of polygons which such that tl ular p lie on a given .
given curves of ally order and their sides touch another given curve or given curves of any class .
Using the theol'y of correspondence , he solves the question completely in the case of a account of the lifty-two that arise the of two curves , or more than two curves , being one and the same time to time Cayley his attention to tions i theoretical dynamics , choosing them as subjects of his 1e his earlier years as professor .
Among them be nlentioned his investigations on ctions , pecially those on attraction of ellipsoids , to which he devotes five discussing the methods of , Jacobi , Gauss , Laplace , ; and his Crele , , pp. 17\mdash ; 42 .
'Phil .
Trans 1880 , pp. ' Ges .
Werke , ' t. 1 , pp. 277\mdash ; 293 ; this paper ublislled first in ' Crellc , ' t. 3 ( 1828 ) , pp. 376\mdash ; 389 .
S In a set of five papers , .
M. vol. 2 , Nos. 113 , 115 , 116 , ; ibid. vol. 4 , No. 267 .
'C .
M. vol. 8 , No. 514 ; ' Phil. Trans. ' ( 18/ 1 ) , pp. 369\mdash ; 412 .
'C .
M. vol. 1 , Nos. 75 , 89 ; vol. 2 , Nos. 164 , 173 , 193 .
VOL. LVIII .
lix of the .
earth 's surface , the analogies between the modern igneous ocks and the so-called primary formations , on erosion , ou { ion in the Pacific , on terraces , and the formation of valleys .
Further , he was an active field geologist , and more especially studied the socalled Taconic system , chiefly in Western New England , and the glacial phenomena of Southern New ngland .
The region inclnded in Western Connecbicut and lfassachusetts , and extending westward into New York , and north to Vsrmont , was traversed many times , and there was scarcely an outerop in the whole of this difficult region which was not visited by him , and carefully examiued described .
His geological report for the Wilkes expedition occupies 756 pages , and is accompanied by 21 plates .
Further , he was particularly interested in volcanoes , in 1890 published a considerable work ( 399 pages ) entitled " " acterisbics of Volcanoes , with Con:tributions of Facts and Principles from the Hawaiian Isln .
\ldquo ; ) placed on record useful information collected by him during his travels in volcanic regions .
His zooIogical work , which was even more extensive that mineralogy and geology , chiefly related to the Wilkes expedition of 1838\mdash ; 1842 .
This expedition followed in part the course taken by the " " Beagle in 1831\mdash ; 1836 , and even it diverged from thal Tout , visited coral and volcanic islands , such as have beeu carefully described by Charles Darwin .
When the Wilkes expedition Sydney , in 1839 , Dalla chanced to sce in a newspaper a meant of Darwin 's theory of the origin of the atoll and barrier forms of reefs .
This statement , though very brief , was so suggestive as to be of great help to him in his work , and he ever afterwards expressed feelings of the deepest gratitude to its author .
A visit to the Fiji Islands in 1840 ( where two of his were murdered by the natives ) brought before him facts such as bad been noticed by elsewhere ; but in the Fiji Islands they were on a still grander scale , and of a more diversified character , thus enabling to speak even more positively of the theory than Darwin himself had it philosophical to do .
One arge volume of his expedition report was devoted to zoophytes , and described over 200 ncw species .
His reporb on the crustacea occupied two volumes , and described 680 species , of which more than 500 were new to sciencc .
voInme was illustrated by an atlas of plates , most of tbem drawn by ljimself .
Though the last half-century has brought some slight changes to his classification of the crustacea , that of th corals stands to-day nearly as it was given by him in the report .
This was the first time any considerable number of the animals been described and figured from life .
Dana fnrther that the building corals live only in water having a temperature of at least F. , and that the distribution of the corals thus ) ends on lx emperature of the .
His expedition report on " " Coral Reefs and Coral Islan \ldquo ; separately publislJed in 1853 , was afterwards extended by him into an elaborate account of " " and Coral Islands\ldquo ; ( 406 , the preface of which bears the date of 1872 .
His work procured him many marks of distinction , both at home and abroad .
He was an original member of bhe National Academy of Sciences of the United States , and in the year 1854 occupied the ial of the Association for the Advancement of Science .
He was made .D .
by Amberst College in 1853 , and by Harvard and Edinburgh Universities in 1886 .
In 1851 he was elected a Foreign Member of the Geological Society of London , and in 1872 received from that society its Wollaston Medal .
In the same year the University of Munich conferred upon him the degree of Ph. D. ; in 1877 he received the Copley Medal of the Royal Society of London , and in 1884 was elected one of its Foreign Members .
He was a corresponding member of the scientffic academies of Paris , Berlin , Vienna and St. Petersburg , and of many other learned societies .
ring all his life he had a strong love for music .
He played the violin and the flute , was for a time the leader of the college choir , and even made some attempts at musical composition .
As a man be was noted for the gentleness and kindliness of his character , and was thus on excellent with his colleagues .
Professor Dana leaves a widow and four children .
Owing to the specialisation rendered necessary by the progress of knowledge , it be long we can expect to have with us a man of science with attainments so in character as were those of the United States veteran , James Dwight Dana .
L. F.

