AZn Accounf of the remarkable Eyects of a Stipwreck on the Mariners ; with Experiments and Qbservations on the Infuenue of Immersion in fresh and snlt Water , bot and cold , on the Powers of the lizying Body .
By Jalnes Currie , of I , iverpool , M. D. l ?
ellow of the Royal College of Physzcians t Edfinburgh .
Commt4nicated by Thornas Percival , M. D. F. R. SO &gt; Read Aploil , 1:79e .
1 HE followitig narrative is submitted to the Royal Society , as containing---in itself some curious circumstatlves , and as have " ing suggested the experiments afterwards to be recited .
0t1 the 13th of December , 790 , arl American ship was cast away orl a sand-bank that lies in the opening of the river Mersey into the Irish Channe3 .
The crew got on a part of the wreck , where they : &gt; -passed the night ; and a signal which theSy manle being discovered next day from Hillberry Island a boat went of though at a great risk , and took up the surrivors .
The unfortunate men had rernained twenty-three hours on the wreck ; and of fourteen , the original number , eleven were still allve , all of whom in the end recolrered .
Of the three that perished , one was the master of the vessel ; another was a passenger who had been a naster , but had lost or sold his ship in America ; the third was the cook .
the bodies of these unfortunate persorls urere also brought off by the men from Hillberry Islandg and were afterwards interred in Saint Nicholas church-yard , amidst a great crowd of spectators .
The cook .
, who was a weakly man , died a few hours before : the boat reached the wreckL , but the two-lllasters had been lorlg dead , and this added to the sympathy for their loss , a curiosity to inquire into its circumstances and causes .
When the following particulars came to be known , this curiosity was increased Both the nJasters were strong and healthy men land one of them a native of Scotland , in the flonver of lifE early inalred to cold and hardships , and srery vigorous both in body and tnind .
On the other hand several of the survivors were by no means strong men , most of them were natives of the warm c]imate of C:arolina , and what was singular enough , the person among the whole who seemed to have suffered let mras a negro .
Wllat is extraordinary is seldom long unaccounted for in otle way or other , and the death of the two tnasters was said &lt; to have buen owing to their Elaving taken possession of a keg. .
hich had contained cherry-brandy and which still contaix}ed the cherries , -these it was reporteds they had kept to themselves , and eaten in large quantities after the shipwreck ; and this havIng produced intoxication , -was supposed to have hastened their death .
Some experienced sea:nell were satisfied withi this account , which indeed seenzed very rational ; for thCsgll spirituous liquorswmay fortify the body against the effects of heat combined with moisture ) and nzay perhaps support it for a short time under great fatigue they are ) I believe , uniformly hurtful when taken under severe and con tinued cold .
Pleased to see a doctrine becoming poptllar wehich has been so ably supported by Dr. AISEN , $ and others , I beX See Trarlsactions of the Philosophical and Literary Society of Manchester , V. I ; liesred it might rective a striking confirmation from this catastrophe , itlto the particulars of which I determined to examine accurately .
I therefore obtained access to the survivors of the cresr , and from them , but more especially from Mr. AMYA1 , the mate , I receilred the information which r required .
In repeated conversationsfwith this illtelligent young luan , I learrlt that Capt. SCOTTY the master of l:he vessel died in about four hours after the ship struck ; and that CaptDAVISON , the passenger , diecI in about sevell : but that the incident of their having eaten cllerries infused in brandy was entirely uzithout foundation : of this he was certain , for he saw the keg which contained the cherries , staved , while Capt. DAVISON was endeavouring to fill it with water to make grog for the crew ; the cherries fell oll the wreck , and were immediately washed into the sea .
Mrs AMYAT expressed his surl ?
rise at the early death of the two masters , but could not assign any cause for lt .
He said there was no liquor of any kind saved , nor any sort of-food ; that the whole crew were on an equality in all points , except that some were deeper in the waterthan others but that the two masters had the advantage itl this respect for they sat on the only part of the wreck that was out of the sea , whereas the poor negron who escaped almost unhurt , was perhaps deepest in the sea of any .
He explained this in the following manner .
When the ship struck they cut away her masts to prevent her from oversetting , and after this she cirifted over the sand bank , into what 11e called a " swash " on the other sideh Here she floated , and they let go their best bower an chor .
but it dragged , and the vessel struck again in a few mi nutes on another barlk .
In this situation she lay some tilXIe beating against the sand , and the sea breaking over her .
In a little whileMr .
AMYAT saw the tar barrels , which formed lier cargo , floating-tovards the latld , and soon after the bottom parted entirely , and was carried in the same direction .
Happily for the men , the part of the wreck otl which they were lashed was held by the atlchor and floated ill the water , a snzall portion of the after part of the quarter-"deck being above the surface .
On this sat the twovmasters , generally out of the sea , but frequently overwhelmed by the surge , and at other times exposed to l-leavy sho^rers of sleet and-snou and to a high and piercing willd .
The temperature of the air , as nearly as can be guessed , was from gO ' to 3So of FAU .
and that of the sea , from trials in similar circumstances , from:380 to 400 .
IInmediately before the two masters was-Mr .
AMYST himself .
As te was sitting , and the deck sloped pretty rapidlys he weas generally up to the tniddle in the water .
The situation of the rest may be supposed ; some of them were up to the shoulders .
Thesy were not at any time able to change their position , but kept their legs in pretty constant motion to counteract the colds their arms being employed ill holding by the wreck .
The master of the ship Capt. SCOTT , a native of Nortll-Ca rolina , and about forty years of age , died first .
As they urere in the dark , Mr. AN{YST could not see his countenance ; but he was first alartned by hearing him talk incoherently , like one in the delirium of fever .
By degrees his voice dutindled into a mtltter , and his hearing seemed to fail .
At letlgth he raised himself up in a sort of convulsive motion , in which he continued a few secollds , and then fell back dead on the deck .
This happened about eight in the evening ; four hours after the ship went aground .
Soon after thisa Capt. DAVISONX who was about twenty-eiglat , began to talk incollerently , in the same manner as the other .
He struggled lelager , but died ill the same way , at about elea7en at rlight .
The cook died in the forenoon of the succeeding dayo LIe was a low-spirited man , and desponded from the begirlning .
All the rest held : outg as has been already mentiolledX though sorely pinched with cold and hunger , till they were taken up about three ill the afternoon .
Mr. AMYAT said that his 11arlds and feet were svelled and numb , though not absolutely senseless ; he felt a tightness at the pit of his stomach , and his\#162 ; louth and lip$ were parched ; but what distressed isitn most was cramps in the muscles of his sides and hips , which were drawn into knots .
Tllough immersed in the sea , they were all of them very thirsty ; ana though exposed to such severe cold , Mr. AMYAT himself V\JAS tlOt drowsy , nor were any of the men drowsy nor d-id sleep precede death in those that perished .
These facts are curious .
Reflecting on the particulars of this melanclaoly story , thereseemed no doubt that the death of the twso mastelOs was to beimputed to their peculiar position on the wreck .
Exposedto- ; heavy showers of sleet and snow they might suffer from being wet with fresh } rather than salt water e they might also sufferfrom being exposed to the cold of the atmosphere , probably seven or eight degrees greater than that of the sea .
rlhechilling eSects of evaporation might operate against them , promoted as these must have been by the high wind ; orthey might receive injury from their -frequient imlnersivllsin the sea producing a-rl ialternation in the media suirrounding .
ThSis liaist supposition did xlot , )illdeed , strike Tne at this time ; the others vlwelt ol1 my mind .
Of the powers attending animation , -that which seems fulz dalnental , is the capacity of the living body of preserving the -same heat in various degrees of temperature of the same me --dium , and , indeedX in media of very different density and pressure .
If a definition-of life were required , it i-s on this faculty that it night best be founded .
It is known that some fluids , applied to the-slkin , vary in their eflSects according to the-rimpregnation .
In the same -degree of temperature , pure water on the surface of the body is much more hurtful than wzater in which salt is dissolved .
Seafaring .
men are universally -acquainted with this , and a striking proof of the truth , as well as of the importance of the observation , may be found in the Narsrative of Lieut. BLIGH .
Probably the saline impregna ; tion may stimulate the vessels of the skin ill some vwrav that -counteracts the sedative or debilitating action of the cold .
At Aany rate , it seemed not unliliely that some light might be thrown on this curious subject , by observing the effiects of immersion in fresEl and salt water , of equal temperature , oxl the -animal heat .
Alld this ulight also assi$t in accounting for the death of the unfortunate men already mentioned ... E XPE RI MEANT I. I placed a large vesse ] , contaitling one hundred and seventy gallons of salt water , in the open ai The atmosphere was damp , and what is called raw The thermometer stood at in the air , and this also was the temperature of the water .
The subject of my experiment was RICHARD EDWARDS , a healthy man , twenty-eight years of age , with black hair , and a -ruddy complexion .
The hour chosen for his immersion was four in the afternoona about two hou-rs after Ilis dinner ; a timb appoirlted rather for my own convenience , than as being most proper for the purpose .
His heat was 98 ' before undressing , his pulse zooe itl the minute .
He was undressed i } a rooze where the mercury was at $6 ' ; and aftersvards stood naked before the fire till his heat and pulse were examined again , and found as before .
He then walked pretty briskly though a flagged passage into an open court , where the north-east wind blew sharply uponhim : he was exposed to it f{r a lllinote , and then plung ; ed suddenly into the water up to the shoulders .
The thermometer which had been kept in a jug of warm. .
water , at the heat of 100 ' , was introduced into his mouth , with the bulb under his tongue as S0001 as the convulsive sobbings occasioned by the shock snJere over .
The mercury fell rapidly , and a minute and a half after irnmersion it stood at 87 ' .
He renlairled motionless in the rater , and the mercury rose gradually ; at the etld of twelve minutes it stood at 3'3* While he sat itz the water , it occurred to me to exanline his heat when he rose out of it -into the air : I had reflected oz the power that must be employed to keep up his heat in a medium so dense as utater , and where an inanirnate body , of the same bullk , would have cooled so much more speedily thaz in air of the same temperature .
Supposing that this heat-producing process , whatever it may be , might continlle its operations some time after the extraordinary stimulus ( the pres sure of the water ) was remorred , I expected to see the mercury rise by the accumulation of his heat , on changing the medium of srater for air , and therefore-kept hina exposed , naked , to the wind two luinutes after taking hiln out of the bath .
To my surprise , although the attenciants were rubbing him dry with towels during this time , the mercury fell rapidly .
11e was put into a warm bed , and his heat , when fexamined uxlder totlgues was 87 at the axilla 89o .
Frictions were usedy and Ebrandy mixed with water admirlistered ; but I found orx this , as on all future occasions , that the best mode of counteracting the cold , was to apply a bladdery svitl:o hot watery to the pit of the stomach ( the scrobiculus cordis ) , a fact which I think important : this : being done , his shi-veringsy which be-fore were severe , soon ceased , and he became mqre com-fbrtable .
Three hollrs afterwards however , he had not entirely recovered EliS Xformer heat , but hy eight at night , he was m all respects as usual ... I have been very minute in detailing the c-ircumstances under which this experiment was made ; some of the particulars which , at the time , I thought of little consequence , I found afterwardsof importance .
The experiment itself I deterrllined to repeat as exactly as posslblee EXPERIMENT Ile .
On the next daya at the same hour , the same person wa$ again imulersed , as before .
His pulse previously was 8S3 his heat xoo ' .
He had been put to bed an hour before , to save the time spent in undressing .
The heat of the watex and of the atmosphere744t- .
The wind north-east , and strongc On this occasion , as before , there was a rapid fall of the mercury ; the following table wsill saVe wordse Ther- .
There .
e min. after immersion 89'2 9 min. after immersion g$X3 _ 9 ' 2 ' 94 X4 92 t1 9E ; 94 212 9S 6 -9 G13_ 9t5 T7 954 14and 9gS 8_ 954 At the end of fifteen minutes he was taken out and stood three minutes , naked , -exposed to the north-east wind , at the end of which time the fmercury had sunk to 88 ' .
A draught of ale was given him and he was put into a warm bed ; in three minutes after the mercury rose to 9gg .
An hour afker .
9 his heat was 9S * The etiects produced by this alternate exposure to water and air of the same temperature , gave a new direction to my thoughts , and determitled me to inquire again into this singular phaenornenon .
The most obvious method would have been to have prolonged the process ; of alternation , and replunged the person cooled by the es.ternal air into the bath ; but this vas running too great a risk , unless some more sudden and certain method could be fbund of restoring the heat that might be lost .
It was prudent , therefore , to proceed more cautiouslyIn the next exI3eriment I resolved to try the methods of heat ing as well as cooling the body .
X EXPERIMENT ItI .
X ( )n:the following clay , at the same hour , the same person was again immersed in the salt-water bath His heat previously was 9-8 ' , his pulse joo .
The teluperature of the air md the atmosphere , as before , +4 ' .
The mercury sunk ra -pidly to go ' .
s millutes after 88 ' jo minutes after 94 ' S 88 ] ___ 943 + 88 2 r2 9tS 3 9 ' 23 g6 : 6 92 14:96 7t 92 o^5 / 96 S 94 16 96 9 94 He was nomr taken out and stood in the wirsd three m ; . .
nutess shivering violently .
This circumstance rendered it difL ficult to ascertain exactly the fall of the mercury , which was , however considerablev When examined in the room in which he undressed , it stood at go ' .
He was now plunged into a fresh-water warm bath , heated to 97'- .
What ss very surprising the mercury fell two degrees .
The following table will:show the progress of the return off his heat .
l min. after immersion minutes after 9+t in the warm bath , 6S -96 mercury 88 7 96 2 minutes 92 8 96 3._ 92 g , oo , &lt; o ?
, to 16 , 96 4 94 If the rise of heat in the cold bath at 44 ' , and the warm batlJ at 97'2 be compared , the first will be found more slow ; but that after being sixteen minutes in the one and ill the other , the heat VvJaS the same in both cases , when taken at the moutil It must , howsester , be acknowledged , that in the cold bath , the extremities were chilled and cold , while itl the hot baths the heat was equalltr diffused .
When EDWARDS got out of the hot bath , hea put on his clothes , and was remarkably alert and cheerful tEwe whole evening .
Encouraged by the safety of these experiments , I resolved to irlcrease the time of immersion in the cold bath , and to inquire xzore generally into lts effects on the serlsations , as well-as heat , E XPE RI MEANT IV .
At the same hour of another day , the same person was again -smmersed as before , his heat previously being 97'2 and that of the water 42'e Wind north-easts and brisk .
1 minute after , heat go ' zg mi:-lur:es 2 minutes 92 -l*g S 92 14 : 94'z + 92 4XG to 2+ , S__ 92 2-S 94 6 92 2 26 , 27 94 28_9 r , 9 , , 1t 94 29)So 94 It vtill be observed ) that in the aboure table there are blanks left in the report .
At such times the thermorneter was taken out of EDWARDS'S tnouth , to admit of his answering the questions put to him .
He said , that on plunging into the water he felt an extreme -cold , hich he could not but think wasZ partly OWiR1g to his being exposed , naked , to the wind be\#163 ; ore ; that this cold diminished , and in a little while he felt comfortable , but that after a while the sense of coldn &amp; ss returned , though less than at iRrst ; diminishing again , but in a less degree .
At length his sensations became pretty fixed .
In this state , when the water was at rest , be should not even have known , by his feelings from the upper part of his chest to the pubes , that he was in water at all His feet and legs were very cold ; 4 so were his hands and artns ; and so also the perlis and scrotum .
He mentioned , likewise , that he felt a cold circle round the upper part of his body , though not constantly On examining into this , I fbund it was greatest at first , and that it extended over the space which ) from the undulationsK left in the bath by the plunge of immersion3 was alternately above and under the surface of the w-ater : when the bath settled , it was little felt ; but hy agitating the fluidy I could ret produce it , at any time when the cold in the extremities was not so great as to yevent its being felt This curious parti allar serves to explain a circumstance much dsvelt on by Mr. AMYAT , in giving an account of his sufferings on the wreck , that what he felt most searerely was the cratnps in the muscles of his hips and cides , parts-which , from his situation on the wreckg already described , mllst have been alternately under and above the surge .
Here I must observe , that the sea did not break over the su*erers all the time they were on the wreck .
The wind moderated , as well as the waves , and for the last fifteen hourss they were llOt at any time overwhelmed or atSleast Mr. AMYAT himself was not .
The cold never abated .
Being all lashed to the eck , they never changedl their positions ; the bodies of those who died occupied the space where they were originally placed .
Mr. AMYAT , therefore , dtlring the whole time sat nearly up to the middle in watern but subject to the variations occasioned bX the motion of the sea .
To return.-When exposed naked to the wi:nd , the mercuryX in this cases sunk as usual five or six degrees , and his shiverings were great .
Desirous of restoring his heat as$peedily as possible , we incautiously heated the hot bath to 104o : bUt aFter being half a IninUte in it , he SCrEamed OUt with painX especially in his extremities , and about his scrotuna .
Wlqerz taken outs his shiverirags almost amoulated to convulsior -The bath was lo^rered to 88 ' and he was replaced in it , and its telzlperatSure progressivelyn but pretty rapidly7 irucreased t ; 0 30Ctte lIE continuecig however , to shiver much his heat ij remairling about 9O ' ; lbut a bladeler svth very hot wsaters being introduced ugader the surEace of the baths and applied close to his stotnach9 the gt304 ffieCtS\VeC instantaneous his sllirreritgs ceasedn and his heat mouslted rapidly to 98 &gt; .
All these experiments haaring been made on one person , I determined to repeat this last on another EXPE RI MEANT V. R. SUTTON t. 19 , of a pale complexion and a feeluler fframe , was immersed in the bath , under the circumstances of the p-receding experiment .
His heat was previously 96o* 2a minute after , heat 92 ' 8 minutes 19. .
2C ) 21 22 2o .
27 $ : 9 3o o 93 It 93 t 9o l 90 9'2 92 _ 92 94 shiverings stillX ditto .
ditto ditto bath heated to lo4* .
789o z2 | - ; xQ _ 4:7 A '93 heated to 108 ' .
Shi.verings .
93 a bladder with very hot water al ?
plied to the stomach 13 -a fi s 94 _ g6 very comfortablee EXPERIMENT VI .
RICHARD EDWARDS , the origirlal subject of experiment , was again immersed in the : cold bath , of the temperature of 4o'^ and remairled in it three quarters of an hour .
His heat previously was 97 ' ; his pulse go in the sninute .
The mercury b.s EXPER IMENT vII* The effects of forty-Eve lminutes itunzersion in the cold saltX 1 : ) water bath , at 4oo , were proposed to be tried on RICHARD SUTTON .
He was lnUcll under the impressions of fear , and his heat previously raised the mercury only to 94t .
The Inercury sunk , as usual , on his immersion , but to all urlusual degree It did not stop in its fall till it got to 83 ' , which perhaps might be in part accounted for by the extraordinary chattering o\#163 ; his teeth , admitting some contact of the air .
It then mounted in the usual irregular\97ayv and at the end of thirteen minutes had got to 9g .
Here it stood for nineteen minutes longer with little lrariation ; at the end of this time it began to fall rapidly , though irregularly , and in three minutes was down at 85 ' .
He had nosr been thirty-five minutes in the waterX and I did not thillk it safe to detain him longer ; we there fore 11urried : him into a warm bath , heated to 96 ' , where he shivered much .
The bathwas heated.gradually to log ' and in this heat he recorrered his proper temperature in abouttsrenty-eight minutes .
Being then put into a warm bed , he fell into a profuse perspiration , which left him in his usual health .
One general remark will serve for the pulse in all these ex periments .
It was not possible to keep the subjects of them from some degree of previous agitation , and this always quickerled the pulse .
The natural pulse of EDWARDS was about 70 in the m:itlute ; but it may be observed , that it was never slower than 845 before immersion , and generally more .
lIowever this might be it invariably sunk to 6aS , or from that to 68 , in the water , beca ; no fir3n , regular , and small .
After being long in the bath , it could hardly be felt at the wrist , but the heart pulsated with great steadiness and due force Irl the last experiment , when the heat surlk rapidly , SUTTON said that he felt a coldness and fai:ntness at his stomach , which he had not perceived before , and when I felt the motion of his heart , it was feeble-and languid .
In some future trials of the eiSects of immersion in fresh water ( one of which I shall detail ) , the same coIdnessat the -stomach preceded a rapid fall of the mercury ; and these facts , together with the effects I found from applyilag a considerable heat to this part hell the body was chilled with cold , convince me that there is solve peculiar connection of the stomach , or of the diaphragm , or both , with the process of animal heat .
Whoever will consider the rapidity with which a dead body would have cooled irllmersed in water of the temperature of 40 ' , may form some estimate of the force with which the process of animal ileat must hav-e acted ill the experiments already recited .
These experiments , hovever , furnish irrefragable proofs of the futility of some of the theories of animal heat .
The increase of heat , in fever , has led some persons to believe that arlimal heat is produced by , or immediately connected with , the action of the heart and arteries ; here , however , it may be observed , that while heat must have been generated in the bath with more than fourfold its usual rapidity , the vibrations of the arterial system were uxlusually slowO Another , and a very beautiful theory of animal heat , supposes it immediately to depend on respiration ; but in the bath , after the first irregular action of the diaphragm from the shock of immersion was over , the breathing became regular , and utlusually slow .
Lastly , the curiotls phenomenon of the heat rising , and falling , and rising again , in the bath , with the body at rest , and the temperature of the surrollnding medium unchanged , is , I think , fatal to those theories of animation which consider the living body as a mere machine , acted on by external povvrers , but not itself originating action , and differing from other machitles only in the peculiarity of the powers which are fitted to set it in motion .
I have said that the temperature of the mediuln cotltinued unchanged , but it may be supposed that the bath was heated a little during the experiments ; it was so ; butbeing exposed , with a large surface , to the opetl air , the wind blowing briskly over it , itstheat was little altered ; in twelve mi nutes immersion it had gained nearly one degree , and in fortyfive tnillutes , the longest duration of any of the experiments , it had gained three degrees .
As this accession was regular , if it had been greaterj it would not have invalidated the foregoing observations .
Many other trials were made on the effects of immersiort ilo water on the human heat , which I shall speak of generally , under the general conclusions which they suggested .
The experiments already recited , suggested to me the notion that in all changes from one tnedium to another of different density , though of the same temperature , there is a loss of animal heat .
I found , however , that this conclusion requires many restrictions .
1 .
My experiments being made on bodies of such very different density as air and : water , do not admit all universal inference of this sort .
2 .
Being all made in a temperature fifty degrees 1lnder the humala heat no certain conclusion can be drawn as to what night happen in degrees of heat much higher , whereit IS probablen the effiects of the change , if it appeared at all might lve Ffg less striking .
It would seem , however , that after a person is long chilled in cold water , the first effect of passing through the external air into the warm bath , is first a fallof heat in the air , and after this a still greater fail in the warm baths followedX -however , by a speedy rise .
-- &gt; The air and the vjrater being equally cold , and both 4t or under , I found the loss of heat in passing from the one to the other to be regulated in the following way. .
If , instead of being exposed nakesd to the urind previotls to irnmersion in the waterg the body was kept warm by a flannel covering the mercury fell mtlch less on the first plunge .
2 .
If , after plunging into the water , the person continued in it only a minut:e or two , a subsequent fall of the luercury did not alwars take place , on his emerging into the air .
On the contrary there was sometimes a rise on such occasions in the mercuryg , especially iit the atmosphere was at resti g. In one irastance , after continuing in the water fifteen minutes , on rising intv the air in a perfect calm , though during a frost , there was little or no seeming ditninution of the heat ; vYhile exposure under similar circumstances ) with a north-east wind blowing sharply , though the air -as many degrees warmer , produced a rapid dimillution .
The effects of the wind i-n dimilaishing the huluan heat are indeed striking , and are not in my opinion explailaed by the common suppositions .
4 .
The loss of heat by a change of meclia , depends much on the rapidity of the change , for the plastic power of life in varying the process of animal heat , so as to accommodate it to the external changes , acts for a time with great celerity , though this celerity seelus to dinzinish with the strengthO EXPERIMENT VIII .
I placed in a large room , where the mercury stood at g6 ' two slipper baths at the distance of six yards from each other .
Orle was filled with cold salt-water of the temperature of 5 ' , the other with water heated to 96O , which was my onvn heat .
Undressing myself in an adjoining rootn by a fire , I afterwards slipped on a loose flannel dress , and descerlded slozvZy into the cold bath , where I : relnairledtwo m-inutes ; I ascended slowly into the-air , and then sunk myself in the wearln bath , where I remained two minutes also : I returned to the cold bath , where I staid two minute-s as before , and removed from it again to the wartn bath .
But during all these chaklges of media and tenlperature , the thermometer with its bulb under my tongue never varied from 96O .
I attribute this partly to the heat of my body being ill some degree defended by the flannel dress , partly to the calm of the air , but clniefly to the slowness of motion in these changes .
It may be said that the time of staying in the d-iSerent baths was not long enough to produce any sellsible change in the heat of circy hting fluids of such a mass but this is not consistelat with malay of the other facts. .
The influense of tlit application af coldwater to the surface of the body on the heat , is in some respects regulated by the animal vigour , as the followingx experiment ^rill show E XPE RI M-ENT IS S. In the same room-I placed a large elnpty vessel : in this two young men sat cIonvnill succession , each oZith the bulb of a thermoneter under his tongue .
A luan s-tanding on a bencll was a bucket of cold salt-water containing four gallonsy poured the whole on the head and shoulders , sulffiering it to run davvll on the rest of the body .
This process took up nearly a minute durings -hlch I examined the mercury , and found it unchanged .
They were both directed to continue sittirg without motion for a minute after , during which , in both instances , the lnercury rose two degrees .
A third , much inferior in vigour , submitted to the same experiment , and the mercllry continued during the ausion of the water unchanged , but in a minute after sunk half a degree .
Irl fevers , where the heat is generally increased from two to six degrees aborre the standard of heaTth , polarilig a bucket of cold water on the head always reduces the pulse ill freqviency , and columonly lowers the heat from two to four or five degrees .
Of this saw lutary practice I hope SOOl1 tO speak at large to the public .
6 .
The pover of the body in preserving its heat under the impressiotls of cold , and the changes of temperature , and of media , seems in sonae measure regulated by the condition of the mindt That fear increases the influence of cold , and of many other noxious powers , will llOt be doubted ; but the state of the mitid to which I allude , is that of sigorous czttention to other objects .
'lthis , it is urell ktiown , will to a certain degree deaden , or , itideed , prevelat the selasation of cold ; and what does this , I apprellend , -prerrents , or at least n7eakens , its physical action .
The astronomer , intent oll the objects of his sublime sciencen it is said , neither feel.s , tlor is injuloed by , the damps nor the chillness of the night ; and in some species of madness , where the ideas of iluagination are too vivid to admit the impressions of sense , cold is resisted to an extraordinary degree .
I have seen a young womanX once of the greatestf delicacy of frame , struck with madness , lie all night on a cold floor , with hardly the covering that decency requires , when the water was frozen on the table by her and the milk that she u1as to feed on was a mass of ice .
7th .
rrhere are particular condi-t ; ions of the atmosphere , not perfectly unclerstood , that seem to have an influece in depriving us more slJeedily of our animal heat , than others w}were the cold is greater .
It may seem that by this time I had renounced my intention of trying the effiects of immersion ill fresh water on the animal powerss and particularly oll the heat .
Some trials I have , however , made , of which I shall only relate the folOWltlgx EXPERIMENT X. In the same vesselX containing an equal bulk of fresh waten RICHARD EDWARDSX the subject of my first experiments , vras immersed , at the same hour of the day .
; 0His heat previously was 98'- , his pulse beat 92 in the minute : the heat of the air nZas 41 ' , that of the water o. The wind vas llow in the west , so that in the court where the bath stood there was a perfect calm .
As I had some fears of the issue of this experiment instead of exposing him for a minute naked to the wind before immersion , he was covered with a flannel-dress from the air till the instant he descended into the water , into which he was suSered to sink hi1nself slowly , with the bulb of the ther-2 motneter under his tongue These are important circum stances The following table e ; xhibits the resuIt9 Immediately on immersiona s rsn z4 lnin after , 1,5 16S-1y , 18 , of 21n 22 , 23 2Z 25 26 ' 27 28z , 2:9 So S 32 33 34 heat o 96 j 96 96 heat __ 98 1 minute aftez g minutes 34 t , 7 , 89 so .
, 11F llv IS , 1.3 r972 97 98 972 g6 90 f 99 97 * aX L/ 95 94 _ 93 I 94 94 _ 92 o He now got out into the air very slowlyX and stood in it three minutes the wind not blowing on hitn .
He lost one degree of heat at first which 11e recoveredX He was then put into a wwartn bath at 90 ' wehicll at first lpe felt warm and his feet and hands were pained : but in two ltinutes he fbll into a very violent shiver ) and his heat fell two degrees .
The batll was then heated to 9S and 96 ' but still he felt cold .
It was heated to 99 ' : he continued in it five tninutes , and his heat was 9l'e The heat was gradually raised to lo6 ' , when the sense of coldness of which he had comp}ained at the pit of the stomach gradually wJent off .
Before this I had usually kept him in the warm bath till his natural heat was nearly recovered- , but a:iter being half an hour in the heat of oo6 ' &gt; his own heat was still 93 ' .
He now became sick and very languid a cold sweat co =vering his face , his pulsevery quick and feel3le .
He was removed into bed ?
but passed a feverish nightg and next day had wandering pains over his body , with great debilityX resembling the beginning stage of a feverw Bt7 cordials and restJ this went Off\#162 ; This experiment clearly etlough colafirins the greater danger of being wet with fresh than sal-t water ; but itl itself points out nothing certain besides , except that it is laot to be rashly repeated .
I mean to try some of these experiments to a greater extent oal the brute creation , when I have procured thermometers better suited to my views .
The thermometers I enlployed had not a suffilcient mobility for very nice experiments ?
allcl I am well aware that in particular illstances this nay have misled me , though the gelaeral results , which is all that is of importance in such eAxperiments as these , will , I hope , be found just and true .
Before I concltlde , I must offer a few obserarations on the subject that led to these experiments. .
It is , I thinli , already well krlosvll among sealueIz , that vsthere there is only the choice of being vwet with salt or fresh water , it is always safest tQ prefer the first Ill the heavy showers of rain , llail , or snow by which gales of wind are ge nerally accompanied , the men that must be exposed to them , ought , like Lietltenant BLIGH and his crew , to vritzg their clothes out of salt-water. .
In all cases where men are reduced to such distress by shipwreck or otherwYise , that they can only chuse betweetl tlUle alternative of keeping the l ; mbs constatltly ilutnerged in the sea , or of exposing them to the air while it rains or $1]0WS , OF thetsea is at t-ilnes uashing over them , it is safest to prefe &lt; a constallt immersion ; becausen in the laorthern regions where the cold becomes dallgerous to life , the sea is almost always war-mer than the air , as the experiments of Sir CHARLES DOUGI , aS show ; and because there is not only a clallger from the illcreased cold produced by evaporation , but also from the loss of heat by the rapid changes of the stlrrounding medillm , as the foregoing experiments point out. .
NVhether , in high and coldzwinds without rain or snow , and where a situation may be chosen beyond the reach of the vaves , it is safer to colltintle in the air or to seek refuge in the sea , must depend UpOll several circumstances , and cannot perhaps be certainly determined .
The motives for choosng the sea svilI be strorlger in proportion as the wind is high andcold , and in proportion as the sllore is bold..\ The foregoing narrative shows that men may survive twen ty-three hours immersiola in the sea , of the temperature of g8 ' or ato'(as great a cold as it almost ever possesses ) without food or water , and almost without hope of relief ; but ; that any man ever survived an equally long exposure to the higher degrees-of cold of the atmosphere , ill the same circumstances3 does not appear .
Though in the case related , immersion in water did notV prevent thirst , yet there is no doubt that it alleviated it , a circumstance of high importance touards the pre wrvatioti of life .
Liverpool , I)ecember 2s , 1 79 t. P. S. I have purposely avoided any reasoning on the causesof the loss of vital heat on the change of media in the experiments recited It may be supposed that during immersion , the water immediately in colltact with the skirl having become heated to a certain degree , the naked bodya on rising from it into the air , was in fact exposed to a colder medium , and thus the loss of heat , in this instance , produced .
My examination of the heat otf the water during immersion not luving been made in contact with the body , I vYill not deny that there is some foundation for the remark ; and the cases ) it must be allowed , are by no means exactly parallel between imtnersion ill an open vessel , llonvever large and immersiotl ixl the sea , where the constarlt urldulation may be presu-med to occasion a contirlual change in the surrounding fluid .
But whatever allowance may be made for the circumstance mentionedv I am perslladled that the diXerence betweerl the density of air and water being considered , it is llot sufEcient to explaill the loss of heat in the lnstance allu(led to .
The changes Of tetnperature in the living body are governed by laws pe culiar to it-self I have found , in certaitl diseases , greater and $uddeller variations than any mentiorled , from applicatiolas of cold very gerltle in degree and momentary in duration .
It1 his masterly s ; Experiments and Observations on Anitnals producilig Heat , } ' Mre HUNTER has objected to taking the heat of the lluman body by introducing the bulb of the there ulolueter into the mouth , because it may be affected by the cold air ill breatllislg .
The olqjection is well founded if the bulb be placed on the upper surface of the -tonguen but if it be under it and the lips shutX the eSects of respiration may be disregarded , as I have found from many 11undred experiments .
The heat may be observed in this way with ease and certainty , by employing thermotneters curved at that end tc ) which the bulb is affixed ( the bulb being introduced at the corner of the mouth ) some of which have been made for me by Mr. ITAM8DEN according to a form given , as well as others -on Mr. HUNTER'S plalz .
From repeated trials it appears to me that hen the usual-elothing is on , the heat of the lisring lsody may be takenn with nearly the same result and eclual L -Gg M certainty , under the tongue with the lips shut , at the axilla with the arm close to the side , and in the hollow beteteell the scrotum alsd the thigh ; every other part of the surface is liable to variation and uncertainty .
It is evident that of these three methods , the first only can be elnployed ( as far as I can discon7er ) when the trunlr of the body is iminersed in water ; and even vxhen the naked body IS exposed to the cold air- , the first metilod seems the best , the heat remailling most steady under the tongue : the axilla is thenext best in orcler , and the worst , the lovirer part of the groin ; for the scrotum and the parts of generation lose their heat otl the application of cold more speedily perhaps than a21y other part of the bodyX the extremities not excepted .
N. B. The water employed ill the experiments related , contained salt in the proportion of one to twellty-four .
Instead of saying that the men saved were most of them nattves of Carolina , I find I ought to have said , men long accuse tomed to that country and other warrll climates ltlt laot moA of themf nativese

