]\gt ; The Rev. Canon Moseley on the [ Feb. 2 , order to determine the capacity of the sliding condenser at the lower mity of its rnnge , a spherical condenser , so constructed that its capacity could be accurately determined in absolute measure , was employed .
An apparent discrepancy in the results obtained , arising from an inequality the condeusers the platymeter , is then considered , and the method of deducing the true result investigated .
A series of experiments is then described which as the specific inductive capacity of paraffine , that of being taken as , but failed to show whether this alters with iations of temperature .
An improved form of condenser , composed of brass cylinders with palaffine for the dielectric , and the resuIts obtained from it , are then described .
The mensurements made at different temperatures show no variation of specific inductive capacity .
In order to thow to the ffine freedom of expansion lvih temperaturc , nother form of condenser ) and the resuIts obtained .
A of experiments was then made on the expansion of par , with tempera ture , in order to nate the effect of this upon the capacity of paraffine condensers .
As a mean of the results , it was fotlnd that the linear expan sion of paraffine at C. is 000237 per .
Some further measurcments of the cylindrical condenser were made with the same result as before .
Thus all the measurements of this condenser made at temperatures ranging from to C. show no variation of specific inductive capacity of paraffine with te1nperature .
was found to be , thnt of air being taken as unity .
In a note added to the .
a descl.iption is given of an improved form of sliding condenser .
On the Uniform of a Liquid By , D.C.L. , Canon of , F.R.S. , and C IIember of the Inlstitute of ance .
Rcceived Decembcr 1 , ( Abstract .
) cc of evcry molecule of a liquid at rest which a solid ( by through it ) disturbs , contributes its share to the resist which the solid experiences ; so that the iuertia ol each molecule so disturbed and its shear must be taken iuto account in the , which represents the resistance the liquid offers to the motion of the solid .
motions communicated to the molecules of a liq'lid by a solid passing through it , and resistances opposed to them , how.ever , so various , so difficult to be represented tically , that in the present state of our knowledge of hydrodynamics the pl.oblem of the resistance of a liquid rest to a solid motion is perhaps to be considered insoluble .
As itl.egards the of the resistance of a solid at rest to a in mot on ( as in the of a liquid conveyed through ) , there ltre in like manner to ) taken into nccount the by rc1871 .
] Uniform Flow of a .
287 sistance in what would otherwise been the motion of each dividu molecule of the liquid so disturbed .
This problem , howevet , is by no means so difficult as the other .
There is , indeed , a case in whicl1 it ndmits of solution .
It is that of a liquid flowing from a reservoir , in which its surface is kept always at the same level , through a circular pipe which is perfectlv stl'aight , of the same diumeter hout , and of a liform smoothness or rougbness ofinternal surface , and full of the liquid .
The liquid would obviously in such a pipe arra1lge itself in finitely thin cylindric films coaxial with the pipe , all the molecnles in the same film moving with the same velocity , but the molecuIes of different films with velocities vary .
, from the axis of the to its internal surface .
The direction of the motions of the molecules of such a liqnid being known , and all in the same film moving the velocity , which velocity is function of the dius of the of the resistance of each film to the slipping over it of tlIc film [ eing assumed to be known , as also the head of , it is ] ) ossible to press mathematically ( 1st ) the work done of time by the which es motion to the liquid , and ( 2nd ) the work per unit of time of ) sevcral resistances to which the liquid in moving through the is subjected , and ( 3rd ) the work accumulnted per unil of in the liquid which esc ) and thus to constitute an equation in which the iables are the radius of any giveu film , and the velocity of th film .
This equat on ' differentiated and the variables scparated , and the resulting dlfferen ti equation being integrated , there is the formula ' where is the velocity of the film whose dius is that of the central filament , the length of the ] ) \mdash ; the un it of metre , and of one second .
method by which the uthor has at this formula is ) lially the same as th which he befol.e used in a paper rend before the Society ou the " " Impossibility of the Descent of Glaciel .
S by their weight \ldquo ; which ) he believes to be a method new to mechanical sciencc .
It was indeed to vcrify it its npplication to liquids he undertook the ntions w submits to the Society , which , however , hc has pursued their objcct .
The recent experiments of } supplied him / , ith the menus of this verification .
These expcriments , made admirable skill precision , on pipes of 100 metres in length , and varying in diameter from to , under hcads of water Rccherches talcs rolatives vcment t lcs par II .
Darcy : Rocl)erchos 1 MM .
Darcy ct : The Rev. Canon Moseley on Uniform Flow .
[ Feb. $ ; in height from to , include ( together with numerous experl , ments on the quantity of water which flows per second from such pipes under different conditions ) experiments on the velocities of the films of water at different distances from the axes of the pipes , made by means of an improved form and adaptation of the well-known tube of Pitot .
These last-mentioned experiments afford the means of verifying the tioned formuIae .
With a view to this verification , the author has compared the formula with sixty of the experiments of M. Darcy , stated the resuIts the first two Tables of his paper .
The discharge per 1ft from a pipe of a given may be calculated from the above formula in terms of the velocity of the central filament .
This calcuIation the author has made , and compared it with the results of eleven of M. Darcy 's experiments .
Where in the formula which thus represents the discharge from a pipe of given radius , in terms of the velocity of the central filament , the radius is made infinite , an expression is obtained for the volume of liquid of a cylindrical form , but of infinite dimensions ( laterally ) , which would be put in motion by a single of liquid which traversed its axis ; and , conversely , it gives the volume of such a liquid in motion which would be held by a filament of liquid kept at rest along its axis .
Thus it explains the well-known retarding effect of filaments of grass and roots in retarding the velocities of streams .
It is the relation of the velocity of any film to that of the central filament which the author establishes in the above formla .
To the complete solution of the problem it is necessary that he should further determine the actual velocity of the central filament .
This is the object of the second part of his paper .
This velocity being known , the actual discharge per is .
The following is the formula lally arived at:\mdash ; discharge per in cubic metres .
radius of pipe in metres .
length of ditto .
head of water .
const dependent on state of the in tcrnal of the pipe .
The values of this constant , as deduced from the of Darcy are given , 1st , for cast-iron pipes ; , for the covered with deposit ; , for the above cleaned ; 4th , for iron pipes coated internally with bitumen ; , for new leaden pipes ; , for glass pipes .
1871 .
] of Exercise upon the Bodily Temperature .
The compares this formula with sixty-two of M. 's experiments , and records the results of this comparison in the last three Tables paper .
paper couclucles with an investigation of the rise in the temperaturc of a liquid a pipc caused by the resistttnces its coaxinl films oppose to their motions on one another ( or , as it is termed , their frictions on one another ) and on the of the The pipc is in this investigation supposed to be of a perfectiy non-consubstance .
February 9 , 1871 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.1 ; .
, csident , in ] ) The following communications were read:\mdash ; I. On the Effcct of Excrcisc upon the Bodily .
) T. .
Cantab .
, F.L.S. of the Alpine Club , \amp ; c. Communicated by Mr. .
Rcccived November 12 , 1870 .
Abstract .
) The object of the author in carrying out the experiments recorded in the prescnt ) was to inquire whether the regulating-power of the ism held good under great variations of muscular exertion .
For this posc he made frequcnt daily examinations of his own temperaturcs short walking tour in Switzerland , and found that the effect of continuous muscular exertion upon himself was to sharpen the curve of daily ination being one or two tenths higher than usual , and the coming on more rapidly and somewhat earlicr .
Charts of the { laily atures were handed in with the paper .
The author made reference also to some observations of M. Lortet , which differed fi .
These hich did not come into Dr. ) 's hands until his own experiments were rtially complcted , Juced by .
Lortet to prove that the hum body its very defccve in lating-power nder the demands of the combustion needed to ) ) force expended in muscular exertion .
Dr. Allbutt 's results were decidedly opposed to those of M. Lortet ; for only on two sions did he note the depressions of temI ) which M. Lortet ards constant .
It ould sccm , } } , that the body is more or less to such depressions muSCul but the cause of them is very obscure .
Of the two low temperatures noted by the uthor , one occurred during very ascent of lower slopes , and the second observed , a desccnt .
author that they ) ) due to some accidental deficiency in combustion , and in whether the cnpacity of the chest in different individuals may ccount for the rying in-

