An Account of some Peculiarities in the Structure of the Organ of Hearing in the Balcena Mysticetus of Linnius .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read December 12 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 83 .
] From the time that Mr. Home discovered the muscular structure of the membrana tympani in the elephant , he has been seeking an opportunity of prosecuting the same inquiry on a similar scale , by examining the ear of a whale , and has at length succeeded in procuring the head of a young whale preserved in brine .
As the skin had been taken off , a portion of the meatus externus had been removed along with it ; but it did not appear that much was lost , as the outward extremity partook of the dark colour of the outer skin of the head .
This passage was 5I inches in length , and only one fourth of an inch in diameter ; but near the tympanum it widened to about 1 incli , and this is the breadth of the membrana tympani itself .
This membrane , instead of being concave externally as usual , is convex , so as to project nearly an inch into the meatus externus .
The membrane consists of four parts : first , a cuticular covering , next a strong membrane , then a layer of muscular fibres ; and lastly , another membranous lining towards the tympanum .
It is remarkable that this membrane has no connexion whatever with the handle of the malleus , as in other animals .
The cavity of the tympanum is of an oval shape , capable of containing a pint of fluid , surrounded by the concave surface of a large bone peculiar to the whale , detached from the skull , and having only a loose connexion with the petrose portion of the temporal bone .
This cavity terminates , as usual , in the eustachian tube , which is 2inches long , terminating by a small aperture , having a valvular structure , and opening into the canal leading to the blow-hole , Within the cavity of the tympanum is a part peculiar to the whale .
This is a membranous fold , or broad ligament , stretched across the cavity , having the form of a triangle , or rather the sector of a circle , the apex of which is attached to the short handle of the malleus , having one side detached , and passing across the centre of the membrana tympani , and its base attached to the concave surface of the hollow bone , at a small distance from the bony rim to which that membrane is connected .
The long handle of the malleus has no connexion with any other part ; but the forms of this bone , of the incus , and stapes are much the same as in the human ear ; there being no considerable difference excepting in the want of the os orbiculare .
The vestibulum , semicircular canals , cochlea , &amp;c. , differ in nothing material from the usual construction of these parts .
From this structure it appears to the author that the membrana tympani , which is subject in the whale to vast differences of pressure from without , is not well fitted , under all circumstances , to convey the nicer vibrations of sound to the ossicula auditus , but that the membrane which projects across the cavity , being exposed to the same medium on both sides , will freely continue , and communicate the impressions it receives , unaffected by any differences of pressure .

