OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; B. b CONTENTS .
Page Sir William Gowers ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
i Richard Lydekker ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
iii Sir John Murray , K.C.B ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
vi David Douglas Cunningham ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xv Henry Charlton Bastian ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... xxi Arthur Sheridan Lea ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xxv August Friedrich Leopold Weismann ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xxvii Sir William Turner , K.C.B ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xxxiv Edward Alfred M inchin ... ... ... ..* ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xxxviii Sir Thomas Lauder Brunton ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... xliv Hugo Kronecker ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xlix Elias Mecznikow ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
li Harold Henry Welch Pearson ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
lx Captain J. W. Jenkinson ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... xlii L Sir WILLIAM GOWERS , 1845-1915 .
Sir Willtam Gowers , whose death occurred on May 4th , 1915 , was a distinguished member of the medical profession , and in particular a neuropathologist of world-wide reputation .
He was born in London on March 20 , 1845 , so that at the time of his death he had completed the allotted span of three score years and ten .
He was educated at Christ Church School , Oxford , and received his medical education at University College , London , where he was a favourite pupil of Sir William Jenner , to whom in his early professional career he acted as private secretary .
Sir William Gowers became a member of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1867 , and took his degree of M.B. , London , with First Class Honours in Medicine , in 1869 , and M.D. , with Gold Medal , in 1870 .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in 1879 .
His first honorary appointment was that of Assistant Physician to the National Hospital for the Paralysed and Epileptic , with which institution he became specially identified , and which he made his principal field of research and teaching .
He was also appointed Assistant Physician and ultimately full Physician and Professor of Clinical Medicine in University College Hospital .
Apart from his neurological work he contributed several articles on diseases of the heart and blood-glandular organs to Reynolds ' * System of Medicine .
' In 1878 he invented a hiemoglobinometer , or instrument for estimating the percentage of haemoglobin in the blood .
This was based on the comparison of a tint of an accurately graduated solution of the blood with a standard solution of picrocarminate of ammonia corresponding to a solution of haemoglobin of 1 in 100 .
The degree of dilution required to obtain the same tint represents the percentage of haemoglobin to that of normal blood .
This method has been generally superseded by Haldane 's modification , in which the standard solution is a 1-per-cent , solution of haemoglobin saturated with carbon monoxide .
The blood to be tested is similarly treated by passing a stream of coal gas through it .
Gowers also devised an improvement of Hayem 's haemocytometer , or instrument for counting the blood corpuscles , by ruling the micrometric squares on the bottom of the cell instead of on the eyepiece of the microscope .
This method , though giving fairly accurate results , has now been generally superseded by the more simple Thoma-Zeiss instrument .
In 1897 he published a work of ' Medical Ophthalmology ' which , with its beautiful illustrations , all drawn by his own hand , did much to popularise the routine use of the ophthalmoscope in medical diagnosis , so strongly advocated by his eminent colleague Dr. Hughlings Jackson more than ten years before .
Sir William Gowers ' first important work in neuropathology was his ii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
' Diagnosis of Diseases of the Spinal Cord/ published in 1880 .
This , though only a small octavo of 80 pages , was a very lucid exposition of the anatomy and functions of the spinal cord , and of the methods of diagnosis of spinal lesions .
In this work he was the first to describe a tract of ascending degeneration in the antero-lateral column consequent on a crush of the lower part of the cord by a fracture of the spine .
It is now known generally as Gowers ' tract , or ascending antero-lateral fasciculus .
There is still some uncertainty as to its exact origin and ultimate destination .
In 1881 he wrote a book on ' Epilepsy ' and other convulsive disorders\#151 ; the substance of his Gulstonian Lectures at the College of Physicians\#151 ; founded on his own observations of several thousand cases , chiefly at the National Hospital .
But his great work , which embraced all his separate contributions to neuropathology , was his ' Manual of Diseases of the Nervous System/ in two volumes .
The first was published in 1886 , the second two years later .
This at once established Gowers ' reputation throughout the medical world as a neuropathologist of the first rank .
It was speedily translated into the more important modern languages .
Three editions of the first volume have been published , and two of the second .
The third edition of the second volume was never completed .
Gowers ' manual , admirable as a text-book\#151 ; concise , lucid and well arranged\#151 ; was not , like many text-books , a mere compilation , but revealed on almost every page the fruits of independent clinical and pathological investigation extending over many years .
The work was admirably illustrated , many of the figures having been drawn by his own hand .
It is not too much to say that no better manual of nervous diseases has ever been written in this or any other language .
It still maintains its position , though many other similar treatises have been published , both at home and abroad .
Sir William Gowers was an excellent teacher , and his clinics at the National Hospital were largely attended by students from all parts of the world .
He had the reputation of being somewhat too dogmatic , but this , perhaps , to the majority , made his teaching all the more impressive .
Many academic and other honours were conferred on him .
He was Fellow of University College , Hon. M.D. of Dublin , LL. D.of Edinburgh , Hon. Fellow of the Boyal College of Physicians of Ireland , Hon. Member of the American Neurological Association , the Netherlands Society of Psychiatry and Neurology , the Russian Society of Medicine , the Royal Society of Medicine of Upsala , and of the Society of Internal Medicine of Vienna .
He was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1887 , and received the honour of Knighthood in 1897 .
Sir William Gowers had a large practice as a consultant , but failing health led to his retirement several years before his death .
In person he was of medium height , spare figure and nervous temperament .
He was not a clubable man , and few of his friends and colleagues ever got to know him intimately .
He seldom attended learned societies , and then only when he Richard iii was invited to deliver some address .
He was a forcible and sententious speaker .
He was a skilful diaughtsman and an etcher of considerable artistic merit .
He was also an expert shorthand writer , and was the founder of the Society of Medical Phonogiapheis , to the pages of whose journal he was a frequent contributor .
He had no active recreations , but in bis holidays spent a good deal ol his time in etching , and in the study of mosses , of which he had an extensive knowledge .
Sir William Gowers married the daughter of Frederick Baines , of Leeds , in 1875 .
She piedeceased him in 191o .
Lwo sons and two daughters survive their parents .
I he death of Sir William Gowers removes from the roll of the Boyal Society one of the most eminent of the physicians who have attained this honour .
D. F. RICHARD LYDEKKER ( 1849\#151 ; 1915 ) .
Richard Lydekker was born on July 25 , 1849 , at 45 , Tavistock Square , London , the eldest son of Mr. Gerard Wolf Lydekker , barrister-at-law , who shortly after his son 's birth purchased Harpenden Lodge , Harpenden , where Richard lived practically for his whole life , and where he died on April 16 , 1915 .
The family was of Dutch extraction , but had been domiciled in this country and connected with Hertfordshire for several generations , Lydekker 's father having been a magistrate in that county , and his grandfather , after being Governor of Martinique , having lived and died at St. Albans .
Lydekker entered Trinity College , Cambridge , in 1867 , gained second place in the First Class Natural Science Tripos , and took his B.A. in 1872 .
Two years afterwards he was appointed to the Geological Survey of India , in whose service he remained until the death of his father in 1881 .
While in India he explored very systematically the mountain ranges of Kashmir , and gained a knowledge of the geography of that complicated region which was afterwards of much use to him in his zoological work , and when the Survey collections in Calcutta were transferred to the newly built Indian Museum , his keen biological bent found scope in the arrangement and description of the series of tertiary vertebrate fossils , to which large additions had recently come from the Punjab .
A permanent record of his work at that time remains in his contributions on the Siwalik fauna in the ' Palseontologia Indica .
' He returned home to England in 1882 after his succession to the family home at Harpenden , where he took up his father 's magisterial work in the iv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
county , and then commenced his long connection with the Natural History Museum , first as a palaeontologist , and later as a worker on recent Mammalia .
Under the auspices of Dr. Henry Woodward , he undertook the preparation of a Catalogue of the Fossil Vertebrates in the British Museum Collection , a publication consisting of four volumes of Mammals ( 1885-87 ) , two of Reptiles ( 1888-90 ) , and one of Birds ( 1891 ) .
While doing this he wrote a large number of palaeontological papers dealing with questions arising out of his study of the collections .
In preparing this work Lydekker was more and more brought into contact with the staff and collections on the Zoological side of the Museum , and when in 1891 Sir William Flower needed a colleague to work up his Encyclopaedia articles on Mammals into a separate volume , he found Lydekker able and willing to help him to do so .
The resulting volume , ' An Introduction to the Study of Mammals/ was perhaps the most valuable work bearing Lydekker 's name , and formed for many years the standard work on systematic mammalogy .
Nor has it yet been superseded by any other .
In a similar way , with Prof. H. A. Nicholson , he prepared the third edition of the latter 's ' Manual of Palaeontology/ one of the best text-books on the subject .
In 1893 Lydekker accepted an offer by Dr. F. P. Moreno , of the La Plata Museum , to go out and examine some of the wonderful series of Mammalian fossils which had been described by Argentine zoologists , especially by the late Senor F. Ameghino , a visit which was of very great interest to him , and largely increased his knowledge of South American fossils .
Great discussion had arisen as to the age of the beds in which the fossils were obtained , notably the so-called " Pyrotherium beds , " and he adopted the view , now generally accepted , that they were considerably more recent than had been claimed by Ameghino .
But in the somewhat embittered polemics between Moreno and Ameghino he declined to take any definite part .
In January , 1896 , Lydekker was engaged to reorganise the Mammalian Exhibition Galleries of the Natural History Museum , which had been up till then in the nominal care of the Assistant in charge of the Mammalia .
The latter 's time , however , was necessarily so much given to the vast and rapidly increasing study collections that little attention could be paid to the arrangement of the Exhibition , in which Sir William Flower took himself such personal interest .
This arrangement , which was in force to the end of his life , was a most admirable one , releasing the Museum Assistant from a work which he had not time to do properly , and giving Lydekker an opening of which he took immediate and continuous advantage .
As a result , the whole Exhibition series of Mammalia has been completely remodelled and enormously increased in extent and interest , and the specimens better mounted and better labelled .
He also similarly rearranged the galleries devoted to Reptilia and Mammals in the British Vertebrate series .
The official guides to these galleries were mostly written and revised by him .
Richard v In connection with his Exhibition work , Lydekker became more and more interested in large Mammals , and , as a consequence , in the sporting side of Natural History , writing constantly for the ' Field ' and similar papers , and gradually becoming the chief referee for all questions connected with the technical side of Sporting Zoology .
And when recently the Trustees decided to publish a Catalogue of Ungulates on the same lines as the other technical catalogues , a work which for various reasons was of quite unusual difficulty , it was entrusted to Lydekker as the chief authority on the subject .
Commencing it in 1913 , and working with his usual celerity , he had practically finished it by the time his fatal illness ended , working on his sick bed at the proofs of the fourth and the MS .
of the fifth and last volume .
Side by side with the Exhibition and Catalogue work , Lydekker prepared for 27 years ( 1887-1913 ) the Mammal part of the ' Zoological Becord/ for which his genius for hard work and his wide knowledge of Mammalia made him peculiarly suitable .
He also took very great interest in Geographical Zoology , his ' Geographical History of Mammals ' ( 1896 ) being one of the best books on the subject .
The most striking characteristic of Lydekker was his ceaseless activity in publishing work on the subjects he was interested in .
Technical or popular , an absolutely unbroken stream of writing came from his pen from the early nineties to the date of his death , and it is probable that no scientific writer has ever produced so much in the time as he did during the last 20 years of his life .
Though much of it made no pretension to be of permanent value , all shows how intensely interested he was in every branch of his subject , and how wide his sympathies were with other workers .
Personally , the writer of this notice has found him again and again the one zoologist who could give intelligent interest on technical points to which few modern mammalogists trouble to pay any attention .
On all such technical matters\#151 ; as , for example , the wonderful dentition of the Manatee , which he worked out in conjunction with the writer , the ancestry of the Sirenians ( see ' Proc. Zool. Soc. , ' 1892 ) , and other similar subjects\#151 ; his interest was intense and helpful , even if the exigencies of his life led him to devote most of hiti publishing energies to the more sporting and popular side of Zoology .
In official matters he was ever helpful , and ready to do anything he was asked .
His rapidity of work was phenomenal , but , unfortunately , in conjunction with a somewhat illegible handwriting , this brought its penalty in a rather undue proportion of misprints and lapsus calami , such as a slower worker might have avoided .
On this account some of his writings hardly do justice to his really great knowledge of his subject .
At home at Harpenden , besides his unceasing writing work , his occupations and amusements were chiefly stamp collecting , walking , gardening , and carpentry .
In youth he had been fond of shooting , but was never bitten with the craze for games of any sort , though he took a sympathetic interest in the sporting careers of those who were .
In person he was tall , over 6 feet in height , handsome and well VOL. lxxxix.\#151 ; b. c VI Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
proportioned , with light hair and bine eyes , his foreign ancestry coming oat in a somewhat Scandinavian or North Dutch appearance .
In politics he was a keen Unionist and Imperialist , but , beyond occasionally presiding at the Harpenden meetings of the party , he was not a demonstrative politician .
He joined the Zoological Society in 1880 , and served on the Council in 1898-1900 .
He was elected a Fellow of the Eoyal Society in 1894 .
He married in 1882 Lucy Marianne , elder daughter of the late Canon 0 .
W. Davys , Eector of Wheathampstead , and had two sons\#151 ; of whom the younger has fallen on behalf of his country and the elder is now serving\#151 ; and three daughters .
0 .
T. SIE JOHN MUEEAY , K.C.B. , 1841-1914 * Sir John Murray was born on March 3 , 1841 , at Coburg , Ontario .
He came of one of those Scottish families that have done so much for Canada , and , indeed , throughout his life no one would have mistaken him for anything but a Scot .
His father , Eobert Murray , an accountant , had left Scotland seven years before and settled in Upper Canada , where during the troublous times of the Mackenzie Eebellion he took an active part in Canadian politics .
John was for a time at the Public School of London , Ontario , and later at Victoria College , Coburg .
When he was seventeen years old he left Canada and , as he has himself reminded us , he then for the first time saw the sea whose problems he was destined to make his own .
When he left that early home , he says , " to find another amongst my relatives in Scotland , I had not yet seen the ocean .
The voyage across the Atlantic made a great impression on me , so different was the salt , rolling sea from the great fresh-water lakes with which I had up to that time been familiar , and I was fascinated by the operations of the officers on the bridge when taking the altitude of the sun at each mid-day .
" On witnessing the rise and fall of ' the tide for the first time on the West Coast of Scotland , the impression was still more profound .
John Murray found a new home amongst his Scottish relatives , one of whom was John Macfarlane , his maternal grandfather , at Coney hill , * In writing this short memoir of my friend I have been greatly helped by Mr. Laurence Pullar , of Bridge of Allan and Bridge of Earn , by Dr. Hugh Robert Mill , by Dr. J. Sutherland Black and by Mr. James Chumley , who for many years was Sir John Murray 's chief assistant .
Sir John Murray .
vii Stirlingshire .
He helped his grandfather in purchasing and collecting specimens for a museum , the remnants of which are still exhibited in the Macfarlane Institute at Bridge of Allan , many of the labels being in Murray 's handwriting .
Whilst living with his Scottish relatives he attended the High School , Stirling , and here he showed great interest in science .
He used to pay especial attention to the teaching of Mr. Duncan Macdougall , from whom he learnt the principles of the sextant and how to construct an electric lamp and a battery of 80 Bunsen cells .
Murray remained for a long time at School and College .
In fact , as he himself records , he came to be known as a " chronic student " at the University of Edinburgh .
One thing he would not do , he would not go in for examinations .
He learnt what he wanted to learn , and the mere learning was to him its own reward .
At the University , although in the main he followed the Science course , he was not infrequently to be seen in the lecture rooms of the literary professors and from time to time in those of the theological professors .
Amongst his student friends more than one have made a mark on the theological thought of the last half of the nineteenth century .
Occasionally he even listened to Law .
His Zoology and Anatomy he studied under G-oodsir and Turner , the present Principal , whilst he worked at Chemistry with Playfair and Crum Brown , and at Natural History with Allman .
But undoubtedly the teacher who made most mark upon his mind was Prof. Tait , in whose laboratory he worked for several terms under William Thomson , ( afterwards Lord Kelvin ) , Clerk Maxwell , and with his life-long friend , Robertson Smith , who at that time was demonstrator to Tait and was writing more than one mathematical paper of note .
Later Robertson Smith became a distinguished Semitic scholar , one of the editors of the 9th edition of the ' Encyclopedia Britannica , " and after a theological controversy with the Free Church of Scotland a Professor of Arabic in the University of Cambridge , and , finally , University Librarian .
Tait was then , perhaps , at the height of his reputation and many students of various sorts were attracted to his laboratory ; Sir John Jackson and Mr. Meik , the celebrated engineers , were amongst the young physicists , and curiously enough Robert Louis Stevenson was another .
The last named , however , had no interest in science and used to beguile his demonstrator , Robertson Smith , into theological disputes , so dear to all true boots .
Murray was always a great individualist , and he worked at what interested him with no eye to examinations or degrees , and although in later life he must have been surfeited with honorary degrees , as a student he passed by the examinations and the consequent degrees and never graduated .
In the year 1868 , in a spirit of adventure and on the strength of having attended medical classes in Edinburgh , Murray accepted the post of surgeon on the whaler " Jan Mayen .
" He left Peterhead in February , and was away seven months .
He saw a good deal of the Arctic regions , explored part of Spitzbergen , and landed at least once on Jan Mayen .
During his c 2 viii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
absence his grandfather died , and Murray arrived home two days after the funeral to find that\#151 ; unlike Loudon Dodd\#151 ; he had been cut out of his grandfather 's will with less than the proverbial shilling .
It was the experience he gained on this Arctic voyage and during his subsequent work on the West Coast of Scotland in the years 1869 and 1870 which qualified him for his next post .
Murray 's great chance in life came when the Government decided , on the recommendation of the Royal Society , to equip a surveying ship , the " Challenger , " for scientific research and to send her round the world .
" The 'Challenger ' was a spar-decked corvette of 2306 tons , with auxiliary steam to 1234 horse-power , " and was well adapted for the scientific purposes to which she was devoted for four years .
The scientific staff was under the direction of Prof , ( afterward Sir ) Wyville Thomson , of Edinburgh University , and at first John Murray was not included on it ; but at the last moment , owing to the failure of one who had been chosen , on the earnest advice of Prof. Tait , John Murray was selected for the vacant post .
Tait especially dwelt upon the fact of Murray 's resourcefulness and readiness , and considered he would be a very useful man to have at hand in case of any difficulties with natives or other possible sources of trouble .
It was characteristic of Murray to embark on such an enterprise at a moment 's notice , when there was almost no time to get together his scientific or personal " kit .
" But the science of the depths of the sea and the science of oceanography were in those times inchoate .
The first great expedition to investigate the physical , the chemical , the geological , and the biological conditions of the great ocean basins was sent out in 1872 by the Government of this country , then under Mr. Gladstone , and in that year H.M.S. " Challenger " left England with a staff of scientific observers to traverse the salt waters of the globe .
From that date until the present time no such complete and organised a staff of scientific observers , helped in every way by the naval officers ( for it was an Admiralty Expedition ) , has left any country for so prolonged and exhaustive an investigation into the economics of the ocean .
The " Challenger " Expedition set a standard\#151 ; in fact it practically established a new science , a science of which Sir John Murray was , in a way , the arch-priest .
The " Challenger " Expedition had predecessors , though on a much smaller scale .
Maury had done a great deal in the way of the study of the ocean , especially in so far as concerned its depth and the ocean currents .
Dr. Wallich on H.M.S. " Bulldog , " surveying the route for the proposed Transatlantic cable , added much to our knowledge , and there were others .
The immediate precursors of the expedition of the " Challenger " were a series of voyages made by the " Porcupine " and " Lightning " under the scientific guidance of Dr. W. B. Carpenter , Mr. Gwyn Jeffries , and Prof. Wyville Thomson .
Dr. W. B. Carpenter took an immense interest in the question of deep-sea temperatures , and read a number of papers to the Royal Society dealing with all existing data accumulated down to 1870 , and Sir John Murray .
ix he was one of the leading spirits in stirring up that Society to urge the Admiralty to undertake the " Challenger " Expedition .
At the Admiralty they were aided by the then hydrographer , Admiral G. H. Eichards , who was extremely sympathetic with the work .
As the introduction to the narrative of ' The Cruise of the ' Challenger ' ' recites : " The vast ocean lay scientifically unexplored .
All the efforts of the previous decade had been directed to the strips of water round the coast , and to enclosed or partially enclosed seas .
Great things had certainly been done there , but certainly far greater things remained to.be done beyond .
This consideration led to the conception of the idea of a great exploring expedition which should circumnavigate the globe , and , if possible , find out the conditions of life at the surface of the sea , at the intermediate depths , and also at the profound abysses of the ocean .
Sir John Murray 's main interest in the expedition was at first physical and geological rather than biological , though he soon acquired a real knowledge of animals , at any rate in so far as they affected the problems which appealed more nearly to him .
" He was an adept at criticising machines and instruments which plumb the secrets of the deep , and as soon as the results of his researches on the bottom of the deep sea had appeared he was recognised at once , and as long as he lived , as the authority on the deposits covering the floor of the ocean .
Sir John was no specialist .
He had ever the widest point of view of the chemistry , the physics , the geology , and the biology of the ocean , and to him these varying sciences always had their full value in the problem which he had made his own .
He was constantly devising new sounding apparatus for bringing up samples of the sea bottom , thermometers for testing the bottom temperature , instruments for registering the pressure at great depths , and other implements which have made our knowledge of the depths of the sea accurate and even minute .
The ship sailed from England , quite at the end of 1872 , with John Murray on board as Naturalist at a salary of \#163 ; 200 per annum .
From the time of its departure Murray gave especial attention to the various oozes and other deposits which compose the floor of the ocean , and at an early period he came to the conclusion that Bailey , Johannes Muller , Count Pourtales , Krohn , Max Schultze and Ernst Haeckel were right when they attributed certain of the minute shells at the bottom of the ocean to organisms which live nearer the surface .
Murray correlated the contents of the surface tow-net with the results of soundings and found a close relation to exist between the surface fauna of any locality and the deposit which lies beneath it .
Amongst other organisms he paid much attention to the curious coccospheres and rhabdo-spheres , as Murray now for the first time called them .
He devised an ingenious method of abstracting these extremely minute organisms from the sea-water by stretching pieces of fine thread through a bucket of salt water and allowing it to stand for the night .
The examination of the threads next morning showed these organisms entangled among the strands .
Another unfailing source of supply of these curious , and still imperfectly understood , X Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
organisms was the stomachs of the Salps , whose pharynx , fine as its walls are , allowed these organisms to pass through its narrow-meshed sieve .
' The ' Challenger ' Report on Deep-Sea Deposits ' by Murray and Renard was published in 1891 .
It was the first attempt to deal with marine deposits as a whole , and became at once the standard book on this subject , a position it occupies to the present day .
It was in every sense of the word " epoch-making/ ' The amount of research work entailed in the preparation of this monograph was stupendous ; the detailed microscopic study and chemical examination of thousands of deposit-samples from all parts of the world and from all depths , and of the various constituents contained therein , involved the expenditure of much time and labour .
The terms applied to the various types of deposits , with the exception of " Globigerinaooze , " already in use before the time of the " Challenger " Expedition , were devised by Murray on board the " Challenger , " some of them being subsequently more or less modified in collaboration with Renard .
The nomenclature and classification finally adopted by them have stood the test of time .
Notwithstanding the numerous contributions to the subject published in the interval , and the many attempts to improve upon either the divisions , the terms , or the methods originally employed , the " Challenger " Report remains the model and standard upon which all studies of deep-sea deposits are based , and it appears to satisfy all the demands made upon it .
This is conclusive evidence of the abundant foresight , care , and scientific precision brought to bear upon the study of the " Challenger " material and of material collected by other ships up to the time of publication .
Murray came to be recognised as the authority on all matters relating to the floor of the ocean .
His reputation became world-wide , and his advice was solicited on all hands in connection with the fitting out of expeditions and with the scope of deep-sea researches of various kinds .
Needless to say his extensive knowledge and practical experience were freely placed at the service of scientists , and many further additions to our knowledge of the sea and its laws are due to his initiative .
The bottom samples collected by nearly all the surveying ships , cable ships , and oceanographic expeditions of all nations , found their way to the " Challenger " Office in Edinburgh for examination and report , and Murray was thus enabled to bring together a magnificent collection of marine deposits , a collection which is unique in the world .
One may quote here an appreciation of his work given by the well known Arctic explorer , General Greely .
Writing two years ago in the ' National Geographic Magazine , ' of Washington , U.S.A. , General Greely says : " Nearly 40 years since , a distinguished scientist , born on the continent of North America , Sir John Murray of ' Challenger ' Expedition and fame , and one of the eight honorary members of the National Geographic Society , considered the mooted extent of South Polar lands and finally outlined their logical continental form as the continent of Antarctica\#151 ; a fitting and largely accepted name .
This great feat of constructive geography depended on a few Sir John Muxi way .
score handfuls of oceanic ooze from the South Polar seas and scanty bits of rocks from scattered lands .
Whatever doubts remained as to the accuracy of Munay s deductions have disappeared since the cumulative discoveries of Amundsen , Borchgrevink , Bruce , Drygalski , Gerlache , Larsen , Nordenskiold , Scott and Shackleton .
" Secondly , Sir John did much to throw light upon the origin of coral reefs .
At the time of the " Challenger " Expedition Darwin 's theory of subsidence held the field , but Muiray , who proved all things and held fast only to that which he conceived to be true , found occasion to doubt its universal application .
The boing at Funafuti , an island which was especially selected alike by the opponents and adherents of Darwin and Murray respectively as a typical place for investigation , clearly proved that Darwin was right in some places ; there is room enough in the world for some coral islands to have been formed by sinking and others by the rising of the earth 's crust .
Darwin himself always admitted , after the publication of Semper 's memoir , that his subsidence theory was not of universal application .
At the time of Murray 's return from the " Challenger " Expedition , Sir Archibald Geikie , O.M. , was Professor of Geology at the University of Edinburgh , and Murray then attended his lectures .
Sir Archibald helped him in the preparation of the geological section of the " Challenger " Deports , and Murray took an active part in the many excursions which are ever the delight of the geological student .
Sir Archibald has kindly written the following lines:\#151 ; " During the preparation of the geological parts of the \#163 ; Challenger ' Reports we had long talks over the problems suggested by the observations made on the voyage .
He was always an original and suggestive thinker in connection with these problems .
Nowhere are his originality and acuteness more conspicuous than in his discussion of the origin of coral reefs .
Up to this time , Darwin 's explanation held the field , though a few observers had challenged its universal application .
But when Murray published his views , in which he combated the proofs of vast oceanic subsidence and held that all the types of coral reef could be accounted for without subsidence and even with local elevation , he effected one of the most striking revolutions in geological theory which have taken place in our time .
When Alexander Agassiz took up the question and made a prolonged series of expeditions over the coral regions of the oceans he brought a vast mass of fresh material in support of Murray 's opinions .
While I think it quite possible that here and there Darwin 's explanation may be found to hold , I feel tolerably certain , after Agassiz 's ample succession of exploration , that Murray is right for the general origin of coral reefs over the globe .
" Then Murray 's laborious researches into the nature and distribution of the materials that are accumulating on the ocean floor and his classification of them broke entirely new ground in the Dynamical section of xii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Geology .
Many a long discussion he , Eenard , and I had on this subject , and it was a delightful experience to watch how , bit by bit , out of the vast mass of materials collected by the ' Challenger , ' there emerged the clear and impressive generalisations which were embodied in the * Deep Sea Deposits .
' Murray and Eenard , by this remarkable volume , rendered a noble service to Oceanography and to our knowledge of the geological process now in action in the oceans .
" Murray 's later work on the Scottish lakes is another example of his originality and thoroughness .
He not only planned this work with great skill and wide knowledge but , as it proceeded , he threw into the labours of his associates much of his own enthusiasm and devotion .
" During the time that Murray was seeing the " Challenger " Eeports through the press he was engaged with his friend , the late Mr. Eobert Irvine , and others , on a series of chemical investigations upon the secretion of carbonate of lime from sea-water by marine organisms and on the part played in this process by the waste products given off during their nutrition .
He also worked at the bacteriology of the deep-sea deposits , developing the work of the Eussian oceanographers on the sulphuretted hydrogen bacteria of the Black Sea .
The series of papers recording these researches appeared in the ' Proceedings ' of the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh .
The third investigation , referred to by Sir Archibald , on which he embarked in his latter years , was that of the bathymetric survey of the freshwater lochs of Scotland .
The Councils of the Eoyal Societies of London and of Edinburgh had urged the Government to undertake this survey .
The Government did not feel that this enterprise came within the province of the Ordnance Survey Office nor within that of the Hydrographic Department of the Admiralty , but when Murray wanted a thing done , in the long run it generally was done , and he and Mr. Frederick Pullar in 1896 commenced the work and had already published some papers of importance when , by the accidental death of Mr. Frederick Pullar by an ice accident in 1901 , the work was interrupted .
His father , however , Mr. Laurence Pullar , determined to see the work through , and provided a large part of the funds used for this purpose , and in 1902 a staff of assistants was appointed to resume the survey .
For the next four years the surveying work was vigorously carried on , and some 60,000 soundings were recorded from no less than 562 inland lakes .
Biological and physical observations were also carried on during the two following years , and the results of this , the most careful survey ever carried out on the inland waters of any country , were published in six handsome volumes in 1910 .
One would have thought that three such problems as Deep-Sea Deposits , the Origin of Coral Islands , and the Fresh-Water Lochs of Scotland , would have exhausted the energies of any man , but Sir John seems to have been tireless in his activity .
Besides editing the 50 volumes of the " Challenger " Eeports , he was the author of the summary of the scientific results of the .
Sir John Murray .
xiii expedition in two large volumes .
As he records , " The direction of the whole of the work connected with the publication of the scientific results passed unexpectedly into my hands , and I have done my best under the circumstances to place on permanent record a trustworthy account of the labours of this famous expedition .
It has been my earnest endeavour to complete the publication in a manner worthy of the naval position and the scientific reputation of this great Empire .
Notwithstanding troubles , personal sacrifices and regrets necessarily connected with the work , it has been a pleasure and an honour to have taken part in the explorations and researches which mark the greatest advance of the knowledge of our planet since the celebrated geographical discoveries of the 15th and 16th centuries .
" He was never tired of exploring the sea , and in 1880 and 1882 he took part in two expeditions to explore the Faroe Channel in H.M.S. " Knight Errant " and H.M.S. " Triton .
" He established marine laboratories first of all at Granton on the Firth of Forth , and later on the Clyde at Millport , Cumbrae .
Between 1883 and 1894 he was continuously exploring the West coast of Scotland in his small steam yacht " Medusa , " which was specially fitted for carrying on oceanographical investigations , and in these he was assisted by Mr. J. T. Cunningham , Dr. H. B. Mill , and many naturalists .
He never spared himself , and when he was approaching his 70tli birthday he embarked on the " Michael Sars , " a steamer no bigger than an ordinary fishing trawler , with a gross tonnage of 226 and with but 300 h.p. engines , to cross the Atlantic on a scientific expedition , the profoundly important results of which he published in collaboration with Dr. Johan Hjort in the well known book , The Depths of the Ocean .
' He was very capable of getting on terms with the sailor men , and had a thorough knowledge of the sailor 's mode of life and the sailor 's point of view , and , it may perhaps be mentioned , of the sailor 's vocabulary .
Although he became 73 a few days before the tragedy , he seemed , and was , in fact , a much younger man , " good for at least another 10 years , " as a leading physician , who knew him well , remarked to me some weeks ago .
He took a great interest in the project for establishing a meteorological observatory on the top of Ben Nevis .
He was Secretary of the Committee which raised the necessary funds , and largely through his efforts \#163 ; 5000 was soon collected .
He was one of the Directors of the Observatory until , unfortunately , it was closed a few years ago .
For several years he was a scientific member of the Scottish Fishery Board , and he represented the British Government at the International Fisheries and Hydrographic Conference in Stockholm in 1899 , and he was President of the Geographical Section of the British Association in 1899 .
The same year he delivered the Lowell Lectures at Boston , U.S.A. , and again in 1911 he delivered a second course of Lectures at the Lowell Institute .
For many years he ungrudgingly gave his services .as one of the Secretaries and Member of the Council and Vice-President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , and the societies with which he was actively connected are almost as numerous as the honours xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
which in later days were showered upon him .
At the time of his death he was President-elect of the Meteorological Conference to be held in 1914 at Edinburgh , and was actually engaged in making arrangements for a successful meeting the day before his tragic end .
Sir John held strong views on Education .
He had little use for the \lt ; c grand fortifying curriculum " of the Classics , but I shall never forget how indignant he was with me when a few years ago I was unable to produce at almost a moment 's notice a tutor for his son , who was to be at once " a first-class classic and a thoroughly trained oceanographer .
" His son was then reading for the Previous Examination and embarking on a voyage round the world .
Apart from his science , which would have occupied the entire time of most men , Sir John was latterly also interested in commerce .
A bit of material included among a collection of deep-sea deposits from the neighbourhood of Christmas Island in the Indian Ocean enabled him to recognise that that remote island contained valuable phosphatic deposits .
The island was quite uninhabited , but obviously a source of wealth , and he urged the Government to annex the island .
Ultimately they did so , and Sir John obtained a lease of it along with Mr. Ross , of the Cocos Islands .
A company was formed to develop its resources , and Mr. C. W. Andrews , of the Geological Department of the British Museum , was granted leave of absence for a year , and in 1897-8 he visited and explored the island , Sir John paying all the expenses and presenting the specimens Mr. Andrews collected to the British Museum .
The Trustees in 1900 published the result of the researches in a monograph , which is a most interesting record of the indigenous animals and plants of a lonely oceanic island both before the arrival of civilised man and after .
Sir John himself on several occasions visited Christmas Island , and crossed it from end to end .
Valuable deposits of phosphates were found , water was discovered , clearings were made , a railway laid down , waterworks and piers constructed , aerial haulage erected , and houses built .
The island now maintains a population of about 1500 , composed of Europeans , Colonials , Chinese , Malays , Sikhs , etc. , and a flourishing business is being carried on in the export of phosphates .
Plantations of rubber , hemp , coconuts , bananas , papawTs , cotton , etc. , have been established with more or less success .
Sir John always looked upon this development as an indirect result of the scientific work of the " Challenger " Expedition , and an excellent argument for such research work being carried on by the Government .
He knew that His Majesty 's Treasury had received in hard cash within the past 15 years , in the form of rents , royalties , and taxes , a sum greater than the cost to the country of the whole " Challenger " Expedition , and he recalled how , during the time the money was being annually voted for the issue of the " Challenger " publications , many Members of Parliament objected to public money being voted for such a purpose .
To enumerate the various honorary degrees , honorary memberships of learned Societies , medals and decorations of all sorts that Sir J ohn received David Douglas Cunningham .
xv ^uld , 0C\lt ; ^py to ' much space .
The more important of them are set out in Who s Who , but he always held that they were conferred on the Expedition rather than upon himself .
In stature Sir John was short , broad shouldered , with a finely poised distinguished head .
His complexion was fair and his blue eyes piercing !
His was a personality that could not be overlooked in any company .
He was at times brusque , rather domineering , very confident of his own opinion , and he liked to have his own way , and , indeed , he generally got it , but he was most kind and most helpful to his assistants , and he spent his wealth largely in promoting the advance of science .
He was singularly straiglit-forwaid and at times almost blunt , but he did not understand or appreciate the methods of the politician .
If lie was once your friend he remained your friend .
Rather late in life he married in 1889 Isabel , only daughter of the late Mr. Thomas Henderson , of the well known Anchor Line of Glasgow .
He was a devoted husband and father , and although lie had unconventional ideas about the education of his children he was profoundly attached to them , and was never happy unless he had one or other with him .
Sir John Murray was instantaneously killed in a motor accident near Edinburgh on March 16 , 1914 .
A. E. S. DAVID DOUGLAS CUNNINGHAM , 1843-1914 .
David Douglas Cunningham was born at Prestonpans on September 29,1843 , shortly after his father , the Rev. W. B. Cunningham , minister of the parish since 1833 , left his manse and followed Dr. Chalmers into the Free Church of Scotland .
His paternal grandfather , Captain Robert Cunningham of the Berwickshire Militia , was himself the grandson of a former minister of Prestonpans , appointed in 1722 .
Cunningham 's mother was the daughter of David Douglas of Reston , Sheriff of Perthshire , afterwards Lord Reston and a senator of the Scottish College of Justice , son of Colonel Robert Douglas of Strathendrie .
His maternal grandmother was a granddaughter of Lord Craigie , Lord-Advocate of Scotland in 1745 .
She and her husband , who were cousins , both bore the same relationship to Adam Smith , author of the ' Wealth of Nations , ' a moiety of whose library Cunningham inherited .
Cunningham went to school at the Queen Street Institution in Edinburgh , proceeding thence to the University , where he graduated , with honours in Medicine , in 1867 .
In April 1868 he gained a commission in the Indian Medical Service and entered Netley .
XVI Obituary Notices of Fellows .
The interest then taken in the theories advanced in Germany as to the causation of cholera induced the Senate of the Army Medical School to move the Secretaries of State for India and for War to employ on a special enquiry into this disease the two officers who , at the close of the summer session of 1868 , should secure the highest places in the Indian and the Army Medical Services respectively .
Cunningham , who headed the combined list both on entering and when leaving Netley , was the young Indian officer so chosen ; his colleague from the sister service was the late Dr. T. E. Lewis , whose early death in 1886 , after his selection but before he could be elected into the Eoyal Society , was much deplored by his contemporaries .
After a visit to the late Eev .
M. J. Berkeley , F.R.S. , to study the methods of investigation employed by that eminent mycologist , Cunningham in company with Lewis went to Germany to learn the views and master the technique of Hallier and De Bary , and to work for a time under Pettenkofer at Munich .
Returning to England in December the two young officers at once left for India .
They reached Calcutta in January 1869 and were attached as special assistants to the department of the Sanitary Commissioner .
For ten years thereafter both were continuously engaged in important pathological and hygienic studies .
When at their headquarters in Calcutta this work as a rule was done in collaboration ; when they were on deputation in the provinces it was undertaken independently .
The special cholera enquiry originally entrusted to them began from the date of their leaving Netley and lasted until May 1879 , this service being rendered by Cunningham as an officer of the military establishment until December 1874 , when he was transferred to the Civil department for additional employment in general enquiries into other special forms of disease .
His absences from headquarters during 1869-79 included tours in Madras during the cold season of 1870-71 and in North-west and Central India during the cold season of 1872-73 ; the hot weather of 1876 he spent in North-wyest India , that of 1878 in Madras and that of 1879 again in North-west India .
In 1879 administrative considerations induced the Government of India to merge the department of the Sanitary Commissioner in that of the Surgeon-General .
This change of organisation brought to a close the long association of Cunningham and Lewis , so fruitful in useful results .
In anticipation of the alteration the services of Cunningham were placed by the Home department of the supreme government at the disposal of the Government of Bengal , who had resolved to establish a chair of physiology in their medical college at Calcutta .
Cunningham was appointed to this post in June 1879 , but as Lewis had been granted leave out of India and as the work of the new chair did not commence until the opening of the winter session , this appointment was confirmed by the Government of India on the understanding that the Bengal Government would permit Cunningham to carry on certain duties attaching to his previous office until the " return of his recent coadjutor Dr. Lewis in December .
" The professorship of physiology at Calcutta was held by Cunningham from then till the close of his Indian service .
David Douglas Cunningham .
XVII By Decembei 18/ 9 the amalgamation of the Medical and the Sanitary departments had taken effect and Lewis on his return remained the only special assistant in the combined department .
In 1883 , however , Lewis was recalled to England to fill the post of Assistant Professor of Pathology in the Army Medical School at Netley .
Prom the date on which Lewis departed till 1897 Cunningham occupied the position of secretary to the Surgeon-General in the Sanitary branch of the Medical department , and in this capacity , until he left India , performed the duties that had been entrusted to Lewis , in addition to those connected with the professorship of physiology .
During the few years of intermission in Cunningham 's pathological and hygienic investigations the Bengal Government availed themselves of his services in other ways .
Thus in 1879 , when the late Dr. ( afterwards Sir ) G. King , F.R.S. , was deputed to enquire into the organisation of the Cinchona department in Java , Cunningham was appointed to act as superintendent of cinchona cultivation in Bengal in addition to his college duties .
Again in 1880 , when the same officer was on leave , Cunningham was once more appointed to take charge of the Cinchona department and to act besides as superintendent of the Calcutta Royal Botanic Garden .
When Cunningham resumed his official pathological work in 1883 a suitable laboratory , built according to his design , was provided for the purpose in the grounds of the Calcutta Presidency General Hospital .
Here during the next 14 years , save for a break of several months when he served as naturalist with the Tibet mission of 1886 , and during two brief visits to Europe\#151 ; one of these as a representative of the Indian Government at a convention held in Rome to consider international regulations as to quarantine\#151 ; Cunningham prosecuted with success these enquiries into tropical diseases which had already proved of such public value .
His duties at the Medical College compelled Cunningham to make Calcutta , with its trying conditions , his Tesearch-centre .
These conditions were the more severe because his official investigations involved almost unbroken residence and deprived him of the opportunities of change of scene which college vacations are meant to provide .
As a consequence his constitution became ' gradually undermined and in 1897 a severe illness , induced and aggravated by the climate of the Gangetic delta , led to Cunningham being invalided to Europe .
His life , which had been in danger , was thereby saved .
But his health was permanently impaired , his return to the Iropics was forbidden , and in June 1898 he had to relinquish his Indian career .
Later in the same year he settled at Torquay , where , as an invalid , he devoted the rest of his life to his garden and his books .
When the value of Cunningham 's official work is considered , account has to be taken of the circumstances which conditioned it and the object which underlay it , as well as the manner in which it was performed .
It took , of necessity , the form of studies in applied pathology , unconcerned with clinical needs , but intended to provide a scientific basis for sanitary administration .
These studies served their special purpose well and their utility was largely xviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
due to the philosophical spirit which permeated them .
They had always a physiological basis , for Cunningham recognised no distinction between physiological and pathological processes , whether in the animal world or in the vegetable .
The same catholic outlook characterised his unofficial contributions to natural knowledge\#151 ; the by-products of his official work and the recreations of his active intellect .
The greater proportion of Cunningham 's reports and papers bear directly on the cholera enquiry with which he and Lewis were originally charged , and to which he gave undiminished attention throughout his official career .
His pathological contributions , however , include observations on fungus-disease in collaboration with Lewis in 1875 , and on Delhi boil and mycetoma published independently in 1885 and 1895 .
Among questions which attracted his interest as a physiologist or as a consequence of his connection with the Botanic Garden were the action of snake-poison , the subject of papers in 1869 , 1895 , 1897 , 1898 ; the effects of starvation on vegetable and animal tissues , in 1878 ; nyctitropism and allied movements in plants , in 1882 , 1888 , 1895 ; gaseous evolution from the flowers of Ottelia and fertilisation in the genus Ficus , in 1887 .
Among matters where his interest is perhaps traceable to his early intercourse with Berkeley and De Bary were economic studies of diseases in plants , published in 1878 , 1896 , 1897 , and biological studies of parasitic Algce and Fungi in 1880 , 1888 , 1889 , 1895 .
These papers , however , give a very inadequate idea of Cunningham 's work in the field of cryptogamic botany .
For about a quarter of a century it was his practice to deal , on behalf of his friend King , with the countless economic references by government officers and private cultivators regarding plant diseases caused by vegetable parasites .
So effective was this aid that it was not until Cunningham had retired that the Government of India realised the need for the services of a whole-time plant-pathologist .
It is interesting to reflect that , thanks to Cunningham 's private courtesy , they were enabled to avoid an outlay of certainly not less than 18,000/ .
Cunningham 's published papers , however , contain but a small proportion of his observations in fields outside that within which his official work lay .
As a child , the harvest of the fishing craft of Prestonpans had been to him an unceasing source of interest , and such satisfaction as the fishers themselves could accord to his curiosity only whetted his boyish craving for further information and laid the foundation of a habit of observing natural objects which , during his school and undergraduate days , developed into a keen addiction to the study of natural history .
This taste accompanied him to India and from the time of his arrival it was his practice to enter in a carefully kept series of note-books his observations of animate things .
The existence of these records was known to , and the notes themselves were always at the service of , his more intimate friends .
To these it was , therefore , a source of keen satisfaction when Cunningham 's health at length became sufficiently restored to admit of his exercising his literary gift in rendering some part of this accumulated knowledge available in an enduring form to a David Douglas Cunningham .
xix wider circle .
This was done in two charming volumes , published by Mr. Murray , in 1903 and in 1907 .
Throughout his Indian service Cunningham was called upon to take a considerable part in the performance of such public duties as in England are entrusted to men of leisure , but in our great Eastern dependency have to be undertaken , amid their other labours , by hard-worked officials .
Early in his career he was appointed by the Governor-General a member of the Senate of the University of Calcutta .
During his residence in India he was at frequent intervals a councillor of the Asiatic Society of Bengal .
He was for many years one of the trustees of the Indian Museum .
More important still were the services he rendered in connection with the Calcutta Zoological Garden .
This institution , whether as regards the extent and variety of its collection or in respect of the management and health of its inmates , holds a deservedly high place among establishments of its kind .
Cunningham 's interest in natural history had secured him the friendship of the late Dr. J. Anderson , E.B.S. , then superintendent of the Indian Museum and long the honorary secretary to the committee of management of the Garden .
The keen interest which Cunningham 's intercourse with Anderson led him to take in the collection was of a practical kind , and in November , 1878 , he was elected by the committee a life-member of the institution " in consideration of his numerous presentations to the garden .
" In the following year he was nominated a member of the committee of management by the Lieutenant-Governor of Bengal .
Eive years later he became honorary secretary in succession to Anderson , and this post he only relinquished when , some years afterwards , the Government of Bengal appointed him chairman of the committee .
Among the many improvements which marked his connection with the institution none was greater than the provision , on his suggestion and in accordance with his plans , of a research laboratory .
The investigations conducted there included , along with many by other workers , his own connected with snake-venom , whose publication in 1895,1897 and 1898 has already been mentioned .
Cunningham 's work as a teacher was characterised by exact knowledge , clear exposition and singular width of outlook .
His influence on his pupils was marked and salutary .
His constant aim was to train them to use their powers of observation and to overcome the tendency , induced by a prolonged course of literary instruction in a language not their own , to place too much reliance on statements made in books .
His influence on those so fortunate as to know him wras equally great .
A cultivated artistic sense and a fine liteiaiy instinct were in him combined with a methodical disposition of his time and great sagacity of judgment .
A keen student of philosophy , in which field he was a follower of Kant , and a man of wide reading , especially in the history of art and literature and in that of travel and discovery , intercourse with him was felt to be a privilege .
His charm of manner , serenity of disposition and transparent singleness of purpose made him the centre of a circle of devoted friends , who experienced in his company a sense of repose and weie able dimly to appreciate his singular ability to gain the confidence of biids and xx Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
beasts and his still stranger capacity to overcome without effort the shyness akin to suspicion which the European as a rule inspires in Eastern races whose instinctively higher ideals have not become impaired by contact with the essentially material culture of the West .
Probably no contemporary official knew more intimately or was held in higher regard by the Sikh community than Cunningham , who spoke and wrote its language , was learned in its scriptures and beliefs and had won its heart , in his earlier and athletic days , by becoming a redoubtable wrestler in the Sikh style .
The devotion to Cunningham of these soldiers of fortune from the Punjab was as sincere as that of the fishermen of the North Sea , who also regarded him as one of themselves and whose affections he had gained when , a lad in the pursuit of natural knowledge , he had shared their vigils and their hardships off the east coast of Scotland .
His unsought influence was as manifest among the Lepchas and Bhotias of Sikkim with whom he had come in contact ; to be known as his friend was a sure passport to their affection .
But no one was less conscious of this magnetic power than Cunningham himself and the simplicity of character to which it was due enabled him to fulfil as few have done the Greek injunction so to order life as " not to be talked about for good or for evil among men .
" The value of Cunningham 's services to the State was not unrecognised .
Lord Dufferin , when Governor-General , of his own motion appointed Cunningham an Honorary Surgeon to the Yieeroy , and he remained on the staff of succeeding Governors-General until he retired .
In June 1893 he was made a Companion of the Order of the Indian Empire ; after his retirement he was appointed an Honorary Physician to the King .
In 1876 he was elected a Fellow of the Linnean Society .
When he took up the duties of secretary to the committee of the Zoological Garden at Calcutta he was made a Corresponding Member of the Zoological Society ; on his retirement from India , he became a Fellow .
In 1889 he was elected a Fellow of the Boyal Society , and in 1898 his great services to the Calcutta Zoological Garden were commemorated by the presentation to that institution of a bronze medallion portrait provided by his friends .
Cunningham died , after a brief illness , at his residence in Torquay on December 31 , 1914 , and the friends who , four days later , laid his remains at rest , felt how pleasant a page in the book of their lives had been closed , leaving them a memory which cannot die , to " walk in its whiteness the hall of the heart .
" D. P. XXI HENRY CHARLTON BASTIAN ( 1837\#151 ; 1915 ) .
De .
Bastian was one of the oldest living Fellows of the Royal Society , having been elected m 1868 .
He was born at Truro on April 26 , 1837 , and died at Ins residence , Chesham Bois , Bucks , on November 17 , 1915 .
He had a distinguished academic career at the University of London graduating M.A. 1861 and M.D. in 1866 .
For a short time he was Lecturer on Pathology and Assistant Physician at St. Mary 's Hospital , which post he resigned in 1867 tp return to hs Alma Matter , University College , as Professor of Pathology and Assistant Physician to University College Hospital .
He later became full Physician , and resigned in 1897 .
Quite early in his career Dr. Bastian showed the spirit of scientific investigation , and published a monograph on the Anguillulidte , 1865 , of which he discovered 100 new species of one family ; also a monograph contributed to the Linnean Society on Nematoids , parasitic and free .
During his appointment as Assistant Physician to University College Hospital his clear analytical mind was directed towards neurological science , and quite early m 1867 he described and pictured in a communication to the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society a tract in the spinal cord , afterwards known as Gowers ' tract .
In 1868 he was appointed Assistant Physician to the Hospital for the Paralysed and Epileptic in Queen Square , with which institution lie was associated till 1912 .
He became full Physician in 1887 , retired in 1902 , and remained a Consulting Physician , with ten beds , till 1912 .
During this long period ample opportunities arose for the investigation and study of Nervous Diseases , and his many works are remarkable alike for lucidity of exposition , accurate observation and sound reasoning .
Moreover , his works on Neurology reflect his keen critical faculty and knowledge of Psychology .
Indeed , in his writings one frequently sees the influence of his friend Herbert Spencer , with whose works he was most familiar .
In 1869 , Dr. Bastian published in the 'British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review ' the first paper of a remarkable series of observations and deductions on the subject of Aphasia , which , if he had done nothing else , would have sufficed to establish for him a great scientific reputation as a pioneer in Neurology .
In this monograph , entitled , " On the Various Forms of Speech Defects , " he anticipated Wernicke by five years , for he clearly described that affection of speech usually spoken of as " Wernicke 's Sensory Aphasia " ; but if it is desirable to associate any name with any particular affection or disease it should be " Bastian 's Sensory Aphasia .
" From this time onward he continued to publish many valuable monographs and books relating to Neurological Science .
Among the most important are * The Brain as an Organ of Mind , ' International Series , 1882 ; vol. lxxxix.\#151 ; b d xxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
' Paralyses : Cerebral , Bulbar , Spinal , ' 1886 ; ' Hysterical and Functional Paralysis , ' 1893 ; 'Aphasia and other Speech Defects , ' 1898 .
These books are perhaps not read as much as they might be , but to neurologists they are a mine of wealth , not only on account of the clinico-anatomical observations made by Dr. Bastian himself , but also on account of the care with which he has selected cases published by others in support of his views , which are set forth with precision of detail , philosophic insight , and literary skill .
The author made difficult subjects comprehensible to his readers ; and " the forest is never lost in the wood .
" The recent war experience of gunshot injuries to the spine causing concussion of the spinal cord proves the truth of the valuable observation of Bastian , who was the first to show that the knee jerks are abolished in total transverse lesions of the cervical spinal cord .
No one has set forth more clearly than 'this author the doctrine of aphasia , and his views on the subject are widely accepted .
Although schematic , they seem best to fit in with the facts of cerebral localisation as determined by clinico-anatomical observations .
The name of Charlton Bastian will live , with that of two other distinguished Fellows , Hughlings Jackson and Gowers , as founders of Neurological Science in this country .
Dr. Bastian would not himself have accorded to his neurological work the importance that his former pupils and followers have , but would have said that his life work was that upon Abiogenesis .
In 1872 Bastiau published The Beginnings of Life , ' which led to a great and memorable controversy in which Pasteur , Tyndall , and Huxley took part .
Bastian 's views were not accepted by the scientific world .
Still , his experiments showed that some scientific beliefs of his adversaries were not true ; it was claimed that boiling would kill all germs , and that if organisms appeared in Bastian 's flasks after boiling it was due to faulty methods of technique ; but it was subsequently found by Pasteur that desiccated germs in the form of spores could resist boiling .
Moreover , Bastian showed that germs can exist in the living body , which we now know to be true ; although the inference that they arose by spontaneous generation or by heterogenesis is both unnecessary and unlikely .
Dr. Bastian always , however , held an impregnable position when he maintained that living matter must at one time have originated on the earth from non-living matter , and there is no logical reason why this process should not be continuing .
In 1893 Dr. Bastian gave up the Chair of Medicine at University College , London , which he had held for six years , and in 1897 he gave up his post of Physician to University College Hospital , which gave him the leisure he needed to renew his experiments and observations on his life work of abiogenesis and heterogenesis .
He learnt the technique of photo-micrography in order that he might represent faithfully his observations and thus convert the biologists to a belief in them , or at any rate to give heed to his experiments and observations , which he published in four volumes of ' Studies in Heterogenesis/ illustrated by 805 photo-micrographs\#151 ; 1905 and onwards .
Henry Charlton xxiii This work is a monument of patient and honest endeavour to support a lost cause .
He felt deeply the rejection of his papers to the Royal Society One paper he sent January 16 , 1902 , " Note on the Transformation in the course of three or four days of the Entire Contents of the Egg of Senta into a Large Ciliated Infusorium belonging to the Genus Otostoma , " having been rejected , his comment was : " Were the announcements in this paper new or were they true ?
That they were new , there could be no doubt\#151 ; their truth could only be gainsaid by investigation of the specimens .
" In November , 1912 , Bastian read a paper before the Pathological Section of the Royal Society of Medicine , and claimed that elementary organisms will appear in sterilised fluids ; these elementary organisms are found to be associated with well-developed Toruke or with bacteria , which can be shown in the course of a lieu days to be living by the growth and multiplication which they undergo under the conditions indicated on p. 59 of the ' Origin of Life .
Precisely similar associations with growing Tornhe were seen and described in ' The Beginnings of Life/ pp. 281-283 .
He claims that the crucial point of discussion , namely , the introduction of germs by experimental error , or of desiccated germs not having been sterilised by heating , has been put out of court .
This is the essential crux of the whole question .
Is there a fallacy in the technique ?
The possible explanation is that there was a partial vacuum in his tubes , and that when he opened them air containing such germs as Toruhe and other moulds ( which are very common ) entered and vitiated the experiment .
So far no scientist of repute has confirmed his experiments , but lie would have asked , Have they been tested ?
It might happen that , without confirming Bastian s doctrine of lieterogenesis , new facts might be discovered , as was the case when it was found that desiccated germs resisted boiling .
Notwithstanding the fact that 30 years ago the question of " spontaneous generation " was dead to the scientific world , one cannot but admire the courage and honesty of conviction with which Dr. Bastian with such tenacity of purpose and long patient research endeavoured to re-establish his position .
But the technique of bacteriologists had made enormous advances in those 30 years and , however careful a worker is , without laboratory experience and training , unforeseen errors are likely to occur .
As to the origin of living matter most scientists will agree that there is a difficulty in refuting the following statements by Bastian :\#151 ; " When it is said , therefore , that a belief in spontaneous generation would tend to contradict the experience of all mankind , my reply is : That archi-biosis may be occurring all around us , and that from its very nature it must be a process lying altogether outside human experience and never likely to come within the actual ken of men .
" " To ask a person to believe that all forms of life on this planet have during countless ages evolved from the primordial living matter which first .
appeared thereon , and at the same time to ask him to believe that the causes of this evolution through all these ages have been inoperative upon myriads xxiv Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased .
of the most primitive and modifiable forms of life , has always seemed to me , in spite of the attempts at explanation that have been made , most strange and unreasonable .
" It is remarkable how sometimes men of great intellectual capacity and scientific attainments pursue an idea , regarded by others as an ignis fattens , ever leading on yet never reaching the goal .
Whatever view may be taken of Dr. Bastian 's position of eminence as a biologist , neurologists will know him as one .
of a group of pioneers and founders of their branch of the science of medicine .
That he was so honoured is shown by the honorary degrees bestowed upon him .
He was Fellow of the Boyal College of Physicians of London , and was a Censor in 1897-8 .
He was Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland and was granted an Honorary M.D. by the Royal University .
He was a corresponding member of the Royal Academy of Turin , and of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Bologna and an Associate Member of the American Neurological Association .
For many years ( 1884-1898 ) he was Crown Referee in cases of supposed insanity .
In June last he was awarded a Civil List Pension in consideration of his services to science .
He married Julia , third daughter of the late Charles Orme , and had three sons and a daughter .
His widow survives him .
One of his sons is Staff Surgeon in the Royal Navy .
F. W. M. \#166 ; f \#166 ; ' .
' . . .
A .
: , " .
f , . .
, \#166 ; : : ^ ' \#166 ; \#166 ; ' , \#166 ; XXV ARTHUR SHERIDAN LEA ( 1853-1915 ) .
Arthur Sheridan Lea was born in New York on December 1 , 1853 .
He was the son of Mr. J. Lea by his wife , Susan Sylvia Hobbs .
' His father , who lived for some years in America , returned to England and settled at Liverpool .
He sent his son in due course to the Eoyal Institution School of that city .
In 1872 Lea entered at Irinity College , Cambridge , coming up to the University with a school scholarship in Classics and Mathematics .
He became a Scholar of the College in 1875 , took a First Class in the Natural Sciences Tripos in the same year , proceeded to the M.A. degree in 1879 , and took the Sc. D. degree in 1886 .
A short time after taking his Bachelor 's degree , whilst he was still undecided what career to follow , two suggestions were made to him : one that he should become a Master at a Public School , with a probability of a House later on , the other\#151 ; by Dr. Foster\#151 ; that he should devote himself to higher teaching and research in Physiology .
Lea chose the latter , in spite of its meagre pecuniary prospect .
In 1881 he was appointed Lecturer in Physiology and Assistant Tutor of Gonville and Caius College , in 1885 he was elected Fellow of the College , and in 1886 Bursar ; the latter post he only held for two years .
In 1884 he became Demonstrator of Physiology and University Lecturer .
Lea 's special interest was in Physiological Chemistry .
This study , as it was carried on in England in the '70 's and '80 's , did not involve any profound chemical knowledge ; it was mainly concerned with the experimental determination of simple but fundamental reactions of the fluids and tissues of the body .
Lea 's knowledge of chemical theory and methods was more than adequate for the conditions of the time , and to him was due the establishment of an advanced course of Physiological Chemistry at Cambridge which enabled students to keep abreast of the growth of the subject .
In the early editions of Foster 's 'Text-book of Physiology ' the chemical aspects of the subject were given in an Appendix , which was mainly written by Lea .
In the 5th Edition the Appendix was much enlarged by Lea and issued as a separate volume of the Text-book , under the title , ' The Chemical Basis of the Animal Body ' ( 1892 ) .
Lea 's earliest investigation was carried on with Kiihne in Heidelberg .
One may conjecture that Kiihne suggested the work and that Lea overcame its practical difficulties .
Like many other scientific workers , Lea liked the methods of research , and was never more contented than when busy in the workshop .
Kiihne and Lea examined the living pancreas under the microscope and described the changes in appearance which occurred in it during secretion .
Little if anything has been added to their descriptions in the xxvi Obituary Notices of Fellows .
37 years since it was published .
They described also the peculiar arrangement of the blood-vessels in the islets of Langerhans .
In Physiological Chemistry Lea 's research was of a somewhat fragmentary nature .
This , no doubt , was partly due to illness , which broke the train of his thought .
In 1883 he , in conjunction with Green ( then a beginner ) , published some observations on fibrin-ferment .
Their chief conclusion was that fibrin-ferment was not a globulin .
But they pointed out that certain facts were not easily explained on this view , and they proposed to investigate them later .
Lea gave up the investigation .
Green carried it on and it led to the first big step towards our knowledge of the part played by calcium salts in coagulation .
Most of Lea 's other papers were also concerned with the action of ferments .
In conjunction with Dickinson he showed the untenability of Pick 's improbable theory that the mode of action of clotting ferments was fundamentally different from that of ordinary digestive enzymes .
In 1885 he extended Musculus ' observations on the isolation of urea-ferment from the organism of decomposing urine .
This work was an early recognition of the importance of intra-eellular enzymes .
In 1900 he introduced the method of observing the effect of digestive ferments in dialysing tubes kept in constant movement in running water , so that the products of digestion were removed almost as soon as they were formed .
Whilst later discoveries as to the fate of the bodies removed by dialysis showed that Lea 's method was a very partial imitation of the natural digestive processes , he brought out clearly the influence of the removal of digestive products on the rapidity of ferment action , and his general views , though not in accord with what is now known , served at the time as a stimulus to a broad consideration of the relation of digestive products to metabolism .
He published also a paper on spectrophotometry .
Lea suffered from a progressive spinal disease which early interrupted his work and eventually compelled him to abandon it .
For some years he led an active outdoor life .
He was captain in the Volunteer Force , went to Aldershot for special courses on Army Supply , and regularly took part in the competitions of the National Bifle Association at Wimbledon .
He had marked musical taste , inherited from his father , and was one of the founders and the first Treasurer of the Cambridge Musical Club .
More or less of the Long Vacation he spent in cruising round the coast .
These and other activities were gradually curtailed , and in 1899 he left Cambridge and retired to Sidcup in Kent .
There he still followed , to a certain extent , the development of Physiology , and corrected the proofs of the later editions of Huxley 's 'Lessons in Physiology ' and Smith 's 'Veterinary Physiology/ He died quietly on March 23 , 1915 .
He left a wife and one son .
It was with Lea 's ardent approval that his son , at the outbreak of war , at once applied for and obtained a commission in the army .
Lea had to submit to seeing his early promise of high scientific activity August Friedrich Leopold xxvii dwindle away .
He had to submit to the gradual loss of capacity to carry on the occupations of his leisure .
He was one of the most companionable of people , and he had to submit to be deprived of much of the companionship of his friends .
He bore all this uncomplainingly and indeed with almost constant cheerfulness .
His character had a fine touch of fortitude that commanded the admiration of all .
J. K L. AUGUST FRIEDRICH LEOPOLD WEISMANN , 1834-1914 .
August Fpjedpjch Leopold Weismann was born January 17 , 1834 , at Frankfort-on the-Main .
His father was Professor of Classical Philology at a " Gymnasium , ' his mother a refined woman with considerable talent in music and painting .
Weismann , the eldest of four children , looked back upon a simple happy home life and always spoke with great admiration of his parents , holding them up as examples to his own children .
Weismann 's supreme interest in natural history was evident in early boyhood .
He tells us that when he was about 14 his mother asked him what he intended to be , and , when he was unable to give an answer , she went on : " I know what you will be , but I will not tell you lest it should never come to pass .
" Nor could he persuade her to say any more .
Much later , long after her death , Weismann understood and knew that she had recognised the naturalist in him .
She had observed the eagerness with which , as a child , he had collected butterflies and bred caterpillars , and how he was inspired and charmed by all living things .
Weismann 's father did not altogether approve of absorbing interests which naturally tended to draw a schoolboy away from his work .
But he did well as a student , and his father , content with a warning , allowed the collecting to go on .
After butterflies and moths Weismann took to beetles , and , then to plants .
Toward the end of his school days his herbarium contained nearly all the higher plants , including the grasses , which grew wild within a 10 hours journey of Frankfort .
When the time came to decide upon a career many of Weismann 's friends thought that he was intended by nature for a botanist , but his father considered that he ought to choose some subject with better prospects of making a living .
About this time Weismann attended the lectures given by Prof. Bottcher to the Senckenberg Society in Frankfort and was inspired to become a chemist .
But Wohler , who in the holidays often returned to his VOL. lxxxix.\#151 ; B e xxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
native town , advised Weismann to follow the course which he had himself pursued , first studying Medicine and leaving Chemistry as a later possibility .
So Weismann began in 1852 the four-years medical course at Gottingen , and he always afterwards recognised that the Anatomy and Physiology there studied formed an essential foundation for the Zoology to which his life was devoted .
Weismann next became for a year ( 1856-7 ) an assistant in the clinical hospital at Rostock and then for another year assistant to the Rostock chemist Franz Schulze .
Here he came to realise that Chemistry , in spite of his strong inclination towards it , was not the science for which he was born .
He felt not only that he lacked many of the qualities essential for the successful chemist , but that he possessed others , such as the sense of form and order , which were unessential .
In 1858 , after visiting Vienna , he returned to Frankfort and began to practise as a physician , occupying his abundant leisure in histological research .
In 1859 he entered the southern German army as a surgeon and travelled in Italy , tending the wounded in the war which had just been brought to an end by the battle of Solferino .
His travels in this year took him to Genoa , where he first met his future wife .
Returning to Frankfort towards the end of 1859 he soon tired of practice and accepted the post of private physician to the Archduke Stephan of Austria , but before taking up his residence at Schaumburg Castle on the Lahn , he studied ( 1860 ) Zoology in Paris at the Jardin des Plants , and above all spent two months under Rudolph Leuckart at Giessen .
Weismann always felt that these two months were among the most inspiring of his life .
During his two years ( 1861-2)* with the Archduke he had plenty of leisure and was able to begin and in all essentials to complete his first great work\#151 ; on the development and metamorphosis of insects .
Weismann now considered that the time had come when he might offer himself to a German University .
On his 70th birthday he gave the reason for his choice:\#151 ; " When I first visited Freiburg , in the year 1860 , the quiet town , nestling among green vines , with its lime-planted rampart , the clear streamlets in the streets and the splendid Minster , made such a charming impression upon me that I thought , ' If only one could live here !
' And when , , three years later , the question arose of attaching myself to some German University , my thoughts naturally turned to Freiburg .
" He joined the University of Freiburg-im-Breisgau in 1863 as Privat-Docent in the Medical Faculty , teaching Zoology and Comparative Anatomy , which had been previously undertaken as secondary subjects by Prof. Fischer , tha Mineralogist .
There was no proper Department of Zoology\#151 ; only a single room containing the scanty collections .
But Weismann 's energy and success soon led to improvements , and in 1886 a Zoological Institute and Museum were built .
In 1866 he was elected Professor Extraordinarius , and in 1874f Professor Ordinarius , being the first occupant of the Chair of Zoology in the * The years 1861-1863 are also given .
t 1871 and 1873 are also given ; 1874 appears to be the most probable .
August Friedrich Leopold Weis xxix University .
He retired April 1 , 1912 , but still continued to reside in Freiburg .
The happiness of freedom to work at the science he loved was soon clouded by a terrible menace .
In the summer of 1864 Weismann 's eyes failed him .
He suffered as the result of overstrain from hypersemia and great sensitiveness of the retina , which continued for a long time to increase and seemed about to end his whole career .
The loving care and continual help of his wife , whom he married in 1867 , helped him to bear the burden and prevented him from giving way to despair .
He finally sought and obtained leave of absence from duty for two years ( 1869-71 ) , determined to avoid all reading and straining of the eyes .
He spent the winter of 1869-70 with his family in Italy , and there an improvement began and continued on his return , so that he was able to resume his lectures after the interval , and , in 1874 , to return to his researches .
He speaks with enthusiasm of the joy of renewed work .
" I cannot tell you what happiness these labours brought me .
It was the greatest pleasure imaginable to sit again at the microscope and study the minute inhabitants of the fresh waters or of the sea in all their wonderful artistic beauty .
" Weismann also knew well that it was of the utmost importance\#151 ; and especially for himself with his keen interest in general questions\#151 ; to provide by a wealth of precise and detailed knowledge the only secure foundation for philosophic thought and speculation .
After ten years , of microscopic research his left eye broke down , becoming not blind but unfit for further work .
But by this time he had laid a firm foundation of knowledge and had attracted a band of able pupils through and with whom he could continue to work without endangering the power of his right eye .
Chief among those who helped him with the microscope was one of his most gifted pupils , Ischikawa , the eminent Professor of Zoology at Tokio .
Weismann felt that his life had been controlled and directed by the power of ideals , that power which , in spite of the interference of chance , makes a man strive to use his strength where it can achieve most\#151 ; in fact to strike and keep the right path in life .
He felt that it was certainly not by chance that he gave up Medicine and forsook Chemistry and Botany after having studied them\#151 ; it was the power of ideals leading him to make the best use of the capacities with which he came into the world .
Weismann 's friends will recall his fine intellectual head , with the tiled strained look brought on by the trouble with his eyes .
He was tall and strongly built , very fond of walking , and devoted to the country .
The lo\e of living things , noticed by his mother in his boyhood , was strong in him throughout life .
Weismann was not much of a traveller ; once only he left Europe , and then but for a few hours , when he crossed the Bosphorus to Scutari to enter the celebrated cypress forest , and , from the heights behind the town , to look down on the marvellous pageant of Constantinople .
XXX Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased .
As a companion he was charming and sympathetic , possessed of a noble simplicity .
To younger men he was ever generous and kindly , and many in this country will remember the encouragement received from his kindly appreciation .
Weismann found intense delight in the world of art .
On his visits to Italy he studied with the keenest pleasure the works of the great masters .
He was probably even more devoted to music .
" His memory was wonderful , and he was able to keep up his playing of Bach 's works until his eightieth year , although his fingers almost refused to do their work , and his sight nearly failed him .
" With Huxley he might have quoted the beautiful lines of Landor:\#151 ; " Nature I loved , and , after Nature , Art .
I warmed both hands before the fire of life ; It sinks and I am ready to depart .
' ' The words are singularly appropriate to the great naturalist , who " passed away peacefully . . .
while his son was playing some of his favourite music .
" In 1867 Weismann married Mary Dorothea , the eldest daughter of Adolf Gruber , of Genoa .
The second daughter afterwards married another Professor at Freiburg , Robert Wiedersheim , while the eldest living son , August , studied Zoology , and also became a professor at the same University .
In summer vacations the large family used to meet at Adolf Gruber 's beautiful estate on the Lake of Constance , and here Weismann pursued his researches on the fresh-water fauna .
Weismann 's family consists of four daughters and one son , the youngest of the family , who was only four years old when his mother died ( 1886 ) .
His second daughter is married to Professor W. N. Parker , of Cardiff .
Both Weismann and his wife were very musical , and the gift is inherited in a higher degree by his son , Julius Weismann , who takes a prominent place among the younger composers .
His playing was a constant source of joy to his father .
Weismann once asked the present writer what he thought of Bismarck and his policy .
This was before the day when a wretched and bitter old man strove to magnify his own importance by boasting of forgery , and the world was startled to learn that , while condemning folly , it had extended its sympathy to crime .
Would that it had been otherwise ; for it is of the highest interest to know what such a German as Weismann would have said of war deliberately provoked , and provoked by the methods of Bismarck .
At the time he considered the policy good , but talked as if he was quite aware that there was much to be said on the other side .
On his seventieth birthday he spoke of the great national elevation of the Franco-German War , and of how the " unexpected new birth of our fatherland , filling us all with joy , " perhaps contributed towards the cure of the essentially nervous trouble with his eyes .
Weismann and his family had never liked the Prussians or August Lriedrich Leopold WeismcLun .
xxxi Prussian militarism .
It was the German victory he rejoiced in , and above all the united Germany which sprang from it .
Weismann was among those who publicly renounced the marks of distinction which had been conferred on them in this country .
A few weeks befoie the war broke out , his daughter , Mrs. W. N. Parker , her husband , and little girl , went to stay with Weismann , near Lindau , on the Lake of Constance .
Ihey found him much aged , and were rather anxious about his heart , though he was able to take short walks and to enjoy his daughter 's playing , and even , in spite of his increasing blindness , to do some work on the colours of butterflies , the subject of his last letters to the present writer .
The war news excited and upset him very much , and they decided to remain with him until they could be replaced .
Julius appeared on Sunday , August 2 , and the next day they thought it advisable to cross to Switzerland , and were only just in time .
Professor and Mrs. Parker felt that , if they had been able to stay with him , M eismann would not have signed the memorial .
It is known that for a long time he refused to sign it , and only gave way to persistent persuasion .
But , excited and unwell , and with all the sudden anxiety about Julius and so many other members of the family , it is hardly to be wondered at that he was not in a state to judge calmly and fairly ; and we may be sure that he did not know the truth about England 's participation .
We can imagine , too , how terribly grieved a man of his affectionate disposition must have been at the knowledge that members of his family were ranged on opposite sides .
Weismann 's many friends and admirers in this country will feel the force of these considerations , and will realise the effect of such a sudden and awful shock upon a man of over eighty and in failing health .
The outbreak of war brought on an attack of heart trouble , but he recovered sufficiently to return to his Freiburg home , where he was tended by his eldest daughter .
He began to lose strength about the middle of October , and his son , who was engaged at the base hospital at Lindau , obtained leave to go to his father .
Weismann sank gradually , and died without pain on the evening of November 5 , 1914 .
His age was eighty years and nine months .
It would be inappropriate to describe or discuss at any length the splendid series of memoirs by which Zoology was enriched by this great man , and I therefore reproduce the brief account of his scientific labours , drawn up for ' Nature ' ( vol. 94 , 1914 , p. 342 ) .
" Weismann 's earliest researches were physiological and histological , the first publication , on hippuric acid ( 1858 ) , being followed by a series of six papers on the nervous and contractile tissues ( 1859-1862 ) .
Abandoning this subject , except for a single paper on muscle , published in 1865 , he threw himself with the utmost energy into his classical work upon the embryonic and post-embryonic development and metamorphosis of insects , producing five memoirs between 1862 and 1864 and a sixth in 1866 .
In the great monograph on the post-embryonic development of Muscidse ( 1864 ) , the xxxii Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased .
building up of the perfect form in the pupa is studied in detail , and it is shown that , in insects with a complete metamorphosis , the tissues undergo a breaking down or histolysis into an apparently simple and primitive mass , from which the imago is built up afresh by , as it were , a second embryonic development .
Thus the long series of slightly modified progressive steps by which , in the more ancestral groups , the earliest stage is transformed into the latest has been shortened in the more recent forms into a single intermediate stage , in which everything is broken down and built up again from the beginning , establishing the truth of Aristotle 's statement that ' the chrysalis has the potentiality of the egg .
' " Insect development was followed by a great series of memoirs ( 1874-1880 ) on the minute Crustacea\#151 ; Daphnids and Ostracods\#151 ; and these again by the epoch-making researches into the sexual cells of the Hydrozoa , published in four papers between 1880 and 1882 , and , in 1883 , in the great quarto monograph , ' Die Entstehung der Sexualzellen bei den Hydromedusen .
' With the appearance of this work Weismann 's eyesight became too weak for prolonged microscopic research , and he turned to other and more general problems of thought and inquiry .
" Weismann was attracted early in his career towards the problems of the history and causes of evolution .
' The Origin of Species ' appeared in the year following the publication of his first paper , and in 1868 he brought out ' Ueber die Berechtigung der Darwin'schen Theory , ' followed in 1873 by his paper on the influence of isolation , written in answer to Wagner .
The ' Studien sir Descendenz-Theorie ' ( 1875 ) included a variety of subjects treated from the evolutionary point of view\#151 ; the seasonal dimorphism of butterflies , the markings of caterpillars , phyletic parallelism , the transformation of the Mexican axolotl , and the mechanical conception of nature .
This important and stimulating work , translated into English , with many additional notes by Raphael Meldola , and with a preface by Charles Darwin , was published in 1882 .
The present writer well remembers the interest with which he looked forward to the parts as they successively appeared and the instant resolution to continue some of the lines of work .
" The central thought which branched forth so luxuriantly during the last 30 years of Weismann 's life sprang from his researches on the sexual cells of the Hydrozoa .
By these he was led to conclude that , however ordinary their appearance , the germ-cells contain something essential for the species , something which must be carefully preserved and passed on from one generation to another .
It was this conclusion , so Weismann told the present writer in 1887 , which led directly to the hypothesis of ' The Continuity of the Germ-plasm , ' with all its far-reaching consequences .
In Darwin 's pangenesis the germ-cells are derived from the body-cells , whereas in Weismann 's contrasted hypothesis the body is an outgrowth from the germ .
From this conception Weismann was led to contrast the mortal soma with the potentially immortal germ and to question the 'hereditary transmission of acquired characters .
Excluded from the Darwinian interpretation of germinal variation as a August Friedrich Leopold I xxxiii consequence of gem mules dispa tched to the germ by environmentally modified body-cells , Weismann looked for the origin of variation in the kaleidoscopic combination of innumerable ancestral factors brought about by sexual reproduction .
He thus sought to explain the meaning'of sexual reproduction itself as well as the events which lead up to the fusion of the male and female germ-cells .
" The subjects thus briefly enumerated , treated in eight memoirs published between 1881 and 1888 , were translated , and appeared in a collected form in this country as 'Essays upon Heredity and Kindred Biological Problems ' ( 1889 ) .
The translation of four additional memoirs ( 1886-1891 ) was published as a second volume in 1892 , the year in which he produced The Germplasm , ' translated by Prof. W. Newton Parker and published in this country in 1893 .
An elaborate and remarkable hypothesis , ' Germinal Selection ' ( 1896 ) , was followed by the comprehensive treatise on the evolution theory , which brought his long and fruitful life-work to a close .
The two volumes passed through three editions between 1902 and 1913 , the English translation by Prof , and Mrs. J. Arthur Thomson appearing in 1904 , the year of the Festschrift which celebrated Weismann 's seventieth birthday .
" It is truly said in the Academical Vade-mecum ( 1904 ) of his University that Weismann considered his chief duty as a teacher wras to spread the doctrines of Darwin , and that the aim of all his investigations was to confirm and further develop them .
In these years of revelation it is well to be reminded of the words of warning and advice to younger men uttered by Weismann on his seventieth birthday:\#151 ; " You will not be among those thoughtless people who believe that the main object of science is to make useful discoveries ... .
steam engines , telegraphs , telephones , antiseptic treatment of wounds , knowledge ol fever parasites in the blood , and the like .
However important these and many other advances are for humanity , they would never have taken place at all if research had looked to them as its sole object .
They are but by-products of the investigator 's workshop , where the real aim must always be pure knowledge for its own sake , unbiased by secondary efforts .
Antiseptic treatment could scarcely have been discovered without a previous knowledge of the lowest and smallest of known organisms , the bacteria , and the life-histories of many harmless forms .
Or how could we ever have come to know of the parasites of malaria living in the blood if we had not previously studied similar lowly forms of life inhabiting water and other media ?
And these studies were not pursued because it was foreseen that they would one day become splendidly important for us , any more than Weber and Gauss studied electromagnetism in order to invent the telegraph ... .
It is fitting to conclude this brief story of Weismann 's life with the true and noble thought contained in his address at the Darwin Centenary XXXIV Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
celebration in Freiburg .
" It is a perversion of the theory of evolution to maintain , as many have done , that what is merely animal and brutal must gain the victory .
The contrary seems to me to be true , for in man it is the spirit that rules and not the body .
" Note.\#151 ; The material from which this brief account of Weismann 's life has been written has been almost entirely drawn from the four publications quoted below .
I have tried to express in my own words , and only rarely by a translation\#151 ; and then with extreme freedom\#151 ; what I believe were Weismann 's thoughts about himself and his career .
I could not have attempted the work but for the kind help of my friends Prof , and Mrs. W. N. Parker and Mr. E. A. Elliott .
The Obituary Notice in the 'Proceedings of the Linnean Society , ' Session 127 , 1914-15 , pp. 33-37 , by Professor and Mrs. W. N. Parker .
The Obituary Notice in 'Nature , ' vol. 94 , pp. 342-343 , November 26 , 1914 , by E. B. Poulton .
' Akademisches Vademecum fur die Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat , Freiburg i. Br .
, ' Herausgegeben von Hans Speyer .
Freiburg i. Br .
, 1904 .
' Bericht fiber die Feier des 70 Geburtstages von August Weismann , am 17 Januar 1904 , in Freiburg i. Breisgau .
' Jena , 1904 .
E. B. P. Sir WILLIAM TURNER , K.C.B. ( 1832-1916 ) .
The death of Principal Turner has removed from the roll of the Society the name of one who occupied for more than half-a-century a very prominent place among anatomical teachers and medical legislators .
Although so long associated with Edinburgh University , he was English by birth , having been born in Lancaster in 1832 .
His father was in business in that town , and died when his son was five years old .
His mother ( who was a Scotswoman , maiden name Aldren ) sent the boy to a private school in Lancaster kept by Mr. Howard , and , when he was 16 , apprenticed him to a local surgeon , Christopher Johnson .
From him he learned a little chemistry , a subject in which he retained his interest all through his life .
Two years later he began his more serious medical training at St. Bartholomew 's , where he obtained a scholarship .
He attracted the notice of Sir James Paget , then assistant surgeon , by his intelligence and his interest in the study of pathology .
Through him Turner made his first public appearance , as in 1853 Paget communicated for him to the Royal Society a paper on " The Examination of Cerebrospinal Fluid , " which showed a very considerable knowledge of chemistry .
This was published in ' Proceedings , ' vol. 7 , p. 89 .
In the same year he took honours Siv WillictTYi Twyiqv .
xxxv in chemistry at the London University , and obtained his M.R.C.S. qualification .
While working at St. Bartholomew 's , the place and nature of his future life-work was determined by an unexpected occurrence .
In 1854 Prof. John Good sir , of Edinburgh , then in infirm health , when passing through London , returning from a sojourn at Wildbad , called on Paget and consulted him as to the choice of a demonstrator to assist him in the anatomical classes in his University .
Paget at once suggested Turner , and , after a brief characteristic interview , Goodsir appointed him as his assistant on the spot .
Turner entered upon his new duties in the winter session of 1854 .
At first he found his surroundings somewhat uncongenial , but his good temper , sagacity , and straightforward earnestness soon disarmed all strained relationships with those who had resented the intrusion of a stranger , and in a very short time the young teacher earned the good will of all with whom he was associated .
He thoroughly adapted himself to his environment , and before long was strong enough to have his own way in his work .
It was his duty to give systematic anatomical demonstrations , to supervise the practical work in the dissecting room , and to continue the demonstrative teaching of histology , which Goodsir had started some years before , with the aid of Turner 's predecessor , Drummond .
For some years the routine teaching occupied his whole attention , but , by the time that he was established in his work , he began to publish the records of his anatomical researches .
Some of the earliest are descriptions of anomalous conditions found in the dissecting room , but some were records of work of more practical value .
Two of these earlier papers were especially important : " On Anastomotic Vessels Connecting the Parietal and Visceral Branches of the Abdominal Aorta , " and " On a Supplementary Vascular Supply to the Nutrient Arteries of the Lungs .
" He also began his studies on cranio-cerebral topography and on the cerebral convolutions , which he expanded later into the larger papers on the subject , which are known to all anatomists .
During his service as demonstrator he had as his students , and afterwards as junior colleagues , Cleland , Traquair , Chiene , Morrison Watson , and others , who afterwards filled important teaching posts in Edinburgh and elsewhere .
Goodsir died in 1867 , and by that time Turner had been recognised as the most distinguished anatomical teacher in Scotland , so his election to the Chair was a foregone conclusion .
Those were the bad old days , when candidates had to furnish the electors with volumes of testimonials .
Few such lists ever equalled in weight and warmth those that Turner sent in .
The list included letters from all the leading authorities whose testimony was of moment .
Two rival candidates also sent in applications , but Turner was unanimously elected .
He was Professor of Anatomy for 36 years .
In this capacity he took the elementary courses for those beginning the subject , and in this work he was facile princeps .
His slow , deliberate utterance , well chosen , clear and graphic mode of description , together with the living / YOL .
LXXX1X.\#151 ; B. xxxvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
interest which he threw into his work , all conspired to make him a popular and successful teacher .
In his first year as Professor , the ' Journal of Anatomy ' was started by him in collaboration with Sir G- .
M. Humphry , of Cambridge .
In the first volume the names of Newton , Perceval Wright , and J. W. Clark appear as co-editors , but these merely ornamental names were dropped in the second volume .
The two editors at first divided the work between them , with the aid of Prof. McKendriek on the physiological side , but gradually Humphry relinquished his share of the editorial work , and by 1875 the whole of the responsibility was thrown on Turner , although Humphry 's name appeared on the title page until his death in 1896 .
In 1897 , Turner associated with himself three new colleagues , to whom he committed the active editorial duties , but to the end he retained his post as senior editor , and every sheet of the Journal passed through his hand until the end of 1915 .
During his tenure of the professorship his activity in anatomical research was extraordinary .
He produced over 200 memoirs on anatomical subjects , all of which were records of strenuous original work in very diverse branches of the subject .
He had been led early in his studies to observe the varieties of placentation in different groups of mammals and , between 1871 and 1889 , published a large number of valuable papers embodying his observations .
On this subject he gave lectures at the Royal College of Surgeons in 1875-6 , which were published as a volume .
In 1874 he began his studies on the anatomy of Cetacea and produced a number of interesting and important memoirs which are painstaking and valuable additions to the literature of a difficult subject .
As , through the agency of his pupils , scattered throughout the world , he was able to procure crania of many races of men , he published on these a number of monographs , the earliest of which appeared in 1866 , and the last , on Scottish crania , as late as 1915 .
One of the most interesting of his anthropological memoirs is one on the classification of the races of mankind by the varying forms of the pelvic brim .
The observations on which this was based are published in his account of the human remains obtained during the " Challenger " Expedition , upon which he wrote a monograph ( Yol .
XYI , Part 47 ) .
In the same series he also wrote the account of the Cetacean bones ( Vol. I , Part 4 ) .
Turner early became known among his colleagues as a cautious , firm , and capable man of business , and in 1873 he was elected by the Universities of Edinburgh and Aberdeen as their representative on the General Medical Council .
In this position he gained the well-merited reputation of being a wise and prudent councillor who took a statesman-like view of the subjects with which the Council was concerned .
When the Presidency of the Council became vacant by the death of Sir Richard Quain , he was elected to fill the office , and as Chairman , he introduced many measures which increased the usefulness and efficiency of the Council .
During the years 1878-80 , he was Dean of Faculty in his University , and in 1881 he served on the Medical Acts Commission .
Sir William .
XXXV11 In 1903 he was elected Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University in which he had worked so faithfully and well for nearly half a century , and in his new position he continued to promote , not only the success of the Medical School , but also the wider interests of the University .
The Anatomical Museum and the practical classes in Anatomy and Physiolooy had greatly outgrown the buildings in the Old University , and it is to his exertions and influence that the University owes the large new buildings which they now occupy , as well as the spacious " McEwan Hall .
" These buildings cost \#163 ; 228,000 .
Turner also took an active part in framing the regulations under which Mr. Carnegie 's generous gift to the Scottish Universities is at present administered .
In his earlier years he was an enthusiastic Volunteer and retired from the service in 1890 with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel and the V.D. On the outbreak of the present war he gave all the aid in his power to the promotion of recruiting among the University men in Edinburgh .
He was recipient of many honours .
Knighted in 1880 and created K.C.B. in 1901 , he also received the Prussian Order Pour le Merit .
Elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1877 , he served on the Council in 1890-1 , was President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , and of the British Association ( at the Bradford Meeting , 1900 ) ; Honorary Member of the Royal Irish Academy and of the Anthropological Societies in Paris , Petrograd , Rome , and Berlin .
He took much interest in the founding of the Anatomical Society in 1887 , and was its President in 1891-2 .
He had also received a large number of Honorary degrees , LL. D. .
of Aberdeen , St. Andrews , Glasgow , Montreal , and Pennsylvania ; D.C.L. dT Oxford , Durham , and Toronto ; and D.Sc .
of Dublin and Cambridge .
In 1863 he married Agnes , eldest daughter of Abraham Logan , of Burnhouse , Berwickshire , who pre-deceased him , and he leaves three sons and two daughters .
His eldest son is Dr. William Aldren Turner , Physician and Lecturer on Neurology at King 's College Hospital ; his second son is Dr. Arthur Logan Turner , Consulting Surgeon and Lecturer on Diseases of the Ear and Throat at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh and in the University .
He had enjoyed good health throughout his long life , and in spite of his venerable appearance , he was active and able to attend to his duties almost to the last .
For some years he found it advisable to winter abroad , but since the outbreak of the war this was impossible .
On February 3 he attended a meeting of the Senatus , but feeling unwell he had to leave before the meeting was concluded .
The weakness gradually increased and he died quietly in his sleep on February 15 .
He has left behind him a threefold record of success : as a teacher , as an investigator , and as an organiser and man of affairs .
As a teacher he held a unique record as an educator of anatomical teachers .
Nineteen of his students became teachers of anatomy or of kindred subjects in different parts of the Empire .
Their great success was due to the encouragement .
VOL. lxxxix.\#151 ; b. g xxxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
which he gave to those of his students in whom he perceived the aptitude for research .
He knew all the good men in his class and stimulated them to work .
He also took an active interest in securing teaching posts for them .
As an investigator he was painstaking and germinal ; in most of the work done by his pupils there is discernible the development of ideas which had their roots in his teaching .
As a medical statesman his record is honourable , and as a man his death will be felt as a real personal loss by the thousands , of his pupils scattered in all parts of the world .
A. M. EDWARD ALFRED MINCHIN , 1866-1915 .
By the death of E. A. Minchin at the age of 49 years on September 30 , we have lost one of the most brilliant and most industrious of the zoological investigators of our generation .
Though he seemed to choose for his special researches some of the most difficult and intricate problems that his science afforded , he took a delight in training his hand and eye to overcome the greatest of technical difficulties and in opening up new lines of research for himself and his successors .
His patience and care in minute details , his firm grasp of the general principles of the subject he had in hand , and his determination to be satisfied only with the very best work he could produce , are evident in all his writings .
His devotion to science and untiring energy are shown in the number of books and scientific papers that constitute his life 's work .
He was born at Weston-super-Mare in 1866 .
In his early years he suffered from a constitutional weakness and a physical disability which prevented him from following the ordinary pursuits of a boy 's life .
At 14 years of age he joined his parents in India and was sent to the Bishop Cotton School at Bangalore , and it was during the years that he spent in India that he was able to indulge freely in his favourite pursuits in Natural History and to develop his powers of observation .
On returning to this country he gained an Exhibition at Keble College , Oxford , and began to study for Honours in Natural Science .
During his undergraduate career the Zoological Department of the University underwent several rapid and unsettling changes as regards its teaching staff , owing to the serious illness of Prof. Moseley , but notwithstanding the disadvantages which he suffered in this respect he took his degree in 1890 with first-class honours in Zoology .
Edward Alfred xxxix As a student he had already distinguished himself by his skill in technical work , by his dogged perseverance and by his marked capacity for original observation .
When working over the types given to the senior students for examination he was not contented simply with the confirmation of the facts of anatomy as stated in the text-books , but was willing to devote his spare time to inquiries on points of structure about which he could get no information either from the literature or from his teachers .
In this way he discovered the skin pouches\#151 ; regarded as stink glands\#151 ; under the fifth tergum of the cockroach , and the brood pouches in the manubrium of Aurelia .
He published two short scientific papers on these subjects before he took his degree .
Oxford soon recognised his merit and he was awarded the University scholarship at Naples , the Kadcliffe Travelling Fellowship and finally a fellowship at Merton College .
In order to pursue his original investigations he visited the marine biological stations at Naples , Banyul , and Koscoff , and also spent some time at work in the laboratories of Prof. Butschli at Heidelberg and of Prof. K. Hertwig at Munich .
But in 1899 his wanderings abroad were , for a time , brought to an end by his appointment to the Jodrell Chair of Zoology in University College , London .
During this period of his career the principal subject of Minchin 's study was the structure of the calcareous sponges and , in particular , the histology and development of the spicules .
The memoir entitled " Materials for a Monograph of the Asconkke , " published in the 'Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science ' in January , 1898 , was a model of a carefully-written treatise , a clear exposition of new facts , and a philosophical discussion of conflicting views .
The important results of Minchin 's work on the formation of the triradiate and quadriradiate spicules of the Clathrinidae led to further researches on spicule formation in Sponges and other groups of animals , both by himself and by his pupil , Dr. Woodland .
But Minchin 's interest in the Porifera extended far beyond the question of the structure and development of the spicules .
He was anxious , if possible , by the study of their general morphology , to solve the difficult problem of the relation of Sponges to other groups of animals .
In 1896 he communicated to the Boyal Society an important little paper on the larva and post-larval development of Leucosolenia variabilis , in which he described the significant fact of the differentiation of the dermal layer of the larva into the outer epithelium and the inner connective tissue of the adult .
The result of these investigations led him to two very definite conclusions .
Firstly , that the larval development shows that the Sponges cannot be considered Ccelenterates ; and , secondly , that the cells forming the connective tissue layer cannot be considered comparable with the mesoblast of the Triploblastica .
These views he expressed with remarkable force and lucidity in his article on Porifera in Sir Kay Lankester 's ' Treatise on Zoology , ' and in his address to the International Congress of Zoology at Cambridge in 1898 .
It was not , perhaps , an original idea of Minchin 's that the Porifera constitute a phylum xl Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
of the animal kingdom independently derived from the Choanoflagellata , but it was to his researches , more than to any others , that we are indebted for the final separation of the group from the Coelenterata on the one hand , and their dissociation from the phyla with three germ layers on the other .
In the course of his post-graduate studies abroad Minchin came under the influence of Butschli , who was at the time busily engaged in his famous researches on the physical structure of protoplasm .
This experience gave him a special interest in the Protozoa , and led to the important series of researches which were published during the second period of his career .
In 1894 he gave to English readers an authorised translation of Biitschli 's great work on Microscopic Foams and on Protoplasm ( A. and C. Black ) , and nine years later he wrote the article on Sporozoa for Sir Eay Lankester 's ' Treatise on Zoology/ These publications established his reputation as a protozoologist with a wide knowledge of the literature of the subject and a marked capacity for dealing with its problems with philosophical insight ; but it was not until 1907 that he published , in conjunction with Dr. H. B. Fantham , his first paper of original research in Protozoology , a description of a new genus of Sporozoon\#151 ; Iihinosporidium\#151 ; from the septum nasi of man .
*In 1905 Minchin was appointed a member of the Sleeping Sickness Commission of the Eoyal Society , and was sent out to Uganda to investigate the relation of the tsetse fly ( Glossinct to the trypanosome of sleeping sickness { Trypanosoma gambiense ) .
He had married Florence Maud Fontain in 1903 , and his wife accompanied him on this expedition .
He began his work by a study of the anatomy of the fly , and wrote an account of his observations for a communication that was published in the ' Proceedings of the Eoyal Society ' ( vol. 76 ) .
In this paper he demonstrated the extraordinary skill he possessed in the study of the anatomy of small insects , a skill that was afterwards shown again in his account of the anatomy of the rat flea { Ceratopliyllus fasciaius ) , published by the Quekett Microscopical Society in 1915 .
Soon after his return from Uganda the opportunity was afforded him of devoting the greater part of his time to research by his appointment as Professor of Protozoology in the Lister Institute .
Freed from the cares of teaching elementary students and of administration , he threw himself whole-heartedly into the investigation of the Protozoa of disease , and soon raised himself to the rank of the first of the protozoologists of his time .
Continuing the researches he began in Uganda he discovered all the stages of the encystment of Trypanosoma grayiin the proctodseum of the fly , and from this was led to the conclusion that the infection of a vertebrate host may in some cases occur not by the inoculative method , but by contamination , a conclusion subsequently confirmed by other members of the Commission by other methods .
Having once taken up the fascinating , but complex and * * I am greatly indebted to Dr. H. M. Woodcock of the Lister Institute for material assistance in writing the account of this part of Minchin 's career .
Edward Alfred xli difficult , study of the Trypanosomes , he continued the study of this group for the resfc of his career .
As the outcome of study in the vacations on the Norfolk Broads he published ( ' Proc. Zool. Soc./ 1909 ) an interesting general account of the trypanosomes and trypanoplasms of fresh-water fishes , illustrated by remarkably beautiful figures .
In the course of this study he showed how essential it is for minute cytological details to use a wet method of fixation and to stain by some variety of iron-hsematoxylin .
So impressed was Minchin by the necessity for the best ' possible technique in studying trypanosomes that before undertaking his great research on he spent some time m comparing the results obtained by many different fixatives and stains .
His observations are recorded in a most instructive paper on the cytology of this parasite in relation to technique ( ' Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Sci./ 1909 ) .
He then turned his attention to the investigation of the life cycle of Trypanosoma lewisi in the rat flea , and after arduous study , extending over five years , he published , with Dr. J. D. Thomson as joint collaborator , a complete memoir on this subject ( 'Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci./ 1915 ) .
The great importance of this elaborate piece of work must be recognised by all protozoologists .
It is the only complete account of the life-history of any trypanosome in its invertebrate host , and the detailed description of the various stages and their relation to the epithelial cells of the various parts of the alimentary canal of the host that they infest make it a standard \#166 ; work on which the researches of later investigators must be based .
It is , perhaps , in this memoir that we see Minchin at his best .
On every page we recognise his infinite capacity for taking pains , amounting almost to genius , his skill in technique , his wide knowledge and sound judgment .
But , although Minchin 's interest was focussed mainly upon the Trypanosomes from the time he became Professor of Protozoology , he wrote several shorter papers on the Heemogregarines and parasitic AmoebEe .
To the general zoologist , however , his name will be associated principally with his book entitled \#163 ; An Introduction to the Study of the Protozoa/ one of the best and most valuable treatises on a single group of animals that has ever been published .
In this work he brought together in a concise form a vast amount of information concerning all the groups of Protozoa , but giving in greater detail the results of recent investigations on those that are parasitic .
It is a book characteristic of his clear mind , his profound knowledge and powers of acute criticism .
One of the last acts of his busy life was the preparation of his address as President of Section D at the meeting of the British Association in Manchester last September .
It was written at a time when he was suffering from the painful and fatal illness to which he succumbed three weeks later .
Unable to attend the meeting himself- , he invited his friend , Mr. Heron-Alien , to read the address for him , and with his usual care for efficiency marked those parts that he wished to be emphasized and those parts that could be omitted if time were pressing .
Those who were present at the meeting will long xlii Obituary Notices .
remember not only the intrinsic interest and value of the address , but also the impressive and sympathetic manner in which it was delivered by the good friend in whose house he passed some of the last days of his life .
In this address Minchin gave us his philosophical standpoint as regards the origin of living organisms on the earth .
He believed that the chromatin represents the primary living substance , that in the organisms known as the Chlamydozoa we have the nearest approach to the earliest organisms , that the formation of an envelope or capsule round the primary chromatin particles giving rise to the periplasm or cytoplasm of the cell , the increase in the number and complexity of the chromatin granules , and the formation of a definite nucleus were subsequent processes in the evolutionary cycle .
These and many other aspects of Cytology and Protozoology he treated with a masterly hand , and the address is one which for style and evidence of a cultured mind has rarely been excelled in the history of Section D. S. J. H. Captain J. W. JENKINSON , .
M.A. , D.Sc* John Wilfked Jenkinson was born in 1871 , and educated at Bradfield College .
In 1890 he came up to Oxford , having obtained a scholarship in classics at Exeter College .
His taste for natural history developed early .
Already , as a boy at school , he took a keen interest in botany , and several of his finds are mentioned in Druce 's 'Flora of Berkshire .
' After taking his degree at Oxford in the honour school of Liter\#174 ; Humaniores , he turned his attention to the study of zoology , and went to work at University College , London , under Prof. Weldon .
On his return to Oxford he joined the teaching staff of the Department of Comparative Anatomy in the University Museum , obtained his doctor 's degree in Science in 1905 , and next year was appointed University Lecturer in Comparative and Experimental Embryology .
The excellence of his work in research and in teaching was recognised , and in 1909 his old college , Exeter , elected him to a Besearch Fellowship .
In 1905 he married Constance Stephenson , who survives him .
An ardent patriot , Jenkinson became a member of the Oxford Volunteer Training Corps as soon as the war broke out .
Though over age he applied for a commission , and joined the 12th Worcestershire Regiment in January , 1915 .
He was promoted to a captaincy in April , and left for active service in the Dardanelles on May 10 , one of a draft of six officers from his regiment , attached to the 2nd Royal Fusiliers .
Hardly had he reached the * This and other obituary notices of distinguished men of science , not Fellows of the Society , who have fallen in the War , appear in pursuance of a resolution of Council .
J. W. Jenkinson .
xliii eastern field of war when he fell in one of the fierce attacks on the coast of Gallipoli .
Thus died in the service of his country a man of indomitable courage , great physical and mental energy , and remarkable powers of endurance .
His loss was felt as a painful blow by his many friends and colleagues in Oxford , and as a severe loss to zoological science .
Jenkinson 's scientific work was almost entirely devoted to Embryology .
His earliest original contribution was " A Reinvestigation of the Early Stages in the Development of the Mouse " ( 'Quart .
Jour .
Micro .
Sci./ vol. 43 , 1900 ) , an able criticism of the views of Robinson and Assheton concerning the origin of the germ-layers and trophoblast .
It was founded on work partly carried out in the laboratory of the famous Dutch embryologist , Prof. Hubrecht , in Utrecht , to which Jenkinson had paid several visits .
Soon afterwards he wrote " Observations on the Histology and Physiology of the Placenta of the Mouse " ( * Tijdschr .
Nederl .
Vereenig./ vol. 7 , 1902 ) , and some years later on the placenta in Ungulates Proc. Zool. Soc./ 1906 ) .
In a paper " On the Development of the Ear-bones in the Mouse " ( ' Jour .
Anat .
and Physiol./ vol. 45 , 1911 ) he successfully attacked the difficult problem of the first appearance of these structures , and showed that , in the very earliest stages , the stapes is connected with the hyoid arch , and the incus and malleus with the mandibular arch .
Quite lately ho published ( Oxford , 1913 ) a little text-book on ' Vertebrate Embryology , ' giving an excellent account of the germ-cells , the germ-layers , and the placenta .
But Jenkinson soon became more interested in experimental embryology\#151 ; a comparatively new science little studied in England , and offering an attractive and boundless scope for research .
After publishing a detailed description of the maturation and fertilisation processes in the Axolotl ( ' Quart .
Jour .
Micro .
Sci./ vol. 48 , 1904 ) , he wrote a number of valuable papers on the relation of the symmetry of the egg to the symmetry of the embryo in the frog , on the effect of various salts and other substances on development , and kindred subjects ( ' Quart .
J our .
Micro .
Sci./ ' Biometrika , ' Brit. Ass .
Reports/ ' Archiv f. Entwickelungs-mechanik ' ) .
His best known and perhaps most important work is the 'Experimental Embryology ' ( Oxford , 1909 ) .
Although several books on the subject had appeared abroad , this was the first comprehensive text-book published in England on a new and fascinating branch of zoology .
It contains a summary and discussion of practically all the results that had been obtained up to the time of its publication .
Clear exposition and sound judgment distinguish this work , in which the author finally pronounces against the neo-vitalistic doctrines of Driesch .
The appearance of Jenkinson s book stimulated interest in experimental embryology in this country , and the premature death of the author leaves a gap in the ranks of zoological researchers which it will be difficult to fill .
E. S. G. VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; B. h xliv THOMAS LAUDEE BEUNTON , 1844-1916 .
On September 16 , 1916 , in London , this distinguished physician passed away after a long illness , borne with rare fortitude .
Although retired from private practice , Brunton was far indeed from retirement in respect of those public causes to which , with the pious tenacity of his race , he devoted much of his life , and a fervour almost religious in its depth and constancy .
A short time before his death the present writer had visited Lauder Brunton , and witnessed both the distress under which he laboured and the ingenious methods he had devised for keeping the evil at bay ; not in the desire of a mere prolongation of life , though this indeed were no unworthy intention , but in order to cherish the fire of its last embers for those humane ends which he had so ardently at heart .
It was therefore with the more admiration that , about three weeks before his death , the writer received from his friend , now silent , a long and important letter covering certain documents and proposals on the subject of physical education , a movement to which , in his later years , Brunton had given no little energy and guidance , one which , especially for the sake of children and young people , he was pressing forward almost with his latest breath .
Fortunately , he has worked with eomrades and assistants who will not fail to keep his lamp alight , nor let any of his last counsels be forgotten .
Thomas Lauder Brunton was born of pure Scotch lineage at Hiltons Hill , Eoxburgh , in 1844 , and received his medical training at the University of Edinburgh , where he had a distinguished academic career .
When we look back upon Lauder Brunton 's work as a whole we shall recognise its great merits .
As with all other observers , this work was not always up to the high level of his best ; but his best , whether we regard it as pioneer work or in the more absolute sense of permanent values , was very good .
We may divide it into three periods : the pioneer work , the work of his early prime , and the work of later years .
It is scarcely correct to say that pharmacology as an experimental science did not begin till the middle of the nineteenth century , for multitudes of pharmacological experiments , remarkably systematic and precise for their age , were made upon the venoms of animals and the poisons of plants in the times of Attalus III of Pergamon ( died b.c. 133 ) , and of Mithridates Eupator ( b.c. 63-31 ) , and by none more assiduously than by those kings themselves .
However , dismissing these ancient records , but remembering that modern experimental pharmacology could hardly take form before the separation of the active principles of drugs , as of morphin by Sertiirner in 1816 , and coming down to our own day , we find that the first modern pharmacological laboratory , i.e. , the first systematic foundation of pharmacology as an aspect of experimental physiology ( including pathology ) , and on similar methods , Photo by Elliott \amp ; Fry , Ltd. Thomas Lauder x\v was established by Buchheim at Dorpat about a.d. 1860 * Then quickly followed Buchheim 's second foundation at Giessen in 1869 ; and in 1872 those of Binz in Bonn , of Liebreich in Berlin , of Schmiedeberg in Strassburg .
Now what these men did abroad , Brunton and Leech were doing in England .
In 1866 the present writer , with his colleague Mr. Teale , was experimenting on animals with morphin , and on the curious tolerance of the drug by rabbits ; and in 1868-70 he was studying with Milner Fothergill the effects of digitalis\#151 ; chiefly on the frog 's heart .
But without means of maintaining the separated heart in action , and without kymograph and other physiological apparatus , beginners had to content themselves with crude inspection The writer had to relinquish much of the digitalis work to Fothergill , who embodied the results in his Hastings Prize Essay for 1870 ( published 1871 ) .
Brunton was appointed Lecturer on Materia Medica at St. Bartholomew 's on his 26th birthday , in the year 1871 .
Leech was appointed ( joint ) Lecturer on the same subject in Manchester in 1874 , Professor in 1881 .
But Brunton had done good work before he was called to St. Bartholomew 's ; indeed , in 1871 , he had begun to write his 'Experimental Investigation of Medicine .
' He was one of the first of the scientific practising physicians who used no empirical remedy without seeking to discover its mode of action , and , by pharmacological and other research , endeavouring to add to our resources .
Bence Jones , Golding Bird , Pavy , were of the generation before him , it is true ; but few physicians whose interests before all else were , and still remained , clinical , followed scientific investigation so systematically and in so disinterested a spirit .
In 1868 , after passing through the preliminary stages of his medical education with much distinction , lie had presented a thesis for the Degree of M.D. , also on the action of digitalis , especially in respect of its effect upon the urine ; an essay which recorded a very laborious series of observations upon himself , extending over six months .
This thesis was the first-fruits of his many years ' labour upon this perplexing drug ; yet of all his researches this was , perhaps , the least rewarded .
Like many other pharmacologists , Brunton did not sufficiently distinguish between the effects of larger and smaller doses .
Perhaps even yet it is not fully realised that the effects of therapeutical doses of drugs cannot always be reckoned as fractions of the effects of poisonous doses , but may be different in kind .
On finding himself , at the conclusion of his hospital course in Edinburgh , the holder of a travelling scholarship , and not without some private means , Brunton decided to devote three years to study in foreign laboratories .
First , in 1867 , he went to Vienna , and there worked in Briicke and liosenthal 's laboratories ; thence to Berlin , still working on digitalis , and deciding that it caused contraction of the peripheral vessels with rise of blood-pressure , f a conclusion now said to be true only of poisonous doses .
After a tour in the East we find him , in 1869 , in Amsterdam , with Kiihne ; now engaged upon * In recent times , perhaps Majendie was the first to work systematically and experimentally with animals on pharmacological problems.\#151 ; C. A. t Brunton and Meyer , ' Journ. of Anat .
and Physiol. , ' vol. 7 , p. 136 ( 1873 ) .
xlvi Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased .
the chemistry of the blood , and of digestion.* Thence he went to Leipsic , and was one of the first students in Carl Ludwig 's new institute . !
Here it was that he began his admirable researches on the nitrites , J and his lifelong friendship with Kronecker .
In 1871 Brunton settled in London and , after a short term at the Middlesex Hospital , was appointed Lecturer on Materia Medica , and Casualty Physician , at St. Bartholomew 's .
There in a small scullery he began his experimental work in England , some excellent part of it with Fairer on snake venoms .
In this den , and afterwards in the pharmacological laboratory of the new buildings occupied in 1881 , he trained pupils and assistants , some of whom afterwards attained professorial rank .
As his private practice increased , Brunton was less and less able to work out his problems personally ; having laid down the lines of a research he was obliged to leave the elaboration to others .
Hence perhaps arose some lack of grip , and a reliance rather upon his highly cultivated intuition than upon patient verification ; a bent sometimes noticeable also in his clinical work .
When he had formed a vivid idea of a certain process it was sometimes difficult by argument , or even by demonstration , to alter his point of view .
But , on the other hand , it was by the aid of this imaginative quality that he did what he did ; it was by its light that he saw the new pharmacology , made it for G-reat Britain , and presented the great gift to his own and to later generations .
Moreover it is fair to add that at times , when some absorbing research was on foot , Brunton would leave his large practice , even for weeks , to work with his assistants .
In 1874 , at the early age of 30 , Brunton was elected Fellow of this Society ( Councillor , 1882-4 and 1905-6 ; Vice-President , 1905-6 ) ; and in his earlier days devoted much time and pains to its interests .
The Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians was conferred upon him in 1876 : and from other medical and scientific bodies and universities he received many distinctions .
While indeed he was still a comparatively unknown man he was , in obedience to the last wishes of Dr. Anstie , appointed Editor of ' The Practitioner .
' In 1885 appeared the first of many editions of the ' Textbook of Pharmacology and Therapeutics ' : his magnum opus , the first complete treatise on physiological pharmacology ; it was the summation of 15 years ' work and of notes more than once rewritten and of facts re-verified .
In lucidity , grasp , and accuracy it stood far before Ringer 's book , great as is our debt to Ringer .
It contained also a full bibliography , at that time invaluable , for no one so well as Brunton knew what was doing and had been done in his branch of science , and none could so precisely balance the relative values of the results of the several investigators .
And meanwhile he was himself * See Burdon Sanderson 's ' Handbook for the Physiol. Laby .
, ' which contains many useful descriptions by Brunton of experimental method .
t For these dates and places and other records the writer is much indebted to the Obituary Notice in the ' Brit. Med. Jour .
, ' September 23 , 1916 ; as also for kind assistance to Mrs. Henry , Prof. Bayliss and Prof. Cushny .
J ' Journ. Anat .
and Physiol. , ' 1871 , vol. 5 , p. 92 .
jThomas Lauder Brunton .
xlvii producing excellent papers : on strychnin , eaffein , aconite , the nitrites , and so on .
In 1867 Brunton made one of the most beneficent discoveries ever achieved in the cure of disease , namely , the relief of angina pectoris by the nitrites ( nitrite of amyl : a discovery deserving to rank with that of Peruvian bark in the cure of ague ) .
To have discovered the means of controlling one of the cruellest ills to which man is subject is , perhaps , amid many memorials , that which the author would have prized above all the rewards of his labours .
It is true that his conclusion , that angina is primarily a disease of high blood-pressure , was incorrect , and the sphygmographic tracings on which he based this conclusion showed only that the sphygmograph is not an instrument capable of interpreting pressures , nor even delicate enough to get closely into touch with the finer motions of the pulse .
His famous discovery has , therefore , been called a lucky shot , but such hits are made only by persons who have profoundly studied the conditions .
In 1897 Brunton published his ' Lectures on the Action of Medicines/ a work as practical in teaching as delightful to read .
As an earnest and kindly physician , in this work , as in his hospital and private practice , he was never drily academic , but kept ever before him the means , empirical as they might be , of bringing medical aid to his patients .
If the author were thus disposed to put too strong a faith in drugs as remedies , we should be the last to blame him for so generous an enthusiasm .
This work was followed by the 'Disorders of Assimilation ' ( 1901 ) and the * Therapeutics of the Circulation .
' In 1885 he had delivered the Lettsomian Lectures on ' Disorders of the Digestion , ' published in 1886 .
As in pharmacology , so in nutrition , secretion , and excretion , Brunton was a pioneer .
He set on foot much of the recent work on ferments and enzymes , on processes of digestion and assimilation , and even on the organotherapy and immunity investigations which are now in the forefront of research .
Concerning this part of his work , reference may be made to his Address to the International Congress of Medicine at Moscow in 1897 .
But to enumerate all Brunton s contributions to the science and art of Medicine would be a long task .
Versed in many subjects of clinical and therapeutical interest , and a prodigious worker , his books , reports , and essays were not only numerous , but were republished and re-embodied in many shapes .
They were principally concerned with gastric and cardiac problems , for the most part of much practical value ; and , in later life , with public health , such , for example , as the effects of exercise and stress on the heart , the need of physical education , of public hygiene , and so forth .
He served also on the Commission of 1886 , which reported on Pasteur 's treatment of hydrophobia .
In the episode in his career known as the Hyderabad Commission ( 1889 ) Brunton was less successful .
The whole affair was too brief , too hurried .
It is true that in chloroform poisoning the respiration is affected , but this is a subsidiary hazard , and one readily countered by artificial respiration .
The effect upon the heart is the chief peril , as was finally proved in the Cambridge Physiological Laboratory , in the presence of Lieut.-Colonel Lawrie xlviii Thomas Lauder Brunton .
and his assistants by the cross-circulation experiment devised by Dr. Gaskell and performed by Dr. Shore ; a demonstration in which the present writer took a subordinate part .
Nevertheless , if the results in some respects were doubtful , and in others needed re-interpretation , the whole problem was raised to the plane of its eminent importance .
It appears that , for some years past , from his intimate knowledge of the German people , Brunton had foreseen their propensity , sooner or later , to force a war upon this country .
He feared , however , that we should never submit to conscription , unless possibly in a crisis such as the present .
For this reason , and in furtherance of his scientific work on hygiene and dietetics , he founded the National League for Physical Education and Improvement , an organisation devoted to the nurture , from infancy upwards , of a healthy , vigorous , and high-spirited people .
The League , it is to be hoped , is now so far established in the public favour and interest as to survive the loss of its leader .
The fulfilment of its purpose would be his most signal memorial .
By academic and official decorations Lauder Brunton was richly distinguished\#151 ; he was knighted in 1900 and received a baronetcy in 1909 ; but perhaps , in his loyal and patriotic heart , the honour of none of these was to be compared with that of the devotion of his younger son , a promising Cambridge medical graduate , who last year gave his life on the field of battle for his country ; his " dearest pride , " as he sought to make it , but also a bereavement which , falling but a brief five years after Lady Bruhton 's death , deepened the shadows of his latter days .
Happily his elder son , also on military service , and his devoted daughters were still spared to him .
Brunton was happy both in his life and in his death , comforted in his passing away by the respect and affection of all who knew him .
Indeed , no one could speak with him without being affected by his sweet , persuasive enthusiasm , his keen intelligence , his gentle acceptance of all differences of opinion , his frank , affectionate courtesy , and that faith in his art and in mankind , which engendered a like faith and hope in those who only too often sorely needed these consolations .
C. A. xlix HUGO KRONECKER , 1839-1914 .
mjGO Kronecker was born on January 27 , 1839 , at Liegnitz , in Prussia .
His father was a merchant ; his elder brother , Leopold , the well-known mathematician .
Hugo studied Medicine at Berlin and at Heidelbero- .
at the latter place he came under the influence of Helmholtz , and commenced an enduring friendship with Kuehne .
His graduation thesis was on muscular fatigue , a subject which remained of permanent interest to him .
Kronecker s original intention was to devote himself to clinical medicine ; accordingly , in 1865 , he accepted an Assistantship under Traube in Berlin .
But owing to a threatening of pulmonary disease he went to live for a time in Pisa , here he acquired a mastery of the Italian language and an affection for things Italian which lasted throughout life .
He was also an accomplished Erench scholar , but although he knew English well he was always somewhat shy of speaking it .
The turning-point in his life came in 1868 , when he started working at the famous Institute of Physiology at Leipzig , where he became Assistant in 1871 , and Extraordinarius in 1874 .
In 1876 he was invited by du Bois-Reymond to undertake the direction of Experimental Physiology in the Berlin Laboratory , a position which he held until 1884 , when he was appointed to the Chair of Physiology at Berne .
In Berne he completely re-organised the department , and a new Physiological Institute , which he termed the " Hallerianum , " after the famous old Berne physiologist , Albrecht von Haller , was erected under his auspices .
Within the walls of this Institute , and in a modest but delightful dwelling which he built for himself close by , he passed the remainder of his life , happy in his work and in the visits of his friends , to whom he loved to dispense a cordial hospitality ; happy especially in the companionship of his charming wife and family , which consisted of a son and daughter .
It was in Leipzig , in 1876 ( during the course of a summer semester spent in Ludwig 's laboratory ) , that the writer first came to know Kronecker ; the acquaintance there formed grew into an intimate friendship .
At that period the Institute was in full activity ; a large number of investigators , gathered from all parts of the world , were working there .
Of those who were present at the same time as the writer , the names of von Basch , Baxt , Bowditcli , Buchner , Cyon , Drechsel , Eleehsig , von Frey , Gaskell , Gaule , Hesse , Merunovicz , Mosso , and Schwalbe , spring at once into one 's memory and serve to gauge the scientific activity of the community which centred around the genial master , Carl Ludwig , who personally directed all the work of the Institute .
But of its social activity Kronecker was the leader , and much of the pleasure which those who were working in Leipzig experienced was due to the tactful manner in which he contrived to bring Hugo Kron together into happy intercourse the heterogeneous elements of which the little group of fellow-workers consisted .
' Kronecker can hardly be described as a great physiologist .
His work , although abundant and sound , is in no way epoch-making .
He was meticulously accurate to the smallest detail ; this rendered the progress of his investigations slow , but it also rendered it sure .
His favourite subject was the nature of cardiac action .
It was he who first elaborated a practical method for recording the contractions of the isolated frog-heart which enabled the " staircase " phenomenon and the " all or none " condition to be satisfactorily investigated .
Later he turned his attention to the mammalian heart , in which he endeavoured to demonstrate the existence of a peripheral nervous centre .
Himself a keen alpinist , he took an active interest in the organization of the stations established in the High Alps by Italian physiologists , and especially by his friend Angelo Mosso , for the purpose of recording observations on the effects of life at high altitudes upon the bodily functions .
And in collaboration with his pupil Meltzer , he added materially to our knowledge of the mechanism of deglutition ; the result of the joint investigation being to demonstrate for the first time the method by which a fluid bolus is carried from the mouth to the stomach .
The devising of new methods and the designing of new forms of apparatus was ever a source of pleasure to Kronecker .
It is to him we owe the only precise method of graduation of the sliding induction coil which we possess , as well as many new and ingenious devices in other apparatus .
His partiality for this kind of work is evidenced by the interest he took in the establishment of the Marey Institute in Paris , which was formed for the demonstration of new physiological methods , and it says much for the universal appreciation in which Kronecker was personally held that , although a German , nay , even a Prussian , he was for several years President of that essentially French institution .
It was with the active assistance and collaboration of Kronecker that the series of International Congresses of Physiology , which have proved so successful , was established , although the chief credit for them must be given to Sir Michael Foster and the Physiological Society of Great Britain .
It will be many years before such a Congress can meet again .
And no one would , we may be sure , have regretted more than Kronecker the estrangement with so many of his friends which the war must necessarily have produced .
But he died , suddenly , at Nauheim , two months previous to that fateful August of 1914 ; and if we consider the effect which would have been produced upon his affectionate nature by such estrangement , his friends in this country , and they were many , much as they deplore his loss , cannot but think regarding him , Felix opportunitate mortis !
E. A. S. li ELIAS MECZNIKOW , 1845-1916 .
One of the most remarkable figures in the scientific world passed from among 0n 15'1916 ' Ehe Metchnikoff\gt ; as they wrote his name in France , his adopted home , stands out as the type of a gifted , indefatigable investigator of Nature who , m accordance with his beautiful and earnest character , never faltered in his career , but from his boyhood onwards devoted himself to the minute study of animal life .
By a natural and , as it seemed , inevitable process he passed through the study of the microscopic structure and embryonic growth of simple marine organisms to the investigation of human diseases and to his great discoveries of the nature of the process known as inflammation and of the mechanism of " immunity " to infective germs and the poisons produced by them .
By every zoologist in the world he was especially honoured and revered ; for it was to him that we owed the demonstration of the unity of biological science and the brilliant proof of the invaluable importance to humanity of that delightful pursuit of the structure and laws of growth and form of the lower animals which he and we had pursued from pure love of the beauty and wonder of the intricate problems of organic morphology .
Just as his chief and friend , the great Pasteur , was privileged to proceed directly and logically in his own life 's work , by his genius and insight , from the discovery of astonishing new facts as to crystalline structure\#151 ; which seemed to have no bearing on human affairs\#151 ; to the understanding ( by the aid of those discoveries ) of fermentation and infective disease ; so did Metchnikoff himself both discover the activity and universality of the organic cell-units which he called " phagocytes , " and at once proceed to give the demonstration of their prime importance in the process known as inflammation and the understanding of " immunity , " which has revolutionised medical theory and practice .
Metchnikoff , though one of the greatest benefactors of mankind , by his discoveries as to the nature and consecpient treatment of disease , did not set out on his career with any preconceived intention of arriving at what are called " practical results .
" Like so many others of the greatest discoverers , he was attracted to the field of his life 's work by a delight in its beauty .
His aesthetic sense was gratified by the observation and discovery of the relations of the marvellous phenomena of structure and function in the teeming life of earth and sea\#151 ; only revealed by the microscope , and then only to the strenuous , conscientious , and faithful student .
He wandered , as though led by instinct , into this enchanting " fairyland , " and , as has happened to others , in the midst of his ever-varied , ever-fascinating experiences , he suddenly and unexpectedly found himself in sight of something different\#151 ; a thing of vast and immediate value to humanity .
He saw under his hand , as it were , a discovery which might prove to be of lii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
enormous importance to the life and health\#151 ; " the well-being " \#151 ; of mankind .
He had become familiar with the food-ingesting amoeba-like cells in the blood and tissues of minute transparent animals\#151 ; so minute and so transparent that he could watch them in life , with a powerful microscope , without damaging or interfering with their activities .
He saw , in a flash of prophetic insight , the significance of these " eater-cells , " or " phagocytes , " as he named them .
His knowledge and training in the sciences of chemistry , physiology , anatomy , and pathology enabled him to guess correctly that it was their business to engulf and destroy noxious intrusive particles which might find their way into the animal of which they formed part , and , above all , to attack and destroy those agents of infective disease , the bacteria and other microbes , which had been but recently recognised , owing , in the first place , to the work of Pasteur , as the specific causes of a whole series of deadly maladies .
Thus his pleasant tentative explorations in microscopic zoology were arrested .
He had found a great treasure .
It was not one which would enrich him\#151 ; for that he had no ambition .
But it would , he foresaw , in all probability prove to be of vast service to his fellow-men .
It became his duty , and no less his pleasure , to devote himself to the securing and safe delivery of this great treasure , and all that it carried with it , to the world of men .
In this spirit , and with splendid success , he devoted the rest of his life , untiringly , to the foundation and elaboration of his doctrine of phagocytosis .
Elie Metchnikoff was born in 1845 at Ivanavka , near Kharkoff .
His father was of Moldavian ancestry and an officer of the Imperial Guard , from which he retired with the rank of major-general .
He was devoted to the pursuits of a country gentleman , among which horse-racing was his special favourite .
He had no tendencies to scientific study .
Elie 's mother , whose family name was Nevakovitch , was a Jewess .
He owed his mental gifts largely to her .
From childhood he showed a strong taste for the study of Nature .
After passing through the high school of Kharkoff he entered the university at the age of 17 and completed his degree examinations in two years , when he went off ( in 1864 ) to Germany for further biological training .
He had already , in 1863 , when he was only 18 , published a paper in Beichert 's \#163 ; Archiv ' on the stalk of Yorticella , and another on the nematode Diplogaster .
In 1864 he published some observations on the Acinetarian Sphaerophrya .
After a brief sojourn in Heligoland he went to work in Leuckart 's laboratory at Giessen , and accompanied the professor when the latter was promoted to the Chair of Zoology in the University of Gottingen .
In Leuckart 's laboratory he worked at the parasite of the frog , Ascaris nigrovenosa , and made the important discovery of the fact that the hermaphrodite parasite of the frog 's lung hatched from eggs gives birth viviparously to a free-living generation of males and females .
This he published in 1865 in Beichert 's 'Archiv , ' and a translation of his paper appeared in the 'Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science ' in 1866 .
Leuckart claimed to have made the discovery " with the assistance of Elias Mecznikotv .
Ini Herr Meeznikow/ ' but Metchnikoff briefly stated that this was erroneous and that he alone had done the work , in the absence of Prof. Leuckart and without his aid or suggestion .
Naturally this terminated their friendly relations .
^ In the same year lie published some notes on those little-known microscopic animals , Icthydium , Chsetonotus , Eehinoderes , and Desmoscolex This also was translated for the 'Quarterly Journal ' in 1866 , and thus I became familiar with his name and the interesting c laiacter o is woik , though I did not make his personal acquaintance until years latter , when ( in 1888 ) Pasteur introduced me to him in his laboratory in the Eve Vaugirard .
These papers were rapidly followed in 1866 by others showing his first-rate powers of accurate observation and originality , viz. on a European land Plananan ; on the development of Myzostomum , the ecto-parasite of the feathei-star , which he showed to be a modified Ohsetopod ; on insect embryology ( Hemiptera and Diptera ) ; on the remarkable new rotifer , Apsilus lent if or mis ; and on the viviparous reproduction of the larvae of the fly Ceeidomyia .
Then he sojourned for a time ( 1867 ) at Naples ( before the days of Dohrn 's Zoological Station ) and wrote on the embryology of the cuttle-fish Sepiola , on the strange marine forms Chaetosoma and Ehabdogaster , and in 1869 on Tornaria ( which he showed to be the larva of Balanoglossus ) and on the embryology of Echinoderms and of jelly-fish .
In 1870 he was appointed Professor Ordinarius of Zoology in the University of Odessa , and soon afterwards published papers on the embryology of Chelifer and of Myriapods .
In the previous year he published an interesting paper on the little Trematode parasite of fishes ' gills\#151 ; Gyrodactylus\#151 ; and joined with that fine naturalist , Claparede , whom he met at Naples , in a paper on the embryology of Chsetopods .
After his appointment at Odessa his work was interrupted by the illness and death from tuberculosis of his first wife , whom he had married in 1868 .
In spite of every care and a long sojourn in Madeira , whither he accompanied her , she died there in 1873 .
In 1874 we find a paper by him " On the Eyelids of Mongolians and Caucasians , " of considerable value to anthropologists , and in 1877 one of a bionomic character on " The Struggle for Existence between Two Species of Cockroaches\#151 ; Periplaneta orimtalis and Blatta In 1875 he married his second wife , Olga Belocoyitoff , who was only 17 years of age .
She had just completed her studies in the " lyc4e " of Odessa , and attended after her marriage her husband 's zoological teaching in the university .
She survives him , and was , for 40 years , his constant companion and ceaselessly devoted friend and helpmeet .
She often aided him in laboratory work and by her knowledge of English and other languages , though her special gifts , which she has cultivated to a high degree of excellence , are in painting and sculpture .
From time to time she has published her own contributions to subjects which were occupying her husband 's attention .
The earliest of these is one " On the Morphology of the Pelvis and Shoulderliv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
girdle of the Cartilaginous Fishes , " published in the ' Zeitsch .
Wiss .
Zoologie , ' 1880 .
Metchnikoff holds an important place beside his great fellow-countryman and intimate friend , Alexander Kowalewsky ( who died some years ago ) , in the establishment of what may be called cellular embryology and the investigation of the early stages of development of invertebrata by following out the process of cell-division and the arrangement of the early formed cells in layers .
In the 12 years 1875 to 1886 , when his last embryological paper was published , he produced many important memoirs on cellular embryology\#151 ; namely , on that of calcareous sponges ( in which he showed that the inner and outer primitive layers had been transposed in regard to their origin by Haeckel and Miklucko-Macleay ) ; on that of jelly-fishes , of Planarians , of Echinoderms , of Ctenophora , and of Medusae .
These were accompanied by important theoretical discussions and suggestions as to the ultimate ancestral origin of the endoderm and the mesoblast .
He also wrote on that curious group of minute parasites , the Orthonectids , and on insect diseases .
But the new departure in his fruitful career was approaching .
It grew out of his observations on living jelly-fishes and sponges and on the transparent marine embryos of Echinoderms and the transparent floating mollusc Phyllirhoe .
In 1882 , owing to political disturbances in the University of Odessa , Metchnikoff migrated to Messina , the harbour of which is celebrated among zoologists for its rich fauna of transparent floating larvae and adult glass-like Pteropods and jelly-fishes .
Here he developed his views , already foreshadowed in 1880 ( ' Zoolog .
Anzeiger ' ) , on intracellular digestion exhibited by the amoeboid cells of animal organisms , and published a series of papers in which the name " phagocyte " is first applied to these cells .
In this , as in similar cases of discovery , neither Metchnikoff himself nor any of his friends claimed that he was the first to observe all the facts leading to his generalisation .
He was not the first to witness the ingestion of foreign particles , of fragments of dead tissue , and even of bacteria , by the amoeba-like cells of the animal body .
He knew and cited the early observations of Haeckel on the ingestion of pigment granules by the amoeboid blood-corpuscles of the sea-slug Tethys .
He knew and cited the numerous observations on the activity of large amoeboid cells in assisting the resorption or rapid destruction of other tissues in some special instances .
He knew the observations of Jeffrey Parker and others on the intracellular digestion of food particles taken into their substance by the endoderm cells lining the digestive cavity of Hydra .
He knew Koch 's observation of bacilli within a colourless vertebrate blood-corpuscle , attributed by that observer to the active penetration of the blood-corpuscle by the aggressive bacilli .
These and other like instances were all regarded as .
exceptional by their observers and not interpreted as evidences of a definite and universal activity of the amceboid cells of large physiological significance .
Metchnikoff was acquainted with the remarkable discoveries of Cohnheim , Strieker , and others ( in some of which I had a pupil 's share during my stay in the winters of 1869-70 and 1870-71 at Vienna and Leipzig Elias Mecz lv lespectively ) .
The pathological laboratories were fall of observations and talk about the diapedesis and " out-wandering " of the amoeboid corpuscles in inflamed tissues , the origin of pus corpuscles , and the activity of the amoeboid cells in the stellate cavities of the frog s cornea and other connective tissues when stimulated .
Metchnikoff put two and two together , and formulated the proposition that in all multicellular animals the main function of the cells derived from the deep or mid-embryonic layer between the dermal and intestinal lining layers is ( with exception of those which become " muscular cells ) nutritional , and that they possess the power of ingesting and digesting as does an amoeba solid particles , whether such particles are introduced from the outside or are parts of the organism which , owing to one reason or another , must be broken up and removed .
The amoeboid cells in connective tissues and in the blood and lymph are such eater-cells or phagocytes , as he now termed them .
He at once proceeded to explain the significance of these phagocytes and their utility to the organism , not only by pointing to their work as scavengers removing injured and dead tissue , to which they are brought in hundreds of thousands by the process known as inflammation , but he also immediately gave first-class importance to their recognition by connecting them with Pasteur 's great discoveries as to the cause of infective diseases by poisonous " microbes " which intrude into previously healthy organisms .
He further connected his generalisation with Darwin 's theory of the origin of species by the natural selection of favoured races in the struggle for existence .
He published in 1884 an essay entitled ' The Struggle of the Organism against Microbes , ' in which he maintained the thesis that the phagocytes , universally present in multicellular animals , have been developed and established by natural selection in the animal organism as a protection against intrusive disease-causing bacteria .
He was able in 1884 to observe and give illustrative drawings of a demonstrative case of the activity of the phagocytes in the blood of a transparent fresh-water flea ( Daphnia ) when it was infected by a yeast-like parasite called Monospora .
This parasite frequently makes its way into the blood of the water flea and , multiplying there , often causes death .
Metchnikoff watched with his microscope and made careful drawings of the phagocytes as he saw them in the living flea engulfing and digesting the intrusive Monospora .
In some cases the phagocytes , in others the Monospora , got the upper hand .
Later , when I knew him , he had a small aquarium dedicated to the cultivation of these demonstrative water fleas and their infective microbe .
Having now determined to give up his zoological and embryological researches in order to devote the rest of his life to the development of his doctrine of " phagocytosis , " Metchnikoff accepted the invitation to become director of a new bacteriological laboratory at Odessa , but , finding the conditions there not favourable to his special work , he relinquished the post in 1888 and , having fortunately been cold-shouldered in Berlin , came to lvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Pasteur in Paris , who , thoroughly appreciating the value of his work , gave him a laboratory and every facility for his investigations in his own institute , at that time located in the Nicole Nor male , rue Yaugirard .
When , a few years later , the Institut Pasteur was built in the rue Dutot , Metchnikoff was given a fine suite of laboratories , lecture-room , and space for keeping animals , and became sub-director of the Institute a few years ago .
Young investigators now came in growing numbers to Paris in order to work in Metchnikoff s laboratory , and he pursued with triumphant success , but not without opposition and sometimes insult from the older and more ignorant medical men , the establishment of his views as to the essential importance of " phagocytosis " in resistance to disease .
Among his more fatuous opponents was a prominent English pathologist who scornfully alluded to his views as " Metchnikoffism .
" In 1892 he produced as an illustrated volume , with the title ' The Comparative Pathology of Inflammation/ the substance of a course of lectures delivered at the Institut Pasteur .
It is one of the most delightful examples of scientific method conceivable .
It is essentially a careful and logical presentation of minute observations arranged so as to bring before the reader the evidence in favour of his argument .
He invariably followed this method in the controversies in which he necessarily engaged .
He never recriminated ; he never cited mere authority nor endeavoured to falsify his opponent 's statements by " smart " word-play .
He simply made new experiments and observations suggested by his adversary 's line of attack , and so practically smothered him by the weight of honest , straightforward demonstration of fact .
He showed that in the lower animals the phagocytes are attracted in hundreds by " chemiotaxis " to intrusive or injurious bodies which occur in the tissues , and then either enclose or digest them .
He proceeded to show that in the vertebrates , where the immense network of the blood-vessels is under the control of the nervous system , " inflammation ' ' is set up as a curative process , and that the elaboration of its mechanism has been established by natural selection .
A local arrest of the blood-stream is produced by the nerve-control of the vascular system , resulting in the out-wandering from the now nearly stagnant blood of phagocytes chemically attracted to an injured spot , where , arriving like an innumerable crowd or army of scavengers , they proceed to engulf and digest tissue which has been killed by injury , and similarly to isolate or to destroy and digest injurious intrusive substances , prominent among which are infective poisonous bacteria .
Metchnikoff thus finally and conclusively " explained " the process called " inflammation .
" His attention , and that of his pupils , was now given for some years to the great question of " immunity .
" How is it that some individuals are either free from the attacks of parasitic micro-organisms to which their fellows are liable , or , if attacked , suffer less seriously than others do ?
To answer this question is to go a long way to the solution of the great practical question as to how to produce immunity to infective disease in man .
It involved the investigation of the chemical activities of the phago- Elias Mecznikoiv .
lvii cytes , to the knowledge and theoretical understanding of which a great number of highly gifted leaders of experimental inquiry\#151 ; to name only Ehrlich .
Behring , and Almroth Wright\#151 ; have contributed in the most impoitant way .
A large series of investigations and records of experiment was now continuously produced by Metchnikoff or by his assistants under his immediate supervision .
The ' Annals de lTnstitut Pasteur ' are largely made up of these records and discussions .
In 1901 , Metchnikoff produced his great book on ' Immunity in Infectious Diseases , ' an English translation of which was at once published .
The subject branched out into various lines , such as are indicated by the names serotherapy , toxins and anti-toxins , haemolysis , opsonins , and bacteriotropins .
It must suffice here to state that Metchnikoff successfully established the doctrine that it is to the healthy activity of our phagocytes that we have to look not only for temporary protection , but for immunity against the micro-organisms of disease .
Since 1901\#151 ; until he fell ill last winter\#151 ; Metchnikoff was incessantly active in his laboratory , working there from early morning until evening , when he took train to his country house on the heights above the Seine .
Rarely would he tear himself away from his absorbing work to enjoy a holiday .
He went a few years ago to Astrachan , on the Caspian , to enquire for the Russian Government into the occurrence of bubonic plague in that region , and studied also the incidence of tuberculosis in the town populations and among the Kalmuck Tartars .
On the latter subject he gave ( in response to my urgent request ) a valuable lecture in London before the National Health Society ( in 1912 ) , and on other occasions he made short visits to this country in order to receive honours and deliver special discourses\#151 ; as at the Darwin Celebration at Cambridge in 1909 .
The variety of infective diseases to the experimental investigation of which he turned the resources of his laboratory and his theoretical conceptions is truly astonishing .
As late as 1911 he wrote : " Perhaps before long it will be possible to explain diabetes , gout , and rheumatism by the injurious activity of some variety of microbe " ( preface to the excellent volume , ' Microbes and Toxins , ' by Dr. Etienne Burnet , published in London by Heinemann ) .
In 1903 he found time to write a profoundly interesting popular book , * The Nature of Man ' ( London : Heinemann ) , in which , among other things , he discourses of old age , and his view that unhealthy fermentation commonly occurring in the large intestine produces poisons which are absorbed , and lead to deterioration of the tissues of the walls of the arteries , and so to senile changes and unduly early death .
He satisfied himself , experimentally and clinically , that the use of " sour milk " as an article of diet checks or altogether arrests this unhealthy fermentation in the intestine by planting there the lactic bacillus , which , forming lactic acid , renders the life and growth of the bacteria of those special poisonous fermentations ( which cannot flourish in an acid environment ) impossible .
Hence , he himself daily took a pint or so of sour milk , and he recommended it to others , and arranged for the commercial preparation of a particularly pure and agreeable Iviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
" sour milk , " from the sale of which he scrupulously abstained from deriving any pecuniary profit .
This small , though valuable , adventure of his in dietetics has been\#151 ; unfortunately , but perhaps inevitably\#151 ; the one and only feature of his long career of vast scientific discovery which has impressed itself on the somewhat erratic intelligence of the " man in the street .
" In this connection , Metchnikoff made many investigations as to the presence of various kinds of bacteria in the intestines of both vertebrate and invertebrate animals , and the importance of those parasites in the digestive process .
Investigations were carried on in his laboratory as to the possibility of keeping the digestive canal of new-born animals ( tadpoles , chicks , rabbits , and insect larvae ) free from bacteria and the result upon the digestive process .
He found that the digestive canal of the large frugivorous bats was very nearly free from bacterial infection , and he spent some time himself , and employed one of his assistants , in studying in London the condition , in regard to this matter , of patients from whom Mr. Arbuthnot Lane had removed the large intestine .
His work on this subject was still in progress .
Another piece of work of immense importance to the health of the community , which we owe entirely to Metchnikoff , is the demonstration , carried out .
in the first place , by experiments in his laboratory on Chimpanzees , and later confirmed by the voluntary submission to experiment on the part of a young French medical man , that the application of calomel ointment is a definite preventive of the transference of the syphilitic virus from one individual to another .
This discovery has been made widely known , and has been officially and systematically applied by the public medical authorities in France , Germany , Austria , and other countries , with the most satisfactory results .
Metchnikoff himself anticipated that , in a few years ' time , the knowledge of this simple preventive would entirely extirpate the terrible disease in those countries sufficiently civilised to make use of it .
Metchnikoff was a Foreign Member and Copley Medallist of the Eoyal Society , a Member of the Institute of France , of the Academy of Sciences of Petrograd , and of many other societies .
In 1908 he was awarded the Nobel Prize for his researches on immunity , and he received only a fortnight before his death the aunouncement that the Albert Medal of the Society of Arts of London had been awarded to him in view of the benefit to humanity of his scientific discoveries .
I cannot close this imperfect survey of the impressive and ideally complete career of my friend without some few personal notes .
From the day when I met him in Pasteur 's laboratory in 1888 we became warm friends .
He was singularly simple , genuine , and unaffectedly good and unselfish .
I could tell a hundred tales of his benevolence and humane spirit ; of the unrecorded charitable aid given by him and his wife to the poor of Paris and to expatriated Eussians ; of his genuine kindness and consideration for all those who were his servants .
I am convinced that the devotion of the latter half of his life to the solution of the problems of disease was due to his goodness Elias Mecznikow .
lix of heart and his ardent desire to alleviate human suffering .
He never was a smoker , and 20 years ago gave up the use of alcohol entirely .
He had no taste for sport of any kind , and never indulged in " recreations " or " amusements or big social functions .
He was a devoted lover of music , and had much knowledge of art and many friends in the great art world of Paris .
His beard was large and his hair long , and he was thick-set and muscularly strong , though he became more and more bent , as the years went on , by his constant stooping over the microscope .
No year passed , after I first knew him , without my spending some time with him and Madame Metchnikoff in Paris or in their home at Sevres , and on several occasions he has stayed with me in London or earlier in Oxford .
From time to time he has shown to me the experiments and microscopic evidence upon which his own and his pupils ' discoveries were based , and has put before me the preliminary hypotheses by aid of which he was seeking\#151 ; as opportunity offered\#151 ; to arrive at further knowledge of appendicitis , syphilis , the yaws , infantile paralysis , green diarrhoea , cholera , tubercle , cancer , diabetes , gout , and rheumatism .
Only three years ago he carried out some new researches on a zoological subject\#151 ; the natural removal of black pigment from the wing-feathers of gulls\#151 ; which he proposed to publish in the ' Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science .
' But the terrible events of the last two years put such work out of his power .
In his last moments he insisted very urgently that an immediate autopsy should follow his death .
He had suffered for six months from pneumonia , pleurisy , and latterly bronchitis .
The autopsy showed atheroma of the aorta and related cardiac disease .
Metchnikoff died in the apartments of the Institut which had been assigned as a dwelling to Pasteur .
According to his wish , his remains have been incinerated , and the urn containing his ashes is placed in the library of the Pasteur Institute .
E. E. L. [ The preceding article is a corrected reprint ( with some additions ) of that published by the writer in ' Nature , ' July 27 , 1916 .
] VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; B. i lx HAROLD HENRY WELCH PEARSON , 1870-1916 .
The death of Prof. Pearson is not only a calamity from the point of view of the welfare of South African Botany , both pure and applied , but it also means the removal from the ranks of botanical investigators of an exceptionally active worker and an original thinker , who combined in an unusual degree the power of doing work with an intellectual equipment and temperament which enabled him to do it well and thoroughly .
Few men have made better use of their opportunities or have done as much as he did to advance botanical science in so short a period .
It is not only as a botanist that Pearson will be missed : he had many friends both in South Africa and in England who appreciated his singularly attractive personality and felt for him a deep affection .
His wide interests , his passion for grappling with botanical problems , and his love of Nature made him an inspiring teacher and a successful lecturer .
In South Africa he had friends throughout the Union , men of all shades of political opinion and social standing ; his honesty of purpose , his geniality , and devotion to duty enabled him to win the affection of those with whom he was associated , and to exert a wide influence not merely in scientific matters but in the affairs of daily life .
Harold Henry Welch Pearson was born at Long Sutton , in Lincolnshire , on January 28 , 1870 , and died on November 3 , 1916 , at the Mount Royal Hospital , Wynberg , Cape Town .
After recovering from the effects of an operation he contracted pneumonia , which was the actual cause of death .
He was privately educated ; after holding a teaching post at Eastbourne he entered the University as a non-collegiate student in 1893 .
In October , 1896 , he became a member of Christ 's College , and in 1898 , in consequence of his election to a Frank Smart Studentship , he migrated to Gonville and Caius College .
His career at the University was a series of successes .
As an undergraduate he was a particularly alert student ; he had a keen sense of humour and thoroughly enjoyed the best side of Cambridge life .
As he rapidly developed both intellectually and in his knowledge of men , he retained his boyish enthusiasm and a disposition unspoilt by closer contact with the world .
Pearson was appointed Assistant Curator of the Cambridge Herbarium in 1898 , and in 1899 he became a member of the staff of the Herbarium of the Royal Gardens , Kew .
In 1903 he entered upon his duties as Harry Bolus Professor of Botany at the South African College , Cape Town .
He was the first occupant of the Chair , and it would be difficult to find a man as well qualified as he proved himself to be to set a standard for succeeding generations .
Before leaving England he married the youngest daughter of the late William Pratt , of Little Bradley , Suffolk ; his widow alone survives Harold Henry Welch Pearson .
lxi him .
In 1916 he was elected a Fellow of the 'Royal Society .
On hearing of his election , he wrote : " I was a little surprised to find myself in the list this year ; that I was pleased needs no statement .
Under any circumstances I should appreciate the honour immensely ; under my particular circumstances I think I value it more than I should have done under some others isolated here from the centre of the things that interest me , this distinction means a very great deal to me .
" Pearson 's first paper , published in the'Annals of Botany in 1898 , deals with the anatomy of seedlings of the Queensland Cycad Bowenia spectabilis and includes a description of the apogeotropic roots of both young and adult plants .
Though he did not publish much on the Cycadaceae , Pearson made several important additions to our knowledge of this exceptionally interesting family , notably through his own observations in the field and the more continuous records kept at his suggestion by residents in the Cycad country .
He obtained convincing evidence of entomophily in Encephalartos villosus , and in many other directions added to the meagre information available with regard to the ecology and natural history of African Cycads .
He always had a special affection for Cycads , and was justly proud of the splendid collection of living plants cultivated under his supervision in the Kirstenbosch Garden .
In 1897 , aided by a grant from the University Worts Travelling Fund , Pearson left Cambridge for Ceylon .
The comparatively short time spent in the island was mainly devoted to the investigation of the Patanas , a peculiar savannah-like vegetation in the central mountain group at approximately all altitudes over 2000 feet .
At the suggestion of Dr. J. C. Willis , then Director of the Peradeniya Gardens , Pearson undertook the task of discovering the causes which led to the development of the patanas , and of ascertaining to what extent the vegetation showed adaptation to the ecological factors under the influence of which it had been selected .
He came to the conclusion that the peculiarities of the climate have co-operated with periodically recurrent grass-fires in transforming an open forest into barren grassy plains ; he made observations on the biological features of the flora , and discussed the factors concerned with the production of both wet and dry patanas , that is the vegetation above and below 4500 feet .
In the investigation of the anatomy of the vegetative organs he obtained the assistance of his friend Mr. J. Parkin .
It was expected that the anatomical characters which usually occur in plants living in insolated areas would be more strongly marked in the members of the dry flora than in the plants of the wet patanas , but it was found that the latter exhibited highly developed xerophilous features .
The dwarfing effect of the wind was recognised as an important influence and emphasis was laid on the lowering of the functional activity of the roots by the humic acids in the soil .
Pearson 's early training was exceptionally good as a preparation for his later activities at the Cape .
Familiar with modern laboratory methods , he was also a capable field botanist , and at Kew he learnt the business of a systematist .
His broad outlook , his wide knowledge of botanical literature , lxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
and his enthusiasm for research enabled him to compress into a short scientific career more useful work than most botanists would have been able to accomplish .
Most of the papers published during his official connection with the Royal Gardens deal with systematic botany ; he contributed accounts of several new species to the ' leones Plantarum , ' and in collaboration with Mr. Botting Hemsley , described collections of plants made by Dr. Sven Hedin and Sir Martin Conway from Central Asia and the Bolivian Andes respectively .
He assisted Mr. Hemsley in his comprehensive account of the flora of Tibet .
He wrote an article on the flora of Palestine for the 'Encyclopaedia Biblica/ contributed a section on the Yerbenaceae to the ' Flora Capensis , ' and one on the Thymelaeaceae to the ' Flora of Tropical Africa .
' At the suggestion of Sir William Thiselton-Dyer , he investigated the morphology and functions of the double pitchers of four species of Dischidia .
He showed that the outer pitcher is part of a modified leaf and corresponds morphologically to the single pitcher of Dischidia Rafflesian the inner pitcher being formed from the inflexed apical lobe of the leaf .
Good evidence is brought forward in favour of the view that the soil in the pitchers is carried there by ants , and that they use the inner pitchers as a refuge during temporary floodings of the larger outer pitchers .
This piece of work is surprisingly good considering that the material examined consisted of herbarium specimens .
The most important contributions made by Pearson to Morphological Botany are those on the Gnetales .
His first visit to the Welwitschia country was in January , 1904 , but the Herero rebellion seriously interfered with his field observations .
In a paper published in 1906 in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' he describes the climatic and physical conditions of the German territory , where he received invaluable help from the Imperial Consul-General , and gives an interesting account of his observations on the habit and habitat of Welwitschia .
He expresses the opinion that the period , 70-100 years , usually assigned as the duration of life , is much too short , and confirms Marloth 's statement that Welwitschia is dioecious ; he considers that the cones are probably pollinated by insects , and records the frequent occurrence of the beetle , though it was not until a subsequent visit that he obtained evidence convincing him that Odontopus is the pollinating agent .
Much new information is given as to the development of the male and female flowers .
Hooker 's account of the ovule is generally confirmed and considerably extended .
In the earlier stages of development the embryo-sac contains numerous free nuclei ; this condition is followed by partial septation , which produces a tissue of multinucleate compartments .
He found that , in the upper part of the embryo-sac , each " cell " has 1-2 nuclei , and later as many as 5 , while in the lower part of the sac each " cell " has 2-12 nuclei .
The " cells " with 2-5 nuclei produce prothallus-tubes which , he shows , contrary to Strasburger 's view , cannot be regarded as equivalent to archegonia .
He Harold Henry Welch Pearson .
lxiii concludes that the fertile end of the prothallus is more specialised than the corresponding region in Gnetum and that Welwitschia can no longer be Ephedra11 en'rmous SaP " whi\lt ; * separates from A second expedition to Damaraland in 1906-7 enabled Pearson to fill up gaps in the first account , and to confirm or correct his earlier impressions .
In the Further Observations " he discusses the morphology of the inflorescence and flower , particularly with reference to possible affinities to the Bennettitales and the flowering plants .
Additional facts are given about pollination .
The most interesting questions discussed concern the nature of the tissue in the embryo-sac .
The tubes which grow upwards from certain cells in the embryo-sac to meet the descending pollen-tubes are now termed embryo-sac-tubes in preference to prothallus-tubes , because the examination of a more complete series of developmental stages led him to regard the tissue in the macrospore as neither part of the gametophyte nor of the sporophyte , but a distinct organism , which he names the trophophyte .
All the free nuclei in the embryo-sac , when septation begins , are believed to be potential gametes .
The sterility of the tissue in the lower part of the sac is attributed to the fusion of the nuclei in the multi-nucleate compartments ; this tissue , with nuclei possessing more than the premeiotic number of chromosomes , is a by-product , resulting from the fusion of potentially sexual nuclei , and it agrees with the prothallus of the lower seed plants in providing for the nutrition of the embryo .
In Ephedra the endosperm is a true prothallus as in Conifers , but the recognition of the true nature of the Welwitschia prothallus raised the question of the morphology of the tissue in the embryo-sac of Gnetum and the Angiosperms .
It was primarily for the purpose of collecting material of Gnetum africanum that Pearson organised and , with the assistance of the Percy Sladen Trustees , successfully carried out his important expedition to Angola and other regions in 1908-9 .
He found in the embryo-sac of Gnetum a differentiation similar to that in Welwitschia ; after septation , the compartments in the lower part of the sac contain five or more nuclei , but , in the micropylar portion of the embryo-sac , septation does not occur .
Pearson also describes the germination of the microspore of Welwitschia and the development and structure of the pro-embryo .
His investigations clearly demonstrate that Welwitschia and Gnetum are related to one another more closely than either is related to Ephedra , a result which " might be expected from the geographical distribution of the three genera .
" By his own researches , Pearson not only very considerably extended our knowledge of Welwitschia and Gnetum , but his thorough and critical investigations have thrown much new light on questions of general interest , the nature of the tissue in the embryo-sacs of Gnetum and Welwitschia and of the Angiosperms , the morphology of the flowers and inflorescences , the embryogeny , and other subjects of morphological and biological interest .
Pearson 's generous distribution of material to other botanists enabled them lxiv Obituary Notices of Fellovjs deceased .
to benefit by his expeditions , and led to the publication of important results obtained from research along other lines of enquiry than those which appealed more particularly to himself .
The rapidity with which he dealt with the material collected on several expeditions and the thoroughness of the work compel admiration , especially when one remembers the small amount of leisure at his disposal and the ever-widening range of his activities .
Pearson handled the difficult problems suggested in the course of his researches with remarkable skill and , in dealing with the criticisms of other botanists , he always preserved a true sense of proportion and consistently adopted a fair-minded and scientific attitude .
In reviewing Pearson 's scientific life there is a danger of underrating the general botanical value of his exploration work in Pamaraland , Namaqualand , Angola , Bushmanland , and other regions .
His researches into the morphology and phylogeny of Welwitschia and G-netum naturally occupy a prominent place in an account of his achievements , and his determination to obtain material of these plants was a primary motive of some of his expeditions .
The Gnetales were not by any means the only objective .
He devoted himself with extraordinary energy to the investigation in the widest sense of the vegetation of the countries through which he travelled .
As he fully recognised , the excellent results of his botanical expeditions were in part due to the generous contributions by the Trustees of the Percy Sladen Fund , the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society , and other bodies .
He made large collections of herbarium specimens and supplied the Royal Gardens , Kew , the Garden of his old University , and other centres with many living plants .
As his own published papers show\#151 ; as well as those of other botanists entrusted with the description of his material\#151 ; he discovered many new plants and accumulated a large body of facts bearing on the distribution and ecology of South African vegetation .
The dedication of the volume of the ' Botanical Magazine ' for 1914 to Pearson is a graceful and well-earned tribute to his success as an explorer .
Pearson visited Damaraland four times ; on the first three occasions he was hospitably entertained by the German officials and on the last visit at the beginning of 1916 he was the guest of the Headquarters Staff of the Union Forces .
Pearson had a strong desire to take some share in the war and offered his services to the Cape Government ; his last expedition was , in some degree , war-work , as General Botha encouraged him to make a survey of the recently acquired territory .
In a letter written in April , 1915 , he said : " I have felt a little easier in my mind since I volunteered for local defence .
I am now enrolled as a mounted infantryman , my official title being Trooper Pearson , which gives me some measure of satisfaction .
" In letters during hifc travels he spoke of the fascination of following the changes in the vegetation in the course of a long journey and from time to time referred to progress made in the solution of many interesting phyto-geographical problems .
Had he lived a few years longer there is no doubt he would have worked up his material into a connected whole and , knowing how Harold Henry Welch Pearson .
lxv well qualified he Mas by training and ability to see things in their true perspective , one is able to realise to some extent how valuable such a digest of his knowledge and mature experience would have been .
During an enfoiced halt in Namaqualand Pearson made observations on the internal temperature of Euphorbia virosa and dichotoma .
He found that Euphorbia , with its large-chambered pith , responds more quickly than the Aloe to changes in the external temperature and attains higher maxima .
He also investigated the effects of wounding : in Aloe the lowering of the internal temperature is due to evaporation at the surface of water conducted through the water-laden xylem , while in Euphorbia the lowering is due in part to surface evaporation but also to the expansion of gases imprisoned in the pith .
The accounts of travels published in the 'Geographical Journal , ' the 'Kew Bulletin , ' the ' Gardeners ' Chronicle ' and elsewhere are admirably written and contain much that is of general interest .
Pearson took a prominent part in founding the Botanical Society of South Africa , and in 1915 under his editorship the Cambridge University Press published the first part of the ' Annals of the Bolus Herbarium , ' a periodical devoted primarily to work inspired directly or indirectly by Dr. Bolus .
Pearson was deeply interested in the economic aspect of his subject and illustrated not only by precept but by example the value of botanical research in relation to agricultural science .
With characteristic energy he undertook to attack the " Problem of the Witchweed " with which the Department of Agriculture was faced .
The Witchweed\#151 ; Striga lutea , a scrophulariaceous plant\#151 ; is a root parasite , known by many local names , e.g. , the Booibloem , Isona , Mealie gift , etc. , which attacks maize crops and causes considerable damage .
It is probably a native of South Africa , and its dispersal has been largely determined by the extension of maize cultivation .
Pearson , with the assistance of one of his pupils , studied the details of the haustorial structures and their connection with the host ; he also investigated the germination and distribution of the small seeds and made many experimental trials of different methods of dealing with the pest .
Previous attempts to germinate the seeds of Striga had been unsuccessful , and Pearson proved that germination occurs only in the presence of the host-plant .
His results have not only a scientific value , but they enabled him to draw up a number of practical instructions for the treatment of crops and for the prevention of the disease .
It was for many years Pearson 's ambition to bring about the institution of a National Botanic Garden : he felt that the Municipal Garden of Cape Town , first established as a Botanic Garden in 1848 , was wholly inadequate and unworthy of a country second to none in the richness of its sub-tropical vegetation .
Many botanists , especially visitors from Europe , had expressed disappointment with the existing state of affairs and deplored the absence of a State Garden comparable with those in other parts of the Empire .
The task of influencing public opinion , overcoming misunderstandings , and of enlisting the active co-operation of those in authority was one requiring lxvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
both tact and patience , qualities with which Pearson was fortunately liberally endowed .
Though diffident and retiring , he had the courage of his convictions ; he was deservedly popular and thoroughly trusted ; his one aim was to benefit the country of his adoption and the science which he loved .
In his presidential address to the Botanical Section of the South African Association for the Advancement of Science he stated the case for the establishment of a National Garden with admirable wisdom and foresight ; he dwelt on the neglect of the native plants , and pointed out that more South African species are cultivated in European gardens than at the Cape .
He emphasized the economic advantages to be gained from the cultivation of indigenous plants , the discovery of new sources of fibre , rubber , drugs , and other products ; he also urged the importance of adding to the Garden a National Herbarium , a Museum of Economic Botany , a Library , and Besearch laboratories .
The Prime Minister ( General Botha ) received a deputation in April , 1912 , and Sir Lionel Phillips warmly espoused the cause of a National Garden in the House of Assembly on May 6 , 1913 , when it was unanimously resolved to establish a State Garden at Kirstenbosch .
The Kirstenbosch estate , bequeathed to the nation by Cecil Rhodes , comprising nearly 400 acres , was handed over to Trustees and Prof. Pearson was appointed Honorary Director .
Work began on August 1 , 1913 .
It is an admirable site , and the undulating ground on the eastern slope of Table Mountain , which ranges from 60 to 1500 feet above sea-level , supports a rich native flora , including a fine forest of silver trees ( .argenteum ) .
Pearson 's aim was at last realised and , though he modestly disclaimed more than a comparatively subordinate share in its foundation , he is generally regarded in South Africa as the founder of the garden .
It was his tactful persistence and his faculty of communicating his enthusiasm to others that led those in authority to give definite expression to his wishes .
During his brief tenure of the Directorship , he gave himself unsparingly to the work of construction , and the impression left on my mind , after a visit of a few hours in July , 1914 , was that , under his guidance , the Kirstenbosch Garden would in course of time rival the best gardens in the world .
The author ( W. Duncan Baxter ) of an In Memoriam article in ' The Cape ' for November 10 , 1916 , writes : " It is Kirstenbosch that will feel his loss most .
During the last three years he had devoted himself heart and soul to that great undertaking .
He saw the importance and possibilities of the starting of the National Botanic Gardens there , and , under his most skilful and efficient direction , the gardens have progressed in a wonderful way and the foundation of all their future scientific work has been well laid .
All his spare time was devoted gratuitously to the work , and his genial enthusiasm infected everybody who came in contact with him .
He rests in the spot he loved so well , the Cycad Hill facing the mountain and overlooking the glen .
What more suitable spot could have been chosen for the resting place of the founder of Kirstenbosch ? . . .
The best memorial Harold Henry Welch Pearson .
lxvii that can be raised to him is to see that his work at Kirstenbosch is carried on , and the National Botanic Gardens made what he pictured them in his mind 's eye .
That is the way to perpetuate his memory , for , as long as Kirstenbosch exists , there will be linked with it the name of its founder\#151 ; the scholar and gentleman , Harold Pearson .
" A. C. S. VOL. LXXX1X.\#151 ; B. k

