On the Formation of Multiple Images the Normal Eye .
241 12 .
Although we did not find the Bacillus typhosus in any oysters obtained from the sea or from the markets , yet in our experimental oysters inoculated with typhoid we were able to recover the organism from the body of the oyster up to the tenth day .
We show that the typhoid bacillus does not increase in the body or in the tissues of the oyster , and our figures indicate that the bacilli perish in the intestine .
13 .
Our experiments showed that sea-water was inimical to the growth of the typhoid bacilli .
Although their presence was demonstrated in one case on the twenty-first day after addition to the water , still there appeared to be no initial or subsequent multiplication of the bacilli .
14 .
In our experiments in washing infected oysters in a stream of clean sea-water the results were definite and uniform ; there was a great diminution or total disappearance of the typhoid bacilli in from one to seven days .
15 .
The colon group of bacilli is frequently found in shell-fish as sold in towns , and especially in the oyster ; but we have no evidence that it occurs in mollusca living in pure sea water .
The natural inference that the presence of the colon bacillus invariably indicates sewage contamination must , however , not be considered established without further investigation .
16 .
The colon group may be separated into two divisions : ( 1 ) those giving the typical reactions of the colon bacillus , and ( 2 ) those giving corresponding negative reactions , and so approaching the typhoid type ; but in no case was an organism giving all the reactions of the B. typhosus isolated .
It ought to be remembered , however , that our samples of oysters , although of various kinds and from different sources , were in no case , so far as we are aware , derived from a bed known to be contaminated or suspected of typhoid .
17 .
We have shown also the frequent occurrence , in various shellfish from the shops , of anaerobic spore-bearing bacilli giving the characteristics of the B. enteritidis sporogenes recently described by Klein .
18 .
As the result of our work , we make certain recommendations as to the sanitary regulation and registration of the oyster beds , and as to quarantine for oysters imported from abroad .
" On the Formation of Multiple Images in the Normal Eye .
" By Shelfoed Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. , F.R.S. Received December 8 , 1898\#151 ; Read January 19 , 1899 .
[ Plate 5 .
] It is well known that a small bright object for which the eye is not accommodated often presents a multiform appearance , the number of separate images perceived varying in different cases from about six to Mr. Shelford Bidwell .
fifteen .
In Helmholtz 's ' Physiological Optics , ' drawings are given illustrative of the phenomena exhibited by a luminous point when the conjugate focus is situated a little in front of or a little behind the retina .
A narrow luminous line such as that formed when a spectroscope slit is held before a flame or other bright background may become similarly multiplied .
These and other allied phenomena are-believed to arise from the suture-like radial lines , six or more in number , which occur upon the two surfaces of the crystalline lens .
It is also known that as the result of disease or malformation of the eye , the patient may habitually see several images of single objects .
But in the course of a careful search among physical and physiological publications , in which Dr. Dawson Turner , of Edinburgh , has most kindly assisted me , I have been unable to find any reference to certain curious phenomena of vision which attracted my notice in the year 1897 , and which form the subject of the present communication .
It appears that under suitable conditions a normal healthy eye can see hundreds of independent images of a single point , an effect which probably results from the cellular structure of the lenses and the membranes associated with them .
In the earlier observations , the object consisted of a small bright disc .
Several different discs were employed , their diameters ranging from 05 mm. to 8 mm. , and other details were also varied , but ( when the circumstances were suitably modified ) the results were in all cases of the same nature .
It will be convenient to describe the procedure-actually carried out in a particular experiment ; but , except as furnishing a rough guide for the repetition of the experiment , no special importance must be attached to the distances mentioned ; they vary greatly for different individuals , and from time to time even for the same eye .
The condenser of a lantern was covered with two sheets of glass , the one ground and the other deep red .
In front of these was placed a brass plate , in the middle of which was drilled a hole inch ( 2 mm. ) in diameter .
Inside the lantern was an incandescent electric lamp of 25-candle power .
The observer , standing with his left eye at a distance of about 2 feet from the hole in the plate , first covered the hole with a concave lens of 11 inches ( 28 cm .
) focal length , held in his hand , and then slowly moved the lens towards his eye .
When the lens was some four or five inches away from the hole , the outline of the little bright disc began to appear multiple ; there seemed , in fact , to be a number of little discs almost , but not quite exactly , superposed .
As the lens approached the eye , the images became gradually more and more widely dispersed , and when the eye was reached , they had become completely separated .
There now appeared to be seven bright discs\#151 ; a central one surrounded by six others , their arrangement being fairly symmetrical ; these were backed by an irregular luminous haze Bidwell Roy , Soc. Proc. , Vo/ .
64 , Plate Fia .
3 .
Fia .
4 .
On the Formation of Multiple Images in the Normal Eye .
243of nearly circular outline .
If the light was made stronger , each of the circumferential discs acquired a pointed tail , directed radially outwards , and the whole appeared like a six-rayed star .
So far there is little or nothing new in the observation .
The observer then gradually moved backwards , still holding the lens at his eye ; the outer discs at once began to elongate radially , and each soon became resolved into two or more , the approximate symmetry of the figure being still retained .
When the distance from the eye to the hole was 3 feet , the number of images that could be counted was about twenty , and the appearance presented was happily likened , by an expert person who confirmed my observations , to that of a large unripe blackberry .
If an orange-yellow glass were substituted for the dark red one , the stronger illumination again gave rise to the development of tails , and the blackberry became transformed into a beautiful flower .
At 4 feet distance the images had increased to about forty , which was nearly the greatest number that could be counted with any degree of certainty .
But , while becoming much less easily distinguishable , they still obviously continued to multiply .
At 25 feet there was seen a mottled luminous patch streaked with a few bright lines , evidently corresponding with the sutures of the crystalline lens .
These bright lines were found to consist of overlapping images of the round hole , and traces of many similar images could be detected in different parts of the mottled patch .
The above described effects can be observed equally well and with but little modification when the lens employed is convex instead of concave ; indeed , any one who is skilled in the mangement of his eyes may dispense with the lens altogether .
I have tried to describe the phenomena as seen with my left eye .
With the right eye they are of the same general character , but differ in details ; in particular , the separate images first seen are less symmetrically arranged , and their number appears to be eight instead of seven .
The observations in question would be found difficult or impossible by a novice in optical experiment , partly on account of his inability to keep his eye in a definite state of accommodation , but chiefly perhaps because he would not recognise what he saw .
I thought that the observations might be rendered easier if the source of light had a more distinctive and conspicuous form than that of a simple circle .
Experiments were , therefore , made with a semicircular hole , and this was in some respects an improvement ; but far better results were afterwards obtained by using as a source of light the horseshoe-shaped filament of an electric lamp , screened by a coloured glass .
When such a lamp was looked at through a lens , concave or convex , of about 6 inches focal length , from a distance of a few feet , the roughly oval patch of luminosity formed upon the retina appeared to be made up of a crowd of separate images of the filament , some Mr. Shelf ord Bid well .
being brighter than others , as represented in fig. 1 .
The number was apparently few when the observer was near the lamp , and greatly increased as he retired from it , or moved the lens farther from his eye .
It occurred to me that the analysis of the luminous field would be facilitated if the attention could be confined to a small portion of it .
With this object in view I interposed an adjustable slit taken from a spectroscope , between the eye and the lens , and adjusted its width by trial .
When the round hole in the brass plate was viewed through this arrangement it appeared like a string of bright beads , arranged not in a perfectly straight line but somewhat sinuously .
A slight movement of the slit in a direction perpendicular to its length produced a curious wavelike motion of the beads .
By sufficiently increasing the distance between the source of light and the eye , perhaps as many as twenty-four or twenty-five bright spots might be made to appear in the row , but they could not be counted with certainty .
At a greater distance , or with a lens of shorter focus , the spots became indistinct and blurred .
The appearance present xl by the filament of the electric lamp , when seen through the slit , made ^ inch ( 0'3mm .
) wide , and a convex lens of 5 inches ( 12*7 cm .
) focus is very well imitated in figs. 2 , 3 , and 4 , which show the effect when the slit is in horizontal , vertical , and intermediate positions .
The imitation was produced by photographing the lamp by means of a lens covered with two layers of gauze , the one containing seventy-five meshes to the linear inch , the other fifty ; a slit inch ( 1 mm. ) in width was placed before the lens .
Another attempt was made to count the number of images in a row .
The whole of the filament was screened from view , except a very short portion of one limb , which was viewed from a distance of about 8 feet ( 2*5 m. ) through the spectroscope slit , and a convex lens of 5 inches ( 12-7 cm .
) focus .
A sheet of coloured glass was interposed as before , and care was ta ' 3n to hold the slit in such a position that the length of the row was a maximum .
According to the estimates of five different observers , the number of images ranged from twenty to thirty .
One excellent observer counted them several times , his greatest total being twenty-seven , and his smallest twenty-three .
Exact enumeration is perhaps impossible , for though at the first glance one receives the impression that the number of images is quite definite , and probably about twenty-five , closer examination shows that it is often very difficult to localise the line of demarcation between successive lnid^GS The number of images in a row varies with the dilatation of the pupil .
If a lighted candle be held near the eye with which the observation is not being made , the pupil of the observing eye contracts sympathetically , and two or three images disappear from eac ent o the row .
On the Formation of Multiple Images the Normal Eye .
245 If the distance between the eye and the incandescent filament is made much more than 8 feet , or if a lens of shorter focus is employed , the multiple images become blurred and indistinct ; at a distance of 20 feet with a lens of 3 inches ( 7-6 cm .
) focal length , the separate images appeared to have coalesced , but the band of light was crossed by a very large number of hazy dark lines at right angles to its length and at fairly equal distances apart .
Thinking that the original images had been resolved into still simpler elements , I endeavoured to ascertain how many elements were developed from each image .
Fixing my attention upon a conspicuous image near the end of the row , I moved a convex lens slowly forwards in front of the slit , and carefully watched the changes which occurred .
It was found very difficult to follow them satisfactorily , but the conclusion arrived at was that the space corresponding to a single image was ultimately crossed by from fifteen to twenty dark lines ; hence , assuming twenty-five images , the total number of elements would be four or five hundred .
Taking the diameter of the pupil when feebly illuminated to be -V inch , these latter observations seem to indicate some fairly regular anatomical structure in or near the crystalline lens , and composed of cells measuring about Tfooinch ( 0'01 mm-)in length or breadth .
It has been suggested to me that the cause may be found in the endothelium on the anterior surface of the lens , the cells of which are polyhedral and flattened , and about 002 mm. in diameter .
Their dimensions appear to be too large , but perhaps the agreement is as close as could be expected .
I do not know of any structure sufficiently coarse-grained to account for the images of which twenty-five or thereabouts occur in a row .
The mesh of a network which would explain these should be about T| j inch ( 0-2 mm. ) in length , and nothing of the kind is , I believe , to be found in the eye .
Probably , however , the effect is a composite , or rather a differential one , like that of the two pieces of gauze used in photographing the lamp .
If light passed through two or more superposed nets having fine meshes , dark bands would generally be produced , which would take the form of a network of a coarser mesh than those of the nets themselves\#151 ; possibly much coarser , as would be the case if the two nets were nearly alike in structure .
The seven or eight images referred to in the description of the first observation are , as before mentioned , undoubtedly due to the sections or sutures of the lens .

