II .
" On the Method of Symmetric Products , and on Certain Circular Functions connected with that Method .
" By the Rev. ROBERT HARLEY,.R.A.S .
, Corresponding Member of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester .
Communicated by ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. Received Oct. 18 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) After briefly adverting to his own and to Mr. Cockle 's earlier researches on the subject , the author proceeds in the first section of his paper to give a concise systematic exposition of the method of symmetric products , and to indicate a new application of the method to the solution of the lower equations .
Hitherto , in applying the theory to the solution of cubics and quartics , an auxiliary equation has been introduced , the symmetric product of which equation has been made to vanish .
The peculiarity of the process here employed , is that the auxiliary equation is dispensed with , and the symmetric product remains finite .
In the second section the author deals with circular functions .
The structure of such functions is considered , and a calculus devised by means of which operations upon them may be materially abridged .
The new cyclical symbol ( s ' ) is defined ; some of its applications are given , and its power as a working instrument is illustrated by examples .
By the help of this symbol , certain expressions which occur in endeavouring to extend the theory of symmetric products to quintics are greatly simplified and presented in an intelligible form , and the direct calculation is effected of a certain sextic equation on the solution whereof that of the general quintic may be made to depend .
The third and concluding section is chiefly occupied with the calculation of the perfect symmetric product for the quintic .
By combining Eulerian with Lagrangian functions , and introducing a simple artifice , the symmetric product for the quintic wanting in its second term is obtained .
This result is then made the basis of a calculation for the perfect form .
Employing the property of seminvariancy pointed out by Mr. Cayley , the author succeeds in effecting the calculation of the symmetric product for the complete quintic .
This product is composed of three hundred and twenty-five functions of twenty-four dimensions .

