1871 .
] Effect of Exercise upon the Bodily .
The author compares this formula with sixty-two of M. Darcy 's experiments , and records the results of this comparison in the last three Tables of his paper .
The paper concludes with an investigation of the rise in the temperature of a liquid flowing through a pipe caused by the resistances which its coaxial films oppose to their motions on one another ( or , as it is termed , their frictions on one another ) and on the internal surface of the pipe .
The pipe is in this investigation supposed to be of a perfectly non-conducting substance .
February 9 , 1871 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Effect of Exercise upon the Bodily Temperature .
" By T. Clifford Allbutt , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
, F.L.S. , Member of the Alpine Club , \amp ; c. Communicated by Mr. Busk .
Received November 12 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the author in carrying out the experiments recorded in the present paper was to inquire whether the regulating-power , of the organism held good under great variations of muscular exertion .
For this purpose he made frequent daily examinations of his own temperatures during a short walking tour in Switzerland , and found that the effect of continuous muscular exertion upon himself was to sharpen the curve of daily variation\#151 ; the culmination being one or two tenths higher than usual , and the evening fall coming on more rapidly and somewhat earlier .
Charts of the daily temperatures were handed in with the paper .
The author made reference also to some observations of M. Lortet , which differed from his own .
These observations , which did not come into Dr. Clifford Allbutt 's hands until his own experiments were partially completed , were adduced by M. Lortet to prove that the human body was very defective in regulating-power under the demands of the combustion needed to supply the force expended in muscular exertion .
Dr. Clifford Allbutt 's results were very decidedly opposed to those of M. Lortet ; for only on two occasions did he note the depressions of temperature which M. Lortet regards as constant .
It would seem , however , that the body is more or less liable to such depressions when engaged in muscular exertion ; but the cause of them is very , obscure .
Of the two low temperatures noted by the author , one occurred during a very easy ascent of lower slopes , and the second was observed during a descent .
The author thinks that they may be due to some accidental deficiency in combustion , and inquires whether the capacity of the chest in different individuals may account for the varying inProf .
J. Phillips 's Observations of the [ Feb. 9 , fluence of muscular effort upon them , and perhaps for the earlier or later sense of fatigue .
The sphygmographic tracings added by M. Lortet to his temperature-charts seemed to show a great inadequacy of circulation .
II .
" Observations of the Eclipse at Oxford , December 22 , 1870 .
" By John Phillips , M.A. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
Received December 28 , 1870 .
At my observatory , situated about one third of a mile eastward from the great establishment founded in the name of Dr. Radcliffe , the beginning of the eclipse was obscured by a passing cloud : the end was recorded at 13h 38 ' 38"= lh 35 ' 0"*9 Oxford mean time .
The progress of the obscuration was observed at unclouded intervals in the Arst half of the period , continuously during a clear sky in the latter half .
Finding it impracticable to observe and measure with ordinary micrometers in the early part of the phenomenon , I arranged to throw the image on a screen , and make my measures on it .
The driving-clock was affected by the extreme cold , so as to make it difficult to keep the sun 's image to one place , and it was convenient for other reasons sometimes to shift the image vertically ; the method which I employed , however , was independent of these displacements , and allowed of as many measurements of the cusps as might be desired .
It consisted simply in marking at any moment with pencil the situation of the cusps on the screen , and appending to each dot the time by the sidereal clock .
Joining , after the eclipse , these dots by a straight line , and then transferring a parallel line of equal length to meet internally a circle representing the limb of the sun , of the same diameter as the solar image , the chord of the cusps at the given time was obtained , from which , by an easy method , the place of the moon 's centre at the moment was derived .
The apparent diameters of the sun and moon were obtained by measure of arcs on the screen . .
' . .
11 The diagrams exhibit the whole process .
In diagram Ag .
1 , four of the lines are drawn from the dots on the screen , A A , B B , C C , D D. In Ag .
2 , equal and parallel lines are transferred to the solar circle , whose centre is S , so as to touch it internally at A ' A ' , B ' B ' , C ' C ' , D ' D'\#171 ; For each of these lines the centre of the moon 's place is marked ( A , B , C , D)\#187 ; thus the line of the motion of the moon 's centre is given , and the phase ot greatest obscuration determined .
\#166 ; .1 The line of motion of the moon 's centre is obtained by ruling through the mid points between A " and B " , B " and C ' , C " and D .
The point on this line reached by the moon 's centre at the moment of greatest o ^ scuration is found by bisection in M. Drawing through M and S the bisecting line of greatest obscuration , the length of the sagitta is deter-- mined .

