]\gt ; NCIS OWFjN RarQuant surements oniversity o Molecular Extinctions of the Aliphatic nes .
Liverpool .
( Communicated by Prof. E. C. C. Baly , F.R.S. Received October 2 , 1914 .
) The results of an examination of the absorption spectra of some saturated aliphatic ketones in alcoholic solution were published by Stewart and and it was shown that there seemed to be a direct connection between the persistence of the absorption band and the lical reactivity of the ketone in each case as measured by the rate of the formation of its oxime or sodium bisulphite compound .
Since the date of ihat paper the technique of absorption methods has been considerably ) roved , and it appeared worth while to investigate the absorptive power of the same ketones with the more efficient methods now available .
It was found at once that there is a very considerable difference in the position of the absorption band according to whether the ketone is observed in the pure state or in solution .
As is well known , the effect of the solvent generally is to shift the absorption maximum towards the longer wavelengths , this shift as much as 100 .
in the case of acetone and aqueous solution .
Moreover , it was also found that the shift varies irregularly from ketone to ketone , and it is therefore obvious that in order to lpare the ketones amongst themselves it is necessary to deal with the pure ketones and not olutions .
The only results that have been published of the absorptive power of the pure homogeneous ketones are those by Bielecki and Henri , and by urvis and McClelland .
In the first paper is given the absorptive power of pure acetone as determined by the well-known method of these .
authors , and , indeed , this is the only quantitative observation of the absorptive power of a pure saturated aliphatic ketone that has been published .
Purvis and McClelland state that in the case of diethyl ketone a layer mm. thick with one minute exposure shows complete absorption of all the rays between and , and of all the rays beyond I find that with Kahlbaum 's material once redistilled and a layer mm. 'Trans .
Chem. Soc vol. 89 , p. 489 ( 1906 ) .
vol. 46 , p. 3t$27 ( 1913 ) . .
Chem. Soc vol. 101 , .
ISIO ( 1912 ) .
Measurements of the Absorption of Light .
thick , the limits of absorption , 2415 , and ] .
These two results are in good reement .
A general theory as ards the presence of absorption bands was pu forward by Hartley , who postulated that they are due to molecular vibrations of a frequency comparable with that of .
This theory has been recently revived in a somewhat modified form by Hantzsch , by Henderson and Heilbron .
It is suggested that intramolecular vibrations take place , and that these rise to electronic vibrations form the of selective absorption .
If this theory were true it would be expected that the effect of substitution of the atoms of acetone by roups would very considerably modify the absorptive power exerted .
If the origin of the absorption is to be traced to the molecular vibrations , then surely great difT'erences would be found between the absorptive power , for example , of acetone and pinacoline , or of acetone and methyl nonyl etone .
On the other hand , an extended atio of the absorption spectl.a of certain of organic } ) ounds , it has been that the molecular vibration theory ls unsound , a conclusion that is strongly snpported by the results published by Henri and his from their upon the relation between the photochemical action of on the etones and their absorptive power .
It been shown that the of selective absorption of by anic compounds wouId seem to be in the electromagnetic field .
the molecules , and that the in absorbed does work upon these fields and establishes a photodynamic lilibriunl .
Whereas the molecular vibration theory attributes the phenonenon of absorption to optical resonance .
the electromaonetico force field theory attributes the absorption to the fact that the light does npon the closed or partially closed electromagnetic fields .
As has been previously shown , the latter theory affords an explanation of fluorescence phosphorescence and at ) same time establishes a direct between absorption and chemical reactiviCy , which the molecular vibration theory entirely fails to do .
S The application of the netic force field theory to the saturated aliphatic ketones enables certain deductions to be made as to the absorptive power of these compounds , and of these deductions every one has been confirmed by experiment .
Accordino to this view the of the absorption lies in the netic field surrounding the lnolecule a whole .
'Ber vol. 43 , p. 3049 ( 1910 ) . .
Soc. Proc , vol. 89 , p. 414 Baly and Rice , ' .
Chem. Soc vol. 101 , p. ( 1912 ) .
S Baly , ' Phys. Zeit vol. 14 , p. 893 ( 1913 ) ; 'Phil .
Mag vol. 2 p. 6.32 ( 1914 ) .
Mr. F. O. Rice .
follow as regards the absorption of these ketones .
groups wature oorce fdThis forigin igroup , odified bdjacent agroups.mportant deductions aength ought absorbed wubstitution oydrogen atoms ngroup b altered .
solvent .
hirdly , the substitution of a hydrogen atom by an alkyl group would have a snlaller the farther removed the atom is from the carbonyl group .
The effect of substitution would be small when the side chain of the ketone has reached a certain length .
Fourthly , the molecular absorptive power of all the ketones should be the same , that is to say , equal numbers of molecules of all the ketones should absorb the same quantity of light provided that the ketones are monomolecular and not associated .
As already stated , these deductions from the theory have all been experimentally confirmed .
When the present investigation was finished a second paper was published by Henderson and Heilbron , in which they suggested a method for putting their theory to a crucial test .
In hexamethylacetone , there are no hydrogen atoms immediately adjacent to the carbonyl group , and therefore this compound cannot undergo any change in chemical structure such as is postulated by these authors as the basis of absorption .
This compound , according to their view , therefore should not show any selective absorption , and in their paper Henderson and Heilbron stated that they had examined this substance and found that it possessed no trace of selective absorption .
According to the electromagnetic force field theory , it is obvious on the other hand that this compound should show selective absorption .
Owing to the substitution of all the hydrogen atoms of acetone by methyl groups , the absorption band should only be altered in position , while the nlolecular absorptive power should be the same as that of all the other ketones .
Henderson and Heilbron do not give any details as to the preparation and purification of the hexamethylacetone as used by them , and owing to the ssential i portance of their observation it was thought advisable to repeat Quantitative of the of their examination of this compound .
A considerable quantity therefore prepared and purified in the manner described below .
It was then found to exhibit a strong absorption band in the expected position , and also to possess exactly the same Dlolecular absorptive ) as all the other ketones examined .
This result makes Henderson and Heilbron 's theory that the absorption is connected with a in chemical uration quite untenable , and seems in a very marked manner to confirm the view the origin of the absorption lies in the electromagnetic field of ) CO group as modified by the adjacent carbon and atom The nnism of sorption cannot be dynamic in sense that the hydrogen lnbile .
On commencing this investigation , some preliminary tions showed that the ketones varied most irregularly themselves as their absorptive power , and in this way , ough the compounds bad been fractionally distilled with the reatest c and only the middle fraction used , doubt was thrown on their purity .
It further found that in , the fractions with a dilute neutral solution of potassium permanc a an immediate reduction of the anate took place , thus proving that impurities were present .
It was not found possible to purify any of the ketones by distillation alone , chem mical lethods were employed in each case .
It follows from this all the results that have been published of the absorption the etones are vitiated by the fact that the ketones were not exanlined in a state of absolute purity , with the exception of I ; ielecki and Henri 's measurement of acetone already eferred to .
When by suitable mealls the pure ketones are ) , a striking difference is at once noticed between the absorption curves before and } ) ification .
The absorption curve , such as has been published by authors , is represented as an absorption miiJinlum on the ultra-violet side of the band , the absorption increasing on either side of this ininlum .
After puri{ication this minimum disappears and the etone becolnes diactinic in this .
This is well shown in fig. 1 , ives the quiditative absorption curves of ethyl propyl ketone before and after purification .
It is obvious from this that the absorption minimum shown before ) urification is due to the presence of impurities , the general ) sorption of which is superposed upon the selective absorption of the pure ketone .
An inlportant point arises in connection with the presence of an impurity in the ketone .
The absorptive power of these compounds is relatively very small compared with that of ring compounds .
Consequently , the presence of such impurity , even in small amounts , would vitiate any quantitative measnrenlent of the absorptive power of an aliphatic ketone .
It is well known readily Methyl PMethyl iPropyt Ksurements oMethyl NThese kusodium bisulphite compound , from which tketone wegeneratedThe ketone whaken wxcess osaturated sution oodiumbeen formed Iphite uaximum pddition compound h to increase the velocity of the combination .
The mixture was filtered at C. and the double compound thoroughly drained , waslled once or twice with ether , and dried on a porous plate .
The dried material was transferred to a flask a solution of sodium carbonate .
The ketone was then , if possible , distilled off in a current of steam .
With the higher boiling ketones this was found to be impossible , owing the formation of coloured impurities which could not be removed by any means .
In these cases the steam was passed into the alkaline solution for just sufficient time to decompose the addition compound .
The solution was then cooled ) the ketone mechanically separated .
In the case of the lower boiling ketones which were distilled in a current of steam , the aqueous distillate was treated with potassium carbonate in order to salt out the ketone , which could then be mechanically separated .
In every case the ketone was treated with a little alkali in order to remove any trace of sulphur dioxide or carbon dioxide .
The several ketones prepared in this way were dried for 48 hours over fused calcium chloride and then distilled .
If the boiling point of the liquid were 10 or less , the distillation was carried out under ordinary pressure , but if the boiling points were above 10 the distillation was always carried out under reduced pressure .
\mdash ; This was purified by conversion into the oxime .
This compound was prepared according to the method bo.iven by Lapwortb and Steele .
* The oxime , when thus obtained , was recrystallised from alcohol .
It was then filtered and dried on a porous plate .
The pure oxime was then transferred to a flask a 10-per-cent .
aqueous solution of sulphuric acid and the pinacoline distilled over in a current of steam .
A certain amount of undecomposed oxime was found to be carried over with the pinacoline .
This was removed by shaking the ketone with a 15-per-cent .
solution of sodium hydroxide , after which it was washed with water , dried , and distilled .
Ethyl Propyl Ketone , Dipropyt Ketone , and Ethyl first attempts to purify these compounds were made by means of their oximes , 'Trans .
Chem. Soc vol. 99 , p. 1882 ( 1911 ) .
Mr. F. O. Rice .
but this was found to be impracticable owing to the that the oximes are oils would not crystallise , even at very low temperatures .
The final nlethod adopted was to convert these ketones into their semicarbazones , which the pure substances were regellerated .
The method of procedure was exactly similar to that used in the case of the oxi1nes and described above for pinacoline .
A further purification was made of dipropyl ketone by recrystallising it from hexane at a temperature of .
For this purpose a special apparatus was devised to enable the crystals to be filtered off at the low temperature .
It was found , however , that the ketone , after the recrystallisation , ( had identically the same absorptive power .
compound was prepared from pinacoline according to the lmethod described by Haller and Bauer .
* From 100 grm. of pinacoline about 60 .
of the crude ketone boiling at were obtained .
Since this ketone not form an oxime , semicarbazone , or hydrazone , the problem of its purification seemed to present some difficulty .
A preliminary test showed that on shaking with potassium anate solution considerable reduction took place .
The whole of the ketone was therefore shaken with successive portions of permanganate solution until no further reduction took place .
The ketone was then washed with water , alkali , acid , and again with water .
After drying the ketone was distilled with a Young fractionating column , and almost the whole quantity passed over at .
The absorption was then examined , and , as already mentioned , it was found to exert strong selective absorption and to possess the same molecular absorptive power as the other ketones .
In order to place its purity beyond question , the ketone was recrystallised from absolute methyl alcohol at .
The separated crystals , after melting , were washed with water , dried , and distilled under reduced pressure .
The whole of it distilled at at 15 mm. pressure .
No change was made in the ption by this treatment , and the purity of the ketone was thus established beyond any question .
The boiling points of the ketones are shown in the table on p. 83 .
The preliminary part of this investigation was carried out with a large quartz spectrograph , the usual qualitative absorption curves being obtained .
In order to obtain the requisite thin layers of the liquids , the micrometer cell as previously described was used .
This method of work was superseded by the spectrophotometric arrangement recently devised by the firm of Hilger and Co. With this apparatus it is possible to determine the extinc'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 150 , p. 582 ( 1910 ) .
' Baly and Rice , ' Trans. Cheul .
Soc vol. 103 , p. 91 1913 ) .
ntitative Measurements of , the Absorption of Light .
Meth 1meth 1hexy ketoneKetoneone P tion coefficient to as far as 2100 .
As a measure of the accul.acy of this instrument it may be said that it has been found possible to find the position of maximum absorption , that is to say the optical centre of the absorption band , to within The extinction coefficient , , is given by where is the intensity of the incident light , I the intensity of the light , and the thickness of the absorbing layer .
In order that the results be comparable it is necessary to take into account the molecular concentration of the ketone .
If be the normality of the ketone ( Specific Molecular weight ) , the mblecular extinction is given by The molecular extinction curves are obtained by the values of on the ordinates against the corresponding wave-lengths on the Owing to the compactness of the spectrophotometric apparatus it was not found possible to use the micrometer cell , but a number of cells were made of known thicknesses by cementing together two plain parallel quartz plates together with a wire ring of known diameter between them .
The thickness of the two quartz plates being known , it was possible to measure the distance between them to within mm. Several cells were made to hold liquid layers from mm. to mm. , and found to be sufficient for all the ketones examined .
The extinction curves may be discussed from two points of view , namely , the optical centres of the absorption bands , and the molecular extinctions ubstitution ohird hydrogen a causes a further shift of 30 A.U. The shifts obtained in the successive substitution of the three -hydrogen atoms of acetone are 23 , 50 , and 30 A.U. respectively .
The last five ketones show the effect of substitution on both sides of the carbonyl group , and , as may be seen , the same laws are obeyed , namely , that substitution in the and -positions only causes a shift in the centre of the absorption band .
The case of hexamethylacetone is peculiarly interest- ing .
The substitution of the three -hydrogen atoms in acetone by methyl to give pinacoline causes a shift of 103 , and therefore it is to be expected that the substitution of all six -hydrogen atoms should cause a shift of twice this amount , i.e. 206 .
The centre of the absorption band of hexamethylacetone should be at .
The observed value is 2950 .
now to the molecular extinction curves of the ketones , it may be pointed out that the curves of the ketones of the general formula , where is any saturated alkyl radical are all absolutely identical .
Further than this , the extinction curves of all the remaining ketones , with the exception of acetone and methyl ethyl ketone , are geometrically similar .
It is possible , therefore , to draw one general curve from which the molecular extinctions at any wave-length may be found for any ketone , excepting the two just mentioned .
The following table gives the wave-lengths and molecular extinctions for the ketones of the general formula Table II .
found .
In the case of methyl ethyl ketone the observed value of the show that it is associated to this extent .
an Conclusions .
ated , urface tension oetone sished fxtinction iated vgives tssociation factor.ftion , bsorptive power aetermined fhese ketones iourbeen saturated ketones oiphatic series hrepared i a state of optical purity .
thoroughly reliable .
3 .
The wave-lengths of the centres of the absorption bands depend on the number of methyl groups in the and positions relative to the carbonyl group .
Substitution of hydrogen atoms in the or further positions has no effect on the absorption band .
4 .
The ketones of the general formula have the centre of the absorption band at 2790 , and those of the general formula at , where is any saturated alkyl radical .
5 .
Substitution of an -hydrogen atom by methyl causes a movement of the centre of absorption .
U. to the red for each atom substituted .
Substi- tution for an atom with formation of the iso group causes a shift of 50 units , and when the substitution in the -position forms a tertiary group the centre of absorption moves 30 units .
There is thus an enhanced effect in the case of the and tert groups .
The movement of the band caused by the substitution of hydrogen by alkyl is always towards the red end of the spectrum .
6 .
The general results yree markedly with the observations made by Perkin on the lnagnetic rotation of these compounds .
The netic rotation is normal for methyl propyl ketone and the higher homologues , but abnormal in the case of methyl ethyl ketone , and still more abnormal in the of acetone .
Tbis is shown by the different position of the absorption bands in the case of acetone and methyl ethyl ketone from those of methyl propyl ketone and the higher homologues .
A uilar areement between } and magnetic rotation is observed in the effect of the grouping .
7 .
The results of the absorption measurements with the chelnicaL properties of the ketones .
The former show the farther removed the carbonyl group is a hydrogen atom , the less effect is produced on substitution by methyl , or the less is the relation between the bydrogen atom and the carbonyl group .
This is in agreement with the behaviour of the hydrogen atoms.on treating the ketones with chlorine or bromine .
8 .
The absorptive power or molecular extinction of all the ketones , with , the exception of acetone and metbyl ethyl ketone , is .
On the assuml ) tion that if acetone were unassociated it vould behave normally , the association factor is calculated from its molecular to be This number is remarkably close to that found by Ramsay and Shields , namely Similarly , the association factor of methyl ethyl ketone is calculated to be .
The method of light absorption measurement appears to give a mealls of determining the association factor of a liquid , and also it is not subject to any possible error due to surface concentration phenomena .
Ramsay and Shields ' work has been criticised on these grounds .
V0L .
Luminous Vapours Distilled the Arc , with to ! .
the Study of Spectrum Series their Origin .
By the Hon. R. J. STRUTT , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College , South Kensington .
( Received October 12 , 1914 .
) S1 .
Introduction .
This paper is in continuation of a former one .
* It has been observed by Stark , and subsequently by and Child that a luminous jet of mercury vapour , distilling away from the arc in vacuo , into a region quite remote from the electric field of the arc itselt may be deprived of its luminosity by an independent electric field .
The present paper describes experiments made to elucidate this effect in the case of mercury , and similar observations made upon other metallic vapours .
S2 .
iments with Nercury .
Condition in the Luminous Fig. 1 shows a form of apparatus suitable for mauy of the experiments .
The mercury cathode is formed by the top of a barometric column , connected at the bottom to a rubber tube and reservoir ( not shown ) .
The hollow iron tube , 5 mm. internal dia1neter and about 1 cm .
long , forms the anode .
It does not touch the glass walls , but is supported on an iron 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 90 , p. 364 1914 ) .
'Ann . .
Phys vol. 14 , p. 530(1904 ) .
Verh . .
Deut .
Phys. Gesell vol. 12 , p. 754 ( 1910 ) .
( Phil. Mag vol. 26 , p. 906 ( 1913 ) .

