I. " Notice of recent Scientific Researches carried on abroad .
" By the FOREIGN SECRETARY .
On the 29th of last November , an extract was read before the Berlin Academy from a memoir on the magnetization of iron and steel , by Professor Wiedemann .
In following up his investigations on the relation between the magnetic and mechanical properties of iron and steel , published in the 'Verhandlungen der Baseler Naturforschenden Gesellschaft , ' Band II .
, Professor Wiedemann has obtained the following results:1 .
If an iron wire be twisted during or even after the passage of a voltaic current through it , the wire becomes magnetic .
When the wire is twisted in the manner of a right-handed screw , the point at which the current enters becomes a south pole , in the opposite case it becomes a north pole .
If , during the passage of the current , the wire be twisted in different directions , the polarity changes with the direction of the twist .
If it be twisted in different directions after the interruption of the current , the magnetism produced by the first twisting diminishes rapidly .
2 .
If a voltaic current be transmitted through a magnet in the direction of its axis , the magnet will twist .
The experiments were made with wires of iron and steel , of from 1 to 2 millimetres in diameter , surrounded by a voltaic helix , and stretched by weights attached to their lower ends .
The torsion was measured by observing the image of a scale reflected in a mirror fastened to the lower end of the wire .
When the south pole of the magnetized wire was uppermost , and the current descends , the lower end of the wire , as seen from above , twists in the direction of the motion of the hands of a watch .
A change in the direction of either the transmitted or the magnetizing current changes the direction of the torsion .
As long as the magnetizing current remains constant , the torsion increases with the intensity of the transmitted current till it reaches a maximum .
When the intensity of the magnetizing current increases , the transmitted current remaining unchanged , the torsion diminishes .
The torsion of the wire is nearly independent of the weight by which it is stretched , as long as the intensities of the magnetizing and the transmitted current remain invariable .
3 .
The same torsion is produced when a voltaic current is transmitted through iron wires which have been for some time suspended vertically , and thus magnetized by the magnetism of the earth , or which have acquired permanent magnetism in any other manner .
4 .
A voltaic current being transmitted through an iron wire suspended in the axis of a spiral , if a weak current be afterwards transmitted through the helix , the wire will twist in the same direction as if the current had been transmitted first through the spiral and afterwards through the wire .
The torsion increases with the intensity of the magnetizing current till it attains a maximum .
On increasing further the intensity of the magnetizing current , the torsion diminishes .
5 .
If an iron wire be suspended in the axis of a helix , and temporarily magnetized , the intensity of the temporary magnetism will be weakened on transmitting a voltaic current through the wire .
On interrupting the current through the wire , the temporary magnetism of the wire will be increased .
If the circuit be completed repeatedly , whatever be the direction in which the current is transiritted through the wire , the temporary magnetism will diminish , and on interrupting the current will resume its original intensity .
6 .
If a voltaic current be transmitted through the iron wire after the magnetizing current has been interrupted , its permanent magnetism will be weakened .
On interrupting the current the permanent magnetism will increase a little , but will not regain its original intensity .
Repeated transmission of a current through the wire produces only a feeble diminution of its permanent magnetislm .
If a current be transmitted through the wire in an opposite direction , the magnetism will again be greatly enfeebled .
7 .
When a large portion of the permanent magnetism has been destroyed by repeated inversion of the current transmitted through the wire , and a current is made to pass through it first in one direction and then in the contrary direction , the magnetization in one case is found to be much stronger than in the other .
At the same time a very gradual diminution of magnetism is continually observable .
In the opinion of Professor Wiedemann , these phenomena may be explained by the self-same hypotheses which he used to illustrate his former observations on the relation between torsion and magnetism .
These are:1 .
The hypothesis of molecular magnets , which take a direction under the influence of a voltaic current and are thereby caused to rotate round their centres of gravity , and also to glide past one another , as in the case of torsion .
2 .
The hypothesis , that the molecular magnets , after their movements of translation and rotation , do not return quite to their original unmagnetic positions of equilibrium , even after the disturbing forces have ceased to act , so that bodies composed of these molecular magnets retain a permanent magnetism , and in certain cases , a permanent change of form , viz. torsion .

