]\gt ; XVII .
The Winds of Northern India , in relation to the Temperature and Vapourconstituent of the Atmosphere .
HENRY F. BLANFORD , F GS , leteorological Reporter to the Government of Bengat .
Communicated by Major-General STRACHEY , R.E. , C.S.I. , F.R. Received \mdash ; Read February 26 , CONTENTS .
PABr I.\mdash ; DESCRIPTION 0F T11E WINDS .
The Punjab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
565 The Gangetic Plain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
568 Plateau of Rajpootana and Bundelkund . .
571 Central India . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
573 Western Bengal and Orissa . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Gangetic Delta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
576 Assam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
578 The Arakan Coast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
580 Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
581 PART or TIIE WINDS no OTHEIt ELEIIIINTS or nINATE .
Temperature .
IForizontal and vertical distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
580Page Vapour-tension , Humidity and Rainfal ] . .
594 Atmospheric Pressure .
Horizontal and vertical distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
602 Certain effects of the Winds . . . . . . . . . . . .
613 GENERAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
617 APPEXDIX .
On the Cyclones of Bay of TABLES .
Wind-dircctions\amp ; c. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
629 Temperature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
643 Yapour-tension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
645 Humidity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
646 Rainfall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Atmospheric pressure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
651 INTRODUCTION .
IT is my object in this paper to describe the normal wind-currents of Northel'n India and their annual variation , and to trace out their origin and causes , in so far as these can be discovered in the local physical changes of the atmosphere .
For this kind of inquiry India offers many peculiar advantages .
At opposite seasons of the year it exhibits an almost complete reversal of the wind-system and of the meteorological conditions depending on it or on which it depends ; its almost complete seclusion , in a meteorological point of view , from the remainder of the Asiatic Continent , by the great mountain-chain along its northern border , simplifies , to a degree almost unexampled elsewhere , the conditions to be contrasted by limiting them to those of the region itself and of the seas around ; while it presents in its different parts extreme modifications of climate and geographical feature .
In its hill-stations it affords the means of gauging the of the atmosphere at permanent observatories up to a height of more than 8000 feet , and in the loftier peaks and ridges of the Himalaya , at temporary .
H. F. BLARTORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
565 Aetric , hygrometric , wind , and rainfall data , and some of these are less complete and factory than I could have wished .
Dr. MURRAY THOMSON'S Reports for the Northrutern Provinces , and Dr. TOWNSHEND'S for the Central Provinces , have , however , hrnished very ample and excellent materials ; and these gentlemen , and Mr. ELLIOTT of Roorkee ' , have taken much pains to ascertain with accuracy the constants to be applied to the observations of atmospheric pressure in their provinces , in order to render them comparable with those of Bengal .
But for the cordial cooperation of these gentlemen , it would have been impracticable to collate materials from so large an area for comprehensive discussion .
The leading geographical features of the country are too well known to necessitate any detailed description .
In describing the winds , I have adopted the following divisions , most of which correspond to natural orographical divisions:\mdash ; lst , the Punjab , formed by the lower of the five rivers and the smaller plateau above the Salt range that lies along the foot of the Hazarah hills ; 2nd , the Gangetic plain , which extends along the foot of the Himalaya from the Indo-Gangetic watershed to the commencement of the delta at Rajmahal ; 3rd , the .
plateau of Rajpootana and Bundelkund , lying to the south of the Gangetic plain and drained by its river ; 4th , Central India , which term I have , for the present purpose , restricted to that portion of the flanks of the Satpoora range which is drained by the upper waters of the Wynegunga and the Nerbudda ; 5th , Western Bengal and Orissa\mdash ; this consists of two distinct parts , viz. the plateau west of the Gangetic delta and the alluvial plain of the Orissa coast ; 7th , the Gangetic delta ; 8th , the Assam valley ; and 9th , the coast of Arakan as far south as Akyab .
Some further details of each tract , and the positions of the several stations , thewind-registers of which have furnished the materials of the discussion , will be iven in the text .
PABT I.\mdash ; DESCRIPTION OF THE WINDS .
The Punjab.\mdash ; For illustrating the winds of this region , I have the four stations Rawul Pindee , Lahore , Mooltan , and Dera Ishmail Khan .
The first is situated in the north-east corner of the plateau north of the Salt range , and near the foot of the Hazarah hills , at an elevation of 1700 feet .
An open plain extends to the south and west , but on the north and east it abuts against the hills of Hazarah and the subHimalaya ; the latter not very lofty .
The second ( Lahore ) is on the lower plain of the Punjab , about 160 miles south-east of Rawul Pindee and 240 miles west-north-west of Roorkee , at about 700 feet above the sea .
The outer range of the sub-Himalaya lies miles off to the north-east , and running from north-west to south.east .
The third ( Mooltan ) is likewise on the lower plain , near the Jhelum river , 190 miles south-west of Lahore , and is about 400 feet above sea-level ; and the last ( Dera Ishmail Khan ) is .situated on the main stream of the Indus , 120 miles north by west of Mooltan , and 200 west of Lahore .
The Sulaiman range , which lies to the west of the Indus , Inming parallel with the river , is about 50 miles distant from Dera Ishmail Khan ; but neally opposite to the station the valley of the Gomal debouches from the uplands MR. H. F. BLANFORD ON THB WINDS OF NORTHEBN INDIA .
By to October winds from between north-east and south-east contribute from 70 to 80 cent. of the observations .
annual change is rather one of oscillation than ation .
From February to August there appears to be a gradual veering of the mean direction from north by west , through north , north-east , and east to east-south-east ; and the change from the summer to the winter monsoon is retrograde , and consists in a gradual strengthening of the northerly current till the latter attains its extreme direction from north by west in January .
At Mooltan the wind-system is again different .
Heal south-west is the predominant quarter , to the extent of 29 per cent. on the average of the year ; north-west stands next in importance , and due east and west winds amount to only 2 and 3 cent. l.espectively .
It is possible that the low proportion of west winds may be due to some local obstacle , influencing the currents that act on the wind-vane and diverting them either to north or south of their primitive direction .
But even if we admit that a por- tion of the north-west and south-west winds are possibly diverted west winds , the fact remains , that at this station winds from the southerly quarters are equally numerous with those from northeln directions , which is not the case at any other of the Punjab stations here noticed .
The predominance of westerly over easterly winds , on the other hand , is a condition which also obtains at Rawul Pindee and Lahore , though not at Dela Ishmail Khan .
With respect to the annual change of mean direction , the Table shows considerable irregularities , which may be due in part to the cause above suggested , and in part to the inequality of the periods from which the data for the several months have been obtained .
In January the resultant appears to be decidedly north-northwest ; in February and March less decidedly north by east and north by west ; and the wind then appears to back through north-west and west to south-west by south , which is its prevailing mean direction during the summer monsoon , and is most decided in September .
In the latter months of the year the direction of the change seems to be reversed , and the winds veer normally and somewhat abruptly ough west to north and north by east , which is the mean direction in December .
The wind-system of Lahore resembles to a certain extent that of Rawul Pindee , except that , owing to the more exposed position of the station , the prevalent currents are less exclusively east and west .
The most frequent wind is from north-west ( 25 per cent and north-east is second in importance ( 18 per cent South winds are rare , and do not exceed 2 per cent. on the average of the year ; and those from the three southerly points are only 22 per cent. against 52 from the opposite directions .
As at Rawul Pindee and Mooltan , westerly winds preponderate over easterly , but to a less extent , the proportions being 50 to 39 .
The prevalent mean direction from October to April is north-west and north-north-west ; but north-east winds on the one hand , and west winds on the other , form a not inconsiderable proportion of the whole .
From March onward , east and south-east winds become more frequent , and in July and August preponderate .
They are not , however , very steady , and north-east and south-west winds are nearly as common as those from south-east .
In September westerly winds regain MR. H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NOBTHERN INDIA .
569 the river ; the station is 550 feet above sea-level .
The third ( Benares ) , 320 miles er@tsouth-east from Agra and 150 miles from the foot of the Himalaya , is also situated S plateau ( or eastern extension of that of Malwa ) being only about 20 miles to the south near the southern edge of the plain , the bounding escarpment of the Bundelkund of the station .
Benares is situated on the north bank of the river , and 255 feet above the sea .
Lastly , Patna ( or more correctly the civil station of Bankipore ) , below the confluence of the Sone and Ganges , 180 miles east and a little north of Benares , stands in the midst of ' the great alluvial plain of Behar , at an elevation of 172 feet .
The wind-registers of the three first-named stations extend over a period of from six to seven , and comprise day observations only , as in the case of the Punjab stations .
That of Patna includes four yeals and eight months ' observations , of which 11 months give day observations only , and the remainder the 10 .
and 4 .
observations in addition .
The Patna observations are unfortunately vitiated to a considerable extent by the observer 's omission to record calms , except during the last twelve months of the period .
I have therefore , in computing the percentage Table , taken the proportion of calms in these twelve months as an average , and reduced the number of recorded winds in previous years in relative proportion .
The result , if not quite , is at least less erroneous than it would otherwise have been .
The continuous chain of the Himalaya , skirting the northern edge of the Gangetic plain , determines in a great measure the direction of its prevailing winds .
At Roorkee , where this influence is most directly felt , and where the .
hill-chains run almost due and south-east , the winds from these two quarters reatly exceed those from all other directions , and are of nearly equal frequency , amounting together to 38 per cent. of the observations ; of the remainder , not less than per cent. are calms .
At Agra the influence of the Himalayan range is less marked , and the preailing winds are modified by other causes .
Next to calms ( 25 per cent west winds are most numerous per cent and north-west and east winds stand next in frequency , being respectively and per cent. North and north-east winds are about equally frequent ( between 7 and 8 per cent and those from the southerly semicircle are less frequent , amounting altogether to only 15 per cent. of the observations .
At this station that predominance of westerly winds which has already been remarked at the Punjab stations is very distinct .
At Benares the proportion of calms becomes reduced to 7 per cent. , and the mean movement of the air is nearly half as great again as at Roorkee .
The winds from the several quarters have nearly the same relative frequency as at Agra .
Thus west winds maintain their preponderance per cent and east and north-west winds stand next iu order .
South and south-east winds are of rare occurrence ; but there is a slight relative increase of south-west winds , which here form per cent. of the observations .
At Patna the proportion of calms to winds , as given in the Table , greatly exceeds that at any other station ; but the great excess is in part due to the inclusion of nigh observations .
At both Patna and Roorkee calms are twice as frequent at night as in a : MR. H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
571 Benares and the higher stations westerly winds maintain their preeminence till the latter part of June or the beginning of July .
In the North-western Provinces easterly winds attain their maximum in July , the first month in which , as a rule , the rains become general .
North-east winds are at their annual maximum in May at Patna , between May and June at Benares , and at Agra in June and July .
Thus , as the Tables show , along the southeln edge of the Gangetic plain north-east winds are more than twice as frequent in the so-called south-west monsoon as at the opposite season , when the north-east monsoon prevails at sea .
At Roorkee , from July onwards , south-east winds gradually give place to north-west , up to the end of the lains in the beginning of October ; but at Agra , Benares , and Patna the month of August is marked by a temporary check of the easterly winds and an incursion of winds from another quarter .
This is between south-east and south-west at Agra , west at Benales , and south and south-west at Patna .
The latter decline in September , easterly winds resuming their sway .
This feature is not peculiar to these stations , but is equally well marked in Orissa , and is perceptible even in Lower Bengal .
It appears to be due to an incursion of the monsoon current from the Arabian Sea .
At stations on the southern border of the plain , the winds veer normally from west or north-west round through north and east to their extreme south-easterly direction in the summer monsoon ; the opposite change is more abrupt .
At Roorkee any rotation that cau be detected is retrograde .
Plateau of Rajpootana and Bundelkund.\mdash ; Dr. MuRRAY THOMSON'S reports for the years 1863-69 give meteolological registers* of the stations Beawur , Ajmere , and Jhansi .
The two former stations are situated within a few miles of each other and under similar geographical conditions ; and since their l.egisters refer to diffel.ent years , I treat the whole as those of one station .
Ajmere and Beawur are situated at an elevation of between l500 and 1800 feet , near the western edge of the plateau , where it declines to the desert plains of Bikaneer .
A miles west and north-west from the stations are some low hills , spurs of the Aravulli range , and an .
spur of the same range to the southward forms the watershed between the Gangetic basin and the strcams draining towards the Gulf of Cambay .
On the average of the year , winds from the west and south-west greatly exceed those from any other quarters , and together amount to 52 per cent. of the observations ; of the remainder , 10 per cent. are calms .
Winds from other quarters are about equally frequent , with the exception of north-east winds ( 8 per cent which are slightly in excess of others ( 5 to 6 per cent Calms are most prevalent in the winter months ( October to February ) , during which they contribute from 15 to 20 per cent. of the rvations ; and they are least so in May , when they amount to only 2 per cent. North , north.east , and east winds are at their maximum in the winter season , and December and January are the only months in which easterly components preponderate * Consisting of day observations only .
The winds are recorded at 10 .
and 4 .
IT .
F. BLANFORD ON Tlffl WINDS OF NORTHEBN INDIA .
573 India.\mdash ; Dr. TOWNSHEND'S Reports , published in the 'Central Provinces e$te ' and in the Sanitary Commissioner 's Reports for those provinces , give the anemometric .
results of Jubbulpore and Nagpore for the three years 1869-71 , together with those of other stations for shorter periods .
I select these two as the most com- plete and trustworthy .
Jubbulpore is situated on the north , Nagpore to the south , of the belt of hills which stretches across Central India , and is now generally known as the Satpoora range .
At its northern foot this range or series of ranges dips to the alluvial valley of the Nerbudda , lying between two escarpments , and allowing an uninterrupted passage to the prevalent westerly winds .
Jubbulpore is situated at the upper end of this valley , 1350 feet above the sea , not far from the low watershed that separates the drainage of the Nerbudda and the Ganges .
North of the station the escarpment that borders the valley on the north retreats , and a gently ascending plain ( over which is carried the railway to Allahabad ) forms a break in the tableland , and affords a channel to northelly winds .
Nagpore lies 150 miles south-south-west of Jubbulpore , on the plain that extends along the southern foot of the Satpooras , in a kind of bay between two prominent offshoots of the hill-country , which is drained by the Wynegunga and its tributaries .
The station is about 1000 feet above the sea .
At both stations westerly winds preponderate on the whole , the dominant direction being west at Jubbulpore , north-west at Nagpore .
East and south-east are the directions of least frequency at the former , and south-east and south at the latter station .
Thus the Wind veers on an average four points between Jubbulpore and Nagpore .
Calms are not very frequent at either station .
At Jubbulpore the mean velocity of the win up to Mayis rather below that at Patna , but during the rains it is much greater .
At Nagpore it is greater than at Jubbulpore in all months of the year .
The velocity is highest in June , lowest in November or December .
At Jubbulpore north and north-east winds blow pretty steadily in November and December , but south and south-east winds are not infrequent , being about half as numerous as the former .
These are probably in great part local mountain winds .
In January westerly elements begin to preponderate over easterly , and southerly to gain on northerly winds .
South winds attain their maximum frequency in March , in which month winds from between south and west amount to 54 per cent. of the observations , while those from the opposite quadrant have diminished to 28 per cent. In rd May west and north-west winds gain the ascendant ; but on the setting in of the dins the wind backs towards south-west and blows very steadily during the three onths June to August a mean direction about a half a point south of west .
In aptember the monsoon slackens ; north and north-west winds begin to prepondelate , towards north and north.east ; and in November the north-east monsoon is reestablished .
R. H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN IND .
IA .
utaCk and False Point are both situated to the south of this range , on the alluvial ffin of Orissa .
The former , 80 feet above the sea , lies close to the low hills from #ich the Mahanuddy debouches on its delta .
The latter is one of the more prominent points of the same delta , 50 miles east from Cuttack , and , jutting beyond the general outline of the coast , is fully exposed to the winds that at different seasons of the year sweep up and down the Bay of Bengal .
At all these stations wind observations have been recorded night and day , at intervals of six hours .
The Tables are drawn up from the registers of three years ; but it is to be regretted that , iu the case of Hazareebagh and Cuttack , more especially the latter , they are vitiated by the omission of calms .
I infer from the more recent registers that at Cuttack in the cold-weather months the atmosphere is as calm as in Behar .
At Hazareebagh , as in the Ganges valley , the prevailing winds are from north-west and west ; these amount together to 46 per cent. on the average of the year .
North- east is the quarter of least frequency ( 4 per cent and winds from north and east do not exceed 7 and 8 per cent. respectively .
During the cold-weather months wind blows pretty steadily from between west and north-west .
As the temperature increases on the approach of the hot weather , this current tends to back towards south-west and south ; and in June south and south-east winds preponderate , bringing the rains from the Bay of Bengal .
In July there is a further backing towards south-east and east ; but in August a sudden increase of west and south-west winds implies an incursion of the monsoon current from the Arabian Sea .
In September , however , the easterly backing is resumed , and east and south-east winds attain their annual maximum , amounting together to 45 per cent. of the observations .
In October winds from the opposite quarters regain the ascendant , and the winter monsoon sets in from north-west by west .
It is to be observed that the annual partial rotation of the winds is here chiefly retrograde , viz. from north-west through south-west and south to south-east , and that when a semirevolution has been completed , and the rainy monsoon has attained its extreme easting in September , it is followed and supplanted by land-winds setting in from the opposite quarter of the compass .
We shall presently see that the winds of the Gangetic delta follow a similar course .
The incursion of the south-west current in August has been already noticed in the case of Agra , Benares , and Patna .
It is much more decided at Hazareebagh , and equally so , but more prolonged and regular , at Cuttack and FaIse Point .
The mean wind at Hazareebagh is more than twice as great as at Benares , and nearly twice as great as at Patna .
At the of its maximum in May and June it is twice as great as when at its minimum in November December .
In point of steadiness , however , the periods of maximum and minimum re reversed .
The north-west winds of November and December , if gentle , blow very steadily , and the resultants show an excess of 62 per cent. In May , on the other hand , there is an excess of 17 per cent. only in the direction of the resultant .
At Cuttack and False Point we meet with a wind-system very different in its more north-east and east ; but at Cuttack .
the veering proceeds further , and sea-winds from east and south-east predominate in this month .
In February south-west winds gain the ascendant at False Point , and south winds at Cuttack , a difference of about four points between the two stations being maintained throughout the hot weather and rainy months .
With the increase of temperature in the interior , south winds at Cuttack and south-west winds at False Point increase in steadiness , backing through one or two points up to May .
In June , with the setting in of the rains in Bengal , the veering again becomes normal , .
the westing increases , and this tendency is maintained till the month of August .
In September the south-west monsoon slackens , and the wind once more backs rapidly through south-east and east to north-east in the month of October .
At False Point , as at most coast-stations , calms are of rare occurrence .
In October , the month of their greatest frequency , they amount to only 11 per cent. of the obser- vations , while in May none are recorded .
They are somewhat more frequent in the cold weather than the rains , and least so in the hot-weather months .
This appears to be a universal rule in Northern India .
At Cuttack , to judge from one year 's register , they are common in the cold weather , and in accordance therewith the mean velocity of the wind is low .
The summarized register for a part of the two years 1871-72 will serve to correct the deficiencies of those of the longer period .
Gangetic Delta.\mdash ; The delta of the Ganges may be regarded as the northern end of the great wedge-shaped depression occupied by the Bay of .
This arm of the ocean affords an unobstructed channel to the interchanging air-currents between the equatorial seas and the plains of Upper India .
The delta lies , so to speak , in the neck of the funnel formed by the converging coasts of the two peninsulas\mdash ; that on the east being bordered by a continuous mountain-range , the Arakan Yoma , not less than 4000 or 5000 feet in height ; that on the west bordered also by hills , more broken indeed , and of much less mean elevation , but still opposing a certain barrier to the free passage of the winds to and from the interior of the peninsula .
At the upper end of the Bay these hill-tracts advance to within 200 miles of each other , enclosing between them the united deltas of the Ganges and Brahmapootra ; and further inland the advanced plateau of the Garo hills constricts the plain to a width of 160 miles , allowing free access to the plains of the Upper Provinces , but almost entirely obstructing the entrance of the narrow valley of Assam .
( Dacca ) lies 120 miles to the eastward of the last-named station , about equidistant from the sea and the eastern hill of Tipperah .
Berhampore , 160 miles from the coast , is 64 feet above sea-level , the other stations at various less altitudes .
Saugor Point , at the entrance of the Hooghly estuary , is a mere marsh , protected by embank- ments from submergence at high water .
As a consequence of the physica !
configuration of the , nearly the whole of the lower stratum of air that slveeps over the delta is in transitu between the sea and the Gangetic plains to the westward .
The Assam valley , owing to its narrowness and the abruptness of its junction with the broader Ganges valley , affords but an obstructed and tortuous passage to this stratum , and it is chiefly an upper current that , passing over the low hills of Tipperah and the Khasi and Jynteah hills to the north of these , makes its way to or from Upper Assam as the monsoon wind .
The wind Table for Calcutta has been drawn up from the hourly observations of ten years , and , notwithstanding the roughness of the observations , represents the windsystem probably with as much accuracy as is attainable in the absence of self-registering instruments .
The velocities are obtained from four years ' observations .
For other stations , three years ' registers of observations recorded at six-hour intervals have been used .
In two cases , viz. Berhampore and Saugor Island , the legistration of calms has been neglected during the greater part of the period : the Saugor-Island Table is probably scarcely affected by this omission ; but such is not the case at Berhampore , and I give therefore the register of one yeal .
in addition in which calms have been recorded .
At Saugor Island south and south-west winds predominate greatly over those from any other quarter , amounting together to 52 per cent. on the average of the year .
North-west and west winds and their opposites are least common , amounting to from 5 to 8 per cent. respectively .
At Calcutta south winds form 31 per cent. of the annual average , and there is a slight but decided preponderance of westerly over easterly components .
At Berhampore the case is very different .
The excess of south winds over those from any other quarter is but small ; and there is a difference of only 5 per cent. between them and south-west winds , which are here the least frequent .
At Dacca , again , south winds preponderate , and south-east winds stand next in order , while easterly components slightly exceed the westerly .
At all these stations the annual rotation of the wind is incompletely rade , and such as has already been described at Hazareebagh .
The winter monsoon or land-wind aets in in October and becomes well established in November , with a mean direction which is nearly north at Dacca and Saugor Island , north-north-west at Calcutta , and -west by north at Berhampore .
At Saugor Island it blows pretty steadily during the three months November to January from a direction a few degrees east of north , and at Berhampore it is almost equally steady ; but at Calcutta and Dacca it backs , feet lower , evated , with txceptionlIR HLANFORD OORTHEBN I of , on the south-east and south , which rises to about 5000 feet .
Between the western extremity of this range and the Khasi hills is left a comparatively free passage , at a lower level , for the monsoon winds blowing to or from the upper part of Assam .
On the north the Bhotan Himalaya runs parallel with the valley up to the gorge by which the great Dihong river breaks through the mountains , and affords an open passage to the monsoons to penetrate to the legion north of the Himalaya .
Seebsaugor lies to the south and a little to the west of this break in the mountainchain , full in the course of the currents , but shelteled somewhat by its depressed position on the alluvial plain between the two hill-ranges .
Goalpara , on the other hand , is situated at the lower end of the valley , due north of the hills , and completely shielded on the north by the Bhotan Himalaya .
the Tables for both these stations are drawn up from the observations of three years ( recorded four times daily ) .
The Seebsaugor observations are evidently somewhat rough ; but there seems no reason to doubt their general trustworthiness , except in so far as they may be vitiated by the usual omission of calms .
Both Tables show a preponderance of easterly winds , as decided as is that of westerly winds in the peninsula of India .
At Goalpara this excess of easterly winds holds good in every month of the year , and the only change in the mean direction of the wind is an oscillation through about 7 points of the compass , from east by north in March to south-south-east in July , and back again during the lemainder of the year .
North-east winds are most frequent in the winter months , and attain their maximum in March .
West winds are also at .
maximum in the same months , in which respect Goalpala resembles Berhampore .
In May east winds attain their annual maximum , amounting to 59 per cent. of the observations ; but in the following months , during the prevalence of the south-west monsoon , winds from south , south.west , and west are frequent .
In respect of mean velocity , thel.e are two epochs of maximum and two of minimum annually .
The formel occur in April and September , the latter in July and December ; of these , the April maximum is the absolute maximum of the year , and the December minimum is generally below that of July .
At Seebsaugor , winds from the north and north-east amount together to 54 per cent. on the average of the yeal .
, while those from south and south-wcst do not exceed 29 per cent. The air-current from the direction of the great valley ( possibly derived from Tibet ) preponderates considerably over that from the sea .
Nevcrtheless the climate of Seebsaugor , though cool , is not so dry as this fact might lead us to anticipate ; the lainfall is not much less than at Goalpara , and occurs at all seasons of the year : this fact leads me to doubt whether in reality any considerable body of air is drawn from the trans-Himalayan region .
The winter monsoon from north and northeast sets in in October and blows with great steadiness through Noyember and Decem- ber .
In January westerly winds begin to be felt , and gradually increase during the following months , chiefly from south-west , until in June they predominate over those ME .
H. F. BLANFORD ON TIIE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
581 at its minimum in October or November .
At the former period it is less than at Dacc4 at the latter nearly three times .
as great .
At these two stations the periods of I maximum and minimum are approximately the same , and about a month later than at most stations to the westward .
Calms are not very common at any time of the year , and occur chiefly at the close of the south-west monsoon .
The wind-system of Akyab differs from that of Chittagong in much the same way as this latter differs from that of Dacca , .
the corresponding phases of the wind 's rotation occur about six weeks or two months later at the more southerly station ; and while the average direction of the summer monsoon is less easterly , that of the winter monsoon is less westerly .
Thus at Akyab northerly elements preponderate over southerly in April , and southerly over northerly in October , the reverse of the case at Chittagong ; in other words , both monsoons continue to be felt on the coast of Akyab one or two months after the change has occurred at Chittagong .
This accords completely with the results of Captain MAURY'S discussion of ship observations in the Bay of , and is also what might be anticipated from the character of the barometric changes sently to be discussed The result is of high importance to the theory of the formation of cyclonic storms , respecting which I shall say a few words in the sequel .
One other point of intelest to be noticed in the Akyab wind Table is the interruption of the otherwise regular retrograde movement of the winds by a sudden in A.ugust through one point of the compass , followed by a return to eastward in September .
This reminds us of the similar phenomenon already noticed in the wind Tables of the North.western Provinces and Bengal .
Summary.\mdash ; From the foregoing discussion of wind-registers it appears that the windsystem of Northern India is very different from that of the adjacent seas .
Instead of two monsoons from north-east and south-west prevailing alternately during about equal periods of the year , we find a great diversity of prevalent wind-currents , depending on the directions of the mountain-ranges and great valley plain ; and , with lespect to period , to be classified under three rather than two distinct seasons\mdash ; excepting , indeed , in Upper Assam , where the normal monsoons prevail .
Thus in the cold-weather months ( November to January ) the winds are light or completely calm , and the air flows in a gentle current from the plains of Upper India and the Punjab down the valleys of the Indus and the Ganges , or across the hilly watershed of Central India to join the northeast or east monsoon of peninsula proper .
This appears to have a distinct source in the hill-region of Chota Nagpore and the country south of the Satpooras .
It is possible that in Upper Assam and in the Upper Punjab , at the two extremities of the Himalaya , some portion of the cool air from the transmontane region may find egress to the southward ; but if so , the amount must be small , and the mountain-barrier of the Himalaya , which throughout the interval of 1500 miles extends unbroken along the northern margin of our area , completely secludes India from the influence of more * Physical of the Sea , 12th edition , p. 368 .
See post , Part II .
, pp. 603 , 604 . .
3 .
H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
583 the Ganges , sea-winds begin to prevail , however , as early as February\mdash ; first ffie coast-line and in the immediate neighbourhood of the hills , and afterwards inland .
Thus they gradually encloach upon and eventually displace the landwinds*near the ground surface , so that in April and May the opposing currents meet obliquely in the hilly region that lies to the west of the delta and of the plains of Orissa .
1 Here at least is their average line of meeting ; in March the winds of the delta are nearly as much from west as south , while in May westerly elements preponderate but slightly over easterly at Hazareebagh and even at Benares .
The gradual retrograde rotation exhibited by the wind-resultants of the Lower Bengal stations in the spring months is due to the increasing displacement of north-west or land-winds by those from the sea ; and the latter advance further and further inland , coalescing with the southerly and easterly currents of the Himalayan slopes , and in Behar curving round and blowing as north-easterly winds at Patna and Benares .
In Eastern Bengal in like manner they blow up to the Garo and Khasi hills , where they meet the north-east curlent from Upper Assam ; while in Lower Assam a portion of the lattel turns with the valley and , blowing steadily from the eastward , coalesces with the south-easterly current from the delta .
At sea , as Captain MAURY has shown , and as further appears from the registers of Chittagong and Akyab , southerly winds gain possession of the Bay by a gradual extension southwards from the coast-line of the delta .
They back down , as Captain MAURY expresses it , about5o or of latitude on an average between February and March , but less rapidly on the , rakan coast on that of India .
Thus at Madras , in latitude , southerly winds predominate in March ; whereas at Akyab , in titude , they do not gain the upper hand until the month of May .
A section of the atmosphere from the Khasi hills to the Bay near the Arakan shore in the latitude of Akyab would probably , in the month of March , present a system of currents somewhat resembling the accompanying diagram ( fig. 1 ) .
In Western India , in Sind , and the desert of Bikaneer southerly winds prevail in like manner in the spring months , and penetrate inland as far as Mooltan and Ajmere .
At the latter station , situated at nearly 2000 feet above the sea , they predominate as early as February , while at the former they do not exceed northerly winds until May .
At Agra they are felt in April , but do not preponderate .
In June the south-west monsoon sets in on both coasts of the peninsula .
The current from the Arabian Sea , sweeping across the Sahyadree mountains and up the valleys of * Iu this place and throughout this paper I use the terms land-winds\ldquo ; and ' sea-winds\ldquo ; to designate originate respectively in the interior or at sea , without to their periodicity , whether it be annual or diurnal .
the Taptee and Nerbudda , blows as a west or west-south-west current over India up to the very confines of the Gangetic plains , and across the peninsula south # the Satpooras up to the coasts of Orissa .
That from the Bay of Bengal pours into funnel-shaped opening occupied by the delta , and then , turning westward , passes up Ganges valley towards the Punjab ; while upper currents sweep over the Hazareebal plateau in the same direction , and across the hills of Eastern Bengal towards the valh of Assam and the river-gorges that afford them an entrance to Tibet .
It is not impr bable that a portion of the current that traverses the Bundelkund plateau from Arabian Sea may , on reaching the Gangetic plain , curve round towards the north .
as an upper current , coalescing with that from the Bay of Bengal .
But no such passq can be detected in the registers of the surface-winds .
deed along the southern ) of the plain the winds are on the whole rather from north-east , blowing towards Malwa and Bundelkund plateau during the height of the monsoon .
In any case Punjab is the limit of these winds .
On reaching the plain of the five rivers they perfor a kind of cyclonic circulation around it ; and in Affghanistan , although easterly win are occasionally felt at this season , the dominant current is from the westward .
Up to the close of the south-west monsoon in October , the Coromandel coast an the lains of the Carnatic have received but little rain , and remain at a higher rature than any other part of the peninsula .
Unsteady north-east winds , alternatio with calms and variable winds from other quarters , then set in on the Orissa coast an over the north-west part of the Bay ; while the southerly current recurves from soutl east and blows towards this heated region , bringing the late autumn rains , which son writers have erroneously attributed to the north-east monsoon* .
At the same time th winds of Lower Bengal are conflicting and variable , and calms ( alternating are at their maximum frequency .
But in the North-western Provinoes , where th lains cease somewhat earlier and the temperature falls more rapidly , there is , durio the greater part of October , a decided movement of the air from the west and nortl west .
In like manner in the Central Provinces light land-winds have set in from and north-east , which latter ( or east to the south of the Satpooras ) is there the teristic direction of the winter monsoon .
It is not until the end of this montl or in November , that winds blow over the delta , connecting the north we : current of Upper India with the north-east winds of the northern part of the Bay in continuous stream , and that it can therefore be said with strictness that the north .
monsoon has set in .
The manner in which the change of monsoons takes place in the Bay of Bengal been already described by Captain MAURY in the following terms:\mdash ; " " In October th north-east trades lead off the attack , and the two combatants have force enough the parallel of N. to blow during this month nine days each .
The conflict , of being back to back , is now face to .
instead of blowing away from the media *This error was distinctly pointed out by Professor : in his Treatise , 'Ueber die yertheilung des auf der Oberflache der Erde , ' ) in BLANFORD OINDS O NORTHERN fhigh , 585 ( in March ) , they now blow towards it ; instead of being aplace of high , the medial line is now a place of low barometer .
By November the north-east trade has pushed the place of equal contest as far down as the parallel of With some demur to certain expressions , which might be taken to imply that the winds are impelled towards their place of meeting against mutual resistance by a vis a tergo , the above represents in a general way the character of the north-east monsoon 's advance .
But , as .
in the case of the opposite change already described , this advance is more rapid on the Indian than the Burmese coast of the Bay .
At Akyab southerly winds still preponderate in October , while at False Point north and north-east winds are in able excess ; and even at Madras northerly winds quite as frequent as those from southerly quarters in that month .
Such being the general scheme of the wind-currents of Northern India , it remains now to trace out their relations to temperature , humidity , and atmospheric pressure at the different seasons of the year .
With this view I proceed to give a sketch ( imperfect indeed in many respects , but still not without value ) of the distribution and annual changes of these important elements of climate .
PART II.\mdash ; RELATIONS OF THE WINDS TO OTHER ELEMENTS OF CLIMAIE .
Temperature.\mdash ; The general distribution of temperature , which have deduced from the registers of the last few years* , agrees general]y with that represented on the Messrs. * I give the results in two Tables\mdash ; the first of which shows the mean temperature of each place in each month of the year , as deduced from the observations , the second the equivalents of these at sea-level .
The means have been obtained in various ways .
For the Lower Provinces and Assam , as well as for Roorkee and ( in part ) Benares , have taken the arithmetical means of observations recorded at 4 and 10 .
and .
In the case of Seebsaugor alone , sunrise observations are substituted for those at 4 .
At stations in the Central and North-western Provinces ( other than Roorkee and Benares ) , the mean of the minimum and 4 .
temperatures is taken as the mean of the day ; and in the case of the Punjab stations , I have applied to the means of the mean maxima and mimma a correction proportional to the mean diurnal range , derived from ] ?
, oorkee registers .
The sea-level values in Table III .
are obtained by adding to the figures in Table II .
for every 350 feet of elevation .
Owing to the shortness of the periods from which , in many cases , the mean temperatures of Tnbles If .
and III .
have been obtained , the diversity of the methods of reduction , and , above all , my uncertainty how far the oestruments employed in the Central Provinces , the North-western Provinces , and the Punjab can be accepted as accurate and comparable , I hesitate to base any conclusions on small differences of temperature , even when the registers of several stations yield concordant evidence of their reality .
For these reasons I am far from confldent that the peculiar loop which the isotherm of makes in the Gangetic plain in the January chart will be substantiated by more complete and trustworthy data .
Its existence rests on the evidence of Benares and Lucknow given in the Tables , with that of Bareilly , Goruckpore , and Fyzabad ( each for four years ) .
The temperatures of these latter stations are respectively , and , which , reduced to seavdues , are , and .
There are , however , independent grounds for regarding as probabl the distribution of temperature thus indicated .
There is an evident relation between the loop of abnormally low temperature and that of high pressure shown in the same chart ; and the fact already noticed , that southerly winds prevail on the southern slopes of the Himalaya throughout the cold-weather months , might lead us to .
H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
587 to the south in a festoon-shaped curve in the interval , so that Benares and neighMrirg stations in the Gangetic plain enjoy a lower temperature than any other part of Mia under the same latitude .
In the peninsula south of the Satpooras the isotherms appear to be more regular , but the data available for this region are as yet insufficient to show their course with any pretence to accuracy .
In February and March ( Plates XLIII .
and XLIV .
) a general rise of temperature is accompanied by important modifications in its relative distribution .
The isotherm of which in January ram across the peninsula south of the Satpoolas , is now ( in March ) pushed up to the Punjab , indicating a general average rise of .
The greatest rise is at Benares and Patna , the least at Bombay , and two thermal foci begin to make their appearance in the Central Provinces and the hilly country of Western Bengal .
The temperature-difference of Rawul Pindee ( the coldest station of the Punjab ) and Calcutta is ; that of Rawul Pindee and Nagpore In April ( Plate XLIV .
) the thermal focus of Central India is well developed .
The mean temperature of Nagpore in this month is above that of Bombay ( allowing for altitude ) , above that of Rawul Pindee , and above that of False Poin .
The region of greatest heat is indicated on the chart ( Plate XLIV .
) by the isotherm of which includes the stations of Nagpore and Hoshungabad .
The whole of Central India with Rajpootana , Bundelkund , and Behar , Western Bengal south of the Ganges , with Chota Nagpore and Orissa , have a mean temperature between and .
The Upper Punjab ( including Rawul Pindee ) and Upper Assam are the coolest parts of our region , having a temperature of to In May ( Plate ) the thermal focus moves up somewhat to the north-west , Ajmere and Jhamsi being now the hottest stations in the list , while the isotherm of embraces nearly the whole of the Malwa plateau together with the region lying around Nagpore .
But the rise of temperature in the Punjab is greater than in Rajpootana .
At Ajmere and Jhansi the mean May temperature is and higher than that of April ; but at Mooltan it is , at Lahore , and at Rawul Pindee , the most northerly station , nearly .
In Upper Assam there is a rise of or ; but Lower Assam remains cool , the May temperature of Goalpara being only 1o above that of April .
The mean temperature of the Assam valley in this month is about , that of the Punjab In June ( Plate ) the focus of heat has travelled up to the Punjab , the temperature of which has risen from to above that of May , while at Nagpore it has fallen in consequence of the cooling effect of the summer rains .
The rains do not set in on average till the middle of the month , so that the decrease of the June mean temperature from that of May is not more than about half the whole reduction produced by the monsoon rains .
To the north of the Satpooras and to the west of the Hazareebagh pkteau , where the rains do not set in till the end of June or the beginning of July , themean temperature of June is equal , or nearly so , to that of May ; while in the Punjab ( as above mentioned ) there is a rise of to , and in Upper Assam , where heavy rain from March or April , a rise of nearly DCCCLXXIV .
MR. H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
ffifflAte of Bengal , the latter the drier and more continental climate of Upper India .
ng , being situated on a plateau , is less favourable for the purpose , but may be adduced as an additional example of a Bengal station at a lower altitude ( 4792 feet ) , and can be compared with Goalpara on the north-west and Silchar ( 75 feet ) on the south.east .
Lastly , I shall give a comparison between Nynee Tal at feet and Roorkee , observing , however , that the situation of the former station , on the banks of a mountain lake in a hollow valley , is such as to impair its character as a representative station .
These data are given in the following Table:\mdash ; Table of comparative temperatures at four hill-stations and stations on the plains , showing the variations of the temperature decrement with altitude in each month . .
H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTIIERN INDIA .
of the present case ; but the climatal conditions of a European hill-tract are so li*ent ffom those of the Gangetic plain and the Himalayan boundary chains , that Mrnlity of the local empirical laws of the two regions is not to be expected .
M. HANN not suggested any physical cause for the difference he has observed in the tempeature decrements with south-west and north-east winds , and I may therefore be permitted to suggest one in the difference of their humidity ; since the continual upward diffusion and condensation of water-vapour must tend to equalise the temperatures of bhe lower and higher strata , and this tendency will be the greater the higher the humi- dity of the air\mdash ; that is , the nearer it is to saturation .
In the case of the Himalayan stations there appears to be a certain inverse latio between the relative humidity of the atmosphere and the difference of temperature at the upper and lower stations\mdash ; not , indeed , such as to explain the whole of the variation , but such as to indicate that the condensation of vapour exercises an important influence on the phenomenon .
This is shown in the accompanying diagrams ( figs. \amp ; 3 ) , which give the curves of mean humidity at two of the higher and two lower stations , together with those of the temttture differences between the pair of stations contrasted . .
H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
the low plateaux to the south of the Ganges , and in the higher parts of the Ganplains , the distribution of temperature follows laws very different to the above .
In thvir case a moderate elevation appears to determine an increase of the summer temperature and a decrease only in the winter season , or , in certain cases , in the rains\mdash ; consequently an increased annual range .
Whether the mean temperature of the year shows a diminution corresponding to the altitude above sea-level , cannot very well be ascertained in the case of stations on the G.angetic plain , because their distance from stations of reference at or near the sea-level is so great , that it is impossible to eliminate the effects of other geographical differences , such as the slope of the ground , proximity of hills or water , \amp ; c. ; and I have already remarked that many of the registers are not , in my opinion , strictly comparable for small differences .
But in the case of the somewhat more elevated plateaux , we have more trustworthy means of comparison in the stations of Hazareebagh and Berhampore , situated under nearly the same latitude , about equally distant from the sea , and affording observations with corrected thermometers , observed four times a day at equal intervals of six hours .
Moreover their registers extend over the same period of the four years 1868-71 .
Finally , their geographical entourage is such as to offer no striking contrasts , except that the effect of which is in question\mdash ; since Berhampore is on a comparatively dry part of the delta and at no great distance from its .
Hazareebagh is situated at 2014 and Berhampore at 65 feet above the sea-level .
The following Table gives the mean temperature of each station and their difference in each month:\mdash ; TABLE of comparative temperatures at stations on a plateau and in the plains , showing the temperature-difference in each month .
month , as compared with Roorkee , remains unexplained .
But it also appears that the solar heat is at all times ( on an average)less intense than on the plains , and that this difference is least in September and October .
It would pppear , then , that , on an average , less solar heat reaches the hill-surface at these stations , 7000 or 8000 feet above sea-level , than the surface of the plain immediately below the hills .
The figures are far from ounting for the observed variation of temperature-difference .
the rainy season ) contlasts strongly with the corresponding variation at sMoq The variation may , I think , be traced partly to the character of the winds , but to the local absorption and radiation of the solar heat .
In May there is at Berhampq as at all stations on the delta , a very large excess of south and east , that is to say winds , more or less deflected ; while at Hazareebagh there is still an excess of west a large proportion of north-west , that is hot land-winds .
In October the preponderan$ of sea- and land-winds respectively at the two stations is similar , but the land-winds at this season of the year the cooler of the two .
But a further and more cause tending to produce the observed variation is the difference of nocturnal and diurnal absorption of solar heat in those months .
difference is at its minimuI in May and its maximum in October in the former case , and vice versed in the The mean of three years ' observations of a RUrHERFORD'S minimum thermometer above the ends of the grass on forked sticks , and radiating its heat freely during night time ) is as follows:\mdash ; Hazareebagh .
Berhampore .
Diff. B.\mdash ; H. May . . . .
October . . .
On the other hand , the mean of three years ' observations of a maximum blackened bulb thermometer enclosed in a -tube and freely exposed to the sun , the observation having been recorded on all days , whether clear or overcast , is as follows:\mdash ; Hazareebagh .
Berhampore .
Diff. H. May October A similar excess of nocturnal radiation and decrease of insolation , but less in amount obtain comparable values , I have multiplied these by factors obtained empirically from the l.egisters of Benares and Roorkee ( see note to Table I have ted the data of several stations which it would have been desirable to add , since they give results so much above other stations similarly situated , as to leave me in little doubt of their untrustworthiness .
The Table of vapour elasticities is computed directly from those of the mean humidity and the mean temperature , except in the cases of Calcutta and Bombay , where the figures have been obtained from the psychrometer observations taken hourly and leduced for each observation .
With these two exceptions the values are therefore in all cases somewhat too Since , as is well known , Northern India with Eastern Bengal presents in different parts the extreme modifications of continental and maritime climate , it might be expected that the range of vapour-tensions shown by a comparison of the would be very great ; and such is , indeed , the case .
extreme amounts shown in the present Table are furnished by Mooltan and False Point\mdash ; the annual mean of the former being inch , while that of the latter is inch* .
But this , the geographical range , is in certain cases surpassed by the annual range at one and the same station .
Of this the stations in the Gangetic plain offer the most examples .
Thus at Patna the mean vapour-tension rises from in January to in July , at Benares from in December to in July , and at Roorkee from in December to in July , the ranges being therefore , and respectively .
On the other hand , Bombay and Akyab , the climates of which are more equable than that of any other station , show a range of and only .
The lowest vapour-tension occurs in January at most of the stations , coinciding with the minimum of temperature .
At one or two only it appears to be slightly lower in December .
Such is the case at Cuttack , False Point , and Saugor Island , where seawinds set in very early in the year ( see ante , Part I. pp. 576 , 578 ) , and at Benares .
Generally in the upper part of the Gangetic plain , in Central India , and the Punjab the means of December and January are almost equal .
In the Gangetic delta and Orissa , on the coast of Arakan , and in hastern Bengal and ower Assam .
the elasticity rises regularly and l.apidly up to the setting in of the rains , indicating a steady increase in the supply of vapour as well as a rising temperature .
But in the dry regions of the interior , where land-winds prevail throughout the spring months , the rise of vapour-tension is very slow , not much greater probably than would be produced by the actual rise of temperature on the local supply of vapour .
The elevation , when the summer monsoon begins to be felt in June or July , is then very sudden , and the fall at the close of the monsoon between September and November equally strongly marked .
The January mean at the former station is inch ; the May mcan at the latter inch .
Probably also in Upper Assam ; but I have no register for that region .
1 existing , are unfortunately not accessible and cannot be appealed to in verification ; but during a part of the time Nagpore and Jubbulpore show a higher humidity than Patna , ts and even than Benares .
At the hill.stations the rule is also modified , and at Darjeeling from June to September the humidity of the atmosphere exceeds that of any other station either on the coast or elsewhere .
I shall presently consider the effect of elevation on this element .
The coast-stations show some variations which evidently have reference to the prevailiae winds .
Thus in the earlier months of the year ( from January to May ) False has a higher degree of humidity than Akyab , though situated under nearly the same latitude ; and during the remainder of the year this relation is reversed .
A similar oelntion exists between False Point and Bombay , except that Bombay falls below False Point a month earlier ; and a similar tendency , though less marked , is observable in the a registers of Chittagong and Saugor Island .
Thus , then , it appears that the west coasts of both peminsulas have a lower degree of humidity than the east coast of India during the drier half of the year , while they range higher as soon as the south-west monsoon sets in .
At Saugor Island and Chittagong January is the driest month of the year , and August 3 the most humid , the annual range being 13 per cent. at the former station , and 18 per .
at the latter .
At Akyab the range is only 11 per cent. , and March is the driest and July the most humid month .
At False Point the humidity is lowest in November , a that is , during the height of the rains lower down on the Madras coast ; and from April to August the proportion of moisture scarcely varies , and is about 15 per cent. of satuakion higher than in November .
Proceeding inland , a distance of 50 or 60 miles suffices to produce a marked decrease of humidity , especially during the prevalence of the land-winds .
Thus in the month 11 Narch Calcutta stands 13 per cent. of saturation below Saugor Island , and Cuttack per cent. below False Point ; and in the 1Ilonth of February Dacca ranges 13 per 3 .
below Chittagong .
In Cachar , where the winds are chiefly from the south and the country around is either marsh or clothed with dense forest , the humidity of the remains high and equable throughout the year ; only in two months , viz. in March April , does it fall below that of Chittagong .
But in Behar and in the Northtern Provinces after March the ordinary rule holds good .
Thus in April Patna .
ranges 39 and Benares 43 per cent. of saturation below Saugor Island , while in May : and the spring minimum a month earlier .
Next , comparing Darjeeling with Goalpara , it appears that it is only in the last three months of the year that the humidity of the hilLstation ranges below that of Goalpara , and then only to the extent of from 4 to 1 per cent. of saturation .
In they are equal , and in all the other months Darjeeling is the higher .
This is especially the case in February , when there is a difference of 16 per cent. of saturation between the two stations .
Darjeeling exhibits in a very marked degree the subordinate winter maximum already described in the Upper Prorinces , but it falls later , the secondary minimum being in December and the maximum in February .
The cause is doubtless the same in both cases , Darjeeling , as we have seen ; being brought by its elevation within the influence of the anti-monsoon current .
At Shillong , however , no such phenomenon is to be observed , and the cause is again obvious .
The north-east current from Assam , flowing down the valley and across the Khasia plateau , must drive the compensating equatorial current into a higher region of the atmosphere , and the registers of the station show that in the cold-weather months preponderating winds at this station are from the north .
The Shillong registers show further that , as compared with Goalpara , the humidity of the station is low .
Except in February and December and from July to October , when it is equal to that of Goalpara ( in the last month somewhat higher ) , the mean humidity of the hill-station is from to 5 per cent. less than that of the Assam valley .
A similar relation is shown , but far more decidedly , by , which from October to May has a drier atmosphere , not only than Calcutta and Cuttack , but even than Patna , 120 miles further inland : from October to April its humidity ranges below that of Jubbulpore , although it is less than 700 feet higher .
I should not indeed venture to infer from this fact that in a vertical column of the atmosphere over the plains the relative humidity of the atmosphere would be found in the cold and early hot-weather months lower than near the land-surface , to any thing like the extent shown by the Hazareebagh registers .
The situation of this station on the highest part of a dry plateau , freely absorbing and emitting the solar heat , while it affords little evaporation , preserits conditions very different .
from those of the free atmosphere ; and probably by l.aising the temperature raises the tension of saturation , while it raises that of the vapour actually in the air only in about the same ratio as that of dry air .
But I have already noticed this subject in a previous part of this paper .
In a paper published in 1870 in the 39th volume of the Journal of the Asiatic Society ngal , I gave Tables of the average monthly rainfall at 47 stations in Bengal , Behar , Assam , and on the Arakan coast .
In Table .
( at end ) these have been corrected and supplemented by the registers of subsequent years and data drawn from other rooroes ; and I have added similar Tables for 41 stations in the Central Provinces , the from these data .
It shows the distribution of the total annual rainfall bylines of * precipitation , which represent increments or decrements of 10 inches .
The chart of course pretend to accuracy in detail , since rainfall , more than any other element , is subject to local variation , being affected by local geographical conditid such as the proximity of small hills , \amp ; c. ; but the lines show with tolerable faithfuhI the broader features of its distribution .
I have indicated by inscriptions on the chart the tracts in which rain is received$ each of the three principal seasons .
Of these latter , the summer and early autumn rd that of the rainy season emphatically so called , is by far the most copious and extensiw so that , beyond a slight recession towards the coast of the ishyetic lines of the Punjd Upper Provinces , and Assam by the omission of the winter rains , and of those of Orisl , and the eastern districts , enerally by that of the spring or hot-weather rain the map would require little modification to represent the rainfall.of the first-namd period only .
The cold-weather rains are received most regularly and in the largest quantity in North-western Provinces and the Punjab , in Upper Assam and Cachar .
In Behar an the Gangetic delta they are less regular and lighter .
They usually begin in Decembl and continue till March i-u the North-western Provinces , tilJ April in the Punjab .
Bengal , as we have seen , sea-winds begin to be felt in February and March , and thel is no period of demarcation between winter and spring lains .
The same is the case Assam and Cachar .
The mean lainfall of eight stations in the Gangetic plain ffi Goluckpole and Benares upwards , and of eight stations in the Punjab from to April , is as follows:\mdash ; These rains , therefore , reach their maximum a month later in the Punjab than in North-western Provinces .
rrhis does not coincide with the period of greatest cold , even with the winter maximum of humidity on the plains ; but it appears to coimcfdl rather with the latter at an elevation of 6000 or 7000 feet , to judge from the regir of the single station Chuckrata .
In any case it is determined by some cause other lad mere cold , and this I take to be the humidity of the anti-monsoon current .
In cases the winter rains are followed by a break of about two months , during scanty and uncertain rainfall only is received from occasional thunder-storms : situated near the northern hill-range receive more rain than those lying towards } .
H. F. FORD ON THB WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
601 of Rajpootana , in the cold weather as at other seasons ; and on the lower parts of the hills ( Dehra , Kangra ) they are very copious .
On the south of the Gangetic they are felt at Ajmere , Jhansi , and in the Central Provinces , but not there westward .
Even at Mahableshwar the mean fall from December to does not amount to half an inch , and at Bombay from December to April to less than a quarter of an inch on the mean of twenty-three years .
The spring or hot-weather rains prevail over all that region over which sea-winds set in from the Bay ofBengal at am early period of the year .
In Assam and Easteln showers are pretty fi.equent in March or even February , and in April the rainfall is pretty general and copious .
In Cachar and Sylhet in this latter month it amounts to 12 or 14 inches , and at Seebsaugor and Nazeerah , in Upper Assam , it is between 9 and 10 inches on an .
Lower down the Assam valley it is hter , viz. 6 or 7 inches between Tezpore and Gowhatty , and at Goalpara but little more than 5 inches .
Similarly on the eastern margin of the Gangetic delta it is less than in Cachar and Sylhet , viz. inches at Comillah ( Tipperah ) , 4 inches at Noakhally , and 5 at Chittagong .
In the western part of the delta it amounts to between 2 and 3 inches ( except on the coastline , where it is heavier ) .
These rains are felt as occasional thunder-storms , known as nortkwesters , as far inland as Nagpore ; and also in Behar and in vestern half of the delta much is received in this form .
The spring rains have no very definite termination , even in Western Bengal ; but generally a fortnight or three weeks of hot dry weather precedes the in of the monsoon rains .
The break of the monsoon is further marked by a change in the direction of the wind , and seems therefore to be a phenomenon of a distinct character\mdash ; something more than a mere increase in the force and regularity of the sea-winds which bnng the spring rains above described .
In Lower Bengal , Orissa , and the Central Pro- vinces the change consists in a shifting of the wind to the westward ; in the etic plains to the setting in of east or south-east winds .
In Assam and Cachal .
, however , no change of the kind takes place ; from February or March the rainfall increases rapidly and steadily up to June , and then decreases gradually to the end of the south-west monsoon .
But on the Arakan coast , and on the Sikkim Himalaya , the commencement of the rains is more definite , and occurs three weeks or a month earlier than on the western part of the delta .
In Lower Bengal and Orissa the rains begin on an average in the first or second week in June , and the fall averages from 9 to 15 inches in that month : in the neighbourhood of the hills , both on the east and north , it is much heavier .
They l.each the Northwestern Provinces later , and at Agra and Delhi the mean fall in this month does not exceed 1 or 2 inches .
In Bombay they set in about the same time as in the Gangetic , and in the Central Provinces a week or so later ; but in Rajpootana there is little till the following month .
In the Punjab the rains are much lighter than elsewhere ( except in Sind and the Bikaneer desert , which latter is rainless , or nearly so ) .
They MR. .
F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
$rytrrtworthy determinations of level* .
The redu readings of the Jhansi legisters , given , must be regarded as somewhat doubtful from the same cause .
There remain those of stations on the Gangetic plain , in Central India , in , and on the coasts of the Bay ; and for these I have data for periods of from three to five years .
These are given in Tables and VIII .
, the former being the mean of the observed pressures reduced to FAHR. , the latter the sea-level values corresponding thereto .
For the majority of the stations the mean pressure is obtained by taking the alith- metical mean of ations recorded daily at intervals of six hours , viz. at 4 and 10 .
and P.lf .
The exceptions are Port Blair , Madras , Nagpore , Jubbulpore , and Hoshungabad , for which I have taken the means of the 10 .
and 4 .
observations , the corresponding night observations being Excepting Madras , all the means are corrected to those of the Calcutta standald barometer , which instrument reads inch higher than the Kew standard .
In October , on the mean of the month , the pressure is nearly uniform in , and on both coasts of the Bay , in the Central Provinces , and the Gangetic valley .
Such inequalities as are shown in the Table and Chart are small and irregularly distributed .
Cuttack and False Point show the highest pressure , and Goalpara the lowest ; but their difference is less than inch , and generally over the whole area a mean pressure of or prevails .
In the North-western Provinces and Behar on one side , and on the Arakan coast on the other , the ranges slightly above that of Bengal , and the difference , though small , finds its expression in a slight tendency of the winds from both quarters .
In like manner the small difference between Cuttack and Nagpore causes eastcrly winds in the direction of the latter , and that between Cuttack and the lower part of the coast a small excess of north-east winds in the nol.thwest of the Bay .
In the following months the pressure rises over the whole area , but chiefly in the North-western Provinces , Chota Nagpore , and Orissa .
In December an axis of maximum pressure lies over Cuttack , Benares , Lucknow , and Roorkee ; and Agra , .Thansi , and Jubbulpore on one side , and Calcutta , Hazareebagh , and Patna on the other , all * This cannot be ascertained with sufficient approximation from the barometric .
Barometric differences in India are in genernl so small , that an inconsiderable error in the elevation may lead to very deceptive results when the are reduced to sea-level ; and , on the other hand , owing to tho persistence of these differcIlces of pressure , small though they be , the sea-level equivalcnts of the mcan annual pressure at stations one or two hundred miles apart differ sufficiently to vitiate any reasoning based on their assumed equality , and thus the fundamental assumption in the determination of heights by the barometer , viz. that when reduced to sea-level the compared prcssures of the two stations are equal , is invalid .
An example whioh strikingly illustrates this is given in the Bengal Neteorological Report for1869 .
Cuttack and Saugor Island are about 160 apart , the former 80 , th ' , latter 6 feet , above mean sea-level ; yet , to a persistently low pressure during many months of 1868 in the neighbourhood of Cuttack , a comparison of the mean leadings of the barometers of the two stations ( recorded four times daily during the whole year ) , indicates a difference of instead of 74 feet .
ante , Parb I. pp. 583 , 584 .
F. BLAN ON THE WINDS OF NORTHEBN INDIA .
ughout the rains , and has a marked influence on the winds .
The seat of lowest lies , however , in the direction of the Punjab and the desert of Bikaneer .
nally , in September and October the pressure increases more rapidly , and in such meamre as to.become nearly equalised , prior to the very different distribution which ushers in the cold season and its northerly winds .
It is evident , on inspection of the charts , that the distribution of pressure , to a certain extent , follows that of temperature near the ground surface , in an inverse ratio of intensity .
Thus ( omitting from considelation the Punjab and Upper Assam , for which barometric data are wanting ) Benares is in the cold weather the seat of highest pressure and also of lowest abnormal temperature* .
The ridge of high pressure of which this is the culminating point , and which extends in a curve from Roorkee to is in like manner evidently coincident with the southward bend of the isothermals shown in the cold-weather charts from Noyember to February , especially the first of these months ; and , on the other hand , the relatively low pressure of the delta coincides with the northward bend isothermals .
In these cases , then , there is an apparent coincidence of the isobaric with the isabnormal rather than the isothermal curves .
But in the hot-weather months , although a similar coincidence is still traceable , the infusion of water-vapour , which tends to equalise the temperature at higher levels with that near the groundL is evidently influential .
The trough of low pressure in April between Berhampore and Nagpore has its axis a temperature not much below when reduced to sea-level , and probably a vapour-tension higher than any part of the region to the north-west .
That of Nagpore , , is inch , and that of Jubbulpore only ; that of Hazareebagh does not indeed seem so high as that of Patna and Benares ; but it would appear from the Table at page 696 that the vapour-tension in the hotweather months diminishes very rapidly in the first few thousand feet of the atmosphere ; and although I think it probable that , owing to the high temperature of the ground surface of the plateau , the humidity of Hazareebagh is lower than that of the free atmosphere at the same elevation , there is no reason to believe that the vapour-tension is very much influenced by this cause , since there is no evaporating surface .
If the vapour-tension of Hazareebagh and Patna in April be compared with that of the same stations in January , the rise at Hazareebagh is seen to be proportionally gl.eater than at Patna ; and at all stations to the south and east of Hazareebagh the relative rise very greatly exceeds that of stations to the north and west .
I infer , therefore , that while the temperature of Hazareebagh near the ground level in April is but little lower than that of the delta ( nearly 2000 feet nearer the sea-level ) and of Patna ( which is more than 1700 feet lower ) , the admixture of watervapour , though less than over the former , is probably greater than at the same elevation over the latter and all places to the west and north-west ; that a higher temperature is thus imparted to the still more elevated strata of the atmosphere , the result being to render their mean density somewhat lower than over either .
The temperatures bnormal ireceding p. used in the givcn t .
H. F. BLANFORD THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
, from opposite quarters , and subject at the same time to cooling , by radia .
to an extent greater than is compensated by the heat set free from their arrested motion .
The dynamic pressure which would arise from the contraction and sinking of the cooled air may , I think , be sensible to the barometer .
In no other way am I able to account for the ridge of high pressure in the cold-weather months between Benares and Cuttack , where the temperature of the air , though lower than on either side , is several degrees higher than over the Gangetic plain , while the pressure is also higher .
I shall presently collate the evidence , already given in these pages , of the probable existence of those upper currents which I suppose to produce this phenomenon .
I have now to consider a very important part of the subject of pressure , viz. its changes at Shillong and the Himalayan stations Darjeeling and Simla , and the evidence they afford of .
the height to which the density of the atmosphere is affected by the heat of the spring and summer months and the accession of vapour .
Goalpara , situated about midway between Shillong and Darjeeling , affords a convenient standard of reference for these two stations ; and Roorkee , at the foot of the hills , 100 miles from Simla , may be compared with that station .
It is apparent , on a glance , that the annual range of the mean monthly pressures at all the hill-stations bears a much smaller ratio to that of stations in the plains , than do the total pressures at any season of the year ; in other words , that the change of mean pressure over the plains between January and July , and vice versed , is chiefly due to a change in the density of the atmosphere below the elevations of these stations .
The amount of this change in each month is Shown in the following Table .
In the cases of Darjeeling and Shillong the density is computed in two different ways :first , from the difference of pressures at the higher and lower stations ; and secondly , from the mean , temperature , and vapour-elasticity of the intervening atmospheric column* .
In both columns , dry air at FAHRENHEIT and inches pressure is taken as the standard * By the formulae , where are respectively the reduced barometric readings , the temperatures , and vapour-tensions at the lower and higher st.ations , and and their elevations in feet .
It may be objected to the above method of computing the mean density of a column of the atmosphere from the observations of pressure , temperature , and vapour-tension of two stations only , that it makes assumptions the distribution ( more especially ) of vapour and temperature , the validity of which is extremely doubtful , and which , indeed , can be only approximately true , when minor and temporary irregularities have been elimiated by taking for the values of , and the averages of a very large number of observations .
It may M\amp ; r be objected that the composition and condition of a very oblique column of the atmosphere ( one of .
100 in horizontal length ) cannot legitimately be assumed to represent those of a vertical column , and that .
H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
2 .
SHILLONG AND GoALPAllA .
3 .
SIMLA AND ROORKEE .
From these Tables we learn a fact of high importance , viz. that of the whole annual oscillation of the atmospheric pressure over the Gangetic plain , which may be taken as the measure of the forces that produce the alternating monsoons of India ( up to the equator , where the pressure is nearly invariable ) , nearly one half is due to an altel.ation of the density of that stratum of the atmosphere which lies between 400 and 5000 feet ( Goalpara and Shillong ) , more than two thirds to that of the stratum between 400 and 7000 feet ( Goalpara and eeling ) , and nearly two thirds to that between 800 and 7000 feet in the North-western Provinces ( Roorkee and Simla ) .
If for the actual annual barometric range at Goalpara and Roorkee we substitute their equivalents at sea-level , as given in Table VIII .
, viz. inch at Goalpara and at Roorkee , and increase the range of the values of by a corresponding amount , then the oscillation below Shillong becomes more than one half , and that below Darjeeling and Simla nearly seven tenths of the whole .
Further , it is to be noticed that the change of density in the North-western Provinces considerably exceeds that in Bengal , and affects the atmosphere to a greater height , MR. H. F. BLANFORD ON THB WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
thus , then , it would appear that the increased temperature of the column itself reduces density to an extent six times as great as is effected either by the decrease of pressure or by the large increase of its vapour constituent ; and if we may further assume the second of these elements results from the variation of the other two in the like proportion , and that the condition of the oblique column of air between Darjeeling and Goalpara fairly represents , for our present purpose , the general state of the atmosphere over Lower Bengal , we must conclude that of the reduction of the atmospheric pressure between anuary and on the plains of Lower Bengal , six sevenths are due to the increased temperature of the atmosphere , and only one seventh to the displacement of dry air by aqueous vapour .
I have not at present the data for a similar analysis of the density of the atmospheric column between Simla and Roorkee , or indeed any pair of stations in the drier climate of the North-western Provinces ; but it can hardly be doubted that such an analysis would show results more or less similar to the above ; and it may be expected that the lower mean pressure of the atmosphere from May to September would be found to depend on its higher mean temperature , up to a height of about 9000 or 10,000 feet .
That the mean temperature of the column below 7000 feet is actually higher in the neighbourhood of the hills of the North-western Provinces than that of the similar column below the Sikkim Himalaya , is shown by the following comparison of mean temperatures of the atmosphere below Chuckrata and Darjeeling , situated at nearly equal elevations above sea-level .
TABLE of the mean temperature of the air.columns below Darjeeling ( 6941 feet ) and Chuckrata ( 6884 feet ) .
Changes of temperature are then the cause of the variations in the weight of the atmosphere ; but the part played by vapour is not the !
important , though its action is chiefly indirect .
This action is evidently to equalise the temperature of the air-column , to carry heat from the lower and more highly heated strata to those at greater elevations , and also , as Dr. has shown , to arrest and absorb both solar terrestrial radiated heat in its passage through the atmosphere .
Indirectly , therefore , water-vapour greatly influences the pressure , though the change of density that MR. H. F. BLANFORD ON WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
fall of pressure in December and January is , I think , evidently due to the rapid condensation of the lower stratum of the atmosphere by the radiation of its heat , and , .while this cooled air flows away to the south as the source of the north-east monsoon , by the consequent setting in of a compensating anti-monsoon current of higher humidity and comparatively equable temperature at ( or , in the case of Darjeeling , chiefly above ) the level of the hill-stations .
From January to March , as well as from April to October , the pressure at Darjeeling and Simla must , on this assumption , be lower than at equal elevations to the southward in the course of this upper current .
The temporary rise in April is , I think , to be attributed to the expansion of the lower atmosphere , by which , for a time , a larger proportion of the atmosphere is lifted above the level of 7000 and 8000 feet .
This requires further investigation .
Certain effects of the Wmds.\mdash ; I have now discussed most of the more important facts relating to temperature , vapour-diffusion , and atmospheric pressure , to be gathered from the l.egisters of the past few years , in so far as they bear on the causes of the winds .
It remains to notice certain effects of the winds , especially on temperature and rainfall ; and I shall then briefly sum up the results of the whole discussion , and add a few remarks , in an Appendix , on the storms of the Bay of Bengal , to the explanation of which a knowledge of the normal wind-system is indispensable .
In respect of temperature , it is obvious that , except in the case of dynamic heating and cooling , a wind cannot per se raise the temperature of a place above , nor depress it below , that of the region from which it immediately comes .
Any change of temperature that it may undergo along its course must therefore be due to.local causes , such as evaporation , radiation , or the absorption of solar or terrestrial heat in transitu .
effect of a wind is to tend to equalise the temperature of places along its path .
Before applying this postulate to the meteorology of the region in question , it is , then , necessal.y to consider those changes of temperature that may arise from dynamic causes ; and of these one class of cases only need be noticed , viz. that of a current which is cooled by a rapid ascent to a higher level , or heated by descent to a lower level .
The latter , if recognizable , will chiefly affect the temperature of stations on the plains , the former that of hill-stations .
Both these actions doubtless take place on a great scale over the plains of Northern India , since we have seen that at one season this region is the terminus a , at another the terminus quem air-currents are set in motion , and during the continuance of these currents there must be a constant passage of air from the higher to the lower strata , or vice versed .
If , then , dynamic heatin be appreciable , it should be detected in a relatively higher temperature of the air on the plains of Upper India in the cold-weather months ; and for evidence of cooling by the ascent of the air , we should look for a relatively lower temperature of the hill-stations in the months of the effect in eithel .
case belng shown by a difference of temperature between hill-and plain-stations greater than at those times when the interchange between the different strata is at a minimum .
But the evidence tabulated at page 689 shows that it is precisely at these former seasons .
F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
November .
The cool current from the North-western Provinces flows most steadily down the Gangetic valley , across Western Bengal and the tract intervening between this province and Nagpore ; and it is here that the isothermals make their great southerly bend .
Their northerly curvature opposite to the Gulf of Cambay and in Eastern Bengal , shown more or less distinctly in all the cold-weather months , I can attribute only to the influence of the anti-monsoon currents flowing at lower levels in those regions .
The evidence on this head afforded by the tabulated observations of the surface-winds is , of course , not very distinct , but is not altogether wanting , and , as far as it goes , lends support to this view .
I have noticed , in Part I. pages \amp ; of this paper , that southerly winds blow on the Arakan coast a full month after they have ceased on the opposite coast of India , and at Dacca calms are very common in the cold-weather months , which is not the case normally at Calcutta* .
Moreover the diurnal movement of the wind in the four months of the cold weather averages miles only at Dacca , while at Calcutta it is miles per day .
At Ajmere , again , southerly winds are in excess both in October and February , and they are very common both in December and January ; and here , too , as in the North-western Provinces ( but not in the Central Provinces ) , calms are very common throughout the cold weather .
The isobars afford evidence to a similar effect .
In all the cold-weather months there is a lower mean pressure over Eastern Bengal , and , as far as evidence goes , apparently opposite the Gulf of Cambay ( certainly on the Bombay coast ) , than in the region between Nagpore and the Gangetic delta .
I conclude , then , that while the anti-monsoon currents exist probably over the whole of Northern India , they flow in greater volume and at levels in Eastern Bengal and opposite the Gulf of Cambay than elsewhere .
In the hot weather the course of the isothermals is evidently determined chiefly by the form of the land ; but in July the cooling influence of the monsoon currents , setting in from both coasts , is very distinctly shown in the chart ; and up to September the hottest region is that most remote from the coast , as measured along the course of the rain-bearing winds .
With respect to the influence of the winds on rainfall , little is to be added to what already been said .
The winter rains are , I conclude , dependent upon the descent of the .
anti-monsoon current , and to the cooling which it undergoes by radiation either .of the air directly , or of the land-surface with which it comes in contact .
In December and January the isotherm of or coincides approximately with the limit of the At both of these stations calms have been recorded regularly throughout the period represented in the .
F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
Wour-tension above that of saturation .
But vapour must always fend to assume such distribution ; and thus a current which has already been robbed of a large part of its vapour by passing over the Sahyadree ridge , even though rendered hygrometrically dry redescending to lower levels , may gradually become resaturated in its higher strata by the upward diffusion of its residual moisture .
After the first falls , moreover , if the current is uninterrupted , a portion of the precipitated rain , which may be roughly estimated between .
one fourth and one third , will be again taken up by evaporation and carried further inland , again to be precipitated .
In this probably also is to be explained the gradual advance of the rains up the Ganges valley to the Punjab , a progress which occupies three or four weeks from the setting in of the heavy rainfall in Bengal .
The rainless , or nearly rainless , climate of Sind and the plains of Bikaneer owes its character doubtless to that of the arid countries to the west and north-west .
In the absence of any wind-observations in this region , this cannot be verified ; but a very pro- bable explanation is furnished by the following considerations .
This region , including the Punjab , appears to be the seat of the lowest in the lainy morths ; and it has been shown , from the wind-registers of the last-named province * , that during this period of the year there is a kind of cyclonic circulation of the winds around it .
Accord- ingly ( and this the wind- and rain-registers show ) on its northern and easterri borders it receives a moderate rainfall from winds that reach it from the east and south-east , having travelled up the Ganges valley or across the Satpooras and the Malwa and Bundelkund plateau ; but on the south and west , if the rule there holds good , they must come from Baloochistan , Arabia , and Persia , all exceedingly dry countries .
As far as I can speak from my lecollection of a register kept at Khelat some years since , such rain as falls on the hills to the west of the Indus coins from the eastward .
GENERAL SUMMARY .
The north-east monsoon of Indian seas is produced by the cooling and condensation of a comparatively calm atmosphere over the land-surface of India .
It has its origin in the plains of the Punjab , Upper and Central India , and Assam ; probably also on the southern slopes of the Himalaya , where the air , cooled by radiation and contact with the surface of the hills , flows down the large valleys to mingle with the similarly cooled of the plains .
These currents are fed by an upper current , which I have termed the .
This is felt as a southerly wind on and over the south face of the Himaand descends on the plains of Upper and Central India , bringing the winter rains .
There would appear to be two principal branches of this current , the course in case being indicated by a higher temperature and lower pressure at the surface of the u\amp ; nacute ; d , as well as by the longer duration of southerly winds .
One of these flows at a er level opposite to the Gulf of Cambay , over a part of Rajpootana , and a portion at *Ante , Part I. , pages 560- seqq . .
H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
showing the increasing mean movement of the North-west Current during the Cold Weather .
Secondly , on the Himalaya , especially the north-west portion , southerly winds prevail throughout the cold weather ; and at stations 7000 or 8000 feet above the sea the atmospheric pressure falls in December and January , while on the plains it rises in December , and does not begin to fall till the end of the latter month .
Thirdly , in Upper India and the Punjab , easterly winds , bringing rain , are much more common than in Bengal , and the atmosphere is characteristically calm .
Winter rains also occur in Centrai India , where the lower current is from east and north-east .
Fourthly , there is a ridge of high mean pressure running from Roorkee through Benares to Cuttack , which I can account for only on the supposition that it coincides with a trough of low pressure in the upper atmosphere where the currents from north-east and south-west meet and descend .
Fifthly , there is in Eastern Bengal a region of low pressure where the northerly wind is unsteady and much interrupted by calms .
It is in the prolongation of the line of the Arakan coast where the southerly monsoon blows a month longer than on the Indian coast .
This I suppose to indicate the course of a main stream of the anti-monsoon , which is here lower than over Western Bengal , but does not , at least in general , descend to the land-level* .
Sixthly , the isothermal lines bend northward ( indicating a relatively high temperature ) opposite the Gulf of Cambay and in Eastern Bengal , and southwards between Western Bengal and Central India .
The former I suppose to indicate the course of the two principal branches of the anti-monsoon flowing northwards , the latter the place of their meeting , descent , and return as the beginning of the northerly monsoon .
The south-west monsoon is produced by the heating of the land-surface of the peninsula and the superincumbent air to a temperature much above that of the sea to the southward .
Six weeks before the vernal equinox , sea-winds begin to set in in the lowest stratum of the atmosphere , ou the maritime belt of Lower Bengal and Orissa , and gradu- ally advance further and further inland .
At the same time over the whole of Northern India the winds continue to blow from the westward , rising gradually in temperature , length blowing only or chiefly in the daytime as the hot winds of April and May .
Thk state of things depends probably on the high temperature being restricted to the stratum of air immediately over the ground .
But with the advance of the sea-winds When rain does occur , or the sky is cloudy , at Calcutta in the cold weather there is generally an terly , or southerly current above and calm below .
XDCCCLXXIv . .
H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
Fig. 5 .
Lower Winds 8 . .
monsoon .
The conclusion is , I think , in accordance with the evidence adduced in the foregoing pages , which at least establishes the superior steadiness , velocity , and extension of the south-west monsoon current .
It is , however , at variance with that of Dr. , and it is but due to the recognized eminence of that writer that I should specify why and wherein I differ from him .
Dr. IrRY considers that the south-west monsoon is a phenomenon of less magnitude than the north-east monsoon , which he regards as iden- tical in character with the north-east trade of the North Atlantic and of equally remote origin .
The passage has been quoted on a preceding page , in which he speaks of it as a current proceeding from Central Asia .
He regards both the north-west monsoon of Austraha and the south-west monsoon of India as a deflection or retroversion of the lowest stratum of a perennial trade-wind ; and infers from the perennial northerly flow of the smoke of the Merapi volcano in Java , and the prevalence of winds from north and west at Dodabetta during the south-west monsoon , described by Colonel SYKES , *that the former current is not more than 6000 feet , the latter 9000 or 10,000 feet in vertical thickness .
In regard to the latter , I will observe , in the first place , that it has already been shown that the north-east monsoon of Indian seas has its origin in Northern India , and is there , at all events , a current of less depth and magnitude than Dr. MUHRY supposes , since the winds on the North-west Himalaya at 7000 or 8000 feet are throughout southerly .
There is , then , no reason to infer that the south-west monsoon is merely a deflected current of a trade-wind , the very existence of which over India is negatived by the evidence .
Secondly , Dr. MUHRY has omitted to notice certain obser- vations of Colonel SYKES , which at least imply doubt of the north-west winds of Dodabetta being the return current of the south-west monsoon .
He says that " " it very frequently blows from only one or two points to the northward of west , and may belong the monsoon of Western India , local physical circumstances having given it a slant\ldquo ; There is nothing improbable.in this explanation , as the broad valley in which lies the station of Ootacamund runs up to the north-west of the peak , and in mountain-tracts Philosophical Transactions ( 1850 ) , vol. .
p. 373 .
MR. H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
623 Kpted for avertical column of the atmosphere over Lower Bengal has to be executed similar atmospheric columns in the drier climate of Upper India .
The peculiar mtiations in the absorption and radiation of beat at hill-stations and on the great phteaux which have been adverted to in the foregoing pages have to be worked out affi explained ; as a preliminary to which , the present methods of observation must be retested and probably modified , in order to exclude the disturbing effect of convectioncurrents .
These convection.currents , both on the hill-sides and over the open plains , are in themselves an important object of inquiry , especially those that must be formed between the land- and sea-winds : the upper currents , the existence of which I have inferred from various indications , await verification , wherever possible , by regular obser- vations of the drifting of the higher clouds and the whole question of the diurnal variation of the winds and other meteorological elements , such as the barometric tides , remains yet for investigation .
Furthermore , the causes of those persistent irregularities that characterize the monsoons of different years , to which I drew attention in the 39th volume of the Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal , demand special inquiry , both on account of their scientific and their economic importance .
And , lastly , the data from other parts of India not yet treated of , or of which the treatment has been egpecially deficient , have to be brought together and collated with those now given .
When this shall have been done , it is not improbable that the conclusions here drawn may be found in some respects to require modification .
But I think that in all their leading features they are justified by the evidence adduced ; and even were it otherwise , since truth may be educed from elror , but never from confusion , I might still hope that this discussion may serve a useful purpose in urging forward the work yet to be done in India , and that it may contribute something of value to the general progress of the science .
APPENDIX .
Note on the Cyclones of the Bay of Bengal.\mdash ; O seventy-three storms , notices of which I have met with in ecords and in Mr. PIDDINGTON'S works , or which I have myself recorded in recent years , the distribution in the several months is as follows:\mdash ; January 2 May 17 June 4 March 1 July 2 April .
5 August 2 January 2 May 17 June 4 March 1 July 2 April .
5 August 2 January 2 March 1 April .
5 January 2 March 1 April .
5 January 2 March 1 April .
5 May June July August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August January 2 May June March 1 July April .
5 August September 3 October 20 November 14 December 3 All that have occurred between November and the end of April have been restricted to the south of the Bay ; and the same is to be said of the greater part of the November .
May and the first half of June and October with the first week of November are the only periods in which cyclones can be said to be prevalent in the north of the , though they , occur occasionally in the intervening months , that is , during the southweat nonsoon .
It will be sufficient therefore for my present purpose to consider the normal state of the winds and atmospheric pressure at these two periods of the year , and how far they help to throw light on the conditions which favour the formation of these storms .
It has been shown , in the summary of Part I. of the foregoing discussion , that southerly winds set in on the coast of Bengal in February , at first as mere local sea-breezes , and that as the sun ascends in declination they come from further out at sea and extend further inland .
The change from north to south takes place on the Indian coast earlier than on that of Arakan ; but in May southerly winds prevail over the whole of the Ba , and indeed , according to and CORNELISSEN , down to the line .
But gened rally the winds are light except near the coast , and the south-west monsoon has not yet set in .
The mean pressure at Port Blair , reduced to sea-level , is inches ; at Akyab ; at Madras ; at Calcutta ; so that the mean barometric gradient is about inch in 800 miles , or half as great as in July .
There can then be no question of conflicting currents being the cause of cyclones in this month , unless it be assumed that ( as Sir JOHN HERSCHEL has suggested in the case of the West-Indian storms ) an upper return current strikes down with a high velocity into the southerly surface current .
But there is no evidence of this in any case that I have investigated ; and were this the determining cause , it would remain unexplained why cyclones are not more frequent during the south-west monsoon , when the lower current evidently at sea , and the upper therefore inferentially , have a higher velocity than in May .
It would still remain to ascertain what brings the upper current down .
In October the circumstances are very different .
Unsteady north-east winds do then blow on the coast of Orissa , while south-west or more frequently south-east winds prevail MR. H. F. BLANFORD ON THE WINDS OF NORTHERN INDIA .
the east and south of the Bay .
The mean ( sea-level ) pressure at Port Blair is then , at Akyab , at Madras , and at Calcutta .
Hence the pressure is nearly uniform around the coasts of the Bay , and , as might be expected , calms are very frequent .
Here , again , although less decidedly than in May , there can hardly be any question of conflicting currents other than such as are temporary and due to local irregularities .
The north-east monsoon has not yet set in ; and it is to be remarked that at False Point , where north-east winds most frequent , calms are also more frequent than in any other month in the year .
The atmosphere over the Bay is , then , calmer in October than in May ; but storms are most frequent in the former month , and indeed , if we regard only those which disturb the northern part of the Bay , one and a half times as frequent in October as in May* .
Consequently a calm atmosphere or variable winds would appear to be a condition favouring the formation of cyclones ; and this is verified by the facts of the few storms of which I have been able to trace the antecedent conditions .
I. The Calcutta storm of the 5th October , 1864 , appears to have originated on or about the 2nd of the month , to the west of the Northern Andaman .
For several days previously the winds in the north of the Bay were variable , but on the whole southerly ; at Madras they were from east-south-east ; at Port Blair from south-west , then southeast , and finally west.south-west ; and the pressure was lower at Port Blair than at any other station .
It was not until the 2nd ( that is , the day on which the storm formed ) that a north-east wind set in down the Madras coast .
From the readings of an uncompared barometer at Port Blair , it would appear that the pressure at the Andamans had been lower than in Ceylon .
at Madras or Calcutta , at all events since the 26th of September , perhaps earlier , and that it fell not less than from noon of the 30th September to noon of the 1st October .
II .
The Calcutta cyclone of the 2nd November , 1867 , was formed on the 27th October , in latitude to the west of the Nicobar Islands .
For at least four days previously the barometric pressure in this region was lower than elsewhere in or around the Bay .
" " It was also lower ( on the 24th October certainly , and probably on the previous day also ) than on the open sea to the southward .
The depression was gradually intensified up to the 27th , when it began to blow a hurricane on the northern limit of the area It red that over the greater part of the Bay the pressure was nearly ] , and that the depression was local and bounded by a high barometric gradient .
For many days prior to the 24th , light south-easterly winds had prevailed on the Indian coast , while in Bengal the wind was variable with a predominance of easting .
To the south , between the equator and north latitude , a squally , damp , west-north-west wind blew continuously , having prevailed at least from the 11th of the month .
On the 27th it beam west-south-west , drawing round towards the area of depression .
On the 24th * Seo Report on the Calcutta Cyclone of Ootober 1865 , p. 101 .
The origin of this storm was described at length in the Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xvii .
p. 472 .
I quote above ome from this paper .
626 MR. H. F. BLANFORD ON THB WINDS OF NORTJfERN INDIA .
east wtand 2east wengal aacing t of the Nicobars ; and the cyclone-vortex was formed by the iudraught of these three currents to the preexistin area of barometric depression .
III .
" " The storm of the 13th to the 17th* May , 1869 , originated near Cape Negrais on .
the first of these days .
A south-west breeze had been blowing pretty steadily over the greater part of the Bay for some days before , the mean direction being south-south-west in the north of the Bay , south-west in the middle , and west-south-west in the south Only " " in the neighbourhood of the Andamans , Cape Negrais , and lLngoon a northerly or north-westerly wind was felt occasionally during the ten days previous ; but it was unaccompanied by any fall of temperature , and would seem to have been a local deflection of the south-west current " " Some observations of pressure in the neighbourhood of Cape Negrais would seem to indicate the existence of a slight barometric depression in the Gulf of Martaban and to the west and north of Cape Negrais , but the instruments were not sufficiently trustworthy to establish the fact in a satisfactory manner IV .
The storm of the 5th to the 10th June of the same year was apparently formed in the middle of the Bay , in about north latitude .
At Port Blair the wind had been steady from south and south-west for two or three days ; at Chittagong and Akyab southerly , with alternations of land- and sea-breezes ; at Saugor Island south ; at False Point south-east ; and a steamer crossing the head of the Bay from Calcutta to Akyab had a steady south-east breeze .
Around the coasts , the pressure was lowest at Saugor Island on the 4th , when it was below that at Port Blair , lather less than the normal difference in this month .
On the 5th the difference was reduced one half of this ; but in the middle of the Bay , when the storm originated , the barometer stood at more than inch ower than at Saugor Island , and there is evidence of the win beginning on that day to curve in around the local depression . .
The cyclone of the 7th and 8th October of the same yearX commenced in the northern part of the Bay on the morning of the former day .
At Port Blair the wiud had been steady from the south-west for several days , and the barometer had not varied mole than 03 inch on the mean of the day from the 2nd to the 6th .
At Akyab the barometric change had been but little greater and the wind had been light from southsouth-east , with one or two changes to north and east , for a few hours , which probably due to local causes .
On the 6th it was steady from between south-south-east and south-west , blowing moderate to fresh .
At Saugor Island the wind was light and from the south up to midnight of the 5th , after which a light wind set in from east-north east and continued without much change till sunset of the 6th .
At False Point the barometer had been steady and the wind south-east or east .
In the south of the Bay the wind had been from west or west-south-west for several days and the weather squally ; this appears to be always the case before a cyclone .
VI .
The Vizagapatam storm of the 5th November , 1870 S , probably commenced on * Meteorological Report for Bengal , 1869 , p. 102 .
Ib .
, p. 103 . .
S Ib .
, 1870 , p. 116 .
ber a considerable change had taken place in the distribution of atmospheric presover the Bay .
On the 28th it had been lowest at Vizagapatam and Port Blair , : nd at Madras to the southward , and at all the coast stations around the north of the Bay , only about in .
higher than at .
On the three following days the Madras pressure remained almost unchanged ; but a general rise took place to the northwest , which the pressure at Vizagapatam up to an equality with that of Madras , and that of Saugor Island and False Point above all other stations .
At the same time a fall of inch took place at Port Blair , which reduced the pressure at that station to about inch below that in the north-west of the Bay .
Over the north of the Bay , as far down as or19o on the Indian coast , and down to Port Blair on the other side , the wind was from north and north-east .
At apatam it was variable , and at Madras chiefly from the .
On the open sea to the southward , the westerly monsoon , with its characteristic squally weather , prevailed ; but over a triangular area , extending across the Bay between Coconada , Madras , and Rangoon , and variable winds had prevailed for two weeks previously , and it was along the middle of this calm belt that the cyclone subsequently took its course .
hese instances show at least that the existence of opposite currents antecedently to the formation of a cyclone is by no means an essential condition .
In the case of storms I. , IV .
, and .
no northerly or north-easterly wind was felt in the north-west of the Bay until the day that the storm-vortex was found , and the barometric depression which , in the first case certainly , and probably in the others pre-existed , must have been the cause both of the north-east wind and the cyclone ; and in the other cases mentioned , the north-east wind in no case blew further south than the place of the storm 's origin .
It is generally difficult to ascertain the exact balometric pressure at the place at which a storm originates for a week or ten days before the cyclone is formed , since such data can be obtained only from such ships as may subsequently arrive in Calcutta , if even from them ; and in most cases the instruments in use on board ships are not read with that accuracy that is requisite to establish the existence of a depression of less than about inch ( a large amount in tropical seas ) , their inherent error is generally unknown ; but such data as I have obtained have led me to infer that , as in the case of storm II .
, an area of barometric depression is , as a rule , formed several days before the cyclone is generated ; and a priori considerations would lead us to expect that such must be the case , producing a convergence of the air around .
When such a convergence has once been established , the formation of a cyclone is easily explained from } physical laws .
I must therefore conclude that the views put forward by Mr. MELDRUM with respect to the formation of storms in the South Indian Ocean* , viz. that they are produced between parallel currents flowing in opposite directions , do not hold good in the case of the Bay of Bengal .
I infer that a calm state of the atmosphere , or one in which the * Proceedings of the Neteorological Society of London , 1869 , vol. p. 283 .
I1DCCCLXX1V .
this state of things last for some days , the atmospheric pressure will be locally lowered , causing , or tending to cause , an indraught of air towards the place of minimum pressure .
In order that a cyclone may ensue , one further condition appears to be essential .
It was pointed out in a paper on the origin of the Noyember cyclone , 1867 , published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society* , that most of the storms of the Bay of Bengal originate along a line running from south to north by the Nicobars , Andamans , and the islands of the Arakan coast .
Some , such as those of the 5th andlOth June and the 7th and 8th October , 1869 ( supra IV .
, also a storm that occurred during the present year ( 1872 ) on the 30th June and 1st July , originate about the middle of the Bay .
But I do not know of a single case in which a cyclone has been actually formed in the north-west of the Bay , or under the lee of the Madras coast , although more than one case has been recorded in which most of the requisite conditions were fulfilled , and in which for some days there has seemed reason for apprehending onex .
These facts , I think , find their explanation in another fact , surmised by Colonel GASTRnLL and myself as a probable local law in 1865 , and verified in the case of every storm I have yet investigated ( where sufficient evidence has been forthcoming ) , viz. that the formation of a cyclone is determined by an inrush of a saturated stormy current from the south-west or westsouth-west .
Now , under the lee of the Madras coast or in the north-west of the Bay , any wind coming from this direction must pass over the peninsula , a course which would drain it to a great extent of its vapour , while its free passage would be enormously impeded by friction and the irregularities of the face ; but in the eastern half of the Bay no such impediments present themselves to its free access , and its high velocity and abundant vapour seem to be the determining conditions of the formation .
of cyclones .
I would especially guard myself against being supposed to extend the above views , mutati.mutandis , to the case of the South Indian Ocean , or , indeed , any area other than that I am specially dealing with .
Doubtless it will be found that in each region subject to cyclones the determining conditions present local modifications ; and the best way to arrive at a general theory of the formation of cyclonic storms will be to ascertain the local conditions as accurately as possible in each case by independent study , as Mr. MELDRUM has done in the South Indian Ocean , and as I have here attempted for the Bay of Bengal .
It will then be easy to eliminate all that is merely local , and to establish general laws by a comparison of the results so obtained .
* Proceedings of the Royal Society , xvu .
p. 479 .
Described by Mr. W. WIILS in a Report to the Government of Bengal .
the Meteorological Reports for 1870 , , and 1871 , p. 124 .
Another case occurred the present year on the 26th October .
S Report on the Calcutta Cyclone of .
l05 , \amp ; c.

