218 Dr. J. D. Macdonald on the Distribution of [ Mar. 20 , March20 , 1873 .
Mr. GEORGE BUSK , Vice-President , in tire Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Distribution of the Invertebrata in relation to the Theory of Evolution/ ' By John D. Macdonald , M.D. , E.R.S. , Staff Surgeon R.N. , Assistant Professor of Naval Hygiene , Netley Medical School .
Received February 26 , 1873 .
All organized beings exhibit both structural and functional conditions , forming the grounds of comparison by which natural affinities , in smaller groups , and points of difference in larger ones , are detected and established in systematic classification .
General anatomical or physiological considerations in agreement are usually of more importance than the harmony of single or special conditions of either description ; and though structural characters , as a rule , are superior to those of a functional nature , much may be learnt from an arrangement founded on physiological principles alone .
I have elsewhere pointed out the deceptiveness of taking the habit of life as a guide in classification , though this is adopted by many zoologists ; for essentially different types may live under precisely similar circumstances , or the habit of life may be very different in the members of the same type .
Thus , if we look upon a pectinate gill for aquatic respiration , fluviatile or marine , and the amphibious coincidence of this with a pulmonary chamber , or the presence of the latter cavity alone in purely terrestrial Gasteropoda , as grouping characters , nothing can be more erroneous , for all these conditions of the respiratory system are to be met with in unequivocal examples of the same group , anatomically defined , as in the Nerite alliance , or that of Rissoafor example .
Nevertheless animals so simple in their nature as the Protozoa may be distributed phy siologically , with some show of truthfulness , in the resulting scheme .
Passing the leading types of the Protozoa in review , we notice that the Gregarinidao alone are essentially parasitic in their habit of life , obtaining nutriment from materials elaborated by other animals .
A the rest are therefore non-parasitic , deriving their sustenance from the outer world .
If we now consider the manner in which nutritious matters are taken up and assimilated by these animals , we find that some of them must subsist on organic substances in solution , which aie absorbed by the general surface of the body .
Moreover we observe that this takes place either indirectly through a more or less consisten 1873 .
] the Invertehrata in relation to Evolution .
investing substance , or directly through the pores , foramina , or fenestrations of the calcareous or siliceous capsules protecting the contained sarcode-bodies .
In other instances , on the contrary , solid food is actually consumed by mouthless beings , which simply open their bodies to receive it ; and this opening of the body may take place at any part of the surface most convenient , or it may be restricted to a definite locality , shadowing forth the permanent mouth of the Stomatoda , or even that of the most primitive form of Hydrozoa .
The annexed Table of arrangement is drawn up in accordance with the foregoing remarks .
Physiological Classification of the Protozoa .
Habit of life and mode of nutrition:\#151 ; I. Parasitic ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Gregarinidw .
II .
Non-parasitic .
A. Assuming food in a state of solution by absorption of the general surface .
1 .
Indirectly through a medium a. Forming a cell-like envelope ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Thalassicollida .
b. Lining porous canals in the common mass ... ... ... Porifera .
2 .
Directly through a. The pores or foramina of a calcareous shell ... ... Foraminifera .
b. Fenestrations of a siliceous shell ... ... ... ... ... Polycystma .
c. A more largely exposed surface ... ... ... ... ... ... Acanthometridce\ B. Assuming solid food by an adventitious mouth .
1 .
At any part of the surface where the contact is made ... Monera , Amoeba , $c .
2 .
At a definite part , determined by the opening of the shell Gromia , Bifflugia , $c .
C. Assuming solid food by a permanent mouth .
1 .
The same orifice being also excretory ... ... ... ... . .
Infusoria .
2 .
Discharging excreta by a rudimentary anus ... ... ... Noctilucidce .
This Table may be said to afford us good general grounds for forming an estimate of the relative superiority of the several types thus physiologically defined , and it is mainly in keeping with their more commonly received distribution founded on structural particulars .
A show of progressive improvement is seen in the respective sections A , B , and C , though to all appearance the simplest group of animals in existence , namely the Monera of Ilackel , is included in the section B. These rudimentary creatures are destitute of both nucleus and contractile vesicle , though exhibiting activities in movement , taking food , and reproducing their kind , not even second to those of Amoeba and its allies .
The smallest ciliated molecule endowed with animal life could not present a more simple structure than that of the perfectly homogeneous and jelly-like Monera .
Indeed the evolution of any of the of her primitive forms from a plastic source like this is quite conceivable , though of course we have no actual means of observing such a transmutation .
Moreover the development of amoeboids in some part of the life-history of most Protozoa would appear to stamp that form as the 220 Dr. J. D. Macdonald o the Distribution of [ Mar. 20 , earliest genetic type of beings .
" With the exception of a nucleus and a contractile vesicle , Amoeba itself may have sprung from Protamoeba ; and the finally encysted jelly-globules of and breaking up into naked amoeboids , or pseudonavicell\#174 ; liberating them , very strikingly suggest the source from which the may have been evolved .
The valuable researches of Mr. Archer , of Dublin , have brought to light many very interesting freshwater Protozoa , thus much augmenting our materials for comparison , and adding new zest to inquiry as to their natural affinities or their probable origin and derivatives .
If evolutionary forces are admitted to be in constant operation , it would be hard to say that any two existing forms should stand to each other in the relation of source and product .
It would perhaps be safer to say that existing forms have taken their origin from such forms as are still in existence ; for as it is but reasonable to suppose that in the lapse of time all the members of the primary type must have undergone some change , the persistence of that type through all in its primitive state is difficult to conceive , though , for any thing we yet know , this may be the case .
Without indulging in this theme further , if we now seek for the most probable derivatives of definite types of Protozoa , some remarkable facts strike us first in relation to the cestoid worms as bearing upon their possible derivation from the Gregarinid\#174 ; .
I have already noticed the affinity of the Gregarimans themselves to Protomyxa and Myxastrum amongst the Monera ; but when we find the hooklets of Taenia and the sucker-pits of Tcenia and Bothryocephalu shadowed forth in rhynchus and Actinocephalus respectively , we can scarcely help acknowledging the alliance here indicated .
In the Gregarinid\#174 ; , moreover , there is not only a distinct external integument , but Yan Beneden has lately demonstrated the existence of circular muscular fibres on its inner surface ; a similar habit of life in both cases is also very significant .
Nor would it be inconsistent to regard theTrematoda and Nematoidea as further developments of the same series of essentially internal parasites .
Now , although the Thalassicollid\#174 ; are not parasites , the genus colla and the Gregarince alone of all the simple Protozoa take up their nutriment in solution , after the manner of the compound forms , namely the Porifera , restricted Polycystina , and Foraminifera .
This fact , I think , is significant , as suggesting the derivation of Gregarina from some such original as Thalassicolla , as it does not seem natural to suppose that the former , which is so essentially an Entozoon , could have been descende from a stock capable of assuming solid food in the outer world.^ Dr. Carpenter unconsciously gives us the weight of his opinion in t e following quotations from his valuable work on the microscope .
On page 449 he says , speaking of Sphcerozoum , " Towards the inner surface o this ( the outer ) coat are scattered a great number of oval bodies resembling the Invertebratain relation to Evolution .
1873 .
] cells , having a tolerably distinct membraniform wall and a conspicuous round central nucleus , thus corresponding closely with the type .
" I might mention in passing that , having frequently taken in the towing-net the unequivocal allies of with sarcode bodies identical with those of Sphcerozoum , I have no hesitation in assuming Dictyocha itself to belong rather to the Thalassicollidse than to the group with which it is more usually associated .
This family is commonly included under the head of Phizopoda ; and there can be no doubt that the generalization , irrespective of that term , is a correct one ; but it is a stretch of transcendental anatomy to speak of the existence of pseudopodia in any member of it .
The radiating branched filaments within the dense external investment of Thalassicolla are not extensions of the sarcode-body , like those of Gromiafor example , but apparently act as retinacula , and as conduits for dialytic currents , which may account for the phenomenon of cyclosis observed in some instances .
Professor James-Clark , of Pennsylvania , appears to have satisfied himself , at least , that there is a remarkable agreement of characters exhibited between the Porifera and the Infusoria , which are connected , as he endeavours to show , by a regular gradation of animals .
The derivation of the latter group of Protozoa from the former , which I had myself assumed quite independently , is therefore supported by that gentleman 's researches .
Even with our present advanced knowledge of the Infusoria it is doubtful if we do not still include amongst them the larvae of and , indeed , the passage from the one type to the other would appear to be natural and easy .
On the other hand , tracing through such forms as Nemertes , Bonellici , and Priajyulus , Sipwill lead directly to the less equivocal Echinodermata ; and here the series must wind up , for further evolution , though perhaps possible , does not appear to have taken place .
The existence of such low or simple forms of Kotifera as the genus Asplcinchna , for example , would be favourable to the idea that the Noctilucidse might have been the progenitors of that order of beings .
It is of course quite gratuitous , but convenient , at present to assume that the Noctilucidae would thus hold the same relationship to the Polycystina that the Infusoria appear to do to the Porifera .
However this may be , it is more certain that the Pot if era are at the root of the annulose and articulate series .
Prom the Potifera , through the Annelida , we may thus trace the development of the erustaceous and chitinous types of Articulata like a dichotomous branch .
The Annelida may be linked with the Crustacea by means of the Sagittidao , whose exquisitely striped muscular fibres accord to them a higher position than the other parts of their organization would perhaps warrant them to take .
Dr. J. D. Macdonald on the Distribution of [ Mar. 20 , There is obviously a representative relationship between the crusta-ceous Macrura , Anomura , and Brachyura and the chitinous Myriopoda , Insecta , and Arachnida .
The earthworms and the leeches may help to fill up the gap between the Ohsetopod Annelida and the Myriopoda ( as , for example , between the genera Geophilusand Nereis ) , though it must be confessed that the exist- ing links are inadequate , or they have never been sufficiently made out .
The first rudiments of a tracheal system are probably to be sought for in the Terricolous Annelida , though true articulated limbs and a dorsal heart seem to make their first appearance in the Iulidas .
Should the simplest hydroid polyps have sprung from such Protozoa as Difftugia , Arcella , or Astrorhiza , with their pseudopodial tentacula encircling a fixed oral point , the existence of a living series from the lowest type of animals to that which is obviously on the confines of the Vertebrata would be clearly demonstrable* .
Furthermore , as the interpolation of any other invertebrate types would disturb the harmony here , the inference is natural that they also might be distributed in a similar way into as many groups or series as their affinities or antipathies would suggest or necessitate .
Having studied this subject very carefully , it appears to me that the whole of the Invertebrata admit of distribution into four distinct series , corresponding with the number of sections of the Protozoa , from which all the other types may have taken their origin .
Thus , on dividing the Astomatous Protozoa into compound types and their allied simple forms , we obtain the following highly suggestive arrangement , in which the groups represent each other so remarkably that they would seem to be quite natural .
I have appended the Stomatodaand the twelve remaining sections of the Invertebrata in the order indicated by their affinities .
* The annexed Table exhibits the progressive modification of the alimentary system in ascending from the Hydrozoa to the Tunicata :\#151 ; Evolution of the Alimentary Canal in 'particular .
Moeluscoida ( including Cteno-phora ) ... ... ... CtELENTERATA ( With primary hamial j and final neural l flexure ... ... ... ... , , J the somatic cavity ... 'j With simple neural f and flexure ... ... ... .J Intestine insulated from i Intestine straight , and communicating with j Ctenophorci .
I the somatic cavity ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ./ f Intestine not yet developed ; stomach commu-1 Actinozoa .
J nicating with the somatic cavity ... .
; . . .
I True stomach not yet developed , its office being j jjyfoozoa % answered by the somatic cavity ... ... ... ... .J Additional matter in the above connexion will be found in a paper by the author 4 On the Morphological Relationships of the Molluscoida and Coelenterata , ^ published , in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , vol. xxiii .
part 3,1864 .
1873 .
] the Invertebrata in relation Evolution .
Scheme of Classification Leading Types of Protozoa , aggregate or compound .
1 .
Collospheera .
2 .
Porifera .
3 .
Polycystina .
4 .
Foraminifera .
Corresponding simple forms .
Thalassieolla .
Gregarina .
Aetinophrys .
Gromia .
Acantliometra .
Podocyrtis .
Amoeba .
Difflugia .
Derivative types .
Cesfcoidea .
Trematoda .
Nematoidea .
Infusoria .
Turbellaria .
Sipunculidoe .
Eehinodermata .
Noctilueida ? .
Rotifera .
Annelida .
Articulata .
Ccelenterata .
Molluscoida .
Mollusca .
So as not to complicate the Table , I thought it better to supplement it with the definition of the four leading types of compound Protozoa .
1 .
In the Collospheera type , the sarcode-bodies lie at some distance apart and are always distinct .
2 .
In the Porifera type the sarcode-bodies are closely approximated or confluent .
3 .
In the Polycystina type the sarcode-bodies are concentric and connected by radiating stolons .
4 .
In the Foraminifera type the sarcode-bodies are connected by stolons in linear series or some order of juxtaposition .
If it is incumbent upon the developmental hypothesis to derive the Yertebrata from the preexisting Invertebrata , the only line through which it would be possible to trace their descent is that leading from the Protozoa to the Mollusca proper , or the fourth series of the Table .
It would also appear that the Entozoa , Echinodermata , and Articulata appertain severally to separate series of their own ; and whatever may happen by-and-by , it would be difficult to find , in the present fauna of the globe , a single form clearly deducible from any of them .
The habit of life of the Entozoon , the peculiarity of structure of the Echinoderm , and the very perfection of organization of the Articulata , as it were , preclude their evolution into any other existing type .
To use a common phrase , they may be said to lead nowhere , though they may be easily and , I think , consistently traced back to their possible origin in the Protozoa .
It would be great presumption to say that even an approach to perfection had been attained in this attempted classification of a whole subkingdom of animals .
Nevertheless in the preceding Table the relationships existing amongst the members of that subkingdom are presented to the eye at a single glance , and in a manner that would be quite unattainable by systems maintaining the original creation of every so-called species , and that in an order perhaps more easily described than understood .

