The following papers were read , viz.:ยง 1 .
" Observations on the Blood-corpuscles , particularly with re ?
ference to opinions expressed and conclusions drawn in papers ( On the Corpuscles of the Blood , ' and * On Fibre/ recently published in the Philosophical Transactions .
" By T. Wharton Jones , Esq. , F.R.S. The author points out whathe considers to be important errors in the series of papers by Dr. Martin Barry , which have lately appeared in the Philosophical Transactions , and are entitled , " Ont/ ie Corpuscles of the Blood , " and " On Fibre ?
He alleges that Dr. Barry has generally confounded the colourless corpuscles contained in the blood with the red corpuscles of the same fluid ; each of which latter kind consists of a vesicle or cell , with thick walls , but in a collapsed and flattened state , and having therefore a biconcave form , and in consequence of its thick wall being doubled on itself , presenting under the microscope a broad circumferential ring , which is illuminated or shaded differently from the depressed central portion , according to the focal adjustment of the instrument : while the colourless corpuscles , on the other hand , are of a globular shape , strongly refractive of light , and granulated on their surface , and are of less specific gravity and of somewhat larger size than the red corpuscles .
The author quotes various passages from Dr. Barry 's papers in proof of his assertions , and refers particularly to fig. 23 of his second paper on the corpuscles of the blood .
He farther states , that Dr. Barry 's description of the appearances of what he terms the red corpuscles , in paragraphs 53 , 68 , and 76 of his second paper , can , in fact , apply only to the colourless corpuscles : and he observes , that even when Dr. Barry does , at last , in his " Additional Observa ?
tions , " advert to the distinction between the red and the colourless globules , he considers the latter as being merely " the discs " contained in the red globules appearing under an altered state .
The author regards as wholly erroneous the notion which Dr. Barry entertains that a fibre exists in the interior of the blood-corpuscle ; and that these fibres , after their escape from thence , consti ?
tute the fibres which are formed by the consolidation of the fibrin of the liquor sanguinis .
The beaded aspect presented by the double contour of the thick wall of the red corpuscle when it has been acted upon either by mechanical causes or by chemical reagents , of which the effect is to corrugate the edge , and to bend it alternately in op ?
posite directions , has , in the opinion of the author , given rise to the illusive appearance of an internal , annular fibre .
The appearance of flask-like vesicles presented by some of the red corpuscles , with the alleged fibre protruding from their neck , the author ascribes altogether to the effects of decomposition , which has altered the mechanical properties of the corpuscle , and allowed it to be drawn out , like any other viscid matter , into a thread .
In conclusion , he remarks , that if these statements of Dr. Barry should be recognised as fundamental errors in his premises , the whole of the reasonings built upon them must fall to the ground .
2 .
" Wind Table , from observations taken at the summit of the Ilockof Gibraltar .
" By Colonel George J. Harding .
Communicated by Captain Beaufort , R.N. , F.R.S. , by order of the Lords Commis ?
sioners of the Admiralty .
3 .
" Spermatozoa observed within the Mammiferous Ovum .
" By Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.S. L. and Eel .
In examining some ova of a rabbit , of twenty-four hours , the author observed a number of spermatozoa in their interior .

