I."On Terephthalic Acid and its derivatives .
" By WARREN DE LA RUE , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. , and HUGo MIULLER , Ph. D. , F.C.S. Received February 7 , 1861 .
Whilst pursuing our investigation of Burmese naphtha , an abstract of which we have already communicated to the Society , we noticed , among the products of the action of nitric acid on certain liquid hydrocarbons contained in Rangoon tar , an acid of peculiar properties .
A very lengthened investigation of this acid and its derivatives we are about bringing to a close ; but as the drawing up of this account will necessarily occupy a considerable time , we have thought it desirable to send a short abstract of the chief results we have obtained , with the view of its appearing in the ' Proceedings ' of the Society .
M. Caillot , about fifteen years ago , obtained a peculiar acid among the products of the action of dilute nitric acid on oil of turpentine , to which he gave the name of Terephthalic acid , on account of its generation from oil of turpentine and its isomerism with phthalic acid .
M. Caillot 's account of his new acid was so brief and incomplete , that , although we recognized many points of resemblance between it and the acid we had obtained from Burmese naphtha , we were compelled to repeat his experiments on oil of turpentine before we could fix with certainty the identity of the two products .
In the course of these experiments , in which that identity was fully established , we noticed some interesting features in the compounds of the acid and the derivatives we discovered ; more especially the relation of terephthalic acid to the well-known aromatic series , -a relation precisely analogous to that which succinic acid bears to the fatty acids .
The close relation which exists between terephthalic acid and benzoic acid is most strikingly manifested in the great number of derivatives which are obtained from the former ; indeed , nearly all of the most characteristic benzoylcompounds have their analogues amongst the derivatives of terephthalic acid .
Terephthalic acid being a bibasic acid , maintains its character throughout its various transformations , and it is this fact which claims particular interest .
Terephthalic acid , as well as its derivatives , forms the first term of a new series of well-characterized bodies , and may , as such , be considered the prototype of a great number of compounds still unknown .
Without dwelling at present on the tedious process by which terephthalic acid is produced , we may mention that it is obtainable from various sources .
We have , for instance , found that it is invariably formed , in a relatively small proportion , when toluylic acid is prepared from cymol ; it is also formed when cymol is treated with fuming nitric acid for the purpose of preparing nitrotoluylic acid .
It is important to mention , that whether the cymol be prepared from oil of cumin or from camphor , the result is the same .
Subsequently , we found that insolinic acid , which was described some years ago by Hofmann as a new acid of the formula C9 H8 O4 , is in reality terephthalic acid .
The formation of this acid from oil of cumin or cuminic aldehyde by the action of chromic acid on these substances , turned out to be the most ready method of preparing terephthalic acid ; and the principal part of our experiments were made with terephthalic acid which had been obtained from oil of cumin by this process .
Terephthalic acid being isomeric with phthalic acid , has the formula C'HI O ' ( Carbon 12 , Oxygen=-16 ) , as already known .
When pure , it forms a white opake powder ; but if thrown down from a boiling dilute alkaline solution , it may be obtained in a crystalline state .
When collected on a filter , these crystals dry in paper-like masses of a silky lustre .
Terephthalic acid is not perceptibly soluble in ether , chloroform , acetic acid , water , or the other usual solvents .
Concentrated sulphuric acid dissolves it to a considerable extent , especially when warm , without the formation of sulpho-terephthalic acid , and the acid separates unchanged on the addition of water .
On heating , terephthalic acid sublimes without previously fusing .
The sublimate , which is indistinctly crystalline , has the same composition and properties as the original acid , and therefore , unlike other bibasic acids , terephthalic acid cannot be converted into an anhydrite by merely heating it .
Terephthalic acid exhibits a remarkable deportment with regard to its salts ; for although bibasic , there appear to exist no double salts ; and even acid salts are only prepared with the greatest difficulty .
The alkaline terephthalates are all very soluble in water , but are insoluble in alcohol .
The potassium , sodium , and ammonium compounds can be obtained in well-crystallized forms .
Calcium and barium salts are less soluble than the before-named , and may be obtained in small scaly crystals .
The copper salt is a pale blue crystalline powder .
The silver and the lead salt occur as curdy precipitates when obtained by double decomposition .
The compounds of terephthalic acid with the alcohol radicals possess a particular interest , as they furnish the most direct proof of the bibasic nature of the acid .
There exist neutral and acid compounds .
The neutral ethers are obtained either by the action of chloride of terephthalyl on the alcohols , or by means of the iodide of the alcohol radicals and terephthalate of silver or of potassium .
The methyl-terephthalic ether , C8 H4 ( CI-3)9 O4 , is the most characteristic compound , and consequently may be used to detect the existence of terephthalic acid in the presence of other acids .
It forms beautiful flat prismatic crystals several inches long , which fuse at a temperature above 100 ?
( Cent. ) , and sublime without decomposition .
It is readily soluble in warm alcohol , and slightly soluble in cold alcohol .
The ethyl-terephthalic-ether forms long prismatic crystals resembling urea , and is readily soluble in cold alcohol .
The amyl-terephthalic-ether forms scaly crystals of pearly lustre , is readily soluble in alcohol , and fuses in the temperature of the hand .
Phenyl-terephthalic-ether , a white crystalline substance , fuses at above 100 ?
C. The acid compounds are generally formed in small quantities , along with the neutral ethers , by the action of the iodide of the alcohol radicals on terephthalate of silver .
They are well-defined monobasic acids , and form crystallizable substances soluble in alcohol .
Nitro-terephthalic acid , C8 H5 ( NO2 ) 0 ' .
This acid is formed by acting with a mixture of nitric and fuming sulphuric acid on terephthalic acid .
When crystallized from certain solvents , it forms welldeveloped prismatic crystals of a faint yellow colour .
From water , it deposits in cauliflower-like aggregations .
Nitro-terephthalic acid is readily soluble in warm alcohol and in warm water , and possesses the bibasic character of the terephthalic acid in a much higher degree .
It forms well-defined crystallizable acid and neutral salts .
The ethers of this acid are likewise crystal lizable .
They differ , however , from the terephthalic acid ethers by their greater solubility in alcohol and their depressed fusing-point .
Chloride of terephthalyl ( C8 H4 02 C12 ) is obtained , together with oxychloride of phosphorus ( hydrochloric acid being evolved ) , when terephthalic acid is acted upon with pentachloride of phosphorus at a temperature of 40 ?
( Cent. ) .
Chloride of terephthalyl is a solid and beautifully crystalline substance , without odour at the ordinary temperature , but evolving , when heated , a very pungent smell like that of chloride of benzoyl , which it resembles in all its reactions .
With the alcohols it forms terephthalic ethers , with ammonia an amide , and with the organic bases compound amides .
Terephthalylamide , C8 18 2 02 , can only be obtained by acting with chloride of terephthalyl on ammonia ; it is a white amorphous substance insoluble in all solvents .
Terephthalylamide , when treated with fuming nitric acid , yields nitro-terephthalic amide , C8 8 ( NO2 ) N2 0s , which crystallizes in beautiful prisms .
Terephthalamide shows a remarkable resemblance to benzamide when treated with substances capable of abstracting the elements of water .
It loses two equivalents of water ( H2 0 ) , and is converted into terephthalylnitril , Cs I14 N2 .
This remarkable substance is best formedbytheaction of anhydrous phosphoric acid on terephthalamide .
It distils over in form of a liquid , which solidifies in the neck of the retort .
Terephthalylnitril is colourless and without odour , and forms beautiful prismatic crystals .
It is insoluble in water , readily soluble in boiling alcohol , less soluble in cold alcohol , and insoluble in benzol .
When boiled with caustic alkalies , it is gradually decomposed , ammonia is given off , and terephthalic acid is reproduced .
It is obvious that terephthalylnitril , like all similar substances , may be considered as a cyanogen compound , which in this instance would be the cyanide of the bibasic radical phenylen , C6 H4 , which is not yet discovered .
If we could succeed in obtaining phenylen , the artificial production of terephthalic acid or an isomeric would probably be attended with little difficulty .
By acting on nitro-terephthalic acid with reducing agents , it undergoes the same change as other nitro-compounds .
The product of this reaction is the oxy-terephthalamic acid , or the analogue of the glycocoll of the formula C8 HI NO ' .
This new member of the glycocolls is a lemon-yellow substance , crystallizing in thin prismatic , and sometimes moss-like forms .
It is very slightly soluble in cold water , alcohol , ether , and chloroform .
Like other substances of this kind , terephthal-glycocoll combines xith bases as well as with acids .
The salts formed with the bases are crystalline ; they are readily soluble in water and dilute alcohol , yielding colourless solutions of most remarkable fluorescent properties , which have been investigated by Professor Stokes .
The aqueous and alcoholic solution of the pure terephthalic glycocoll shows the same properties .
The compounds with acids crystallize well , and if dissolved in a large quantity of water decompose .
They do not possess the fluorescence when in their acid solution .
The ether-like compounds of oxy-terephthalamic acid are obtained by acting upon the corresponding ethers of the nitro-terephthalic acid with reducing agents .
The methylic ether is a beautiful crystalline substance , readily soluble in warm alcohol , but much less soluble in any of the solvents than nitro-terephthalate of methyl .
The ethylic ether crystallizes in large crystals with an appearance resembling those of nitrate of uranium .
The solutions of this ether possess the fluorescent property in the highest degree .
Oxy-terephthalamate of methyl and ethyl combine with acids and form welldefined salts .
Oxy-terephthalamic acid , as well as its ether , are readily acted upon by nitrous acid , this reaction giving rise to a number of new derivatives , which vary in their nature according to the condition in which the reaction takes place .
M. Griess has lately made us acquainted with a new class of remarkable substances which are obtained by the action of nitrous acid on a certain class of nitrogenous bodies .
The several derivatives he obtained by this reaction from oxy-benzamic acid have their representatives in the bibasic terephthalyl series , and are obtained with the utmost facility .
On acting with nitrous acid upon an aqueous solution of the oxy-terephthalamic acid instead of an alcoholic solution , as is employed in Griess 's reaction , this substance is readily decomposed , nitrogen is given off in large quantities , and there gradually separates a whitish substance which is oxy-terephthalic acid , C8 I't 0 .
This acid is a substance of great interest , and its preparation offering much less difficulty than the analogous oxy-acids of the aromatic series , it affords an opportunity of studying to a fuller extent the nature of this class of acids , especially as it may be expected that the history of this acid will throw some light on the law of polybasicity .
Oxy-terephthalic acid forms beautiful crystalline salts , which are less soluble than the corresponding terephthalates .
The neutral ethers are liquid .
The chloride of oxy-terephthalyl is likewise a liquid readily decomposed by water and alcohols .

