68 Mr. Hainan and Dr. Marshall .
as greater than 90 ' , i.e.directed upwards to the left , but where the anatomical axis is distinctly less than 90 ' , i.e. directed downwards to the left .
] Corrigenda in Part I , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ B , vol. 86 .
Page 512 .
In the second line of the footnote tan = should read tan a Page 514 .
Last line , tan a = R-L R+L should read tan a R+L ' Page 520 .
The record of the right superior lead is placed upside down .
The first ventricular wave is actually negative .
Page 525 .
The numbers 36 and 47 in the last column ( 15th and 16th from bottom ) should be transposed .
On the Relation between the Thymus and the Generative Organs and the Influence of these Organs upon Growth .
By E. T. Halnan and F. H. A. Marshall .
( With a Note by G. Udny Yule .
) ( Communicated by Prof. J. N. Langley , F.R.S. Received April 4 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1914 .
) Calzolari was the first to show that in castrated male animals the absolute weight of the thymus is larger than that of the same gland in normal animals .
The experiments were made upon six rabbits , which were castrated when between one and three months old and killed at various periods afterwards up to nine months , each rabbit being compared with a control .
Subsequently Henderson carried out a statistical investigation upon the weight of the thymus in cattle , and showed that in these animals castration caused a persistent growth and a retarded atrophy of the gland .
Henderson also records two experiments upon guinea-pigs by Noel Paton , .
and the results of these are confirmatory of the observations upon cattle .
The possible reciprocal action of the thymus upon the testis was investigated by Noel Paton , who removed the former organ from 24 young , guinea-pigs and killed them when they attained weights varying from 115 to 355 grm. These animals were compared with 23 normal guinea-pigs kept as controls .
The conclusion reached was that in guinea-pigs below 300 grm. ( i.e. , prior to the time when the thymus usually atrophies ) thymectomy is followed by a more rapid growth of the testes .
In guinea-pigs above 300 grm. Paton found that the difference in weight of the testes in thymusless and normal animals was not manifest .
The figures upon

