Observations and Experiments on Vision .
By William Charles Wells , M.D. F.R.S. Read July 4 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 378 .
] The experiments here described by Dr. Wells were made in consequence of an imperfection of sight occurring to his observation , which he has nowhere seen upon record .
The subject to whom the disorder happened was a gentleman about thirty-five years of age , who , after a slight catarrh , had been seized with a degree of stupor , and weight of his forehead , accompanied with a paralytic state of the right eyelid .
The pupil of this eye was also observed to be much dilated ; and he had lost all power of adapting that eye to near objects , although he could see at a distance with great distinctness .
The left eye also became shortly after affected in a slight degree , and in a similar manner .
The nature of the defect became evident by trial of spectacles ; for it was found that convex glasses enabled him to read with perfect ease , and supplied the want of the power of adaptation which he had before possessed .
Since the application of the juice of belladonna to the eye occasions a dilatation of the pupil , it appeared to Dr. Wells not improbable that it might also affect other muscular powers of the eye .
It was his intention to have made this experiment on his own eyes ; but he found their power of adaptation too far diminished by age for such a trial .
He however prevailed on Dr. Cutting , a young physiciat of his acquaintance , to make trial of it .
The result was perfectly conformable to the supposition .
The dilatation of the pupil , it is true , commenced sooner than any other affection of the eye ; but in the course of three quarters of an hour , the eye , which before the experiment could see at six inches , could not now see at less than three feet and a half : and when its pupil had acquired the greatest dilatation , the rays from a candle , even at eight feet distance , could not be made to converge on the retina , but only those from stars , or from very distant lamps .
The defect thus occasioned by belladonna was found nearly in the same state on the following day ; and it was not till the ninth day that the power of adapting the eye to near objects was completely restored .
During the whole of this time it was observed that the affection was wholly confined to the left eye , on which the experiment was made , and that the right eye remained unaltered ; and in the same manner , when the experiment was afterwards repeated on the right , the left was then wholly unaffected by the belladonna .
The next observations relate to the changes which naturally take place in different eyes by age .
With respect to those who are shortsighted , it has been generally asserted by systematic writers , and generally believed by others , that their eyes are rendered fitter for seeing distant objects ; but Dr. Wells has observed , in various instances , that this was not the case .
One gentleman , a fellow of this Society , who was short-sighted in early life , and consequently in the habit of using spectacles with concave glasses constantly , could see with them perfectly at a great variety of distances till he arrived at the age of fifty .
But he then began to observe that distant objects viewed through the glasses to which he had been accustomed , were indistinct ; and he found it necessary to use others which were more concave for seeing objects at great distances .
But along with this change of his sight , another occurred of an opposite kind : for he now found , that when he wished to examine minute objects attentively , it was necessary to remove his spectacles entirely , and employ the naked eye alone .
It was true , therefore , that , with'respect to near objects , he had become longersighted , but in fact his range of vision was shortened equally at the opposite extreme , so that the mean is little altered from what it always has been .
In a second instance the variation produced by age in a short-sighted person was the same in kind , but not hitherto in so great degree .
In a few trials which Dr. Wells has made upon short-sighted persons with belladonna , the diminution of the range of adaptation has not taken place at both extremities , but the power of seeing near objects has alone been diminished .
He is not , however , altogether satisfied with these experiments ; and designs to pursue them further , and at some future time to communicate the results to the Society .
In the course of these experiments Dr. Wells observes , that the sympathy between the eyes , which is in general considered as sympathy of the iris , is in fact sympathy of the retina ; for when the pupil of one eye is dilated by belladonna , the pupil of the other becomes so much the more contracted , in consequence of the greater light which the enlarged pupil admits .
He remarks , also , that though he has lost , in great measure , the power of adaptation , he has in no degree lost any command of the external muscles , but can make the optic axes meet at any short distance from his face , to which he could formerly make them converge .
So also , while Dr. Cutting 's eyes were under the influence of belladonna , the powers of the external muscles remained unimpaired ; whence it appears , that the power of adapting the eye to different distances is not dependent on the external muscles , but rather to be referred to the crystalline lens , although the muscularity of that organ does not appear to Dr. Wells to be by any means established .

