206 Prof. J. A. Me William .
rMa y 17 , IV .
" On the Rhythm of the Mammalian Heart .
" By J. A. Me William , M.D. , Professor of the Institutes of Medicine in the University of Aberdeen .
Communicated by Professor M.-Foster , Sec. R.S. Received April 26 , 1888 .
The following are some uf the general conclusions arrived at from a prolonged investigation of the rhythm of the mammalian heart .
The experiments were conducted on the cat , , dog , rabbit , rat , hedgehog , and guinea-pig , the cat being the animal most commonly used .
The animals were anaesthetized , artificial respiration was kept up , the thorax was laid open , and the action of the heart was recorded by various adaptations of the graphic method 1 .
Minimal stimulation of the quiescent cardiac muscle is at the same time maximal ; a stimulus which is strong enough to excite contraction at all excites a maximal contraction .
The strength of an artificially excited beat does not depend* on the strength of the stimulus ; it is equally strong with maximal and minimal excitation .
I have tested this point in various ways:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) On the excised heart which has ceased contracting spontaneously , but is still quite capable of being artificially excited to beat .
( 2 .
) On the intact heart reduced to a state of quiescence by vagus stimulation .
( 3 .
) On intact hearts which beat slowly in consequence of cooling and other circumstances ; the stimulations were applied during the quiescent period intervening between two spontaneous contractions .
2 .
The condition of fibrillar contraction or heart-delirium induced in the ventricles of excitable hearts by the application of interrupted currents and other means can be recovered from even after long periods ( three-quarters of an hour , \amp ; c. ) under the combined influence of artificial respiration , rhythmical compression of the ventricles , and the administration of pilocarpin .
When the excitability of the cardiac mu sole has been much depressed ( by pilocarpin , certain phases of exhaustion , \amp ; c. ) , the application of interrupted currents does not induce fibrillar contraction , but merely a series of rhythmic beats in the case of a quiescent organ , or an acceleration of the rhythm already present in a heart which is beating spontaneously .
3 .
The spontaneous rhythmic power possessed by the terminal parts of the great veins , the auricles , and the ventricles , seems , conditions at least , to be myogenic .
4 .
In the intact heart the auricles and ventricles do not beat in virtue of their own independent rhythmic power , but in obedience to 1888 .
] On the Rhythm of the Mammalian Heart .
impulses reaching them from the terminal or " ostial " parts of the great veins .
For though both auricles and ventricles possess an inherent rhythmic tendency , the ostial parts of the great veins possess a higher power of spontaneous rhythm , and hence dominate the rhythm of the whole heart .
The rapidly recurring contractions arising in the ostial regions are propagated over the whole organ ; the more rapid rhythm of the ostial parts supersedes and renders latent the less rapid inherent rhythm of the auricles and ventricles .
In support of this view there can be adduced many facts .
Among others\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The independent rhythm of cthe auricles and ventricles appears to be decidedly slower than that of the terminal or ostial parts of the veins .
( 2 .
) Slight heating of the ostial part of a great vein ( e.g. , the termination of the vena cava superior ) causes a .marked acceleration in the rhythm of the whole heart , while a similar heating of the ventricular wall causes very little change , or ( more 'Commonly ) none at all .
Weak faradic and galvanic currents induce similar results in this respect .
( 3 .
) In the dying heart the power of spontaneous rhythmic contraction survives longest in the ostial parts of the veins .
This is analogous " to What obtains in the hearts of cold-blooded animals , where the greatest vitality is exhibited by the sinus venosns , the part possessed of the highest spontaneous rhythm , e. , #the leading or dominant part of the organ .
5 .
The normal sequence of the ventricular contraction upon the auricular contraction in the intact heart is essentially , determined by nervous influences .
It is not dependent on\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The distension of the ventricles with blood pnmped in from the auricles .
( 2 .
) The mechanical relations normally obtaining 'between the auricles and ventricles through the medium of the auriculo-ventricular valves and the chordae tendineee ; or ( 3 .
) The occurrence of an electrical change ( current of action ) in the auricular muscle as one of the .phenomena of its contraction .
6 .
The nervous influence determining the ventricular-sequence is probably of an intermittent character .
7 .
The propagation of the contraction within the walls of the auricles and ventricles is not dependent on ?
the action of sthe nerves lying near the surfaoe of these parts .
The contraction continues to be propagated quite well when the surface ( e.g. , of the ventricles ) has been washed with , strong ammonia .
8 .
In the auricles at least , the ordinary beat is not the result of a 208 Prof. J. A. Me William .
[ May 17 , simultaneous motor discharge from a nerve centre to all the muscular fibres ; the contraction is , on the other hand , a progressive process passing over the auricular walls in a wave-like fashion .
9 .
A reversal of the normal sequence of the heart 's contraction can be induced and kept up for a considerable time by applying to the ventricles a series of single stimulations ( e.g. , induction shocks ) at a rate somewhat more rapid than that of the spontaneous rhythm of the organ .
Y , 6"Inhibition of the Mammalian Heart " By John A. Mo William , M.D. , Professor of the Institutes of Medicine in the University of Aberdeen .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. .
R.S , Received May 3 , 1888 .
The following conclusions are based upon a* long series of experiments performed upon the cat , dog , rabbit , rat , hedgehog , and guinea-pig , the cat being the animal commonly used .
The animals were anesthetized , usually with chloroform ; artificial respiration was kept up ; the thorax and often the pericardial sac were laid open , and the action of the heart was examined ' with the aid of the graphic method , { Section af the Vagif The results of section of both vagi vary according to the conditions obtaining at the time the nerves are cut\#151 ; according to the amount of controlling influence exercised by the* medullary cardio-inhibitory centre upon the heart , When the cardio-inhibitory centre is inactive , section of the vagi causes no appreciable change in the heart 's action .
On the other hand , section of the nerves* at a time when the controlling influence of the medullary centre is acting to a decided extent , is followed by very pronounced results\#151 ; by an increase not only in the rate of the cardiac beat , , but also in the contraction force of both the auricles and the ventricles .
There is a marked augmentation in the strength of the beats ; the change in the energy of the auricular contractions is usually more extensive than that occurring in the case of the ventricles , Stimulation of the Vagus Nerve , The latent period of vagus stimulation varies remarkably in different conditions ; there is often a period of many seconds before the heart stands still .
When the vagus nerve is stimulated so as to slow the heart , it is usually seen that the inhibitory influence is not of maximal intensity at its first manifestation , but goes on increasing for some time .

