OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Sir John Hawkshaw , civil engineer , was born at Leeds in 1811 , and was educated at the Grammar School of that town .
After serving a pupilage to an engineer of large practice in Yorkshire , he went to South America for a few years to superintend some large copper mines , and soon after his return succeeded George Stephenson as engineer to a railway between Manchester and Leeds .
This led to a further connexion with the railways which afterwards expanded into the great group called the " Lancashire and Yorkshire " system , and he soon took a position as one of the most eminent railway engineers in the country .
After he established himself in London , his practice extended to other branches of engineering , and about 1856 he succeeded Mr. J. M. Rendel in directing the construction of the great Harbour of Refuge at Holyhead .
He made , with the sanction of the Government , extensive alterations of the original design , and , in consideration of his important services on the work , he received in 1873 the honour of knighthood .
Among other large works of his in Great Britain maybe mentioned docks in London , Hull , and Fleetwood ; a main drainage system for Brighton ; waterworks for Dublin ; important improvements in the drainage of the Fen districts ; the foundations of the great iron forts at Spithead , and the tunnel , 4^ miles long , lately formed under the Severn .
He also devoted much attention to the proposed great tunnel under the Straits of Dover , and considered he had favourably solved the question from an engineering point of view .
But , subsequently , he doubted the expediency , on grounds of national policy , of forming such a connexion between the two countries , and withdrew his support from the scheme .
He is best known to Londoners by his extension of the South Eastern Railway from London Bridge to new termini at Charing Cross and Cannon Street , a very difficult and expensive work , cutting through the heart of London , and requiring twro large new bridges across the Thames .
And though artistic critics doubt whether this has contributed , like the Thames Embankment , to the embellishment of the Metropolis , there can be no question that it has been of immense benefit to the inhabitants ; and Sir John always held that aesthetic considerations were out of place if they interfered with works of public utility .
b He was also largely engaged on foreign works .
Towards the end of 1863 he visited Egypt , at the request of the Viceroy , to report on doubtful points respecting the Suez Canal , and his emphatic recommendations led largely to its completion .
He executed a great ship canal in Holland , made designs for navigating the First Cataract of the Nile , and had to do with railways and other large works in Russia , India , the Mauritius , and Brazil .
He was one of the most active members of the Institution of Civil Engineers , and occupied the position of President in the years 1862 and 1863 .
Sir John was not merely a railway maker ; he paid much attention to general principles , and some that he strongly advocated may be mentioned .
One was the allowance of greater latitude in regard to gradients .
The earlier engineers thought that almost any cost should be incurred for the purpose of getting a road as flat as possible ; and for very heavy traffic to be carried very cheaply this is always true .
But Sir John urged that in a vast number of cases it was preferable to adopt steeper gradients , and so to save original outlay .
He relied on the mechanical skill of engineers to work such gradients effectively and safely , and contended that this principle would lead to a great extension of the system in districts where it would be otherwise impracticable .
It is remarkable how his predictions have been verified .
In the days of George Stephenson , 1 in 264 was thought very steep , and 1 in 100 was said to require stationary engines .
Now 1 in 100 is thought nothing of , and 1 in 40 or 50 is allowed for important lines , while for mountain districts we find gradients of 1 in 4 , or even steeper still .
Another principle he advocated was that , when the traffic became very large , railways could never be worked to their full advantage unless special lines were allotted to special speeds , thus separating the quick from the heavy traffic .
It was a long time before practical railway managers appreciated this idea , but the pressure of increased traffic has lately forced it on them , and it is now being extensively carried out by duplications of many great lines .
In 1875\#151 ; 76 Sir John filled the honourable office ( succeeding Professor Tyndall ) of President of the British Association , and gave his opening address at Bristol on the 25th August , 1875 .
He began by saying:\#151 ; " Past Presidents have already discoursed on many subjects\#151 ; on things organic and inorganic\#151 ; on the mind , and on things , perhaps , beyond the reach of mind ; and I have arrived at the conclusion that humbler themes will not be out of place on this occasion .
" I propose in this address to say something of a profession to which my lifetime has been devoted\#151 ; a theme which cannot , peidiaps , be expected to stand so high in your estimation as in my own , and I iii may have some difficulty in making it interesting ; but I have chosen it because it is a subject I ought to understand better than any other .
" Half the address was devoted to the history of works of a nature corresponding to those of modern civil engineering , in a long series , comprising those of the Egyptians , the Assyrians , the Peruvians , the Hindoos and Mahomedans , the Chinese , the Carthaginians , the Greeks , and the Romans , down to the present day .
Modern engineering works were then alluded to , particularly steam navigation and the electric telegraph ; and in regard to the speaker 's own special subject , railways , he dwelt more on economical than constructive views .
He pointed out in a striking manner the great benefits that they had conferred on mankind .
He said:\#151 ; " Railways add enormously to the national wealth .
It may be safely assumed that the railways in the British Islands now save the nation a much larger sum annually than the gross amount of all the dividends payable to the proprietors , without at all taking into account the benefit arising from the saving in time .
The benefits under this head defy calculation , and cannot , with any accuracy , be put into money .
But it would not be at all over-estimating this question to say that in time and money the nation gains at least what is equivalent to 10 per cent , on all the capital expended .
" He argued from this that even where a railway would only yield a small dividend to its proprietors , it was to the national interest that it should be carried out by Government aid .
He also alluded to the subject of safety in railway travelling:\#151 ; " It is well that the elements on which this depends should be clearly understood .
It will be thought that longer experience in the management of railways should go to ensure greater safety , but there are other elements of the question .
It depends on the perfection of the machine in all its parts ; it depends also on the nature and quantity of traffic ; and , lastly , on human care and attention ; for so many of these accidents as arise from the fallibility of men will never be eliminated until the race be improved .
" He , however , gave some remarkable statistics to show how minute the risk of accident really is , and quoted the saying of a former President of the Board of Trade that he felt safer in a railway carriage than anywhere else .
" And , " added Sir John , " he was not far wrong .
" He took interest in geology , and published , in 1842 , some good descriptions of fossil footsteps and fossil trees that had been discovered in works under his care .
He further presented to the Manchester Geological Society , in 1843 , a somewhat elaborate theoretical paper on the Origin of the Deposits of Coal .
He was elected into the Royal Society , by the propositions of c iv many eminent Fellows , cn the 7ih of Jnne , 1855 .
He served three times on the Council , namely , in 1868-69 , in 1874-75 , and in 1881-82 .
In his later years he gave up active practice ; hut he retained his faculties to the last , and he died , at the ripe age of 80 , on the 2nd of June , 1891 .
W. P. Peter Martin Duncan was horn at Twickenham in 1824 , and received his early education in the Grammar School of that village , once the home of Walpole and of Pope .
He was afterwards placed for a short time in a school in Switzerland .
On his return to England , he entered the Medical Department of King 's College , London , in 1842 .
Here he received his formal scientific training , taking his degree of M..B .
London in 1846 , and in 1849 he was elected an Associate of his College .
After acting for a time as assistant to a doctor at Rochester , he removed to Colchester , where a practice had been purchased for him .
Here he resided for many years , and published his first scientific essay , which consisted of " Observations on the Pollen-tube , its Growth , Histology , and Physiology " ( 1856 ) .
But he did not at Colchester secure much time for original research , for most of that which was left him by his profession was occupied by work in connexion with the municipality .
During his residence he filled the office of Mayor , thus proving that he had won the confidence of his fellow-townsmen , while the admirable arrangement of the local Museum , which under his direction was reorganised upon lines far in advance of the iime , is a sign of his interest in the educational institutions of the town .
About 1860 he took a practice at Blackheath , when he was able to spare more time for scientific work , devoting himself to the study of fossil Corals ; and , as his interest deepened in the problems which they presented to him , he was led to abandon the lucrative prospects offered by his profession , and to devote himself entirely to original research .
In this he was no doubt encouraged by the reception accorded to his first palaeontological papers , which were read in 1863 , and gained for him recognition as a most able palaeontologist .
In the following year he was appointed one of the honorary secretaries of the Geological Society , and .
two years later , he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society .
\#166 ; After leaving Blackheath , he ; settled near Regent s Park ; but he was not long allowed to remain in retirement , for in 1870 he was called to the Chair of Geology at King 's College , and a Fellowship followed in 1871 .
Shortly afterwards he accepted also the Professorship of Geology at Cooper 's Hill , both of which appointments he held till his death .
He resigned the Secretaryship of the Geological Society in 1870 , after a seven years ' tenure of office , and iu-1872 he was elected a Vice-President , and President in 1876 and V 1877 .
In 1881 he was awarded the Wollaston Medal , the highest honour which the Geological Society can bestow .
Though he was most closely connected with the Geological Society , he was an influential member of other scientific bodies ; he served on the Council of the Royal Society from 1876 to 1878 , was President of the Geological Section of the British Association in 1879 , and of the Microscopical Society from 1881 to 1883 .
On turning to Professor Duncan 's scientific work , one is impressed by the enormous amount he accomplished , and the wide range of his interests and influence .
His first paper ( 1856 ) was botanical , and he long retained his attachment to this subject , his last paper on veget- ' able physiology being published in 1874 ; while , still later on , he worked out the parasitic Algae which he discovered in some Silurian Corals .
His first important work was the series of five memoirs on the Fossil Corals of the West Indies .
The subject was full of difficulties ; the living Corals of the area were but little known , so that the materials for the comparison of the recent and fossil faunas were quite insufficient .
But Professor Duncan attacked the subject with characteristic energy , and his sound common sense enabled him to avoid many a pitfall ; his memoir was certainly a most valuable addition to our knowledge of the later Tertiary Corals .
This work was followed by a long list of memoirs , in which he describes the Coral faunas ( especially the Cainozoic ) of England , Australia , Tasmania , India , Java , Arabia , and Malta .
His " British Fossil Corals " is probably one of the best contributions published by the Palteonto-graphical Society ; being so much more modern in its method , and more thorough in its treatment , than the work to which it was issued as a supplement .
But though Professor Duncan 's interests were probably at first rather zoological than geological , he soon became absorbed in the line of work which he had been led by circumstances to select .
He soon realised that the description of the anatomical structure and the determination of the systematic position of a fossil did not constitute the sole duties of a palaeontologist ; with him these were but preliminary to the consideration of the affinities of faunas and their bearing on the physical geography of the past .
He was a palaeontologist in the truest sense of the word\#151 ; not a morphologist who happened to study extinct forms , but a geologist who used fossils as a petrologist uses minerals .
Hence his early work on the West India Corals commenced by a detailed study of their conditions of fossilisation , and closed by a discussion of their evidence as to the Cainozoie physiography of the Caribbean region ; similarly , his later studies of the European Corals led to his striking paper on " The Physical Geography of Western Europe during the Mesozoic and Cainozoic Periods elucidated by their Coral Faunas .
" vi In his later study of the Echinoidea , he commenced with those in beds the Corals of which he had already examined , among the most remarkable being those from South Australia , which he described in a series of papers dating from 1864 to 1887 .
It was apparently his interest in the origin of this fauna , with its mixture of Cretaceous and Cainozoic genera , that led him to take up the Indian Echinoids , which , in conjunction with Mr. W. Percy Sladen , F.L.S. , he monographed with such detail and care .
He studied with especial interest the Echinoids of the Cenomanian , and by the aid of the small collections of the Rev. W. P. Holland , in Sinai , and of Dr. Carter , in South Arabia , he gradually built up the connexion between the European fauna and that of Northern India .
By his comparison of those of the Peninsular and Extra-Peninsular areas he demonstrated the existence of the land-barrier that stretched across India , and away to the south west , of which such important use has been made in recent controversy .
His views on geographical distribution were original , and had been carefully matured ; his lecture on " The Formation of the Main Land Masses " showed that he did not accept the views of the permanence of oceans and continents , a subject upon which he was competent to speak with authority .
His paper on " The Fauna of the Alpine Lakes " probably dealt the most serious blow ever struck to the theory of the glacial origin of the Swiss lake-basins .
But though Professor Duncan did not regard morphology as the highest end , he did not by any means neglect it ; thus our knowledge of the perignathic girdle of the Echinoids and its value in classification we owe mainly to him ; while his remarkably suggestive and original essay on the structure of the ambulacra of the regular Echinoidea , perhaps his most masterly piece of work , has gained the highest praise even from men opposed to his views .
In addition to his contributions to palaeontology , he has done much in zoology ; he wrote a series of papers on the anatomy of the Temnopleuridae , Saleniidae , and other groups of the Echinoidea , and described , amongst others , the Madreporaria of the " Porcupine Expedition , the Ophiurids and Corals of Mergui , and , in conjunction with his constant collaborator , Mr. Sladen , the Echinodermata from Greenland .
Two of his most valuable works are " The Revision of the Madreporaria , " and his " Revision of the Genera and Great Groups of the Echinoidea .
" The former was issued in 1885 , and consisted of diagnoses of every genus of Coral ( excluding the Rugosa ) , and of a classification which has not yet been supplanted .
His revision of the Echinoidea made a great advance in our knowledge of every order .
The application of his own discoveries on the ambu-1 acral structure enabled him to bring the Palechinoidea from chaos into order , and to replace the artificial arrangement of the Diademavii tidse by a natural classification ; his previous detection of the fundamental differences between the pits of Temnopleurus and the fossettes of TemnecUnus gave him the clue to the arrangement of that group ; and his substitution of positive for comparative diagnoses m may recent genera has greatly aided the comparison of the fossil and deep-sea types .
By these two revisions alone Professor Duncan has earned the gratitude of every palaeontologist and zoologist , and has given a firm basis for future work .
They are indispensable works of reference to every student of these groups .
In addition to the Corals and Echinodermata , Professor Duncan made some contributions to the study of the Protozoa and Sponges while his clearness as a teacher led him to undertake a good deal of lecturing and popular literary work ; thus he edited the six volumes of 'Cassell 's Natural History , ' and , amongst others , wrote a primer of physical geography , a volume of biographies of the 'Heroes of Science , ' a paper on Voltaire 's attitude to geology , and edited recent issues of Lyell 's ' Student 's Elements .
' To his first love , the Corals , he proposed to return on the conclusion of his revision of the Echinoidea ; he commenced work upon a large Indian collection , and planned a supplement to his revision of the Madreporaria , in which he intended to discuss recent criticisms and incorporate subsequent progress .
But it was not to be .
He was smitten with disease , and , after a long and painful illness , quietly passed away on the early morning of the 28th of May .
The fine , keen sense of humour , which remained unblunted almost to the last , the genial kindness with which he was ever ready with help , especially to younger men , united with the recognition of his sterling worth and sound judgment , gained him wide popularity and esteem .
Henry Martyn Jeffery was the only son of Mr. John Jeffery , of Gwennap , Cornwall , a parish situated about midway between the towns of Redruth and Penryn .
He was born on January 5 , 1826 , at Lamorran , near Truro , on the banks of the River Fal , at the rectoij of his maternal grandfather , the Rev. W. Curgenven , who married the sister of the distinguished Orientalist and missionary , the Rev. Henry Martyn , B.D. , the Senior Wrangler in 1801 .
Mr. Jeffery was also related to the family of the Rev. Malachy Hitchins , Vicar of St. Hilary , near Marazion , the comparer of the " Nautical Almanac , " under Dr. Maskelyne , from 1767 to 1809 , and one of the observers of the transit of Venus at the Royal Observatory in 1769 .
Mr. Jeffery always referred with a natural pride to these two well-known mathematical members of his family .
The early years of Mr. Jeffery were mostly spent at his father 's home at Gwennap , but from the age of seven to fourteen he was a pupil at Vlll the Falmouth Grammar School .
On leaving this school , in 1840 .
he exhibited undoubted signs of considerable mathematical and classical ability so much so that he offered himself as a tutor in a private gentleman 's family .
The writer of this notice has seen a copy of his letter containing a list of the subjects which he considered himself competent to teach , and from it we may gather that he was really an intelligent youth with more than usual precocity .
Fortunately for himself , he was , at the advice of some friends , sent in 1841 to the Grammar School at Sedbergh , Yorkshire , where he was trained by the Rev. J. H. Evans , a late Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Here he remained until 1845 .
In October of that year he entered as an undergraduate at St. John 's College , but soon after migrated to St. Catharine 's College , graduating as B.A. in 1849 in the Mathematical Tripos as Sixth Wrangler , and in the Classical Tripos in the Second Class .
He proceeded to the degree of M.A. in 1852 , and in that year he was adjudged the special distinction of bracketed first Tyrwhitt Hebrew Scholar .
Soon after taking his degree , Mr. Jeffery accepted the post of Lecturer in the College of Civil Engineers at Putney , and in 1852 he was selected by the President and Fellows of Corpus Christi College , Oxford , to fill the office of Second Master of Pate 's Grammar School , at Cheltenham .
Sixteen years after , on the resignation of the Rev. Dr. Hayman , in 1868 , he was appointed to succeed to the vacant Headmastersbip , an office which he retained with success until his retirement in 1882 .
Many of his pupils have acknowledged their indebtedness to Mr. Jeffery for their general success in life , some of whom have attained high distinction at the Universities , and in various competitive examinations for admission into the public service .
Although , while at the Cheltenham Grammar School , Mr. Jeffery 's official time was more especially devoted to the classical department , it is as a pure mathematician that his name will be most remembered .
Shortly after he permanently settled in Cheltenham he commenced the long and continuous series of investigations in pure mathematics which have enriched the pages of the ' Quarterly Journal of Pure and Applied Mathematics , ' the ' Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society , ' the 'Reports of the British Association , ' and other scientific journals .
His most important papers have been on pure analysis and analytical geometry , especially on the classification of class-cubics , both in plane and spherical geometry .
Instalments of the similar classification for class-quartics have also been published .
He had been for some time engaged on the continuation of this work .
The titles of a few of his numerous papers will give a sufficient indication of the general character of his investigations :\#151 ; " Two Theorems in Permutations and Combinations , and a Theorem in Conix gruencies " ; " The Spherical Ellipse referred toTrilinear Coordinates " Cubics of the Third Class with Triple Foci , both Plane and Spherical " ; " Spherical Class Cubics with Double Foci and Double Cyclic Arcs " ; " On Sphero-Cyclides " On the Identity of the Nodes of a Nodal Curve of the Fourth Order with those of its Quartic and Sextic Contravariants " ; and " On the Genesis of Binodal Quartic Curves from Conics .
" It appears to have been Mr. Jeffery 's intention to prepare a text-book on his favourite subjects .
Some progress was made in the preparation of such a work , and he was looking forward with considerable interest to the publication of a treatise which he hoped would prove useful to the student of the higher mathematics .
Only last summer , while the writer was enjoying his hospitality , Mr. Jeffery exhibited to him a huge quantity of mathematical manuscript , beautifully written out for the press , in the preparation of which all his recent leisure hours had been devoted .
He was anticipating with evident enthusiasm the prospect of an early completion of his labours in this branch of pure mathematics by the production of a text-book ; but , alas !
his wishes can never be reah ised , for the small portion of the work prepared for the press exists only as a fragmentary record of his mathematical talents , and of the studious activity of his life to the end .
His last original paper was communicated to the London Mathematical Society only a few weeks before his fatal illness , and it was read at the meeting of the Society on November 12 , nine days after his decease .
In addition to his mathematical work , Mr. Jeffery has occasionally been occupied in other fields of labour , mostly in classics , archaeology , and topographical history .
In 1853 he wrote , as a coadjutor with Dr. E. R. Humphreys , on classical composition in Greek iambics and Latin prose .
On his retirement from Cheltenham Grammar School Mr. Jeffery , who was never married , took up his residence at Falmouth , partly that he might be in a convenient locality to undertake the management of a considerable amount of house property inherited from his father , and partly on account of the comparatively mild winter climate of his native county .
Here he identified himself with the active management of several local scientific institutions , especially of the Royal Institution of Cornwall , at Truro , and the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society , at Falmouth , in both of which he had filled the office of Vice-President , and was a valued contributor to their journals .
His paper on the " Early Topography of Falmouth , " in the ' Journal of the Royal Institution of Cornwall , ' is a most important contribution to the local history of that part of Cornwall .
Mr. Jeffery was the Honorary Secretary of the new Falmouth Observatory , in which he has taken a great interest since its foundation .
Mr._ Kitto , the Superintendent , has remarked that he was much indebted to him for assistance in the initial difficulties of the mag .
netograph work , a department of the Observatory to which Mr. Jeffery paid a constant personal attention .
He also retained much affection for the Falmouth Grammar School , where he received his early education , and this he was always ready to show by his advice and pecuniary support .
His loss will be severely felt by all these institutions .
Mr. Jeffery w ; \gt ; s elected a Fellow of the Royal Society on June 3 , 1880 , but , owing to the distance of his residence from London , he rarely had an opportunity of attending the meetings .
It was , however , a great delight to him to spend a few weeks in London each year , and he usually chose the months of May or June , so that he might enjoy the pleasing association with his scientific friends at one of the annual conversaziones .
He also took great interest in the meetir gs of the British Association for the Advancemement of Science , at which he was a frequent attendant , and a contributor of papers .
For some years past Mr. Jeffery was troubled , more or less , with an internal complaint which occasionally caused him considerable personal inconvenience , and , latterly , he suffered from the effects of insomnia , but still he remained active to within a fortnight of his death , often walking from Falmouth to Truro , a distance of about nine or ten miles , without any apparent fatigue .
He was a great lover of long-walking exercise , and , even within a few weeks of his death , though in ill-health , he took a wearying walk of about twelve miles .
When the writer visited him in the past summer , Mr. Jeffery appeared to be in better health than usual ; but in the middle of October the disease became much aggravated , necessitating an operation , and , after a short illness , accompanied by much suffering , he gradually sank .
On the Saturday before his death he became partially unconscious , and on the Monday following wholly so , and in this condition he passed away , peacefully , on the morning of Tuesday , Kovember 3 , 1891 , in the sixty-sixth year of his age .
Three days afterwards his remains were interred in the family vault , with his father and mother , at Gwennap , the country home of his early youth .
E. D. Henry Bowman Brady , LL. D. , was born in 1835 .
He was the second son of Henry Brady , of Gateshead , who for fifty years carried on an extensive practice as surgeon in that town .
He was educated at the schools of the Society of Friends , at Ackworth , and at Tulketh Hall , near Preston .
His father was a naturalist , and instilled into his son a love of nature , which was fostered at his first school ; but the influence that shaped bis mature career came from the colony of naturalists which has had its headquarters at Newcastle-on-Tyne for several generations .
The names of Bewick , Alder , Albany and John Hancock , and others are those of men whom Newcastle has contributed to the roll of English naturalists , and the Brady family would seem to have been thoroughly permeated with the local enthusiasm for the study of natural history .
On leaving school , in 1850 , Brady was apprenticed to the late Mr. Thomas Harvey , pharmaceutical chemist , of Leeds , and in 1855 he entered upon business for himself in Newcastle-on-Tyne .
His conspicuous ability soon gained for him the support of the medical profession and the public , and he laid the foundation of the very extensive business in wholesale and retail pharmacy and scientific apparatus subsequently conducted by the firm of Brady and Martin .
During the twenty-one years of his business life , Mr. Brady was closely identified with the Pharmaceutical Society , and he became the President of the British Pharmaceutical Conference in 1872 .
He was for many years on the Council of the Pharmaceutical Society , and greatly contributed to the progress of that body by developing the scientific education of pharmaceutical chemists .
His more direct contributions to science were in the form of researches in natural history , especially on the Foraminifera .
His first publication seems to have been a contribution , in 1863 , to the British Association , as a report on the dredging of the Northumberland coast and Dogger Bank ; his last was a paper which appeared only a short time ago , on the minute organisms with which his name will always be connected .
Between these two he published a large number of researches , including a monograph on Carboniferous and Permian Foraminifera , an exhaustive report on the Foraminifera of the " Challenger " Expedition , as well as monographs on and , and on Polymorphina , in which he was joint author with Mr. W. K. Parker , F.R.S. , and Professor T. Rupert Jones , F.R.S. The report on thp Foraminifera is embodied in two quarto volumes , one containing 814 pages of text , and the other 114 plates , which possess great artistic merit .
The bibliography of the subject alone occupies forty-six pages of the first volume .
The illustrations of such works are of much importance , and the author gave to this department of his work the fastidious care of a skilled draughtsman .
By these works he not only established a position both in this country and abroad as one of the highest authorities on the subject , but , what is of more importance , largely advanced our knowledge .
Every one of his papers is characterised by the most conscientious accuracy and justice ; and though his attention was largely directed to classification and to the morphological points therein involved , his mind , as several of his papers indicate , was also occupied with the wider problems of morphological and biological interest which the study of these lowly forms suggests .
In 1874 he was elected a Fellow of this Society , and in 1888 served xn on onr Council .
In the same year the University of Aberdeen conferred upon him the degree of LL. D. , in recognition of his scientific work , and he also received from the Emperor of Austria a valuable gold medal , as a mark of his appreciation of the valuable assistance which Mr. Brady had rendered to the Hof-Museum .
He was a man of slight physique and delicate health , and in later years he was compelled to leave his business and seek refuge in warmer climates than our own .
In his travels he visited the United States of America , the Upper Nile , India , Ceylon , Japan , Java , Australia , New Zealand , and various islands of the Pacific Ocean .
His last journey was in the winter of 1890 , when , with some friends , he visited Cairo and ascended the Nile .
He was laid up at Cairo with oedema of the feet and legs , from which he never quite recovered , but the actual cause of his death , which occurred on the 10th of January , 1891 , was a rapid attack of pneumonia .
He accomplished an immense amount of work , which remains as a monument to his unwearied patience and industry .
His amiability won for him a large circle of friends , and he could have wished no higher tribute to his memory than that offered by Dr. Michael Foster , who wrote as follows in ' Nature , ' January 29th , 1891:\#151 ; " Science has lost a steady and fruitful worker , and many men of science have lost a friend and a helpmate whose place they feel no one else can fill .
His wide knowledge of many branches of scientific inquiry and his large acquaintance with scientific men made the hours spent with him always profitable ; his sympathy with art and literature , and that special knowledge of men and things which belongs only to the travelled man , made him welcome also where science was unknown , while the brave patience with which he bore the many troubles of enfeebled health , his unselfish thoughtfulness for interests other than his own , and a sense of humour which , when needed , led him to desert his usual staid demeanour for the merriment of the moment , endeared him to all his friends .
" The catalogues of the Royal Society show that , down to 1883 , Mr. Brady was the author of thirty papers and monographs .
He has bequeathed to the Society the very valuable portion of his library which relates to the study of the Protozoa .
This collection , which now forms a distinct section of the Society 's Library , and for the maintenance and increase of which he made provision , consists of some 150 volumes , including , besides many older works on the subject of great rarity and value , his extensive series of collected excerpt 'Memoirs and Papers relating to the Foraminifera , ' gathered , arranged , and annotated by him during many years of labour .
Xlll Sir George Edward Paget was born at Yarmouth in 1809 .
He was the seventh of seventeen children , of whom Sir James Paget , Bart. , F.R.S. , is the only survivor .
His early education was at the Charterhouse .
He was admitted at Caius College , Cambridge , in 1827 , and graduated in Arts as Eighth Wrangler in 1831 .
He was elected Fellow of his college in 1832 , graduated as M.B. in 1833 and as M.D. in 1839 , was elected physician to Addenbrooke 's Hospital in 1841 , and held the office for forty-three years , retiring in 1884 , when a marble bust of him was placed in the hospital , as a memorial of his long and valued services .
He represented the University of Cambridge on the General Medical Council from 1864 to 1869 , and was then\amp ; chosen President of the Council , from which post he retired in 1874 .
In 1872 he was appointed Regius Professor of Physic by the Crown , and held the office till his death .
He became Fellow of the $oyal Society in 1873 , and was made K.C.B. in 1885 .
He became Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians 1839 , was made Hon. M.D. Dublin 1867 , Hon. D.C.L. Durham 1870 , Hon. LL. D. Edinburgh 1871 , Hon. D.C.L. Oxford 1872 , and was President of the Meeting of the British Medical Association at Cambridge in 1864 .
His writings were " A Notice of an Unpublished Manuscript of Harvey " in 1850 ; the " Address as President of the Medical Association " in 1864 ; the " Harveian Oration " in 1866 ; and various papers in the medical journals .
He married in 1851 , and left several children .
He died in January , 1892 .
He was an excellent physician , and enjoyed large practice in and around Cambridge for many years .
He was a man of great ability and firm character , remarkably quick , , yet scrupulously accurate , truthful and very cautious , attentive to detail , wise in judgment , and earnest in purpose .
By his wisdom , watchfulness , and zeal he largely promoted the success of the Cambridge Medical School ; and by his love for his University and his rectitude of character he won the confidence of the men of Cambridge , who all regarded him with respect and affection , and rejoiced in the honour done him by the Queen and by various universities .
These qualities and his genial , kind manner gave him a large circle of warm friends .
Added to all this , his brightness and cheerfulness , his great stores of accurate information and his inexhaustible fund of anecdotes and stories , the relation of which in his precise and humorous style was most telling , and his fondness of social life made him a delightful companion .
He was a spare , brisk , active man , enjoyed good health , and continued conscientiously the duties of his professorship till , having entered his eighty-third year , he succumbed to the influenza in .
January last .
C M H Sir James Caird was the son of James Caird , of Stranraer .
He was born in 1816 , educated at Edinburgh High School and University , xiv and at an early period turned his attention to those agricultural and economic questions to which he eventually devoted the greater part of his life .
In 1849 appeared the first edition of his work on ' High Farming , ' and in the autumn of that year he visited Ireland , which was still suffering from the effects of the famine of 1846-47 , and reported to the Government upon the agricultural outlook in that island .
In the following year ' The Times ' obtained the services of Mr. Caird as commissioner to investigate the condition of agriculture in England .
His letters to that newspaper constituted the first general account of English agriculture since the time of Arthur Young , and they afterwards appeared in book form .
In 1859 he published an account of a visit to the Prairie Lands of the Mississippi Basin , directing attention to their extraordinary agricultural capabilities .
In 1857 Mr. Caird entered Parliament , and in the session of 18f|4 he at length carried a resolution in favour of the collection of agricultural4 statistics .
As a result of this vote the Agricultural Returns for Great Britain were commenced .
These have been issued annually since 1866 , and have proved of the highest value .
In 1869 he again visited Ireland and published a pamphlet on the Land Question .
After the great Indian famine of 1876-77 , Mr. Caird served upon the Commission which was appointed to enquire into the whole subject , and he afterwards embodied his own views and conclusions in his work , ' India ; the Land and the People .
' In 1882 Mr. Caird was knighted , being created K.C.B. In 1886 he joined Earl Cowper 's Irish Commission , and in 1889 , upon the formation of the new Board of Agriculture , Sir James Caird became a member of the Board , and was appointed a Privy Councillor .
One of his last undertakings was the preparation , at the request of the Royal Agricultural Society of England , of an account of the work of the Society during the first fifty years of its existence .
This valuable retrospect appeared in 1890 , in the opening number of the Third Series of the Society 's Journal , under the title of " Fifty Years ' Progress of Bi'itish Agriculture .
" Sir James Caird was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1875 .
He was a J.P. for Kirkcudbrightshire , and a D.L. and J.P. for Wigtonshire .
He died in London , February 9 , 1892 .
Colonel James Augustus Grant , C.B. , C.S.I. , died at Nairn on the 11th February .
He was born at Nairn in 1827 , " a son of the manse , " being the son of the parish minister .
After being educated at the Grammar School , and at Marischal College , Aberdeen , he obtained in 1846 a commission in the Indian Army .
In India he saw much hard service : was present at the two sieges of Mooltan , the battle of Gujerat , the relief of Lucknow , under Havelock , and XV his fingerless right hand bore testimony to the wounds he received .
But his claim to fame and public notice rests upon his work as an African explorer , at a time when a dark pall of ignorance still spread over most of Central Africa , and when the real sources of the Nile were still a mystery .
In 1859 Burton and Speak returned from the heart of Africa , after the former had discovered Lake Tanganyika , and the latter Lake Ukerewe , which he named the Victoria Nyanza , and rightly conjectured to be the main source of the Nile .
But the two allies quarrelled , and Grant from the first championed his friend Speak , and accompanied him in 1860 when he was commissioned by the Royal Geographical Society to lead an expedition for the exploration of the Victoria Nyanza .
Crossing to the mainland from Zanzibar , the travellers marched by Unyanyembe to the country on the west shore of the lake .
There they made friends with the King Rumanika , of whom , and the men who constituted the ruling population of the region , Grant often spoke in kindly remembrance .
He had a high opinion both of the country and of the people , and was wont to compare the chiefs , with their retainers , to the old chiefs of his native Highlands , who , like them , were cattle rearers and cattle raiders , proud of their descent , scornful of work , but hospitable and honourable after their own fashion .
In July , 1862 , the explorers reached their goal , the point where the Nile issues from the northern shore of the Victoria Nyanza , thus verifying Speke 's prediction .
They followed the Nile for 120 miles , when they were obliged to leave it , but they struck it again 70 miles lower down , and at length reached Gondokoro , in February , 1863 , where they met Samuel Baker , who had been sent out to assist them .
On their return to England the two explorers were received with enthusiasm .
Grant was given the Gold Medal of the Royal Geographical Society in 1864 , in which year he published an interesting and instructive work , under the title " A Walk across Africa ; " he also contributed to the account of the botany of the expedition , which fills a volume of the Transactions of the Linnean Society .
' In 1866 he was made a Companion of the Bath .
In 1868 he served in the Abyssinian campaign , and for his services was made a Companion of the Star of India .
He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1873 .
He was one of the simplest , most modest , and genial of men , and a universal favourite : a man of commanding stature , but with the kindliest expression of face .
After his return from Abyssinia , his time was mostly spent between London and Nairn .
His death has caused a sad blank in the large circle of his friends and acquaintances .
J. T. W.

