VIII .
" Observations on the Ovum of Osseous Fishes .
" By W. H. RANSOM , M.D. Communicated by Dr. SHABREY .
Received June 21 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author has communicated the details of observations of which the principal results were stated in a short paper published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society in 1854 , and of further researches on the structure and properties of the egg in several species of osseous fishes .
The methods employed in determining the functions of the micropyle , and in conducting the various inquiries entered upon are described .
The development of the ovarian ovum is traced in two species of Gasterosteus , and the yelk-sac is shown to increase by interstitial growth , and not by apposition of layers on either surface .
A minute description of the germinal vesicle and its contents is given , and the germinal spots are shown to be drops of a thick fluid substance , so apt to change their normally round form , and to vacuolate in their interior , that no perfectly indifferent medium was found in which to examine them .
The primitive yelk first fbrmed around the germinal vesicle is shown to differ in some of its chemical and physical properties from that of the ripe ovum ; it is solid , and does not consist of two distinguishable portions .
On its surface a yelk-sac was found in very early ova , but in the smallest eggs examined it could not be separated .
The reactions of a variety of albumen allied to myosin , which the author has found in variable proportions in the yelk of all the fishes , amphibia , and birds which he has examined , are described , the yelk of the salmon being selected for experiment .
This substance , to which the name albumen C. is given provisionally , is remarkable , in addition to its being easily precipitable by water in excess , for forming under certain conditions a solution in dilute nitric acid not coagulable by boiling .
Some account is rendered of the reactions of an acid compound of phosphoric acid with an organic substance also met with in the yelk of various animals .
The phenomena which follow impregnation prior to the commencement of cleavage are described , and are shown to be chiefly due to the influence upon the yelk of water which has passed through the yelk-sac .
Some variations which occur in this respect in different species of osseous fishes are described , and the ova of Gasterosteus are shown to be remarkable il having a viscid mucoid covering derived from the oviduct , which prevents the imbibition of water through the yelk-sac , so that it only then enters and forms a breathing-chamber after impregnation , when it passes through the aperture in the apex of the micropyle ; whereas in the eggs of salmon and in those of most other fishes , unimpregnated ova rapidly absorb water by the whole surface of the yelk-sac , the yelk contracting at the same time to form the breathing-chamber .
The concentration of the formative yelk , originally forming a thin layer over the whole yelk-ball , at the germinal pole is also proved to be due to the action of water , of which it requires a free supply sufficient to distend the yelk-sac , and to be independent of fecundation .
The contractions of the yelk are shown to be also independent of the action of the spermatozoids , and to be reactions following the entrance of water into the breathing-chamber ; and this not only as regards the rhythmic waves , which pass over the surface of the food-yelk , but also the fissile contractility of the formative yelk , by virtue of which it cleaves into irregular and unsymmetrical masses , and which the author conceives to be regulated only by the influence of the seminal particles .
The cortical layer of the food-yelk or inner sac , which is shown to resist in a remarkable manner osmosis , is found to be the rhythmically contractile part , although requiring for its manifestation the presence of acid foodyelk upon its inner surface .
Evidence is given to show that the contractile property of the yelk of both kinds requires , as an essential condition of its manifestation , the presence of oxygen in the surrounding medium , and that the food-yelk , while the rhythmic waves are passing over it , consumes less than does the formative yelk , while regularly cleaving after fecundation ; also that some product of oxidation is formed during these movements , which itself tends to check them , but which the author failed to determine the nature of .
Proofs are also given that a certain moderate rise of temperature increases the activity of these contractions .
Experiments are related which show the extreme limits the yelk will bear without destroying them , and the temperature at which commencing chemical change prevents further contraction .
The reactions of the substance of the yelk under the stimulus of galvanism are recorded , and evidence afforded that the food-yelk and the cortical layer alone are excited to contraction by it , attempts made to induce fissile or other contractions of the formative yelk resulting in electrolysis of that highly unstable substance .
Experiments made to ascertain the effects produced by poisonous substances on the contractions of the yelk are recorded , and the general fact ascertained of the extreme indifference to such agents of yelk protoplasm .
Carbonic acid , however , is shown to destroy the contractility rapidly , and chloroform to arrest it for a time .
The process of cleavage is described , and experiments are given which show that oxygen in the surrounding medium is an essential condition of its occurrence .
The influence of heat in quickening it , and the comparative indifference which it shows to the action of a galvanic current and to most poisons , are proved by a series of experiments , in which also the remarkable and destructive activity of carbonic acid is evidenced .
The author has considered the egg as a cell , its contents as a protoplasm , of which the firmer cortical layer is the equivalent of the primordial utricle , and the fluid food-yelk of the liquid contents , while the formative yelk is represented by the granular accumulation around the nucleus .
Two stages or grades of development of protoplasm are conceived to be represented by the two forms of yelk , and a parallelism is attempted to be drawn between them and the stages of development through which many amceboid organisms pass , and which the author believes to have a wide , if not a universal existence in the organic world ; the lower grade represented by the homogeneous food-yelk with a cortical layer , and possessed of rhythmic contractility , passing into the higher represented by the formative yelk of a granular structure , and possessed of a fissile contractile property only .

