488 Mr , A. F. Dixon .
On Development of the [ Mar. 21 , upward path must be via grey matter , and probably subsequently by one of the cerebellar tracts to the cerebellum .
In the cases of section of the brachial and upper thoracic posterior roots no degenerated fibres go into Golfs column , nor into Golfs nupleus , but there is very extensive degeneration of Burdach 's nucleus .
The upward path from the arm resembles therefore that of the leg in respect to its upward projection toward the cortex .
One of the chief results to which , in conclusion , we wish to draw attention is the following:\#151 ; That afferent impulses , both from the skin and from the muscles , especially the former , as related to the palm and sole , are necessary for the carrying out of " highest level " movements .
It may be argued against this assertion that in animals it is impossible to obtain definite information as to whether the animal can not or will not perform the movements the absence of which has been described .
From observations on tame animals we are , however , ourselves firmly convinced that there exists actual inability to perform the movements in question .
The reasons for this belief will be detailed in our fuller paper .
IX .
44 On the Development of the Branches of the Fifth Cranial Nerve in Man .
" By A. Francis Dixon , B.A. , M.B. , Chief Demonstrator of Anatomy , Trinity College , Dublin .
Communicated by Professor D. J. Cunningham , F.R.S. Received February 22 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The investigation , the general results of which are summarised below , was suggested to the author by Professor His , and part of the work was carried on in his laboratory in Leipzig in the summer of 1893 .
Models were constructed of the cranial nerves in embryos of different ages , and the branches present noted and measured .
These models were made up of glass plates , covered with varnish , on which were drawn the outlines of the sections and the positions of the nerves , \amp ; c. Detailed descriptions of the fifth nerve branches are given for five different stages of the human embryo , beginning with an embryo of four weeks , at which time merely the three main divisions of the nerve are represented , and ending with one of the eighth week .
The observations on the human embryo have been checked by further observations on rat embryos , and an almost complete correspondence between the two has been made out .
1895 .
] Branches of the Fifth Cranial Nerve Man .
489 1 Before the ophthalmic nerve is present in the embryo , a cellular cord stretches upwards and forwards from the Gasserian ganglion , and occupies the place of the future nerve .
This is easily demonstrated in the rat , and a similar condition appears to prevail in the human embryo .
2 .
Axis-cylinder processes grow out from the cells of the Gasserian ganglion into this cellular cord , and in this manner the ophthalmic nerve is formed .
8 .
The axis-cylinder processes increase in number , while the cells of the original cord become fewer and at the same time become disposed around the developing nerve .
4 .
The first formed ophthalmic trunk corresponds to the nasal nerve of the adult .
5 .
The frontal nerve is formed later , and the proximal part in man is united in a common trunk with the proximal part of the nasal nerve ; in the rat , however , the nerve3 in the first instance take separate origin from the Gasserian ganglion .
6 .
In mammals no outlying part of the Gasserian ganglion is present as a ganglion , either for the ophthalmic or nasal nerve , in the sense of a ganglion of a posterior nerve-root .
7 .
A single undivided Gasserian ganglion gives rise to all three divisions of the fifth nerve .
8 .
In the beginning of the sixth week all the important branches of the ophthalmic nerve of the adult are represented in the embryo .
9 .
The fourth and frontal nerves are from an early period closely connected .
10 .
The ciliary ganglion is first recognisable as a distinct cellular mass at the beginning of the sixth week .
11 .
The ciliary ganglion appears , in the first instance , to be more closely connected with the frontal and fourth nerves than with the nasal and third nerves .
12 .
' Later this ganglion shifts its position , and in the eighth week it has established the connections and assumed the situation that obtains in the adult .
18 .
The ciliary ganglion can in no sense be the homologne of a spinal ganglion .
14 .
The superior maxillary nerve appears as an independent branch of the Gasserian ganglion in the embryo of four weeks .
15 .
Soon the fibres of the superior maxillary nerve spread out horizontally , and are not collected so compactly into a single bundle as are the fibres of the other two divisions of the fifth nerve .
16 .
All the important branches of the superior maxillaij aie present in an embryo of seven weeks .
17 .
Meckel 's ganglion is present as a distinct cellular mass at t e beginning of the sixth week .
490 Messrs. G. W. Macdonald and A. M. Kellas .
[ Mar. 21 , 18 .
Meckel 's ganglion in the embryo is closely connected with the otic ganglion .
19 .
The inferior maxillary nerve is at first unbranched .
20 .
The first formed part of the inferior maxillary represents the inferior dental of the adult .
21 .
The lingual nerve is formed later , and is still very small in the fifth week .
22 .
Meckel 's cartilage presents a close relation to the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve , and seems to determine the directions which they take .
23 .
All the important branches of the inferior maxillary nerve are represented in the embryo at the beginning of the sixth week .
24 .
At the beginning of the sixth week the otic and submaxillary ganglia are present .
25 .
The chorda-tympani , the Vidian , and the nerve of Jacobson are not branches of the fifth nerve , inasmuch as they are not developed from it .
26 .
The chorda-tympani and Vidian nerves are branches of the facial , being developmentally derived from this nerve ; the nerve of Jacobson is in like manner a branch of the glossopharyngeal .
27 .
The origin of these nerves in man is precisely similar-to that of the corresponding nerves in the rat .
28 .
There is no direct evidence to prove that the cells of the accessory ganglia of the fifth nerve are derived directly from the cells of the Gasserian ganglion .
29 .
The sympathetic associated with the carotid artery in the adult is represented in the embryo by fibres chiefly derived from the trunk ganglion of the vagus nerve .
X. " Is Argon contained in Vegetable or Animal Substances ?
" By George W. MacDonald , M.Sc .
, and Alex .
M. Kellas , B.Sc. Communicated by^ Professor William Bams ay , F.R.S. Received March 19* 1895 .
At Professor Ramsay 's suggestion , experiments were undertaken to see whether argon could be obtained from nitrogenous vegetables or from animal tissues .
Method : A few grams of the substance , after drying if necessary , were ground to a fine powder , desiccated at 110 ' C. , until the weight was constant , and a nitrogen estimation performed by Dumas ' method .
It was supposed that any argon compound would be decomposed , when the argon would come off along with the nitrogen .
The gas was collected in a nitrometer over well-boiled concentrated

