III .
Extract of a Letter from Professor LANGBERG Of Christiania to Colonel SABINE , dated June 10th , 1855 .
Communicated by Colonel SABINE , V.P. and Treas .
R.S. " ' Of all the important results from the discussions of the British Colonial Observatory , the discovery of the direct action of the sun on the magnetism of the earth is certainly a fact of the highest interest , in opening quite a new field for investigation ; and few modern discoveries in this branch of science have interested me more than yours of the annual variation of the diurnal variation of declination .
It seems that M. Secchi of Rome has nearly touched at the same discovery , and I am indeed glad that the enormous quantity of calculations , which you are superintending , did not prevent you from publishing your results before the ripening fruit was plucked by another .
The first beautiful result of this annual variation is the explanation of the fact , which you have deduced from the observations at St. Helena and the Cape of Good Hope , that the horary variation of declination does not vanish in passing from the northern to the southern magnetic hemisphere , but only changes signs at the equinoxes .
I think every physicist will agree with you , that no thermic hypothesis will be able to explain this annual variation , but as you say ( Toronto , ii .
p. xix ) , it is 'obviously connected with , and dependent on , the earth 's position in its orbit relatively to the sun , around which it revolves , as the diurnal variation is connected with the rotation of the earth on its axis .
' But you have given no hint how this different position in its orbit can affect the magnetic condition of the earth , except so far as you suppose that the excentricity of the orbit is the reason that the total magnetic force is about 1 o2 greater at the perihelion than at the aphelion ( page xciii ) ; but even granted that this variation is the effect of the excentricity , it cannot be the cause of the annual variation of the declination , as this is of contrary signs in the two semiannual periods .
" I have thought that this annual variation might possibly be ex. plained by the following considerations , which I ( although with extreme diffidence ) shall venture to lay before you .
" As the recent magnetic observations have proved without doubt the direct magnetic action of the sun , or that the sun itself is a magnet , the sun must accordingly have magnetic polarity or magnetic poles .
Now in our ignorance of the causes of the magnetic condition of the heavenly bodies , I think it reasonable to connect it in some way with their rotation on their axes , and to assume that generally their magnetic axis will nearly coincide with the axis of rotation ; at all events , if these do not coincide , but include a small acute angle , the sum of the magnetic influences on a distant magnetic body during a whole rotation , will be nearly the same as if the magnetic poles were placed in the axis of rotation .
If we suppose a magnet E revolving about another S , the magnetic axis of E remaining parallel with itself , but not parallel with the axis of S ( as the earth around the sun ) , then the magnetic induction of S on E will depend on the relative position of both magnetic axes .
Moreover , if we only regard the mean of the magnetic induction of the sun on the earth during several rotations of both on their axes , we may approximately assume that the magnetic axis of both coincides with the 'axis of rotation , and compare their relative position during a whole revolution or annual period , with the magnetic variation in question .
Now , if a plane is laid through the sun 's axis parallel with the axis of the earth , this plane intersects the ecliptic in two points , whose longitudes are 286 ?
and 106 ?
, and has an inclination of 83 ?
'2 , both axes forming an angle of 25 ?
'8 .
Accordingly , the northerly prolongation of both axes will converge ( as in 1 and 2 ) 1 ~z 2N3 &lt; - .
4 .
0 _e Earth .
Sun .
Earth .
when the longitude is 2860 , or about seventeen days after the sunmmer solstice , and the southerly prolongation ( as in 2 and 3 ) when the longitude of the earth is 106 ?
, or sixteen days after the winter solstice .
About sixteen days after the equinoxes the axes are in the position 2 , and the radius vector forms the greatest angle with the above-named plane , viz. 83 ?
'2 .
It is therefore evident , that the greatest magnetic induction takes place at the two solstices , but of opposite character , as the north poles converge in one , and the south poles in the other semiannual period : the change takes place sixteen days after the equinoxes , exactly as you have found by observation , and I regard this circumstance as very important evidence for my hypothesis , although you have shown that it could also be accounted for by the fact , that all magnetic induction takes some time ere it attains its maximum .
" If the sun 's magnetic axis does not coincide with the axis of rotation , then I suppose we shall find , by more minute examination of the observations , that there exists also a small magnetic variation corresponding to the sun 's geocentric rotation , or 27'68 days .
" There seems also to be strong reason to suppose that Hansteen 's discovery about the annual periodic frequency of the aurora borealis , which has a marked maximum at the equinoxes , and even a more marked maximum at the solstices , is connected with the same cause .
"

