1891.1 Variations observed in the Rabbit 's Liver .
209 Pteroplatcea micrura , Myliobatis nieuhofi , Trygon , and Ttygon Ueekeri , the large wide-open spiracles .
In we know that the trophonemata pass into the spiracles ; but the singular distension of these orifices in the other species , in contrast to the smallness of the other apertures of the body , points to the conclusion stated .
4 .
The stomach in all cases that we have hitherto observed ( except in Trygon bleeTeeri , where the observation was lost ) is empty , small , and displaced ; while the colon ( spiral gut ) is full , large , and distended at the expense of other organs .
And this leads us to the conclusion that the foetal stomach is simply a channel through which the easily assimilable food passes to be absorbed by the spiral gut .
And of this conclusion the presence of the unchanged " milk " in the spiral gut of Myliobatis is corroborative .
5 .
Finally , as to the method of respiration of the foetus , no conclusion can as yet be arrived at .
It is probably safe to assume that the consumption of oxygen and the production of carbonic acid by the foetus are comparatively small , and that the respiratory exchanges are sufficiently carried out through the soft foetal skin where this comes in contact with the vascular trophonemata and uterine wall .
Hitherto , we have not found any special distribution of bloodvessels to the skin , in the foetus .
And in Pteroplatcea the manner in which , when two foetuses are present , the one is rolled up within the other , prevents contact of the inner foetus with the uterine wall , except at the snout , and where the trophonemata enter the spiracles .
We are indebted to Professor G. B. Howes for calling our attention to a short note by Dr. W. A. Haswell ( ' Proceedings Lmnean Society , Hew South Wales , ' vol. 3 , 1889 , pp. 1713 to 1716 ) on Urolophus , in which it is suggested that the extraordinarily long external gills of the foetus are concerned in absorbing matter which is supposed to exude from the blood-vessels of the uterine villi .
IV .
" On some of the Variations observed in the Rabbit 's Liver under certain Physiological and Pathological Circumstances .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , and Sheridan Delepine , M.B. , B.Sc. Received October 22 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) Under the influence of the natural stimulus of digestion , numerous changes are observable in liver cells .
In this we partly confirm and partly complete ( and add to ) the observations of previous investigators .
210 Variations observed i the Rabbit 's River .
[ Nov. 26 , 1 .
Some of them indicate the existence of a peculiar kinetic state , manifested by irritability and contracti , giving rise to variations the distribution of the mitomaof the cells .
The alternate enlargement and shrinking of the nuclei seem to point in the same direction .
The correlation between these phenomena and certain alternations in the contractility of the sphincter pupilloe still further strengthens this view .
2 .
During digestion , in addition to the dynamic state just alluded to , glycogen accumulates in the cells , and gradually fills up all the meshes of the mitoma .
This begins in the hepatic zone almost immediately after the beginning of a meal , attains its maximum from the third to the eighth hour , and gradually diminishes , till at the twelfth hour only a few granules are left in the hepatic , which is thus the first and the last to be infiltrated with glycogen .
Another evidence of chemical activity is given by the accumulation of a ferruginous pigment in the cells of the liver .
This begins to he well marked five hours after a meal ; it gradually increases , until at the twelfth hour it has attained its maximum , * after which it rapidly diminishes .
It is to be noted that the first effect of taking a meal is to cause a diminution of this iron-containing pigment in the liver cells .
There is , therefore , evidence that the signs of activity of liver cells occur in the following order:\#151 ; ( a. ) Alterations in the Size of the Meshes and in the Distribution of the Mitoma.\#151 ; This occurs very early , and continues till the eighth hour at least .
( \amp ; .
) Accumulation of some products which have been separated from the food and absorbed , but yet not assimilated ' } ' ( or utilised in the production of energy ) { glycogen ) .
This becomes marked also early after the taking of a meal , and attains its maximum between the third and eighth hours .
( c. ) Accumulation of some products which have been separated in the cell as a result of its special functional activity , bat as yet not expelled from it { iron-containing pigment).This attains its maximum at the twelfth hour .
It is evident that the first and the last of these signs are not necessarily under the dependence of the absorption of food .
On the contrary , the second is apparently one of the results of absorption .
It is , therefore , probable that , whilst the first and the third may be brought about by various stimulating agents , the second , being con*-^8 demonstrated by microcliemical reactions .
( It is , however , possible that part of the iron compounds set free by the splitting up of haemoglobin may not be revealed by this method .
) 1 " lliis is said with reference lo the bo ly taken as a whole .
1891 .
] Electromotive Phenomena of the Mammalian Heart .
211 nected with the taking of food , is hardly to be expected to be among the results of stimulation of starving cells .
In studying the effects of drugs it will be nseful to consider the relation of these various effects in order to understand the special mode of action of the agent employed .
By these observations we have also obtained indications of the ways in which cells can be placed in different states of activity , so that , by the administration of drugs at various times after a meal , we can study more accurately what accelerating , restraining , or otherwise modifying , influences the drug may have .
We have been driven to consider , incidentally , some other problems , such as the relations which exist between contractility and secretory activity , but such things cannot be considered fully in this communication .
V. " On the Electromotive Phenomena of the Mammalian Heart .
" By W. M. Bayliss , B.A. , B.Sc. , and Ernest H. Starling , M.D. , M.R.C.P. , Joint Lecturer on Physiology at Guy 's Hospital .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received October 23 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) Methods of Research.\#151 ; The heart being exposed , two points of its surface were connected by means of non-polarisable electrodes with the terminals of a capillary electrometer .
An image of the meniscus was thrown on to a moving photographic plate , on which were also recorded the contractions of the ventricle , a time tracing ( 8 or 100 per second ) , and in many cases the time of stimulation ( when artificial stimuli were used ) , or the period of excitation of the vagus ( when it was desired to slow the heart ) .
In nearly all experiments we used dogs .
We have also made experiments on the excised heart .
In these , the heart , immediately after the chest was opened , was placed in a warm moist chamber .
The wires of the electrodes and the tube going to the tambour recording the heart beats passed through holes in the sides of the chamber .
Results.\#151 ; As to the wave of negativity in the ventricle , we find that in animals whose hearts are in as normal a condition as possible the variation is always diphasic , the negativity at the base preceding that at the apex .
The result is the same whether the pericardium be intact or opened , or whatever points of the ventricular surface are led off .

