II .
An account of an invention for giving light in explosive mixtures of fire-damp in coal mines , by consuming thefire-damp .
By Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F. R. S. V. P. R. I. Read January ii , 1816 .
I HAVE already had the honor of communicating to the Royal Society an account of a safe light , which becomes extinguished when introduced into very explosive mixtures of fire-damp ; in this communication I shall describe a light which will burn in any explosive mixture of fire-damp , and the light of which arises from the combustion of the fire-damp itself .
The invention consists in covering or surrounding the flame of a lamp or candle by a wire sieve ; the coarsest that I have tried with perfect safety contained 695 apertures in a square inch , and the wire was yo of an inch in thickness , the finest 64o0 apertures in a square inch , and the wire was of an inch in diameter .
When a lighted lamp or candle screwed into a ring soldered to a cylinder of wire gauze , having no apertures , except those of the gauze or safe apertures , is introduced into the most explosive mixture of carburetted hydrogene and air , the cylinder becomes filled with a bright flame , and this flame continues to burn as long as the mixture is explosive .
When the carburetted hydrogene is to the air as 1 to 1i , the flame of the wick appears within the flame of the fire-damp ; when the proportion is as high as 1 to 7 , the flame of the wick disappears .
When the thickest wires are used in the gauze , it becomes strongly red hot , particularly at the top , but yet no explosion takes place .
The flame is brighter the larger the apertures of the gauze and the cylinder of 625 apertures to the square inch , gives a most brilliant light in a mixture of one part of gas from the distillation of coal , and 7 parts of air ; the lower part of the flame is green , the middle purple , and the upper part blue .
I have tried cylinders of 64oo apertures to the square inch , in mixtures of oxygene and carburetted hydrogene , and even in mixtures of oxygene and hydrogene ; and though the wire became intensely red hot , yet explosions never took place : the combustion was entirely limited to the interior of the lamp .
In all these experiments there was a noise like that produced by the burning of hydrogene gas in open tubes .
These extraordinary and unexpected results lead to many enquiries respecting the nature and communication of flame ; but my object , at present , is only to point out their application to the use of the collier .
All that he requires to ensure security , are small wire cages* to surround his candle or his lamp , which may be made for a few pence , and of which various modifications may be adopted ; and the application of this discovery will not only preserve him from the fire-damp , but enable him to apply it to use , and to destroy it at the same time that it gives him an useful light .

