III .
On the Rapidity of the Passage of Crystalloid Substances into the Vascular and Non-Vascular Textures of the Body .
" By HENRY BENCE JONES , F.R.S. In a Letter to the Secretary .
Received February 2 , 1865 .
DEAR DR. SHARPEY , -I am anxious that you should read to the Royal Society a short note containing the results of some observations I lately made on the rapidity of the passage of crystalloid substances into the vascular and non-vascular textures of the body .
It occurred to me that it might be possible to trace the passage of substances from the blood into the textures of the body by means of the spectrum-analysis , and with the assistance of Dr. Dupre some very remarkable results have been obtained .
Guinea-pigs have chiefly been used for the experiments .
Usually no lithium can be found in any part of their bodies .
When half a grain of chloride of lithium was given to a guinea-pig for three successive days , lithium appeared in every tissue of the body .
Even in the non-vascular textures , as the cartilages , the cornea , the crystalline lens , lithium would be found .
Two animals of the same size and age were taken ; one was given 3 grains of chloride of lithium , and it was killed in eight hours ; another had no lithium ; it was also killed , and when the whole lens was burnt at once , no trace of lithium could be found .
In the other , which had taken lithium , a piece of the lens , 1-th of a pin 's head in size , showed the lithilum ; it had penetrated to the centre of the lens .
In another pig the same quantity of chloride of lithium was given , and in four hours even the centre of the lens contained lithium .
Another pig was given the same quantity , and it was killed in two hours and a quarter .
The cartilage of the hip showed lithium faintly , but distinctly .
The outer portions of the lens showed it slightly ; the inner portions showed no trace .
To a younger pig the same quantity was given , and it was killed in thirty-two minutes .
Lithium was found in the cartilage of the hip ; in the aqueous humour ; distinctly in the outer part of the lens , and very faintly in the inner part .
In an older and larger pig , to which the same quantity was given , lithium after one hour was found in the hip and knee joints very faintly ; in the aqueous humour of the eye very distinctly ; but none was found in the lens , not even when half was taken for one trial .
Chloride of rubidium in a three-grain dose was not satisfactorily detected anywhere .
When 20 grains had been taken , the blood , liver , and kidney showed this substance ; the lens when burnt all at once showed the smallest possible trace ; the cartilages and aqueous humour showed none , probably because the delicacy of the spectrum-analysis for rubidium is very much less than that for lithium .
A patient who was suffering from diseased heart took some lithia-water containing 15 grains of citrate of lithia thirty-six hours before her death , and the same quantity six hours before death .
The crystalline lens , the blood , and the cartilage of one joint were examined for lithium : in the cartilage it was found very distinctly ; in the blood exceedingly faintly ; and when the entire lens was taken , the faintest possible indications of lithium were obtained .
Another patient took lithia-water containing 10 grains of carbonate of lithia five hours and a half before death : the lens showed very faint traces of lithium when half the substance was taken for one examination ; the cartilage showed lithium very distinctly .
I expect to be able to find lithium in the lens after operation for cataract , and in the umbilical cord after the birth of the foetus .
I am , yours truly , H. BENCE JONES .

