II .
" Tables of the Numerical Values of the Sine-integral , Cosineintegral , and Exponential Integral .
" By J. W. L. GLAISIIE , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor CAYLEY , LL. D. Received February 10 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) The integrals ^sin u eos r e--t du , du , du , called the sine-integral , cosine-integral , and exponential integral , were used by Schlomilch to express the values of several more complicated integrals , and denoted by him thus , -Si x , Ci x , Ei x ; the last function , however , is for all real values of x only another form of the logarithm-integral , the relation beinn Ei x=li e These functions have since been shown to be the key to a very large class of definite integrals , and several hundreds have been evaluated in terms of them by Schl6milch , De Haan , &amp; e. , so that for some tinme they have been considered primary functions of the integral calculus , and forms reduced to dependence on them have been regarded as known .
Considering , therefore , the large number of integrals dependent on them for their evaluation , and their consequent importance as a means of extending the integral calculus , it seemed very desirable that they should be systematically tabulated , the only values which have previously been obtained being those of Si x Ci , i x , Ei ( -x ) for the values x= 1 , 2 , ... 10 calculated by Bretschneider , and printed in the third volume of Grunert 's ' Archiv der Mathematik und Physik , ' and a Table of the logarithm-integral published by Soldner at Munich in 1806 .
The present Tables contain the values of Si , Ci , Ei x , Ei ( -x ) for values of x from 0 to 1 at intervals of '01 to nineteen places of decimals , for values of x from 1 to 5 at intervals of '1 , and from 5 to 15 at intervals of unity , to ten places , and for x= 20 to twelve places .
Also values of Si x and Ci x only for values of x from 20 to 100 at intervals of 5 , to 200 at intervals of 10 , to 1000 at intervals of 100 , and for several higher values to seven places ; besides Tables of the maxima and minima values of these functions , corresponding in the case of the sine-integral to multiples of wr , and in the case of the cosine-integral to odd multiples of , also to seven places .

