212 Prof. J. Tyndall on the Influence exercised [ Dec. 19 j bromine , * but not by iodine .
Finally , while hydrochloric and hydro I bromic acid in aqueous solution each resist decomposition when in$olate\lt ; in the presence of free oxygen , it is known that hydriodic acid andei s like conditions is rapidly destroyed.f This destruction , according t( i our experiments , is promoted by all the rays , but is much less activ .
behind red glass than behind blue .
It occurs also , but more slowly i in the dark .
Here we appear to have a phenomenon analogous to the oxidation p j the hydrogen of oxalic acid .
The question arises how far a preliminary dissociation of the constituent atoms of the molecule may influence the reaction .
It has beer j clearly shown by M. Lemoinef that hydriodic acid gas is completelj : dissociated by light ; but the same observer states that in aqueous | solution no such dissociation in sunlight can be demonstrated\#151 ; a fad observed also by M. Berthelot .
It may be , however , that the phe- j nomena of dissociation and oxidation under light may go on side by side , the presence of oxygen promoting the splitting of hydriodic \gt ; acid by its determining affinity .
In like manner it may be that in the decomposition of oxalic acid the oxygen plays a similar part , determining the dissociation of C204.H2 , and replacing the dissociated radicle C204 .
The analogy of chlorine , however , leads us to the belief that , in its relations to hydrogen under the influence of light , oxygen may be classed with that element ; but the reactions above noted would seem to indicate that , under these conditions , its affinity for hydrogen is inferior to that of either chlorine or bromine .
S We would note also the following known reactions which oecur in air and sunlight : ( 1 .
) The decomposition of arsenamine with formation of water and deposition of arsenic .
( 2 .
) The absorption of oxygen by and precipitation of sulphur from sulphuretted hydrogen ; \#151 ; reactions which , although occurring in thei dark , are accelerated by sunlight .
Y. " Note on the Influence exercised by Light on Organic Infusions .
" By John Tyndall , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received December 17 , 1878 .
Early last June I took with me to the Alps 50 small hermetically sealed flasks containing infusion of cucumber , and 50 containing .
* Br2 + H20=2HBr+0 .
t 2HI + 0 = I3 + H20 .
X " Annales de Chim .
et de Phys. , " [ 5 ] , t. xi .
S Under ordinary conditions the direct combination of oxygen and hydrogen gases does not occur in sunlight . .
178 .
] Light on Organic Infusions .
fpnip infusion .
Before sealing they had been boiled for five minutes , j the laboratory of the Royal Institution .
They were carefully jcked in sawdust , but when unpacked the fragile sealed ends of jout 20 of them were found broken off .
Some of these injured tsks were empty , while others still retained their liquids .
The 80 ubroken flasks were found pellucid , and they continued so throughout iie summer .
All the broken ones , on the other hand , which had tained their liquids , were turbid with organisms .
Shaking up the sawdust , which I knew must contain a considerable lantity of germinal matter , I snipped off the ends of a number of isks in the air above the sawdust .
Exposed to a temperature of 70 ' r C \#166 ; 80 ' F. , the contents of all these flasks became turbid in two or tree days .
*\#166 ; *1 The experiment was repeated ; and after the contaminated air had itered them , I exposed the flasks to strong sunshine for a whole immer 's day ; one batch , indeed , was thus exposed for several lccessive days .
Placed in a room with a temperature of from 70 ' \gt ; 80 ' F. , they all , without exception , became turbid with organisms , it ?
Another batch of flasks , after having their sealed ends broken off , as infected by the water of a cascade derived from the melting of h le mountain snows .
They were afterwards exposed to a day 's strong ij inshine , and subsequently removed to the warm room .
In three i ays they were thickly charged with organisms .
On the same day a number of flasks had their ends snipped off in the open air beside the cascade .
They remained for weeks trans-arent , and doubtless continue so to the present hour .
I do not wish to offer these results as antagonistic to those so learly described by Dr. Arthur Downs and Mr. Thomas Blunt , in he " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " for December 6th , 1877.* V Their observations are so definite that it is hardly possible to doubt heir accuracy .
But they noticed anomalies which it is desirable to lear up .
On the 10th of July , for example , they found 9 hours ' xposure to daylight , 3^ hours of which ^my were hours of sunshine , ufficient to effect sterilization ; while , on the 29th of July , " a very lot day , with much sunshine , " 11 hours ' exposure , " 9 of which were rue insolation , " failed to produce the same effect .
Such irregu-arities , coupled with the results above recorded , will , I trust , induce hem to repeat their experiments , with the view of determining the -rue limits of the important action which those experiments reveal .
* Yol .
xxvi , p. 488 .
VOL. XXVIII .
Q

