XXVII .
An Account of an Apptarance of L2ght , &lt; Zike a Star , seen latel3J in the dCark Part of the Moon , fie Thomas Stretton , in St. John 's Square , Clerkenwell , London ; with Remarks upon this Observafion , and Mr. Wilkinsvs .
Drawn up , andcommunicated by the Rea .
}3evil Maskelyne* , D. D. F. R. S. and idstronomer Royal .
Read July so , zy94 .
MR. VINCE , Fellow of this Society , having acquaintedme bg letter , early in April last , that a gentleman at Norwich had a month before seen a bright spot upon the dark part of the moon , and had made a little drawing of it in his pocket-book , which he promised to send to him , I immediately wrote a letter in answer to Mr. VINCE , to desire him to request the gentleman to send the drawing he had promised , and a full account of the phxnomenon .
Mr. VINCE accordingly wrote to the gentleman ilum-ediately , Mr WILLIAM WILKINS , arGhitect at Norwich , which produced the first of the foregoing letters , and addressed by Mr. WILKINS to him , giving a particular account of his observation , with a drawing of the ap pearance Sooll after , my relation Sir GEORGE BOOTH , Bart. with his lady , being on a visit at the Royal Observatory , upon my mentioning Mr. NVILKINS'S observation , Lady BOOTH said their servant , who is curious for a person in his situation , and fond of looking at the stars , had some time before seen something extraordinary in the moon .
Upon this I took occasiolz , ort the 28th of April , to question the marl abou-t it , taking care ; at the same time to direct my illquiries so as to give hiln no hint of what had been seen by Mr. lLKI .
NS. .
I immediately minuted down the information he gave meS wllicEl was as follows .
" Some time ago , about sis in the evening , the moon " not being a quarter old , he saw a light like a star , and as " large as a middle sized star , but not so bright , in the dark c ; part of themoon .
He conti-nued looking at it for a minute " or more , during which time it kept the same light , and he " then lost sight of it by going into the house .
He said he 6C thought it was not the present moon , viz. that which is now ' almost gane , and that it was no-t above seven weeks ago .
c ; He was not , howevver , certain !
whether it was three weeks or * seven weeks ago .
J I made a drawing of the moon before him , and desired him to direct me about forming the size of the crescent , and laying down the place of the star-like appearance in the dark part of the Moon , which slietch I have sulJjoined to this account .
( See Tab. XXI .
fig. .
) Lady BOOTH thought thevtime of the night , whenX he sat this appearance , was later , and rather seven oclock , for he mentioned it to her immediatelyafter .
Not doubting but this phnomenon , seen by THOMAS STRETTON , in St. Johrts Square , was the same as was seen by Mr. WILKINS at Norwichn and on the same night , I wished to ascertain the tinze more nearly by some local circumstances , depending on the place from which the-phnomenon was seen , arl.d the tops of the houses or chimnies over which it appearedt Accordinglys on the 2lst of May , I desired THOMAS STRE1flTON to stand in the same place he did when he saw the appearance , and poirt out to me the place of the sky where he had seen the moon with respect to the opposite house and chimnies over which she appeared .
With the help of a pocket corupa-ss and small woodell quadrant , I found the bearing of the place of the sky , which he pointed out to me , to be 80 ' west of the magnetic south , or 56 ' west of the true south m@ridian , and the altitude g4 ' .
Taking the moon 's right ascension from the nautical almanac for the 7th of WIarch , the day stated by Mr. WILKINS , WITh the bearing abovementioned and latitude of St. John 's Square taken 1 ' $ ' , I find the observation must have been made exactly at eight o'clock mean time , provide(l the bearing covlld be exactly depended upon X but as an uncertainty of a few degrees may be allowed therein , we may conclude that the observation was not far from eight o'clocl .
This agrees nearly with the time of Mr. WILKINS-'S observation , for lae seems to have lost sight of tlwe star on the dark part of the moon a little before eight owclock , mean time , at Norwicll , the correspondent time to which in St John 's Square , orl account of the di5erence of lueridians , would be five milautes soorser .
An error only of ten minutes in the time noted by Mr. WILKI-NS , and that deduced from the bearing observed in St. John 's Square , both takelltog@ there , will bring the observation in St. John 's Square to precede the time of the disappearance of the star-like appearance at S=orwich : and therefore the two observations agree as nearly together as can be expected from the circumstances ln which the observers were placed , and tize two observations mutually conlSrm each other .
The altitude of the moon at eight o'clock , by computation , is 41 ' , or 7 ' higher than that takerl with th6t quadrant ; which difference may be allowed for the error sucls an estimation is liable to , and affords no ground for argument against the observations belonging to the same phenomenon , and consequently is an additional confirmation of it .
In order to ascertain the time , and other circumstances relating to the phxnomenon , I made some inquiries of Mr. WIL_ KINS , by several letters , which he answered with much candour and exactness as appears by the extracts of his answers prefixed to this account .
M. VINCE , in his letter to me , giving me the first notice of this phznomenon , observed that Mr. WILKINS is an eminent .
builder , a sensible man , and by no means likely to be deceiered ; and adds , that the length of time during which he saw it , seems to preclude the possibility of any deceptior .
Mr. WILKINS himself relates that he is lozg sightedn and that he distinguishes very well the dark part of the moon , illuminated by a faint light , while she is young , which completes her circle .
The other person , THOMAS STRETTON , is a young man of sobriety and steadiness , and long sighted also .
I particularly mention these circumstances , to obviate an objection that has been made to these accounts , from the circumstance of the bright star in the south eye of the bull , called Aldebaran , having passed by the moon the same evening , and been eclipsed by the northern part of her disk .
I OW1Y it iS a singular coincidence of circumstances , that Aldebaran should the same evening pass behirld the luoon , in nearly the same track in which this star-like appearance was observed vIpon the dark part of the moon 's disc : but the two facts , considered as independent of each other , are not incolnpatible .
The appulse of Aldebararl to , and subsequent occtlltation by the moon 's dise , was predicted in the nautical almanac , and observed by many .
I obserared its eclipse at the moon 's dark limb at 6h 47t golt , and its emersion from the moon 's bright limb , at 7h 30o slr mean time , at Greenwich.* The appearance of the slzot of light upon the moon 's dark I)art , and its subsequent sudden disappearance at Norwich , happened near eight o'clockX and the observation of the star upon the mooll at Stv Joh-ri 's S-quare happened about the same time .
I would then ask the persons who make the objection how could two persons , at two distant places , see a star appear upon the dark part of the moon , at a considerable distance within its circumference , while it was really off it , especially as they w !
ere both long sighted ?
and particularly , how could the immersion be czbserved near eight ( ?
'clock , which really happened at SaB minutes past six , or above an hour before ?
If it be supposed that the persons saw Aldebaran after its emersiolo from the moon 's bright limb , th ?
.t is after half past seven , it becomes still more difficult to conceive , that a star , really on the bright side of the moon , shouldX by some illusion or optic fallacJr , cross that bright patt to appear upon t1 &lt; e dark part ; 1beSideS5 thiS SUPPOSition .
dOeS nOt aCCOunt fOr the SUdden diS-aPPeaRanCP Of the SX8r .
Mr. VINCE has lately inforrned me , that 11ehafl seen and corversed nvitll MrO WILKINS on t &gt; \#162 ; subject ; who ; expleessed himself to be certainS bothof the time , and place orl the dark part of the mc)on 's disc , where he saw the starlike appearance Withill t ; the cirCumference .
I shall make no conjectures on the cause to which this extraordinary phnomenon may be attributed ; but only remark , that it is probably of the same nature with that of the light seen of late years in the dark part of the naoon by our ingenious and indefatigabl.e astronomer , Dr. HERSCHEL , With his powerful telescopes , and formerly by the celebrated DOMIWIC CASSINI ; although this has been so illustrious as to have been visible to the naked eye , and probably equal in appearnc.e to a star of the third m.agnitude. .

