210 Election of Fellows .
[ May 3 , Here it was impossible that the heat which raised the temperature oi the body could be obtained from the bath , itself never hotter than the bodies of the boys before undergoing the experiment .
If the formation of heat was lessened so as exactly to meet the diminished loss by conduction and radiation , the heat'of the body would have continued at the same point ; but this was not the case , and thus it appears that the formation of heat cannot be suddenly lessened to such an amount .
Thus the increased heat of the body ensuing from a vapour-bath is certainly in part due to accumulation of heat , which under other circumstances is lost by evaporation and radiation .
Is all the heat imparted to the body by the vapour-bath to be accounted for in this way ?
Some part must , in the nature of things , be absorbed from the bath , and is evidenced in our experiments , the elevation being too rapid to be caused solely by an accumulation of heat in the body .
May 3 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. Lord Coleridge and the Right Hon. Sir Henry Bartle Edward Prere , K.C.B. , whose certificates had been suspended as required by the Statutes , were balloted for and elected Fellows of the Society .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair as follows:\#151 ; Prof. James Dewar , M.A. Sir Joseph Fayrer , M.D. , K.C.S.I. Rev. Norman Macleod Ferrers , M.A. Thomas Richard Fraser , M.D. Brian Haughton Hodgson , F.L.S. John W. Judd , F.G.S. " William Carmichael M'Intosh , M.D. Robert M'Lachlan , F.L.S. Prof. John William Mallet , Ph. D. Henry B. Medlicott , M.A. Henry Nottidge Moseley , M.A. .
Prof. Osborne Reynolds , M.A. William Roberts , M.D. Prof. James Thomson , LL. D. Prof. William Turner , M.B , ' The following Papers were read:\#151 ; 877 .
] On the Excitability of Motor Nerves .
tt Further Observations on the Modification of the Excitability of Motor Nerves produced by Injury/ ' By George J. Romanes , M.A. , F.L.S. Communicated by Prof. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received April 11 , 1877 .
In my former paper on this subject* I showed , among other things , at injury of a motor nerve is attended with a very marked and peculiar Iteration in its relative excitability towards the stimuli which are spectively supplied by closing and opening a voltaic circuit .
In the -esent paper I propose to detail the results which have been obtained r continuing this line of research ; and , in order to render them more tsily intelligible , I shall begin by briefly restating such of the previous isults as form the basis of the present ones .
It will be remembered , then , that my method of experimenting was as Hows .
Having pithed a frog and laid it on a frog-board in such a osition that one of the hind legs should hang over the edge of the board , divided the tendo Achillis , dissected out the gastrocnemius as far as its aint of origin , and removed the tibia just below the knee .
The exposed lough uninjured gastrocnemius was then laid with its flat surface on on-polarizable electrodes , in such a way that while one electrode supported le extreme tarsal end of the muscle , the other supported its extreme amoral end .
By means of a rheochord it was then ascertained what -rength of voltaic stimulus the muscle required to give its earliest esponse , ( a ) to the anodic t make , ( 6 ) to the kathodic make , ( c ) to the nodic break , and ( d ) to the kathodic break .
It will be remembered that , nder these circumstances , " the muscle is usually more sensitive to animal stimulation supplied by closure of the constant current when the imoral end rests on the kathode [ case ( 6 ) ] , than when this end rests on le anode [ case ( a ) ] .
Conversely , under similar circumstances , the astrocnemius is more sensitive to minimal stimulation supplied by oening of the constant current when the femoral end rests on the anode ; as ( c ) ] , than when this end rests on the kathode [ case ( d ) ] .
In view of le other facts of electrotonus the present ones are of interest , because , s the sciatic nerve enters the gastrocnemius near the femoral end of the inter and then spreads out its peripheral ramifications as it advances , a the experiments just mentioned one electrode is in almost immediate ontact with the nerve-trunk where it enters the muscle , while the other lectrode supports the part of the muscle that contains only peripheral * Proc. Roy .
Soo .
, May 4 , 1876 .
t Throughout this paper I shall designate the direction of the voltaic current h*ough the gastrocnemius by employing the terms " anodic " and .
" kathodic with eference to the femoral end of the muscle , i. e. where the nerve-trunk first enters the inter .
Thus , for instance , " anodic make " means closure of the current in a direction lesoending from the femoral to the tarsal end of the gastrocnemius .
Q 2 Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ May 3 nervous elements .
It is therefore to be expected , upon the theory o ; electrotonus , that the muscle under these conditions should prove itsel most sensitive to the closing excitation when the nerve-trunk rests 01 the kathode , and most sensitive to the opening excitation when the nerve-trunk rests on the anode ... ... ... ... .
" If the gastrocnemius of a frog be placed on non-polarizable electrodei in the position just described , and if care has been taken not to injure the attached sciatic nerve , I find that upon now dividing this nerve , eithe : near or just within the muscle , remarkable alterations ensue , not only , \amp ; \gt ; is already known , in the general sensitiveness of the muscle , but also , anc more particularly , in its relative sensitiveness to make and to break o : the current . . . .
For just as before cutting the normal sensitiveness of the muscle is greatest to the closing excitation when its femoral enc ( or uninjured nerve-trunk ) rests on the kathode , and most sensitive t\lt ; the opening excitation when this end rests on the anode , so , after tht general sensitiveness has been exalted by cutting , the exaltation shows itself in a far higher degree to the closing excitation when the femora end ( or severed nerve-trunk ) rests on the kathode , and to the opening excitation when this end rests on the anode .
" Having thus described the qualitative effects of nerve-injury in relatior to electrotonus , my former paper went on to describe also the quantitative effects ; but for my present purpose it is unnecessary to quote the latter For having observed that the particular effects of nerve-injury which 1 was investigating decreased with great rapidity after the first infliction oi the injury , I deemed it desirable to confirm the quantitative results already published by employing a more rapid method of varying the intensity of the voltaic current .
Accordingly , instead of using the rheo-chord , I introduced into the exciting circuit a rheostat consisting of a long TJ-tube charged with dilute solution of zinc sulphate .
Into each leg oi the U-tube there dipped a zinc rod of the same length as the tube .
These two rods formed part of the circuit , and as , by means of an appropriate mechanical arrangement which need not be described , they could be slid up and down the legs of the tube with great facility , the resistance offered by the tube could thus be varied with great rapidity .
In some other respects , also , I changed the method .
Instead of non-polarizable electrodes I used platinum plates measuring 4 millims. across .
Also , in order to estimate the maximum effect produced by nerve-injury in each of the four cases ( a ) , ( \amp ; ) , ( c ) , and ( d ) , I only made one comparative observation on every muscle I employed .
That is to say , if I wished to ascertain the maximum degree in which the excitability of a nerve is increased by section in any one of these four cases , I began by observing , in the uninjured nerve , the maximum number of Ohm 's units of resistance which I could afford to throw into the TT-tube , so as only just to procure a response to the make or break stimulus as the case might be .
Having noted this , I raised the sliding rods to the top of the TJ-tube , so as to g77 .
] Excitability of Motor Nerves .
213 irow the entire resistance of which the tube was capable , i. a greater distance than could possibly be required to cause minimal stimulation ' the next stage of the experiment .
I now cut the gastrocnemius through " its extreme femoral end y and the same instant that X did so I began ipidly to pass the sliding rods down the U-tube with one hand , while ith the other hand I closed and opened the current a number of times i as rapid succession as possible .
Having observed the point at which de responsive contraction was first given , and throwing away that par-icular muscle , I repeated the experiment with another muscle , and so on -never using the same muscle for more than one such observation , and so [ ways obtaining a record of the maximum increase of excitability imme-'iately .
after infliction of the injury .
The results of a number of experiments conducted on this improved lethod confirm , in the main , those previously obtained .
As before , how-ver , I encountered immense individual variations in different muscles , nd therefore , as before , I here select mean cases for quotation .
It is my necessary further to explain that in the appended Table the figures epresent the number of Ohm 's units of resistance which , with two Grove 's ells , I required to introduce in each of the eight cases before I procured ainimal stimulation .
Anodic Kathodic Anodic Kathodic make .
make .
break .
break .
Before cutting ... .
90,000 100,000 14,000 6,000 After cutting 140,000 300,000 195,000 14,000 These proportions , as already observed , agree pretty closely with those which I obtained by the method previously employed .
Such differences is exist are to be explained , partly by the superiority of the later method , ind partly by the fact that in the one series of experiments I employed Rana temporaria , while in the other series I employed II- \#151 ; the muscles of the latter species being less excitable than those of the former .
It is interesting to note that the chief difference in the two series of results has reference to the kathodic make , and that the difference is of such a kind as to render the degree in which the excitability is increased by section in this case more proportional to the degree in which it is increased in the case of the anodic break .
The two cases , however , are still very far from being numerically proportional , the degree of increase in the two cases being respectively represented by the numbers 1 : 3 and 1:14 ( nearly ) .
To explain this numerical discrepancy , therefore , we must still resort to the considerations set forth in my previous paper ( see vol.xxv .
pp. 12,13 ) .
I may here add that in some instances of maximum increase of excitability , due to nerve-injury , X have observed the kathodic make to 214 Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ May 3 rise from 80,000 to 600,000 Ohms , and the anodic break from 15,0001\lt ; 400,000 Ohms .
S 2 .
The rapidity with which this abnormal excitability declines afte the injury is , as already stated , considerable .
The following instances which refer to the anodic break , will serve to show this:\#151 ; Time .
Degree of Excitability in Ohms .
Before cutting ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
13,000 2 seconds after cutting ... ... ... ... ... 280,000 30 " 1 minute 2 minutes 3 " 4 " 5 " Another instance:\#151 ; 244.000 210.000 170,000 150,000 134.000 100.000 Before cutting ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 22,000 2 seconds after cutting ... ... ... .
300,000 30 " " ... ... ... ... .
230,000 1 minute " 180,000 2 minutes " 150,000 3 " " ... ... ... ... 130,000 4 " " 110,000 5 " " .
, 95,000 6 " " ... ... ... ... ... ... 80,000 7 " " 73,000 8 " " ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
67,000 9 " " ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
60,000 10 " " ... ... ... ... 54,000 1* " " ... . .
25,000 20 " " ... ... ... ... ... ... 13,000 I may here state that if the excised gastrocnemius be inserted under the skin of a freshly killed frog , and the latter be kept in a moist cool place , the nerve will sometimes retain its irritability for 48 hours or more\#151 ; the muscle , when placed on the electrodes at the end of that time , still continuing to respond to the kathodic make and to the anodic break .
But of course a very much stronger current is now required to produce these responses than was required to do so when the nerve and muscle were in a fresh state .
S 3 .
A strong voltaic current , or a strong induction-shock , allowed to break into an uninjured nerve-trunk , causes in the latter an increase of excitability analogous to that which is caused by mechanical injury .
Thus , for example , a momentary exposure of an uninjured sciatic to the fu|| \ 877 .
] Excitability of Motor Nerves .
215 length of a single Grove 's cell caused the excitability of the nerve jwards the breaking excitation , supplied through the same electrodes by small Daniell 's cell , to rise from 5000 to 100,000 Ohms .
Similarly a -rong induction -shock supplied by a single Grove 's cell with the secondary oil at zero , and thrown in between the electrodes from a small Daniell 's ell , caused the excitability of the nerve towards a closing stimulus sup-lied by the latter to rise from 40,000 to 185,000 Ohms .
In conducting hese experiments , I was not able to perceive that the direction of the trong or injuring current made any difference in the nature of the esults .
_ S 4 .
This concludes my observations so far as stimuli of minimal density are concerned ; and , at the suggestion of Dr. Burdon-San-lerson , I terminated this inquiry regarding the electrotonic condition \gt ; f injured nerves by substituting for voltaic stimuli of minimal ntensity , voltaic stimuli of minimal duration .
The method which [ employed in this part of the research was as follows The frog R. temjporarid ) having been prepared as already described in S 1\gt ; he duration of the voltaic stimulus was graduated by means of a leavy pendulum , which constituted one pole of the battery , and which , while swinging , made contact at the lowest point in its arc with the other pole .
The latter consisted of a fixed platinum wire placed vertically , and the contact was made with it by means of a pointed piece of metal attached to the moving pole and placed horizontally .
Thus by increasing or diminishing the distance through which the pendulum , or moving pole , was allowed to swing , a stimulus of any required duration could be supplied to the muscle interposed in the circuit .
As a battery I employed a single DanielFs cell ; and , lastly , I interposed a rheochord , a commutator , and a key .
Such being the apparatus , the course of any one experiment was very simple .
By means of the swinging pendulum , the uncut muscle was supplied with a stimulus of measured duration , which was then graduated down to the point at which the break of the current succeeded the make with a rapidity just sufficiently great to prevent the muscle from responding to either stimulus , ( a ) when the femoral end rested on the anode , and ( 6 ) when this end rested on the kathode .
These two durations having been noted , the nerve was cut through at the usual place , and the observations ( a ) and ( b ) repeated as rapidly as possible .
It was invariably found that in both cases a much shorter duration of the voltaic stimulus was required to produce minimal stimulation than had been required to do so before the nerve was cut , the intensity of the voltaic current , of course , being kept uniform throughout .
An apparent objection to this method of experimenting is apt to suggest itself , viz. that the make and the break must follow one another much too rapidly to admit of the observer being able to eliminate the effects of the former from those of the latter stimulus .
But , as a matter 216 Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ May 3 of fact , the desired elimination is performed by the nervo-muscular tissuf itself .
Tor it usually happens that a gastrocnemius presents some per ceptible difference in the character of its contraction , according as tht latter is given in response to make or to break of the current .
Therefore , by first ascertaining , with an ordinary key , the optical appearance whiel the responses to make and break respectively present , it is not difficul afterwards to recognize which of these appearances is presented by the response to rapidly succeeding make and break stimuli , and so to determine which of these rapidly succeeding stimuli is the one to which the response is given .
Now I found in this way that , by making the duration of contact sufficiently brief , the nerve , whether or not injured and ir whichever direction the current was allowed to pass , only responded to the closing stimulus .
Therefore , by choosing a strength of current which in each of the cases ( a ) and ( 6 ) before nerve-injury , was just sufficient^ strong to elicit a response when the voltaic stimulus was of t duration ic the one case and t ' duration in the other , I was sure that in each of the two cases the response which I obtained was given to the closing , and not to the opening , excitation .
Having noted the values of t and t\ I divided the sciatic just where it enters the gastrocnemius , and then shortened the duration of contact down to the point at which , in each of the two cases ( a ) and ( b ) , the muscle again only just responded to the stimulus .
Let these durations be respectively represented by T and T\ As before , I ascertained that the responses had exclusive reference to the closing excitation ; bo that , by recording the values of t , t ' , T , T ' , I was able to obtain for responses to stimuli of minimal duration representative numbers , such as those in the former Table , which have reference to stimuli of minimal intensity .
It is only necessary further to state that , as different gastrocnemius muscles exhibit considerable variations in the degree of their natural irritability towards voltaic stimuli of short duration , and as for my purposes it was desirable to obtain a physiological , as distinguished from a physical , basis whereon to institute my comparisons , in the case of each muscle I began by graduating the intensity of the current down to that point at which the duration of contact required to produce minimal stimulation before nerve-injury was the same as it had been in my previous experiments .
Or , in other words , by appropriately varying the intensity of the current to suit the degree of excitability manifested by each particular muscle before injury , I was able , notwithstanding the differences in excitability presented by different muscles , to render t a constant .
When this was done , however , t ' , T , and L were all found more or less variable in different muscles\#151 ; as , of course , we should expect from the analogous case of responses to stimuli of minimal intensity .
I therefore tabulated the results yielded by twenty gastrocnemius muscles , and then calculated the average duration of contact which in each of the cases ( a ) and ( ) be- I fore cutting , and ( a ) and ( 5 ) after cutting , was required to cause minimal 377 .
] Excitability of Motor Nerves .
Emulation .
It is the averages so obtained which are rendered in the Mowing tabular statement of results:\#151 ; Anodic make .
Kathodic make .
'Rpfnrp *00533 sec. .00311 sec. *00439 sec. .00117 sec. A ff at . .
XJLJ- L C/ J. vUbtlilg .
... ... * Concerning these results it is only necessary to observe that there is a olerably close parallel between them and those which were previously btained by employing stimuli of minimal intensity .
That is to say , in he case of the anodic make the increase of excitability due to injury is , oughly estimated , in the proportion of about 3 : 5 , and this whether such ncrecise is estimated by employing stimuli of , or stimuli f graduated duration ; and similarly in the case of kathodic make , hough the proportions here yielded by the two methods are not quite so .qual as in the other case .
But this general parallelism between the quantitative results yielded by the two methods in the case of both the losing excitations serves but to render more conspicuous the difference u the results yielded by the two methods in the case of the anodic opening ixcitation ; for while in the first of the two methods , viz. that in which ( timuli of minimal intensity were employed , it was found that after injury he excitability of a nerve towards the anodic-break stimulus is greater ban it is towards the anodic-make stimulus , such is not found to be the ; as when , as in the second of the two methods , these two stimuli are made to follow one another in very rapid succession .
I can only explain his fact by supposing that , for the breaking excitation to be fully effectual , a certain interval of time is required for the nerve to become polarized by the passage of the voltaic current ; and , therefore , that , in my experiments with currents of minimal duration , a response to the anodic make was always given when a shorter duration of the current was employed than that which was required to produce a response to the anodic break* .
S 4 .
In conclusion , I may state that the period of latent stimulation does not appear to be perceptibly affected by nerve-injury .
* How much shorter I was not able to ascertain , from the fact that the contraction due to the make and that due to the break , when they both occur together , become so blended that the eye is not able to analyze them with sufficient precision to decide at what point the anodic-break contraction first asserts itself .
Hence we must rest satisfied with the general statement , that the minimal anodic-break stimulus is in some unknown degree of longer duration than the minimal anodic-make stimulus ; and this even after the susceptibility of the nerve to the former stimulus is so enormously augmented by injury as , from the other method of experimentation , we know it to be ,

