January 12 , 1854 .
The LORD CHIEF BARON , V.P. , in the Chair .
Commander Kay , R.N. , was admitted into the Society .
A paper was read , entitled " On some New and Simple Methods of detecting Manganese in Natural and Artificial Compounds , and of obtaining its Combinations for ueconomical or-other uses .
" By Edmund Davy , Esq. , F.Rt .
S. , M.R.1.A .
&amp;c. Received December4 , 1853 .
In this paper ' the gowing importance~ of manganese ince ts discovery , and its extensivedistribution in Nature are noticed .
Manganese ischiefly found combined withoxygen , but itsoxides are commonly mixed with those of iron , and though different methods of separating them have been recommended , yet no very simple or unobjectionable test for manganese seems to be known .
Two methods for detecting manganese are recommended , viz.1 .
The pure hydrated fixed alkalies , potash and soda , and especially potash .
2 .
Sulphur .
With regard to the first method .
Though the compound Cha .
meleon mineral made by strongly heating nitre or potash and peroxide of manganese together , has long been known , yet it appears hitherto to have escaped observation , that potash seems to be a more delicate test of manganese than any other known substance .
The use of potash in this way is simple and easy ; it is employed in solution ; equal weights of the alkali and water form a fluid well-adapted for the purpose ; different metals may be used in the form of slips on which to make the experiments , but a preference is given to silver foil , as it is less acted on by alkalies than platina , and is more readily cleaned .
A slip of such foil , about two or three inches in length and half an inch wide , answers well .
Solids , to be examined for manganese , are finely pulverised ; fluids require no preparation ; the smallest portion of either is mixed with a drop or part of a drop of the alkali on the foil and heated by a spirit-lamp ( for many experiments a candle affords sufficient heat ) , when on boiling the alkali to dryness and raising the heat , the characteristic green manganate of potash will appear on the foil .
The delicacy of the alkali as a test thus applied , will be obvious on using the most minute portions of manganese ores in fine powder , and the author 's son , Dr. E. W. Davy , readily detected manganese in a single drop of a solution containing one grain of solid sulphate in ten thousand grains of water .
The presence of other oxides do not appear to impair the efficacy of this test .
A strong solution of hydrate of soda in water , used in a : similar manner , affords an excellent test for manganese , little inferior in delicacy to potash , but the latter is shown to be preferable .
Carbonate of soda has long been regarded as one of the most delicate tests of manganese , especially if aided by a little nitrate or chlorate of potash , but that carbonate is much inferior as a test for manganese to potash or soda , requiring a far higher temperature to form the manganate of soda , and the aid of oxidizing substances , as nitre and chlorate of potash , which are quite unnecessary with those alkalies .
Borax , too .
in point of delicacy is not to be compared with the fixed alkalies as a test for manganese .
The author is of opinion that the fixed alkalies in solution and silver foil will form a valuable addition to the agents employed by the mineralogist and chemist in the examination of minerals , ores , &amp;c. 2 .
Sulphur .
If a little flowers of sulphur be mixed with about its own bulk of the common peroxide of manganese , and exposed on a slip of platinum foil to a red heat , sesquioxide , sulphuret and sulphate of manganese will be formed , and by continuing the heat for a short time , an additional quantity of the sulphate will be produced from the sulphuret .
On treating the mass with water and filtering the fluid , a solution of sulphate of manganese will be obtained which will yield a white precipitate with the ferrocyanide of potassium , without a trace of iron .
Similar experiments may be made with any manganese ores , or with substances known or suspected to contain manganese .
The quantity of materials operated on may be increased or diminished at pleasure ; but if increased , the heat should be continued a little longer , to decompose any remaining sulphuret , and thus add to the quantity of sulphate formed .
In the same way manganese was detected in some minerals in which it was known to exist , and in others in which it had not been previously found ; likewise in soils and subsoils , in the ashes of coal and peat , in a number of pigments , and also in the ashes of different fabrics partially dyed brown by manganese .
Sulphate of manganese is formed , with sulphuret , when sulphurous acid gas is made by heating a mixture of peroxide of manganese and flowers of sulphur , even in close vessels .
The sulphate may also be more readily obtained , in quantity , by simply boiling a solution of common green vitriol in water for about a quarter of an hour or upwards , in contact with an excess of sesquioxide of manganese in fine powder , till the solution affords a white precipitate with ferrocyanide of potassium .
Chloride of manganese may also be formed in a similar manner by boiling an aqueous solution of protochloride of iron with an excess of sesquioxide of manganese , or it may be made with greater facility by dissolving this oxide in the common muriatic acid of commerce , taking care that the oxide be present in excess .
The brown sesquioxide of manganese may be made , not only by means of sulphur , but more readily and better by mixing the common peroxide with about one-third of its weight of peat mould , sawdust or starch , and exposure to a red heat in an open crucible with occasional stirring for about a quarter of an hour , or until the oxide acquires a uniform brown colour .
The sulphate and chloride of manganese being extensively used in dyeing , calico-printing and other arts , and in making the compounds of manganese , the simple means stated of forming those salts , free from iron ( it is presumed ) , are material improvements on the circuitous methods hitherto adopted .
The following was also read : Supplement to a paper " On certain Properties of Square Numbers and other Quadratic Forms , with a Table , &amp;c. " By Sir Frederick Pollock , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received Jan. 9 , 1854 .
In the original draft of this paper there was a suggestion that all the terms of the series 1 , 3 , 7 , 13 , &amp;c. [ there called the GradationSeries ] possessed the property that was exhibited as belonging to the odd number 197 : .
This was omitted in the cipy from some doubt whether it was universally true .
Since the paper was .
read that doubt has been : removed , and ; it turns out that the propeity belongs not only to : all the terms of the series 1 , -3 , 7 , 13 , &amp;c. , but to all odd numbers:whatsoever .
I am desirous to add to the paper this statement by way of supplement .
The property 'referred to may be thus enunciated:-Every odd number may be divided into square numbers ( not exceeding 4 ) whose roots ( positive or negative ) will : by their sum or difference [ in some form of the roots ] give every odd number from 1 to the greatest sum of the roots , which ( of course ) must always be an odd number .
Or the theorem may be stated in a purely algebraical form , thus:-If there be two equations a2 +b2+c2 +d 2n +1a -+b +c -+d =2r+ 1 , a , b , c , d being each integral or zero , n and r being positive , and ra maximum ; then if any positive integer ra ( not greater than r ) be assumed , it will always be possible to satisfy the pair of equations U'2 +xZ2 +y+z2=+ 2n +1w +x +y +z =2r'+I by integral values ( positive , negative or zero ) of w , x , y , z. I hope shortly to communicate a proof of the above theorem , independent of any of the usual modes of proving that every odd number is composed of ( not exceeding ) four square numbers .
Note.--The differences of the , roots of 197 were not fully stated in the paper , I add them here:197 has 7 forms of roots : 'f l4 , O1 , -0 ' j12,7,2 , 0 3 ... 7.17 .
21 -o i 12,7 , 2 , 3 7 , ... .3 ... ... ... ... ... . .
21 , 112 , 6 , 4 , 11 , 3 ... .
9 , 11 , 13 19 , 21 , 23 , 11,6 , 1,3 ... .
9 13 , 26 , , 25 , .
10 , 9 , 4 , 0 .
3 , 5 ... ... ... ... ... 15 ... 23 10,6 5 3,5,7 ... ... ... ... . .
15,17 ... ... ... ... ... 27 .
: _ 9 , -8 , 6,4 1 , 3 , 7 11 , 15 , 19 ... ... ... ... ,. .
27

