OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Dr. Parkinson was born in 1823 near Keighley , in Yorkshire , and died in 1889 at his residence in Cambridge .
His father died when he was a boy , and left to the widow the difficult task of bringing up a large family on a very narrow income .
Coming up to Cambridge in October , 1841 , he began his college life with an examination for a sizarship .
One of his competitors , who sat just in front of him at this examination , still remembers with wonder how he finished his papers long before the others , and how he sat at his ease with his back against the wall for a long time .
The success with which he thus began his college life was due to his own energy and talent , for as a boy he had but limited opportunities for study , and the same energy carried him on successfully throughout his life .
As a lad without independent means , it wais necessary for him to succeed , and accordingly he prepared to do his best at the final University examination .
He had most formidable competitors , and the contest therefore excited considerable interest at the time .
It was a very different thing from his first skirmish for the sizarship , and it was only after a hard fight that the Johnian was declared to be the Senior Wrangler .
The scene is described in a lively manner by a contemporary , an American who resided for five years in an English University .
Such descriptions are outside the object of the present memoir , but it helps us to understand the skill of the competitors to learn that the Senior Wrangler did more than two-thirds of the problems set in all the three problem papers .
Such at least was the current report of the day .
The Smith 's Prize examination was at that time so arranged that the element of speed did not enter into it to the same extent as into the Tripos .
The subjects of examination were in general beyond the reach of ordinary undergraduates .
Here the places were reversed , and Parkinson stood second in the list .
The contest , however , was well sustained , for in one paper the two first competitors obtained respectively 63 and 55 per cent , of the marks .
As soon as he had taken his degree he devoted himself to an academical life .
He had begun to take pupils even before his degree , and now continued to do so with great success .
Three of his pupils , viz. , Besant , Sprague , and Pinch , were the Senior Wranglers in the years 1850 , 1853 , and 1857 ; another pupil , the Right Hon. L. H. Courtney , M.P. , now Chairman of Committees and Deputy Speaker , was second in 1855 .
In 1864 he was appointed to be College Tutor .
It was here he VOL. xlv .
found his real vocation in life , and worked at it until 1882 .
He looked after his pupils in a business-like way , with mingled firmness and kindness , and they reciprocated by giving him their confidence .
Some of them have afterwards described how kindly he had assisted them with means , and by his influence started them successfully on their journey through life .
His remembrance of his pupils did not come to an end when they had passed from his care , but he and they .
remained ever mutual friends .
In this way he became well known outside the University , his name and influence attracting many students to his College .
When he married in 1871 , he expected , as the custom then was , that he would lose both his fellowship and tutorship .
But the College would not part with so valuable a tutor .
The Master and Seniors requested him to continue in his office of tutor though residing in his own house .
This was a compliment of which he was justly proud .
He continued to act as tutor for eleven more years , and was then elected a second time to a fellowship in his College .
He , however , did not retain the dividends of this office , but of his own fr^e will gave them up to the College .
Later on he gave \#163 ; 500 for the Church at Walworth , as this is the College mission belonging to St. John 's , not the only gift of his to this district .
Dr. Parkinson took his B.D. degree in 1855 , and became Doctor of Divinity in 1869 .
He acted as curate shortly after his degree in a neighbouring village , but the pressure of his other duties prevented him from taking much more active work .
He was on the Commission of the Peace for the borough for several years .
He was elected a Member of the Cambridge Philosophical Society in 1845 , a Member of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1853 , and a Pellow of the Royal Society in 1870 .
He married Miss Whateley , of Edgbaston Hall , in 1871 , , x , .
Dr. Parkinson was not a writer of many books .
His treatises on Elementary Mechanics and on Optics were published while engaged in tuition .
They do not contain any novelties , but were written because experience had shown him that students had found difficulties in these subjects , which he thought he could remove .
commercial success is therefore a good test of their exceUence , and of this there can be no doubt .
They came into general use m the University , and for several years they were very generally read .
They each passed through several editions .
They have , however , now even superseded by newer books with methods more adapted to the wants of the present day . .
_ . .
, .
\#166 ; Uil Dr. Parkinson took a prominent part m University affairs .
He was Examiner for the Mathematical Tripos in 1849 , and Moderator in 1852 .
He served as Senior Proctor in 1864 .
He was a Member of many syndicates appointed to consider weighty questions as they arose .
For example , he served on the important syndicate which iii in 1867 enlarged the scope of the Mathematical Tripos .
For three successive periods of four years each , beginning in 1866 , he was elected a Member of the Council of the Senate , his popularity in the University being shown by the large majorities by which he headed the poll at each of his two re-elections .
He was one of the first appointed Members of the General Board of Studies constituted by the Statutes of 1882 .
He was also elected by the " Colleges in common " in 1882 , and on the expiration of his period of service again in 1886 as one of their first representatives on the Financial Board of the University .
He was a Member , and for the most part Chairman , of the Board of Examination from its establishment in 1873 till within a few months of his death , when failing health compelled him to resign this and other oflices , the duties of which he felt himself no longer able to discharge .
In his public capacity his wise and prudent counsels , his able administration and management , his thoroughness and directness of purpose , were universally recognised .
In his private capacity a wide circle of friends will long remember his genial heartiness , his constant and kindly thoughtfulness .
E. J. R. b

