The Total Eclipse of the , April 16 , 1893 .
17 in all probability , due to the haze , or opalescence , in the air which prevailed at the time .
This haze , caused more by suspended and finely divided solid matter than by precipitated moisture , undoubtedly contributed to the general sky-illumination at the time of totality .
The actual gloom during this phase of the eclipse at Fundium was certainly much less than at Grenada in 1886 .
It must not be forgotten , however , that the altitude of the sun was very different on the two occasions .
At Grenada it was only about 19 ' : the amount of cloud was from seven to eight ( overcast = 10 ) at the time of totality , and much of the cloud was in the neighbourhood of the sun : whereas at Fundium the sun 's altitude was 52 ' , and the sky was of a bluish-grey colour and practically free from cloud .
The effect of these different conditions in the sky in the neighbourhood of the disc is seen in Mr. Forbes ' measurements when compared with those of Lieutenant Douglas , at Grenada .
The ten faixly concordant observations at Fundium give , as already stated , an average value of 0026 Siemens units at 1 ft. from the screen ; and the value observed by Lieutenant Douglas , 15 seconds after totality , with the same photometer , although with a different lamp and galvanometer , was 0'0197 light units .
-\lt ; The Total Eclipse of the Sun , April 16 , 1893 .
Report and Discussion of the Observations relating to Solar Physics .
By , T. Norman Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 17 , \#151 ; Read April 30 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The memoir first gives reports by Mr. Fowler and Mr. Shackleton as to the circumstances under which photographs of the spectra of the eclipsed sun were taken with prismatic cameras in West Africa and Brazil respectively on April 16 , 1893 .
These are followed by a detailed description of the phenomena recorded , and a discussion of the method employed in dealing with the photographs .
The coronal spectrum and the question of its possible variation , and the wavelengths of the lines recorded in the spectra of the chromosphere and prominences , are next studied .
Finally , the loci of absorption in the sun 's atmosphere are considered .
The inquiry into the chemical origins of the chromospheric and prominence lines is reserved for a subsequent memoir .
The general conclusions which have been arrived at are as follows :\#151 ; ( 1 ) With the prismatic camera , photographs may be obtained with VOL. lx .
C 18 The Total Eclipse of the Sun , April 16 , 1893 .
short exposures , so that the phenomena can be recorded at short intervals during the eclipse .
( 2 ) The most intense images of the prominences are produced bj the H and K radiations of calcium .
Those depicted by the rays of hydrogen and helium are less intense , and do not reach to so great a height .
( 3 ) The forms of the prominences photographed in monochromatic light ( H and K ) , during the eclipse of 1893 , do not differ sensibly from those photographed at the same time with the coronagraph .
( 4 ) The undoubted spectrum of the corona in 1893 consisted of eight rings , including that due to 1474 K. The evidence that these belong to the corona is absolutely conclusive .
It is probable that they are only represented by feeble lines in the Fraunhofer spectrum , if present at all .
( 5 ) All tho coronal rings recorded were most intense in the brightest coronal regions , near the sun 's equator , as depicted by the coronagraph .
( 6 ) The strongest coronal line , 1474 K , is not represented in the spectrum of the chromosphere and prominences , while H and K do not appear in the spectrum of the corona , although they are the most intense radiations in the prominences .
( 7 ) comparison of the results with those obtained in previous eclipses confirms the idea that 1474 K is brighter at the maximum than at the minimum sun-spot period .
( 8 ) Hydrogen rings were not photographed in the coronal spec-trum of 1893 .
( 9 ) D3 was absent from the coronal spectrum of 1893 , and reasons are given which suggest that its recorded appearance in 1882 was simply a photographic effect due to the unequal sensitiveness of the isochromatic plate employed .
( 10 ) There is distinct evidence of periodic changes of the continuous spectrum of the corona .
( 11 ) Many lines hitherto unrecorded in the chromosphere and prominences were photographed by the prismatic cameras .
( 1^ ) he preliminary investigation of the chemical origins of the chromosphere and prominence lines enables us to state generally that the chief lines are due to calcium , hydrogen , helium , strontium , iron , magnesium , manganese , barium , chromium , and aluminium .
Hone of the lines appear to be due to nickel , cobalt , cadmium , tin , zinc , silicon , or carbon .
( 13 ) The spectra of the chromosphere and prominences become more complex as the photosphere is approached .
( 14 ) In passing from the chromosphere to the prominences , some lines become relatively brighter but others dimmer .
The same line sometimes behaves differently in this respect in different prominences .
On some Palaeolithic Implements found Somaliland .
19 ( 15 ) The prominences mnst be fed from the outer parts of the solar atmosphere , since their spectra show lines which are absent from the spectrum of the chromosphere .
( 16 ) The absence of the Fraunhofer lines from the integrated spectra of the solar surroundings and uneclipsed photosphere shortly after totality need not necessarily imply the existence of a reversing layer .
( 17 .
) The spectrum of the base of the sun 's atmosphere , as recorded by the prismatic camera , contains only a small number of lines as compared with the Fraunhofer spectrum .
Some of the strongest bright lines in the spectrum of the chromosphere are not represented by dark lines in the Fraunhofer spectrum , and some of the most intense Fraunhofer lines were not seen bright in the spectrum of the chromosphere .
The so-called " reversing layer " is therefore incompetent to produce the Fraunhofer spectrum by its absorption .
( 18 ) Some of the Fraunhofer lines are produced by absorption taking place in the chromosphere , while others are produced by absorption at higher levels .
( 19 ) The eclipse work strengthens the view that chemical substances are dissociated at solar temperatures .
" On some Palaeolithic Implements found in Somaliland by Mr. H. W. Seton-Karr .
" By Sir John Evans , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , Treas .
and V.P.R.S. Received April 27\#151 ; Read April 30 , 1896 .
Although some account of his recent discoveries in Somaliland ( tropical Africa ) has already been given to the Anthropological Institute by Mr. Seton-Karr , and has been published in their Journal , * these discoveries seem to me to have so wide an interest , and such an important bearing on the question of the original home of the human race , that I venture to call the attention of this Society to them .
In the course of more than one visit to Somaliland for sporting purposes , Mr. Seton-Karr noticed , and brought home for examination , a number of worked flints , mostly of no great size , which he laid before the Anthropological Section of the British Association , at the meeting last year at Ipswich.f Although many of these specimens were broad flat flakes trimmed along the edges so as to be of the " le Moustier type " of M. Gabriel de Mortillet , and although the general facies of the collection was suggestive of the implements being of palaeolithic age , they did not afford sufficient evidence to enable a satisfactory judgment to be formed whether they undoubtedly belonged to the palaeolithic period .
* Vol. 25 , p. 271 .
f Eeport , 1895 , p. 824 .

