Observations on the Effects which take place from the Destruction of the Membrana Tympani of the Ear .
By Mr. Astley Cooper .
In a Letter to Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. , by whom some Remarks are added .
Read Feb. 6 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 151 .
] The case to which we owe the observations contained in this paper , is that of a youth , who at the age of ten was attacked with an inflammation and suppuration in the left ear , which continued discharging matter for several weeks ; and who after the space of about a twelvemonth had the same symptoms in his right ear , the discharge in both cases being thin and fetid , and conveying many small bones and particles of bones .
On probing the ears when the youth was about twenty years of age , it was found that the membrana tympani of the left ear was totally destroyed , and that but a small part of it remained in the right ear .
So free was the passage through both the ears , that the patient , by closing his nostrils and contracting his cheeks , could with ease force the air from the mouth through the meatus auditorius ; and yet what is most remarkable , the sense of hearing was by no means materially impaired by this imperfection ; especially in the left ear , where the whole of the membrane was dissolved .
The organ even retained a nice musical discrimination .
From this , and another similar instance here described , it is inferred that the loss of the membrana tympani , though it somewhat diminishes the power of hearing , does not absolutely destroy it ; and that probably where this membrane is wanting , its functions are supplied by the membranes of the fenestrse ovalis and rotunda , which being placed over the water of the labyrinth , will , when agitated by the impressions of sound , convey their vibrations to that fluid , in a similar manner as is done by the membrana tympani in its healthy state .
It is also intimated that the principal use of this membrane is probably to moderate the impressions of sound , and to proportion them to the powers and modifications of the organ .
Mr. Home , by whom this paper was communicated , has been pleased to add some additional remarks on the mode of hearing in cases where the membrana tympani has been destroyed ; from which we collect that this membrane appears to him to be chiefly intended to give an extended surface capable of communicating to the small bones the impressions made upon it , which a membrane would be incapable of doing unless it had a power of varying its tension to adapt it to different vibrations : and that this membrane being destroyed , there can be little doubt that the impressions of the vibrating air are produced on the stapes , from whence they are communicated to the cavity of the tympanum , and thence to the internal organ .
These remarks are added in order to reconcile the present case with the doctrine laid down by Mr. Home in his late paper on the organ of hearing .

