" On the Ova of Women and Mammiferous Animals , as they exist in the Ovaries before Impregnation .
' ' By Thomas Wharton Jones , Esq. Communicated by Robert Lee , M.D. , F.R.S. After reviewing the accounts given by various authors of the structure of the ovaries , corpora lutea , and ova in different tribes of any ?
mals , the author proceeds to the anatomical description of the ovaries in the human species , which he finds to correspond with those of the Mammalia generally , and to consist of a parenchyma or stroma , and an envelope or indusium , derived from the peritoneum .
The stroma immediately under the peritoneal envelope is condensed into the form of a tunic , to which the peritoneum closely adheres , and which has received the name of the tunica albuginea , or indusium proprium .
The vesicles of De Graaf are imbedded in this tunic , and are situated prin ?
cipally near the surface of the ovary : in the human species they are about one fifth of an inch in diameter .
The proper capsule of the Graafian vesicle is composed of two layers 3 the outer being thin , dense , and vascular ; the inner , thicker , softer , and more opaque .
The nucleus of the vesicle consists of , 1st , a granular membrane ; 2ndly , a coagulable granular fluid enclosed in the membrane 3 3rdly , a circular mass or disc of granular matter , termed by Baer the proligerous disc9 connected with the granular membrane on the prominent side of the vesicle , and presenting in its centre , on the side towards the interior of the vesicle , a small rounded prominence , called the cumulus , and on the opposite side a small cup-like cavity , hollowed out of the cu2c mulus ; and , 4thly , the ovum , which is contained in the cavity just mentioned .
The human ovum is so small as to be only just percep ?
tible to the naked eye , being the 150th part of an inch in diameter .
It has a soft transparent envelope of considerable thickness , and contains a substance composed of grains , adhering together by the intervention of a delicate mucous tissue .
At the inner surface of the envelope , the author discovered a delicate transparent vesicle , about the 900th partof an inch in diameter , and having on one side a small elevation , which , projecting among the grains composing the walls of the granular sac , fixes the vesicle in its place .
The author considers this vesicle as being analogous to that described by Professor Purkinje in the cicatricula of the immature eggs of birds , and which exists also in the ova of other oviparous animals , and is termed by Baer the germinal vesicle .
The author has also examined the ova of the cow , sheep , sow , rab ?
bit , rat , and mouse ; and has found in all these animals a germinal vesicle , differing in no essential particular from the human structure , and in size bearing a proportion to that of the ovum as one to six .
Although there is , at first sight , a considerable resemblance between the nucleus of the vesicle of De Graaf and the immature yelk of the egg of a bird , the author thinks , contrary to the opinion of Baer , that there is no real analogy between them ?
because , in the Graafian vesicle of the Mammalia there is no membrane surrounding its nucleus similar to the vitellary membrane of the ovum in birds , nor does this latter membrane appear first under the form of a gra ?
nular membrane .
The vesicle of Purkinje consists merely of a delicate capsule containing a fluid ; while in the minute ovum of Mammalia there are found all the essential elements of the egg of birds and other Ovipara , namely , an external membrane , analogous to the vitellary membrane , but performing a different function ; a granular membrane , containing a thin fluid , corresponding to the immature yelk of a bird 's egg ; and a vesicle in every respect analogous to the vesicle which Purkinje found in the hen 's egg , while still lodged in the ovary .
The author considers the granular membrane , proligerous disc , and gra ?
nular fluid of the Graafian vesicle , as parts which are superadded , and of which there is no trace within the capsule of the ovary of a bird .

