II .
" An Introductory Memoir upon Quantics .
" By ARTHIUn CAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received April 20 , 1854 .
The subject of Quantics is defined as the entire subject of rational and integral functions , and of the equations and loci to which these give rise , but the memoir relates principally to the functions called quantics ; a quantic being in fact a rational and integral function , homogeneous in regard to a set of facients ( x , y. .
) , or more generally homogeneous in regard to each of several such sets separately .
A quantic of the degrees m , m'. .
in the sets ( x , y. .
) ( x ' , y'. .
) &amp;c. is represented by a notation such as ( ~)(X , y..)7"( , / ..),. .
) , where the mark * is considered as indicative of the absolute generality of the quantic .
The coefficients of the different terms of the quantic may be either mere numerical multiples of single letters or elements , such as a , b , c. .
, or else functions ( in general rational and integral functions ) of such elements ; this explains the meaning of the expression the elements of a quantic .
The theory leads to the discussion of the derivatives called covariants .
Of these covariants a very general definition is given as follows , viz. considering the quantic ( *)(x , y,.)m ( xt , y'..)'. .
) , and selecting any two facients of the same set , e. g. the facients x , y , it is remarked that there is always an operation upon the elements tantamount as regards the quantic to the operation xdy , viz. if we differentiate with respect to each element , multiply by proper functions of the elements and add , the result will be that obtained by differentiating with die and multiplying by x. And if the operation upon the elements tantamount to xdy is represented by { xdy } , then writing down the series of operations { xdy }-xdy,. .
{ xdy } -xtdy,. .
&amp;c. , where x , y are considered as being successively replaced by every permutation of two different facients of the set ( x , y , .
) , xt , y ' by every permutation of two different facients of the set ( x ' , y'. .
) &amp;c. , then it is clear that the quantic is reduced to zero by each of the operations of the entire system , but this property is not by any means confined to the quantic ; and any function having the property in question , i. e. every function which is reduced to zero by each operation of the entire system , is said to be a covariant of the quantic .
The definition is afterwards still further generalized , and its connection explained with the methods given , in the memoir ' On Linear Transformations , ' Camb .
and Dub .
Math. Journal , Old Series , t. iv .
, and New Series , t. i. , and the ' Memoir sir les Hyperdeterminants , ' Crelle , t. xxx .
, and some other theorems given in relation to the subject .
The latter part of the memoir relates to the theory of the quantic ( *)(x , y)m , and to the number of and relations between the covariants , and as part of such theory to the beautiful law of reciprocity of MM .
Sylvester and Hermit .

