Torpedo marmorata .
Thermal .
I\T .
" The Electromotive Properties of the Electrical Organ of Torpedo marmorata .
" By FRANCIS GoTCH , B.A. , B.Sc. London , M.A. Oxon .
Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received May 5 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) After an introduction , in which the author sets forth the present state of knowledge with reference to the electromotive properties of the electrical organ of Torpedo , he gives an account of his own experimental investigations in three sections .
The first section relates to the nature of the changes produced in the electrical organ by mechanical injury and by heat , and the relation of these changes to those which manifest themselves under similar conditions in muscle and nerve , a subject which has not hitherto been inquired into .
In the second , the duration and the character of the response of the electrical organ to stimulation of its nerve are investigated for the first time by means of the rheotome and galvanometer .
In the experiments which are recorded in the third section , the author has entered on the examination of the after-effects which are produced in the organ by the passage through it of voltaic or induction currents , a subject which has been recently investigated by du Bois-Reymond .
The author is led by his experiments to believe that the physiological effects produced in the organ by injury , by the passage of currents , and by the stimulation of the electrical nerve , are , notwithstanding that they differ so widely from each other in distribution , duration , and intensity , all phenomena of excitation .
V. " On Thermal Radiation in Absolute Measure .
" By J. T. Bottomley , M.A. Communicated by Sir W. Thomson , Knt. , F.R.S. Received April 23,1887 .
( Abstract ) The investigation , of which a detailed account is given in the paper , was commenced in 1883 , and some preliminary results were communicated to the Royal Society in June , 1884 .
The radiating body used up to the present time has been a metallic wire ; * and the general method of experimenting consists in keeping * I propose , however , as soon as may be , to repeat and extend the experiment of D. Macfarlane ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. ' vol. 20,1872 ) on radiation from metallic globes .
358 On Thermal Radiation Absolute Measure .
[ June 16 , the wire heated by an electric current , and determining in absolute measure the electric energy necessary for this purpose .
This energy is lost in radiation and in conduction at the ends , but chiefly in radiation .
The wire is contained in a long copper tube , blackened inside , and kept cool by a water jacket ; and the surface of the wire may be bright and polished , or may be modified by being coated with lamp-black , platinum-black , oxide of copper , or some other material .
Polished wires have been chiefly used hitherto ; but arrangements for comparison of wires with surfaces differently prepared are described in the paper .
Two methods of determining the electric energy have been used .
One consists in measuring the electric current and the difference of potentials between chosen points in the radiation-wire ; the other in measuring the current and determining simultaneously the electric resistance , by means of a Wheatstone bridge , modified to suit the necessities of the case .
A knowledge of the resistance of the radiation-wire gives also its temperature , by means of separate determinations ( described in the paper ) of the law of alteration of electric resistance with temperature .
The temperatures of the radiation-wire and of the envelope are all referred to the air thermometer .
In order to vary the air-pressure surrounding the radiation-wire , and thus obtain data for the purpose of eliminating the heat-carrying properties of the air or other gas , the copper tube is connected , in a manner described in the paper , with a five-fall Sprengel pump ; and the pressures in the extreme vacuums are measured by the M'Leod gauge .
The results of the investigation , so far as it has gone , are shown in a series of tables and curves .
A long and very complete series of determinations has been made of the radiation at various given constant pressures , but at different gradually increasing temperatures .
By means of curves of this kind , showing radiation in extreme vacuum , a comparison may be made between the results of experiment and the results calculated from Stefan 's well-known fourth power law .
The experimental results do not appear to give any support to that law .
Several series of determinations have been made at different constant temperatures , the pressure being continuously diminished .
This mode of experimenting , by far the most appropriate to the purpose in hand , has only recently become convenient to the author , as it requires a special suitable current galvanometer .
Further experiments are to be carried out with this method .
In the meantime it may be said that on continuously diminishing , by means of the Sprengel pump , the air surrounding the wire , a point 1887 .
] Figures of Equilibrium of Rotating of Fluid .
359 lias been reached where further exhaustion does not affect the radiation observed .
In this way a condition seems to be reached asymptotically , in which the radiation is independent of anything removable by the Sprengel pump .
The value of the radiation found is , for the particular bright platinum wire used:\#151 ; At 408 ' C ... ... ... 378'8 x 10-4 gram water centigrade units per square centim. per sec. " 505 ' C ... ... ... . .
726T X 10-4 gram water centigrade units per square centim. per sec. the temperature of the envelope being about 15 ' 0 .
Comparatively little has been done up to the present as to radiation from the same body with the surface in different conditions .
The important results of Mr. Mortimer Evans , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1886 , as to the energy required to maintain a given candle power in incandescent lamps , with dull and with polished filaments , have been confirmed .
It is proposed to carry out further experiments on the influence of the surface of radiating bodies .
VI .
" On Figures of Equilibrium of Rotating Masses of Fluid .
" By G. H. Darwin , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College and Plumian Professor in the University ot Cambridge .
Received April 28 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The intention of this paper is , first , to investigate the forms which two masses of fluid assume when they revolve in close proximity about one another , without relative motion of their parts ; and secondly , to obtain a representation of the single form of equilibrium which must exist when the two masses approach so near to one another as just to coalesce into a single mass .
When the two masses are far apart the solution of the problem is simply that of the equilibrium theory of the tides .
Each mass may , as far as the action on the other is concerned , be treated as spherical .
When they are brought nearer to one another this approximation ceases to be sufficient , and the departure from sphericity of each mass begins to exercise a sensible deforming influence on the other .
The actual figure assumed by either mass may be regarded as a deformation due to the influence of the other considered as a sphere , on which is superposed the sum of an infinite series of deformations of each due to the deformation of the other and of itself .
But each mass is deformed , not only by the tidal action of the other , but also by its own rotation about an axis perpendicular to its

