]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF HE ROYAL SOCIETY .
SECTION A.\mdash ; MATHEMATICAL AND PEYSICAL SCIENCBS .
On the Longitudinal Strength of closed by Screw Plugs .
By ieut.-Colonel A. G. HADCOCK .
( Communicated by Sir George Greenhill , F.R.S. Received May 28 , 1915 .
) When designing the breech end of a ooun , or the screwed end of a hydraulic cylinder , it has been customary to assume that the longitudinal stress due to the powder pressure in a gun , or to the water pressure in a cylinder , is uniformly distributed over the cross-section of the gun tube or of the cylinder , as the case may be .
This , however , is seldom the case , because in practice the stress can rarely be applied uniformly over the section , and , therefore , almost always acts either on the inner or on the outer circumferential surface .
The stress on the material is consequently greatest on the surface where the force is applied ; thence , owing to the fibres stretching and sliding longitudinally over each other , the stress is partly transmitted throughout the thickness of the cylinder .
We shall show that in a cylinder there is , on the screwed end , a bending moment exerted on the material , in addition to the ordinary uniform longitudinal stress .
To reduce the investigation to its simplest case : Suppose that we have a cylinder closed by means of a screwed plug and subjected to an internal pressure exerted within the cylinder .
We desire to ascertain the greatest stress on the screwed part of the cylinder .
Let the screw thread be of V form , of which the thrust side makes an angle with the axis of the cylinder .
VOL. XCIL\mdash ; A. Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
On the Longitudinal Let be the total area ( square inches ) of the thrust surface of the few thread , the length in inches of the screwed portion , the internal pressure ( tons per square inch ) , the internal radius of the cylinder to which the pressure is co1lfined , the radius of the screwed part at the root of the thread , the mean radius of the screw thread , the external radius of the cylinder , the angle of friction of the screwed surfaces .
The total longitudinal pressure , in tons , on the screw plug is Then if the depth EA of the screw thread ABD ( fig. 1 ) is taken instead of the inclined surface AB , we can put where is the total helical surface formed by the line The pressure acts on the thrust side AB of the thread , giving rise to a reaction and an outward thrust Q. If is the pressure per quare inch corresponding to and and the pressures per square inch corresponding to and respectively , then we have AB Q. Now and , or and the curious result is obtained that if Strength of Cylinders closed by Screw Plugs .
As aots on AC or on only half of the width of the root of the may , by halving , consider it to act on the whole depth .
Thus the thrust outwards becomes per square inch on the inner surface of the cylinder of radius but as the outward thrust is : ( !
) This will manifest itself as a bursting stress on the threaded part AB , fig. 2 , of the cylinder .
If the screw thread is of the buttress type becomes , and as the Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
On the Longitudinal longitudinal force is normal to its surface there is no tendency to : consequently the outward stress vanishes .
The total pressure on the screw plug is taken on the wall of the cylinder at the root of the screw thread .
Here , the surface exposed to this longitudinal force is , and there will , consequently , be an uniformly distributed but cumulative longitudinal stress of tons per square inch .
At ( fig. 2 ) this stress is , but at A it has an intensity tons per square inch .
In order to examine the stress on the cylinder divide it longitudinally into an infinite number of elementary segments EFGH , and consider the forces acting on one segment embraced by two radial planes at an angular distance apart .
Then the width of this beam at radius is : and as the longitudinal force is uniformly increasing over the screwed internal surface , it is zero at ( fig. 2 ) and has its greatest value , tons per square inch , at A. The total longitudinal force on the width of the beam at any cross-section distant from A is therefore This force tends to stretch the material longitudinally ; it will also tend to bend the beam about its neutral surface , and as can be made indefinitely small , the neutral surface may , for each elementary beam , be considered a plane surface .
If denotes the radius of this neutral surface the force acts at a distance from it .
The tension , or positive , stress on the material of the beam , at any radius of the section is , therefore , the uniformly distributed stress on the section due to the load plus the stress due to the bending moment on the section .
Thus where resultant bending moment on the beam about the neutral axis of the section under consideration , and I the moment of inertia of the section .
Note , however , that when is greater than , the last term becomes Strength of Cytinders dosed by Screw Plugs .
5 negative , and a compressive may result on the outer circumferential fibres .
The resultant bending moment , .
( 3 ) The first term on the right is the moment of the longitudinal force , acting at radius , about the neutral axis at radius ; the second term is the sum of the moments of the bursting stress due to the thrust component of the screw threads .
This thrust is uniform throughout the length and acts about the point ( fig. 2 ) ; its magnitude , on the mean width of the screw thread and for a length of the beam , is for any distance from A the leverage about is , consequently the moment is : and the sum of the moments from to is that shown in the second term .
The third term , acting in the contrary direction , is the sum of the moments of the hoop tension resolved parallel to the central plane of the segmental beam ; it is greatest at and vanishes at , where the deflection of the beam outwards is least .
The total tension effort , for a thin strip across one of the bounding radial planes , is , suppose , and we may assume that the distribution of the tension through the thickness of the cylinder follows the usual laws for thick tubes .
This is , however , only strictly correct when the longitudinal stress is uniform throughout the section .
is , therefore , the sum of the circumferential tensions through the thickness of the cylinder .
It should be noted that can be replaced by , and that when has its greatest value ; and that when , i.e. at the extreme end of the cylinder .
Again , from elementary principles , we have for the deflection of the beam EI Therefore from equation ( 2 ) , putting in the last term for the greatest stress , EI , ( 4 ) Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
On the changing into and integrating As when , there is no constant .
Integrating again E .
( 5 ) Here at the neutral surface the deflection when , and , therefore , there is no constant ; also is grea when , in which case For the greatest deflection put , then equation 5 becomes E , ( 6 ) the negative sign indicating the direction of the deflection .
From the usual formulas for thick cylinders where is the circumferential tension at radius the radial pressure ( a negative value ) , the longitudinal stress , both at radius When , a constant , so that the ordinary gun formulas hold at this point .
From the ordinary gun formulas for the interior layers of metal in a thick cylinder , viz. , and In our case as we are considering a cylinder only , as there is no external pressure .
If , however , an outer strengthening cylinder is shrunk on to the main cylinder and Consequently in ( 7 ) , Strength of Cytinders closed by Screw Plugs .
where is the circumferential tension of the inner layer at the extreme end of the cylinder .
From equations ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) we obtain\mdash ; by putting Poisson 's ratio inserting the values just found for and so that .
( 8 ) In order to find the value of ( when ) in equations ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , some law must be assumed for the variation of in the expression If the ordinary formulas for thick cylinders be adopted as the most convenient , although not perhaps absolutely exact , then , since there is no external pressure , and where is the internal pressure which , acting on a diameter , would be required , at each section considered : to produce the total tension From the form of equations ( 5 ) and ( 8 ) it is reasonable to assume that the inner rircumferential tension increases , proportionally to .
from zero at A to at B. If this be assumed , then at any section distant from And when , I or , and there is therefore no constant .
Inserting the limits .
( 9 ) At , where , the expression assumes its greatest value , viz. :\mdash ; and when it becomes zero .
The value of cau now be found at any point from equations ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) by replacing the various terms by their proper values ; it is only 8 Longitudinal Strength of Cylinders closed by Screw Plugs .
necessary to know the greatest stress the material has to support .
Thus when and the greatest is found , i.e. When is very small it will be found that ( 10 ) and replacing by its value in equation ( 8 ) we finally obtain tons/ inch2 .
( 11 ) It follows that the length should be so proportioned that .
( 12 ) The expression equals 1 when , but for all ordinary values of up to or it is a little less than 1 ; if , therefore , we suppose it to be 1 a slightly larger value for the bursting moment will be obtained .
The formula will then be simplified to tons/ inch2 .
13 )

