I. " On Fossil Teeth of Equines from Central and South America , referable to Equus conversidens , Equus tau , and Equus arcidens .
" By Professor OWEN , F.R.S. Received November 17 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The author , referring to his previous paper on the Equine fossil remains from the cavern of Bruniquel , finds , in the preliminary illustrations of the dental characters of existing species of the Horse-kind , the requisite and much-needed basis of comparison for the determination of other fossils of the Solidungulate group , and he devotes the present paper to the elucidation of those which have reached him from Central and South America .
He commences by referring to the type-specimens of teeth , from two localities in South America , on which he founded the species E. curvidens , describing it ( in 1840 ) " as one coexisting with the Megatherium , Toxodon , &amp;c. in that continent , and which had become extinct at a prehistoric period .
" -He then proceeds to describe more complete evidences of the dentition of an allied extinct Horse discovered by Don Antonio del Castillo , mining engineer , in newer Tertiary deposits of the Valley of Mexico .
Besides repeating the originally described characters of the curvature of the grinder , with a certain resemblance of enamel-pattern to the grindingsurface of the E. curvidens , they show a greater degree of curvature of the alveolar series of the upper jaw , with corresponding greater convergence of the right and left molar series toward the fore part of the palate , than in any previously described species of Equus .
Deciduous teeth of the Equus conversidens from the same deposits of the Valley of Mexico are described .
Having determined these corroborative and distinctive characters of aboriginal and now extinct American horses , the author remarks , " It is unlikely , seeing the avidity with which the Indians of the Pampas have seized and subjugated the stray descendants of the European horses introduced by the Spanish 'Conquistadors ' of South America , and the able use the nomad natives make of the multitudinous progeny of those war-horses at the present day , that any such tameable Equine should have been killed off or extirpated by the ancestors of the South-American aborigines .
" If , therefore , the fossil Equine teeth do belong , as the author deems that he has proved , to a species distinct from Equus caballus , Linn. , " the circumstances of their discovery , and the fact of the extinction of such ( curvident and conversident ) species of Horse would point to some other cause than that of man 's hostility to so useful an animal , and such doubt as to extinction by human means may then be extended to the contemporaries of the Equus curvidens and E. conversidens , viz. Megatherium , Mylodon , Toxodon , Nesodon , Macrauchenia , Glyptodon , Mastodon , &amp;c. " The author next proceeds to describe fossil teeth from the upper and lower jaws , discovered by Don A. del Castillo in the same deposits of the Valley of Mexico , and referable to a third species of Equus , viz. Equus tau , Ow .
Finally the author proceeds to the description of some fossil upper molar teeth from Pampas deposit , in the bed of a brook falling into the " Arroyo Negro " near Paysandi , Monte Video , showing characters more decisively distinct from any other known species of Equus than have hitherto been described .
The degree of curvature of the upper molar teeth exceeds that in Equus curvidens , and equals that in Toxodon ; and the specific name " arcidens " is accordingly proposed for this aboriginal American species of Horse .
It is compared with so much of the characters as have been given by Dr. Lund of his Equus neogceus and E. principalis from Brazilian caverns ; and the differences from all other Equines which these species and the E. arcidens agree in presenting lead the author to view them as having , like the liippotheritum of Kaup , formed a generic group in the Equide , for which he proposes the name Hipplidion .
The fossil teeth of IH .
arcidens were found associated with remains of Meyacthelrium and Glyptodon in the above-named locality ; the specimens were transmitted and presented to the British Museum ( in 1867 ) by the lion .
W. G. Lettsom , Her Britannic Majesty 's Minister at Monte Video .
This paper is illustrated by drawings of the specimens described .

