]\gt ; Mr. G. M. Minchin .
[ May 16 , Difference per half-ton .
468 to 470 to 46 4 528 to 540 58 to 70 4 545 to 550 715 after half a minute .
758 after two minutes .
785 after nine minutes .
5 1200 running slowly off the scale .
The mean extension from to tons is 736 per , which makes tons per square inch .
II .
" " The Electrical Measurement of Starlight .
Observations made at the Observatory of Daramona House , co .
Westmeath , in April , 1895 .
Preliminary Report By G. M. MINCHIN , M.A. Communicated by Professor FITZGERALD , F.R.S. Receiyed April 29 , The method employed in these experiments for measuring the intensity of the light which reaches the earth from the stars and planets consists in ) determination of the electromotive force geneated by such ligb in certain cells , the square of this electromotive force being proportional to the energy of the incident light .
It will , then , be well to describe first the nature and construction of these cells .
The Photo-electric Celts .
In these cells the surface on which the incident is received is formed by depositing a thin layer of seleninm on a surface of clean aluminium , and immersing the sensitive layer in a glass cell filled with oenanthol .
The mode of mation of the sensitive surface is as follows:\mdash ; FIG. 1 .
1895 .
] 'he Elecirical of Starlight .
143 Take a tube , AB , of soft glass , the diameter of the bore of which is 1 mm. , or smaller if desired ; take a short length , , of aluminium wire , which nearly fits the tube , and to one end , , of this piece of aluminium attach a platinum wire , , which emerges from the end , , of the glass tube , the c.ontact at L. being made by boring a fine hole rough aluminium and the two metals together ; then , in the flame of a Bunsen bnrner or a blowpipe , melt the glass well round the aluminium , until the glass fits round the aluminium as tightly as possible .
The contact of the glass and the ] uminium should be perfect , or , at least , liquid-tight , and , tely , it has been found hitherto impossible to realise this condition .
If this condition could be attained , photo-electric cells would remain constaut in their action for a very long time , if not , indeed , permanently .
At present , owing to this want of liquidtightness , about four weeks seems to be the limit of constancy .
( There is also another condition essential to constancy , which will be presontly mentioned .
) The next step is to grind the end A of the tube on fine sand or emery-paper until a flat surface is formed by the end of the aluminium and the wall of the glass tube , the end of the aluminium wire being then scraped clean .
Now place the tube AB , with the end A uppermost , between two nearly vertical plates of asbestos , the end A just appearing beyond the edges of the of asbestos ; on the middJe of the aluminium wire at A place a very small piece of selenium ( about the size of a very small pin-head ) ; heat the asbestos by means of spirit lamp or a Bunsen flame until the selenium meIts on the end A of the tube .
Care must be taken to keep the flame away from the selenium , so that the latter melts in virtue of the heat of the aluminium wire .
The seIenium now lies as a very ] little liquid globule ou the end of the tube , and it must be spread uniformly over the end of the tube by means of a heated glass rod .
The layer of selenium should not be a thick one .
The flame being removed , allow the selenium to cool into a hard black layer .
When it reaches this condition , apply the heat , as before , until the black snrface anges into one with a unifox.m brownish-grey colo , the heat being continued after this with care until the selenium is on the point of melting again into a black liquid .
On the first sign of this latter change , instantly emove the heat and blow ovel* the surface of the selenium .
This will at once stop the tendenc to melt , and the surface will then be in its most sensitive state .
There should be no glossy streaks on the surface ; if there are , it must be heated over again and the whole process repeated .
Screen the tube from light and allow it to cool for a few minutes ; it will then be ready to put into the cell with oenanthol .
The It consists of a glass tube abour 3 cm .
long , and nearly a entimetre in diameter , with two short glass tubes fitted into it on opposite sidcs ; o1le of these is ground flat , and has a tbin quartz window , cemented to it with gelatine and acetic acid , or glue and glycerine , or any cement that will withstand the action of oenanthol ; the ) is tightly closed by a cork , , through which passes the glass tube , AB , which contains the aluminium and platinum above FIG. 2 .
described .
The cell is closed at one end by a ground glass stopper , , and through the other end passes a platinum wire , , sealed in .
The two poles of the cell are the platinum wires and light of a star is destined to shine through the quartz window QQ on the centre of the sensitive surface , which is placed in focus of a telescope , or rather a ]ittle behind this focus , so that the light of the star may cover the whole of the selenium area .
The covering of the whole area A by the light is essential , for the following reason:\mdash ; The seat of the eIectromotive force is the surface of contact of the liquid and the selenium , the selenium receiving a positive and the liquid , negative charge .
If , now , is connected with one pole of an electrometer and with the , and if there is any portion of the selenium surface which is not exposed to the light ( and consequently not the seat of an ] ] this inert portion will act simply as a conductor conveying a portion of the positive charge to the wrong pole of the electrometer , and thus giving a diminished effect .
The truth of this is easily verified with any kind of photo-electric cell , e.g. , one formed of a sensitive tinfoil surface divided into two 1895 .
] Th Electrical Jleasnrement of Starlight .
145 portions which can be metallically joined together outside the cell or kept separate .
If , while the ortions joined , one is exposed to , and the her scroetled from , lncident light , the E.M.F. indicated is much less than it is when both are exposed , or when one alone is exposed while the other is disconnected from it .
( A descri.ption of snch tinfoil cell will be found in the ' Philosophical Mag.azmc ' and in the ceedings of the Society fact now enables us to see the importance of the liquid from glass tube AB , which .
contains the conducting wire , for it is clear that , when the light is lncident at , the liquid which crcpt into the tube OUIld the aluminium wire will convey tion of the charge imparted to the liquid in the cell to the vrong pole of the el.ectrometer , and will thus diminish the effect of the light .
illary entrance of the liquid into the tube AB may , of course , be prevented by into the tube a of an lnminium vire , and coating the end of it with the selenium layer .
But , , platinum is not so good a base for the selenium as is aluminium , , almost certainly , to the fact that selenium enters into chemical coml ) osition with platinum , while it does not do so with , or some other metals which , possibly , may yet be used .
The entrance of the liqnid could also be prevented by using a tinum wire instead of an aluminium one , and then coating the end of the platinum wire at A with a deposit of aluminium ; but , this is doubtless possible , success in the attempt has not yet been attained .
tightlless is another essential condition of the constancy of these photo-electric cells , for it is found that in which not quite air-tight the resistance of the oenanthol increases very much afler a few veeks , probably owing to the oxidation of the liquid by the air ; and this increase of resistance promotes sluggishness in the response of the cell to the action of An examination of a seleno-aluminium cell with the various portions of the spectrum of lime-light shows that the cell is sensitive to all the rays from tlje end of the red , and below it , to beyond the violet , the maximum .
being produced in yellow : but the of .F .
does not valy very greatly until the violet is reached .
In this respect the minium cell differs from all other photocells , for the sensitivelless of most of the latter is almost wholly confined to the blue .
It may be mentioned , however , that a cell formed by immersing clean silver plates in a solution of eosine gives electromotive forces of opposite signs the red and the blue energy incident on a photo-electric cell has been found to bs 3/ 2 146 Mr. G. M. Minchin .
[ May 16 , proportional to the square of the electromotive force generated .
If one candle held at a certain distance from the cell gives a difference , of potential between the poles , two candles close together will be found to give a difference .
Or , if a candle be tried at different distances from the cell , the difference of potential will be found to vary as the distance .
Intrinsic of If I is the total amonnt of energy radiated into space in any time by a star at the distance from the earth , the quantity received on any given surface on the earth will be proportional to ; and if is the electromotive force which this generates iu a given cell , we have . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
lvhere is some constant .
Hence , if I ' is the intrinsic energy of another star at the distance , and the corresponding E.M.F. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) , from which we have . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) .
Hence , if the parallaxes of the two stars are known , say and respectively , we have . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 4 ) .
Wheu it is desired to compare the energy of a star with that of the sun , we must know the area of the sensitive layer , , Fig. 1 , of selenium in the cell .
Let this be , and let A be the area of the aperture of the telescope .
Then , since it is not desirable to concentrate on the selenium the amount of solar light which falls on the large area , we must turn the cell to the sun withoub the aid of the telescope .
Let be the E.M.F. observed , the intrinsic energy of the sun , and the distance of the sun from the earth .
Then . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
while , for any star whose distance is , giving an E.M.F. equal to . .
189.5 .
] The Electrical llteasurement of Starlight .
As the electromotive force produced by the light of the sun directly on the cell is probably too large , it lvill be desirable to its intensity by taking it through a small measured and placing the cell a known distance behind .
employed .
The trument employed for measuring the electromotive generated by the light of different stars is a quadrant ometer differing from the forms iu oldinary use in having its quadrants made of aluminium , two of these being supported on brass pillars connected with the case of the electrometer and always earthed , the other two supported on pillars of melted quartz .
The quadrant box is about 2 cm .
high and 5 in diameter ; the needle is of thin aluminium foil , cut into the peculiar shape figured in Clerk Maxwell 's ' icity a is suspeuded by a quartz fibre about 9 .
long .
The needle and quadrants are SUl.rounded by a metal case , and the ument is both air-tight and induction-tight .
It had been intended to use with the electrometer an air condensel consisting chiefly of two gilt brass plates , each about 15 cm .
in diametel\ldquo ; to multiply the potentials indic.ated by the ometer ; but at present there are difficulties in the way of its employment , and the measul.es made on this occasion were made by the electrometer alone .
Both instrnments were constructed with the aid of the Government raut administered by a Committee of the Royal Society and were made by Mr. Paul of HaLton } .
The Telescope .
This .
Wilson 's 2-feet refiector , which was at used a Cassegrain , and subsequently as a Newtonian , carrier being in each case fixed to the telescope in place of the eyepiece .
The Cell-Oar.rier .
represents the cell-carrier in plan .
A plate of diameter in the centre of its vertical face ( not represented in the figure ) is fitted with a screw , , at one end .
This screw pusbes forward another thin brass plate , DD , which moves backwards and forwards in a grooved space in the plate AA .
The plate DD has a hole in its centre and is moved in one direction by and in the opposite direction by the finger applied to a screw , attached to DD near one end .
A small thin brass plate , , is attached to DD , and can move up and down ( i.e. , at right angles to the plane of the in a grooved space in DD by means of a screw which is not represented in the figure .
This plate has also a hole in its centre over which is cemented a thin circnlar glass plate carrying crossed spider lines , represented in the figure by .
The point of intersection of these cross-lines is capable of being brought into any desired by means of the horizontal motions of ] plate DD and the vertical motions of To the face of AA opposite to that on which DD moves is attached a brass plate , BB , which moves in a grooved space in AA .
Through BB passes a screw , , which penetrates a short distauce into a special groove in BB which is terminated at the points marked 1 and 2 .
These points are , therefore , stops to determine the extreme positions of the sliding plate BB on the fixed plate AA .
The plate BB has a circular hole of about ) cm .
in diameter in its middle , and also another , , a little to the side .
Over is cemented a thin plate of glass on which can be marked two cross-lines marked the figure , or a dot .
An ebonite block with a cylindrical hole , , into which fits the cell represented in fig. 2 is screwed to BB just over the central hole in BB .
The BB is moved backwards and forwards by a projecting handle , H. The fixed plate AA is screwed to a stout cylindrical tube about two inches long not represented ) , and this tube fits on the telescope instead of the usual eye-piece .
AA can be adjusted , if necessary , to varions positions relative to this tube , i.e. , relative to the telescope .
To set the apparatus for a star , the procedure is this : move the plate BB ( and with it of course the by the handle untlt is stopped by the stop 2 ; move the intersection of the cross-lines on by means of the and the screw which moves vertically until this point of intersecbio1l is exactly opposite the centre of the sensitive surface of the cell ( which is , of course , visible through all the holes in the plates ) ; bring back BB by means of until it is stopped by the stop 1 ; the glass plate covering the hole is now visible opposite gg\mdash ; or rather through we can see the lntersection 1895 .
] The of Starlight .
of the cross-lines on ; mark on the glass at with a fine brush point a dob exactly opposite the of the cross-lines of ; remo out of the field of view by the vertical motion of the attached to it and to the plate DD\mdash ; this being done in order that the light of the star may not have to pass through the glass plate on This completes the adjustment .
To use the iustrument with a star , keep BB stopped by the stop 1 , the mark or dot at is in position to receive the image of the .
Suppose , then , that by the adjustment of AA relatively to the the of the star exactly on this mark .
Now by means of the handle move BB until it is stopped by the stop 2 .
This centre of sensitive surface into the position occupied by the mark at , i.e. , the image star is now falling on the sensitive surface of the cell .
desire to row off star , we can do so by oving BB with the handle until it is stopped by the stop 1 ; but it is better to effect this by 1noving the telescope itseIf in declination : without goin near ) cell , ulltil the star is out of the field , as indicated by finder ; in this latter way the ccll suffers no effects of ten ] peratnre , \amp ; c. of pole ( the insensitivo ) of the cell was connected with earth by a attached to a gas-pipe , while the ( that of the urface ) was attached to a fine u1lcovcred copper wire , carefully insulated tLroughout , which passed down a shellac plug the of the observation room to the electrometer in the of the electrometer deflections caused by the light of the stars made in the lower room by Professor Fitzgerald , while and I to matters upstairs .
But in this part of the } } th scrvices of two colleagues wero of very much mine .
The Observations .
Regulus was the first star taken , on the night of the -April , and only two ) SGl.vations of the on the electrometer scale its light were made before proceeding to an examinafor comparison .
It is thought desirable to show in tabular a few of the results obtained .
A Leclanche cell pro- duced on the scale a deflection of 530 mm. , the scale being about from the electrometer .
ery photo-electric cell of the type previously described and of nsitiveness has a certain native or disturbing Fi .
Mr. G. M. Minchin .
[ May 16 , which is always opposed to the ] ] .
generated by light .
In this case it was represented by mm. The second column of this table contains the number on the scale at which the spot stood when the cell was in the dark , i.e. , when the only E.M.F. in it was its disturbing E.M.F. ; bhe second column contains the number to which the spot moved when the light of the star was allowed to fall on the sensitive snrface in the cell .
It will thus be seen that the E.M.F. due to Regnlus in these two experiments was represented by the number , or about of a Leclanche .
Arcturus when tried gave the following resnlts , after a few preliminary observations ( which were tried in the case of Regulus also , and which are rendered necessary after the disturbances caused in shifting the telescope , \amp ; c. ) :\mdash ; These observations were somewhat irregular , because the sky was not quite clear during most of the observations , but was getting clearer as they proceeded .
The last was probably the best observation , and in that case Arcturus produced a voltage of about An experiment was made to try whether , if the cell were exposed to the sky in the neighbourhood of the star , but not to the star itself , any effect was produced , and a deflection of about mm. in the direction opposed to that of the deflection caused by light was constantly observed .
1895 .
] The Electrical Measurement of Starlight .
If we take this effect into account , we have as the deflections due to Regulus . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arcturus . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assuming now the latest determinations of the parallaxes of these to be Regulus . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arctul.us . . . . . . . . . . . .
lve have from equation ( 4 ) the ratio of their respective intrinsic energies , I , I ' , the result showing Arcturus radiates into space about times as much energy as Regulus in a given time .
The telescope next turned to the star Bootis , with the If the radiation to the sky is added , the star 's deflection amounts to 1 , i.e. , a voltage of observation is , however , recorded for the purpose of showing that a comparatively faint star is able to give an unmistakeable M. F. The telescope was next turned on Saturn , whose image was so hat the ends of his rings were probably off the sensitive SUl.face in the cell .
The observation was:\mdash ; Between the second and third of these the cell had been slightly disturbed , so that the is not very satisfactory , altbough it gives the mean result .
152 Mr. G. M. Minchin .
[ May 16 , The glare from the moon was now very distinctly apparent , and its effect seemed to be a deflection of about mm. , which must be deducted from Saturn 's effect .
This latter would , then , be represented by about mm. , or a voltage of .
next observations were made on the night of Friday , the 12th , and on this night the atmosphere very hazy , although many stars were visible .
It is not necessary to enter the details of observations on such a night ; nevertheless , it may be interesting to see the effscts wlIich were observed .
For the following bodies the mean deflections were as tabulated:\mdash ; Jupiter . . . . . . . . . .
mm. Cygni . . . . . . . . . .
Vega . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arcturus . . . . . . . . . .
Regulus . . . . . . . . . .
A standard candle placed at a distance of 9 feet from the cell duced a deflection of 11 mm. Nothing of a ative nature can be deduced from these resuIts owing to the presence ( and unequal distribution ) of haze , the eifect of which was to make Vega produce a deflection less than that of Arcturus .
On the night of the 14th the sky was clearer , and while Arcturus gave a very fairly constant deflection of mm. , Regulus gave mm. , Bootis mm. , Coronae mm. , and Herculis something less than mm. The night of the 15th was , for a short time , much clearer , and during this time the following more reliable measures were made:\mdash ; Arcturus . . . . . . . .
mm. ( mean of 4 observations ) Saturn . . . . . . . . . .
, , Vega . . . . . . . . . .
, , Candle at 9 feet. .
Leclanche cell . . .
It would be intel.esting to compare the intrinsic energies of Arcturus and Vega , but the parallax of Vega seems to be almost more uncertain than that of .
It is given in Young 's ' Astronomy ' as , while Miss Clerk gives Elkin 's value as \ldquo ; the first of these is taken , with the valne for Arcturns , equation gives the intrinsic energy of Arcturus equal to times that of Vega ; but if the second is taken , this number becomes only Electrical of tarlight .
153 the } iietric Method .
method of comparison of " " magnitudes if and are the brightnesses of two stars whose magnitudes are ) nnd respectively , we , by definitiou , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arcturus and Regulus as of the magnitudes and , respecbively , and the electromotive forces of their lights as 8 and 4 .
, ( Ieterminaion of April ll , previously cited ) , we have , The nitude of Regulus , as matter of fact , is variousl } cited as to ; thns the amount of correspondence between the photo-electric and methods is seen .
Among the fe bright stars which we found available was Procyon , and this star oflered an nity for vation d limited time , owing to mechanical hindrances in the Observatory .
The stars in the shone brilliantly , and , under favotlrable tallceh , their light could have been easily measured .
constellation was , however , so nearly vertical , that the apel'ture iu tbeloof of the ) servatory } not sufficiently wide to suit the perttlre of the telescope , and hence no observation of any of these stars was attempted .
On one night -ations of Procyon and Regulus were taken .
cadings were much smaller than had been anticipated from the great sitiveness of the cell and electrometer .
When these oDseYvations vere completed , the ccll was exposed to a candJe at 9 feet , and the effect was so small , that it was evident that some accidental btance was inte .
The cell was , herefore , taken down telescope and examined , with the resuIt that we found an opaque tion of cell holdel covering a portion of the sensitive face in the cell .
This was at once removed , and then the candle , Arcturus , aItd V gave the large deflections quoted in the tions of the 15th , It was , however , then t , oo late to get Procyon .
But the observations which bad been made this star ulus , while the partial obstruction of the mained , gave of their deflections as Regulus . . . . . . . . . .
mm. Procyon . . . . . . . . . .
The lectrical Mof Starlight .
[ May 16 , Now , although the accidental obstruction renders this comparison unsatisfactory , it is remarkable that these numbers accord fairly well with the " " magnitudes " " of the two stars , as given by Miss Clerk ( ' System of the Stars , ' Appendix , Table IJI ) .
Thus , the " " magnitude\ldquo ; of Begulus is iveu as , and that of Procyon \amp ; s Now , in equation ( 5 ) , if we pnt ( 190/ 127)2 , and assume the magnitude of Begulus whiIe that of Procyon , we have which is a rather close coinoidence .
On the same data equation ( 4 ) gives the resuIt Intrinsic energy of Regulus36intrinsic energy of Procyon .
It is hoped that these measurements will be resumed about the end of next Sept.ember , at Daramona , by the same ) servers ; and , in the meantime , some improvements will be eifected in the cell-holder which will facilitate observation .
An endeavour will also be made to improve the cell itself in the directions indicated at inning of this Report .
The experiments prove conclusively that there is little difficulty in obtaining fairly accurate measurements of the Iight of stars of the first and second " " magnitudes even without the employment of a multiplying condenser or a larger telescope .
A telescope with an aperture of 5 or 6 feet would certainly annex a very great number of stars to the list .
It is right to put on record the fact that the first photo-electric observations of planets and stars were made by Mr. Monck , in Dublin , in the year 1892 , in conjunction with Professor Fitzgerald .
My cells were at that time much less sensitive than the present ones ; and , for reasons set forth in this paper , their sensitiveness fell off after about six hours .
The liquid in those cells was acetone , and the aluminium on which the selenium was deposit was not insulated from the liquid .
Nevertheless , Mr. Monck and Professor Fitzgerald were able to obserre electromotive forces due to the light of Venus , Jupiter , and , I think , .
Mr. Monck 's telescope is a refractor of 9 .
aperture , so that large results were not to be expected .
These observers were not quite certain whether Vega and Capella produced me , asurable effiects or not ; but their observations were much interfered with by draughts of , and other things , in their observatory .

