On the Radium Content the velocity changes from -fui + -fv2 to TV'i 4-values for u in ( 7 ) T Qmi \#151 ; S M(\#171 ; i \#151 ; 2 log , 9 , Substituting these and inserting the values of 7 , p , p , and k for air , 7 = 1-4 , p = 1-3 x 10"3 , 1*9 x 10~4 , / c = -1'6^\#151 ; * J ( 7\#151 ; 1 ) there is obtained ( Qwi\#151 ; S)/ M = 022 and T = W2)-1 approximately .
In the case of waves of percussion it is known that the velocity differs appreciably from that of sound .
In that case \#151 ; u2 would be considerable and its reciprocal would be small , so that the motion would closely approximate to an abrupt discontinuous one .
In the case of ordinary sounds , however , the relative velocities of air in different parts of a wave are small , so that T would be large compared with a wave-length , and nothing in the nature of a sharp discontinuity would ever be established .
On the Radium Content of Basalt .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received July 16 , 1910 .
) In a former paperf I gave measurements of the amount of radium in representative igneous rocks .
In the reduction of these measurements a value of the equilibrium ratio between radium and uranium given by Rutherford and Boltwood was used , which has subsequently been corrected by those authors .
My results were reprinted with the necessary amendment by Eve and McIntosh . !
Subsequent to the publication of my first paper other experimenters have made similar measurements , with results in most cases substantially the same .
| Prof. J. Joly , however , has arrived at values considerably higher .
His results are most conveniently referred to in his book " Radioactivity and * O. E. Meyer , ' Kinetic Theory of Gases/ English edition , p. 292 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ A , vol. 77 , p. 472 .
+ ' Phil. Mag./ August , 1907 , p. 231 .
S See Eve and McIntosh , loc. cit. Parr and Florance , ' Phil. Mag./ November , 1909 , p. 812 .
Schlundt and Moore , ' U.S. Geol .
Survey Bull./ vol. 395 , p. 26 .
Fletcher , ' Phil. Mag./ July , 1910 , p. 36 .
On the Radium Content of Basalt .
Geology " ( Constable , 1909 ) .
The discrepancy is most marked in the case of basalts , for which he finds a value of 4'9 x 10~12 gramme radium per gramme of rock .
My own results average about 06 x 10-12 , as also do those of the other experimenters .
Prof. Joly does not find much difference between acid and basic rocks .
Other experimenters have all found that acid rocks tend to be considerably richer .
I have made some additional measurements on basalts , in order , if possible , to clear up the cause of this discrepancy .
Special attention was paid to a point which had perhaps not been adequately considered in the earlier investigation .
When the rock has been fused with sodium carbonate , and the product extracted with water , the aqueous solution obtained usually develops a precipitate on prolonged boiling .
Formerly , this precipitate was allowed to remain in the alkaline liquid .
In the present experiments it was filtered off and added to the acid liquid , in which it readily dissolved .
After extracting the sodium carbonate melt with water , the residue was formerly dissolved in hydrochloric acid , any silica which separated being allowed to remain in the liquid .
In the present experiments this , too , was filtered off , and fused again with soda , the treatment being repeated if necessary , until everything had been got into solution .
It was thought possible that the undissolved matter might be prejudicial to complete extraction of the emanation .
But no such effect seems traceable in the results , and the trouble of preparing the solutions is greatly increased .
In other respects the method of experimenting was the same as before .
The standardisations were carried out with several different analysed specimens of uranium ores , with fairly concordant results .
The mean values obtained from several readings with each rock were as follows:\#151 ; Description .
Radium per gramme , in grammes x 10"12 .
Coarse-grained basalt .
Hightown , near Belfast 0T6 Fine-grained basalt .
Oelberg , Siebengebirge 0*33 Fine-grained basalt .
Tobermory , Mull 0-35 Olivine basalt .
Talisker Bay , Sky 0-57 These results are even lower than those obtained before for similar rocks .
The actual material is different , except in the case of the last rock on the list , which gives about the same result as before.* * This was the only one of the original basalts examined of which I had enough left for examination .
Rate at which Helium is Produced 379 Thus the difference between my results and Prof. Joly 's is somewhat emphasised .
I should have regarded my results , if they stood alone , as sufficiently conclusive , though it is impossible to help feeling disconcerted by want of agreement with so distinguished an experimenter .
It is perhaps possible , after all , that the difference is due to his having met with exceptional specimens .
Measurements of the Rate at Helium is Produced Thorianite and Pitchblendewith a Minimum Estimate of their Antiquity .
By the Hon. E. J. Strutt , F.E.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Keceived July 23 , 1910 .
) S 1.\#151 ; Introductory .
The method of deducing a minor limit to the age of minerals from an examination of their radioactive properties has , up to the present time , depended on a measurement of the amount of helium they now contain , and on an indirect calculation of the rate at which it is being produced by the radioactive matter within them .
There is not now much uncertainty about this calculation .
Nevertheless , considering the fundamental importance of the question of geological time , it is not superfluous to determine in some favourable case by direct volume-measurement of the gas how much helium is produced per gramme of the mineral per annum , in order to see how long the quantity found in the natural mineral would take to accumulate , and to check the method of calculation to which we must still resort where the much more difficult direct method is impracticable .
A mineral suitable for such experiments must be obtainable by the kilogramme , and very radioactive , so as to give a measurable quantity of helium in a few months .
The minerals selected have been thorianite ( two varieties ) and pitchblende\#151 ; practically the only ones available .
Some account of preliminary work was given in a former paper.* Much more elaborate and satisfactory experiments have since been carried out .
These will now be described .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 83 , p. 98 .

