]\gt ; On the Gaseous , Liquid , and Solid States of Water .
December 11 , 1873 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Notice that at the next lSIeeting the Right Hon. Edward Cardwell would be proposed for election and immcdiate ballot .
The President amlounced that he had appoiuted as Presidents : The Treasurel .
Sir George Biddell Prof. A. C. Bamsay , Dr. Shnrpey , lfaior-Gelleral Strachey .
Dr. John Beddoe admitted into the Society .
The commu1licttions were read : I. ' ( luantitative Investigation of certain Relations between the Gaseous , the and the Solid States of Water-Substauce.'2 By Professor , LL. D. , Queen 's College , Belfast .
Communicated by Sir LLIAbI THOMSON , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 20 , 1873 .
In communications made by me to the British Association ifs Mectings at Edinburgh in 1871 , at Brighton in 1872 , and printed as abstracts the Trallsactions of the Sections for those years , considerations dduced on tions b even the gaseous , the liqnid , and the solid states of matter .
The subjcct the present paper constitutes a further development of some of those previous coIlsidelations ; and a brief sketch of these is here as an introduction rendering intelligible what is to -ing into consideration any substance which we can have in the three states , gaseous , liquid , and solid , may observe that , any two of these states iLre present in together , the temperature are dependent each on the other , so when oue is en the other is fixed .
Then , if denote ffi possible points of tcmpernture and pressure jointly by points spread continuonsly iu a plane surface , each point in the plane being referred to of rectangular coordinates , so that ] of its shall represent the temperalure and other the pressure denoted by point , we may notice that there will be three expressiug the relation eell temperature and pressure for with l , another expressing that for gas with solid , and another that for liqnid with solid .
These three curves , it appears , must all nleet cl.oss each other in one point Prof. J. Thomson on the [ Dec. 11 , of pressure and temperature jointly , which may be called the triple point * .
The curve between gas and liquid , which may be called the boihng-line , will be a ting b between the regions of the plane corre- sponding to the ordinary liquid and those corresponding to the ordinary gaseous state .
But by consideration of Dr. Andrews 's experimental results ( Phil. Trans. 1869 ) , we may see that this separating boundary comes to an end at a point of temperature and pressure which , in conformity with his language , may be called the critical point of pressure and temperature jointly ; and we may see that , from any liquid state to any gaseous state , the transition may be gradually eflected by an infinite variety of courses round the extreme end of the boilingline The accompanying figure serves to illustrate these considerations in reference to transitions between the three states , the gaseous , the liquid , and the solid .
The figure is intended only as a sketch to illustrate prin , and is not drawn according to measurements for any particular substance , though the main features of the curves shown in it are meant to relate im a general way to the substance of water , steam , and ice .
A X and A are the axes of for temperatures and presIn making this statement , that it appears that the three curves must all cross each other in one point , I would wish to offer it here ( as I previously did in the 1871 BritishAssociation paper ) subject to some reserve in respect of conditions not yet known with perfect clearness and certainty .
I have to suggest that we might not be quite safe in assuming that , within a cavity containing nothing but pure water-substance partly gaseous , the melting temperature and pressure of ice solidified from the gaseous state would be the same as the melting temperature and pressure ofice frozen from the liquid state , and in making other suppositions , such as that the same quantity of heat would become latent in the melting of equal quantities of ice formed in these two ways , and in neglecting conoeivable but , I presume , as yet known distinctions ofcapillary conditions between ice amply wet with water and ice only with the last vestiges of water before the whole liquid may be either evaporated or frozen .
It might be a question in like manner whether we can be sur that there can be theoretically a condition of repose in a vity containing only perfectly pure -substance in which the three states are present together , each in contact with the other two , so that there would be ice partly wet with water , and partly dry in contact with gaseous water-substance , or -steam as it called , while the water and steam were also in contact with each other .
I offer these remarks by way of caution , they foroe themselves into notice when we attempt to sketch out the features of the three cllrves under considera tion , and because they may serve to suggest questions for experimental and theoretical investigation which have been generally overlooked before .
In the prosent paper , however , I prooeed on assumptions , such as are usually tacitly made , of identity in the thermal and dynamic conditions of pure ice solidified in different which , so far as is known , may be , and probably are , perfeotly true ; and I proceed on the supposition that there can be theoretically the condition of repose bere alluded to , of the solid , liquid , and gaseous states , present together each in contact with the other two\mdash ; and consequently that the three curves would meet or cross ewh other in one point , I have called the triple point .
Mention of this condition has been already made in a former paper by in the Proceedings of tho Royal Society , ' November 16 , 1871 , page 2 .
1873 .
] Gaseous , and Solid States of TVater .
snres ; , the origin , being taken the for as the zero for tenperatures on the Centigrade scale .
The the terminating in the critical E. The line represents the line liquid { solid .
It is in an degree the lowering of the freezin temperature of water by pressure , the exaggeration bein necessary to allow small changes of temperature to be perceptible in the diagram .
The line represents the line veen the gaseous and the solid states of watersubstance .
The line L appears to have been generally ( in the discussion of experimental results on the pressure of aqueous 1 npour above and below the freezing-point ) regarded as one continuous ; but it a part of my obiect in the British-Association pers referred to , to show that it ought to be considered two distinct I and crossing other in the triple point T. In the second of the two British-Association papers already referred to read Brighton Meeting , , I gave demonstrations showing that these two curves I and I should meet , as shown the accompanying figure , a -entrant angle at , not with a salient angle such as is exemplified in the vertex of a arch , and oifered in conclusion the suggestion that the reasoning which had been adduced might be followed up by a quantitative calculation founded on experimental data , by which calculation the difference of the pressures of steam with water and steam with ice for any given temperature very near the triple point may be found with a very close tion to the truth .
the onth of last October October ) I explained to my brother , Sir William Thomson , the nature of that coutemplated quantitative calculation : I mentioned to him the method which I had prepared for carrying out the intended tion , and inquired of him for some of the experimental data , or data already deduced by theor .
from expcri30 Prof. J. Thomson on the namical Tcould bbtained virectly aasily fsimple formula whichturned toticed tesired quantitative relationments , which , btain.ttention beiDnegc t tions of the Boyal Society of Edinburgh , March 17 , 1851 , S , to perature throughout , exposed to pressure equal in all directions .
express the second law of thermodynamics for a body of umform temThat formula is ; in which denotes the amount of the pressure , and its rate of increase per unit increase of temperature , the volume being kept constant ; denotes Carnot 's function ; and denotes the rate of absorption at which heat must be supplied to the substance per augmentation of volume , to let it expand without varying in temperature .
The body may be either homogeneous throughout , as a continuous solid , or liquid , or gas ; or it may be heterogeneous , as a mass of water and aqueous vapour ( .
steam ) , or ice and water , or ice and aqueous vapour steam ) .
Now apply that formula , 1st , to steam with water , and , 2nd , to steam with ice , the temperature of the heterogeneous body in each case being that of the triple point ; or we may , for the present purpose , say Centigrade , which is almost exactly the same .
It is to be observed that while in the general application of the formula the rate of increase of the pressure with increase of temperature , when the volume is kept constant , has been denoted by , yet in each of the two particular cases now brought under consideration , it is matter of indifference whether the volume be kept constant or not ; because the pressure of steam in contact either with water or with ice , for given temperature , is independent of the volume of the whole heterogeneous body ; so that the change of pressure for change of temperature is independent of whether there be change of volume or not .
As Ci is a function of the temperature which has the same value for all substances at the same temperature , it has the same value for the two cases now under consideration .
Hence , retaining for the first case ( that , namely , of steam with water ) the same notation as before , but modifying it by the use of an acoent where distinction is necessary in the second case ( that of steam with ice ) , and thus using to denote the rate of increase of the pressure per unit increase of temperature for steam with water triple point tigrade nearly ) , and to denote the rate of ption at which heat must be supphed to a body consisting of steam and water at the triple point , per unit ugmentation of volume of that whole heterogeneous , to Iet it expand without varying in temperature , and using 1873 .
] Gaseous , Liquid , and Solid States of Water .
and to denote the corresponding for steam with ice the triple point , we have The latent hent of evaporation of one pound of the freezingpoint triple iuto steam at the determined by RegnauIt , is thernlic mifs , the { hermic unit beiug here ils the old r one pound of one degres Centigrade ; { the latent hent of fnsiou of is or 79 of the same thermic lnits .
Hence , though belong each to cubic foot of steam the triple point , not to pound of it , still the rafio , is Hence This shows that for any small descent in temperature from the triple point ( where the pressnre of with ice is the that of steam with w , the pressurc of with ice falls ofl times as much as does the pressure of steftm In submitting the tive calculation now given , I have preferred to adopt the method proposed and developed by my brother rather than that which I hffi self previously devised , because his method is simpler , brings out the restllfs more briefly by established from existing dnta .
I may say , vever , thnt the method devised by myseIf was also a thod , and that I ince orked it out to its numerical results , have found that these are quite in accordnnce those brought out by my brother .
The two indeed be regnrded as being essentially of the same nature ; and I think it to occupy space by any details of the method I planned and carried out .
Its general char cter may be sufficiently gathered from the concluding passages of the British-Association 1872 paper , as printed in the Transactions of the Sections , Brighton Meeting .
In order to discover whether the ture now developed by theoretical considerations is to be found showing itself in any degree in the experimental rssults of Regnault on the pressures of steam at different temhave made careful examinations of his cngraved curve ( plate viii .
of his memoir ) , and of his empiricaI formulae adapted to fit very closely to the resuIts exhibited in that curve , of his , ' Des Fol.ccs Elastiques dc la Vapeur d'Ean aux lferentes !
tures Memoires de des Sciences , 1847 .
After telling ( page 581 ) of the great care with which he had marked the curve on the copper plate and got it emgraved , he says:\mdash ; " " Je n'ai pas pu e'viter cependant quelques petites irregularites dans les courbes ; mais un seule de ces irregularites me parait assez pour devoir etre signale'e .
Elle se pre'sente pour les basses tempe'ratures comprises entre Oo ; la courbe creuse trop verse l'axe des temp elle laisse , notablement au-dessus d'elle , toutes les determinations experimentales qui ont ete faites entre et .
Ainsi les valeurs , que cette petite portion de la courbe donne pour les foroes e'lastiques , sont un peu trop faibles , et j'ai eu soin de les augmenter , de la quantite convenable , les nombres que je donnerai plus loin Whether we are now to think that this bend downwards*of the curve towards the axis of temperatures , involving what Regnault rded as a small faulty rture of his drawn curve from his actuffi experiments , was introduced merely by a casual want of accuracy in drawing , or whether we may suppose that possibly there may have been some observations which attracted the curve downwards , but were afterwards reiected on a supposition of their being lstworthy , it appears that such a bend is a feature which the curve really ought to possess , is one which even fter being partially smoothed off by way of correction is not obliterated , but remains clearlydiscoverable in the final numerical tables of results .
This is best brought to light by of the empirical formulae devised and employed by Regnault for the collating of his resuIts .
He proceeded evidently under the idea of the continuous in its nature , so that a single formula might represent the pressures of aqueous vapour throughout the whole of his experiments ; but before seeking for such a formula he proceeded to calculate several local fornlulae of which each should represent very exactly his experiments between limits of temperature not wide apart ; and he worked out several general formulae , each adapted singly for the whole range of his experiments .
* In M. l\amp ; gnauIt 's curve the temperatures are meitsured horizontally across sheet , and pressurss are measured upwards .
1873 .
] Gaseons , Liquid , and Solid States of TVatcr .
3,3 to the one of these formlae which 1 forJnula ( , he it the bregate of his deternliIlations of the pressnres of the ) of refcl.red to the mometer , extreme temperittures of -3 and ilh such precision that there could llot be { hope of to representiog them better by other , of beciLuse the differences , hc the numbers tJld the numbers from his graphic constructions { lIcr i probablo errors of Still , out his general Table of pressures of steanl degrec of the thernlolne to , he used thrco local formulae , that by them he could get slighlly closer nith his tions { by the orllltla ( for the hole he tHed his formula nted frolu 0 to he nsed his formuh ( D ) ; and he ( H ) .
JIc points out that he might this hout Glltire extent single mula , that he ou thns got almosf the sfime } lucs by it from ] to as by the mula ( , and the pressmes ) en by the forInultt ( old be slighIy too indicittion of the existence of the featurc it m.y object { present to bring into tUld Ition of column of Diifelences in tult s on his the pressures got from iJnents { expressed by those got from the formula ( lI ) , shon 's distinctly ftrc-enfrtllt{ angle , or at least a llCc place , the at or other comparisons , by means of oel , gi tlons ; but most of these miLy for brevity be ssed o mention here .
The most tion comcs ont .
We cellf to point extending both ffiopfed best to his periments the formula for nres d from , and the formula ( D ) for tenlpcl.atures { scending from tried pages memoir ) the of the lion of his formuh ( D ) beyond the inferior of the liits l00o , which he had specially nimed adapting it to his minations ; and he found that in lculating by it the pressurcs 11 hich it ould give for temperittures below , these pressures comc ollt slightly in excess of those }which vere given by his experiments .
I ] ) developed this mode of comparison in more complete lmer , arrived at kable resuIts .
The bc ardod as This and other ) in M. emoir a ] lere refcrred to by letters of reference , because to cite the ncccssilry panying explanations , would eXtClld the ) rescnt paper to too 'nny person to Hcrutinize the old n prefcr to roconrsc Io the original memoir .
XX11 .
J ) 34 Prof. J. Thomson on the [ Dec. 11 , formula for giving the pressure of steam with water , and ( E ) as that : for giving the pressure for with ice .
Ihe following two Tables show the pressures and for temperatures , in each case , both below and above the freezing-point , as calculated from these two formulae ; and they show , also in case , the consequent differences of pressure for 1o of temperature at several different temperatures , or , what is the same , the values of and , for several temperatures slightly above and slightly below the freezing-point .
TABLE I. By Formula ( D ) ; Steam with Water .
TABLE II .
By Formula ( E ) ; Steam with Ice .
73 .
] Liquid , and Solid States of Water .
85 these two Tables we obtain the following values of as uced from Regnault 's formuhs ( D ) .
This gives the the value of nbout or ; while its value brought out in the earlier part of the present paper by my blother 's quantitative culation was so the feature expected itself here iu Reguault 's results almost in the full extent in which theory that it ought to exist .
liegniLult in the same memoir ( page 627 and pages ) another Table , one intended chiefly for meteorological , and which the pressures are stated from -1 to for of degree .
In this Table the numbers inserted as representing the the freezing-point al.e slightly different from the ones in his general Iable already referred to ; and he meIltions t fhis slight discrepance resulted from the fact that the Tables formed at different periods , and were not the mula ; but he remarks that the differences al.e insignific they reely millimetre .
Here , too , as in the general Table , the featu ] expected itself , though in inished degrcc examiuation of its of rences for of } ) makiug a few snlall ) be errors or imperfections .
It may now , in conclusion , be rked t if experiments pendent of those which have been made , or may be made , directly on the pressure of aqueous at diffel'eut temperatures near the freezingpoint , both above and below it , very correct of the values of the quantities , and be made , such determinations lead to more correct evaluations of for aqueous pour i contact in the one case with liquid water , and in the other with ice , than at present possess .
Such determinations , we presume would , if very trustworthily rrived at , collduce to the attainment $ : more correct estimate of the density of steam at the freezing-point ( or ak : .
the triple point ) than we now possess .
In fttct , connexion wilth subject which has been here under , there are va1'lous portant quantities so connected that determinations of ome more of them may lead to more correct luations of others .

