]\gt ; 1882 .
] On certain Geometrical Theorems .
given off from the thin , exogenous , Xylem zone which ; the medulla , whilst at the same points the continuity of the Xylem is interrupted .
as was also the case with the Dadoxylons , by an extension of the medullary cells into the primitive cortex .
Sections of the petiolar bases of the leaf-scales of the bud show that these bundles enter each petiole in parallel pairs , subsequently subdividing and ramifying in the Adiantiform leaf .
This curious resemblance between Salisburia and Dadoxylon , accompanied as it is by othe ] .
resemblances in the structure of the wood , bark , and medulla , suggest the probability thal our British Dadoxylon was a Carboniferous plant of Salisburian type , of which Trigonocarpum may well have been the fruit .
If so , the further ibility suggests itself that this plant may have been the ancestral form whence sprang the Baieras of the Oolites , and , through them , the true of Cretaceous and of recent times .
The Society adjourlled over sion Day to Thursday , .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
Mr. Bindon Blood Stony was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On certain Geometrical Theorems .
No. 2 By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.R. .
Beceived May 10 , 1882 .
( 4 ) The is a short method of determining collic of 5 pointic-contact with a iven curve .
Write the conic . . . . . .
( 1 ) , then differentiating four times and wl.itingD for , we have , membering that the four first differential coefficients of the two curvei , coincide , \mdash ; . . .
( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , , certain Geometrical Theorems .
[ May 25 , whence and then are found from ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , and collic determined .
5 .
) Let us now endeavour to show how the equation to the cubic with 9-pointic contact with a given is to be found .
the cubic we diffel.elltiate eight times and obtain five equations which have disappeared .
with foul othel .
S obtained by substituting in this equation successively .
Hence we shall have\mdash ; , 1882 .
] W. Spottiswoode .
Geometrical Theore ?
.37 In the same way are determined , and then are known from the third , second , first , and original equations .
In the same way we may proceed to find the 14-pointic contact of a curve of the fourth order .
The coefficients will be expressed by series of determinants , each having eight rows and eight columns , divided by a detorminant having nine rows and nine columns .
And the same method will apply to the general case .
II .
" " Note on Mr. Russell 's paper 'On certain Geometrical Theorems .
No. 2.\ldquo ; ' By WILLIAII SPOTTISWOODE , Pres. B.S. Received May 25 , 1882 .
If we apply .
Russell 's formulae to the determination of the sextactic points of a curve , we shall have , in addition to the equations ( 1 ) , the following\mdash ; and by elimination of a and from his and ( 5 ) , together with this latter , we shall obtain as the condition for a sextactic point\mdash ; . . . .
( A ) .
But

