III .
" On a momentary Molecular Change in Iron Wire .
" By G. GoaE , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1868 .
WVhilst making some experiments of heating a strained iron wire to redness by meatns of a current of voltaic electricity , I observed that , on disconnecting the battery and allowing the wire to cool , during the process of cooling the wire suddenly elongated , and then gradually shortened until it became quite cold .
On attempting , some little time afterwards , to repeat this experiment , although a careful record of the conditions of the experiment had been kept , it was with some difficulty , and after numerous trials , that I succeeded in obtaining the same result .
Having again obtained it , I next examined and determined the successfiul conditions of the experiment , and devised the following arrangement of apparatus .
AA ( fig. 1 ) is a wooden base 61 centimetres long and 15'5 centimetres wide .
B and C are binding-screws ; they are provided with small brass mercury-cups fixed in the heads of the screws for attachment of the wires of a voltaic battery .
D is a binding-screw for holding fast the sliding wire hook E. F is a cylindrical binding-screw , fixed to the sliding wire G , which is held fast by the binding-screw B. H is the iron or other wire ( or ribbon ) to be heated : one end of this wire passes through the screw F and is tightly secured by it , whilst the other end is held fast by the cylindrical binding-screw I ; the binding-screw I has a small projecting bent piece of copper wire secured to it , which dips into a little shallow dish or cup of mercury , J ; and the mercury in this cup is connected by a screw and strip of brass to the binding-screw C. K is a stretched band of vulcanized india-rubber , attached at one end to the hook of the wire E , and Mr. G. Gore on a momentary at the other end to the hook L ( see fig , 2 ) .
The cylindrical bindingscrew I has a hook by which it is attached to the loop M ( fig. 2 ) .
N is an axis suspended delicately upon centres , and carrying a very light index pointer 0 .
The hook L and loop M are separate pieces of metal , and move freely upon an axis , P ( fig. 2 ) .
The distance from the centre of the axis N to that of P is 12*72 millimetres(=0'5 inch ) , and to the top of the index pointer 25 45 centimetres ( = 10'0 inches ) ; every movement horizontally , therefore , of the loop M3 is attended by a movement , twenty times the amount , of the top of the pointer .
Q is a screw for supporting the axis N. I have found it convenient to put the zero-figure of the index towards the left-hand side of the index-plate .
It is a separate piece of wood fitting into a rectangular hole in the base board ; it carries a graduated rule , 8 , for measuring the length of the wire to be heated , and is easily removed , so that the wire may , if necessary , be heated by means of a row of Bunsen 's burners .
The rule T is used when measuring the amount of strain .
U is a vertical stud or pin of brass ( of which there are two ) for limiting the range of movement of the pointer 0 .
In using this apparatus , a straight wire or ribbon , H , of a suitable length and thickness was inserted , the index pointer brought to 0 by adjustment of the sliding-wire G , and a suitable amount of strain ( varying from less than two ounces to upwards of twenty ) put upon the wire by adjusting the sliding hooked wire E. One pole of a voltaic battery , generally consisting of six Grove 's elements , was connected with the binding-screw C , and the other pole then inserted in the mercury-cup of B. As soon as the needle O attained a maximum or stationary amount of deflection , the battery-wire was suddenly removed from B , and the wire allowed to cool .
The movement of the needle O was carefully watched both during its movement to the right hand and also during its return , to see if any irregularity of motion occurred .
Wires of the following metals and alloys were employed:-palladium , platinum , gold , silver , copper , iron , lead , tin , cadmium , zinc , brass , germansilver , aluminium , and magnesium ; metallic ribbon was also employed in certain cases .
In these experiments the thickness and length of the conducting-wire or ribbon had to be carefully proportioned to the quantity and electromotive power of the current , so as to produce in the first experiments with each metal only a very moderate amount of heat ; thinner ( and sometimes also shorter ) wires were then successively used , so as ultimately to develope sufficient heat to make the metal closely approach its softening or fisionpoint .
The battery employed consisted in each case of six Grove 's cells , each ; cell containing two zinc plates 3a inches wide , and a platinum plate 3 inches wide , each immersed about 5 inches in their respective liquids .
The amount of tension imparted by the elastic band required to be carefully adjusted to the cohesive power of each metal ; if the stretching power was too weak , the phenomenon sought for was not clearly deve loped ; and if too great , the wire was overstretched or broken when it approached the softening-point .
The amount of strain imparted was approximately measured by temporarily substituting the body of a small spring balance for the hooked wire F. The heated wire must be protected from currents of cold air .
With wires of iron 0'65 millimetre thick ( size " No. 23 " ) and 21'5 centimetres long , strained to the extent of 10 ounces or more , and heated to full redness , the phenomenon was clearly developed .
As an example , the needle of the instrument went with regularity to 18'5 of index-plate ; the current was then stopped ; the needle instantly retreated to 17'75 , then as quickly advanced to 19'75 , and then went slowly and regularly back , but not to zero .
If the temperature of the wire was not sufficiently high , or the strain upon the wire not enough , the needle went directly back without exhibiting the momentary forward movement .
The temperature and strain required to be sufficient to actually stretch the wire somewhat at the higher temperature .
A higher temperature with a less degree of strain , or a greater degree of strain with a somewhat lower temperature , did not develope the phenomenon .
The wire was found to be permanently elongated on cooling .
The amount of elongation of the wire during the momentary molecular change was usually about 2 part of the length of the heated part of the wire ; but it varied in different experiments ; it was greatest in amount when the maximum degrees of strain were applied .
The molecular change evidently includes a diminution of cohesion at a particular temperature during the process of cooling ; and it is interesting to notice that at the same temperature during the heating-process no such loss of cohesion ( nor any increase of cohesion ) takes place ; a certain temperature and strain are therefore not alone sufficient to produce it ; the condition of cooling must also be included .
The phenomena which occur during cooling are not the exact converse of those which take place during heating .
The phenomenon of elongation of iron wire during the process of cooling evidently lies within very narrow limits ; it could only be obtained ( with the particular battery employed ) with wires about 21'5 centimetres ( =8-7 inch ) long , and about 0-65 millimetre ( =Nos .
22 &amp; 23 of ordinary wire-gauge ) thick , having a strain upon them of 10 ounces or upwards ; with a weaker battery the phenomenon could only be obtained by employing a shorter and thinner wire .
The experiment may easily be verified in a simpler manner by stretching an iron wire about 1.0 millimetre diameter between two fixed supports , keeping it in a sufficient and proper degree of tension by means of an elastic band , then heating it to full redness by means of a row of Bunsen 's burners , and , as soon as it has stretched somewhat , suddenly cutting off the source of heat .
In some experiments of this kind , with a row ( 42 centimetres long ) of 21 burners and a row ( 76 centimetres long ) of 43 burners , and the wire attached to a needle with index-plate , as in the figure , conspicuous effects were obtained ; but the momentary elongation was relatively much less ( in one instance g of the length of the heated part ) than when a battery was employed , apparently in consequence of the wire being less intensely heated .
A large number of experiments were made with wires of palladium , platinum , gold , silver , copper , lead , tin , cadmium , zinc , brass , german-silver , aluminium , and magnesium ( wire and ribbon ) , diminishing the length and thickness of the wire in each case , and adjusting the tension until suitable temperature and strain were obtained ; but in no instance could a similar molecular change to that observed in iron be detected .
Palladium and platinum wires of different lengths , thickness , and degrees of strain were examined at various temperatures , up to that of a white heat ; but no irregularity of cohesion , except that of gradual softening at the higher temperatures , was observed ; they instantly contracted with regular action on stopping the current .
Several gold wires were similarly examined at different temperatures up to that of a full red heat ; no irregularity occurred either during heating or cooling ; but little tension ( about 4 ounces ) was applied , on account of the weak cohesion of this metal .
Wires of silver similarly examined would only bear a strain of about 2 ounces , and a temperature of feeble red heat visible in daylight ; no irregularity of elongation or contraction occurred during heating and cooling .
By employing exactly the proper temperature and strain , a very interesting phenomenon was observed ; the wire melted distinctly on its surface without fusing in its interior , although the surface was most exposed to the cooling influence of the air ; this occurred without the wire breaking , as it would have done if its interior portion had melted ; the phenomenon indicates the passage of the electricity by the surface of the wire in preference to passing by its interior .
Wires of copper expanded regularly until they became red-hot ; they then contracted slightly ( notwithstanding the strain applied to them ) , probably in consequence of a cooling effect of increased radiation produced by the oxidized surface , as a similar effect occurred with brass and germansilver ' .
On stopping the current the wire contracted without manifest irregularity .
Wires of lead and tin were difficult to examine by this method , on account of their extremely feeble cohesion and the low temperature at which they softened : wires about 1'63 millimetre diameter , 25-5 centimetres long ( with a strain upon them of about one ounce ) , were employed ; no irregularity was detected .
Wires of cadmium from 1'255 millimetre to 1 525 millimetre thick , and 24'2 centimetres long ( with a strain of two ounces ) , exhibited a slight irregularity of expansion at the lower temperatures ; they elongated , and also cooled , with extreme slowness , more slowly than those of any other metal .
Wires of zinc exhibited a slight irregularity of expansion , like those of cadmium ; the most suitable ones were about 25 centimetres long and 1'2 millimetre in diameter , with a strain of 10 ounces .
Wires of brass and german-silver , when heated to redness , ' This supposition does not agree with the results obtained with iron wire , which also oxidizes freely .
behaved like those of copper in expanding regularly until a maximum was attained , and then contracting slightly to a definite point whilst the battery remained connected ; on stopping the current they contracted without irregularity .
When examined at lower temperatures , with a greater degree of strain , no irregularity was observed .
Various wires of aluminium were examined ; the most suitable was one 0'88 millimetre thick , 20'4 centimetres long , with a strain of 12 ounces ' ; no irregularity was observed at any temperature below redness ; aluminium expanded and cooled very slowly , but less so than cadmium .
Various wires and ribbon of magnesium were also examined below a red heat , but no irregularity of cohesion , except that due to gradual softening by heat , was detected .
All the metals examined exhibited gradual loss of cohesion at the higher temperatures if a suitable strain was applied to develope it .
It is probable that if the fractions of time occupied by the needle in passing over each division of the index were noted , and the wire perfectly protected from currents of air , small irregularities of molecular or cohesive change might be detected by this method ; cadmium and zinc offer a prospect of this kind .
This molecular change would probably be found to exist in large masses of wrought iron as well as in the small specimens of wire which I have examined , and would come into operation in various cases where those masses are subjected to the conjoint influence of heat and strain , as in various engineering operations , the destruction of buildings by fire , and other cases .

