]\gt ; Artificial Double Re .
xction , to Bolotropic Distribution , with Application to Colloidal utions agnetic Fields .
By T. H. HAVELOCK , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of Sb .
John 's Cambridge .
( Communicated by Professor J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received November 17 , 1905 , \mdash ; Read January 25 , 1906 .
) In 1902 Majorana*described some new ects observed on placing in a uniform magnetic field certain solutions of dialysed iron , such as that of .
The solution was found to become doubly refracting like a positive or ative uniaxal crystal , with its axis parallel to the lines of magnetic force .
A formal theory of the phenomena given by consisted in adding to the ordinary electrical equations tents of the second order , representing the action of the magnetic field upon the natural vibrations of the medium .
Previously to these experiments , Kerl a negative double refraction in submitting to a netic field a medium composed of pure water invisibly fine particles of ] , his explanation of the effect being that the particles might bc supposed to join ether into filaments lines of ynetic force .
It appears to be in this direction that the explanation of the phenomena is to be found .
For noticed that the effect could only be obtained in colloidal solutions , and in recent \mdash ; of which preliminary accounts have been published\mdash ; Cotton and have determined experimentally that the effect is connected with the presence of ultramicroscopic particles ; it is supposed that the ction is due to orientation of these particles in the nlagnetic field .
The present ation 1 ) , then , with the assumption that the to bs considered occur in colloilal solutions , consisting optically of a continuous medium , in which is imbedded a number of extremely minute spherical obstacles .
lirst the manner of producing a strain in such a mediuln , the packing of the obstacles is supposed to be disturbed from the cubical of the natural state .
'Accademia dei Lincei , ' vol. 1 ] , 1 , ) .
, 1902 .
dei incei , Rendiconti , ' vol. 11 , 1 , , 1902 .
'Brit .
Assoc. Report , ' , p. 508 .
' Allnale der ysik vol. 12 , ] ) .
, 1903 .
ompteb 1 ' vol. 141 , pp. 317 and 349 , 1905 .
Artificial Double action , due Eolotropic Distribution .
171 The first section consists of a discussion of the optical properties of this medium , following Lord flayleigh 's investigation , *except that the calculations are carried out for the eneral c of arrangement in rectangular order , instead of for the usual case of cubical order ; expressions are obtained for the indices of action and absorption of the medium in the three principal directions .
The second section deals with the production of the strain by means of stress , and contains a discussion of various experimental results , which show that colloidal solutions may be regarded as certain amount of rigidity .
Finally , in a third section , the action of a magnetic field is considered .
The object of the paper is to point out the reement in general character of the effects obtained by mechanical stress and by magnetic action , and their representation by the formal theory of the first section .
1 .
of Spherical Obstacles in Rectangular Orde It is necessary to repeat briefly some of Lord Bayleigh 's analysis .
The equivalent problem is considered at first of steady flow of electric current through a medium of unit specific conductivity , interrupted by spherical obstacles of conductivity , arranged in rectangular order .
Suppose the radius of a sphere is , and the side of the rectangle in the direction of flow is , the two other sides .
Theu it is required to find , the specific conductivity of the compound medium in the direction .
If we take the centre of one of the spheres as origin of polar co-ordinates , the potential external to the sphere may be expanded in the series , ( 1 ) and at points internal to the sphere in the series .
( 2 ) being the spherical surface harmonic of order The conditions at the surface of the sphere are ; .
( 3 ) From these , by equating coeflicients of nilar orders , we find .
( 4 ) Now in general , ( 5 ) 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 4 , p. 19 .
Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Double [ Nov. 17 , where , ( 6 ) measured from the axis of ( parallel to ) , and from the plane of .
From considerations of symmetry , it is seen must be even , and that ( except for zero ) should be revelsed when is to Thus , even values of do not occur , nor do sine terms in .
Hence we have ; ; Also , when , we have in addition ; ; apply Green 's theorem , to the boundary of the space between the sphere and the surface of a rectangular parallelopiped , with placed symmetrically between the spheres , : and take The four faces parallel to the planes and are , from symmetry , made up of lines of flow of the current ; hence , on these , both and are Further , let the total current across the face , and the fall in potential , the the contribution of the two remaining faces to the integral in is Also , on the sphere , we have ; ; thus the integral over the face of the sphere , gives .
Hence we have .
( 8 ) potential at any point may be due to external sources at infinity ( by which ) llow is can$ed ) , and to lnultiple sources ab the centres of the spheles ; we may denote the part by .
Further , in ccount of tho lnultiple sources , we must suppose th the sys of obstacles , } fini t in every direction , is yct infinitely lorc extended in the direction than in the directions the ] ) eriodic difference of ) llay be considered as entirely du to II and put to 1905 .
] Refraction , due to Bolotropic Distribution .
Then from ( 8 ) we have ( 9 ) and the required specific conductivity is iven by .
Now consider the potential at a point ) near the sphere , whose centre is the origin of co-ordinates .
The potential due to and to the other spheres yarded as multiple sources is given by part of expression ( 1 ) , ; but if be the same point referred to oue of the spheres , the potential due to these spheres must be given also by a summation : Hence we have .
( 11 ) Let be the coordinates of referred to , so that .
The left-hand side of ( 11 ) is the expansion of the in ascending powers of .
Thus is formed by of the -hand side and making zero , and so on .
Now , at the origin , , where Similarly , ; .
from comparison of terms in ( 11 ) we have ( 12 ) In each of the quantities , such as , the summation extends to all the points whose co-ordinates are of the form , where are any set of integers , positive or fative , except .
Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Artificial Double [ Nov. 17 , From ( 12 ) and ( 4 ) we get .
( 1.3 ) Supplying this value in ( 10 ) the value of the conductivity can be calcalated .
We shall carry the approximation only as far as to calculate the value of the quantity .
We have .
( 14 ) Now we have considered the system of obstacles to be infinitely more extended in the direction than in the directions and ; thus we must the summation as made up of two parts , and .
In the summation extends over the region between the sets of planes given by ( i ) ; ; ; ( ii ) ; ; ; where ultimately is made small so as to exclude the origin only , and may be increased indefinitely .
In the summation extends over the region bounded by the planes ; ; ; To evaluate and we shall suppose are very small , the number of obstacles in any small space being very .
Then the summation may be replaced by integration , putting we have from ( 14 ) \amp ; where the limits of the ration are to be anged in the manner specified .
On this out , it is easily found that is zero , and \ldquo ; .
( 15 ) JIence from ( 13 ) and ( 10 ) we find .
1905 .
] Refraction , due to olotropic Distribution .
If we write proportional volume occupied by the spheres , we have .
( 16 ) In .
this formula to wave propagation , it is necessary to assume the wave-length to be large compared with the lengths specifying the structure of the medium .
Tben if refrnctive index for the spheres , , , , , for the surrounding , , , , for the compound medium for vibrations parallel to the direction we .
( 17 ) The indices , are in general different from each other ; but if are all equal , so that the obstacles are in cubical order , we have and in this case ( 17 ) reduces to the usual form , .
( 18 ) Equation ( 17 ) may be compared with an empirical formula , which has been used in expressing the relation between refractive index and density , viz. :\mdash ; constant .
We shall consider now the case in which , where is small .
The medium is supposed to be such that while there are many small spheres to wave-length , yet the proportional volume is small .
We may also , for further illustration , suppose the spheres to possess some power ; to express this we replace by the complex quantity becomes ( 19 ) Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Artificial Double [ Nov. 17 , To the second order in this gives .
( 20 ) And for , the index for vibrations parallel to the direction , we have a similar expression with If we put then These give , to the second order in p ) the values .
( 22 ) Similarly , for vibrations parallel to , ( 23 ) .
( 24 ) Further , if quantities suffix zero correspond to a similar medium with the same concentration , but with the spheres arranged in cubical order , we have .
( 26 ) Then from these expressions we obtain the results:\mdash ; or , to the same approximation , .
( 27 ) And , , we have also ; Hence the lnedium baves like uniaxal crystal with the direction for its optic axis .
The index of refraction for the extraordinary ray is , while is the ordinary index ; the double refraction is proportiontd to , and the crystal is positive or as is greater or less than 1905 .
] fraction , due to olotropic Distribution .
Now we have supposed the alteration in the structure to be small ; thus we have .
( 28 ) Thus the double refraction has the value .
( 29 ) The birefiingence with , and is positive ; hence if the original medium in cubical order be relatively contracted the direction it becomes a positive uniaxal crystal , while if it be relatively extended it becomes a negative crystal .
Further , we have Hence , from we have Thus if the double refraction is ative , the diminntion in index for vibrations parallel to the axis is double the increase in in dex for vibrations perpendicular to the axis ; and conversely if the medium becomes a posilive crystal , the extraordinary index in both cases the greater change .
Also the medium becomes selectively , since we find .
( 31 ) Thus if the double refraction is positive , vibrations parallel to the axis are more absorbed than those at angles to the axis ; and conversely if the medium is oative .
In either case the more slowly .
waves the greater absorption , and unequal absorption ives rise to an apparent rotation of the plane of polarisation .
2 .
Double Produced by JTechanical Stress .
In 1866 Maxwell* obtained double refraction in a jelly of by means of mechanical stress .
The substance was poured , when hot , between 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 43 .
Dr. T. H. Havelock .
Donble [ Nov. 17 , two coaxial cylinders ; one of these was twisled , and the jelly viewed by polarised paralled to the ttxis of the cylinders .
There was found to be a difference of tion of opposiCely polarised ray due to the shearing stress at any point in the jelly , and further the of polarisation of thel.ays were inclined at to the radius to the } ) oint .
addition , if the force of torsion was continued while the jelly cooled and was then removed , the double refraction still peasisted .
Maxwell also itoticed later a similar effect with Canada balsam , and the subject has been studied furthel by Kundt , Metz , Umlauf , and Almy ; S the point of importance in these nents is that quite dilute solutions were used , and that the effect was clearly ) served with colloids in solution , but could not be detected with crystalloids .
In 1889 Schwedoff observed directly , by a tol.sion balance , the existence of oidity in certain liquids , and in the case of a dilute solution of gelatine found for the modulus of rigidity the value dyne per square centimetre ; he also remarks that a liquid may be very and yet have a measurable rigidity .
De Metz , the double refraction of liquids nnder stress , showed that the o1der of nitude of the in different liquids is not the same as the order of their viscosity .
In a later paper he measures the time taken for the disappearance of the double refraction removal of the stress , and , with some assumptions , calculates therefrom , modulus of rigidity ; for copal varnish he arrives at the value dyne per square centimetre , which is of the same order of magnitude result .
Some experiments by on double refraction in may be considered in more detail .
The liquid was contained in a cast-iron chcst , ithin which were two parallel cylinders , external to one another and capable of rotation .
The liquid was viewed by polarised light passing parallel to the cylinders in the space between them , and the double refraction due to tring stress produced by rotating ; the cylinders was measured by a hadc 1 which allotYed very effects to be detected .
The results were obtained with dilute solutions of gelatine .
For small velocities of the cylinders the donble refraction increases with ' Wied .
Ann vol. 13 , p. 110 , ] 'Wied .
Avol .
35 , p. 497 , 1888 .
( Wied .
Ann vol. 4 p. 304 , 1892 .
S 'Phil .
Mag vol. 44 , p. 409 , 1897 .
'Paris ) ) , vol. 1 , p. ptes Rend .
, ) vol. 136 , p. 604 , 1903 .
Phil. Mag vol. 48 , ) , p. ; also ol .
2 , ) , 1901 .
the speed of rotation , nob in proportion to it .
This increase continues up to tain point , when elastic limit seems to be reached ; beyond this point the amount of double decreases and finally changes sign as velocity is incrcnsed .
This result of a ximum effect , with subsequent also served with static strains , : even with a very dilute jelly , lnlost as flnid as , double efraction obtained ) , stress .
With solutions of crystalloids no effect could ) letecled .
] ' ) of ( louble cbion appeared to be proportional to the ( also varied much with the previous history of any iven solution .
The results may be classified , comparison , under three } ) 1 .
Very dilnte solution weak posive effect vithont r 2 .
tion with positive effect passing through a maximum point of reversal to a tttive effect which ieases with the stress .
Solutionl with same concentration as but , after heated itnd cooled , larger positiye effect with point of rersion at higher speed .
Using more concentrated gelatine solutions , Leick*has found that the double refraction is proportional to the product of the ] ative eation a the tion , while the modulus of elasticity varies ] ) a , s the square of the concentration .
Tn these various results the strain theory of previous section , we notice also remark made by lrer , and lon .
ago ) that on slightly a elatine stion , the transverse tion is one-half the extension the volume dilatation igible .
Hence it } ) pears that we may colloidal solution idity , or resistance to shearing strain .
Considel the application of essure , , to two opposite faces of ) of such a substance ; if is the modulus of rigidity , have the contractio ] ] , and the lateral equad to we found the double refraction to ) tion t to , and in we should have to .
Thus , if the lnodulus of idity i proportional to the concentl.ation , the double refractionl also varies as the concentration , that is , within the elastic limits .
Experiment shows that after a certain amount of shearing the structure breaks ) ve effect sets in .
'Ann .
der Physik , ' vol. 14 , p. 139 , ) Wied .
VOL. LXXVII .
[ Nov. 17 , ctioji f to Frclrl .
Ile the results in this case with those for mechanical we may notic confirmation of some } of the first section in all observation by Cotton and uton , ) to obtaiJl liquids active enough to the following Tcsullt:\mdash ; A hollow prism filled with the liquid is } between the poles of ( and a ray of monochrolnati( light passes the ) the field is put on , the ray is into components pola1ised at ngles lo each ) , the components are placed on opposite of the nitiye r ] ) unsymmetrically ; the vibrations parallel to } lines force a diminution of index about double the increase of the index for perpendicular vibrations .
This holds for a negative double a positive effect the positions of the components reversed , vibrations parallel , field still the more the But thi preciselv the result obtained in , is positive for a positive double ction .
the vnri tion of the effect the field strength , solutions lnny be classed under various types , due ori , ll orana and extended Cotton Ionton .
then the .
types:\mdash ; 1 .
A very weak ) ositiye ) ffect , increasing htly with the field H. 2 .
A similar tative effect . .
A positive efecl , with of , increasing a to a point of inversion ( ative : for ] values of , the ative effect varying npproximately 4 .
A bolution large positive almost as and hout inversion .
tion positive ffecf , increases rapidly first \mdash ; Profe$hol ] ) oints ) th more receLtl Cotton and have a laniltio of this result to the de ich not .
he also points out that the $:rtle result follows , in more procedure ( , ' TraIlS , vol. 190 , , 232 , by the local ) ction on molecule to arise a distribution ( an containing molecule , now ellipsoidal inste of ical .
] 1905 .
] Refraction , due to Bolotropic Distribution .
with , and then becoming almost constant , but increasing slightly with the field .
6 .
A similar negative effect .
Consider now the stress due to a netic field in a medium of magnetic susceptibility .
It is known that the mechanical stress in the medium is composed of two parts , one proportional to and another proportional to and since is small in the fluid media under consideration , the secon term may be neglected .
Also can be found for the compound medium by the same analysis as was used for finding the refractive index ; in fact , if the magnetic permeability of the simple medium be unity and that of a spherical obstacle be , we have to the first order in Thus may be positive or negative according as the spherical particles are para-or netic with respect to the surrounding medium .
Then from ( 29 ) we have for the double refraction , .
( 32 ) Now is proportional to , and if , as in Leick 's experiments , the idity varies as , we have the double refraction varying as the concentration .
For the variation of the double refraction with the sign of , we have the solutions given in and 6 ; type 5 , with a positive effect : was an iron colloidal solution prepared by Bredig 's method , while type 6 was a solution containing calcium carbonate .
We have also the ving considerations from ( 32 ) .
If , by reason of strong concentration or large field strength , the conditions are such that the rigidity is constant for variations of in the region considered , then the double refraction varies as the square of ; this applies to type 3 for the negative effect with large values of , and to type 4 for the large positive effect obtained after continued heating of the solution .
In the of inversion , when such occurs , varies with the ] as in the phenomenon with mechanical stress .
The physical cause of such an inversion is obscure ; but it is conceivable , with the particular kind of medium , that when the structure has broken down after a certain deformation , further externally-applied pressure in reality relieves some internal stress .
In the two cases of mechanical stress and netic action a further connection is obtained if one studies the persistence of the effects after the excitin cause has been removed .
Cf .
Larmor , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 52 , p. 63 , 1892 .
VOL. LXXVII.\mdash ; A. Prof W. Burnside .
[ Dec. 15 , In conclusion , the sections of the present paper may be summarised as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
The formal investigation of artificial double refraction in ( , olloidal solutions as due to a deformation of the medium of a in the packing of the colloidal particles .
2 .
The possibility that such deformation may be produced by mechanical stress as arising from the possession of a certain amount of idity by such solutions .
3 .
The analogy between the effects so produced and the double refraction due to a netic field .
On the Simple Group of Order 25920 .
By W. BURNSIDE , Received December Read nuary 2 To discuss the properties of a of finite order some concrete form of representation of the group is necessary , except perhaps in the simplest cases .
What are called the abstract defining relations ( viz. , a system of relations of the form , . . .
between a system of -commutative symbols , P ) , .
which are necessary and sufficient to ensure that only a finite number of distinct products can be formed from them ) no doubt contain implicitly in the most concise form all the properties of the ) roup .
estal)lish t properties , however , on this basis is not in general practicable .
For every roup there are an infinite variety of possible concrete ) resentations ; and in general for an adequate discussion of the properties of the group several of them have to be made use of .
In a limited class of cftses , , several groups of great importance in analysis , a esenlation its a group of spacecollineations is available .
In all such cases it would be expected that this form of representation , as affording scope for space-intuition , would certainly be one of those chosen for discussion .
Except , however , as regards the so-called groups of the regular solids , groups of rotations round a point , this has not been done .
It is osed in this melnoir to discuss the simple roup of order )

