VIII .
" Copy of a Despatch addressed to Her Majesty 's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs by the British Consul at Canea , Crete , giving an account of an Earthquake which took place in that Island .
" Communicated by the Lord STANLEY , F.R.S. Received October 17 , 1867 .
Canea , Crete , September 23 , 1867 .
MY LORD , -I have the honour to acquaint your Lordship that two shocks of earthquake were felt here at 5~ on the afternoon of the 19th instant , and again on the following morning , after an interval of twelve hours .
The latter shock was severe , and lasted about ten seconds .
The oscillations were horizontal , and appeared to proceed from east to west .
Several houses have been'cracked and otherwise damaged , and one of the old Venetian galley-arches fell sideways in a block , killing a Turkish sentry and a hospital attendant .
A remarkable phenomenon occurred that morning soon after the earthquake .
The sea receded at the rate of about ten inches per minute , until , attaining a maximum depression of some four feet , it gradually rose again above its former level .
The water in the wells was affected in the same degree , and on rising it became much agitated .
At 53 A.M. the sea-water was tepid , with a temperature of 87 ?
( Fahr. ) , being equal to that of the air .
The morning was unusually still and sultry , and it was not until the afternoon that the sea subsided into its normal condition , tempered by a cool northerly breeze .
A strong eddy had set in , causing much damage to shipping , several of the smaller craft parting their cables and coming into collision with each other .
With reference to the state of the sea , it is worthy of note that the copper-bottom of Her Majesty 's Ship 'Wizard , ' now in this port , became suddenly clean and bright .
Many of the town inhabitants have fled to the country , and the Generalissimo , with His Highness 's staff , has since removed to the camp outside the town .
Mr. Iall , second master of Her Majesty 's Gunboat 'Wizard , ' has kindly given me the following results of his observations : Thursday , Sept. 19 , 1867.-5.40 P.M. Therm. 86 ?
Fahr. Sea-water 85 ?
.-Experienced the shock of an earthquake , four seconds ' duration .
Friday , Sept. 20.-5.44 A.M. Mean time .
Place Chr. Therm. 85 ?
to 87 ?
Fahr. Sea-water 87 ?
.-Experienced a second shock of an earthquake , five seconds ' duration , followed by a series of violent effluxes and influxes of the sea at intervals of ten minutes .
6.0 A.M. Therm. 78 ? .
Water 77 ?
.-Rate of efflux and influx on perpendicular three feet in four minutes .
6.45 A.M.-Duration of efflux and influx six minutes .
Rate of do .
six minutes .
Perpendicular two feet in four minutes .
Noon.-Duration of efflux and influx four minutes .
I have the honour to be , with the highest respect , my Lord , Your Lordship 's most obedient humble Servant , ( Signed ) C. II .
DICKSON ,

