192 The Production of Variation in the Physiological Activity of Bacillus coli by the Use of Malachite-Green .
By Cecil Revis .
( Communicated by Sir J. R. Bradford , Sec. R.S. Received February 22 , \#151 ; Read March 28 , 1912 .
) In a paper published last year ( 1 ) I showed that by the cultivation of a typical Bacillus coli in peptone broth , containing steadily increasing quantities of malachite-green , the organism could be trained to develop without difficulty , even in the presence of 0'1 per cent , of the dye , but that , at the same time , the organism underwent a profound change , and lost the power of producing gas in certain sugars and polyhydric alcohols , the attack ceasing at the acid stage .
The properties of the organism so produced were of a permanent character .
As the change was at the moment unique , it was necessary to produce , if possible , the same change in other organisms of the same type , on account of the far-reaching deductions which may be made from this variation .
In the case recorded , however , the possibility of contamination was practically excluded by the precautions employed , while mathematically it was almost negatived .
Four organisms ( three being typical strains of Bacillus , and the fourth Bacillus acidi lactis Hueppe ) were carefully plated out , and grown for periods of seven days in peptone broth ( reaction + 1 ) to which increasing amounts of malachite-green had been added until 0T0 per cent , was present .
The cultures were incubated at 37 ' C. After a suitable interval ( about 15 to 20 reinoculations carried out with every precaution against accidental contamination ) the cultures were plated out and examined for physiological activity .
Of the four organisms , which may be distinguished as Coli A , B , and C , and Hueppe , the two latter showed practically no change , though some of the reactions were delayed .
Considerable variations in the type of colony were observed , but this is quite usual .
The four organisms showed very varying resistance to the malachite-green , Hueppe and Coli B were very susceptible , and had to be carefully acclimatised , while the other two found no difficulty in development in presence of the dye .
The susceptibility appears , however , to have no bearing on the physiological change .
The other two had , however , undergone exactly the same change as that previously recorded , and the various colonies examined consisted of organisms Malachite-Green and the Physiological Activity o/ 'B .
coli .
193 which produced acid in the same test media as the original cultures ( which , it may be remarked , had undergone no change when tested again at the conclusion of the experiment ) , but the power to produce gas had been completely lost , and could not be restored by repeated sub-culture in sugar media .
Coli B.\#151 ; This organism had been comparatively recently isolated from horse-dung , and was quite typical in every way .
Beyond the change in physiological activity , it showed scarcely any difference from the original culture , except that , on microscopic examination , the presence of long filaments was noticed , greatly in excess , both quantitatively and qualitatively , of that usually associated with Bacillus coli .
Coli A.\#151 ; This organism was particularly included , because , though quite typical , it had been kept in the laboratory for nearly four years , and was showing a very slight but noticeable change in physiological activity .
Besides the physiological change already mentioned , it showed profound morphological and cultural variation .
Colonies grew slowly ( not appearing before the fourth day ) on gelatin or agar at 20 ' , and then appeared as large , viscous , circular masses , consisting of a mixture of very long filaments and short bacilli , together with a gummy cementing substance ( see figure ) .
By no possible means could the presence of a mixture be detected , and there is no doubt that the filaments and bacilli belong to the same culture .
The action of the malachite-green , therefore , has been to produce an organism from a typical Bacillus coli , which is neither physiologically , morphologically , nor culturally a colon bacillus .
The identity of the organism throughout the experiment is easily seen from the character of the change produced , and the concomitant filamentous growth and slime production are not without precedent .
I have shown elsewhere that Bacillus coli , when grown under certain conditions such as in 194 Malachite-Green and the Physiological Activity B. coli .
soil , mineral media , etc. , develops the power of slime production in an extraordinary manner ( 2 ) .
Bacillus coli at all times shows a tendency to grow into filaments , though not of very great length .
In the course of some experiments , now proceeding , in which methylene-blue is substituted for malachite-green , the development of long filaments of similar character to those produced in Coli A has been noticed in several cases .
This peculiar type of growth , together with the production of " gum , " seems to point strongly to the development of Bacillus coli from a class of well-known soil bacteria , and , in fact , I have been able to train some of these bacteria to a very close resemblance to the new type developed from Coli A under the action of malachite-green .
I am indebted to the kindness of Dr. Vincent , Senior Physician to and Director of the Bacteriological Laboratory of the Infants ' Hospital , Vincent Square , for the photograph of Coli A here reproduced .
REFERENCES .
( 1 ) Revis , ' Cent. f. Bakt .
, ' 1911 , vol. 31 , Abt .
II , p. 1 .
( 2 ) Revis , ' Cent f. Bakt .
, ' 1910 , vol. 26 , Abt .
II , p. 161 .

