1888.J Muscular Movements in Man and their Evolution .
329 ' II .
" Muscular Movements in Man , and their Evolution in the Infant : a Study of Movement in Man , and its Evolution , together with Inferences as to the Properties of Nerve-centres and their Modes of Action in expressing Thought .
" By Francis Warner , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , Physician to the London Hospital and Lecturer on Botany in the London Hospital Medical College .
Communicated by Professor J. Hutchinson , F.R.S. Received June 12 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) Movements as signs of brain action have long been studied by the physiologist ; but before proceeding to give an account of the visible evolution of voluntary movement in man , it is necessary to define the different classes of movements seen , indicating the criteria by which the observer may be guided in the examples before him .
Movements may be classed according to the parts moving , the time , and the quantity of each movement .
These are the only intrinsic attributes of such acts .
If the nerve-centres which send stimuli to tho muscles are acting in equilibria , the static outcome is seen in the postures resulting in the body ; hence postures are signs of the ratios of action in the nerve-centres , and indicate their present state or mode of action .
Typical postures and movements are described .
A variation in the ratios of action in the centres leads to visible movement .
Certain postures and movements are found by experience to correspond to certain recognised brain states .
Movements may occur in combinations and in series ; special combinations and series of movements determine the outcome of the action of which they are component parts .
It is shown that the time of action in the various centres thus determines the outcome of the action , and is itself controlled by impressions received through the senses .
When movements are seen , not controlled by present circumstances , they are probably the result of antecedent or inherited impressions ; such are called spontaneous .
Section II .
Evolution of Movements in Man .
The new-born infant presents constant movement in all its parts while it is awake , and this is not controlled by impressions from without .
Graphic tracings of such movements are given .
This spontaneous movement in the infant appears to be of great physiological importance , and is here termed " microkinesis .
" It is argued that the mode of brain action which produces microkinesis is analogous to the action producing spontaneous movements in all young animals , and to the modes of cell-growth which produce circumnutation in 830 Muscular Movements in Man and their Evolution .
[ June 21 , young seedling plants .
It is argued that as circumnutation becomes | modified by external forces to the modes of movement termed 1 beliotropism , geotropism , \amp ; c. , so microkinesis in the infant is replaced by the more complicated modes of brain action as evolution proceeds .
1 The conditions of movement are then described , as seen at succes-1 sive stages of development of the child , and it is shown that they become less spontaneous , and more under control of stimuli acting upon the child from without , while the phenomena termed memory and imitation are evolved .
Section III .
Properties of Nerve-centres and their Modes of Action .
From observations made , descriptions are given of the modes of action and properties of nerve-centres in adult age , such descriptions being given in terms implying visible movements .
Impressionability , imitation , and retentiveness are thus described .
Nerve-centres are said to be " free ** when only slightly stimulated .
Delayed expression of impressions are seen when the visible outcome is delayed after the stimulus which produced it .
Double-action is said to occur when a local effect and a distant one , occur from one impression .
Compound cerebral action is said to occur , when the study of the visible movements indicates that successive unions of centres are in action , leading to a visible outcome well adapted to the primary stimulus which produced the series .
When a slight stimulus leads to a spreading area of movements producing considerable force , the phenomenon is termed reinforcement .
From observations made , two hypotheses are put forward .
It is suggested that when a well co-ordinated movement follows a slight stimulus , the impression produces temporary unions among the centres , preparing them for the special combinations and series of actions which are seen to follow .
Such unions among nerve-centres appear to be formed when a period of cerebral inhibition , produced by a word of command , is seen to be followed by a co-ordinated series of , acts .
A graphic tracing indicating suspension of microkinesis to the stimulus of sight and sound is given .
It is further suggested that the brain action corresponding to thought , is the formation of functional unions among cells , whose outcome is seen in the movements which express the thought , or its physical representation .
Properties similar to those described in brain centres may be illustrated in modes of growth .
Intelligence is then not a property of the brain , per se , but for its manifestation certain modes of brain action are necessary .
In the special postures and movements described , a number of physical signs of brain states are offered to the clinical observer .

