On the Capacity and Residual Charge of Dielectrics .
425 " On the Capacity and Residual Charge of Dielectrics as affected by Temperature and Time .
" By J. Hopkinson , F.R.S. , and E. Wilson .
Received December 15 , 1896 , \#151 ; Read January 28 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The major portion of the experiments described in the paper have been made on window glass and ice .
It is shown that for long times residual charge diminishes with rise of temperature in the case of glass , but for short times it increases both for glass and ice .
The capacity of glass when measured for ordinary durations of time , such as l/ 100th to l/ 10th second , increases much with rise of temperature , but when measured for short periods , such as 1/ 106 second , it does not sensibly increase .
The difference is shown to be due to the residual charge , which comes out between 1/ 50,000th second and l/ 100th second .
The capacity of ice when measured for periods of l/ 100th to l/ 10th second increases both with rise of temperature , and with increase of time , its value is of the order of 80 , but when measured for periods such as 1/ 106 second , its value is less than 3 .
The difference again is due to residual charge coming out during short times .
In the case of glass , conductivity has been observed at fairly high temperatures and after short times of electi'ification ; it is found that the conductivity after 1/ 50,000th second electrification is much greater than after 1/ 10,000th , but for longer times is sensibly constant .
Thus a continuity is shown between the conduction in dielectrics which exhibit residual charge and deviation from Maxwell 's law and ordinary electrolytes .
" On the Electrical Resistivity of Electrolytic Bismuth at Low Temperatures , and in Magnetic Fields .
" By James Dewar , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution ; and J. A. Fleming , M.A. , D.Sc .
, I .R.S .
, Professor of Electrical Engineering in University College , London .
Received January 4 , \#151 ; Read January 28 , In a previous communication to the Royal Society we have pointed out the behaviour of electrolytically prepared bismuth when cooled to very low temperatures , and at the same time subjected to transverse magnetisation.* During the last summer we have extended these * See ' Proc- R'y- Soc-\gt ; ' \#153 ; 1 .
60 , p. 72 , 1896 .
" On the Electrical Resistivity of Bismuth at the Temperature of Liquid Air , " by James Dewar and J. A. Fleming , See also ' Phil. Mag. , ' September , 1895 , Dewar and Fleming " On the Variation in the Electrical Resistance of Bismuth when cooled to the Temperature of Solid Air "

