February 5 , 1852 .
SIR JOHN F. W. HERSCHEL , Bart. , V.P. in the Chair .
The following papers were read:1 , " Discovery that the veins of the Bat 's wing , which are furnished with valves , are endowed with rythmical contractility , and that the onward flow of blood is accelerated at each contraction .
" By T. Wharton Jones , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Physiology in the Royal Institution of Great Britain , &amp;c. Received November 20 , 1851 .
The author finds that the veins of the bat 's wing contraact and dilate rythmically , and that they are provided with valves ; some of which completely oppose regurgitation of blood , others only partially .
The act of contraction of the vein is manifested by progressive constriction of its calibre and increasing thickness of its wall ; the relaxation of the vessel , by a return to the former width of calibre and thickness of wall .
The rythmical:contractions and dilatations of the veins are continually going on , and that , on an average , at the rate of ten contractions in the minute .
The contractions 'centrad and distad of a valve appear to be simultaneous , as also the dilatations .
During contraction , the flow of blood in the vein is accelerated , and on the cessation of the contraction , the flow is checked , with a tendency to regurgitation , which brings the : valves into play .
But this check to the onward flow of the blood is usually only momentary ; already , even while the vein is in the act of again becoming dilated , the onward flow recommences and goes on , though with comparative slowness , until the vein contracts again .
It is the heart 's action which maintains the onward flow of blood during the dilata4 tion of the vein , whilst it is the contraction of the vein , coming in aid of the heart 's action , which causes the acceleration ... The valves are composed sometimes of but a single flap , sometimes of two .
In the situation of a valve and centrad of the insertion of its flaps , the veins present the usual dilatations or sinuses .
The valves are a reduplication 'of the clear innermost coat of the vein , with sometimes an intervening layer of cellular tissue .
The veins closely accompany the arteries , the nerve only intervening .
The ccntractility of the arteries the author finds altogether different from that of the veins , being tonic , not rythmical .
He has not been able to observe unequivocal evidences of tonic contractility of the veins , which they have been alleged to possess .
In figure 3 , of drawing No. 1 , illustrating his paper , the author represents , in reference to this point , an artery and a vein , as observed immediately after pressure had been applied Over them .
The artery is seen constricted at intervals both above and below the place of pressure .
The vein is not so constricted , but at the place where the pressure was applied there is seen a greyish granular deposit of lymph within the vessel , giving rise to an appearance of constriction by narrowing the stream of blood .
On watching a vein in this state , the author has observed portions of the lymphy deposit carried away by the stream of blood , with corresponding enlargement of the channel .
The author further finds that nowhere do the arteries and veins of the web of the bat 's wing directly communicate , as has also been alleged ; the only communication being the usual one through the medium of capillaries .
In an appendix to this paper , the author describes the result of his inicroscopical examination of the structure of the veins and arteries .
Both artery and vein have a middle coat of circularly disposed muscular fibres ; but the appearance of the fibres is different in the two vessels .
The fibres of the vein are x~--dth in .
broad , pale , grayish , semitransparent and granular looking .
In general aspect , they very much resemble the muscular fibres of the lymphatic hearts of the frog ; but in none did the author detect an unequivocal appearance of transverse marking .
The fibres of the middle coat of the artery are not so pale looking , are clearer , and exhibit a more strongly marked contour .

