519 An Electric Furnace for Experiments in vacuo Temperatures up to 1500 ' C. By R. E. Slade , M.Sc .
( Viet .
) .
( Communicated by Prof. F. Gr .
Donnan , F.R.S. Received September 24 , \#151 ; Read November 21 , 1912 .
) ( From the Muspratt Laboratory of Physical and Electro-Chemistry , University of Liverpool .
) This furnace was designed with a view to investigating at temperatures up to 1500 ' C. certain cases of heterogeneous equilibrium in which the equilibrium is defined by the pressure of the system .
Instances are the dissociation of certain oxides , nitrides , and carbonates , and the reduction of oxides by carbon .
The furnace could not be constructed of carbon , as carbon would react with some of the gases of which the pressure had to be measured , and also because it is almost impossible to remove the adsorbed gases from large quantities of carbon .
' Tubes of Royal Berlin porcelain in a platinum-wound resistance furnace may be used for temperatures up to 1200 ' , but at about this temperature they become soft , while the glaze runs and combines with any boat or other substance in the furnace .
Tubes of silica are not suitable , because they are porous at high temperatures , and because they disintegrate owing to crystallisation taking place .
It was decided to make the furnace of a platinum tube and to heat it by passing a large current through it .
As some of the substances which it would be necessary to place in the furnace react with platinum , .
copper formed by the dissociation of cuprous oxide , it was necessary to make the furnace sufficiently large to take a boat or crucible of magnesia large enough to contain the reacting substance and thick enough to protect the tube .
On the other hand , the tube ought to be as small as possible , in order that in determining the dissociation pressures all the charge should not be decomposed before the equilibrium is attained .
No data are available as to the strength of platinum at high temperatures , so that it was impossible to calculate what thickness of tube was necessary to withstand the pressure of the atmosphere when the tube was evacuated .
The first furnace constructed consisted of a platinum tube 2 cm .
in diameter , 17 cm .
long , and with walls 1 mm. thick .
It was mounted in water-cooled terminals at the ends as in the final form ( see below ) .
When evacuated and heated to 1195 ' C. it collapsed under the atmospheric pressure .
520 Mr. R. E. Slade .
An Electric Furnace for [ Sept. 24 , Since it was not feasible to make the tube walls any thicker on account of the high price of platinum and on account of the already low resistance of the tube , the whole furnace after being re-made was placed in an enclosure in which the pressure could be regulated so as to be nearly the same as that inside the furnace .
In this way the platinum tube was freed from pressure , and the furnace has been found to work satisfactorily up to 1500 ' C. The furnace is shown in section in figs. 1 and 2 .
The platinum tube\#151 ; 2 cm .
diameter , 17'5 cm .
long , and with walls 1 mm. 77/ 777X 7777 , Scale of centimetres .
Fig. 1 .
thick\#151 ; is mounted at each end in a water-cooled brass terminal shown in section in fig. 2 .
This terminal consists of an upper and a lower part , which are screwed together ( screws a , a)to hold the tube .
Both parts are cooled by a stream of water flowing through the bored channels and d ( tigs .
1 and 2 ) .
The lower parts of the terminals are screwed to the wooden bases c , c , which have a large hole through which pass the brass tubes carrying water to the channels b , b. Of these two wooden bases , one is fixed to the wooden bridge e , whilst the other is free to slide , to take up the expansion of the tube on heating .
The terminals are connected to copper bus bars , the fixed one directly and the movable one by means of a loop of very flexible bare cable .
One end of the tube is closed by the silver plate f , 1912 .
] Experiments in vacno up to 1500 ' C. which is silver-soldered to it .
To a hole in the centre of the plate is soldered a silver capillary tube g. These fittings are prevented from becoming hot by the water chamber h. The other end of the silver capillary tube fits easily into the thick-walled glass tube i. This joint is then made quite gas-tight with a , little Golaz wax.* The other end of the platinum tube is closed by the water-cooled stopper which is ground to fit the end of the tube .
The end of this stopper , the part making the friction joint , and the tube passing down the centre of it are of silver .
The ground joint at the end of the platinum tube is made tight by means Vertical section across A.B.OWf.i .
) 6 cms .
I \#166 ; I Scale of centimetres .
Fig. 2 .
of a little soft waxf which is run round after the stopper is in place ; no lubricant is used on the ground surfaces .
The hard wax is not used here , because this joint must be opened to introduce the boat into the furnace .
Into the silver tube passing through the stopper fits the glass Y-piece , through which the thermo-couple is sealed at the points l and m. In each of the arms of the Y is a coil of the couple wire , so that in case of damage to * A low-melting hard wax , not quite so brittle as sealing wax .
It is obtained from L. Golaz , 23 , Avenue du Parc de Mont Souris , Paris .
+ A soft wax which does not become hard on cooling , and shows no tendency to contract , and leave a metal or glass surface .
It is obtained from J. Gautseh , Miinchen , Nympmenburger Str. 3 .
522 Mr. R. E. Slade .
An Electric Furnace for [ Sept. 24 , the couple the end may be cut off and more wire drawn out without having to interfere with the seals / and mand even without having to undo the glass-silver joint o which is made permanently tight with Golaz wax .
The boat is placed in the middle of the tube and is protected from radiation to the cool ends by means of two discs of thin platinum at each side .
The platinum tube is enclosed in an asbestos box which is filled with magnesia .
The furnace stands on the cast iron base which is supported by three feet .
This base is bored with ten holes , each of which is fitted with a rubber stopper through which passes the respective connection to the furnace .
Through two of the holes pass copper bus bars leading in the current , through two the water flows in and out for cooling the terminals , and through another two the water for cooling the end pieces .
The water connections inside the furnace enclosure are made by means of thick-walled rubber or lead tubing so that they will not burst when the enclosure is evacuated .
The rubber tube is of course used where it is necessary to avoid a short circuit , e.g. the tube p. The glass tube is brought out through a hole fitted with a rubber stopper .
This tube is sealed to a manometer and Topler pump .
The two ends of the thermo-couple dip into glass tubes fitted by rubber stoppers into holes in the base .
These glass tubes , one of which is shown in fig. 1 , contain mercury , and each has a platinum wire sealed through the bottom .
The bottoms of these two tubes , which project below the base and so are outside the furnace , dip into wider tubes containing mercury , into which dip the wires leading to the measuring instrument .
These outer tubes may be surrounded by ice to keep the cold junction of the thermo-element at 0 ' C. The other hole through the base is fitted with a tube leading to two Bunsen filter pumps and a pressure gauge .
By means of these two pumps the enclosure can be evacuated to the vapour-pressure of water ( 12 to 14 mm. ) in 15 to 20 minutes .
Between the pumps and the furnace is interposed a calcium chloride tube to keep the atmosphere within the enclosure dry .
For this purpose also a dish of calcium chloride is always placed under the cover before sealing it up .
It is important to keep the atmosphere dry or there will be a dissociation of water vapour on the outside surface of the platinum tube and hydrogen will diffuse through the platinum into the furnace .
The iron dome , which is fitted with a wide flange , is lifted on and off by means of two handles fitted to the top .
The contact between the flange and the plate is smeared with tap grease ( vaseline and burnt rubber ) .
Soft wax is run into the channel q. All the holes in the base plate are made quite air-tight by running w'ax into the holes on top of the stoppers .
This outside enclosure holds so well that when shut off from the pumps the pressure only rises 20 to 40 mm. in 14 hours .
The inside Experiments in vacuo up to 1500 ' C. 1912 .
] tube or furnace when pumped out with the Topler pump and then shut off from the latter shows a pressure of less than 01 mm. after 14 hours .
In another experiment the pressure only rose to 0*1 mm. in 2 hours at 1150 ' C. The thermo-couple is of platinum-platinum-rhodium .
The E.M.F. of the couple is measured by means of a potentiometer .
The couple has been calibrated at the melting point of copper , 1083 ' C. , and was found to agree with the maker 's calibration to within 1 ' at this point .
The extrapolation formula used was log e = T22 log t \#151 ; 2'65 wTiere e is the E.M.F. in millivolts .
The furnace requires about 350 amperes at 3 volts to heat it to 1400 ' 0 .
when the enclosure is evacuated .
With increase of pressure in the enclosure the thermal conductivity increases so that more power is needed to maintain the same temperature .
The current is obtained either from two dynamos in parallel capable of giving together 500 amperes , or from an accumulator battery of 12 cells arranged in six sets of two in series , the six sets being in parallel as shown diagrammatically in fig. 3 .
The normal discharge rate of the AA/ vWA^ Fig. 3 .
cells is 75 amperes each , whilst they may be discharged up to 125 amperes each .
It was found necessary to use the cells whenever a steady temperature had to be maintained , as the voltage of the power mains off which the motor working the dynamo was driven continually varied , thus changing the speed of the motor , the E.M.F. of the dynamo and the current through the furnace .
By using the accumulator battery the temperature can easily be kept within 1 ' for several hours at temperatures up to 1500 ' C. A fine adjustment of the current was obtained by shunting up to 15 amperes across Messrs. IT .
E. Slade and F. D. Farrow .
[ Sept. 24 ) the furnace through the ammeter and resistance shown at a in fig. 3 .
The coarse adjustment of the current is made by means of a water-cooled brass tube resistance .
The current flows in series through two brass tubes 5 feet long fixed in a frame side by side , whilst a stream of water flows through to cool them .
By means of two stout brass clips across the two barsfany fraction of them can be short-circuited .
The maximum resistance of these tubes is 1/ 300 ohm .
This furnace has been used in an investigation of the dissociation of cuprous oxide , and has been found to be in every way satisfactory .
Part of the expense of the construction of this furnace was defrayed by a grant from the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society , to ' whom the author wishes to express his thanks .
An In vestigation of the Dissociation Pressures and Melting Points of the System Copper-Cuprous Oxide .
By R. E. Slade , M.Sc .
( Viet .
) , and E. D. Farrow , M.Sc .
( N.Z. ) .
( Communicated by Prof. F. G. Donnan , F.R.S. Received September 24 , \#151 ; Read November 21 , 1912 .
) ( From the Muspratt Laboratory of Physical and Electro-Chemistry , University of Liverpool .
) E. Heyn* determined the melting points of mixtures of copper and cuprous oxide of compositions varying between 100 per cent. Cu and 88*24 per cent. Cu , 11*76 per cent. CU2O .
The results of his experiments are shown by the points marked + in fig. 1 .
These points fall on two curves intersecting at the eutectic point 1065 ' C. , CU2O 3*5 per cent. , Cu 96 5 per cent. Heyn found that all his mixtures showed a halt in the cooling curve at this eutectic temperature , so that within the range of his experiments there is no evidence of the existence of solid solutions .
C. N. Otin*f* has lately published some experiments on the melting points of the system cuprous oxide-silica .
He attempted to determine the melting point of cuprous oxide , but as some oxidation always took place in his experiments , and as he did not analyse the solid obtained ( on account of * ; Zeit .
anorg .
Chem. , ' vol. 39 , p. 11 .
+ ' Metallurgie , ' vol. 9 , p. 92 .

