On the mutual Action of Sulphuric Acid and Naphthaline , and on a new Acid produced .
By M. Faraday , F.R.S. Corresponding Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences , &amp; 8c .
c8c .
Communicated January 12 , 1826 .
Read February 16 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part II .
p. 140 .
] In this communication M/ fr .
Faraday shows that when sulphuric acid and naphthaline act upon each other , a peculiar compound possessed of distinct acid characters is the result .
This acid is most readily obtained by heating two parts of naphthaline with one of sulphuric acid .
The mixture concretes on cooling , and separates into two parts , the uppermost of which is little else than naphthaline , but the lower , heavier part contains the peculiar acid , which , being soluble in water , is easily separated by that fluid , not , however , pure , but still containing mixed sulphuric acid .
The author , however , obtained the pure acid by decomposing its compound with baryta , which is soluble , by sulphuric acid .
It then had a bitter sour taste , and formed a distinct class of salts with the different bases , all of which are soluble in water and in alcohol , and combustible .
By careful evaporation of the aqueous solution of this acid , a white crystalline deliquescent solution was obtained , evolving water when heated , and at high temperatures affording sulphurous acid , charcoal , and naphthaline .
To determine the ultimate component parts of this acid , its compound with baryta was subjected to rigid analysis ; the results of which were 78 baryta ... ... ... ... ... ... ... =1 proportional .
80 sulphuric acid ... ... ... ..* =2 proportionals .
120 carbon ... ... ... ... . .
20 8 hydrogen ... ... ... ... . .
=8 This acid , therefore , only possesses half the saturating power of sulphuric acid , and it would accordingly appear that the hydrocarbon acts the part of a neutralizer of one of the proportionals of sulphuric acid .
This property of hydro-carbon , the author observes , was pointed out to him by Mr. Hennell , as manifested in the formation of sulpho-vinous acid , before he had established it in regard to the above peculiar combination .
Mr. Faraday proposes to call the acid , of which he has described the sources , nature , and properties , Sulpho-naphthalic Acid .

