42 Mr. M. Tomlinson .
The Influence of [ Dec. 18 , IY .
" The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Physical Properties of Matter .
Part I. Moduli'of Elasticity__________ continued .
The Viscosity of Metals .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received December 9 , 1884 .
% ( Abstract .
) After a short account of the researches of Sir William Thomson and Professor G. Wiedemann , on the loss of energy of a wire when vibrating torsionally , the author proceeds to describe his own experiments on the same subject .
The wire under examination was clamped at one end into a stout brass block , which was secured to the extremity of a strong iron bracket projecting from a wall .
A wooden box nearly 600 cm .
in length and 12 cm .
square inside , protected the vertically suspended wire from currents of air .
The box rested upon another , which measured about 40 cm .
each way , provided with a glass window in the front , and a door at the side , which latter was opened only when it was necessary to make a readjustment of a vibrator attached to the lower extremity of the wire , and capable of moving freely inside the box .
The bar of the vibrator was either clamped or soldered to the lower extremity of the wire , and on it were suspended two cylinders of equal mass and dimensions ; by sliding the cylinders backwards or forwards on the bar the moment of inertia of the whole vibrator could be altered without changing the mass .
The torsional vibrations of the wire were observed by the aid of mirror , scale , and lamp , so that , as the length of the wire was upwards of 600 cm .
, and the diameter rather less than 1 mm. , very small molecular displacements were produced when the wire was vibrating .
It was found necessary to allow the wire to rest , after the adjustments had been made , for a length of time varying with the nature of the metal from one day to several weeks ; as though great care was taken in arranging the wire , it was impossible in many cases to avoid imparting subpermanent torsion , which gradually came out under the influence of rest and repeated oscillation .
Very great care was taken both in starting the vibrator and in taking the observations , the results of which showed that the diminution of amplitude could in most cases be determined with considerable accuracy .
The various causes of the loss of energy of a vibrating wire are pointed out in the paper , and subsequent experiments proved that all of these are practically neglectable , except the resistance of the air and the internal molecular friction of the metal .
A full account is 1884.J Stress and Strain on the Properties of .43 given of the method of eliminating from the results the effect of the resistance of the air , which with some metals plays a very unimportant part in diminishing the amplitude as compared with the internal friction , hut with others , especially under certain conditions , is to he credited with almost the entire loss of energy .
A mathematical investigation of the loss of energy which would be experienced by a wire vibrating under the influence of torsional elasticity , if the internal friction of solids were like that of fluids , proved with reference to the proportionate diminution of amplitude ( a ) that it should be independent of the amplitude ; that it should vary inversely with the vibration-period .
From the experiments it followed that though the condition ( a ) was satisfied , ( 6 ) was not , so that when the moment of inertia of the vibrator was altered without any change of mass , instead of the proportionate diminution of amplitude being in the inverse ratio of the vibration-period , it seemed to be to a considerable extent independent of the period .
" The fatigue of elasticity " ( a term first used by Sir William Thomson ) , according to which a wire which had been kept vibrating for several hours or days through a certain range , came to rest much more quickly when left to itself than when set in vibration after it had been at rest for several days , was next the subject of investigation , and it was found that this elastic fatigue never showed itself when the wire , whatever might be the metal of which it was composed , was vibrated through amplitudes sufficiently within the limits of elasticity , but , on the contrary , repeated oscillation was in this case always attended with diminution of loss of energy , the diminution being subpermanent .
No trace of elastic fatigue was-discernible in the case of most of the metals examined so long as the vibrations did not exceed in amplitude the limits of the scale , but with nickel it was necessary to confine the amplitude to 100 scale-divisions , in order to avoid " fatigue of elasticity .
" Moderate permanent extension was found to diminish the loss of energy of a copper wire and to increase that of an iron wire , provided a rest of one day was allowed ; recent permanent extension increased !
in both cases the loss of energy .
The difference between copper and iron in the above respect is no doubt due to the greater " coercive force " of the latter .
Moderate permanent torsion had a much greater effect than permanent extension in increasing the loss of1 energy of an iron wire .
An examination of the effect of passing an electric current of from '1 to '3 ampere through a vibrating iron , nickel , or tin wire ended in proving that such a current , though capable of producing sensible^ circular magnetisation of the first two metals , had no sensible effect on the loss of energy of any of them .
During the investigation it was thought advisable to make experi44 Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
[ Dec. 18 , ments on the loss of energy of a vibrating magnet , and the following facts were elicited :\#151 ; ( a. ) The loss of energy of a vibrating magnet , like that of a vibrating iron wire , is lessened by repeated oscillations , and , after the first adjustment , or after a slight jar , is lessened by rest only .
Repeated oscillation produces a subpermanent diminution of loss of energy .
( 6 .
) The diminution of amplitude due to magnetic causes only is like that due to the resistance of the air , and follows the same -law , namely , that for different vibration-periods the diminution is inversely as the period , and therefore is in this respect quite unlike the diminution of amplitude resulting from internal friction .
During the whole of the experiments a most careful watch was kept upon any effect which change of temperature might produce in the loss of energy , and it was discovered that whilst with wires of tin , lead , aluminium , silver , platinum , nickel , unannealed piano-steel , zinc , copper , brass , German silver , and platinum-silver the loss of energy became greater when the temperature was raised ; with iron , on the contrary , the loss of energy was diminished by the same cause.* The marked difference between the effects produced on the loss of energy of annealed iron and of the other metals , by rise of temperature , caused an extended investigation to be made with annealed iron wire with the following results :\#151 ; ( a. ) The loss of energy of a torsionally vibrating iron wire is permanently diminished to a very large extent by repeated heating to 100 ' C. and cooling combined with long rest .
( 6 .
) The loss of energy is very considerably diminished temporarily by rise of temperature , the value of the logarithmic decrement at the temperature 0 ' C. being about twice as great as the value at 100 ' C. The loss of energy at the temperature of 100 ' C. of an iron wire which has been repeatedly heated to 100 ' 0 .
and cooled to the .ordinary temperature of the room is so small that it may be almost \#166 ; entirely accounted for by the resistance of the air .
An examination was also made of the effect of change of temperature on the torsional rigidity of the metal , and it was found that this change could be represented by the formula\#151 ; r/ ==r0(l\#151 ; .0001443^\#151 ; .0000015804^ ) , where rt and r0 represented the torsional rigidity at t ' C. and 0 ' C. respectively .
Both from the observed torsional rigidity and from that calculated from the formula , it was found that the decrease of the torsional rigidity caused by rise of temperature from 0 ' C. to 100 ' G. is only about half of that got by Kohlrausch when making a similar investigation .
The great discrepancy above alluded to can only have arisen from the different treatment of the iron previously to the actual * Probably also annealed piano-steel .
1884 .
] Prof. Male ?
s Invariants and Sir J. Cockle 's Criticoids .
45 testing , repeated heating and cooling , combined with oscillations for a great nnmber of hours and long rest , having had the effect of rendering the iron much less susceptible to alteration of torsional rigidity from change of temperature .
At the present stage of the inquiry it is impossible to arrive at any definite conclusion as to any relationship between the viscosity of metals and their specific electrical resistance .
It would seem indeed that in the case of the pure metals , those which have the greatest viscosity , such as lead and tin , are those whose specific electrical resistance is comparatively great , but even with the pure metals so many circumstances influence the loss of energy , that a much more extended investigation must be made ere one can write with sufficient certainty on the point .
In the case of the alloys , German silver , platinum-silver , and brass , the values of the logarithmic decrements do not seem to be greater than those pertaining to their components , whereas as regards specific electrical resistance we know that this is not so .
Again we encounter the curious fact that whereas with iron the electrical resistance is more increased by rise of temperature than is the case with any other metal , the logarithmic decrement is on the contrary decreased by the same cause .
A review of the whole experiments shows that the loss of energy due to internal friction of a torsionally vibrating wire does not accord with laws of fluid friction , but with those of external friction , inasmuch as the loss of energy from internal friction , like that from external friction , is to a great extent independent of the velocity .
Whether with external as with internal friction the loss of energy would be independent of the pressure provided the molecules of the two surfaces were brought into very close , remains yet to be decided .
V. " Professor Malet 's Classes of Invariants identified with Sir James Cockle 's Criticoids .
" By the Rev. Robert Harley , F.R.S. Received December 10,1884 .
Read December 18 .
1 .
Professor Malet , in a paper entitled " On a Class of Invariants , " printed in the " Philosophical Transactions " for 1882 , Part III , pp. 751-776 , says he has not seen it noticed by any mathematician that " in the theory of Linear Differential Equations there are two important classes of functions of the coefficients which have remarkable analogies to the invariants of Algebraic Binary Quantics .
" He then proceeds to determine the forms of such functions , and to give examples of their application .
Soon after the publication of the abstract of Professor Malet 's paper in the Proceedings of the Society ( vol. 33 ,

