Additional Facts respecting the Fossil Remains of an Animal , on the subject of which two Papers have been printed in the Philosophical Transactions , showing that the Bones of the Sternum resemble those of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart , V.P.R.S. Read January 22 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 24 .
] In an engraving annexed to Sir Everard Home 's first paper upon the above subject , a portion of bone is shown lying upon the scapula , which he considered as a portion of a rib accidentally brought there ; but which he now finds to be nearly in its original situation , and is found to resemble nearly the clavicular bone in birds , as far as regards relative position .
The bones of the sternum were first pointed out to the author by Mr. Buckland ; and their discovery destroys the analogy between this fossil animal and cartilaginous fishes .
On comparing the general form of the sternum with that of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus , a general agreement was discovered between them : they differ in the fossil skeleton having a clavicular bone , which is wanting in the other , and in the Ornithorhynchus having a long process from the scapula , which the fossil bone wants .
The fossil animal is ascertained to have lived in water , by the form of its vertebrae ; and from the shape of the chest , it must have breathed air ; in these respects resembling the Ornithorhynchus : but the mode of progressive motion differs : that of the one being the same as in fishes , that of the other the same as in the whale tribe .
Another bone is described in this paper , probably belonging to the same animal , and which the author regards as the first bone of the pectoral fin ; which , however , cannot be absolutely determined till the bones of the pelvis are found .
To find any analogy , says the author , between the bones of animals now alive and those of races long extinct , is matter of no small curiosity ; but to have discovered an analogy between the peculiarities belonging to the animals of New Holland , by which they are so remarkably distinguished from all others that now inhabit our globe , and bones in a fossil state , creates a considerable degree of surprise ; and by connecting the present animals with those that are extinct , adds a link to that chain of gradation which is the most interesting to the comparative anatomist and to the geologist .

