484 Mr. H. N. Dickson .
Circulation of the " The Circulation of the Surface Waters of the North Atlantic Ocean .
" By H. N. Dickson , B.Sc. Communicated by Sir John Murray , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received March 23 , \#151 ; Read May 17 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper an attempt is made to investigate the normal circulation of the surface waters of the Atlantic Ocean north of 40 ' N. lat. , and its changes , by means of a series of synoptic charts showing the distribution of temperature and salinity over the area for each month of the two years 1896 and 1897 .
The temperature observations discussed ( numbering over 16,000 ) were obtained from the meteorological and hydrographical departments of the countries bordering on the North Atlantic , and special arrangements were made with the officers of a number of ships for the continuous supply of samples of surface waters for analysis .
The salinity of the samples obtained was determined by volumetric estimations of the amount of chlorine present .
Over 4,000 samples were dealt with in this way , and special attention was devoted to ascertaining the accuracy of the methods employed .
A large number of estimations were also made of sulphates present in the waters , and the limits of variation from a definite ratio of chloride salinity to sulphate salinity determined .
The specific gravity of over 500 of the samples was determined with the pyknometer , and a formula connecting the results of these determinations with the salinities derived from chlorines investigated .
The numerical results of the chemical and physical determinations are exhibited in a table , forming a substantial addition to the material available for the discussion of oceanographical problems of this kind .
The principal conclusions arrived at with reference to the circulation may be summed up as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The surface waters along the whole of the eastern seaboard of North America north of ( about ) lat. 30 ' N. , consisting partly of water brought from the equatorial currents by the Gulf Stream , and partly of water brought down by the Labrador current , are drifted eastward across the Atlantic towards south-western Europe , and banked up against the land outside the continental shelf .
This continues all the year round , but it is strongest in summer , when the -Atlantic anticyclone attains its greatest size and intensity ; and the proportion of Gulf Stream water is greatest at that season .
2 .
The drifts in the northern part of the Atlantic area are under the control of the cyclones crossing it .
The circulation set up accordingly reaches its maximum intensity in winter , and almost dies out in summer .
In winter the drifts tend to the south-eastward from^the Surface Waters of the North Atlantic .
485 mouth of Davis Strait , eastward in mid-Atlantic , and north-eastward in the eastern region .
In spring and autumn the movement is more -easterly over the whole distance , and a larger quantity of water from the Labrador stream is therefore carried eastward .
3 .
The water banked up in the manner described in ( 1 ) escapes partly downwards , partly southwards , and partly northwards .
It occupies the whole of the eastern basin of the North Atlantic , and to the north it extends westward to Davis Strait , being confined below 300 fathoms depth by the ridges connecting Europe , the Faeroes , Iceland , and Greenland .
Above that level it escapes northward by a strong current through the Faeroe-Shetland Channel and between Faeroe and Iceland , and by the two branches of the Irminger stream , one west of Iceland the other west of Greenland .
( As it seems desirable that this northerly current should have a distinctive name , it might be well to call it the European stream , and its branches the Norwegian , Irminger , and Greenland streams respeeThe strength and volume of the European stream is liable to considerable variation , according to the form and position of the Atlantic anti-cyclone , which causes the amount of banked up water , and the proportions escaping northward and southward , to vary .
It is also modified by the strength and direction of the surface drifts in its course .
It is , however , always strongest in summer .
4 .
The Norwegian stream is by far the largest branch of the European , and it traverses the Norwegian Sea and enters the Arctic Ocean .
The warm water thus sent northward melts enormous quantities of ice , and the fresh water derived from the ice moves southward in autumn , chiefly in a wide surface current , between Iceland and Jan Mayen , which may entirely cover other parts of the Norwegian stream .
Part of the surface water also comes southward through the Denmark Strait , but the amount is much smaller , probably chiefly because the melting of the ice is slower , and the channel is longer blocked .
The Greenland branch of the European current also causes melting of ice in Davis Strait , but the warm winds from the American continent and the water received from the land are probably more effective in increasing the volume of the Labrador current .
5 .
The water from the melted ice is spread over the surface of the North Atlantic during late autumn and winter by the increasing drift circulation , and it is gradually absorbed by mixing with the underlying water .
6 .
The circulation described is liable to extensive irregular variations , corresponding to variations in the atmospheric circulation*

