1888 .
] On the Spectrum of the Oxyhydrogen Flame .
Diagram showing the path described in twenty-four hours by a particle under the influence of the tidal and constant currents of fig. 1 .
II .
" On the Spectrum of the Oxyhydrogen Flame .
" By G. D. Liyeing , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received January 18 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) In a former communication the authors described simultaneously with Dr. Huggins the strongest portion of the spectrum of water , subsequently they described a second less strong but more refrangible section of the same spectrum .
M. Deslandres has noticed a third still more refrangible section .
The authors now find that the spectrum extends , with diminishing intensity , into the visible region on the one hand , and far into the ultra-violet on the other .
These faint parts of the spectrum they have photographed , using the dispersion of a single calcite prism and a lengthened exposure ; and in the present communication they give a map of the whole extent observed , and a list of wave-lengths of upwards of 780 lines .
Presents .
[ Feb. 2 , The spectrum exhibits the appearance of a series of rhythmical groups more or less overlapping one another , and the arrangement of the lines in these groups is shown to follow , in many cases , the law that the distances between the lines , as measured in wave-lengths , are in an arithmetic progression .
M. Deslandres had previously announced that the succession of lines in A , B , and follow this law when their distances are measured in reciprocals of wave-lengths , and he has stated that the groups A , B , and a , have counterparts in the spectrum of water .
The authors find a striking resemblance between those groups and certain parts of the water spectrum , but no exact correspondence .
Dr. Griinwald , of Prague , predicted on theoretical grounds that certain lines would appear in the spectrum of water , and the authors have found a considerable number of lines which tally closely with Dr. Griinwald s predictions , some of them , in the extremities of the spectrum , being the strongest lines observed in those regions .
III .
" On the Voltaic Circles producible by the mutual Neutralisation of Acid and Alkaline Fluids , and on various related Forms of Electromotors .
" By C. R. Alder Wright , D.Sc .
, h .R.S .
, Lecturer on Chemistry and Physics , and C. Thompson , F.I.C. , F.C.S. , Demonstrator of Chemistry , in St. Mary 's Hospital Medical School .
Received January 18 1888 .
[ Publication deferred .
] Presents , February 2 , 1888 .
Transactions .
Bern Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen .
Jahrgang 1885 .
Heft 3 .
8vo .
Bern 1886 .
The Society .
Briinn Naturforschender Verein .
Verhandlungen .
Band XXIV .
llefte 1\#151 ; 2 .
8vo .
Briinn 1886 ; Bericht der Meteorologischen Commission fur 1884 .
8vo .
Briinn 1886 .
The Verein .
Brunswick:\#151 ; Verein fur Naturwissenschaft .
Jahresbericht 3-4 .
8vo .
Braunschweig 1883 , 1887 .
The Verein .
Cambridge , Mass .
: Harvard College .
Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Annual Report .
1886-7 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1887 .
The Museum .
Harvard University .
Bulletin .
October , 1887 .
8vo .
\_Cambridge~\ .
The University .
Catania : Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali .
Processi Verbali .
1887 .
Nos. 1-2 .
4to .
[ Catania ' ] .
The Academy ,

