]\gt ; [ 433 ] XII .
Kinetic Theory of a Gas Constituted of Spherically Symmetrical illolecules .
S. CHAPMAN , M. Sc. , College , Cambridge ; Chief Royal ecncvich .
Communicated by Si , .
JOSEPH LARMOR , Sec. Received May 29 , \mdash ; Read June 29 , \mdash ; Received after Revision and Alteration as indicated in the text , with the addition of Part III .
, pp. 460-483 , November 9 , 1911 .
CONTENTS .
Page Introduction . . . . .
433 Part I.\mdash ; General theory . . . . .
434 Part II.\mdash ; On certain special iorms of molecular interaction . . . .
453 Part III.\mdash ; Theoretical results , and comparison with experimental data 460 THE principal kinetic theories of a gas proceed either on the hypothesis that the molecules are rigid elastic spheres , or that they are point celltres of forces which vary inversely as the fifth power of the distance .
MAXWELL has worked out the consequences of the btter hypothesis in his well-known theory , is unrivalled in its high degree of accuracy and ( after some improvements by BOLTZMANN ) in its perfection of mathematical form .
All the quantities not taken account of in the theory ( such as the time occupied by molecular encounters , and the effect of collisions in which more than two molecules take part ) are properly negligible uIlder ordinary conditions .
The theory has the disadvantage , however , that the underlying hypothesis is highly artificial ( being chosen chiefly on account of mathematical simplifications connected with it , rather than from any physical reasons ) , and does not represent the real facts at all adequately .
* Phil. Trans 1867 ; Scientific Papers , ' vol. ii .
, p. 23 .
convenience we shall refer to a gas of the type there contemplated as a Maxwellian gas .
Of coursc , its molecules possess no intern energy .
'Vorlesungen uber Gastheorie , ' vol. VOL. CCXI . .
3 The other hypothesis referred to seems to be much more in agreement with fact , but its consequences have been worked out less accurately .
The method which has almost always been used is the one originally devised by CLAUSIUS and MAXWELL ; MAXWELL abandoned it later , however , as it had " " led him at times into grave error In spite of its apparent simplicity , numerical errors of large amount may undoubtedly creep in in a very subtle way .
Hence the theory of a gas whose molecules are elastic spheres remains in a rather unsatisfactory state .
As a ' ' descriptive\ldquo ; theory ( to use MEYER'S apt term ) it has , however , served a useful purpose ; the general laws of gaseous phenomena have been developed by its aid in an elementary way , which has conduced to a wider diffusion of knowledge of the kinetic theory than would have been possible if the sole lin of development had been by the more mathematical and accurate methods used by MAXWELL and BOLTZMANN .
In this paper I have applied the latter methods , with an extension of the analysis , to the elastic-sphere theory among others .
In fact , I have obtained expressions for the viscosity , diffusivity , and conductivity of a gas without assuming any properties of the molecules save that they are spherically symmetrical .
Many known laws are thus proved more generally than in any former theories , but the formulae so obtained cannot in all cases be put into a really useful form without a knowledge of the nature of the molecules .
The supplementary calculations required to complete the general formulae of Part I. of this paper are carried out in Part II .
for three special cases , viz. , rigid elastic spherical molecules , molecules which are centres of repulsive or attractive force varying inversely as the power of the distance , and rigid elastic spherical molecules surrounded by fields of attractive force .
In Part IIL the general formulae are completed in these cases and discussed in their relations to the results of former theories and of experiment .
PART I.\mdash ; GENERAL THEORY .
1 .
Statement of the Problem .
We shall deal with a gas composed of two kinds of molecules , which are all supposed to be spherically symmetrical ; will denote their masses and the number of each kind per unit volume respectively .
Similarly the velocity components of typical molecules of the two kinds will be denoted by , Let be any function of the velocity components of a single molecule ( e.g. , momentum , energy ) .
At any point let be the mean value of , so that where is the function which expresses the law of distribution of the CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
velocities among the molecules Thus the aggregate value of for the vdxdydz molecules in a volume element dxdydz at the point considered is given by Let , be the mean values of , Except in considering , we shall suppose that the mean velocities of each system of molecules is the same , so that .
We shall write , and so on , so that The general equation of transfer of , independent of the action of external forces is ( 1 ) ; here denotes the " " mobile operator\ldquo ; of the hydrodynamical equations .
The only term of the above equation which needs explanation is , which denotes the rate of change of due to the molecular encounters ; thus the increase in which is produced in the element dxdydz by collisions in time is .
The calculation of is the immediate object of our investigation .
The motion of the mass centre of two colliding molecules remains unaltered by the encounter , and this point may be taken as the origin of a system of uniformly moving axes , relative to which each molecule will describe an orbit in a plane through ; the two orbits will be nilar to each other and symmetrical with respect to the line of apses .
If the molecules move with sufficient velocity to carry them beyond the range of each other 's action , the will each have a pair of asymptotes ; the asymptotes of the paths while entering on collision are parallel and separated by a distance ( say ) , and the effect of the collision is to turn the direction * Thus the number of molecules in a volume element which possess velocities whose three components lie between and and and , is ; this property defines .
Evidently ; is , of course , also a function of and in general .
A similar function exists for the molecules See JEANS ' ' Dynamical Theory of Gases\ldquo ; ( Camb .
Univ. Press , 1904 ) , pp. 276-279 ; or BOLTZMANN'S ' Vorlesungen uber Gastheorie , ' vol. , S20 .
The terms collision and encounter are used indifferently to signify any mutual action of the cules which affects their velocities .
of the relative velocity ( say ) through an angle in the plane of the orbits ( where is the angle between an asymptote and the line of apses ) , the molecules travelling away from one another along the second pair of asymptotes with the relative velocity unchanged .
The angle is a function of and which depends upon the nature of the molecular forces .
The velocity components of a molecule after collision with a molecule can therefore be written down , *from merely geometrical considerations , in terms of the original components , , and , the latter being the angle between the plane of the orbits ( which contains and p ) and a plane containing and parallel with the axis of .
Thus ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) The a1lgle is introduced only for symmetry , as it is zero ; and are given by ( 5 ) and a similar equation in which replaces .
Of course , ( 6 ) This notation having been explained , we return to the consideration of ; we divide this into two parts and , the former representing the part due to collisions of the molecules among themselves , the latter that due to collisions with the molecules .
Thus ( 7 ) Then it is not difficult to prove that ( 8 ) where in which is the same function of .
as is of ; thus denotes the change in the value of for a molecule , produced by a collision with a molecule JEANS ' " " Dynamical Theory of Gases , \ldquo ; pp. 284-288 ; BOLTZMANN'S 'Vorlesungen uber Gastheorie , ' vol. , S21 .
See the original papers by MAXWELL , or the treatises by BOLTZMANN and JXiNS , already quoted .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
The value of may be obtained from by making , \amp ; c. , throughout .
The problem before us consists in the evaluation of the on the right-hand side of the last equation , with certain special forms of Q. Before proceeding with this we shall first write down the forms assumed by the equation of transfer ( 1 ) in these cases .
2 .
Special Forms of the of Transfer .
The equation ( 1 ) is more convenient for use in the equivalent form In dealing with the problem of heat conduction we shall have to put and ) but in this case it will be sufficient to consider the case of a gas at rest , so that , and the left-hand side of the above equation becomes simply .
On the right-hand side , in finding , we must , of course , not put till the differentiation has been performed .
Thus , when we have ) so that , and the equation of transfer becomes* ( 9 ) , where we have written for vanishes because the energy of the molecules , bein wholly translational , is unaltered by the encounters of the molecules among themselves .
In writing out these equations of transfer , it is customary and sufficient to neglect the mean values of odd functions of in comparison with the mean of even functions , and also to neglect the differences betweell the mean values of responding even such in comparison with these mean values themselves ; thus we may write , and neglect in comparison with .
Similarly we may neglect UV in comparison with , and the latter we may calculate as if MAXWELL'S law of * The suffix on the right-hand side is to indicate that are considering a at rest .
Similarly in equation ( 10 ) .
distribution of velocity held exactly .
This is because we shall only be considering slight disturbances from the uniform steady state .
Thus from MAXWELL'S law of distribution* we find that .
Putting , and taking , we find that , so that the equation of transfer takes the form or ( since , as we shall see later , on p. 447 , the left-hand side of this equation is of a lower order than the terms on the right ) ( 10 ) We next put and in order to consider the phenomenon of viscosity ; in this case , of course , we must take into account the mass velocity of the gas .
The substitution of these values of in the general equation is quite straightforward , so that we set down the results at once : ( 11 ) ( 12 ) We now turn to the calculation of and ; the value of will not be calculated directly , but obtained from by transformation of co-ordinates , and the value of will ultimately be eliminated from our equations , and so need not be calculated .
First of all we shall calculate the values of from equations ( 2 ) for substitution in ( 8 ) .
Since , however , several terms of disappear on integration with respect to , it will be most convenient if we immediately calculate r 3 .
Values of In calculating we shall find it convenient , partly for immediate brevity , but much more for the sake of a subsequent transformation of the variables of integration in ( 8 ) , to write ( 13 ) ( 14 ) * In which See JEANS ' treatise , $336 , 338 .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
Thus and ( 15 ) writing .
Also , we have ( 16 ) ( 17 ) where Since the mass velocities of the two systems of molecules are the same , we have and two similar equations .
Considering , it is easily seen that where we have expressed the result in terms of and ; on making the above transformations we obtain ( 18 ) We next consider ; we write , where , and similarly for and .
Since , we have It is easy to show that and from the last three equations it readily follows that ( 19 ) MR. S. CHAPMAN ON THE KINETIC THEORy OF .
A GAS Integration with Respect to The integrand of equation ( 8 ) contains explicitly in the term , and implicitly in ( which is a function of and ) ; the latter occurs only in the form and .
Hence to integrate with respect to we need only know the values of the two integrals* which are functions of only .
It is sufficient , at present , to denote them by the symbols and , leaving their further consideration till later .
As the functional relation between , and , and consequently also the values of the above integrals , depends on the law of molecular interaction , which will differ according as the collision in question takes place between two molecules , two molecules , or one of each kind , we distinguish between the three cases by adding the suffixes 11 , 22 , 12 respectively to and .
Thus ( 20 ) ( 21 ) In the case of a MaxwelliaIl gas the expressions are independent of , so that the integrals just written can be evaluated in terms of mean values of functions of without any knowledge of the functions , In general , however , this is not possible ; we require some knowledge of these functions , which express the law of distribution of velocity , in order to make further progress .
4 .
The .
of Distribution of Velocity .
It is well known that in a gas which has had time to attain a uniform state the functions have the respective forms * The factors and are added merely for convenience .
Also in the case of a gas whose molecules are point centres of force which attract -one another according to the fifth-power law .
This case , among others , is considered in Part IL , and probably is nearer to actual fact than MAXWELL'S case.\mdash ; Note added October , 1911 .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLy SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
which we shaU denote by .
When there are slight inequalities of temperature and mass motion in the gas , we shall suppose that where and are expansible in the form of power series ( without the constant terms ) in the variables and respectively .
The coefficients will be small quantities which are functions of the velocity and temperature , and their derivatives , at the point considered .
Thus and represent the small disturbances from the normal law of distribution , caused by the slight lack of uniformity in the gas .
MAXWELL and considered that the terms of the first three degrees are sufficient for the adequate representation of the disturbed state , and I shall follow them in this assumption .
Thus we write ( 22 ) where the factors , are added merely for convenience in the integration .
We shall have a similar equation for , in which , are replaced by , .
Since , by definition , we have or ( 23 ) * By MAXWELL in his memoir Stresses in Rarefied Gases 'Phil .
Tr ' 1879 , 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. , p. 681 ; by BOLTZMANN in his ' Vorlesungen uber ) eorie , ' vol. , p. 18 In each cnse the assumption was made in connection with a AIaxwellian gas , but there are good grounds for believing that it is equally valid in general .
As neither MAXWELL nor TZnrANN considered it necess to give any justification for their procedure , I deliberately followed the same course , more especially ths attempt to make the step perfectly rigorous would have necessitated the introduction of much matical analysis which would be out of place hsre .
I shonld also mention that ENSKOG Phys. Zeitschrift , January , has made an attempt to determine directly the form of the function , applying methods of integration , similar in many ways to those used in this paper to evaluate , to an equation arrived at by ( ' ' vol. , p. 114 .
From the expression for thus tained E deduccs of the of viscosity and thermal conduction for a simple gas .
I am indebted to Prof. LARMOR for tho reference to ENSKOG'S work .
of hich I was till fter this paper had been communicated to the oyal sicty .
add , 1911 .
oIne of these statements are modified by the last note on p. 483 .
VOL. CCXI .
Similarly , since by definition , we have ( 24 ) and four similar equations .
* We require the mean values of the following functions of , ; similarly for the second system of molecules .
As usual , being the absolute temperature , we have .
The various components of partial pressure due to the first gas , \amp ; c. , are given by since ; the mean hydrostatic pressure is given by ; similarly for the second set of molecules .
In substituting in the equations ( 20 ) , ( 21 ) , we shall write ( by equation 15 ) since , being the product of two first order small quantities , is negligible .
* It should be noted that the above expression for is of the lowest degree consistent with the satisfaction of the requirements .
The function must provide for small changes in the mean values of even functions of , and also of odd functions , both these changes being of the same order .
The terms of the second degree do this for the even functions , being of the first order ; it might at first sight be thought that the terms of the first degree would provide for the odd functions of but this is not so on account of the conditions .
Henoe the terms of the third degree must be present , and their coefficients must t4 same order as \amp ; c.\mdash ; Note added ) , 1911 .
See the note on p. 483 .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SyMMETliICAL MOLKCULES .
5 .
of the The evaluation of the expressions ( 20 ) and ( 21 ) is facilitated by changing the variables , to , in accordance with equations ( 16 ) and ( 17 ) .
The Jacobian of transformation is easily found to be , and the limits remain as before , viz. , and .
The two integrals are now of the form where is an integral polynomial in the given variables ; and are also polynomials in these variables .
Evidently only those terms in the product of and which are of even degree in each of the six variables separately will give any result upon integration .
It is easy , though tedious , to pick out these terms ; evidently if is of odd degree in the six variables combined , only those terms of and whose -coefficients have an odd number of suffixes will need to be considered ; similarly , if is of even degree , we need only consider terms in which have , for coefficients .
Having picked out these terms we are left with a number of integrals of the form The integration with respect to can be carried out immediately\mdash ; most conveniently by changing to polar co-ordinates .
We do the same also in the case of the variables X , changing to the variables .
The integration with respect to the latter two variables is simple , and there remains an integral of the form where , or according as or has the suffix 12 , 11 , or 22 respectively .
We shall consider this more particularly later ; at it is sufficient to denote it by a symbol .
As we shall only need to consider the three cases it is , perhaps , most convenient to denote it by respectively , instead of adopting a more general notation .
To distinguish between the different cases arising from the various functions occurring in the integrand , we add the same dashes and suffixes to , S. Thus we have integrals , and so on , corresponding to the cases when in ths above integral and has the special forms , and so on : similarly for and S. Though the execution of the processes indicated is rather lengthy , it is quite nple and straightforward , so that , without entering into the details of the calculation , we shall quote the results forthwith .
After simplification by means of the equations ( 23 ) and ( 24 ) , we obtain the formulae ( 25 ) ( 26 ) ' where for convenience we have written and for the quantities given by ( 27 ) By putting in the above equations we get also the following : ( 28 ) ( 29 ) By transformation of co-ordinates we obtain the following equations from ( 25 ) and ( 28 ) ( 30 ) ' ( 31 ) *All the formulae ( 25 ) were in the present form before the paper was revised , with the exception of ( 26 ) .
Their calculation was given almost in full , and was performed by essentially the same methods as those explained above .
The work was made rather more lengthy than necessary by the use of an unsymmetrical transformation of the integrals in place of that given in equations ( 13 ) , to which I was led while endeavouring to simplify the calculation of .
The calculation of was also complicated by the fact that the gas was not assumed to be at rest ; but on revision , despite these simplifications , I decided to omit the routine calculations altogether .
Equation ( 26 ) was not given in the paper as originally written because it is connected with the conductivity of mixed gases , and I was then unaware of any experiments ou the subject which would make so tedious a calcnlation worth the while .
I have since found such experimental data , and have therefore worked out the formula ( 26 ) , the results of which ( as will be seen in Part IIL ) show very satisfactory agreement with the observations.\mdash ; Note added October , 1911 .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
6 .
Calculation of Finally we turn to consider , the calculation of which is rathel .
different from that of the foregoing quantities because and and and are now different .
We require in order to determine the coefficient of diffusion .
It is evident from equation ( 2 ) that , so that In the present case we may neglect the small deviation from MAXWELL'S law of distribution of velocities , and thus avoid making any assumption as to the form of F. This is so because in this case ( unlike all the preceding cases considered ) the unit term of in the expression for leads to a term in the final result , so that the terms which would result from the inclusion of and , being multiplied by the small coefficients and , are negligible to our order of accuracy .
The term arising from the unit in is itself a multiple of , which we assume to be so small that its squares and higher powers are negligible ; being thus a small quantity of the first order , the terms arising from and are of the second and higher orders of small quantities .
Thus we now have where we have written for , so that Changing the variables in the above integral to in place of , and recalling that on integration with respect to ) , we obtain where we have written for ; thus .
Since , as has already been mentioned , is a small quantity of the second order the term may be neglected , since it is equal to unity to our order of approximation .
Transforming the variables in the last integral to polar co-ordinates , we have by putting \amp ; c. It must be remembered that is a function of and since All the terms of the exponential series occurring in the integrand of the last integral are negligible account factors except the unit term and the term of the first degree .
The unit term leads to a null result on integration with respect to and .
The first degree term alone contributes to the final result , which ( in our previous notation ) is easily seen to be ( 32 ) If we put we find that , as is otherwise evident , since the momentum of a system of molecules is unaltered by their mutual encounters .
Having now calculated all the values of which we require , we proceed to substitute them in the various special forms of the equation of transfer , in order to obtain expressions for the coefficients of viscosity , diffusion , and conduction in simple and mixed gases .
7 .
The Coefficient of Viscosity of a Simple Gas .
First considering a gas composed of molecules of one kind only , we substitute for ( which in this case equals ) and from equations ( 27 ) and ( 30 ) in the special equations of transfer ( 11 ) and ( 12 ) respectively .
We get Remembering that , see p. 442 ) , and comparing these CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
equations with those of a viscous fluid whose coefficient of viscosity is , viz. , we obtain the following expression for ( 33 ) 8 .
The Coefficient of Conductivity of Simple Gas .
We next substitute for in equation ( 10 ) , and so obtain on substituting for from the equation on p. 442 .
This equation is simplified if we recall the value of from equation ( 32 ) .
Thus* .
If we now substitute for in the equation ( 9 ) , we get .
If we compare this with the equation of conduction of heat in a gas at rest , whose thermal conductivity is , with ( where is the specific heat at constant volume ) remember that is directly proportional to the absolute temperature , we find tha ( 34 ) We can now see why the term ) on the left-hand side of the equation preceding equation is negligible .
The ratio of its coefficient to the coefficient of on the ri hand is now seen to be which is ) exceedingly small in gases under normal conditions .
9 .
The Coefficient of Diffusion .
The general equation of transfer ( 1 ) is true for any system of molecules in a gas , whether in the presence of other systems of molecules or not , provided that no diffusion is taking place ( this restriction arises in the elimination of the external forces , *where it is assumed that , which is true , of course , only when the restriction just mentioned is satisfied ) .
The form of the equation of transfer which is applicable to the more general case now under consideration , where diffusion is taking place , is where X is the omponent of external force .
If we put , and suppose that there are no external forces , and that the motion has assumed a steady state , the equation becomes where we have neglected products of as being small quantities of the second order ; similarly we have neglected such terms as , and have given its proper value The equation just obtained applies to the first system of molecules , being the partial pressure due to this system ; there is a similar equation for the second system .
Since the temperature is supposed to remain constant , we have Now , from equation ( 31 ) , it follows by symmetry that so that The total flow of molecules of the first kind per unit area per unit time is clearly , and also ( by the definition of the coefficient of diffusion ) is equal to *See JEANS ' treatise , p. 279 .
Ibid. , p. 278 CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SyMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
Hence by which the preceding equation may be reduced to This gives as the expression for ( 35 ) By putting , we get the following expression for the coefficient of diffusion of a gas into itself:\mdash ; ( 36 ) 10 .
The Coefficient of Viscosity of a As in dealing with the case of diffusion , we must now use an equation of transfer for each system of molecules .
Writin where ( since the various systems of molecules are supposed to be diffusin through one another , so that \amp ; c. ) and are the same for both systems of molecules , by equations ( 11 ) and ( 12 ) we have In the expressions already obtained for and ( 29 ) there occur terms containing the coefficients .
As we have already seen in discussing the conduction of heat , these coefficients depend upon the existence of variations of temperatures in the gas .
We shall here suppose that the gas is at a uniform temperature throughout , so that the said terms will disappear .
Since this paper was I have found that the cxpression ( 35 ) had already been obtained by LANGEVIN ( Ann. de Chimie et de Physique , ' ( 8 ) , ) , who applied it to the motion electrons in an electric field .
The present proof is shortsr than LANGEVIN'S .
( ' Phys. Qchrift , ' xii , 533 , July , 1911 ) has also published a simplified proof on hnes not like those of above proof .
I indebted to Prof. LARMOR for the reference to ENSKOG'S paper ( which appeared while this paper was the hands of the Royal Society ) , where I found the there roference to LANGEVlN'S theory.\mdash ; -Vote October , 1911 .
VOL. CCXI.\mdash ; A. 3 Thus we have If we write ( 37 ) and substitute for in terms of the coefficient of diffusion , the equation for is simplified to Again , by means of the expression obtained for , the equation ( 27 ) for reduces to We get similar equations for and , writing for the coefficient of viscosity of a gas composed only of the second kind of molecules .
Hence , remembering that , we have where , , We next substitute for and their values respectively in the above equations , and solve so as to obtain ( the total normal pressure parallel to Ox ) in terms of E. After a little reduction we find that where CONSTITUTED OF SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
In these last expressions and are the specific gravities of the two component gases referred to a standard gas whose density at the pressure temperature of the compound gas here considered is ; and is given by ( 38 ) Since the partial pressures of the component gases are directly proportional to , we may write Similarly we may show that is the same multiple of F. Hence , recalling the denotation of and , and comparing the said equations with the equations of pressure in a medium whose coefficient of viscosity is , as in S7 , we obtain the following equation:\mdash ; ( 39 ) 11 .
The Coefficient of Thermal Conductivity of a From equations ( 26 ) and ( 29 ) we see that and can be expressed as in the following equations:\mdash ; where are written for in place of some rather long expressions which can easily be written down from the equations cited .
Remembering the values of and as found in S4 , equation ( 10 ) for , the last equations may be written , .
*Added October , 1911.\mdash ; See the footnote to p. 444 .
Since , so that , on solving we ( - ) ( - ) If we multiply equation ( 9 ) by , and add the correspondin equation for the second system of molecules , we get since the sum of the remaining terms vanishes .
This follows from the principle of conservation of energy , for the last expression represents twice the rate of change of the combined energy of the two systems of molecules due to their mutual collisions , which is evidently zero .
We substitute the values already obtained for and in the last equation , and compare the resulting equation with the equation of conduction of heat in a medium at rest .
As in the case of a simple gas ( S8 ) we obtain the following expression for the thermal conductivity In this equation we must substitute the proper values for , D. I shall not enter into the details of the calculation , which is rather long and complicated , but will simply quote the result in the simplest form .
It must first be mentioned that , the specific heat of the compound gas at constant volume , is connected with the same constants for the component gases , viz. , and , by the following relation:\mdash ; ( 39A ) using the notation of S10 .
The formula finally obtained is ( 40 ) CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRIC MOLECULES .
where are given by the following equations , in which the quantities have the values assigned to them in equations ( 27 ) and ( 37 ) ( 41 ) This completes the first part of the paper .
We proceed now to the evaluation of the quantities , and in some special cases .
PART CERTAIN SPECIAL FORMS 0F MOLECULAR INTERACTION .
12 .
The general expressions which we have obtained in SS 7-11 contain four integrals , , given by the equations ( 42 ) The remaining integrals , and can be obtained at once from and by changing to , and to We recall the values of and from the latter part of S8 .
They are ( 43 ) where is the angle through which the direction of the relative velocity is turned by the mutual action of the two molecules and , while is the distance between the asymptotes of their orbits relative to their mass centre ( S1 ) .
As the above expressions cannot , however , be integrated except in certain special cases ( which fortunately include the most interesting cases ) we consider these n1 order .
13 .
ltigid Elastic Spheres .
The simplest case is that of molecules which are rigid and perfectly elastic spheres , of radu and .
Clearly if exceeds the spheres will not affect one another 's motion , so that .
When is less than , it is evident that Hence and Consequently we find that ( 44 ) From these we obtain the equations ( 45 ) ( 46 ) so that in this case the constants ( defined by equations ( 27 ) and ( 37 ) ) are numerical constants ; in general , they are functions of the temperature .
14 .
IVIolecules which Point Centres of Force .
We next consider the hypothesis that the molecules are geometrical points endowed with inertia and repelling or attracting one another with forces which are functions only of the distance between their centres .
Let be the mutual potential energy of two molecules at distance , and .
let us write in place of .
The first two integrak of the equations of motion of the second molecule in terms of co-ordinates with the first molecule as origin are as usual where A and are constants .
Eliminating the time from these equations we get or CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
Taking the direction of one asymptote for initial line this has the integral .
Since is the relative velocity before collision , and is the perpendicular from the origin on to the asymptote , we have , so that .
The apse is given by the vanishing of the expression in square brackets .
If is the positive root , we have since is the angle between the asymptote and the apsidal radius vector .
For some purposes it is more convenient to transform the variable of last integral to , where .
We thus get being the least positive root of the expression in square brackets .
No further progress can be made without knowledge of the form of ( 1 ) or .
The simplest and most natural form to consider is that corresponding to the case in which the molecules attract or repel one another with a force varying inversely as the power of the distance .
In this case where is a constant depending on the nature of the molecules .
Hence where* Thus is now a function of only .
* When the forces are attractive the sign of is reversed .
In the text the case considered is that of repulsion .
We now transform the variable in the integrals from to so that where ( 47 ) Thus we have The definite integrals in the last two expressions are pure numbers depending on alone.* We shall denote them by and respectively .
We thus have so that , as in the case of molecules which are elastic spheres , is merely a constant multiple of If we substitute the last expressions in the integrals for ( see equations ( 42 ) ) and remember that , we find that ( 48 ) , where * And on whether the molecules repel or attract , there being one value for each case , corresponding each value of These formulae are true whether the forces repulsive or attractive .
The only difference ooours in the value of the numerical constants and CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SyMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
being the constant of attraction or repukion between two molecules in the same way as is the constant for two unlike molecules .
Thus are in this case , as in the preceding case of S13 , numerical constants .
The calculation of and for various values of from the definite integrals already indicated would afford an interesting theoretical investigation , but as actual molecules do not conform very closely to our hypothesis , the practical importance of the matter would hardly justify the labour .
MAXWELL calculated their values , however , by quadrature , in the special case ( the forces bein repulsive ) , and found that* ( 49 ) 15 .
Rigid Spheres which Attract One Another .
It is an undoubted fact that molecules attract one another at small distances ( as is manifest from the force of cohesion , to take but a single example ) .
By considering the effect of such forces in bringing about isions between molecules ( regarded as rigid elastic spheres ) which would otherwise pass by one another , SUTHERLAND had great success in explaining the variation of viscosity with temperature .
His treatment of the problem , while very suggestive , and forming an important contribution to the kinetic theory , laid no claim to rigour .
In applying the present methods to the study of the same problem , we shall use the notation of SS 13 and 14 ; will now represent the mutual potential due to the forces of cohesion .
As before , we consider the path of the centre of the second molecule relative to that of the first .
When the apsidal distance exceeds , no collision takes place , and the deflection is given by same equation as in S 14 , viz. , by ( 50 ) When , however , the apsidal distance is less than a collision will take place , and the deflection is twice the angle between the asymptote of the relative path and the radius vector from the centre of the first molecule to that of the second when the two are in contact ( i.e. , for The differential equation of the relative path is The condition for a collision is evidently ' Scientffic Papers , ' vol. ii .
, p. 42 .
and are , of oursc , the as and 'Phil .
Mag 1893 , ( 5 ) , xxxvi .
, p. 507 VOL. CCXI.\mdash ; A. Since the forces are attractive , is negative , so that ( 51 ) is positive ; we shall denote it by for convenience .
If we write for the condition for a collision becomes Next , by elementary geometry , the angle , between the radii vectores and , is given by so that for we have .
Consequently we have where in the latter integral is given by equation ( 50 ) .
We denote the latter integral by , the form of the function depending on the law of attraction between the molecules .
Thus .
Similarly we have , where Substituting these values in the integrals , we find that where denotes the last on the preceding line .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
With a similar notation for , \amp ; c. , we find that The terms \amp ; c. , represent the effect of the attractive forces in deflecting the molecules without inducing collisions ; they are functions of the temperature in general , and can be expanded in ascending powers of , i.e. , in descending powers of .
It may be shown that in each case they are of the form where , 4 , or 5 , according as we are considering , or S. Hence the preceding formulae may be written , , and so on , where we have put , in his formula for the coefficient of viscosity , neglected all the terms of lower order in than , and the of the formula in representing the variations of viscosity with temperature ( in the case of gases , though not in the case of vapours ) seems to show that this procedure is legitimate under ordinary conditions in gases .
This is equivalent to the neglect of the effect of the attractive forces deflecting molecules without producing collisions .
If we agree to neglect these terms our formulae become ( 52 ) denotes the universal gas-constant of the formula where we have written In this case , therefore , the constants are no longer independent of the temperature .
It must not be forgotten that these last equations do not apply to vapours .
PART III.\mdash ; DISCUSSION 0F THEORETICAL RESULTS , AND COMPARISON W1TH 16 .
The principal formulae arrived at in the first part of this work are ( 33 ) ; they are quite general and involve no hypothesis as to the mode of interaction between molecules ( it being always understood that these are spherically symmetrical ) .
Although these formulae indicate certain general laws , which require no knowledge of the nature of the encounters , for the most part the equations can be reduced to a useful form only when the quantities symbolically denoted by , and are properly evaluated .
This can be done only in certain special cases ; and in Part II .
these calculations have been performed for three kinds of molecules , viz. , rigid elastic spheres , point centres of force repelling or attracting one another according to the inverse power law , and rigid elastic spheres surrounded by fields of attractive force .
The results of these calculations are given in equations ( 44 ) , ( 48 ) , and ( 52 ) respectively .
When the formulae are thus completed , by comparison with experimental data we may find which of these three representations of the molecules best explains the facts , though , as all of them are somewhat artificial and ideal , it is not necessary that any one should excel the others in all respects .
We shall find , however , that the third hypothesis ( that the molecules are rigid elastic attracting spheres ) is , on the whole , much the best of the three .
It is , indeed , remarkable that so simple a mechanism can explain so much .
As it might be considered that the choice of formula allowed by the general nature of our theory may possibly conceal errors due to some weakness in the foundations of the analysis , I shall first consider the cases wherein this latitude of choice is least , beginning with the case where there is none at all .
I refer to equation ( 34 ) , viz. , which is a perfectly definite relation between three measurable quantities .
I shall * Part III .
has been entirely rewritten in October-November , 1911 ; much new matter , not in the original Part III .
, has been added , this consisting chiefly ( at Prof. LARMOR'S suggestion of further comparisons of the theory with experiment .
Wherever possible I have used recent data , and I have in particular made great use of the results obtained by the pupils of Prof. DORN , of Halle , from a welldirected series of experimsnbs on viscosity , diffusion , and conduction .
I am indebted to Prof. DORN for the loan of many reprints and dissertations relating to these experiments .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
next discuss the formulae for the conductivity and viscosity of mixed gases , as these only entail reference to the special law of interaction in the case of the numerical constants , and ( whose values are , moreover , approximately known , as they do not differ very much with the special nature of the molecules ) .
Lastly , I shall consider diffusion and the viscosity of a simple gas , as the corresponding formulae involve the most intimate molecular data , which can be measured only in very indirect ways .
Any defect in analytical approximation involved in the theory is probably quite under ordinary conditions of pressure and temperature ; the assumption made in S4 concerning the law of distribution of velocities is the only place where error might arise , and both on theoretical and experimental grounds this appears to be inappreciable .
Therefore , where no finite molecular hypothesis is involved , the agreement with experimental data should be perfect within the limits of experimental error .
These conditions apply to tion ( just quoted , and to a less extent to the formulae for conductivity and viscosity in mixed gases , where only slight weight attaches to the special law of force which must in their cases be assumed .
Very different considerations apply to the formulae for diffusion and viscosity .
These have great weight in indicatin the best representation of the molecules by the manner in which they vary with the temperature , but if them to determine the molecular diameter which is involved in the expressions for and , we are treading on hazardous ground .
Any discrepancy between the molecular diameter obtained from and that obtained from must be ascribed rather to the artificial nature of the molecules postulated by the theory than to any defect in the theory itself From what modern electrical theories teach us , it appears extremely unlikely that any definite molecular diameter exists at all , even in the case of monatomic gases .
Hence , while the formulae and afford valuable independent means of determining the approximate dimensions of molecules , their interpretation must not be strained too far ; the agreement between sets of values may not necessarily lie within the limits of experimental error .
While the present theory is strictly concerned only with monatomic gases , it is largely applicable to polyatomic gases ; for , as the molecules are in rapid motion , they must exert their actions equally in all directions during any short space of time , will therefore behave very much as though they were spherically symmetrical .
All general laws which hold good for monatomic gases may be expected to hold also for polyatomic gases ; and the results of experiment bear out this conclusion .
Numerical agreement is not to be looked for , however , as the variable action of the molecule will affect the numerical constants of the theory in taking the , just as would be the case if we had supposed all the llolecules to be moyino b same speed , instead of different speeds varying widely about a mean value .
In addition , See the note on p. 483 .
MR. S. CHAPMAN ON THE KINETIC THEORY OF A GAS as the present theory does not deal in any way with internal molecular energy , it will not apply to the conduction of heat in polyatomic gases .
17 .
The Coefficient of Conduction .
Our expression for this quantity in terms 01 the coefficient of viscosity and the specific heat at constant volume is which assumes that the molecules are spherically symmetrical , but is otherwise perfectly general .
All previous writers on the kinetic theory have agreed on the conclusion that where is a numerical factor ; but here agreement ends .
MAXWELL , : dealing with molecules which are point centres of force repelling one another according to the inverse fifth-power law , found as a result of his theory that -6z ; this is , of course , a very special case of the present theorem .
Other writers , such as CLAUSIUS , STEFAN , and O. E. MEYER , have found values for varying from upwards , many of these calculations , however , being confessedly rough attempts , while MAXWELL'S theory attained a very high degree of accuracy .
MAXWELL'S hypothesis is known not to be borne out by experimental facts ( such as the variation of viscosity with temperature ) , and the theory of conduction which has hitherto found most acceptance is MEYER'S , which assumes that the molecules are rigid elastic spheres .
MEYER'S work was a valuable attempt at an exact treatment of the problem , but the method adopted ( that used by CLAUSIUS and MAXWELL in their early researches , but afterwards abandoned by MAXWELL as being misleading ) did not really allow of great accuracy .
The expression for which was arrived at involved a definite integral , which was calculated ( using mechanical quadratures ) by CONRAU and NEUGEBAUER.improved the proof of MEYER'S theorem , but his corrections did not affect the final result .
The law obtained was ; it has generally been considered that the difference between this value of and MAXWELL'S value ) , arise from the different nature of the molecules considered .
This view is in sharp contradiction to the theorem we have proved .
Hence , since actual molecules do not conform to MAXWELL'S hypothesis , whatever 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. , p. 74 .
By a numerical slip he gave the value of as S. The error was pointed out by BOLTZMANN and POINCARh .
MEYER'S ' Kinetic Theory of Gases ' ( English edition , 1899 ) , Chapter IX .
' " " Dynamical Theory of Gases Chapter XIII .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
experimental evidence we can adduce in favour of the value , will confirm that theorem .
As both theories treat of monatomic gases , we must seek for evidence with regard to them .
When this paper was written the only monatomic gas , of which I was aware , for which is known was mercury vapour , referred to by MEYER .
* While a number of polyatomic gases obeyed his law fairly closely , this monatomic gas alone formed a striking exception .
KOCH has determined for mercury vapour at C. and C. , and also at the much lower temperature C. ; SCHLEIERdetermined at .
; these data , together with the theoretically calculated value of , lead to 15 as the value of .
MEYER raises some weighty objections against the accuracy of the data , viz. , ( i ) that KOCH'S three values of show an unlikely amount of variation with the temperature ; ( ii ) that the condensation of saturated mercury in the capillary probably affected the determination of ; and ( iii ) that it is uncertain whether the vapour is completely monatomic at .
While the resulting value of is certainly unreliable , it is hard to conceive of the experimental errors being so great as to explain the difference between and 15 .
So far as it , it tends rather to the support of the present theory .
Quite recently , however , I have found that disproved MEYER'S theory nine years ago , by showing that for the true monatomic gases argon and helium .
S As these determinations are important in this connection , few details of them will bs given .
method , now generally accepted as the best , was used to determine , heat being conducted by the gas from a heated platinum wire .
The gases were very carefully prepared and purified and in the reduction of the observations ( which were made at two temperatures ) due corrections were applied for heat lost by conduction along the wire and for the temperature drop at the walls .
The following values of were obtain Argon , Helium , Air the last named being determined as a check on the apparatus , and reeing well with ' etic Theory , ' p. 'WIED .
Ann 1889 , xxxvi .
, p. 346 .
ibid. , , p. 857 .
S W. SCHWARZE , Disscrbtion , ' Halle , 1902 ; ysik , Phys Zeitschrift , ' 4 , p. 229 , 1903 .
MEHLISS ( ' Halle Diss 1902 ) mads an earlier determination of $ for rgon by the method , and found ; this result was in such sbriking disagreement with MEYER'S theory that SCHWARZE investigated the tter very thoroughly , both for argon and for helium , by the more accurate method due to ScHLEIERhfACIIER .
result was quite unexpected , and neithc-r observer seemed to regard it as confirmation of hypothesis , but rather as being duo to a in MEYER'b theory\mdash ; which view is nearer the , according to the present theorj ' .
The helium contained * per .
impurity ( probably of ; the by SCHULTZE Phys to determine the value of used ave .
value and MULLEn'S value obtained for argon .
SCHULTZES .
determined the following values of for argon and helium , using the same materials as SCHWARZE:\mdash ; Argon , Helium Using the followin values of SCHWABZE thus finds these values of Argon , Helium I proceed to discuss briefly the case of polyatomic gases .
It is immediately obvious that the present theory does not apply here , for in actual fact differs widely from its value for the monatomic gas contemplated in the foregoing calculations ( this is not to say that is not equal to for any polyatomic gas , but merely that our theory leaves the question perfectly open The same remark applies to any theory which supposes the molecules to be devoid of internal energy\mdash ; in particular to MEYER'S theory .
But the latter has derived all its support from polyatomic gases .
MEYER'S views on this poin underwent some changes .
In he seems reluctantly to have accepted the theory ( strongly upheld by STEFAN and BOLTZMANN ) that the internal and translational molecular energies travelled at different rates ( the latter most rapidly ) , so that the conductivity would be less for a gas whose molecules possess much atomic energy for a similar gas with little atomic energy .
In 1899 , however , he held that the conductivity is the same for both kinds of energy , and supported this view by an unsound argument based on the law of equipartition .
This enabled him to assert that is equal to for all gases , and so obtain all possible support from the data for polyatomic gases .
More modern data would give much less support to the theory , as we shall see .
But such disproof is unnecessary , for SCHWARZE'S experiments conclusively show ( i ) that MEYER'S value ' WIED .
Ann 48 , p. 180 , 1893 .
Ibid. , 60 , p. 82 , 1897 .
'Halle Diss 1902 .
S 'Halle Diss 1901 ; 'Ann . .
Phys 5 , p. 140 , 1901 , and 6 , p. 302 , 1901 .
Calculated from the formula for the helium used , and was taken as 427 .
This leads to the above value of , given in ' Ann. .
Phys 11 , p. 303 , 1903 .
In ' Phys. Zeitschrift , ' 8 , p. 229 , 1903 , was taken as 424 , which made for argon is calcuiated from determined DITTENBERGER , Halle Diss and determined NIEMEYER , Smithsonian Physical Tables , .
Thus .
0002104 .
'Kinetic Theory of Gases , ' 1st edition , 1877 .
Ibid , 2nd edition , English translation , 1899 , pp. 291-296 .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLy SyMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
465 of is theoretically unsound , and ( ii ) that the internal energy does not travel at the same rate as the translational energy .
Hence the agreement of MEYER'S theory with experiment must be accidental .
BOLTZMANN , who opposed MEYER'S view , developed a theory of conduction*on the basis of MAXWELL'S hypothesis , taking into account the internal energy .
He obtained the following relation between and , the ratio of the specific heats , .
This reduces to MAXWELL'S law when , but the formula , as we shall see , is not born out by the experimental data .
I have not attempted to work out a theory of conduction in polyatomic gases , and Shall*)e content with pointing out how ( in a general way , and with some marked exceptions , which may , however , be due to faulty data ) tends to be larger or smaller ( while always less than ) according as a gas has less or more internal energy .
The table below gives the values of for all the gases for which determinations are available , together with , and the values of calculated from them , and also as calculated from BOLTZMANN'S formula .
The gases are arranged in increasing order of , i.e. , in diminishing order of , the ratio of internal energy to total energy .
'POGG .
Ann 157 , 1876 , pp. 457-469 .
The theory is partly empirical , being an adaptation of MAXWELL'S formula in which .
BOLTZMANN states that the ] cocfficients wouId have to be altered if any other molecular hypothesis were adopted .
Our theorem shows that this is not true , at any rate when These values of are taken from JEANS ' ' Dynamical Theory of Gases " " ) , except whero the contrary is indicated .
1 LANDOLT and BoRNSTEIN'S tables ; observed by MuLLEI .
2 'Smithsonian PhysicaI Tables , ' 1910 ; observed by 8 Ibid. ; by WULLNER .
These values of are taken from JEANS ' treatise ( p. 218 ) , except where the contrary is They are due to WIEDEMANN and WiTLLNEIt .
VOL. CCXI.\mdash ; A. MR. S. CHAPMAN ON THE KINETIC THEORY OF A GAS 4 Calculated from 5 , 6 Calculated from and , as given in the Smithsonian tables .
7 ZIEGLER , 'Halle Diss 1904 .
STEFAN ' Wiener Sitz 72 , II .
, p. 69 , 1875 ) had found for methane , and WINKELIIANN ( ' POGG .
Ann 156 , p. 497 , 1875 ) obtained the value 647 .
There are no previous determinations for ethane .
8 Determined by WINKELMANN , as given in the Smithsonian tables .
9 WINKELMANN ( MEYER , p. 295 ) .
10 SCHWARZE , .
cit. ; WINKELMANh'S and MULLER'S determinations have already been mentioned .
There are also experiments by TODD Proc and ECKERLEIN ( ' Ann. Phys 3 , p. 120 , 1900 ) , the latter being at low temperatures ( for air , hydrogen , and carbon dioxide ) .
11 GUNTHER , 'Halle Diss 1906 .
Also see MEYER'S treatise for earlier determinations .
The authorities for the above values of will be given later , when we come to discuss the coefficient of viscosity .
The table shows that the results agree ngither with MEYIBR'S nor theory .
The values of for methane and ammonia stand out from the others , which show a tendency to increase with ; as all the values of are less than it would appear that the view of STEFAN and BOLTZMANN is correct , that the atomic energy travels slower than the translational energy .
In conclusion it may be remarked that the formula shows that 3 will behave ( as the temperature or pressure varies ) in a way which can be predicted from the behaviour of and separately , if the equation is correct .
Experiments have confirmed this , and we shall therefore leave the discussion of these laws till we come to the simpler case of itself 18 .
The of Conduction for a Mixed Gas .
The expression we have obtained for this quantity enables us to determine it in terms of the coefficients of viscosity of the two pure gases forming the mixture , and of their coefficient of diffusion , provided that we know the law of interaction between the molecules .
The latter is involved in the constants , and , but these do not vary very much with the law of force .
In Part IL of this paper we have determined their values in some special cases as follows:\mdash ; Rigid elastic spheres ( 46)\mdash ; MAXWELL'S repelling molecules ( 48 and ) Attracting rigid spheres ( 52)\mdash ; ' ' where ( as we shall see in S21 ) the constant must be determined by experimen CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SyMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
on the variation of the coefficient of diffusion ( of gases concerned ) with temperature .
The formula for the coefficient of conduction in a mixed gas ( equations 40 and 41 ) seems very complicated , but the calculations from it any particular case are quite simple .
Fortunately we have experimental data for testing the law .
WACHSMUTH , * at Halle , has recently determined the conductivity of mixtures of argon and helium in various proportions ; the gases being monatomic , our formulae are properly applicable .
WACHSMUTH himself undertook the research , at Prof. DORN'S suggestion , in order to determine in the formula , taking the value of from TANZLER'S experiments ( which will be discussed in the next ction ) on the viscosity of mixtures of argon and helium .
He found that so determined for the mixture was greater than , approaching a maximum ( about 4 ) when there was 60 per cent. of helium in the gas , and fallin to , as SCHWARZE showed , when either gas was eliminated .
This fact is interesting , but , in the absence of any explanatory theory , does not lead to anything further .
WACHSMUTH also found that the observations could be represented to within 2 per cent. or 3 per cent. by the formula ( modelled on a similar formula for the viscosity of gases which we shall consider presently ) .
As there were only four observations and two empirical constants the fact is not very remarkable ; when of course , and when we have .
A much better agreement was obtained by allowing the empirical constants A and ( obtained by the method of least squares ) to be imaginary .
In this case the expression reduces to the quotient of a cubic by a quartic homogeneous expression in the variables ; as WACHSMUTH remarks , the relation is good as an interpolation formula , but that is all .
We proceed to determine the value of from our formula .
Taking oxygen as the standard gas ( for which at C. and normal pressure ) we have ( for argon ) equal to 224 , and .
The values of determined by SCHULTZE ( loc. cit. on p. 463 ) , and respectively , will be used ; also the previously given values of .
The coefficient of diffusion for argon and helium has been determined by SCHMIDT and LONIUS ( references giyen in S21 ) ; reduced to C. and normal , in C.G. .
units it We now have all the necessary for the calculation of the .
of rigid spherical molecules aIJd of Maxwellian molecules .
For the case of spherical molecules we need also the coefficient ; this has ]lot been determined , tc 'Halle Diss 1907 ; 'Phys .
Zcitschrift , ' 7 , p. 235 , 1908 .
The method was that to IACHER , and the apparatus lvas previously used by VARZE aTlILR , ady quot As explained in S21 , this valuc is uucertain to withirl 2 per cent. or my knowledge , but the value 100 ( intermediate between the values of for argon and helium ) is near enough for our purpose , as the constant does not have much weight in the formula .
From the equations ( 41 ) it is an easy matter to calculate the constants ; we find the following for the three special kinds of molecules considered:\mdash ; Rigid Maxwellian molecules\mdash ; Attractin spheres\mdash ; We have written and in place of and respectively .
Our formula thus becomes where is given by equation ( 39A ) .
The following table gives the values of and and the observed values of from WACHSMUTH'S paper , together with calculated according to the above three hypotheses:\mdash ; THERMAL Conductivity of Mixtures of Argon and Helium .
* These and nearly all the other calculations in Part III .
have been performed with a slide rule , which is accurate enough for the purpose .
was determined at two temperatures ; we are , of course , using the value reduced to C. , as given by WACHSMUTH .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
Considering the nature of the calculation , the agreement is extremely good in all three cases ( of course the values of 3 for the pure gases are taken from the formula 34 ) .
The hypothesis that the molecules are rigid elastic spheres surrounded by fields of attractive force gives notably the best results , however , the agreement being within 3 per cent. in every case\mdash ; which is little , if any , more than is introduced by uncertainty of the data .
The above are the available data for monatomic gases , so far as I know .
WASSILEWJA* has the conductivity of mixtures of hydrogen and oxygen , and , of course , we have the conductivity of air ; but as these are mixtures of polyatomic gases our formula does not apply to them , so that they will not be discussed here .
In conclusion , it is hardly necessary to remark that our formula for the conductivity of a mixed gas reduces to that for a pure gas on putting or equal to zero .
Since ( as we shall see ) , the coefficient of diffusion , varies inversely as the total pressure , is independent of the pressure , as also are all the other quantities entering into ; hence the coefficient of conduction of a mixture , like that of a pure gas , is independent of the total pressure .
This has been experimentally verified in the case of air .
19 .
The Coefficient of Viscosity of The viscosity of mixed gases has been much , both theoretically and experimentally .
It is especially interesting on account of the curious fact , first noticed by GRAHAM ( ' Phil. Trans 1846 ) , that the addition of a moderate amount of light gas ( hydrogen , in the case mentioned ) to a much more viscous and heavy gas ( carbon dioxide ) may actually increase the viscosity of the latter .
The same phenomenon was commented on by MAXWELL in a Bakerian Lecture ( 1866 ) , the gases receiving particular mention being air and hydrogen .
The principal formulae which have been deduced for the viscosity of a mixture are due to MAXWELL , PULUJ , S SUTHERLAND and Of these only the first is based on an adequate proof , but as it is a particular case of my own formula ( got by putting ) it does not need separate discussion .
PULUJ'S formula is based on an ingenious adaptation of the earlier theories of viscosity of a pure , and although , like those theories , it is only approximate , and in some ways not 'Phys .
Zeitschrift , ' 5 , 1904 , p. 737 .
MEYER , 'Kinetic Theory , ' Chapter IX .
; TODD , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , 83 , p. 19 , 1909 .
'Scientific Papers , ' vol. ii .
, p. 72 .
S 'CARL'S Repertorium , ' , p. 'Wicn .
Sitzungsber 1879 , , Abth .
2 , ) ) .
MEYER , 'Kinetic Theory , ' p. 200 .
'Phil .
Mag 1895 , , p. 421 .
' Verh . .
Deutsch .
Phys. Ges 4 , p. 238 , 1902 .
satisfactory , nevertheless forms a useful interpolation formula .
expression is ( PULUJ ) .
SUTHERLAND , by an argument which though not rigorous is interesting and suggestive , arrives at the formula ( SUTHERLAND , THIESEN ) , which THIESEN also obtained by a different method of proof .
While , however , THIESEN left the formula as an empirical one , SUTHERLAND strove to find expressions for A and in terms of molecular constants .
He found such expressions , but did so half empirically by a study of GRAHAM'S data .
In the case of the gases which he considered , a very fair agreement was obtained .
My own formula ( 39 ) can be written ( 53 ) where are given by equation ( 39 ) in terms of ( the coefficient of diffusion ) , and a constant which depends on the particular law of action between the molecules ; is unknown , but may be expected to lie near or between the values already found for it in special cases for elastic spheres , for Maxwellian molecules ) .
Of the above formulae , that by PULUJ is the only one which is perfectly explicit .
THIESEN'S expression is completely empirical , and is useful only as an interpolation formula .
PULUJ'S relation shares the virtues and defects of the theory on which it is founded , and therefore prescribes a law of variation with temperature inconsistent with the facts for most gases .
THIESEN'S law , on the other hand , does not give any information concerning variation with temperature , and the constants A and must be empirically determined for each case .
The formula ( 34 ) or ( 53 ) , as we shall see later , completely expresses the relation between and the temperature , but , bein quite general , it specifies a different law for each molecular hypothesis ; and while , conversely , the determination of and the law of temperature variation from experimental data may lead to further knowledge as to the best molecular hypothesis , this very generality gives the formula a semi-empirical character .
On theoretical grounds it is desirable that the success of equation ( 34 ) as an interpolation formula should be tested .
Excellent experimental material exists for the purpose .
SCHMITTt has lately given a resume ' of an extensive series of experi* Thus it tacitly implies that the viscosity varies as the square root of the absolute temperature ( since the theories on which it is based lead to this law ) .
'Ann . .
Phys 30 , p. 393 , 1909 .
Full rsferences to the original sources of the data are there given .
SCHMITT was apparently unaware of SUTHERLAND'S formula , but , of course , it is tho same as THIESEN'S , if treated empirically .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLy TRICAL MOLECULES .
ments on viscosity carried on at Halle , and has compared the results with the formulae of PULUJ and THIESEN .
The former agrees remarkably well with the observations , the residuals seldom exceeding 3 per cent. THIESEN'S formula agrees even better still , the residuals rarely exceeding 1 per cent. This is not unnatural , as the constants A and were found by the method of least squares to three or four significant figures .
I have taken two of the longest tables given by SCHMITT , and have roughly found the value of ( by trial and error ) which makes the formula ( 34 ) or ( 53 ) agree most closely with the observations .
The results are given in the following VISCOSITY of Mixtures of Argon and Helium at C. VISCOSITY of Mixtures of Oxygen and Hydrogen at C. * In the first table the experimental constants used were as follows : ( relative to oxygen ) , ( at C ) ( at 15 C in C.G.S. units ) from experiments , .
The values of were 7 897 , 6 897 , 1 069 , and 2 respectively .
In the second table the values of were 2014 and 878 , .
001353 , from experiments , , at C. and in C.G.S. units .
The of , G. were 11 34 , 9 .
676 , 1.049 , respectively .
The sum of the residuals between columns 3 and 4 is 77 in the first case , 54 in the second* ; more accurate determinations of would probably reduce these figures , but the agreement is already within the limits of experimental error .
It will be seen that the values of which have been found , viz. , for argon and helium and for oxygen and hydrogen , are intermediate between the values corresponding to the elastic-sphere theory and MAXWELL'S hypothesis , a result which confirms our theory .
It is impossible to tell what special molecular structure these numbers indicate until the integrals of Part II .
of this paper are worked out for other cases ; it may be that a very slight modification of one of the hypotheses there considered would explain the figures .
The above tables , and others which might be given , show that our formula agrees well with observation , with a value of accordant with the theory ; its success is therefore more significant than that of THIESEN'S formula , with its two empirical constants .
It may be noticed that THIESEN'S expression can also be put into the form ( 53 ) , with the speciality , however , that a relation exists between the three independent constants of ( 53 ) reducing them to two .
Nevertheless , this agreement in functional form is sufficient to explain the success of THIESEN'S expression as an interpolation formula over the limited range of and .
It may be concluded that , as far as the latter purpose goes , PULUJ'S formula , though not theoretically well founded , is the best ( when the values of and at the temperature considered are assigned ) , because it is very simple in form , quite definite , and sufficiently accurate for most purposes ; while THIESEN'S formula requires the knowledge of two empirical constants , and my own formula is not so well suited for numerical calculation .
The study of the variation of the viscosity of mixed gases with the'temperature is best deferred till the analogous question has been discussed for simple gases ; the subject will therefore be briefly discussed in S22 .
20 .
The Coefficient of Viscosity of Gas .
The formulae which have already been discussed do not contain any reference to the internal structure of the molecule , so far as this could be avoided , but are The corresponding figures for THIESEN'S formula are 55 and 51 , and for PULUJ'S formula 126 and 187 .
Cf .
K. SCHMITT , 'Ann . .
Phys 30 , p. 393 , 1909 ; pp. 408 , 406 .
The form of the expression ( 53 ) is well suited to explain the phenomenon mentioned at the beginning of this section .
It shows that is really a weighted mean between and , the weight depending on the ratios and varying with and .
For mixtures of and we have also as , or : is large , on account of the largeness of is given very little weight in the mean except when is very small .
Therefore , for moderate values of the ratio , the value of lies between and , and may exceed the latter considerably .
The same thing may be noted to a small extent in the above argon-helium table .
From the figures are , Cy given , we have , which is greater than , the viscosity of argon at the temperature considered .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
expressed as relations between directly measurable quantities .
This enabled us to verify that our conclusions were borne out by the results 0 experiment .
The equations might have been written otherwise , however , so that formulae should express 3 , in terms of unknown molecular data , which then be found from the experimental values of 3 and ; there would still be some check on the theory by the comparison of the values of the molecular constants found from different formulae .
The reference to these constants was avoided by substitution of and into the formulae , which were thus rendered much simpler ; no such simplification- can be made in the expressions for and and as these the molecular data in the least complicated form , they are much the most suitable for the purpose of determining the diameter of molecules .
Our expression ( SS ) for the viscosity of a simple gas is ; is a function of the temperature only , so also is since ; and , the mass of a molecule , is a constant for any gas .
Hence we have obtained a perfectly general proof ( for the case of a monatomic gas ) that the coefficient of viscosity is independent of the pressure and density of a gas , and depends only on the temperature .
This remarkable law was first discovered by MAXWELL .
If we substitute the values of , which we have already found in special cases ( see equations 45 , 52 , and 48 ) , we get the following special laws : ( 54 ) ( elastic spheres ) ; ( 55 ) ( attracting spheres ) , ( 56 ) ( centres of force ) , where in the last equation we have ( the force between two molecules at distance being ) , and is a number depending only on , having two values for each one of , according as the force attractive or repulsive .
The first equation shows that if the molecules are simple elastic eres the viscosity varies as the square root of the absolute temperature ( this law due to MAXWELL ) ; the second shows that when the spheres also attract one another the VOL. CCXI.\mdash ; A. viscosity varies as , as was first discovered by SUTHEBLAND* ; while the last equation shows that , if the molecules attract or repel one another according to the inverse power law , then is proportional to the power of It is interesting to notice that Lord predicted this law of variation from a consideration of dimensions alone ; the present formula is complete , with an exact analytical expression for the numerical constant .
If we write for the viscosity at C. , the three laws just indicated may be written ' When the molecules repel one another according to the inverse fifth power of the distance , the last equation becomes which was obtained by MAXWELL .
Experiment shows that the second formula ( generally known as SUTHERLAND'S formula ) agrees far better with the actual facts than the others .
MAXWELL'S two hypothetical laws , and , are obeyed ( even approximately ) by very few gases .
The law where represents the variation much better in most cases , but even this applies only over a small range of temperature , after which a new value of is required .
On the other hand , SUTHERLAND'S formula applies universally so far as it has been tested .
It will be sufficient to mention the cases of helium and hydrogen .
SCHMITTS gives tables showing that the law agrees with the observations of these gases from C. to C. ; below C. the agreement ceases to be good .
Thus this evidence tends to confirm the hypothesis that the molecules behave for our purpose like attracting spheres .
The value of has been shown in Part II .
( pp. 457-460 ) to be a multiple of the mutual potential of two molecules in contact with one another .
This was shown by SUTHERLAND in his original paper , but as his mathematics was intentionally only approximate , his numerical constant is not correct The correction may be of importance when the theory of the constant is further developed .
It must be remembered always that is only the beginning of an infinite series of powers * Phil. Mag 1893 ( 5 ) , xxxvi .
, p. 507 .
" " On the Viscosity of ArgoII as affected by Temperature 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. iv .
, p. 452 , and p. 481 .
We are referring to gases under normal conditions ; when the critical point approached , the lavr ceases to be valid .
S 'Ann . .
Phys 30 , 1909 , p. 399 , where references to the original sources will be found , as well as data for gases .
This does not affect his discussion ( loc. cit. ) of the law of action between molecules , as he was there concerned only with the relative values of for different gases .
It is interesting to notice.that RANKINE PhiL Mag January , 1911 , p. 45 , and 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 84 p. 190 ) has found that for several gases is proportional to the critical temperature .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
of , and that later terms become important in the case of vapours , though for ordinary gases these , the first two , terms appear to be enough .
As we have seen , the above laws of variation with temperature given by our theory have been announced before .
The difference between our formulae and the earlier ones chiefly consists ( as regards viscosity ) in the numerical constants .
We have already seen , in the case of the coefficient of conduction , to what grave errors ( instead of ) the older elastic-sphere theory may lead .
The expression given by MEYER for the viscosity differs considerably from the present one ; JEANS* made an undoubted improvement in the older theory by allowing for the persistence of velocities after molecular collisions .
The fact that this important consideration had been previously overlooked illustrates the imperfections of that theory .
As it is , the correction for persistence of velocities is itself of uncertain amount ; however , by its means the discordance between the formula of the older theory , and that given by the present theory for the case of elastic spherical molecules , is reduced almost to 10 per cent. From equations ( 54 ) and ( 55 ) we proceed to determine what evidence the various hypotheses lead to , as regards the size of molecules .
Those formulae are strictly true only for monatomic gases , but can be applied to polyatomic gases with much more safety than could the formulae for the conductivity of gases , where the internal energy ( which here plays little or no part ) was very important .
The formula ( 56 ) could also be used to determine the relative force constants of the molecules when assumed to be point-centres of force , but as this is of less interest we shall not trouble to do so .
The said equations contain , which can be determined from data as to the density of a gas at a given temperature and pressure .
A table of values of for several gases is given by JEANS ( p. 113 , loc. cit. ) .
To determine , the radius of the molecule , we also require to know , or , since , we require to know , which is AVOGADRO'S constant .
JEANS used the value 4 , the best one then available ; but recent researchesS agree in indicating as the correct values , which we shall therefore use here .
In the following table are given the values of , and for some gases , the latter being calculated according to the two hypotheses considered .
It will be noticed that the radii of the molecules on the hypothesls that they attract one another is less than that when no such forces exist ; of course , in the " " Dynamical Theory of Gases p. 238 , p. 250 .
Ihd .
, p. 250 , line 13 , where it is assumed for the sake of simplicity that the excess of momenlum above that appropriate to the point of collision goes in equal proportions to each molecule .
In our notation , JEANS ' formula ( 581 ) may be written which is 896 times our own expression .
S ( Phil. Mag 1909 , February , p. 320 ) lotes RUTHERFORD as the , figure , and mentions that it is in good agreement with MR. S. CHAPMAN ON THE KINETIC THEORy OF A GAS latter case the apparent size includes part of the extension of the field of force of the molecule .
In selecting the values of and I have preferred to use the mean of recent determinations ( where these exist ) rather than to go back to GRAHAM'S or OBERMAYER'S experiments .
Oxygen .
Nitrogen Nitrous oxide .
Nitric oxide Carbon dioxide Carbon monoxide .
Chlorine .
thylene 1 Authorities : The value of is a mean of 1714 ( ' LANDOLT and BORNSTEIN'S Tables 1713 ( HOG , 'Proc .
Amer .
Acad 40 , 18 , p. 611 , 1905 ) , 1733 BREITENBACH , Phys , 1730 SCHULTZE , Phys , 1736 ( TANZLER , Verh .
Deutsch .
Phys. Gesell 8 , p. 221 , 1906 ) , and 1702 ( GRINDLEY and GIBSON , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , 80 , p. ; the value of is a mean of 119 4 ( BREITENBACH ) , 113 ( SUTHERLAND , 'Phil .
Mag February , 1909 , p. 320 ) , lll3 RAYEIGH , ' Scientffic Papers , ' vol. , p. 452 , p. 481 ) , and 102 5 ( GRINDLEY and GIBSON ) .
is the mean of 864 ( ' LANDOLT'S Tables ( BREITENBACH , .
cit 841 ( MARKOWSKI , 'Ann . .
Phys 14 , p. 742 , 1904 ) ; is the mean of 71 7 ( BREITENBACH ) , 72 2 ( RAYLEIGH , loc. 83 ( MARKOWSKI , 79 and 72 ( SUTHERLAND , 'Phil .
Mag. ' ( 5 ) , 36 , p. 507 , 1893 , and February , 1909 , p. 320 ) .
3 The mean of 1873 ( LANDOLT ) and 1926 bIARKOWSKI , from ( RAYLEIGH , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 62 , 1897 ; 66 , 1900 ; 67 , 1900 ) , 138 ( MARKOWSKI ) , 127 and 128 ( SUTHERLAND , .
cit 4 GRAHAM and OBERMAYER ( cf. MEYER'S 'Kinetic Theory ' ) 1660 , 1670 , and MARKOWSKI , 1675 ; from 115 , 113 ( MARKOWSKI ) , 109 , 110 ( SUTHERLAND , .
cit from JEANS ' treatise , p. 251 ( due to OBERMAYER ) ; from SUTBIERLAND , 6 BREITENBACH'S value of , and his and SUTHERLAND'S values of both as previously cited .
from 'LANDOLT'S Tables ' ; from SUTHERLAND , 'Phil .
Mag February , 1909 , calculated from ' LANDOLT'S Tables .
' from \ldquo ; 1887 ( SCHIERLOH , 'Halle Diss 1908 , cited by SCHMITT , ' Ann. Phys 30 , 1909 , p. 393 ) , 1879 ( RANKINE , 'Phil .
Mag January , 1911 , p. 45 ) ; and from ( SCHULTZE ) , ( RAYLhIGH ) , ( SCHIERLOH ) , 70 ( RANKINE ) , 76 ( SUTHERLAND , lo .
from 2104 SCHULTZE , SCHIERLOH , ANKINE , from 169 9 l746 , 142 ( by the preceding three authorities ) , and 160 ( SUTHERLAND , loc. cit 10 RANKINE ( lo .
cit CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
As we shall see , independent values of the radii of molecules may be obtained from the coefficient of diffusion , which we proceed to consider .
21 .
The Coefficient of Diffusion .
As the coefficient of diffusion of a gas into itself can be expressed much more simply than that of one gas into another , we will discuss it first , though it cannot be measured experimentally .
The expression obtained in Part I. was Since is proportional to the pressure , it follows that varies inversely as the pressure , the other factors being functions of the temperature alone .
If we substitute for from equations ( 45 ) , ( 48 ) , and ( 52 ) , and eliminate the molecular constants by means of the expressions found in the preceding section for the corresponding values of , we get the following results:\mdash ; , ( rigid elastic spheres ) , ( centres of force ) , ( attracting spheres ) , where in the last case is the constant in SUTHERLAND'S law of viscosity .
All these formulae agree in showing that is a numerical multiple of , the factor enerally being a function of the temperature , though with the first two hypotheses above , the factor is a constant .
When , in the case of the second hypothesis , we take ( as MAXWELL did , the force bein repulsive ) , the formula becomes ( MAXWF , LL'S fifth-power law ) , using the values already given for and .
The extension to general of is interesting , if only for he unobvious character of the factor The best value of the numerical factor hitherto obtained , on the hypothesis that the molecules are elastic spheres , is due to JEANS ( see his treatise , p. 273 ) .
After allowing for persi tence of velocities , he deduces that is its approximate value ; this is in very fair agreement with 66 , the result of the present theory .
The expression obtained in Part I. for the coefficient of diffusion between two gases is Since where is the total pressure , and since and do not occur elsewhere in the expression , it follows that , according to the present theory , the coefficient of diffusion is independent of the relative proportions of the gases in the mixture .
On this point STEFAN and MAXWELL were at issue with MEYER , theory predicted a large change in the coefficient of diffusion as the proportions of the gases were varied .
Several experiments have recently been made at Halle to test the rival theories .
The pairs of gases taken were , O-N , , A-He , .
The ratio of the omponents was varied from 1 : 3 to 3 : 1 ( roughly ) , and the results showed systematic differences in the values of which reached 8 per cent. in extreme cases .
Though part of this variation may be due to experimental errors , it is undoubtedly the case that appreciable variations of exist , or , at any rate , variations in the values of derived from the accepted theory of the experiments .
This theory is of rather an elaborate nature , and takes no account of the boundary conditions ; any attempt at a revision of the theory of diffusion should include an examination of the theory of the experiments by which the diffusion is measured ; and it is by no means impossible that faults in the accepted theory of the experiment may account for the small variations of 5 per cent. or so in the determinations of .
At the same time it must be remembered that the value of here arrived at theoretically is based on the assumption that the square of the velocity of diffusion , together with small deviations from MAXWHiLL'S law of distribution , are negligible .
If these had been taken account of ( and it is easy to do so ) part or the whole of the outstanding discrepancy would probably be explained .
As the variations are so small , however , I have not troubled to carry out these calculations .
The experiments emphatically disprove MEYER'S theory , which predicts changes of 20 per cent. or more in , and there no doubt that the general principles of the theory as laid down by STEFAN and MAXWELL are much nearer the truth than those advocated by MEYER .
A modification of MEYER'S theory by GROSS , which reduced the amount of the variations predicted by MEYER , has also been shown to be incorrect , since the actual variations of , though similar in amount to the theoretical values deduced by GROSS , are in the opposite direction .
* See his ' Kinetic ' Chapter VIII .
R. SCIINIDT , ' ffille Diss 1904 , and ' Ann. .
Phys 14 , 1904 , p. 801 ; DEUTSC 'Halle Diss 1907 ; JACXXANN , ' Halle Diss 1906 ; and LONIUS , ' Halle Diss 1909 .
All these results are summarized by LONIUS , ' Ann. .
Phys 29 , 1909 , p. 664 .
G. GROSS , ' WIED .
Ann 40 , p. 424 , 1890 CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
The special forms of the coefficient of diffusion , corresponding to the three molecular hypotheses considered in Part II .
, are as follows:\mdash ; spheres ) , atstprhaecrteinsg ) , where after substitution from equations ( 45 ) , ( 48 ) , and ( 52 ) we have put the formulae into a more convenient form as above ; and are , as before , the specific gravities relative to a standard gas whose density at pressure and temperature is is AVOGADRO'S constant , at the same pressure and temperature .
It may be noticed that MAXWELL , applying the methods of his fifth-power-law theory to the case of a gas whose molecules were elastic spheres , obtained an expression times as great as ( but in other respects identical with ) the first of the equations just given ; as he did not give any details , it is impossible to say how his eITor arose\mdash ; probably by a numerical slip .
The following equations simply express the law of variation of with temperature , as shown by the above three equations:\mdash ; ( rigid elastic spheres ) , ( point-centres of force ) , ( attracting spheres ) .
So far as I am aware , the variation of the coefficient of diffusion with temperature has neyer been properly experimentally ; the values of are generally found only at one temperature , two at most , and this is insufficient to decide between the second and third of the laws just given .
From the analogous behaviour of viscosity , as affected by temperature , however , the third law is probably most nearly true , and the values of have been worked out by HERLAND on this hypothesis .
In view of the importance of the constant it is that further experiments be made on the variation of the coefficient of with temperature .
* Nature , ' vol. viii .
; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. ii .
, p. 343 .
COIlstant for diffusion , is different mtlltp le of The present theory shows that , tho ture the mutual potential of two molecules in contact from that in the case of , the coIlstant or viscosity .
This fact was not indicated in ) ' lstigation ; Phil Mag ' ) ' .
As in the case of the coefficient of visc .
sity , we proceed to give the values of the molecular radii ( according to the two theorles of elastic spherical molecules , with and without attraction ) calculated from the coefficient of diffusion .
From the latter we get , the sum of the radii of molecules of each kind considered .
By taking three pairs of the same three gases , like O-H , N-H , , we can derive the actual values in each case , which may then be compared with the values obtained from the coefficient of viscosity .
I have thought it preferable , however , to compare the values of obtained from diffusion with the sums of the values obtained from viscosity ( on the corresponding molecular hypothesis ) .
The values of the coefficient of diffusion which units , temperature are taken from the Smithsonian tables ( 1910 edition ) ; they are uncertain ( partly for reasons already discussed , partly for other reasons ) to within about 5 per cent. ; different authorities give values differin by from 5 per cent. to 10 per cent. ; I have taken the mean , where two values are given in the table cited .
The constants are taken from a table given by SUTHERLAND* ; as they depend only on two values of , and as occurs in such a form as to be largely affected by experimental errors , these values are not well determined , though they are probably the best available .
In several cases I have not been able to find the value of C. rgddddbbbon d Considering the possibility of occasional exceptionally large errors due to the 'Phil .
Mag 1895 , 40 , p. 421 ; 1894 , 38 , p. 1 .
R. SCHnIDT , 'Ann . .
Phys 14 , 1904 , p. 801 .
CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL MOLECULES .
number of experimental data entering into each of the above determinations of molecular radii , the agreement shown is very good .
It is notably better on the hypothesis that the molecules attract one another than on the ordinary elastic sphere theory ( the large discrepancy in the case of is probably due to value of , which is larger than the value of for either gas , and this is somewhat improbable ) .
In the case of the latter theory the value of determined directly from diffusion is in almost every case less than that obtained from separate observations of viscosity ; there is a slight tendency for the same to show itself with the values deduced from the other theory .
This is probably to be attributed to the artificial nature of our hypotheses ; the effective distance of reversal of motion between two different molecules may not really be half the sum of the ctive distances for two pairs of like molecules , chough the sphere hypotheses assume this .
The third hypothesis we have considered does not do so ; but a comparison of diffusion and viscosity on this hypothesis would only give us the relation between the force constants between the molecules of one kind and different molecules , while the interesting question is the one we have just tested , , how nearly alike will a molecule towards another of the same kind , and towards one of a different kind .
The following may be of intel.est , how the values of obtained from VAN DER WAALS ' law agree with those obtained from viscosity ( on the attracting sphere theory ) Gas .
attracting shcretheory ) Hydrogen . . . . . . . .
Nitrogen . . . . .
Air . . . . . . . . .
Carbon dioxi . . . . .
1 70 Helium . . . . . . . .
Argon . . . . . . . . .
Krypton . . . . . . . .
1 56 Xenon . . . . . . . .
22 .
The Variation of the Vis ( of erith This question was deferred till after the similar questions regarding the viscosity of simple gases , and diffusion , had been discussed .
The obtained for * The values of for the first four are from values of tion ) given by Theory Gases , from the ) criments of } ROSE INNES ; bm the value of been taken as 2 illstcad of ils IIS ( I ' The values of for the last four from by , 'Phil p. 795 .
VOL. CCXI.\mdash ; A. 3 was where We have already seen that , on the sphere .
hypothesis , and the point centre of force hypothesis , where in the former case , and varies with in the latter case .
Hence so that , and all vary with the temperature in the same way ( we are supposing that the value of is the same for both kinds of molecules ) .
Moreover , we have seen in Part II .
that .
is independent of the temperature in these hypotheses .
Hence the numerator of the above fraction is independent of , while the denominator varies as .
In other words , the coefficient of viscosity of the mixed gas behaves in exactly the same way as that of the component gases , as the temperature vari The case is rather different on the attracting sphere hypothesis ; remembering the expressions already found for and and it may easily be seen that where for any given mixture are independent of the temperature , Over a limited range of it is possible to find a constant such that is extremely small , so write showing that.according to the attracting-sphere theory SUTHERLAND'S formula holds CONSTITUTED OF SPHERICALLY SYMMETRICAL IOLECULES .
for mixtures as well as for simple gases\mdash ; indeed , the formula has been more often tested for air than for any simple gas .
and others have shown that experimental results fully bear out this conclusion .
' Ann. .
Phys 30 , p. 393 , 1909 ; ZLER ( ' Verh .
Deutsch .
Phys. Ges 8 , 12 , p. 122 , 1906 ) .
THIESEN ( ' Verh .
Deutsch .
Phys. Ges 8 , 12 , p. 236 , 1906 ) that formula his own law ( see S18 of this paper ) are incompatible , although TANZLER'S experiments demonstrate the 01ltrary . .
Later investigation shows that the neglect of the terms of higher degree than the third , in the expression for the function ( p. 441 ) , is not easily justifiable by rigorous analysis .
The omitted terms have been considered by ENSKOG Phys. Zeitschrift , ; his work suffices to show that the formulae in this paper are correct except as regards a factor which in general is a function of the temperature ( only ) , and in particular , is a numerical constant .
The latter cases clude the case of elastic spherical moecues ( as pointed out by ENSKOG ) , and also of point centres of force varying inversely as the power of the distance .
Thus Lord RAYLEIGH'S theorem ( p. 474 ) can be rigorously established .
I have endeavoured to form a numerical estimate of the correction factors to be applied to the but the analytical difficulties involved thus far proved molmtable .
The expressions obtained do not converge rapidly , and the calculations ars very laborious ; ) the problem is now perfcctly definite , and improved analysis may remove the difficulties .
The present theory must therefore be regarded as approximnte only .
In coIljunction n-ith work , however , it provides rigorous proofs of the relations connecting viscosity and condnctivity with the pressure and molecular diameter and mass , and in special also with temperaturc ; the tions themselves are well known in the case of simple gases , but not in of compound gases .
The ) erical constants are not rigorously determined , and are snbjcct to correction ; but the ngreement 1 } ith expcriment seems to show that the oximation is a good one .
Lastly , it should be remarked that the theory of diffusion is unaffected by the terms omitted , so that the above statements do not apply to it .

