II .
" Note on the Separation of the Isomeric Amylic Alcohols formed by Fermentation .
' By ERNEST T. CHAPMAN and MILES H. SMITI- .
Communicated by Prof. E. W. BRAYLEY .
Received January 14 , 1869 .
At present we are acquainted with two amylic alcohols formed by fermentation .
They were discovered by Pasteur , who observed that different specimens of amylic alcohol caused a ray of polarized light to rotate to different degrees .
He succeeded in devising a separation of these alcohols , which consisted in converting them into sulphamylates of barium and recrystallizing these salts .
The one alcohol is without action on polarized light , and the other rotates it .
This method of separation is beset with great practical difficulties , and has , we believe , only once been repeated , viz. by Mr. Peddler .
He gives no detailed account of the separation , but gives some of the leading properties of the alcohols .
He found that the rotating alcohol caused a ray of polarized light to rotate 17 ?
with a column of 500 millims. of liquid .
The following are some examples of the rotations effected by eleven different samples of amylic alcohol in a column of 385 millims. For comparison with Pedler 's number , the observed numbers have been reduced in the second column to observations on 500 millims.:Designation of Rotation observed on Reduced to observations specimen .
column of 585 millims. on 500 millims. 00 1 .
3-5 4-55 2 .
3-7 4-81 3 .
4 5-2 4 .
3.7 4-81 5 .
4.7 6.11 6 .
4 5-2 7 .
3.5 4-55 8 .
2-7 3.51 9 .
5 6-5 10 .
4 5-2 11 .
3-8 4-94 Pedler 's rotating alcohol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
17'0 If Pedler 's number be absolutely correct , it follows that these specimens of amylic alcohol cotntained from 15*9 per cent. as a minimum , to 38 2 as a maximum of the rotating alcohol .
The boiling-points of the whole of the samples lay between 131 ?
-5 and 133 ? .
We have effected the separation of these alcohols more simply .
If soda , potash , chloride of calcium , or , apparently , any salt easily soluble in amylic alcohol be dissolved in that alcohol at the boiling-point , and the saturated solution be distilled , the non-rotating alcohol will be to a great extent retained and the rotating alcohol distils off .
The substance which appears to lend itself most conveniently to this operation is caustic soda .
Amylie alcohol is boiled with excess of caustic soda ; when saturated , 308 Mr. tHuggins on the Heat of the Stars .
the hot solution is decanted into a flaskl and distilled from an oil-bath , the temperature of which may be allowed to rise to 200 ? .
The alcohol distils off at first readily , after a while with greater difficulty ; finally the contents of the distilling flask solidify , and it becornes extremely difficult to drive over any more amylic alcohol .
On now adding water to the contents of the flask and again distilling , amylic alcohol comes over of about half the rotating power of the alcohol employed .
If the power of rotation be very small , the reduction is considerably greater ; thus , operating on an alcohol rotating 1 ?
'3 on the 385 millims. , by one operation we have reduced it to 0'3 .
By a sufficient number of repetitions of the process , it is possible.to effect a separation of the alcohols , and very easy to obtain considerable quantities of the non-rotating alcohol quite pure .
No valerianic acid is formed ; and the soda-solution remaining in the flask after the operation is completed is barely coloured .
The separation of the alcohols may also be effected by dissolving metallic sodium in amylic alcohol , and distilling , &amp;c. , as above described , the resulting solution of amylate of soda in amylic alcohol .
The process appears to present no point of advantage over that with caustic soda .
We shall shortly publish a detailed account of differences in structure of these alcohols , together with a description of some of their principal derivatives .

