370 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Tarbuck ( Edward L. ) Handbook of House Property .
Second Edition 8vo .
London 1880 .
The Publishers ' Williams ( Greville ) , F.R.S. On the Antiseptic Alkaloids contained in Creosote Oils .
8vo .
London 1883 .
The Action of some Heated Substances on the Organic Sulphides in Coal Gras .
8vo .
London 1883 ' The Author .
" Observations on the Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , on those of the Bile of Vertebrates , and on some unusual Urine Pigments , \amp ; c. " By Charles A. MacMunn , B.A. , M.D. Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received March 8 .
Read April 5 , 1883 .
' I. Bile op Iwertebuata .
The liver of Invertebrates is generally considered by biologists to be nothing more than a pancreas in function , but the observations !
which I have made seem to me to indicate that it discharges other functions in addition to the preparation of a digestive ferment .
The colouring-matters found in the bile of Vertebrates do not occur in that of Invertebrates , with one exception , and that is , haemochromogen in Astacus jluviatilis and in Pulmoniferous Mollusca , for I have shown in a former paper* that haemochromogen is present in mammalian bile .
The only observations on the colouring-matters of Invertebrate bile with which I am acquainted are those of Sorby , + and some casual observations of Krukenberg , J but neither of these observers makes any mention of the facts to which I have to call attention .
Hoppe-SeylerS failed to detect bile pigments and bile acids in Invertebrate bile .
With the exception of these three observers , so far as I know , no systematic examination has been made of the bile and extracts of the liver or enteric appendages of Invertebrates .
The animals examined by me were selected from the three sub-kingdoms Mollusca , Arthropoda , and Echinodermata .
Among Vermes I also examined Lumbricus , Hirudo , and Aphrodite , with a negative result as regards enterochlorophyll ( Lumbricus contains lutein in the wall of the intestine ) .
The most striking fact which presents itself in such examinations as I have to record is the wide distribution of one colouring-matter , which is beyond doubt a chlorophyll pigment , in the bile of Mollusca and some Arthropoda , and in the appendages of the * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1880 , vol. 31 , p. 206 .
t " On the Evolution of Haemoglobin , " " Quart .
Journ. Mic .
Sci. , " vol. xvi , pp. 77-85 .
I " Vergleichend-physiologische Studien an den Kiisten der Adria , " 1880 .
S " Physiologische Chemie , " 1877\#151 ; 1881 .
Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of fyc .
371 Intestine of Echinodermata , e.g. , in the radial or pyloric cceca of starfishes .
As this colouring-matter is always found in the appendages of the enteron , I propose the name Enter och for it .
Zoochlorophyll would he a shorter and more euphonious name , hut as chlorophyll has been found in the integument of several Invertebrates , the same name Would apply to the latter , hence the former is more suitable .
; I shall take the animals seriatim , and proceed to describe the Results of my examination , prefacing the observations with this remark\#151 ; that I have relied on the spectroscopic and chemical proofs 0f the presence of chlorophyll .
It is useless to expect that the chlorophyll in the state in which it occurs should be capable of developing soxygen in the presence of sunlight in the livers of Mollusca or in the pyloric coeca of starfishes , \amp ; c. , so that one is deprived of the aid of the test which is mainly relied upon by recent observers , such as Professor Lankester* and Mr. P. Geddes ; f hut fortunately the jamount of material obtainable allows one to compare the spectra of enterochlorophyll , in different solutions , with those of chlorophyll obtained from leaves , and to study their respective spectra when the colouring-matters are treated by certain reagents .
When this is done , the conclusion forces itself on one 's attention that the enterochlorophyll , obtained from the sources already mentioned , is the same -as that which occurs in plants \ for when two colouring-matters have the iSame spectrum when dissolved in the same medium , and when their respective spectra are altered in the same manner by the same reagent , then we may conclude , according to " Vogel and Kundt , that the two icolouring-matters are identical .
The spectrum of chlorophyll , or rather of the mixture of colouring-matters which compose it , namely , blue chlorophyll , yellow chlorophyll , and chlorofucine is so peculiar \#163 ; that its presence is easily detected , and its decomposition , or change , by acids gives rise to no less characteristic spectra .
I have not determined how much , relatively to each other , of each of these ingredients is present in individual cases , but the differences which do occur are no doubt due to the fact that sometimes one , sometimes the other , is present in greater or less amount , and that other pigments , such as lutein or a xanthophyll , may be present . !
Before describing the colouring-matters obtainable from the bile or liver of Invertebrates , I * " On the Chlorophyll Corpuscles and Amyloid Deposits of Spongilla and \#166 ; Hydra , " " Quart .
Joum .
Mic .
Sci. , " vol. xxii , p. 229 .
t " Proc. Roy .
Soc. Edin .
, " and " Nature , " January 26,1882 .
J See Dr. Sorby 's paper on " Comparative Vegetable Chromatology , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1873 , vol. 21 , pp. 442-483 , and his other papers , a list of some of which is given in last edition ( 2nd English ) of Sachs ' " Botany .
" S In those cases in which the band in red is nearer the violet than usual , it is probably due to the chlorophyll being present in the fluid in a more or less acid state .
Cf .
Russell and Lapraik , " A Spectroscopic Study of Chlorophyll , " " Journ. Chem. Soc. , " 1882 , vol. 41 , p. 334 .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
shall here give the position in wave-lengths of the bands of an alcohol ether extract of leaves of Primula alone , and treated with nitric acid , j have chosen the leaves of that plant since various slugs and snails , whose \gt ; bile spectra will be referred to further on , feed on them .
An alcohol ether extract gave four bands .
I did not measure carefully the band of the second half of the spectrum , so shall only refer to the bands o the first half : \#166 ; \#151 ; 1st Band ... ... ... X674\#151 ; 643 2nd " ... . .
A622 *5\#151 ; 602 3rd " ... ... ... .
X590 -6\#151 ; 567 4th " ____ ... .
X548\#151 ; 530 ?
This solution was filtered , evaporated at a gentle heat , and the residue extracted with rectified spirit and filtered .
The solution was a fine green colour and gave a series of five bands as follows:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... ... X684\#151 ; 634 2nd " .
... ... .
X618\#151 ; 598 3rd , , ... ... ... X586-\#151 ; 570 4th " ... ... ... .
X546-5\#151 ; 534 5th " ... ... ... X484\#151 ; 465 When this was treated with a couple of drops of nitric acid , the green colour became yellowish , and the bands gave the following readings:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... . .
X661\#151 ; 646 2nd , , ... ... X608\#151 ; 592 3rd " ... ... . .
X576\#151 ; 561 Chart , spectrum 1 .
4th " ... ... X539\#151 ; 521 I 5th " ... ... . .
X502\#151 ; 484 ?
J In the case of enterochlorophyll the treatment with nitric acid generally makes the solution slightly greenish , although previously it may have been yellow .
I believe this is due to the fact that in the livers of Mollnsca , \amp ; c. , the pigment is present in a more or less reduced condition , probaby due to the action of a ferment on the chlorophyll , or to the fact that it is sometimes present in the form of a radical or chromogen.* Mollusca .
Colouring-matters of Liver of Osircea E dulls.-\#151 ; The alcoholic extract of the liver of Ostrcea is a greenish-yellow colour by daylight , and more orange-yellow by gaslight , and examined in a deep layer gives a band in red , which is placed over a shading .
This peculiarity of a * Perhaps built up synthetically.by the animal itself .
C0lonring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , fyc .
373 lark band superimposed on a shading is noticeable when a crushed flydra viridis is examined with the microspectroscope , and the am appearance was noticed in the spectrum of a leaf of Anacharis yith which the Hydra was associated .
In a thin layer of the alcohol xtract of the liver of Ostrcea another band became detached , covering in1 The first spectrum referred to is mapped in sp. 2 .
The band in |-ed extended from \#151 ; X696\#151 ; 684 ; snd the second from\#151 ; X509\#151 ; 484 .
| When treated with nitric acid the solution became faintly greenish ind then a doubling of the band in red was seen to have taken place , he first band faded very quickly leaving the second , but before it disappeared the following readings were obtained :\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... . .
X690\#151 ; 674 2nd " ... ... ... X661\#151 ; 651 I Finally , the series of bands shown in sp. 3 , appeared which measured as follows:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... X661\#151 ; 646 or 643 2nd , , ... ... . .
X66S\#151 ; 592 3rd " ... ... . .
X576\#151 ; 561 4th " ... ..___ X539\#151 ; 518 5th " ... ... ... X505\#151 ; 484 These measurements show beyond all doubt that the liver of Ostrcea contains a colouring-matter which when treated in alcoholic solution with nitric acid gives the same spectrum as a similar solution of leaf green when treated with that reagent ; and therefore the liver of Ostrcea contains chlorophyll .
A microscopic examination showed that this colouring-matter as it occurred in the liver was more of an orange-yellow colour than it is generally seen in molluscan livers , excepting Mytilus and other Lamellibranchiate Mollusea , which have a marine habitat ; hut it is not due to the presence of parasitic algce .
Liver of Mytilus edulis.\#151 ; The liver of this Mollusc contains the same pigment .
In the yellow filtered extract two bands were plainly discernible in a deep layer , while in a shallower depth a third became detached at F:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... ... .
X670\#151 ; 651 2nd " ... ... ... X616\#151 ; 593 5 The latter was placed just before D. With nitric acid the extract | became greenish and a series of bands appeared as follows:\#151 ; Dr. C. A. MacMunn , 1st Band ... ... .
X661\#151 ; 646 2nd " ... ... . .
X608\#151 ; 589 3rd " -------- X576\#151 ; 561 or 558 4th " ... ... . .
X539\#151 ; 521 5th , , ... ... ... X505\#151 ; 484 The colouring-matters were seen by the microscope to be deposited in brown granules , and no parasitic algae could be detected .
In the yellow ether extract of the liver no band in red could be detected , but two feeble bands , one at F , the other between F and G , were visible , probably due to the- presence of a lutein pigment .
Chloroform extracted no colouring-matter .
Liver of Gardium edute*\#151 ; The yellow alcoholic filtrate of the liver gave a band in red , and a band between green and blue at F. That in red extended from X678\#151 ; 656 , but was difficult to read .
With nitric acid the liquid became greenish and gave the same series ofi bands as before .
Liver of Anodonta cy.gnea.\#151 ; When extracted with rectified spirit and filtered a deep yellow solution formed , which showed three bands | as follows:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... X684\#151 ; 663,5'| and " ________ X620\#151 ; 600 \gt ; Sp. 4 .
3rd " X555\#151 ; 539 J Treated with nitrie acid this solution became greenish and fire bands now appeared , which were difficult to read , but the first extended from X678\#151 ; 656 , and the fifth probably from X505 to 484 ( ?
) In the microspectroscope the bands appeared as shown in sp. 5 .
In another specimen of Anodonta an orange-coloured mass was found in the intestine , which gave two bands like those of reduced haematin , and a third close before F , the latter extending from X5Q5\#151 ; 486 .
Liver of JJnio.\#151 ; The appearances coincided with those just given for Anodonta .
All the extracts of the livers of the above Lamellibranehiates were treated with ammonium sulphide with a negative result , and therefore did not contain hsemochromogen .
The colouring-matter of the liver of Anodonta was partially soluble in ether with a yellow colour , and this solution showed practically the same speetrum as the alcohol extract .
Bile and Liver of Gephalopod Moll Octopus.-\#151 ; The only cepha-lopod which I had an opportunity of examining was Octopus vulgaris .
The yellow-brown liver became darker on exposure to air , due to the # Fasting for three days .
Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , fyc .
37 5 oxidation of a chromogen .
An alcoholic ( rect .
spirit ) extract of a yellow colour showed four bands and a doubtful fifth ; which read\#151 ; 1st Band 2nd " 3rd " 4th , , X678\#151 ; 661 or 681\#151 ; 658 '5 X616\#151 ; 600 X584 *5\#151 ; 570 ?
X552\#151 ; 539 ( Fifth uncertain .
) Sp. 6 .
With nitric acid it became greenish and gave the usual series of But some slight differences were observable in the behaviour of the colouring matters of this liver towards solvents from those already-described .
This I think may be due to the greater abundance of the colouring-matters present* Thus an ether solution gave two bands in red , and was a greenish-yellow colour .
The first band extended from X696\#151 ; -690 , the second from X674\#151 ; 661 .
The alcoholic solution did not seem to be fluorescent .
Chloroform extracted some colouring-matter of a faint yellow colour , giving bands like those of the ether solution , that in red extending from X684\#151 ; 661 .
And a bisulphide of carbon solution showed a band in red and one at the blue end of the green .
In addition to the two hands mentioned above , the ether solution gave three others ( as shown in sp. 7 ) , which measured as follows:\#151 ; 3rd Band ... .___ 1616\#151 ; 596 4th " ... ... . .
- X570\#151 ; 558 ( about ) 5 th , , ... ... . .
\539\#151 ; 530 and a feeble shading from X494\#151 ; 474 .
When an alcoholic solution was treated with ammonia the spectrum remained unchanged , and caustic soda was similar in its action .
Sodium amalgam also failed to produce a change .
Sulphide of ammonium developed no bands , and therefore haematin was absent .
I may here remark that no lutein nor tetronerythrin was found in the liver , nor was any found in the integument or elsewhere , an observation which is important when one compares these results with those obtained in examining the " bile " of Crustaceans and Echino-derms.f Liver of Buccinum undatum.\#151 ; The filtrate after digesting the crushed liver in rectified spirit was a golden-yellow colour , J and its spectrum was composed of four bands in a deep layer , sp. 8 ; * And the appearances suggest that in the liver of Octopus this pigment exists in a more highly oxidised state than in other livers , or , perhaps , as ucid enteroehloro-phyll .
+ I have described the peculiarities of the colouring-matter of the integument of Octopus in a paper communicated to the Birmingham Philosophical Society .
X This had a red fluorescence .
Dr. C. A. MacMuim .
that in red extended from X674\#151 ; 653'5 .
Treated with nitric acid it became greenish and the usual series of five bands could be detected The partially decomposed liver ( which had broken down into a i greenish-white pulp ) in another specimen gave four bands when a strong light was concentrated on its surface , viz. , a band in red covering C , another close before D , one just before E , and the fourth between b and F. No haematin could be detected .
Liver of Fusus antiquus.\#151 ; The filtered golden-yellow rectified spirit extract showed in a deep layer four bands , and in a thinner a fifth at F. These closely agreed with those seen in the similar extract of liver of Buccinum ; that in red extended from X676\#151 ; 660 , the next X620\#151 ; 600 , and the third perhaps from X-583\#151 ; 567 .
With nitric acid the solution became greenish and the five bands already referred to were seen distinctly .
No other pigments were detected .
With magnesium and acetic acid a negative result was obtained .
Liver of Purpura lapillus .
\#151 ; The golden-yellow rectified spirit extract of the liver gave three bands in a deep layer coincident with the bands of the above alcohol extracts , thus that in red extended from \678\#151 ; 656 .
And the colour changed to greenish with nitric acid , the * usual series of five bands becoming developed at the same time .
Owing to the presence of the purpurogenous glands* in this mollusc , I hoped to find some peculiarity in the pigments of its liver , but it contained apparently only enterochlorophyll .
Liver of Litorina litorea.\#151 ; -The absolute alcohol filtrate of the liver j was a yellow colour , and gave three bands in a deep layer and a fourth in a shallow depth , which are the same bands seen in other ] cases .
The following measurements apply to the spectrum of the above-mentioned solution:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... . .
X678\#151 ; 661 2nd " ... ... .
X620\#151 ; 600 3rd " ... ... ... X552\#151 ; 539 4th " .
----- X516\#151 ; 480 P On treatment with nitric acid the usual series of five bands could be detected with ease .
Liver of Helix aspersa.\#151 ; When the liver and bile of any Pulmonate Mollusc is examined , except that of Planorbis\#151 ; so far at least as I know\#151 ; a striking difference between them and those of other Mollusca is apparent , since now for the first time reduced haematin is met with both in the bile and in the alcohol extract of the liver , accompanied in most , and probably in all cases , by enterochlorophyll .
Dr. * Schunck , " Notes on the Purple of the Ancients , " " Joum .
Chem. Soc. , " vol. xxxv , p. 589 ( 1879 ) and vol. xxxvii , p. 613 ( 1880 ) .
Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , fyc .
377 Sorby* was the first who found reduced haematin in the bile of Helix \aspersa , as well as in that of Limncea , Zonites , Limax and Cyc.lostoma , he was doubtful as to it3 occurrence in , Pupa , and Clausilia .
He also found it in Planorbis corneus in the liver .
I have found it in all Pulmonate molluscan bile which I examined except that of Planorbis , iand as I shall have to show further on in the bile of the crayfish .
In j fact its presence seems to be dependent on aerial respiration .
Dr. 1 gorby although he was led to believe that at least two coloured bodies are present , did not notice the chlorophyll pigment which accompanies in most , if not in all cases , the hsemochroraogen .
The spectrum of heemochromogen is so peculiar that it is not easily mistaken for anything else , especially after some practice in this line of research .
It is interesting that molluscan bile should so closely resemble that of Vertebrates in this particular .
On dissecting fasting specimens of Helix aspersa the intestine in the region of the liver is always distended with reddish-brown bile , which invariably gives the reduced haematin bands with ammonium sulphide ; even before its addition\#151 ; if the bile be examined sufficiently quickly\#151 ; they can also be seen .
This bile does not give a play of colours with nitric acid , nor does it reduce a solution of cupric hydrate , even after !
previous treatment ( boiling ) with acetic acid ; it also failed to give Pettenkofer 's reaction with sugar and sulphuric acid .
In some cases the chlorophyll band in the red can also be detected in the bile itself , but then its position is modified by the nature of the solvent , for instance , in one case , it extended from \690\#151 ; 666 .
On treating such bile with an aqueous solution of H2S , this band persists and two new ones come into viewf if not previously visible , the first from \568'5 555 , and the second from X539\#151 ; 523 .
Caustic soda narrows these bands , so also does ammonia .
An acid , such as acetic , causes their disappearance , while the band in red still persists .
Before treatment with ammonium sulphide , when the haematin bands are visible , they are nearer the red end of the spectrum ; thus in one instance the first band extended from \576\#151 ; 561 .
The bile contains a proteid coagulable by heat ; this is interesting when we compare it with haemo-| globin .
The bands of reduced haematin in the bile are not always in the same position , for instance , I found a specimen of Helix in February which had been fasting to my knowledge for more than a month .
The colour of its bile was almost that of O-haemoglobin , and without any treatment whatever it showed the bands:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... .~ .
\570\#151 ; 556 *5 2nd " ... ... . .
\539\#151 ; 526 * " On the Evolution of Haemoglobin , " Quart .
Journ. Mic .
Sci. , " vol. xvi , p. 77 .
t The bile at the same time becoming redder .
Of .
Sorby 's paper , loc. for an explanation of the fact that the position of the bands of haematin varies in the bile " itself without reagents , and after their addition respectively .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Then with ammonium , sulphide 1st Band .---- \568 '5\#151 ; 556 -5 2ndj " ... ... .
X537 *5\#151 ; 523 In the alcohol extract of the liver these bands were clearly discernible , and also that of enterochlorophyll .
The latter generally was found to extend from X678\#151 ; 661 , and therefore corresponds to the band of enterochlorophyll in other Mollusca , but the colouring-matter is present in smaller quantity than in those examined supra , and therefore it is most difficult to measure the bands produced by the action of nitric acid , but they are 1 believe the same as those already \gt ; described .
Some specimens of Helix aspersa kept fasting for six months still showed in their bile the reduced hsematin bands , and in one specimen the band in red was still present .
I have now specimens in my | laboratory which have been fasting nine months , and they appear as vigorous as ever , and a specimen recently examined still contained reduced htematin .
The drawing of the spectrum of the alcoholic | extract of the liver of Helix pomatia will represent that of Helix I aspersa .
Helix pomatia.\#151 ; The reddish-brown bile from the intestine close to I the liver showed the presence of reduced haematin with and without 1 Sulphide of ammonium , of which ( with sulphide ) the first extended from \567\#151 ; 555 , and the second from X536\#151 ; 523 .
The yellow alcohol ] extract of two livers showed only the bands of reduced heematin j with sulphide of ammonium , but in the extract of a third liver the I chlorophyll band in red was discernible ( see sp. 9 ) , extending from !
X678\#151 ; 661 .
But the last-named pigment is small in amount , as denoted by the action of nitric acid , which , although it caused the haamatin bands to disappear and left that in red , yet did not seem to cause the appearance of any others .
The chemical characters of this bile were the same as those in the case of Helix aspersa .
Helix citrina.\#151 ; The yellow alcohol extract of the liver showed the presence of chlorophyll , and resembled those already described in other particulars .
Arionater : Liver and Hile .
\#151 ; Like all the Pulmonate Mollusca already referred to , the specimens of Arion ater examined were kept fasting some days , until they ceased to discharge their intestinal contents , in order to avoid the source of error arising from the fact that the intestine ramifies through the liver , and hence an alcohol extract might contain intestinal chlorophyll from the food .
The bile is brownish-yellow , and gives generally , without any treatment , the spectrum of reduced hsematin , which is much more distinct with ammonium sulphide , the bands reading as follows:\#151 ; Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of , $c .
379 1st Band ... ... .
X.565 '5\#151 ; 556 *5 2nd " ... ... ... \537 '5\#151 ; 528 or 526* The alcohol extract of the liver showed the presence of reduced hsematin and enterochlorophyll , the bands of the former disappearing with nitric acid , and that of the latter remaining , being , however , brought slightly nearer the violet , as in all other cases .
In the bile of other specimens the band of enterochlorophyll could generally be seen , but always those of reduced hsematin .
Limaxflavus and other Slugs : Bile and Liver .
In the first specimen examined the bile contained reduced hsematin ; but the alcohol extract of the liver did not seem to contain much , if any , hsematin or enterochlorophyll , but in other cases it contained both colouring-matters .
In a specimen of Limax of a dark olive colour on dorsal surface , with the margin of the foot tinged with orange , the bile gave the band in red from \681\#151 ; 656 , and , on adding sulphide of ammonium , the bands of reduced hsematin , the first from \570\#151 ; 558 , the second X539\#151 ; 526 .
The alcohol extract of the liver also contained both pigments .
In a similar extract of another liver I found that in one part of the liver only enterochlorophyll , in another part only-reduced hsematin was present .
Nitric acid changed the colour of the extract to greenish , and two of the usual series of bands could be seen .
In another specimen of the same colour the greenish-yellow alcohol filtrate of the liver showed four bands , of which the first two belong to chlorophyll , the third to hsematin .
1st Band ... ... ... X678\#151 ; 656 2nd " X616\#151 ; 596 3rd " X564\#151 ; 555-5 4th , , ... ... ... X543 *5\#151 ; 535 This treated with nitric acid gave three of the usual series of bands .
( Sp. 10 shows the bile of Limax with ammonium sulphide .
) Other slugs were also examined with a similar result .
Liver of Planorbis.\#151 ; The specimens had been kept in clean water , free from vegetable matter , for a week previous to the examination .
The livers of five specimens were removed , and , after crushing , digested in rectified spirit ; the yellow filtrate gave a band in red from \678\#151 ; 658-5 ; and three others , of which that before D belongs to chlorophyll , while the other two were found to be due to traces of haemoglobin .
In a thin layer there-was a fourth band at F. In the united alcohol extracts of ten livers no reduced hsematin could be detected ; but that is no matter for surprise , since Planorbis contains * The very slight discrepancies in some of the measurements are no doubt due to the difficulty of determining the measurements of the edges of the bands exactly , and , of course , to the varying quantity of hsematin present .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
abundance of haemoglobin , and there .is no longer need for respiratory haemochromogen .
( It is a remarkable fact that the intestine is not nearly as wide in Planorbisas it is in Helix and Limax .
Is this because no intestinal respiration takes place in Planorbis P ) Arthropoda .
Among Arthropoda I have as yet only examined crustacean bile and liver extracts .
Bile of Homarus vulgaris.\#151 ; Only one specimen has been examined .
The brownish bile of neutral reaction , which got darker on exposure to air , gave a band in red , and an ill-defined band between D and E , placed in the position of that of Moseley 's " Actiniochrome."* The former extended from A681\#151 ; 658\5 .
The occurrence of the second band is interesting , as the same is seen on examining some of the undissolved pigments in the membrane lining the shell .
There was also in an aqueous solution of the bile a third band between green and blue from A507\#151 ; 484 ( sp. 11 ) .
AVhen an extract was made of the liver by means of rectified spirit , the last-mentioned band from A507\#151 ; 484 was well seen , and there was also a feeble one in red .
Sulphide of ammonium hardly affected the spectrum ; caustic soda caused the appearance of a band cover-ing D , while that at E seemed to be less distinct ; the former was ill-defined , but probably extended from A600\#151 ; 576 .
When treated with nitric acid the band at E became better marked , and read A505-484 .
Ammonia seemed to cause the disappearance of the same band j and that covering D\#151 ; which was also produced by caustic soda\#151 ; again appeared .
Magnesium and acetic acid did not affect the band at E , nor did peroxide of hydrogen .
Cancer joagurus : Liver and Bile.\#151 ; The yellow bile became orange after standing exposed to the air .
An aqueous solution gave a shading from A516\#151 ; 484 .
No other bands were visible .
An absolute alcohol solution of a yellow colour gave a faint band from A509\#151 ; 484 .
Treated with nitric acid it became greenish , and a shading from A509\#151 ; 484 was still visible .
Caustic potash did not remove the latter .
WEen the liver was allowed to stand twenty-four hours , and had become a deeper yellow than before , it yielded its colour more readily to absolute alcohol , and this solution gave a band from A500\#151 ; 480 .
A chloroformic solution was reddish-yellow , and in this two bands were seen , one from A509\#151 ; 488 , the second X474\#151 ; 459 , the latter fainter than the former ; on evaporation of the chloroform an orange-coloured residue was left , which contained oily matter , and could not be purified .
* " Quart .
Journ. Mic .
Sei .
, " 1873 , p. 143 .
Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , Sc. 581 An ether solution was pale yellow and showed two bands , the first from X498\#151 ; -480 , the second from X466\#151 ; 450 .
A bisulphide of carbon extract of an orange colour gave two bands , the first from X530\#151 ; 507 , the second from X496\#151 ; 476 ( ?
) Petroleum also extracted a little colouring-matter , giving a band from X505\#151 ; 484 .
Hence the principal colouring-matter present evidently belonged to the class of luteins , of which I believe there are more than one .
Carcinus mcenas : Liver and Bile.\#151 ; Several specimens of this Crustacean were examined .
The bile itself , in most cases , only gave an ill-defined band , between green and blue .
The presence of entero-chlorophyll was found to be exceptional , and that of lutein or a lutein pigment constant .
The colour of the liver in different specimens varies remarkably , thus in some it was yellowish-white , in others , orange , orange-yellow , \amp ; c. It became almost black on exposure to the air .
In all of the specimens alcohol , ether , chloroform , and bisulphide of carbon extracted the colouring-matter , giving bands in the blue end of the spectrum , which seemed to be due to lutein as already stated , and I believe a similar pigment occurs in the coloured membrane lining the shell , while in some cases tetronerythrin was also present .
In some alcohol solutions two enterochlorophyll bands were visible , the first from X670\#151 ; 651 , the second from X612\#151 ; 592 ; with a little nitric acid the colour became slightly greenish .
In most cases a band was visible in the same solution from X505\#151 ; 484 .
Ether solutions showed the presence of two well-marked bands , the first from X498\#151 ; 480 , the second X463\#151 ; 448 .
A bisulphide solution was orange-red , and gave two bands ; the first from X530\#151 ; 507 , the second from X496\#151 ; 476 .
Pagurus bernhardus.\#151 ; The brown-yellow bile of three specimens gave the band of enterochlorophyll in red , and a shading including b and E. The pale-yellow alcohol extract gave the same bands .
The solution was too dilute to give a satisfactory result with nitric acid .
( Sp. 12 .
) Astacus fluviatilis.\#151 ; While none of the above Crustaceans showed the slightest evidence of the presence of h83matin in their bile , or in the alcoholic extracts of their livers , the crayfish contains it in considerable amount .
So far as I know this has not been discovered before .
The brownish-yellow liquid which exudes from the liver gave a faint band between D and E\#171 ; and a dark one between b and E , measuring X515\#151 ; 488 , and on adding sulphide of ammonium two bands appeared which are those of reduced lias matin .
In the bile of some specimens examined the first reduced hasmatin band appeared without any treatment whatever ; both were strongly intensified by caustic soda , as was found to be the case in the Pulmonate Mollusca .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
It was difficult to get the reading of the second hsematin band , but the first extended from X568-5\#151 ; 559'5 ; * the band at F after dilution with water seemed to extend from A,509\#151 ; 484 .
On exposure to the air the hsematin bands faded away , but were again brought back : with sulphide of ammonium , more distinctly than before .
( Sp. 13 .
) A* alcohol extract of the liver showed only some shading at F , and no band could be seen in red , either before or after the addition of nitric acid .
Echinojdermata .
In this sub-kingdom I have as yet only examined starfishes and specimens of Echinus .
JJraster rubeus.\#151 ; The radial , pyloric , or arborescent coeca of starfishes are supposed , I believe , by some to function as a " liver , " while others suppose they are of respiratory significance .
According to the following observations they do function as the so-called liver of other invertebrate animals , i.e. , they-\#151 ; in addition to their probable use in preparing a digestive ferment\#151 ; serve as organs for the storing , and probably the actual production , of pigments for surface coloration .
This at least is the conclusion which spectroscopic study of their colouring-matters suggests .
Di different specimens pigments of a different character occur which seem to have a close connexion with those of the integument .
The alcohol extract of the radial coeca of one specimen ( the integument of which had a red colour , and which was found to be dne mainly to tetronerythrin with probably a small amount of a pigment giving the spectrum and having the negative insoluble characters of Moseley 's actiniochrome ) was after filtration a fine orange colour , and showed the peculiar absorptive property of tetronerythrin.f Another specimen had brown radial coeca interspersed with green , the alcohol extract was yellow and gave a band in red and one just before D ; the first extended from X666\#151 ; 639 , and therefore was slightly nearer the violet end of the spectrum than in the case of the enterochlorophyll of other invertebrate animals already referred to .
The whole of the violet end of the spectrum was shaded up to three-fourths the distance from D to E. The latter shading was cleared up by nitric acid which did not remove the other bands .
J In a shallow * The second ..'just before E ( see sp. 13 ) , for although it could not be measured by means of the chemical spectroscope it was well seen-in the microspectroscope .
t Hoppe-Seyler , " Handbuch Physiol , u. Pathol .
Chem. Analyse , " 4th ed. , p. 220 .
This pigment is present in Homarus , , Carcinus , and Astacus , as I have found it in the shells of all of them .
( Cf .
Merejkowski , quoted in " Nature , " Jan. 19 , 1882 .
) $ Probably owing to presence of tetronerythrin , the colour of which is destroyed by nitric acid .
Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , Sc. 383 depth of alcoholic solution a hand became detached at F , which on adding caustic soda was slightly narrowed , and read from X509\#151 ; 490 .
The ether solution gave similar bands , but in addition it appeared to contain a lutein pigment , as two bands could be seen in the blue and violet , the first from X498\#151 ; 480 , the second from X466\#151 ; 450 .
Of course in this and other cases the possibility of the presence of a xanthophyll must not be lost sight of , but in the present stage of the inquiry I believe these bands are due to lutein .
A chloroform solution showed the chlorophyll bands like the other solutions , and also two others , of which one extended from X509 488 , the other ^474__456 ( ?
) Another brown specimen of Uraster contained green cceca , and the alcoholic extract of these gave the chlorophyll bands ( see 14th sp. ) , four in number , of which the following are the measurements :\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... . . .
X674\#151 ; 643 Centre ... ... . .
2nd , , . . . .
*- .
X614\#151 ; 596 " ... ... . .
3rd , , ... ... .
X545\#151 ; \#151 ; 534 , , ... ... . . .
4th " ________ X516\#151 ; 494 " ... ... . .
This solution became greenish-blue with nitric acid spectrum of sp. 15 now was seen ; the following are the ments:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... ... X661\#151 ; 643 2nd " ... ... .
X608\#151 ; 590-5 3rd " ... ... . .
X580-561 4th " _____ ... X539\#151 ; 518 5th " - ... .
X505\#151 ; 484 Caustic soda changed the spectrum of an alcoholic solution in a remarkable manner , for while the band in red remained as before , that before D became replaced by two narrow bands .
They gave the following readings :\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... ... X668\#151 ; 646 2nd " ... ... .
X630\#151 ; 616 3rd ... ... ... . .
X552\#151 ; 536 4th " ... . .
X516\#151 ; 494 Only one of the feeble bands referred to above is accounted for , as the other faded away .
The solution assumed a yellow colour at the same time .
An alcoholic solution of orange-coloured cceca gave a band in red from X670\#151 ; 656 , and a similar solution of green-brown cceca gave the same band , the latter also formed an orange solution with chloroform which gave two bands , one from X507\#151 ; 486 , the other from X474\#151 ; 456 .
In both cases a considerable portion of the blue and the measureDr .
C. A. MacMunn .
end of the spectrum was absorbed , probably from the presence - J -t e tr onery t h r in .
The greenish-white ececa of another specimen gave the alcohol yellow colour , which showed a band from X678\#151 ; 651 ( which reading ' approaches nearer to that of the enterochlorophyll of Mollusca and Crustacea .
) When an alcoholic solution of green coeca was evaporated on the water bath , a sap-green residue was left , which was only partially soluble in chloroform , a dirty green-brown residue being left still undissolved .
The chloroform solution gave four bands:_ 1st Band .
... ... . .
X678\#151 ; 637 2nd " .
------- \614\#151 ; 596 3rd " .
... ... .
X546 5\#151 ; 530 4th " ... ... ... X514\#151 ; 494 Nascent hydrogen , generated by the action of tin and hydrochloric ' acid , and magnesium and acetic acid , failed to change this colouring- , matter , the spectrum produced being the same as that got by the action of nitric acid on alcoholic solutions .
* Asterias aurantiaca.\#151 ; The brownish cceca when extracted with alcohol yielded an orange-coloured solution which gave the following bands:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... .'. .
X668\#151 ; 653 *5 2nd " --------- X612\#151 ; 596 3rd " --- ... ... X545\#151 ; 534 ?
On adding nitric acid the usual five-banded spectrum of acid enterochlorophyll appeared .
The orange colour of this solution was no doubt due to the presence of tetronerythrin , to which the integu-ment seems to owe its colour .
Echinus esculentus.ir\#151 ; The brown colouring-matter adhering to the outside of the intestine and madreporic canal yielded its colouring-matter to alcohol , which became a yellow colour .
This showed the band in red and also that before D , and a third feeble one before E. In a specimen of Echinus which had greenish-white spines , the perivisceral cavity contained a large quantity of a brownish mass which when dissolved in alcohol formed a brownish-yellow solution , which presented a well-marked enterochlorophyll spectrum with the following measurements .\#151 ; 1st Band .
... ... X670\#151 ; 653 -5 2nd " --------- X612\#151 ; 596 3rd " -----"---- X545\#151 ; 534 4th " ... ... ... .
X496\#151 ; 4^3 ?
# And oxidising agents gave a similar negative result .
t 1 am not certain whether the urchin was Echinus esculentus or not .
The first specimen mentioned above had white spines , the second whitish-green spines ; they both belong to the same species , and are commonly known as " Sea-boxes .
" Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , fyc .
385 Nitric acid turned this extract greenish and the usual five-banded spectrum was seen .
The alcoholic solution fluoresced red .
There is reason to suppose that a similar colouring-matter exists on the outside of the shell , which can be exti'acted with chloroform .
There is also another icolouring-matter in the perivisceral fluid , which I have described in a paper read before the Birmingham Philosophical Society , and to which I have given the name " Echinochrome."* Summary and Hem ark , s.\#151 ; It is evident that the livers of Mollusca 'and Crustacea ?
, the pyloric cceca of starfishes , and intestinal appendages of Echinus , all contain in greater or less amount a pigment which is undoubtedly chlorophyll .
If this chlorophyll is derived directly from their food , it is strange that it should present similar characters in animals which feed on plants containing different colouring-matters , and that it should still be found in the bile of Helix after a six months ' fast .
A microscopic examination of a slug 's or snail 's liver shows the presence of a pigment of a yellowish colour , which within the liver-cells is generally deposited in granules ; but there are also bodies which remind one strongly of unicellular algse , the exact nature of which I have not yet determined .
Whether this chlorophyll is built up by the animal itself ; or whether it is derived from the food directly , still remains doubtful , but its universal distribution and the large amount present in different livers , teach that it plays an important part in the life of the animal containing it .
Although I have failed to change enterochlorophyll into other pigments by oxidising and reducing agents , one cannot help supposing that it does give origin , perhaps under the influence of a ferment , in the animal 's body ( liver , \amp ; c. ) , to some other colouring-matter .
This view being supported by the fact that one can extract from the liver colouring-matters which are present with the enterochlorophyll .
Moreover , these colouring-matters are closely related to those of the integument ; + for instance , in crabs one finds lutein in the bile and lutein in the hypoderm , tetronerythrin in the liver and in the hypoderm and shell , and the same pigment in the pyloric coeca of starfishes and in the integuments of the same starfishes ; again , haematin in the bile of slugs , and haematin derivatives in their integu- * In that paper several integumental and other colouring-matters are described , which I met with during an examination of the above and other animals .
See 11 Proc. Birm .
Philos. Soc. , " vol. iii , p. 351 , et seq. t In the integument of Crustacea ( exoskeleton and hypoderm ) I found tetronerythrin , lutein , and a pigment like Moseley 's tc actinioclirome in that of slugs a peculiar haematin derivative ; in that of starfishes tetronerythrin , a pigment like ac-tiniochrome , and a peculiar haematin derivative : these are described in the paper above referred to .
" Proc. Birin .
Philos. Soc. , " vol. iii , 1883 .
VOL. XXXV .
2 C Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
meant , and so on .
Hence the conclusion follows that the integu mental colouring-matter is prepared by the liver , or organ answerin to the liver .
The next question which suggests itself is this : froi what constituent in the liver are the pigments built up ?
I ai inclined to think that tetronerythrin is probably built up from 1 lutein pigment , as they are respectively soluble in the same medir and concentrated solutions of both , of sufficient depths , have the sam peculiar absorptive powers for the violet end of the spectrum Tetronerythrin occurs in abundance , both in the coloured hypoders and exoskeleton of Homarus and Cancer pagurus , and lutein i present abundantly in their livers ; in Carcinus mcenas lutein is presen in both situations .
Preyer* called attention long ago to the fact tha the larva of Ohironomus contains haemoglobin , and yet lives on pur el : vegetable substances ; so also does a sheep , a cow , or any other pureh herbivorous -Vertebrate , and yet haemoglobin is manufactured in largt quantity in their bodies.f It is likely that the radicals which furnislj the colouring-matters in the plant would be made use of " by the animal ) in the synthetical production of such bodies as haematin or haemo- ) globin for instance , and just as there is a close relationship betweei lutein and tetronerythrin , so there is certainly a close relationshij between lutein and haemoglobin .
For instance , in an egg the on\ pigment present is lutein , and therefore , if one colouring-matter ii derived from another , the haemoglobin of the chick must be in th\#171 ; first instance derived from the lutein of the yolk .
Again haemoglobin when extravasated into the ovary , gives rise to a pigment presenting a close relationship with that of egg-yolk , so much so that it has been called lutein .
Por the present I may call attention to the fact that in some cases the simultaneous presence of haemochromogen and chlorophyll has been demonstrated in the livers of Pulmonate Mollusca , and the amount of one seems to depend on that of the other , for instance , when there was much haematin present there was little chlorophyll , and vice versed ; this would seem to show that the possibility of the construction of haematin from chlorophyll suggests itself , and must not be forgotten .
Bilirubin is an undoubted haemoglobin derivative ( as I shall show further on ) , and according to Gautier ; } ; its formula approaches that of chlorophyll very closely ; the body chlorophyllan obtained in crystals from an alcoholic solution of chlorophyll gave numbers which led Gautier to the formula which is not far removed from that of bilirubin , C16H18N203 .
* " Die Blutkrystalle , " 1871 .
t And heematin in the bile of some of them , as shown in a former paper .
" Proc. Roy .
Soc. " 1880 , vol. 31 , p. 206 .
%"Comptes Rendus , " 1879 .
" Bot. Zeitg .
" 1880 .
See also Hoppe-Seyler , " Berich .
Deut .
Chem. Ges .
, " 1879 , and * Bot. Zeitg .
, " 1879 .
j Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , fyc .
387 The haemochromogen in the crayfish and in Pulmonate Mollusca is beyond doubt a respiratory pigment , and it seems to me that in ddition to the respiration in the branchiae of the former and in the iulmonary chamber of the latter , this pigment enables the animal to arry on intestinal respiration , as in certain crabs and fossilis .
tlemper* refers in a note to intestinal respiration in Mollusca , which rom the facts above narrated I believe to be carried on in the atestine of Pulmonates by means of haemochromogen . !
Dr. Sorbyf refers to the importance of the presence of haematin rom the standpoint of the evolutionist , so that this question need ot be here discussed .
In addition to the classes of chlorophyll containing animals men-loned by Geddes , J namely , those which vegetate by their own intrinsic ihlorophyll and those which vegetate " by proxy , " so to speak , or by leans of parasitic algae , a third class must now be added : those 'hich contain enterochlorophyll in their livers , or other appendages f the enteron .
Conclusions .
( 1 .
) The existence of enterochlorophyll in the liver , or other ppendages of the enteron in Invertebrata , is definitely established .
( 2 .
) This pigment occurs in greatest abundance in Mollusca , it ecurs less frequently in Arthropoda , and its presence among Vermes s not proved .
( 3 .
) The pyloric cceca of starfishes contain it in abundance , also he intestinal appendage of Echinus , which fact shows that the former auction like the so-called liver of other Invertebrates .
( 4 .
) The bile of the crayfish and that of Pulmonate Mollusca con-.hns haemochromogen ; in the latter it is generally accompanied by nterochlorophyll , and appears to be concerned more in aerial than quatic respiration .
( 5 .
) The so-called liver of Invertebrates is a pigment producing nd storing organ , as well as being concerned in the preparation of a igestive ferment .
I ( 6 .
) The presence of haemochromogen in the bile of Invertebrates is pparently determined by their mode of living ; for instance , it is not istributed according to purely morphological considerations .
| \7 .
) It is not impossible that the chlorophyll referred to may be ?
nthetically formed in the animal 's body , but any conclusion of this ind is premature at present ; although all the facts observed tend to ipport this view .
" Animals and their Conditions of Existence , " " Intemat .
Sci. Series , " vol. xxxi , ^71- Cf .
also Darwin 's " Origin of Species .
" t " Evolution of Hsemoglobin , " loc. cit. + Loc .
cit. 2 c 2 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
II .
A few Observations on Vertebrate Bile Pigments .
In spite of the labours of physiological chemists some erroneous ides still prevail as to the colouring-matters of the bile and their spectrr For instance , one sometimes sees bilirubin described as a gree pigment !
And in a recently published medical book the author make the strange statement that human bile owes its colour to biliverdin Again , the statement is frequently met with that the bile colouring matters have no absorption spectra .
So far is this from being tfe case , that the spectroscope is capable of detecting the smalles quantity of the biliary pigments in pathological liquids ; and I ha\ repeatedly been able to detect bilirubin and biliverdin in pus , urin and other liquids , by its help .
1 In former papers* I endeavoured to show how the urinary coloui ing-matters can be prepared artificially from those of the bile an from hsematin ; and I demonstrated the presence of a colouring matter indistinguishable from urobilin in mammalian bile .
But , lik others , I failed to prepare either bilirubin or biliverdin from hsemt glnlr in or its decomposition products , although the presence of hretm chromogen could be detected in human and sheep bile .
I have sutci been helped in the matter by an experiment which took place unde pathological conditions , and which proves beyond doubt that tfc transformation may yet be accomplished out of the body .
I have also to call attention to the fact that in sheep and ox bile th principal colouring-matter is not biliverdin ; for although I ha\ already shown that the body giving the peculiar series of bands f probably , in fact undoubtedly , a partly hsematin derivative , I had n\lt ; studied fully its spectrum nor the best method of procuring it for spes troscopic study .
I have also made a few observations on stercobili and on urobilin , prepared by sodium amalgam from bilirubin , whtGji show that the conclusion is rather premature that the pigment know as febrile urobilin is identical with either , as I had already inferred .
Spectra of Bilirubin , Biliverdin , Bilifuscin , Bililmmin , and Bib prasin.\#151 ; Bilirubin possesses a peculiar absorptive power for the vioh end of the spectrum , and in concentrated solution it absorbs all thii end up to D. Dr. Quinlanf proposes that this property should B made use of for the detection of bilirubin in urine .
The very abru ] character of the edge of the shading is quite peculiar .
It sembles in this respect solutions of tetronerythrin and concentrate solutions of lutein , especially of egg-yolk .
The red coloration p\#171 ; * " Proc. Hoy .
Soc. , " 1880 , vol. 31 , pp. 26 , 206 .
^ + " The Application of Spectrum Analysis to the Estimation of Bile in t e Secretion of Patients suffering from Jaundice , " " Proc. Roy .
Irish Acad. " 2nd Ml vol HI ( Science ) .
See also " Die Quantitative Spectralanalyse in ihrer Anwendui auf Physiologic , Physik , Chemie und Technology " By Carl Yierordt .
1876 .
Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of , $c .
389 laced in urine by boiling with hydrochloric acid has a similar absorp-ive power for the violet and blue .
It is certainly worthy of remark %at chlorophyll in plants , and haemoglobin , tetronerythrin , lutein , md bilirubin in animals , should have this property .
T Biliverdin has much the same optical characters as bilirubin , except i , hat more green is transmitted .
I brownish-green alcoholic solution of biliprasin was found to hsorb in a deep layer the spectrum up to three-fourths the distance rom D to E , but the edge of the shading was not abrupt , but gradually shaded off towards red .
It gave the spectrum of Gmelin 's Reaction when treated with nitric acid ; and with caustic soda a peculiar shading or feeble band became detached , placed midway between D and E. The yellow-brown alcoholic solution of bilifuscin have a similar spectrum , and behaved similarly as regards spectrum tnth nitric acid and with caustic soda .
I Bilihumin when dissolved in alcohol formed a dirty brownish-green solution , which had the same optical properties as the last two colouring-matters .
It became yellow-brown with caustic soda , and gave the band already described .
It also gave Gmelin 's reaction , i Bile Spectra of various Animals.\#151 ; I have already drawn attention to she peculiar series of bands seen in the bile of certain animals , and shown that they are probably due to the presence of altered haematins.* [ have examined since then the bile of the tortoise , mud turtle , common ringed snake , and cormorant , but could detect no bands .
During hibernation no urobilin could be detected in the bile of the reptiles .
I have succeeded in detecting this colouring-matter in the alcoholic extract of the liver of Salamandra maculata in greater quantity than can be accounted for on the supposition that it was present in the blood-vessels of the liver , and this indicates that urobilin is probably formed in that organ .
I shall show further on there are reasons for supposing that the hydrobilirubin in the intestine differs somewhat from the urobilins of urine .
In the liver of the toad , frog , newt , tortoise , ringed snake , and mud turtle , as well as in that of the pig , cat .
guinea-pig , rabbit , and man , I can find no urobilin in the alcohol extract , probably for the same reasons that other chemical compounds .which are known to be formed in that organ cannot be detected in its extract , namely , that they are removed as soon as formed.f The alcohol extract of the above-mentioned livers generally showed the lutein spectrum .
In the alcohol extract of the liver of a little fish , which I believe was Blenniuspholis , abundance of tetronerytherin was * " Spectroscope in Medicine , " 1880 , and " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1880 , vol. 31 , p. 26 .
It is a very interesting fact that the bile of Pulmonate Jtlollusca and of A.stacus f. should contain reduced , hsematin like that of certain mammalia in which I have found it , as already communicated to the Royal Society .
t I have found hydrobilirubin in the faeces of the frog and salamander .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
found .
Now as this pigment occurs in the skin of and other fishes , it is not impossible that in some fishes the liver ma t function in a similar manner to that of Invertebrates , and serve as i pigment-storing organ for surface coloration .
Detection of Bilirubin , Sfc .
, in Exudations.\#151 ; The peculiar series ol bands , and the way in which they appear and disappear when solu tions of the bile-pigments are treated with nitric acid , serve as accu rately for their detection as can be wished .
In a former paper ' showed the effect of chlorine in traces on such a solution , and thr description of the spectrum thereby produced applies to Gmelin'-reaction .
A band appears before D , then one after D , and one at P the second one fades away first , followed by that before D , and that a ?
P is left .
This finally also disappears .
No other animal colourings matter behaves in this manner , hence this test is conclusive .
In apply- !
ing it the colouring-matters should , if possible , be got into solution ic alcohol or chloroform , and the nitric acid added to the solution .
Care \lt ; is necessary in the case of the alcoholic solution , and it should be diluted sufficiently with water before adding the acid .
Origin of the Colouring-matters of Bile.\#151 ; The discrepancies in the !
statements of physiological chemists as to the identity of haematoidin and bilirubin probably arose from the fact that deposits of blood colouring-matter , undergoing all stages of decomposition , have been included under that name .
The evidence for the identity is given by Hoppe-Seyler in his " Physiologische Chemie " ( pp. 311\#151 ; 313 ) .
I have already shown that the same pigments can be formed from haemoglobin and bilirubin , but an actual proof of the transformation of haemoglobin into biliverdin has not , so far as I know , been brought forward until now .
The liquid* in which the biliverdin was detected had been removed by tapping from the tunica vaginalis testis of a case of chronic !
epididymitis .
Six months before the specimen was removed the saci had been transfixed by a needle in the hope of causing absorption , but : without effect ; three months later it was punctured with a t roc liar and canula , and about two ounces of blackish bloody serum drawn off , but the fluid again accumulated , and at the end of three months tapping was again performed .
The liquid removed on this occasion was a dark bluish-green .
Since it was albuminous , a method had to be adopted , before applying the spectroscopic test , which would coagulate the albumen without altering the colouring-matter , and then extract the latter .
The liquid showed , however , without any treatment , the presence of a haemoglobin derivative , which was proved by appropriate tests to be a body intermediate between methaemoglobin and haematin ; it also absorbed strongly the violet end of the spectrum .
The albumen * I have to thank Dr. Carter , of Birmingham , for this specimen .
Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , fyc .
391 Was coagulated by absolute alcohol , and thrown on a filter , the mass on the filter exhausted with it , the faintly green filtrate evaporated at a gentle heat .
When the residue was extracted with alcohol , and the latter treated with nitric acid after proper dilution , the above reaction and the spectrum of Gmelin 's reaction could be made out easily .
It is a well-known fact that nitric acid will lead to erroneous conclusions when added to an alcoholic solution of bile-pigments , but the spectroscope always shows whether the colour reaction is due to bile-pigment or not .
As well as I could make out , the band before D extended from X.620\#151 ; 596 , that after D faded quickly away , that at F read from X5H\#151 ; 494 .
By the action of oxidising and reducing agents I found that the pigment present could have been nothing else but biliverdin .
In this case no jaundice was present and the only source from which the biliverdin could have been derived was haemoglobin , which was first converted into methsemoglobin , then into the pigment intermediate between that and haematin , and finally into biliverdin .
This transformation was probably one of gradual oxidation , assisted by the action of a ferment , which is doubtless present in hydrocele liquid .
That a ferment is present in the testis is probable , as Berthelot has prepared glucose by rubbing up testicular tissue , glycerine , and man-nite together .
The ** haematochlorin of the placenta of the bitch is probably formed in a similar manner .
Identity of Stercobilin and HydrobilirDifferences from Urobilin of Urine.\#151 ; The spectra of solutions of hydrobilirubin prepared by the action of sodium amalgam on bilirubin have been already described , f I have again prepared it , and find no differences in the characters of the pigment from those which I described ; but I have to call attention to Chart II , sp. 14 , of my former paper , which represents an alcoholic solution of hydrobilirubin treated with caustic soda .
In that spectrum a band is shown touching C and placed between that line and D , another at D , and a third from b to near F. I now find the very same bands in an alcoholic extract of the faeces of the cat , after treatment with caustic soda .
They were also seen in extracts of gall-stones , as I have previously stated , but these bands are not found in an alcoholic solution of urobilin from urine when treated with caustic soda .
Hence if the urobilin of urine is derived from the hydrobilirubin of the intestine , it has undergone some change after leaving the intestine ( by absorption ) .
An alcoholic solution of cat 's faeces J shows the band at F with great distinctness from A.505\#151 ; 484 , and after treatment with caustic soda , the orange solution became more yellow and gave a less refrangible band from A.516\#151 ; 500 in a shallow layer , but in a deep one that * Preyer , " Die Blutkrystalle .
" f " Proc , Roy .
Soc. , " 1880 , vol. 31 , p. 206 .
J Removed after death , from large intestine .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
reagent developed a band in red between C and D , and another covering D , exactly as figured in the above-mentioned chart of spectra .
The centre of the first was at \634 , of the second at X589 .
In an alcoholic solution of artificially prepared hydrobilirubin caustic soda develops the same bands , but in an alcoholic solution of febrile urobilin they are not seen after it is added , a band in green being seen instead .
I have isolated febrile urobilin several times , and find its spectra coincide with those previously described , * and that the two bands near D are as much part of the spectrum as that at F. So-called indigo-blue gives a band before D , and " omicholin " one after D , but I find that these bands give totally different readings , and neither was present in the isolated pigment ; but this will be again referred to .
The Colouring-matters of Sheep and Ox Bile.\#151 ; When some brown-green sheep bile in a thickness of 18 millims. was placed before the slit of the spectroscope ( one-prism chemical ) , the spectrum was absorbed at one end at X744 completely , at the other at X534 ; the shading was continued for some slight distance over the visible spectrum ; between these points three bands were visible , viz.:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... . .
X666\#151 ; 634 2nd " ... ... . .
X610\#151 ; 587-5 3rd ... ... ... . .
X576\#151 ; 561 In the same depth of brown ox bile three bands are also visible which had the same position.f Absolute alcohol was now added to both specimens of bile , and they were then filtered .
The ox bile filtrate appeared to have a slightly red fluorescence ; it had a red colour ( by gaslight it was dichroic , vide and gave four bands as follows :\#151 ; 1st Band Centre ... 648 -5 2nd .
X612\#151 ; 584 -5 .
... 596 3rd ... X578\#151 ; 564 .
99 % . . . .
... 570 4th , , ... X536\#151 ; 518 .
95 ... 528 When this was shaken with chloroform , the latter took up the colouring-matter and was dichroic ; looked down upon in a beaker , it appeared red , but had a greenish tinge with transmitted daylight^ This gave a spectrum of four bands:\#151 ; 1st Band 2nd , , 3rd " 4th , , X651\#151 ; 634 X604\#151 ; 581 -5 X571 -5\#151 ; 561 X534\#151 ; 516 * " Proc. Eoy .
Soc.1880 , vol. 31 , p. 26 .
1 \#166 ; f Maps of the spectra of ox and sheep bile are given in the paper published in " Proc. Roy .
Soc. " already referred to .
Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , 8fc .
393 This solution looked greenish on a white dish , and after evaporation over the water-bath left a residue of a peculiar colour , a kind of mixture of green , brown , and red .
It was soluble in alcohol , giving the spectrum already described ( and the dichroism ) ; but a portion remained undissolved , which had a lavender colour and dissolved in chloroform , forming a rose-red solution ( gaslight , green by daylight ) , giving the same spectrum as the former chloroformic solution .
Both nitric and hydrochloric acid developed bands in this chloroformic solution , somewhat like those of sulphate of cruentine or acid haemato-porphyrin , but having different measurements and peculiarities of Bhading .
The colouring-matter of ox bile is also soluble m ether , and this gives the same series of bands as an alcohol or chloroform Fa chloroformic solution of sheep bile showed in addition the band of urobilin from A502\#151 ; 482 .
Several experiments were made on these colouring-matters , but as my object is merely to show that : ( 1 ) chlorophyll as such cannot be present in sheep bile , since the band in red is in an entirely different position ; and ( 2 ) to compare the spectrum of sheep and ox bile with that of Gmelin 's reaction , I will not here give further details , especially as I hope to study the relationship of these colouring-matters to those of various decomposition products of haemoglobin and chlorophyll at some future time .
If chlorophyll were present , not only would the band mentioned above have been nearer the red , but the spectrum of acid chlorophyll should have been got with nitric acid , which was not the case .
With regard to the spectrum of ox bile , Hoppe-Seyler* makes a statement which cannot now be accepted .
After describing the spectrum of ox bile , he says that , the same body can be got by the oxidation of bilirubin , biliverdin , or bilifuscin , with nitric acid or bromine-water , when these are made to act on chloroformic solutions .
According to my observations , a body of totally different spectrum appearances is produced under these circumstances .
Thus , if the bilicyctnin of Heynsius and Campbellf ( which according to Hoppe is identical with the sheep bile pigment , and which gives the bands before and after D ) be prepared according to the following method , which I find answers for the purpose , a different conclusion is arrived at .
An aqueous alkaline solution of bilirubin was treated with nitric acid until the black band was seen at T ; it was then quickly poured into a separating funnel , diluted with water and shaken with chloro- * " Handbuch , " loc- cit-\gt ; P- 211 .
It cannot be denied that the pigment of sheep and ox bile is partly a hi\#174 ; matin derivative , and it does present some likeness to chlorophyll .
It may possibly be a mixture of derivatives of both .
I hope to investigate this shortly .
f " Arch. f. d. Q-es .
Physiol. , " IY , p. 497 .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
form , bat the chloroform failed to take mach coloaring-mafter up ; a deposit formed , being precipitated by the chloroform , which , when dissolved in alcohol , formed a fine bine solution , giving a band before D and one at F , the first from A616\#151 ; 590'5 , the second X507\#151 ; 486 * By further addition of nitric acid to this solution it could be made to show a band after D ; it was then shaken with chloroform , and the latter separated off was a purple-red by gaslight , and gave 3 st Band ... ... \620\#151 ; 592 or 590 *5 2nd " ... ... ... X583\#151 ; 548 3rd " ... ... . .
X509\#151 ; 486 If these measurements are compared with those of the bands of a similar solution of ox or sheep bile colouring-matter a wide difference is apparent .
Hence the pigments of sheep or ox bile and that produced from bilirubin by oxidising agents are not the same .
Another spectrum can be got by acting on bilirubin in alkaline aqueous solution with potassium permanganate ; by cautious addition of this reagent a band appears in the space between D and E , and touching the latter line ; but on adding more permanganate it disappears and a green solution is formed , which is merely due to the action of the caustic soda , used in dissolving the bilirubin , on the permanganate .
III .
On some Unusual Urine Pigments , \amp ; g. In former papers I have described four pigments , namely , febrile urobilin , normal urobilin , urohoematin , and I have here to refer to the spectroscopic detection of indican in urine , to , and to a peculiar colouring-matter met with in pale urine .
I am more convinced than ever that only by the use of the spectroscope can these pigments be distinguished from each other ; and the condition of the first three furnishes one with an exact test of the amount of the metabolism of haemoglobin , and of the oxidation or reduction going o*1 i-11 the organism .
I have first to refer to some matters bearing on former results .
The Spectrum of Febrile TJrobilin.\#151 ; I have made measurements of the bands of solutions of this pigment , as those in my first paper- ) ' were not made with the help of the more exact method of measuring now at my disposal.\#163 ; The pigment was obtained by means of the method described in former papers .
* A shading was perceptible after D from A589\#151 ; 548 ?
t " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1880 , vol. 31 , p. 26 .
t All the wave-lengths in this paper are calculated by means of an interpolation curve adapted to the scale of a one-prism chemical spectroscope , as the microspec-troscope cannot be sufficiently relied upon for accurate work .
Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Sfc .
395 The chloroform solution gave three bands:\#151 ; 1 n I " Ronfl \612\#151 ; 592 Centre ... .
604 X.576\#151 ; 552 564 Zna 9 ) . . . .
Qr\#187 ; rl ... .
\511\#151 ; 488 \#171 ; \#171 ; ... .
499 The ethereal solution also gave three hands :\#151 ; 1st Band ... .
\610\#151 ; 589 Centre ; . . .
... .
600 , .
\576\#151 ; 545 562 ^na || .
* .
* \#151 ; 4.88 498 oxu .
An absolute alcohol solution gave:\#151 ; 1 \610\#151 ; 587 *5 Centre ... .
... .
600 o " , q \576\#151 ; 558 567 ?
3rd " . ? . .
\516\#151 ; 488 ... .
502 This with caustic soda gave two bands : the first from A583\#151 ; 561 , and second , X-521\#151 ; 507 .
In a deep layer of an aqueous solution a faint shadow could be seen covering D ; by treatment of this aqueous solution with permanganate of potassium , this shadow could be made to disappear ; that at IT was narrowed , became hazy , and finally disappeared .
So that just as normal urobilin can be reduced back to febrile urobilin , as I formerly showed , so can febrile be oxidised into normal urobilin .
By acting on an alcoholic solution with caustic soda no hands at 0 and D in the position of those obtained in a similar solution of hydrobilirulin artificially prepared , or in a similar solution of stercobilin , could be seen .
Hence febrile urobilin is not identical , as previously stated ( supra ) , with hydrobilirubin or with stercobilin .
If it is derived from stercobilin , it has undergone some change before its excretion in the urine .
Dr. Barley 's Urohcematin.\#151 ; I have repeated Dr. Harley 's experiments on " urohsematin and find not only is his pigment totally different from any that I have described , but a mixture of several decomposition products of chromogens , produced by the action of heat and mineral acids on them ; nor by following out his directions could anything approaching a pure residue be obtained .
Hoppe-Seyler s conclusion that his results are only of historical value may therefore be accepted .
I mention this , as I had omitted in former papers to say that Dr. Harley had inferred , long before the spectroscope was used in such investigations , that the colouring-matter of urine was derived from that of blood , but the resemblance between his " urohsematin and the pigments which I have described lies only in the name .
* " Ueber TJrohseniafcin und seine " Verbindung mit Animalschem Harze .
Aus den Verliand .
der Physicalisch-Med .
G-esellsch .
zu Wurzburg , " Bd .
5 , 1854 .
Also " Pharmac .
Journal and Trans , " vol. xii , 1852\#151 ; 53 , p. 243 .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
TTrohcematin and Hcematoporphyrin.\#151 ; Since I described urohaematin I have met with it five times , four times in the urine of acute rheumatism and once in the urine of a case of so-called " idiopathic " pericarditis .
Its occurrence in the urine in the former disease appears to be pretty constant , and this is interesting when its artificial production is borne in mind , since it is produced by the action of nascent hydrogen on acid hsematin .
It would seem to indicate that an acid fermentation , attended by the destruction of considerable quantities of haemoglobin , is present in that disease , and this agrees with the well-known fact that a product of such fermentation is present in the blood of acute rheumatism , namely , lactic acid.* Since this acid is produced from glycogen ( as well as in the muscles ) , and since haemoglobin is broken down in the spleen and sent into the liver ( being helped there by the rhythmical contraction of the spleen , which Roy has discovered ) , to be changed into the colouring-matters of bile and urine , it would appear that the liver is the principal seat of this peculiar fermentation .
The presence of urohaematin in the urine at all events indicates that the normal oxidation of haemoglobin down into urobilin is not taking place , and that probably the bodies with which urohaematin is associated are also insufficiently oxidised .
Hence its occurrence is of great pathological importance .
I find that when present in sufficient quantity it can be detected without isolation , as its bands are easily seen in the urine itself .
In this liquid it can be made to show two spectra which are equally characteristic , namely , that of acid and .
neutral urohcematin , and these can be distinguished from those of methgemoglobin or of hsematin , by the use of sulphide of ammonium , as this has no effect on urohaematin .
It occurs in the urine in the condition of neutral or slightly alkaline urohaematin , and this shows four bands\#151 ; a feeble one between C and D , two between D and E , and a third close to F ( see sp. 16 ) ; the second and third bands might easily be mistaken for acid methaemoglobin , but sulphide of ammonium , as stated above , serves to distinguish them .
Moreover , when it is present , Day 's test fails to give a blue coloration .
The bands just referred to gave in the urine the following measurements :\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... . .
A.620\#151 ; 608 2nd " ___ ... . .
\580\#151 ; 661 3rd " ... ... . .
\542\#151 ; 530 4th " ... ... . .
X507\#151 ; 486 * The presence of lactic acid in the blood of patients suffering from acute rheumatism is inferred from the experiments of Dr. Richardson .
There is at all events an excessive production of acid of some kind in that disease .
I failed to produce any endo- or peri-carditis in guinea-pigs and rabbits by the injection of lactic acid into their peritoneal cavities .
Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , fyc .
397 On adding an acid , such , as nitric , in small quantity , two very characteristic bands came into view:\#151 ; ... ... ... X594\#151 ; 587 -5 ( sp. 17 ) 2nd , , ... ... ... X556 '5\#151 ; 542 At first sight they seem to resemble the bands of acid hsemato-porphyrin , but they are different .
To prove this I adapted an interpolation curve to the drawing of the spectrum of that body figured by Hoppe-Seyler and found the following measurements for acid hsemato-porphyrin:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... ... .
X601\#151 ; 589 2nd , , ... ... . .
X566\#151 ; 546 For his alkaline hsematoporphyrin the following measurements were found:\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... ... .
X630\#151 ; 615 2nd " ... ... ... X601\#151 ; 565 3rd " ... ... ... .
X551\#151 ; 539 4th " ... ... ... X521\#151 ; 498 Hence they are not identical .
I have also prepared hsematoporphyrin in different ways , and find that urohaematin , although closely resembling it , is not the same body , nor is it identical with Baumstark's* urorubrohcematin or urofusco-hcematin , as the solubility of these bodies is different .
The other characters of the isolated pigment are described in my last paper.t Spectroscopic Detection of Indican in Brine.\#151 ; In cases where Jaffe 's test fails to detect indican in urine the spectroscope is able to detect it.\#163 ; The best method , and one which , after repeated trials , I find easily applied , is somewhat like that of Stockvis , but while he used nitric I use hydrochloric acid .
The urine is mixed with about its own bulk of hydrochloric acid and boiled ; after cooling , it is agitated with chloroform , not violently shaken , and left to rest for some time .
When the urine contains indican the chloroform-layer is more or less violet and shows a band before D. The latter corresponds in position with that of the so-called " omicholin .
" In applying the test the urine always gets more or less red , and there is a strong absorption of the violet end of the spectrum ; now I find that in cases where no indican is present this reddening takes place .
Some authorities say that this reddening is due to urrhodin , others that it is due to indigo-red , while others maintain that these two colouring-matters are the same .
But * " Berielite der Deutsch .
Chem. Gesellsch .
, " 1874 , Bd .
7 , p. 1170 .
t " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1880 , vol. 31 , p. 206 .
X Jaffe 's test is described in most worts on the urine .
See e.g. , Neubauer and " Vogel , " Analysis of Urine , " American translation , 1879 .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
but it is partly due to the oxidation of the chromogen of urobilin ' srnce the latter goes into the chloroform when the mixture is shaken with it , and can be detected by means of the spectroscope .
At the same time the oxidation of the urobilin chromogen does not account for all the red coloration produced in normal urine and for the presence of the colouring matter , which then possesses an absorptive power for the violet end of the spectrum .
Hence the so-called indigo-red in urine is not due to the presence of indican , as it is present m quite normal urine , while indigo-blue cannot be obtained from the same urine in all cases .
I have , therefore , to agree with those who maintain that the above-described absorption of the violet end of the spectrum is due to " urrhodin , " and who also maintain that urrnodm and indigo-red are different colouring-matters .
In most cases where I have detected indican by this method I have noticed a band in the urine which seems to be connected in some way with its presence .
Thus , in the urine of a case of aphasia , due to embolism from mitral disease , the addition of hydrochloric acid to the urine ( which was a reddish colour ) made it redder in colour , and a band became developed , beginning about half wav between D extending nearl7 to E. It probably extended from .
8 5d4 .
The urobilin band was also visible .
On boiling the urine with hydrochloric acid , cooling , and agitating with chloroform , the latter became a faint purple-red colour ; this showed two bands with their centres at X608 and X57P5 .
On evaporating the chloroform , alcohol took up the pigment from the residue , and gave two similar bands .
In this case the band before D was less shaded than that after D , but in other cases the reverse was the case ; this teaches that not one , but two distinct colouring-matters are indicated by the presence of these bands , for if only one colouring-matter was indicated by them then they should possess the same relative degree of shading when dissolved in the same medium in different cases .
Another specimen of urine gave* the band referred to above , namely , extending from half-way between D and E to near E , and on treating , as before , with hydrochloric acid and chloroform , the indigo-blue band before D was well seen , the band after D uncertain .
The urobilin band was also visible .
In a specimen of urine ( from a case of enteritis ) , which was a kind of olive-brown colour , the same treatment developed the bands , of which one extended from A.620\#151 ; 592 , the other X.583\#151 ; 561 ( in a chloroformic solution ) .
Possibly a bile pigment partially oxidised might be mistaken for the pigment , but in * Without any treatment whatever* Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , fyc .
399 the latter case the addition of nitric acid would cause the disappearance of the bands near D , while in the case of indigo-blue no effect would be produced .
I have tried the effect of the above treatment on solutions of bile-pigment and on bilicyanin , and find that they behave quite differently from indican .
When febrile urobilin , or urohaematin , or uroerythrin , or other pigment is present , this test is still applicable , and will probably be found of great use in clinical work .
( See ^ 18 ) Uroerythrin:\#151 ; A hot alcohol extract of uroerythrin from pink urates always gives a double absorption band from about three-fourths the distance between D and E to beyond F , and therefore differs most decidedly in spectrum from that figured by Dr. Thudichum ; * instead of showing the three well-defined bands figured by him , it always gives a hazy double band or shading in the position described .
The uroerythrin which I examined always answered to the description , as regards chemical character , given in books on physiological chemistry , which I need not repeat .
I have figured this spectrum in sp. 19 , for comparison .
I cannot trace any connexion between uroerythrin and indican or urobilin , but it often accompanies uro-hsematin ; and it will be found probably derived from a radical belonging to the aromatic group of carbon compounds .
A peculiar Bed Colouring-matter in Pale Urine .
When urine becomes red on the addition of a mineral acid one is apt to conclude that this is due to the formation of indigo-red or urrhodin , or possibly that oxidation of the chromogen of urobilin has taken place , or that a bile pigment may be present , but the specimens of urine which I am about to refer to , contained a pigment which was not one nor the other , as its various spectra showed .
The specimen of urine w\amp ; s sent to me by Dr. Carter of Birmingham ' !
' who informed me that it came from " an anaemic sickly fellow " who was taking copaiba and sandal-wood oil for chronic blenorrhcea .
I may here state that the urine of other patients taking these drugs failed to show any sign of the presence of the pigment .
The first specimen of urine only amounted to about an ounce , and owing to an accident half of it was lost .
It had a pale straw colour , was faintly acid , and gave the band of normal urobilin .
When treated with nitric acid in the cold it changed to a splendid ruby-red colour and gave a very feeble band at D , and a very dark one between D and E and touching E , the latter from A.558 534 ; the feeble shading perhaps from X612\#151 ; 589 ?
; but on boiling with nitric acid this red colour was destroyed , it became yellow , and the bands were no longer seen .
On adding hydrochloric acid the same feeble band appeared at D , apd in a deep layer the whole spectrum up to * \#171 ; Joum .
( Them .
Soc.1875 ( 2 ) , vol. 13 , p. 389 .
t On January 24 , 1882 .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
near D was absorbed , in a thinner layer three other bands were visible , the colour of the solution changing to a fine carmine-red .
The three bands read as follows :\#151 ; 1st Band ... ... . .
X558\#151 ; 534 2nd " ... ... ... X516\#151 ; 496 3rd " ... ... ... .
X476\#151 ; 462 ( see sp. 20 and 21 ) On boiling this solution the colour was not destroyed , but the band in violet disappeared .
When agitated with chloroform or ether no pigment went into solution .
When the red liquid got by adding hydrochloric acid to the urine was treated with caustic potash in excess the colour disappeared , but again reappeared on adding hydrochloric acid in excess .
But in the second specimen obtained three weeks after the above examination , from the same patient , the chemical and spectroscopic characters differed slightly from those of the first specimen , but were essentially the same .
On adding about one quarter of its own volume of nitric acid the liquid assumed a splendid red colour , and when agitated with chloroform , the latter removed the colouring-matter forming a lake-red solution ; by means of daylight the spectrum was seen to consist of one broad band across the middle of the spectrum , from near D to half way between F and G , and on dilution this hand could not be divided into two .
After evaporation of this solution a pale yellow residue was left , the change of colour being due probably to the action of the heat , and a little of the acid left in the chloroform , on the pigment .
If too much nitric acid was added it also lost its red colour .
With nitric acid alone , a band could be seen between D and E and touching the latter line .
On treating the urine with hydrochloric acid and shaking with chloroform , the latter assumed a fine carmine colour , and after filtering gave the same kind of absorption as the nitric acid treated liquid , the broad band extending from between D and E to beyond F. Ammonia at once discharged the red colour of this solution , hut it reappeared on acidifying afresh ; caustic potash and .
caustic soda acted similarly .
On adding alcohol to a chloroformic solution the colour changed to orange , and then only the violet end of the spectrum was absorbed .
The red colour produced by nitric acid , or hydrochloric acid , was also taken up by agitating with bisulphide of carbon , and this gave the same kind of spectrum as the chloroform solution .
It was interesting to find out whether indican was here present ; the urine was therefore boiled with hydrochloric acid , and after cooling shaken with chloroform , it then gave the indigo-blue band before D , and another band after D ; and on evaporation left a bluish-black residue .
A portion of the latter was soluble in alcohol , forming Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , tyc .
401 a purple solution which gave two bands : 1st , from \630\#151 ; 589 ; 2nd , about \573\#151 ; 555 .
Hence this urine did contain indican .
Although the spectroscopic characters of the second specimen did somewhat resemble those of urrhodin , yet those of the first were quite different , and hence 1 have concluded that the colouring-matter was not urrhodin .
It also differs from the pigment described by Plosz , * and seems from the description of " Urorosei'n " of Nencki and Sieberf to resemble that pigment , which showed in amylic alcohol a band between D and E with its maximum of shading at A557 .
It is at all events closely related to urrhodin .
Unfortunately I had not material enough for further study .
In the urine of progressive pernicious anasmia a peculiar colouring-matter was noticed , which after boiling the urine with hydrochloric acid and shaking with chloroform , imparted to the latter extract a fine red colour , giving a band between D and E , but I hope to study the pigments of the urine of that disease more fully at some future time .
EXPLANATION OF SPECTRUM CHART .
Sp. 1 .
Alcohol extract of chlorophyll of Primula ( obtained as described in the paper ) treated with , nitric acid .
v 2 .
Alcohol extract of liver of Ostrcea edulis , showing band of enterochlorophyll in red at B. " 3 .
The same solution with nitric acid , which developes exactly the same spectrum as 1 .
" 4 , Alcohol extract of liver of A/ nodonta cygnea .
The greater breadth of band at B is due to fact that more chlorophyll is present than in the liver extract of which 2 is the spectrum .
" 5 .
The same solution with nitric acid .
The slight difference of position of the bands* ' in this and spectra 1 and 3 is due probably to a little more , or a little less , acid having been added .
" 6 .
Alcohol extract of liver of Octopus vulgaris .
This appears to give without any treatment a spectrum closely resembling 1 , 3 , and 5 .
" 7 .
Ether extract of the same liver , showing double band in red .
In some cases this double band , or another like it , is got by treating enterochlorophyll with nitric acid .
" 8 .
Alcohol extract of liver of Buccinum undatum .
This , like the extract of liver of Octopus , appears to contain acid enterochlorophyll ; cf.it with 6 , 5 , 3 , 1 .
" 9 .
Alcohol extract of liver of Helix pomatia , showing band of enterochlorophyll and those of hsemochromogen ( reduced hsematin ) .
" 10 .
Bile of Limax flavus , treated with a little ammonium sulphide , showing the bands of reduced haematin .
The slight difference in the position of the latter and those of 9 is due to the solvent , alcohol in case of 9 and " bile " in case of 10 .
" 11 .
Bile of Homarus vulgaris , showing presence of a pigment identical with one * " Zeitschrift fur Physiol. Chemie , " Band VI , Heft 6,1882 .
f " Journ , Chemie , " xxvi , 333-336 .
VOL. XXXV .
2 V Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
If f R ft f Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , fyc .
403 which occurs in the coloured membrane lining the shell , and probably identical with Moseley 's " actinochrome , " also traces of enterochlorophyll , \amp ; c. ( From three different depths .
) 12 .
Bile of Pagurus bernhardus .
13 .
Bile of Astacus Jluviatilis , showing presence of reduced heematin ( sulphide of ammonium having been added ) .
This spectrum is a combination of the results of examining a deep and shallow layer of " bile .
" 14 .
Alcohol extract of cceca of Uraster , showing presence of enterochlorophyll .
15 The same with nitric acid .
Cf .
5 , 3,1 , 16^ Spectrum of urine containing urohfematin ( without any treatment whatever ) .
This is due to the presence of neutral uroheematin .
17 .
Spectrum of urine containing urohsematin treated with a couple of drops of nitric acid ; this is due to presence of acid urohaematin .
18 .
Appearance of a chloroform solution of indigo-blue and , perhaps , omicholin got by boiling urine with hydrochloric acid , cooling , and shaking with chloroform .
The band at F is due to febrile urobilin .
19 .
Alcohol extract of uroerythrin from pink urates ( got by boiling with alcohol , \amp ; c. ) . . .
20 .
Urine containing a peculiar red colouring-matter mentioned m the paper .
This spectrum was got by treating it with nitric acid .
21 .
The same urine with hydrochlpric acid .
This spectrum is a combination of three , as the feeble band near D is not seen in a depth which shows the other two .
.s VOL. XXXV .

