]\gt ; 1877 .
] On some Phenomena connected with Vision .
487 do not succumb quite so rapidly .
The cnuse of this dendly influence exerted been fouud to depend on the the mineral constituollts of ) , { not , as ssiz supposed , on of density the former and the lntter .
Chloride of sodium } in pproprinte a in fresh , deprives the tter , to cxteut , its eferious iluence ; but this is not the { ith any other } ance I tried .
Brine acts a , s csthetic , ttlld , in resI ) of the cles aallubrium of their .
tonus , exerts au the opposite of thnt is II .
On some connected with Vision By B. , Arris Galc Lccturer on tomy and , the of cons , the fiddlcscx IIospit Icdicnl School .
Comlnu by .
SrOKES , Scc .
R.S. cd .
1 .
of 2 .
On 1 .
tl , Pl , / 'of 18 , Some ) onths t it to me thaf of ] tion of the shades prodncod by rnled lrfn ccs those produced iation iutetlsity of old alford seful deolmexion ith the p ) of upon the On nUlnber of oodcuts ] I there lly ) ni le the the of t ) the Sllrfaoe : \mdash ; ( )b ' sccn iJlG m bc of or p:lbSLtY by a ctly of the ]lature of ] I to the sity of th slinl t the I dles from ) so that each CiLndle C ] Mr. B. T. Lowne on some [ Jan. 11 , being so rranged that each illuminates the shadow cast by the other .
I , however , added a woodcut , in which I had previously determined the ralio of white and blrck in the shades by it with a microscope and low-power objective .
This woodcut was so placed that it was illuby the light from both candles ; by varying the distances of the candles I produced shadows of the same intensity as the shades in the print , the intensity of the shadow by making it fall close to the colresponding shade in the print without it .
When the two appeared continuous , iewed such a distance th the ruled surface still a ruled surface to the eye if ely observed , I found the proportion of the white in the ruled aried as the root of the to hich the illumin ] of a wholly white sm.face had to be reduced to the ofher .
I found , for stance , in my first experiment , that ) the Jldles were placed at the distttJlces of and four fcet respectively , the intest shadow somewhat brighter th portion of the 11 oodcut in which black and white , and the rker was somewhat a surface .
the light thrown on the screen by the nearer cftndle to the adieu of 100 units , of the more relnol ed gives 20- umits .
The total illumi]aion of the screen 11 as , thon , units\mdash ; that of the darker shadow units , that of the ighter 1 .
The pol.tions of the screell , therefore , the ratios of ] ation : the sensations nearly ] of shaded or : 9 : square of the intensities In ery case I found the appnrent illumin ) a to a ruled surface , varied inversely as the of the of light .
is no difficnlty in a very close approximntion , the eve easily detects shadow by of the hole ] , as been by mbert , mholtz , The experiments made by indicated al.e to a ccrtain extent by the light ; but when moderate plcc{ltions differs no ) ceptible degree from the by the shadows , so that light , I , be neglected .
In order to tcst lrther the of of -hich the exclcci ] al is only , not metstlre The ccount of these c ) cnts was cd DcccnllbcJ 1 1877 .
] Phenomena connected with Vision .
489 perimeIlfsal'e buscepHble , 011 the aftel.noon of ovember 2 I made 24 exporiJllPllts i sets .
eiLch c an assistant one of dles m I told him to stop ; he then rked the tnble with piece of Aftel .
each experiments I ] the the hest cnlldlc fronll to 3 metl.es distnnt .
I cidculnted the results aftel .
fillished , ound , in the first , the ] the of I at , as I papor ruled to .
On ith the scope I ( the from it as the too lbc ) ] ) the centre of each line a ( , so tely n I could luensul .
it , it ented the mcit .
This mcnsurement is sonr of In and fonnd the ould h as only , ucnrly I could blttc 0 ) ill still less .
I therefore , I say the errol diffcrent ] ] the of ting the ruling , .
not th hen a is .
With fo the .
its tion is diificult , hert it to it dolle { its 11 vell ] , but the , the accul cient to my rlicr Gtnber of { he Of is only of a li I of to of my ' to if be in I COIIillced m A90 Mr. B. T. Lownc on some [ Jan. 11 , astigmatic eye appears lighter than when accurately focused ; and this appears to be cnse in surfacPs of considernble extent , so that it could not be dne to the formation of a htly larger picture .
A distant newspapor scarccly differs in appearance from a corresponding sheet of white paper , two nilar prints observed at suitable distances give different further one , when it no longer produces a distinct picture of the individual line , appears lighter in tone .
Still I did not feel quife tisfied until I succeeded in having accompttnying diagram for me .
squarcs and and have mo of black upon the surface : aJld b are and half .
At suitable distances the sensations result : as ffi the lines there fonr distinct shades ; and appear ]-er thnn aJld c respeotively .
the diagrnm is seen at distance of to 20 feet , and become in shade no longer be , but still nppctl.s much .
At a still there are but ) shades ; these remain distinct so its the can be distinguis : the is different ; no the sensation the same .
2 .
On Time reqffired to ProcJnce or Mnch difference of exists ; point , ttJl coll torv sfatements Icell mnde by the ities .
Munch .
Abb .
1 ii .
1877 .
] Phenomena connected with Vision .
491 states that the time which eJapscs b interLnittent luminous impressions producin discontinuity of sellsation varies as the roob of heir lulnillOUS iutensities ; bm Helmholtz seems to regard the statement as doubtful * .
Herman thnt the time required to impression varies in -hen the of the stimulus inc.reases , but llot ) his nuthority .
] } .
Del- eperilnents ith tYlccted the rate of occurs the esnlts whether it is or ely I mado serics of expel.imeutsn ith to those lnde by elboeuf and hite card , is set .
A portion of the is cned , so that a ) ) enrs dnring : by redueing the this ) and the of tho seetor at the time the of and that the ratio of tho the ains j I tiou of ctor , its no lc to nnil it 10 it vs hen it ) in cond , the of ndlo it to beforo fhc 0llly of ( of the ) } ith ion .
I the grcy is rftpid to the to occnpy SillJO for too time lor it to seen .
dnll stre must occupy the same position ut of to be the rsely the the .
-t upon a lltlt1h more ] to { hc duration of Ltor i the .
The of lleccsnry to oblitcl{ of blnck spot } nlso the distanco of tho ill ) .
On to A ) ery ) tion of { echner 's collvGll}ion } to sensations { their to stimnli tions tirely with ould measnre of sensation ] alent m holtz , .
Bullctiu Belgiqnc , lb .
G. vell on the of [ Jan. nerve chaJJge , so the expression ould become a physiological instead of a one .
Fechncr ards the nteJlsity of an increment of sensation as { is , the limina ] increment of a of { ho Xibfing .
This is If of the liminal incr ) of ari ding for ils alue on the sensalion , , instead of Fechner 's expression where represents the stimulns ] ] sensation .
This is furthcr borlle out by the beautiful of Dewar and Dr. that the electric ariation in the natural of the eye the of tensity of the ; alfhongh those authors to make their results ncoord with ) so by the erroneous use of ) es a1 ery wide range of .
Dr. J. DALTON , Prcsident , in the Chair .
The Presents received wero laid on table , ordered for them .
The read:\mdash ; I. ' Notc on the of the fixed ) usclcs of the CorIlea in the 1roccss of Inflammfttion By G. } ) B.A. Communicated by J. 13ultDoN F. .
S. Since the discovery by Von uscn of the of puscorpuscles into the of the in tiou ,

