Philos. ~ Fig.5 .
A Fig.7 .
c CC b ab Aba a bb c ab a A B ~ cB~ c fg ~ ~ Fig. ~ 8 .
hhi g a be c c c b ~a a ~ ~ Fig.6 .
Ab Bc BA E c B Fig.9 .
A Bc Bc D A BEcBC AE Philos. Trans. No.386 .
Fig.7 .
c b ac b e b b b ~ BC ~ EcBC AE B A E B D D F B B C A E G E B D D E B II .
Some Observations made in an Ostrich , dissected by Order of Sir Hans Sloane , Bart. By Mr. John Ranby , Surgeon .
F. R. S. HAving separated the Muscles of the Abdomen , which in this Subject were only two oblique Pair , we observed , between their Tendons , which were very strong , and the Peritonaeum , which was exceeding thin , a thick Layer of sevous Fat , whose Office , considering the Smallness of the Epiploon , and the few adipose Vesicles of the Mesentery , with the Thinness of the Peritonaeum , might probably be to supply the Part both of Epiploon and Mesentery in other Animals , as to lubricating the Intestines .
There were , in our Subject , two distinct Ventricles , contrary to the Observation of the Royal Academy at Paris .
The first , and in its natural Situation , the lower , which the Members of the said Academy , call the Craw , and suppose to be only a Dilatation of the Oesophagus , was considerably larger than the second , and uppermost Muscular One ; besides , that it had strong Muscular Fibres , both circular and longitudinal : The Duodenum comes immediately out of the second Ventricle .
Both Ventricles were distended beyond their usual Form , and filled up with so large a Quantity of Food of different Kinds , as Stones , Bones , Sticks , Grain , and other Food , that it was almost impossible for them to perform their Office of Digestion , which very likely was one of the chief Causes of the Animal 's Sickness and Death ; and , really , the Contents of both seemed to have undergone but very little or no Alteration .
The Epiploon partly covered the first Ventricle , but was no Ways proportionable to the Size of the Animal .
The Spleen was fastened , by a Membrane , to the right Side of the second Ventricle , and was very small , considering the Size of the Animal .
The Glands of the Mesentery were hardly visible , but the Veins and Arteries very conspicuous .
The Caecums , in our Subject , were near three Foot in Length , the Diameter one Inch eight Lines ; they were fastened to the Ileum , and not to the Colon , as the Gentlemen of the Royal Academy assert .
To their Description of the Kidneys , I have nothing to add , except that the two Ureters lay upon their Surface , as they do in other Birds , and that their different Branches , coming from all the Parts of the Kidney , of which the superior was very conspicuous , entered the Kidney about its Middle , and formed there a very large Pelvis .
The Liver was in one Cavity with the Heart , of which it covered near one half ; it had no Gall Bladder , and but one Ductus Bilarius inserted into the Duodenum , about two Inches below the Pylorus , which seemed to have an immediate Communication with the Vena Portae , because , by blowing into it , this latter was also distended .
The Heart and Liver were separated from the Intestines , by a membranous Diaphragm .
Both Heart and Liver were suspended by one common Mediastinum , by the Help of its several Membranes , and eight strong Muscles on each Side , arising from the upper Part of the Ribs , going from thence over the Lungs , and ending in a very strong Tendinous Membrane , which is inserted into the Spina Dorsi .
The Liquor , contained in the Pericardium , was small in Quantity , and perfectly transparent .
The Lungs lay under the Diaphragm and its Muscles , in a deep Cavity , formed by the five true Ribs .
They were pretty thick about the middle , and exceeding thin and sharp towards the Extremities .
In viewing the Eye external , it did somewhat resemble the Human Eye , except that it was less Convex , with a free and moveable upper Eye-lid , with Eyelashes , as most Terrestrial Animals have , besides a Tunica Nictitans , as in other Birds .
Besides the seven Muscles of the Eye , as they are in Brutes , it had two more , one arising from the fore-part of the Sclerotica , which soon formed a small Tendon , obliquely surrounding the Optic Nerve , and then joined to another Muscle , which arises opposite to the former , from which the Tendon continues its Way , and is inserted in the Tunica Nictitans .
The Aqueous Humour we found in greater Quantity , than is common .
The Crystalline was of an uniform Substance , but less Convex on the inside , then without .
The Vitreous was small in Quantity , considering the Largeness of the Eye ; the Choroides was entirely black , without that Variety of Colours at its Bottom , which is common to most Brutes .
The fore-part of the Sclerotica , where it is annexed to the Cornea , was bony , consisting of 15 bony Scales joined one to another , so as to make one circular Bone round the Cornea .
As for a more particular Description , I refer to the Anatomical Account given by the Royal Academy at Paris , in their Natural History of Animals , and to Vallisueri , Professor at Padua , his Notomia del Struthio .
References to the Figures .
Fig. V. Shows the upper Part of the Thorax , the Sternum being removed , with the Heart and Liver and neighb'ring Parts , in their natural Situation .
A A. The Membranous Diaphragm , in which are observed several distinct Cavities .
aa a. The Ligament that suspends the Diaphragm .
b b. The Ribs .
B. The Heart .
C C. The two Lobes of the Liver immediately above the Heart .
c c. The Brachial Artery .
d. The Vein .
e e. Vena Cava .
f. A Gland , on the Brachial Artery .
g g. Part of the Aspera Arteria .
h h. Part of the Oesophagus .
i i. Two Muscles arising from the Sternum , and inserted into the Aspera Arteria .
Fig. VI .
The inferior Part of the Thorax , the Heart and Liver being removed .
AA A. The lower Part of the Diaphragm , immediately covering the Lungs .
B B , &amp;c. Eight strong fleshy Muscles arising from the Ribs , and inserted into the Diaphragm , forming a Cavity for the Heart and Liver .
cc c. The Ribs .
D. The descending Trunk of the Aorta .
E E. The left Lobe of the Lungs freed from the Diaphragm .
F. Part of the Aspera Arteria .
Fig. VII .
Part of the Globe of the Eye .
a. The Cornea .
b b. The Ciliary Ligament .
cc c. The fore-part of the Sclerotica , composed of 15 bony Scales .
Fig. VIII .
The back-part of the Globe .
aa a. The back-part of the Sclerotica .
bb b , &amp;c. The seven Muscles .
cc c. The eighth and ninth ; the Tendon of which ( d d ) goes round the Optic Nerve , f , and is inserted into the Tunica Nictitans .
e e. Membrana Nictitans .
Fig. IX .
The Kidneys with their Vessels .
AA The Kidneys .
B B. Aorta descendens .
C C. Vena Cava .
D D. The Emulgent Arteries .
E E. The Emulgent Vein with its Ramifications .
F F. The Ureters .
G. The Union of the superior and inferior Ureter .

