168 Mr. W. H. Johnson on the Action of [ Jan. 14 ( see Schellbach , 'Die Lehre yon den elliptischen Integralen , ' 1864 , p. 113 ) .
In ( 2 ) , x must be less than / x. The two formulae obtained in the memoir , tanh x + tanh ( x\#151 ; p ) + tanh + + \amp ; c. 2x _j_ 2ir H n si n2z sinh v sin 4z sinh 2v " I- \amp ; c. coth x coth ( x\#151 ; /x ) + coth + ^u ) + \amp ; c. 2x .
7r :--+ _ / i n cot 2 + 4 sin 2z .4 sin 4z e2v_l e4v \#151 ; l \#166 ; j- \amp ; c. , are considered in some detail , and an algebraical proof is added of Abel 's identity ( ' CEuvres , ' t. i. p. 307 ) , a/ $ , vr II .
" On some remarkable Changes produced in Iron and Steel by the Action of Hydrogen and Acids/ ' ' By William H. Johnson , B.Sc. Communicated byProf .
Sir William Thomson , Ltr .
D. , F.B.S. Received December 7 , 1874 .
Some three years ago my attention was called to a remarkable change in some of the physical properties of iron caused by its temporary immersion in hydrochloric and sulphuric acids .
This change is at once made evident to any one by the extraordinary .decrease in toughness and breaking-strain of the iron so treated , and is all the more remarkable as it is not permanent , but only temporary in character , for with lapse of time the metal slowly regains its original toughness and strength .
With a view of ascertaining the cause and degree of this change , I have from time to time made a number of experiments , some of which were carried out on a large scale in an iron-works where quantities of sulphuric and hydrochloric acids are used to remove the coating of oxide from iron wire , preparatory to drawing it .
Many of these experiments have been already described in a somewhat desultory form in the ' Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester ' for Jan. 7th , March 4th , Dec. 30th , 1873 , Jan. 13th , March 10th and 24th , 1874 .
As mentioned before , I first noticed that iron wire became more brittk after a few minutes ' immersion ( half a minute will sometimes suffice ) in strong hydrochloric or dilute sulphuric acid\#151 ; a piece breaking after being bent once on itself , while before immersion it would bear bendlUf on itself and back again two or three times before breaking .
But perhaps the most remarkable phenomenon was , that if , while still hot fijN the effort of breaking , the fractured part was wetted , it appeared to froth , 375 .
] Hydrogen and Acids on Iron and Steel .
169 pious bubbles of gas being given off from the whole surface of the acture for 30 to 40 seconds , or even longer , making the water on the actured surface appear to boil violently .
This frothing is increased by iy thing that augments the heat produced by fracture ; in fact it is acessary that the fracture be more or less warm to cause the escape of ibbles ; for if the wire be nicked and broken short without generating lie heat , few or no bubbles will be seen .
By further experiment I found at other acids , such as acetic , had the same effect on iron as those first sed ; and it became evident that any acid which liberates hydrogen by s action on iron is able to produce them .
Nitric acid , which under iual conditions does not liberate hydrogen by its action on iron , is , howler , without effect .
The frothing , the diminution of toughness , and all her changes caused by immersion in acid are , as a rule , only temporary ; \gt ; r after an exposure to a temperature of about 16 ' C. for three days , or t 200 ' C. for half a day , the wire will be found to have regained its ori-nal toughness , and no bubbles , or any sign of evolution of gas , will be ien , as before , on moistening the fracture .
The bubbles also cease to be sible long before the wire has recovered its original toughness or elas-city .
Immersion in water , particularly if warm , hastens the restoration i toughness , and numerous bubbles may be seen to arise from the iron hen first immersed .
If a little caustic soda , or other alkali , be added to le water in which the iron is laid , its recovery is still further hastened , s it neutralizes a film of acid which seems to adhere to the surface of all on which has been attacked by acid .
It seems at first remarkable that steel does not froth when fractured 'ter immersion in acid , under the same conditions as will produce a vio-nt evolution of gas with iron ; and yet the action of acids on steel is tore rapid , more marked , and more permanent than on iron .
The decrease l toughness is such that a piece of steel which , previous to immersion i hydrochloric or sulphuric acid , would stand bending on itself and back vo or three times , will break short off like a pipe-stem when bent .
So reat is the influence of acid , in fact , that 10 minutes ' immersion in dilute llphuric acid will sometimes cause a coil of highly carbonized tem-ered cast-steel wire to break of itself into several pieces while in the quid .
The amount of carbon in the steel appears , moreover , to be connected ith the action of acid ; for in mild Bessemer steels , containing about .20 to 0-25 per cent , of carbon , the change is a very little more marked lan in iron , even frothing being apparent after prolonged immersion , fith an increased percentage of carbon the action , however , is more larked and of longer duration .
Half an hour 's immersion in hydro-^ lloric acid will make a piece of steel containing , say , 0*60 per cent. E carbon break with a much darker-coloured fracture , and render it so rittle that no amount of exposure to the air or heat will ever completely estore it .
On hardened and tempered steel the decrease in toughness p 2 Mr. W. H. Johnson on the Action of [ Jan. 14 produced by immersion in acid is greater and more rapid than with the same steel in a soft state .
Suspecting that the absence of frothing on the surface of steel after immersion in acid might arise from the bubbles of gas given off being so small as to be invisible to the naked eye , I examined the moistened fracture of a piece of steel under a microscope with a power of 250 diameters .
My expectations were fulfilled , for numbers of minute bubbles were seen to rise from parts of the moistened fracture .
It appears that the fibrous and open structure of iron allows any gas which has been occluded in its substance to pass more easily to the surface of the fracture than will the close , unfibrous , homogeneous structure of steel ; consequently the evolution of gas will not be so rapid with steel as with iron .
Moreover the fracture of steel presents an almost infinite number of small points , all favourable to the rapid evolution of small bubbles invisible to the naked eye .
Iron wire , on the other hand , breaks with a fibrous mossy fracture , which will retain the small bubbles until they have grown sufficiently large to be visible to the naked eye .
Hence the frothing in iron and its absence in steel .
The following experiments were made to ascertain if there was any appreciable increase in weight in iron which frothed over the same iron when in its usual state .
The pieces of iron and steel wire , after immersion in acid , were well washed in cold water , and when dry weighed , this being the weight when the metal contained the gas .
Subsequently they were-heated several hours in an oven to restore them as far as possible , and again weighed .
The result of the last weighing , in every instance , must always have been a little too large , as it was found impossible to prevent a thin film of rust forming on the surface of the metal when being heated in the oven .
Notwithstanding this , the results showed in every case a gain in weight after immersion in acid .
After five hours ' immersion in acid the average gain in weight for mild steel , charcoal-iron , and common iron was in Hydrochloric acid ... ... ... ... *028 per cent. Sulphuric acid ... ... ... ... . .
*036 " The steel gained considerably the most\#151 ; a result well worthy of notice ; for we shall see that , the tensile strain and elasticity of steel are far more affected by the presence of absorbed hydrogen than iron under like conditions\#151 ; probably in part because more gas is occluded by steel than iron ( a conclusion which the greater increase in weight of steel , in comparison with iron , bears out ) , and in part owing to the different molecular structure of steel .
I hope at some future time to ascertain , if possible , if this gain in weight is entirely due to occluded hydrogen , or whether also to absorption of acid to a greater or less extent .
Having examined in detail some of the effects of immersion in acid Hydrogen and Acids on Iron and Steel .
175 .
] uon iron and steel , we will now more closely consider them with the eject of discovering the cause .
Et might at first sight be thought that the frothing could be explained c the supposition that by the action of acid , iron is thrown into what r.y be called the " active state , " in opposition to the so-called passive site caused by nitric acid , and that in this " active state " it is able to cjompose water at the ordinary temperature , forming oxide of iron and Ibbles of free hydrogen .
The facts , however , do not bear out this teory , as the bubbles are still seen if oil be employed instead of water ; \#171 ; d no matter how numerous the bubbles , the closest examination fails t show any formation of oxide .
Again , the frothing is greater from the lig end than from the short end of the piece of wire , whereas , if due to ( idation , it should be the same at both ends .
Now the following facts make it certain that hydrogen is either the sole \lt ; use of the changes produced in iron by some acids , or is inseparably mnected therewith:\#151 ; 1st .
Only those acids which evolve hydrogen by their action on iron loduce any change in iron and steel , nitric acid ( which does not lerate hydrogen except under particular conditions ) having no effect .
2nd .
It is difficult to collect the bubbles which form the froth on the listened fracture of a piece of iron in sufficient quantity for analysis ; it by putting a coil of wire , previously steeped in acid , into hot water ider a bell-jar , the bubbles of gas evolved by the iron may be collected , d will be found to bum with the characteristic flame of hydrogen .
Hence it is probable that iron and steel , when placed in hydrochloric , lphuric , or other acid , absorb some of the nascent hydrogen generated the action of the acid , thus forming what , for lack of a better term , ay be called an alloy* of iron and hydrogen .
This alloy may be corn-red to that formed when zinc is amalgamated with mercury ; and just in process of time the mercury disconnects itself from the zinc , ipearing in globules on its surface , so hydrogen gradually disengages lelf from the iron\#151 ; a movement which is greatly facilitated by heat , as natural to expect .
The analogy may be carried still further ; for as amalgamated zinc is ade brittle in consequence of the pores or interstices between the mole-iles of the metal being filled up by mercury , motion of one molecule over Lother being then impeded , so in like manner iron becomes brittle when 3 pores are filled up by condensed hydrogen gas ; and naturally , when te hydrogen or mercury is driven out of the molecular interspaces , ovement of the molecules on one another is less impeded , and hence the 'rmer toughness or elasticity is restored .
Nor is amalgamated zinc the only analogous case ; for the following markable experiment lends further probability to the theory , by show-ig how rapidly the absorption of zinc by iron may take place , attended * By the term alloy I mean a solution of one metal in another .
172 Mr. W. H. Johnson on the Action of [ Jan. 14 } with similar results , as regards increased brittleness , to those which accompany the absorption of hydrogen .
It also shows how rapidly , by a slight change of temperature , zinc may be disengaged from the iron , thereby causing it to regain its former toughness .
A piece of galvanized iron wire , of good quality , such that when cold it could be bent several times on itself and back again before breaking , was raised to a red heat so quickly that the coating of zinc was melted and only a small portion vaporized .
On attempting to bend it whilst still red-hot , it broke off sharp , offering very little resistance to fracture .
The fracture was of a uniform blue-grey colour , as though the zinc had penetrated into the interior of the iron .
When cold , the same piece broke with all its former toughness and with a long fibrous fracture .
The wire was again heated till the coating of zinc was completely vaporized , and then it was found to be so tough that it was impossible to break at a red heat .
Wire in red-hot molten zinc will often break short , though the part out of the metal remains quite tough .
It is remarkable that this experiment will not succeed with all kinds of iron , some not being made thus " red short " by zinc .
By way of testing the theory that occluded hydrogen is the cause of the change in the properties of iron after its immersion in acids , the writer determined to dispense with acid altogether , and endeavour to produce the same result by subjecting pieces of iron to the action of nascent hydrogen .
" With this view two pieces of iron wire *07 inch diameter were connected respectively with the zinc and copper plates of a battery of 80 Daniell 's cells , and immersed in a vessel of Manchester town 's water at a distance of 1 inch apart .
On closing the current , bubbles of hydrogen were given off from the wire connected with the zinc plate of the battery , but none from the wire connected with the copper plate , the oxygen liberated there apparently forming oxide of iron , which in 12 hours formed a muddy deposit at the bottom of the vessel .
After 24 hours the surface of the wire connected with the zinc plate was unchanged ; but on moistening the fracture bubbles were given off , just as if it had been immersed in acid .
The other wire , though much oxidized and eaten away , did not give off bubbles when broken , and had not become brittle .
" A variety of experiments made in the same way with pieces of wire varying from 3 to 20 inches long , and immersed 5 to 24 hours in water , yielded similar results .
It was found , however , that when the wire connected with the zinc plate was of steel , no bubbles were visible to the naked eye on wetting the fracture with the tongue , precisely as in the case of steel after immersion in acid .
Twenty-four hours in a warm room restored the iron to its original state , and no bubbles were then seen on breaking and moistening the fracture .
" The water in the last experiments was then replaced by an aqueous solution of caustic soda , when , after two hours , the moistened fracture of Hydrogen and Acids on Iron and Steel .
175 .
] k t ) wire connected with the zinc pole of the battery was found to bubble , v 'kenty-two hours ' longer immersion , the battery working all the time , eised the bubbles to be more abundant ; the toughness of the wire his also diminished and its surface blackened .
The wire at the jjsitive pole was , however , unchanged , either on the surface or in i tighness " * .
From this we see that not only is acid not indispensable for the pro-i ection of , at all events , the major portion of these changes in iron , but id latter can be equally well produced in an alkaline solution .
The apparatus refraining unchanged , the soda was next replaced by drochloric acid , 1*20 sp. gr. On then immersing the iron-wire elec-odes for only 2 or 3 seconds , the negative electrode , where hydrogen us given off , was found to froth freely when the fractured extremity was ' ; tted , as much , in fact , as after 15 minutes ' immersion when the cur-:nt was broken .
Half an hour 's immersion failed to produce any similar ange on the positive electrode where no hydrogen was liberated .
The : sense of effect on the positive electrode is all the more'remarkable , as a see of wire of exactly the same quality , and immersed an equal time in Ijne shme liquid , but unconnected with the battery , had become brittle ; d frothed when broken .
It thus appears that neither oxygen nor chlo-i ae are , under these conditions , occluded by iron , or if occluded , that [ ley produce no sensible change in its physical properties .
| Nascent hydrogen having been shown to produce these effects , a trial Tis next made to ascertain if any similar change could be produced in iron Sr leaving it in an atmosphere of hydrogen gas .
With this object a glass be in diameter was filled with pieces of bright iron wire in dia-\#163 ; eter , and a current of hydrogen passed through for periods of 1 , 2 , and ft hours respectively , but without any perceptible change in the wire .
The fores were then placed in a bottle three fourths full of water , and hydrogen I ade to bubble violently through the water for an hour , but still without i ty effect .
It would thus appear that hydrogen is only occluded in the \gt ; iscent state by iron in the cold .
Possibly , however , absorption may ke place if the surfaces are chemically clean .
The late Dr. G-raham , in i s valuable papers on the occlusion of hydrogen , showed , several years 'o , that when red-hot iron , palladium , or platinum are allowed to cool in i atmosphere of hydrogen , this gas ' is occluded by them in large quan-t ty ; and in the 'Proceedings of the Poyal Society , ' 1868 , xvi .
p. 422 , he !
entions that the best way of charging any of these metals with hydrogen \lt ; to make the metal act as the negative electrode in acidulated water for f battery of 6 Bunsen 's cells\#151 ; a fact unknown to the writer when he made Kcperiments .
I Though the absorption of hydrogen by iron is no doubt the cause of the il othing and diminution of toughness attendant on the immersion of iron | .
hydrochloric and sulphuric acids , there are some phenomena which * Proc. Lit. and Phil. Soc. Manch .
1874 , p. 130 .
Mr. W. H. Johnson on the Action of [ Jan. 14^ cannot be explained by it alone , but which seem to show that the occlusion of hydrogen is accompanied by the absorption of a minute portion of the acid by the pores of the iron .
In proof of this the following well-established facts are adduced1st .
Iron much sooner regains its natural state after immersion in hydrochloric than in sulphuric acid , though at first both may have equally affected it , as judged by diminution of toughness .
It may be thought that some portion of the less volatile sulphuric acid adhering to the surface of the iron , even after prolonged washing , will account for it .
This cannot be the case however ; for the wire may not only be repeatedly washed in water , but even coated with lime-water , dried , and finally reduced in diameter two thirds by drawing several times through a steel die , processes which must surely remove any surface-coating of acid ; and yet it will take longer to recover its original toughness if cleaned in sulphuric acid than in hydrochloric acid .
2nd .
The pieces in the last experiment immersed in hydrochloric acid will become spotted with rust on the surface some days before those immersed in sulphuric acid .
If the supposition that acid is absorbed by the iron be correct , this is only what we should expect ; for it is only natural to suppose that the most volatile acid , viz. hydrochloric , will come to the surface first .
We know , moreover , that water can by great pressure be forced through considerable thicknesses of cast iron .
Why , then , should not a liquid pass into the pores of wrought iron ?
As further proof of the presence of acid in iron , I have found that blue litmus-paper was slightly reddened when moistened by a drop of water which had been carefully placed on the fracture of a piece of iron .45 " in diameter , previously immersed in sulphuric acid several hours , and then washed in water .
The drop of water in this case did not moisten the sides of the fracture , where some trace of acid might be present .
The occlusion of hydrogen by iron when immersed in acid solutions enables us satisfactorily to account for some of the difficulties experienced in depositing copper , silver , tin , or other metals from their solutions in acid in electrotyping or otherwise .
G-enerally any coat of appreciable thickness slowly shells off , leaving the surface of the iron bare in places , and so making the coating of no avail as a preventive of oxidation .
The cause is obvious ; the hydrogen occluded whilst the iron is being cleaned in a bath of vitriol or hydrochloric acid , and subsequently imprisoned by the coat of metal , must escape , and in so doing forces its way out , loosen-mg or carrying away some portion of the superficial covering of the metal- , however , the iron , after being cleaned in acid , is boiled in caustic-soda so ution , a process which effectually expels the occluded hydrogen , a eoat-mg o copper or other metal may then be electrically deposited which will not shell off in the least .
This is actually being done in practice ; and Hydrogen and Acids on Iron and Steel .
875 .
] rge numbers of iron articles are now coated with a covering of copper \gt ; ur thousandths of an inch in thickness .
In connexion with this subject , I wish to refute a statement made by rofessor Reynolds , in a paper read before the Lit. and Phil. Society of tanchester , Feb. 24th , 1874 , an abstract of which appeared in the Journal of the Chemical Society/ June 1874 , p. 546 , and other journals , he ' Professor states that I did not attribute the frothing of iron after mersion in acid to the escape of hydrogen , but to the action of acid , n my first paper on this subject ( Proc. Lit. and Phil. Soc. Manchester , i. 80 , 1873 ) the following passage occurs :\#151 ; " It seems probable that a art of the hydrogen produced by the action of the acid on the iron may e absorbed by the iron , its nascent state facilitating this .
And when the ron is heated , by the effort of breaking it , the gas may bubble up through the moisture on the fracture .
" This shows that in my first paper I com-rehended the true nature of the phenomenon .
Change produced in the breaking-strain and ultimate , elongation of iron and steel by hydrogen occluded in it after immersion in hydrochloric and sulphuric acids .
In the earlier part of this paper some few of the changes in the pro-Arties of iron produced by occluded hydrogen have been examined .
The legree of this change it has not always been possible to determine .
In the : as of the diminution of toughness , for example , no exact and easily tpplied test has yet been devised by which we can obtain with precision numerical result expressing the relative toughness of any two samples ; :onsequently we must be content with less definite results .
This difficulty s fortunately not met with in the examination of the change in elasticity and tensile strength ; for the breaking-weight and maximum elongation )f any number of samples can be pretty easily ascertained , with great tccuracy , and numerically expressed , thus making comparison easy .
Bearing in mind the numerous uses of iron and steel , and the proba-bility that at times hydrogen may be occluded in them , altering their strength in a way little anticipated , it seemed of some importance to determine these changes\#151 ; and the more so , as any experiments of this kind could not fail to throw some light on the molecular arrangement of the metal in different qualities of iron and steel , a subject in itself of much interest .
With this object upwards of 350 experiments have been made at various times with a very accurate machine , by which any weight could be brought to bear on the wire to be tested without the least jar a very important point , though difficult of attainment , in experiments on tensile strength .
The elongation at any moment could also be easily read off .
The length of the pieces tested was in all cases the same , viz. 10 inches between the dies , and the temperature at the time of experiment about 16 ' C. I mention these points , as any variation in the length or tempe- Mr. W. H. Johnson on Action of [ Jan. 14 rature of the pieces tested will alter the result considerably .
In order also to obviate , as far as possible , errors arising from the irregularity and absence of perfect homogeneousness of structure , even in the most carefully prepared iron and steel , the number of tests has been multiplied as much as possible and the mean only given .
] The mode of experiment was as follows :\#151 ; After immersion in acid , the pieces were wiped and then tested , this giving the tensile strain and elasticity when containing occluded hydrogen ; subsequently they were heated on hot plates or in ovens , as the most ready method of expelling the hydrogen , to a temperature considerably below that required to anneal them ; and when cold , the breaking-strain \amp ; c. of the iron which had now recovered its natural state , was again ascertained by testing .
It might be thought that tests of iron in its natural state could be best made by experimenting on it before immersion in acid .
Results so obtained cannot , however , be fairly compared with tests of the same piece made after immersion in acid , as the action of the acid somewhat reduces the diameter of the iron .
The following results are the means of 30 tests made on annealed and bright iron wire respectively\#151 ; first , after being one hour in hydrochloric acid , and , secondly , after being heated 12 to 48 hours to drive off the hydrogen .
Break- ing- strain .
Mean error in breaking-strain .
Elongation .
Mean error in elongation .
Number of experiments of which each result is mean Annealed iron wire !
when containing H ... j 100 per cent. \#177 ; 1-16 per cent. 20-5 per cent. \#177 ; 112 121 Annealed iron wire , 1 100-487 H expelled J .
\#177 ; 137 21-3 \#177 ; 1-71 121 Bright iron wire when 1 containing H J 100 \#177 ; 2-57 2 \#177 ; 0-66 3 J Bright iron wire , H1 100-274 expelled j \#177 ; -47 2-83 +0-64 3 1 Thus the tensile strain of annealed iron wire appears to be affected to twice the extent that bright wire is by immersion in acid for same length of time .
The reverse is the effect on the elongation .
Longer immersion in acid causes the iron to take up more hydrogen , and makes the change much greater , as the following experiments show.-enoting by 100 the breaking-strain of bright charcoal-iron wire after 12 hours immersion in very dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid , and su sequent 5 hours exposure in air at a temperature of 12 ' , during which un some of the occluded hydrogen must have escaped , then the breakHydrogen and Acids on Iron and Steel .
875 .
] ig-strain of the same , after being 5 days on a hot plate to expel the hy-irogen , - is as follows :\#151 ; Break- ing- strain .
Mean error in breaking-strain .
Elongation of length tested .
Mean error in elongation .
Number of experiments for each result given .
per cent. per cent. per cent. Jr coal-iron wire con-1 ining H occluded in \gt ; 100 \#177 ; 1*33 13 +0-23 6 2 SO* J \reoal-iron wire , H 1 pelled by heat J 106-62 \#177 ; 710 4 \#177 ; 0-33 6 trcoal-iron wire con- ] ining H occluded in | 100 \#177 ; 0-3 1-41 +0-41 6 ircoal-iron wire , HI rpelled by heat .
J 105-35 \#177 ; 1-1 4-6 \#177 ; 0-33 6 The diminution of elongation and breaking-strain caused by occlusion of hydrogen is very marked in these experiments , but is quite equalled by the following experiments on mild steel containing about0*227 percent , carbon .
The wires were allowed to remain in very dilute hydrochloric acid about 5 hours , then , when tested , heated to about 100 ' C. for 12 hours , by which means a portion of the occluded H was expelled .
1 tmealed mild steel 1 1 'ontaining H ... ... ... J !
nnealed mild steel , II1 partially expelled by \gt ; I leat ... ... ... ... ... ..J right mild steel be- .
'ore immersion in iff 01 ... ... ... ... ... .
right mild steel con : raining H ... ... ... ... j | right mild steel H 1 I partially expelled by 1 i aeating 12 hours ... J ifright mild steel , HI j completely expelled \gt ; I by heating 7 days ... J Break- ing- strain .
Mean error in breaking-strain .
Elongation .
Mean error in elongation .
Number of experiments for each result given .
100 per cent. \#177 ; 5 08 per cent. 201 per cent. \#177 ; 0-61 9 104-77 + 3*81 15-4 \#177 ; 1-2 9 104*03 \#177 ; 10*1 1-66 +0-44 6 100 \#177 ; 9-2 2-8 \#177 ; 0-46 6 108*68 \#177 ; 1-5 216 \#177 ; 0-38 6 114-29 + 8-4 3-42 \#177 ; 0-75 6 These experiments show:\#151 ; 1st .
That the tensile strain of steel is diminished by the occlusion of hydrogen , and that as the hydrogen is expelled ( a process of long duration ) Mr. W. H. Johnson on the Action of [ Jan. 14 the tensile strain rises , till eventually it exceeds the original strain before immersion in acid .
2 .
A most unexpected change in the elasticity of steel , the elasticity of the wire being considerably increased by the occlusion of hydrogen ; but when a portion of this hydrogen is expelled by heat , the elasticity , as measured by elongation at the moment of fracture , falls remarkably , as much as 4-7 per cent , in annealed and 0*64 per cent , in bright steel .
When the hydrogen is completely expelled , the elasticity , however , rises , being then greater than before immersion in acid .
The following experiments on hardened and tempered cast-steel wire containing about three times as much carbon as the mild steel , show an extraordinary diminution in the tensile strain when containing occluded hydrogen j this , however , is regained or even surpassed when the hydrogen is expelled by heat .
Break- Mean error Mean error ing- strain .
in breaking-strain .
Elongation .
in elongation .
Steel before immersion ] in acid J \ 123-79 per cent. \#177 ; 2-7 per cent. 216 per cent. \#177 ; 0-27 Steel immersed in ] H2S04 12 hours J 100 +4-9 1-916 \#177 ; 0-416 Steel , H expelled by 1 heating 10 days to from 100 ' to 200 ' ... J j 122-53 \#177 ; 6 09 2-66 \#177 ; 0-55 Steel before immersion ] in H2 SO4 J [ 100-27 \#177 ; 1-28 3-75 \#177 ; 0-25 Steel after immersion ] in H2 SO4 1 hour ... J Steel heated 24 hours 1 i 100 \#177 ; 2-19 3-75 \#177 ; 0-25 to 100'-200 ' , to expel H J \ 105-49 \#177 ; 2-9 2-75 \#177 ; 0-25 Number oi experiment for each result girei The change produced by occluded hydrogen must have an important influence on the stability of all iron and steel structures ; for as the rusting of iron is mainly attributable to the action of the carbonic acid in the air , it is probable that the hydrogen liberated when the acid attacks the metal is occluded by the iron or steel , with consequent diminution of tensile strength and elasticity .
In some cases , where rust has spread very rapidly , the writer has noticed a decided diminution of toughness ; but , as a rule , it is difficult to detect any change , as probably the hydrogen is present in very small quantity ; also when it has reached a certain percentage its tendency to escape from the metal will balance the force of occlusion .
Electric Con .
Several experiments have been made to ascertain if there is any alteration in the electric conductivity of iron wire when containing hydrogen .
575 .
] Hydrogen and Acids on Iron and Steel .
179 Professor Stewart kindly allowed me the use of the Owens College rparatus , with which soma of the following results were obtained:\#151 ; assistance of 6 feet bright charcoal-iron wire=100 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
100 assistance of 6 feet bright charcoal-iron wire after 5 hours in dilute H2 SO= 107-14 , or , allowing for iron eaten away by acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
105*6 esistance of 6 feet bright charcoal-iron wire after 5 hours in dilute HC1= 114*3 , or , allowing for iron eaten away by acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 109*4 The wires were somewhat eaten away by the acid , so allowance had to e made for the increased resistance due to decreased sectional area ; this i made in the column to the right .
About 50 feet of hard bright iron wire , after 24 hours ' immersion in ilute sulphuric acid , gave a resistance of 2*94 ohms , and 2*92 ohms after he occluded hydrogen had been expelled by heat .
The above results , though far from uniform , are sufficient to show that here is an increase in the resistance of iron wire when it contains .ccluded hydrogen .
I hope soon to make further experiments on this ubject .
It is worthy of remark that Professor Graham found the resistance of palladium containing occluded hydrogen was increased about 15 per cent. He also discovered that a palladium wire first elongated yhen charged with hydrogen , and then contracted when the hydrogen vas withdrawn to less than its original length .
The writer has detected i very small and similar change in the length of annealed iron wire mder like condition , but has not yet observed it in bright iron wire , hough he does not despair of doing so .
Diffusion of Hydrogen .
A number of experiments were made by allowing one half of a piece \gt ; f bright iron or steel wire to be acted on by dilute acid , and thus to occlude hydrogen while the other half was protected from this action , with a view of ascertaining if the occluded hydrogen could spread along the interior of the iron .
Great difference was observed in the behaviour of iron and steel ; the fibrous structure of iron wire allows the hydrogen occluded in the part acted on by acid to spread into the other part , distinct traces of hydrogen being observed 17 centims. from the part affected by acid .
The close unfibrous structure of steel , on the contrary , seems to oppose this altogether , it being questionable if the hydrogen spreads 2 to 3 centims. beyond the part immersed in acid .
" When that part of the iron wire which was protected from but still affected by the acid was broken and the fracture moistened , the bubbles of gas arose almost exclusively from the centre of the fracture , while from the part immersed in acid they arose equally from the whole surface , and took less time to attain their maximum .

