126 Mr. 0 .
Thomas .
[ May 16 , the nerve cord .
The cells forming these ridges are continuous with the peritoneal lining of the body wall , and in this region the elsewhere flattened epithelium has become modified to form the ova in the female and the mother-cells of the spermatozoa in the male .
The ridge is thickened at its free end , and here the more mature generative cells are found .
When ripe these dehisce into the body cavity in which they live for some time and increase in size .
The ova found in the ccelomic fluid are oval in outline , their nucleus is very large , and they are surrounded by a thick zona radiata .
Ho ripe spermatozoa are found in the coelom , but their mother-cells exist in various stages of division .
Conclusions.\#151 ; The more important contributions to the anatomy of the Gephyrea contained in the foregoing Abstract are the descriptions of ( i ) the head with the extensible collar , ( ii ) the skeletal structures , ( iii ) the minute anatomy of the nephridia , and ( iv ) the histology of the nervous system and sense organs .
The most important conclusions to be drawn from these facts seem , in my opinion , to confirm those systematic writers who assign Phoronis a position in the immediate neighbourhood of the unarmed Gephyrea .
In addition to the points upon which they lay stress in the general anatomy of these forms , I would point to the close similarity in structure and position of the skeletal tissues in both groups , and the possible homology between the collar in Phym and the extensible calyx which surrounds the head in Phormis , VIII .
" On the Dentition of Or By Oldfield Thomas , Natural History Museum .
Communicated by Dr. Gunther , F.R.S. Received May 8 , 1889 .
[ Plate 2 .
] At the meeting of the 9th of February , 1888 , * Mr. E. B. Poulton communicated to this Society the first discovery of the presence of teeth in Ornithorhynchus , a discovery which naturally awakened extreme interest throughout the scientific world .
This first account was afterwards elaborated into a long and excellent descriptionf of the form , structure , and development of the teeth , and their relationship to the horny plates ( or " cornnles , " as they may be conveniently termed ) which form the functional masticatory organs of the adult animal .
Apart from the valuable histological descriptions , the conclusions put forward in Mr. Poulton 's paper may be briefly epitomised as follows:\#151 ; * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , 1888 , p. 353 .
f ' Quart .
Journ. Microsc .
BoL/ vol. 29,1888 , p. 9 .
1889 .
] On the Dentition of Ornithorliynchus .
127 1 .
Teeth are present , and they are typically mammalian in form and structure .
2 .
They are apparently functionless , being mere persistent rudiments of teeth functional at an earlier stage of the animal 's history , and , judging from the material examined , are absorbed without ever cutting the gum .
3 .
The cornules are developed from the buccal epithelium covering the teeth , and take their first shape from the dental cusps and ridges beneath them .
The grand fact of the presence of teeth in Monotremes , and their mammalian nature , are discoveries on which Mr. Poulton may well be congratulated , but , owing to the extreme youth of his specimens , the inferences placed under the headings 2 and 3 , well founded as they then appeared to be , prove to require some modification .
Thanks to the material before me , I am now enabled to carry forward our knowledge of the development of the teeth in their later stages with somewhat greater certainty , but the fact that this knowledge has not been previously obtained affords a striking instance of our ignorance of the most obvious and easily discovered points in mammalian morphology .
Re-stated according to the present observations , the paragraphs above referred to should be\#151 ; 2 .
The teeth are functional for a considerable part of the animal 's life , cutting the gum as usual , and , after being worn down by friction with food and sand , are shed from the mouth as are the milk teeth of other mammals .
3 .
The cornules are certainly developed from the buccal epithelium , but from that under* and around , instead of over , the teeth , and the hollows in the plates are the vestiges of the original alveoli of the teeth , from out of which the latter have been shed .
The material on which these conclusions are based is as follows :\#151 ; f a.The skull , extracted from the skin , of a young male Ornitho* The idea of epithelium under a tooth seems at first sight an absurdity , since of course the tooth is originally formed under the epithelium , and cuts through it on being exserted .
In this case , however , as a later stage , the epithelium appears to push its way underneath the tooth , and , as the roots are absorbed , to obliterate the holes in which they were situated , and , after the loss of the teeth , to form the even surface of the hollows in the cornules.\#151 ; May 17 , 1889 .
f Since the above was written , Professor Stewart , of the College of Surgeons , lias discovered a set of teeth in a specimen in that museum .
Of these teeth , ten instead of eight in number , he is now preparing an account .
Many details will be found there as to the development and histology of the teeth and cornules that could not be made out in the Museum specimens .
I must at the same time express my obligations both to Professor Stewart and Mr. Poulton himself for much advice and assistance in making out the history of the teeth and cornules.\#151 ; May 17 , 1889 .
Mr. 0 .
Thomas .
[ May 10 , rhynchus just over a foot in total length , and therefore probably about one-third grown .
b. That of a young female preserved in spirit , slightly smaller , hut , as being a female , in rather a later stage of development than a. This skull is just 65 mm. in basal length .
Skull a was unfortunately cleaned before any suspicion arose that it was of such special interest , and in the maceration , the teeth , with the exception of those on the left side of the mandible , fell out and have had to be replaced , so that there is a slight element of uncertainty as to their exact positions.* In this skull , both above and below , we find on each side two'f ' large and completely calcified teeth ( B and 0 of Mr. Poulton 's figures and descriptions ) , surrounded and separated from each other by a narrow rim of indurated epithelium , which evidently had been ( as is proved by specimen b ) continuous with the ordinary lining epithelium of the mouth .
Beneath the teeth are separated from the bone by an incomplete layer of the same material .
The teeth themselves ( Plate 2 , figs. 1 and 2 ) are broad , flat , and low-crowned .
.The upper ones have each two high , conical , internal cusps , from which minute ridges run downwards and outwards to the outer borders of the crowns , where the edge is peculiarly crenulate rather than cuspidate , in the ordinary sense of the word .
On the whole , the anterior and posterior upper teeth are essentially similar to one another , except that the former are narrower , and their outer edges are less markedly crenulated .
In the lower jaw there is a greater difference between the two .
The anterior ( fig. 2 ) is triangular in outline , its longest side is placed antero-externally , and its anterior and postero-external angles have each a high pointed cusp , if ridged on its internal aspect , while the posterior and internal borders are indistinctly crenulated .
The posterior tooth is broadly quadrangular in outline , with a projecting antero-intemal angle .
As in the corresponding tooth above , there are two cusps on one side , and a series of crenulations on the other , but they are of course reversed , the cusps being external and the crenulations internal .
The cusps are high , and connected with transverse ridges running across towards the internal border .
The crenulations on the internal border are more numerous in the present specimen than in that figured by Mr. Poulton , there being nine instead of five minute projections .
S * This doubt is dispelled by an examination of the College of Surgeons specimen , in which the teeth correspond precisely with those of the British Museum skull as now placed.\#151 ; May 17 , 1889 .
+ Three on each side below in the College of Surgeons specimen.\#151 ; May 17 , 1889 .
X These are evidently the two cusps shown commencing to calcify in Mr. Boulton 's figure .
( Plate II , fig. 16 , B , a.o.o. and p.o.e. ) S A considerable amount of individual variation is to be expected in the case of 1889 .
] On the Dentition of Ornithorhynchus .
On their under surfaces the teeth are rough , and show traces of the presence of minute roots , which have apparently been already partly absorbed.* The actual dimensions of the teeth are as follows:\#151 ; Upper anterior .
" posterior Lower anterior " posterior Length .
Breadth .
4-0 mm. 2'3 mm 40 " 2-6 " 3'5 " 3-2 " 4-2 " 27 " Turning now to specimen b , we find that it presents a most interesting state of affairs , although had the animal lived but a day or two longer , all its interest for our present purpose would have vanished , for it has all but completed the process of shedding its teeth .
On opening the month there was seen the usual set of hollows , surrounded by hardened epithelium ( fig. 3 ) , characteristic of the first stage in the development of the cornules .
Two large hollows were to be seen on each side of each jaw , and a minute additional one in front above , and behind below , these hollows being of course afterwards the concavities on the surface of the cornnles .
The hollows were all filled up nearly level with the surface with bits of earth and sand , and fragments of food .
On cleaning this out bit by bit , twot of the eight large hollows were found to contain something in addition , and a close examination proved that this something was in each case a worn-down tooth , reduced to about the thickness of paper , and with all the outlines worn off .
These remnants of teeth were quite unattached , coming away freely , and would evidently very soon have fallen out of their own accord .
No epithelium was over them , but all that surrounding and beneath them was commencing to indurate and thicken , in order to form what would later have been the cornule .
These two specimens , therefore , prove the contentions put forward above ; a shows that the teeth are functional , completely calcified , and placed as usual close to the bone ; b that , after being worn down by genuine use , they are shed from the hollows in the surface of the cornules , which grow up beneath and around instead of being formed above them .
The specimens examined by Mr. Poulton were all from animals far younger than in the case of those now described ; so far younger , in fact , that instead of being at , or nearly at , their furthest organs in such a state of decadence as are the teeth of , a view that is borne out by the marked differences between the teeth now described and those of the College of Surgeons specimen.\#151 ; May 20 , 1889 .
* This suggestion is confirmed by Professor Stewart 's specimen , in which the teeth have well-defined roots.\#151 ; May 17 , 1889 .
t The anterior right and the posterior left of the upper jaw .
VOL. XLvi , K Mr. 0 .
Thomas .
[ May 16 , point of development , as was then not unnaturally supposed , they were merely commencing to undergo calcification within the tooth-capsule , just as would have been the case with those of any other young mammal .
But in some ways the point that is of most importance in the discovery of fully-developed Monotrematous teeth is the fact that for the purpose of comparison with those of other mammals , a comparison to which of late great attention has been directed , we have now available perfect calcified teeth , of a size sufficient for inspection with the naked eye , and very far superior to anything that figures compiled from microscopic sections can possibly be .
Such a comparison I would have willingly now made , but unfortunately the most careful search^ among other animals , fossil and recent , mammalian and reptilian , fails to reveal any teeth quite corresponding to those of Ornithorhynchus .
But , nevertheless , their study inclines one more and more to believe in the correctness of Professor Cope sf ingenious suggestion as to the Monotrematous , or , as I should prefer to say , Prototherian , nature of the Mesozoic* Multituberculata .
These animals , long looked upon as Diprotodont Marsupials , have of late been much studied in America , S where large numbers of them have been found .
Many of them ( e.g.9 Bolodon , Allodon , Ptilodus , and , especially , the best known of all , Microlestes and Plagiaulax ) have molar teeth which are broad and low-crowned , and which have a series of cusps running around their edges , so that each tooth has two rows of cusps corresponding in a general way to the cusps on one side and the crenulations on the other in the teeth of Ornithorhynchus .
A figure of one of the molar teeth of Microlestes is given ( fig. 5 ) to show how far it resembles those of the living form .
Still it must be insisted that the resemblance between the Multituberculate- and the Ornithorhynchus-teeth is of the most general character , and that the two are certainly widely separated genetically , even if we do admit that they appear to possess a relation- # In this search I have had the advantage of the assistance of Mr. E. Lydekker and Mr. Gr .
A. Boulenger .
+ 4 Amer .
Nat. , ' vol. 22 , 1888 , p. 259 .
Professor Seeley 's remarks in 1879 { 'Quart .
Journ. Greol .
Soc. , ' vol. 35 , p. 456 et seq. ) on the relationship to the Monotremata presented by a Mesozoic humerus and femur assigned either to JPhascolotherium or Amphitherium do not touch the question , since neither of these animals are Multituberculata , both belonging to the Polyprotodont division of the Mesozoic mammalia.\#151 ; May 17 , 1889 .
X The Eocene Neoplagiaulax , Lemoine ( Paris , ' Soc. Greol .
Bull .
, ' vol. 77 , o. 249 ) , also belongs to this group , and has teeth that present a certain resemblance to those of Ornithorhynchus .
Compare Plate V , fig. 3 , and YI , figs. 17-19 , of that work with the figures now given .
S See papers by Cope , Marsh , Osborn , Scott , and others* Oldfield Thomas .
f. 4.x 4 Proa Roy .
So c. Lit'h.\amp ; Imp .
Camb .
Sci. Inst. Co. 1889 .
] On the Dentition of Ornithorhynclius .
ship nearer to each other than to any other known groups of mammals .
In any case , since the form and structure of the teeth are of necessity the chief means of determining the evolutionary history of the Mammalia , the discovery now made , in giving us genuine modern Monotrematous teeth to work from , provides one of the most important aids to the elucidation of the systematic position of these anomalous mammals that has yet been obtained .
Finally , it may be noted that the absolute continuity of the epithelium with the developing cornule , combined with the presence of such well-developed calcified teeth , proves again , if after Mr. Poulton\s paper further proof is needed , that the view* as to the cornules being degenerated true teeth is wholly untenable .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 2 .
Fig. 1 .
Left upper teeth of Ornithorhynchus ( x 5 ) .
Drawn from specimen a ( see supra ) ; the rim of indurated epithelium still present .
2 .
Left lower teeth ( x 5 ) .
3 .
Left side of palate of specimen b , showing ( a ) the empty anterior alveolar hollow , ( b ) the worn-down posterior tooth not yet shed , and ( c ) the elevated rims of epithelium that would later have formed the walls of the cornules .
4 .
The same in the lower jaw , but here all the teeth have been shed : c as in 3 .
5 .
Molar tooth of Microlestes , much magnified .
6 .
Series of diagrammatic sections showing development of tooth and cornule.f a. Tooth ( \#163 ; ) still in capsule below gum ; e , epithelium .
This sketch is taken from one of Mr. Poulton 's figures of the early stages of the teeth .
b. Tooth just before eruption .
c. Eruption of tooth and consequent cutting of the epithelium , which commences to thicken at c for the formation of the cornule .
d. Creeping of epithelium underneath tooth , until it presses against and gradually causes absorption of their roots .
e. Tooth just before it is shed .
Its roots have been absorbed , and the epithelium has passed right beneath it .
The cornule is now definitely separated ( at x ) from the ordinary epithelium , and its edges are so developed as to overtop the cusps of the tooth .
f. Fully developed cornule .
* Seeley , " Eoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , 1888 , p. 129 .
f These diagrams were drawn up in consultation with Mr. Poulton , so that he is -equally responsible for them with myself .

