]\gt ; Prof. M. F. FitzGerald .
On Flapping Flight of Aeroplanes By lIAUBICE F. FIrzGERALD , Professor of , Queen 's College , Belfast .
Communicated by Professor G. F. FITZGERALD , F.T.C.D. , F.R.S. eceived February \mdash ; Read March 2 , 1899 .
It has been long known , principally through experiments on soaring , that alarge , if not by far the largest , part of the supporting force obtained by birds in regular flight , is probably furnished by upward air pressure on their wings , regarded as planes moving horizontally , with their surfaces slightly lined to the direction of motion .
Langley 's " " Experiments on Aero-dynamics\ldquo ; furnish some numerical data for estimating the power required to sustain an aeroplane of given weight , propelled horizontally by a known force , and he applies these to the determination of the problem whether this could be effected by screw propellers , analogous to those of a ship , actuated by machinery of existing type .
The older mathematical investigation by Navier of the problem of flapping flight , seems to be quite discredited , and , indeed , the results brought out always laboured under the physiological difficulty of demanding an amount of horse power per pound of muscle in birds which surpassed , to an almost incredible extent , that available from the better known muscular tissues of other animals .
Ons horse power is 550 ft.-lbs .
per second ; a horse can ordinarily exert about two-thirds of this , and if we take him to weigh about 10 , we get about a third of a ft.-lb .
per second per pound of horse .
A man can work at the rate of about 50 .-lbs .
per second ; this , again , is about a third of a ft.-lb .
per second per pound of man ; and so on with other animals .
But , for the flight of birds , it was made out that from about 30 to 1300 .-lbs .
per second per pound of bird were necessary , which , even after all allowance for higher temperature of their bodies , and large relative mass of wing muscles , compared with those of the limbs of horses , men , \amp ; 0 .
, seemed highly In the following paper an attempt is made to indicate how both progressive and hovering flight may be effected by aeroplanes , attached to a heavy mass , and flapped after the manner of wings , under collditions sufficiently nearly approaching those of Langley 's experiments to iustify the inference , from his figures , of numerical results , not indeed presumably exact , but sufficiently indicating the order of magniof the quantities involved .
The figures given may be taken , commercially speaking , as near enough to the truth to enable us to judge whether we are dealing with pounds or with pence , though not exact enongh to adjust the change out of half-a-crown in paying for onr power .
Let , then , a heavy be sllpposed to be flying through the air On Flight of Aeroptanes .
horizontally , and be supported by wings , consisting of planes of negligible mass , held nearly edgewise to the direction of motion , and moved vertically up and down by some machinery carried by the heavy mass .
Let there be in addition some arrangement of the machinery by which the angle of inclination of the planes or wings to their direction of motion is variable .
We shall suppose the velocity of progression high , and variations of the propelling force small enough for changes of forward velocity to be neglected , compared to the average forward velocity .
This is justified by Langley 's experiments , which show that , for small inclinations of an aeroplane , the direct resistance to forward motion is small compared to the snpporting force .
We shall also , in the first instance , neglect direct air ance on the heavy mass as small compared with } on the aeroplanes ; and , for convenience , we shall call the heavy mass the bird 's body and the attached aeroplane the wings .
The case differs from that of a real bird most notably by the circumstances that the aeroplane in our theoretical case has no mass , whereas , a bird 's wings have one of very sensible magnitude compared with that of its body , and the aeroplane is supposed to be moved up and tively to the mass , as a whole , instead of bein pivoted to it , as a bird 's wings are to its body , besides being of constant area , which wings are not .
Consequently , as before remarked , numerical .
results can only be regarded as indicating the order of magnitude of the quantities calculated , not their exact values .
The inclination of the wings being variable , and their motion compounded of an up-and-down one with a forward one , it is evident that the supporting force may be periodically ) also , and con- sequently the }) 's body will move in a sinuous or vavy path , on the whole zontal , and the stroke of the wings wiIl be the relative motion of wings and body .
If the horizontal velocity be high , and the amplitude of the wing stroke relatively to the air moderate , and the variations in the supporting force no , too great , the path of the bird 's body will be only slightly waved , so that fig. 1 ) taken as , in a eneral sort of way , representing what takes place .
In the same figure , \amp ; c. , represent the plane of the wing at different successive positions , seen edgewise , and \amp ; c. , the corresponding resultant air pressures on it , in direction and Now it is plainly a matter of arrangement of mechanism what thee shall be , as they depend on the angle between the lines , \amp ; c. , and the tangent to the heavy line , marked ' ' Path of wing\ldquo ; at each instant .
Consequently it is worth while inquiring whab are the conditions of adjustment to cause a forward force on an average to be applied to the bird and wings , when the wings are moved up and down by an engine forming part of the bird 's body , when the supporting force is , on an average , equal to the bird 's weight , and the forward Prof. M. F. FitzGerald .
force is , on an average , equal to that required , on an average , to propel the aeroplane at its average inclination .
Observe that the force depends for its magnitude , not on the actual inclination of the wing path at all , but on the angle between that path and the plane of the wing , while its horizontal component depends on both angles , so that although , as long as there is any supporting force , there is a resistance to forward motion along the wing path , there may nevertheless be a forward force acting horizontally on the whole machine , wings and body taken together , as in the first position shown , for instance .
The thing to do , then , is to formulate this in symbols , and for the present purpose it will suffice to make some simplifying approximations to facilitate the work .
We shall then take it that the inclination of the wing path to the horizontal , and the inclination of the plane of the wing to the wing path , are both small enough to assume that for either of them , as well as their sum , the circular measure , the sine , and the tangent do not sensibly differ , and the cosine is unity , for example , for circular measure , sine , tangent , and cosine ; so that , up to this at any rate , we shall not be incurring errors exceeding 5 or 6 per cent. by this assumption .
We shall also assume that for a small angle of inclination of an aeroplane to its path , the resultant air pressure is given by the formula in pounds per square foot , where is velocity in feet per second , and a coefficient , which , according to Langley , is about , and is directed normally to the plane .
This agrees nearly with Du Chemins 's formula at small angles , as pointed out by Langley .
Now let the angle be varied according to the , and being arbitrary constants , being where is the frequency or number of flaps per second , being time in seconds .
Then the normal pressure , , on aplane of area , at forward velocity , inclined at to its direction of motion is .
convenience we shall take the bird 's weight as llb .
, so that , in general , will be , for any other weight , normal pressure in lbs. per lb. of bird , and A is wing area in square feet per lb. of bird .
Let , at any moment , be the height above some datum level of the bird 's centre of gravity , and that of centre of pressure of and suppose that .
Then the slope , , of the wing path is at any moment sensibly supposed to be always a small angle .
On Flapping Flicfht of Aer/ )plancs .
FIG. 1 .
By fig. 1 we sce that if be the vertical supporting force , sensibly , since is supposed small angle ; and if bc the horizontal component of nearly .
This the resistance to forward motion horizont , and the work done against , taking the average rate of working , is ft.-lbs .
per second .
Again , if the bird 's body be at the rate , and the wings at a lcsser rate , , the attached to the body , which oxerts a force , , on the wings , is doing work , so that , when is positive , and positive , the engine does work , and this is to the same work , on the average , that done to overcome the resibtance of the air to the plane taken along its actual path , and is Consequently we get , as a condition for determining some relations among the constants , Another condition arises as follows .
As , the vertical force , is sensibly equal , we have , for the motion of the bird 's body , .
M. F. FitzGerald .
, the bird being 1 lb. weight , and , on intcgration , all terms containing or as factors must vanish , in order for the motion to bs , on an , horizontal .
That conining t as a factor will not vanish unless which fixes , ( B ) and gives pt as there is no with as factor in By differentiation , whence ) Inserting their values in ( A ) for the quantities involved , we get On integration , the only terms that do not vanish give the equation which is a quadratic for , namely , kAVpS ( C ) Taking the integral of one side alone we find . .
( ) Eliminating from these we get If now we draw a curve whose ordinate , , is , and abscissa , , is , we find it to be of the form shown as AB or CD in fig. 1 , with a symmetrical branch below the axis of , not shown in the figure .
On account of the steepness of the first part of the curve CD , that .
Fiight of part of it which extends from to is shown with the scale of abscissae magnified fifty times , as AB , and corresponding curves for are given .
The case taken is when , so that it to flight at 60 feet per second , if the wing area is 1 square foot per pound carried , 30 feet per second with an allowance of 2 square feet per pound , and so on .
The principal to note about the curves are that , in the first place , has a minimum )alue , in this case .-lbs .
per second per pound carried .
This occurs when is infinite , and practi- cally implies that when the rate of flapping is very high , keeping the same stroke , the horse-power required comes very near the mirlimum , , remarkably cnough , the wing becomes , virtually , exactly equi- valcnt to a plane of area , inclined at a constant angle moYing horizontally , as in Langley 's experiments .
This is not accidental , but seems to follow from the that and if be infinite and finite , must vanish , and , consequently , becomes simply .
a , 1899.\mdash ; In the paper as .
read an erroneous statement here followed , to the effect that the mlnimum value of half that got in experiments with a plane at angle It arose from the left-hand side in equation ( A ) , by mistakc , itten j , instead of as given .
The author is inebted to Prof. J. Purser for pointing out the mistake .
The least value of is equal to that of Langley 's experiments .
] Of C0UTSe , as before mentioned , it is not to be taken that the figure .
per second per pound of bird , is here demonstrated to be that which a real bird , with 2 lare feet of wing per lb. of bird , a.l feet per second , would or must exert .
All that is professed to be shown is , that the bird may be able to fly with the of two or three .-lbs .
per second per nd , and that 30 to 1300 are quite nneCeSSnry .
Further , it appears that , within a very large range of the values of , that is frequency of flapping , stroke , and lag of of stroke relatively to phase of bird 's body motion and ting of wing , there may be little comparative variation in the horse-power , between frequency per minute 500 and frequency 250 ( suppos- , there would only be a change of per secortd from to 255\mdash ; scarcely2 per cent. This seems to bear on the explanation of the great ra1lge of variation in the manner of ' use of wings ; some ( as pigeons and ducks ) flapping very fast , others ( as seagulls and heroIls ) flapping but slowly , without any reason for expectin material differences in the rate at which their muscles can give out energy .
are , no doubt , plenty of other reasons , but until experiments .
can be made on planes or other surfaces flapped by pivoting on an axis , numerical data for conditions of calculation agreeing more nearly than those here used with conditions of fact , seem to be wanting .
Another point brought out is that has a minimum value as well as , but has not .
This means that the phass of the wing motion , relatively 10 the twisting of the wing ( on which the angle depends ) is important , and if these are out of beat , so to speak , by more than a certain amount , with a given frequency and stroke , the flight cannot be maintained at all .
The values of which exceed On of mity imply ( on reference to the equation ( pt ) ) that there is a reversed pressure on the wing during part of the stroke , as shown in fig. 1 at the third position , where is directed partly downwards .
This condition is however unfavourable , probably in all cases , to economy of labour , though it may be favourable to forward propulsion .
At all economical rates of working is quite small , that is , the inclination of wing plane to wing path varies but little .
It may also be observed that , for any value of , there are two of , one of which lies close to its least possible value , and the other is very large\mdash ; e.g. , for or about 40 , that a person who was going on observed values of and took to be nearly unity , might easily overlook the small value of and base his estimate of work on the large one .
This is the more likely as the curve of is of the third degree , and the solving of a cubic by a direct process , especially when there are three real roots , is troublesome , and avoided in consequence .
Whether anything of this kind occurred in Navier 's or other earlier investigations , the present writer is unable to say .
Langley says that Navier added the work done , hcrc expressed by the right-hand side of equation ( A ) to that on the other to find the whole .
Why it should have seemed necessary to do this is not clear , for if the wing has no sensible mass , as herc assumed , the pressure of the engine cannot exceed , and no work can be done by a vertically moving engine , except that expressed on the light-hand side of equation ( A ) .
The way in which forward motion is maintained bears some analogy to the process of so-called ' ' invisible\ldquo ; skating , and to screw propulsion , wherein it would be manifestly absurd to add the work done the ship 's resistance to that given by the turning moment applied to the screw , to find the horse-power of the engine .
In fact , the construction of Langley 's whirling table virtually made the aeroplane a portion of a screw propeller with axis vertical , and his coefficient has , bound up in it , the inefficiency of the propeller in ting horse-power of turning coupls into thrust .
Vith regard to the absolute magnitude of the figure as the least value possible for in the case illustrated by fig. 2 , it is of importance to note that this depends on , and has been made on the strength of the equation which again depends on the assumption that the downward acceleration of the body attached to the aeroplane would be , irrespective of the horizontal velocity of the plane , if the angle of inclination of the plane to its path were zero .
Langley 's experiments on the " " Plane Prof. M. F. FitzGerald .
Dropper\ldquo ; seem to show that this is by no means the case , but , unfortunately , he was unable , through uncontrollable circumstances , to determine the proper value , which is some function of the velocity , may possibly be so small as at his highest velocities .
If so which is the minimum value of requires corresponding reduction , and , in the case taken , the scale of is about three times too large , reducing the necessary work to about 1 ft.-lb .
per pound carried or thereabouts .
It is now evident how the energy expenditure of birds may lie within quite reasonable limits , though we cannot , with any approach to accuracy , make the calculations for the design of a flying machine with flapping wings .
We can say it will not in a given case cost a pound an hour for power , but we cannot tell whether it will cost only sixpence , or as much as half-a-crown or three shillings .
To allow for head resistance of the bird 's body some term must be added to the left-hand side of equation ( A ) , which will alter the absolute term of equation ( C ) and under the square root in equa- tion ( E ) so as to increase , and a number of small corrections of other kinds might be made , which , however , considering the roughness of the numerical data we have to go upon , are not worth taking into account .
The justification of the assumptions as to the smallness of and is best exhibited by a numerical example .
Taking then with square feet per pound of bird , and assuming stroke of 1 foot ) we find that if ( about 300 downward strokes per minute , which sea-gulls in regular flight often exceed ) and , Sp , and ; while is , and is The maximum value of is then when This is , the circular measure of nearly .
The maximum value of , the slope of wing path , is ; the circular measure of ; but these do not occur simultaneously .
It wili be found that their sum is a maximum when and is then , the circular measure of ; thus lying well below the limit of suggested in the earlier part of this paper .
The body-path , on integration , and taking and initially , is and the amplitude is foot .
The body , therefore , pursues a simple harmonic path , whose average level is about 5/ 32 inch below the mean level of the wing-path , and whose total rise and fall from crest to hollow is almost 5/ 16 inch .
The relative motion of wing and body does not sensibly differ from that of the wing alone .
The investigation of the question as to hovering is far less satisfactory .
We might assume , for instance , that the centre of pressure of the followed a circular or elliptical orbit , the plane of the wings making a small angle with the tangent to the orbit , and being variable as before , so as to maintain , on the whole , an upward pressure .
If we make this angle , and form the equation On Flapping flight of Aeroplanes .
as before , remembering , however , that though may be assumed small , the angle of slope , , of the wing path , is not , we shall find , if the orbit be taken to be circuIar , where V is the velocity of the motion along the orbit .
In order that may have values similar to those in the of progressive flight , the frequency of must be much higher , twice as fast , or thereabouts .
But there are several considerations which render results of this kind much more unsatisfactory than those previously obtained .
In the first place the motion assumed is very much less like that of a bird 's wing than in the former case , inasmuch as it involves complete revolution of plane of the wing about a horizontal axis in its own plane , , in the second place , the edges of the plane are continually cutting across the eddies , created by their previous motion , in a very different from that in which they interfere with those created in rsssive flight , so that the numerical value of , and the value of the function of V which is put down as 1 in the formula are really unknown , and cannot be inferred from experiments with soaring planes , or even propellers .
We can only expect that the actnal nunlbers will be like those given by Langley 's and other such experiments .
All that can be inferred , therefore , is that , provided a sufficiently high speed of flapping is attainable , we may reasonably anticipate that the horse-power for hovering need not differ very materially from that for progre@sive flight .
Internal stresses in the wings or machinery , due to their inertia , as well as iolo i difficulties connected with velocities of may also come in to limit the rate of flapping , and prevent an equally economical rate of working being attainable in , as in progressive flight .
A considerable of the mere mathematics could have been effected by at once assuming that the arrangement for altering the angle was so contrived as to make the pressure , or its vertical component , , an functionof thetime ; but this has objection that , there being no expressly formulated relation between and or , experimental evidence would be wanting to settle the values of the numerical coninvolved .
In fact , the more the mathematical work is gen ralizod , the less definite do the numerical results become , in the present state of our experimental knowledge , and this must form the writer 's apology for working out , in a mathematically clumsy way , so limited a case of a problem which has been treated already , in a much more powerful and general way , by far abler hands .
For example , Thomso and Tait mention , as an example of motion of a solid in a liquid , the vibratory and irregular movements of such an object as an oyster shell sinking pretty slowly with a swaying motion } thrown flatwise into water .
The rate of expenditure energy necessary to prevent its sinking would , if these motions reibly g)xced , On Flappin .
Flight of evidently practically coincide with the rate at which gravity works , when the rate of sinking is , on an average , uniform , and should be quite small .
The case of hovering flight of a bird is manifestly closely analogous , and that of progressive flight is similarly closely analogous to that of the same oyster shell , or a piece of slate , projected under water and forcibly maintained in a state of rhythmic motion .
The only use of the investigation given in the present paper is to reduce the matter to figures , in a case sufficiently simple to enable us to use numbers supplied by existing experimental results .
[ Note added March 21 , 1899.\mdash ; The error alluded to in the previous note was detected by checking equation and that for to see if the horizontal component of the acceleration was exactly periodic .
Equation ( C ) , as now given correctly , is the condition in question , with the additional information that each side is the work done .
Mr. F. Purser , F.T.C.D. , suggested that the wings as well as the body might be supposed heavy .
The author has examined this point , and finds that , supposing , as before , that the engine , say a cylinder and piston , to whose rod the aeroplane is attached , works vertically , no difference is made in equation .
The force being inclined , has , or may have , a moment about the centre of inertia of the whole machine ; the effects of this should be wholly periodic , but inasmuch as it appears from experiment and otherwise that does not pass through the centre of figure of the plane , and moves about in some way depending on the angle , it would be impossible to test this condition without assuming details of dimensions , \amp ; c. Any actual bird or flying machine , must have some steerin apparatus , capable of correcting disturbances of a rotational kind in both the vertical and the horizontal plane , but its management plainly cannot involve any material alteration in the work to be done .
The author conceives it to be possible , if not highly probable , that the motion in flying is , in respect of direction , unstable .
Small periodic terms may be assumed also to be added to , but lead to nothing up to the order of quantities involved in neglecting the difference between cosine and radius .
]

