II .
" An Account of the two Methods of Reproduction in Daphnia , and of the Structure of the ' Ephippium .
' " By JOHN LUBBOCK , Esq. , F.G.S. Communicated by CIIARLES DARWIN , Esq. , F.R.S. Received December 22 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author describes the male organs and the structure of the Ephippium in the genus Daphnia , and the double method of reproduction by agamic and ephippial eggs .
The author calls the non-ephippial eggs agamic , but it is possible , though not probable , that the ephippial eggs may be agamic also .
In the male Dapania there are two small papillae above the posterior claws , but on the ventral side of the anus , and on these being compressed , two streams of minute rod-like bodies , with movements so gentle as to be scarcely visible , will be seen to issue , one from each papilla .
Nothing similar has ever been observed in the female ; nor has any other sort of spermatozoa ever been met with .
These male organs have never been described before .
The author then proceeds to describe and figure the two sorts of eggs in their earlier stages , which have not yet been mentioned by any naturalist .
The ephippial eggs differ from the agamic in their determinate position and number .
As a general rule , that is to say , in seventeen cases out of twenty-three , the author has remarked that ephippial eggs commence and are developed to a certain point .
The development is as follows .
One of the ovarian cells , always at the posterior part of the ovary , swells a little , and becomes a germinal vesicle ; round it are deposited a number of brownish granules , while the other cells which may at first have existed in the same ovarian mass cease to be visible .
The deposition of dark granules , in thirty-seven cases out of forty , after proceeding to a certain point , ceased , and the embryo egg gradually disappeared .
In the other three cases it increased , and at length formed a dark mass on each side of the intestinal canal .
The author in two cases observed the ephippial eggs pass from the ovary into the receptacle .
The ephippium has been described by Strauss with considerable accuracy , but he has been more or less misunderstood by all subsequent writers on the subject , and no one has explained the homologies or connexions of the inner valve .
The ephippium itself is a locally altered portion of the carapace ; the outer valve of the ephippium being a part of the outer layer of the epidermis , and the inner valve the corresponding part of the inner layer .
In consequence of this arrangement , the inner valve of the ephippium , containing the ephippial eggs , is not attached by the hinge to the outer valve , as has been generally stated , but actually lies at first in the receptacle formed by the new carapace .
The ephippium is cast with the rest of the skin , from which however it soon becomes detached , and continues to form an efficient protection to the eggs until they are hatched .
These eggs probably require to be fertilised , but this fact is not completely proved .
With one exception , whenever the author observed ephippia , he could also find males ; and , generally speaking , the numbers of each were in proportion to one another .
Impregnation is not , however , absolutely necessary to the production of ephippia , as the author has now in his possession three ephippia , formed by isolated females .
It remains to be seen whether young will be developed from these or not .
The early stages of the agamic egg are very similar to those of the ephippial egg , and consist of the enlargement , in the front part of the ovary , of one of the ovarian cells , which then becomes a germinal vesicle , and the deposition round it of granules , with the addition in this case of oil-globules .
This process continues , the other two or three cells which may have existed in the same ovarian mass gradually disappear , and there is thus formed an egg-like mass , consisting of a germinal vesicle , minute dark granules , and large oil-globules .
When the growth is nearly completed , the vitelline membrane is added .
This is at first very delicate , but after deposition in the receptacle soon becomes hard .
The ovarian eggs of Daphnia , as well as those of Cypris , never contain round masses like those of Aphis and Musca ; but after their entry into the receptacle , yolk masses are found , homologous with those present at the corresponding periods in Phryganea* .
The eggs when laid are about 2g0 of an inch in diameter ; they gradually become 2 - , when the vitelline membrane splits and falls off , and the young animal is hatched .
Far , however , from resembling its parent at this time , the young Daphnia is a spherical bag , inside which the formation and development of the new organs is rapidly progressing* .
Instead therefore of undergoing no metamorphosis , the young Daphnia only assumes the wellknown characters of the genus after the first changes of skin .
The author proceeds to compare this phenomenon with a similar one observed by Mr. Spence Bate in Gammarus , by Prof. Huxley in Mysis , by Dr. Cohn in Sphceroplea , in many Annelids , and in the interesting entozoon Monostonum mnutabile .
The young Daphnia attains a length of *025 inch before it leaves the receptacle of the mother , but the length of time during which it remains therein varies according to the temperature .
The author has never met with an exception to the rule noticed by preceding writers , that unisexuality is characteristic of an agamic brood .
It follows from these observations , that the self-fertile Daphnie are certainly true females , and that the reproductive bodies more nearly resemble eggs than gemmae in their origin and development .
Hereafter , however , it may be convenient to give a separate name to those egg-like bodies , which are fertile without impregnation , but for the present they must be called eggs .
The author then gives a list of the instances of Parthenogenesis which , so far as he knows , are recorded among the Articulata .
Finally , he expresses the belief that the careful consideration of these cases , and of the facts now recorded as to Daphnia , and the still more wonderful observations recently detailed by Siebold in regard to Apis ( if these latter are confirmed ) , must surely remove all lingering doubts as to the identity between eggs and buds ; and remarks , that if Prof. Huxley 's definition of " individual " and " zooid " is to be adopted , it will be impossible to assert of any Daphnia or Moth , whether it is the one or the other , and the hive-bee will have to be considered as an hermaphrodite , a species without male individuals .
Under these circumstances , the author suggests that it would be more convenient to continue , as heretofore , to call the individual of any species that which is individualized , even though in this case the individuals of one species will not always be homologous with those of another .

