396 Messrs. R. W. Forsyth and R. J. Sowter .
one takes its place , situated between the other two ( Plate fig. 10 ) .
This band is the most pronounced and the best defiil one in the whole series , and only becomes visible on the phot-graphic plate in excessively dilute solutions , so dilute that cj might say the solution was colourless to the eye when viewed r transmitted light .
Phylloporphyrin and Hcematoporphyrin .
On comparing the spectra of phylloporphyrin and haema-porphyrin in this region , and also those of their hydrochlo'i acid compounds ( Plate 3 , figs. 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 ) , it was found tho hsematoporphyrin gave only a single band , but situated in the sai* position as the double one of phylloporphyrin .
On this point t ; results of my experiments differ from those of Tschirch , who , ; stated above , found in both a single band occupying the same positio In the hydrochloric compounds of hsematoporphyrin , however , single band of the same pronounced character as that in phyllopo phyrin was found , the one in heematoporphyrin , as will be seen fro the figures , being slightly shifted towards the red end of tl spectrum , which is interesting from the fact that just in the San way are the bands in the visible region of the spectrum of the two compounds shifted , this constituting their only spectroscop difference .
In conclusion , my thanks are due to Dr. E. Schunck and Dr. i Marchlewski for the valuable assistance they have given me \lt ; many details in connection with this investigation .
I hope in a further paper to investigate more particularly tl spectroscopic behaviour in the same region of the spectrum of tl yellow colouring matter accompanying chlorophyll in leaves are allied colouring matters obtainable from other sources than the lea for instance , carotin .
" On Photographic Evidence of the Objective Reality of Con bination Tones .
" By R. W. Forsyth , A.R.C.S. , and R. \#171 ; !
Sowter , A.R.C.S. Communicated by Professor RuCKEJ Sec. R.S. Received March 29 , \#151 ; Read May 5 , 1898 .
[ PlATES 6 , 7 .
] In the following paper we propose to describe a series of phoh graphs which prove the objective reality of difference and summatio tones .
The work was suggested to us by Professor Rucker , and wehav used the method of detecting these tones which has been described .\#174 ; Rucker and Edser in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' for April , 18W The Objective Reality of Combination 1e resonator they employed was a tuning fork .
On to one prong othe fork was fixed a mirror , which was made one of a system by vich Michelson 's interference bands were produced .
To the other png was attached a wooden square of larger area , but of the same vight as the mirror .
The fork was then compared with a Konig sndard fork and its frequency adjusted to 64 .
The notes were pduced by a Helmholtz wind siren placed , between a wooden pamidal tube and a large Konig resonator tuned to 64 .
The irrow end of the pyramid was placed about half an inch from the ?
oden square attached to the resonating fork .
Throughout the experiments we used blue light , obtained by rising a beam from an electric lamp through a cell containing an ; umoniacal solution of copper sulphate .
A slit about 2 inches hg and one-twentieth of an inch broad was cut out of a piece of tin-il pasted on glass , and was placed horizontally across the middle of ti bands , so that the bright and dark bands appeared as bright and .
; rk spots respectively .
In our earlier experiments , we took photographs upon flexible film iitened by india-rubber bands to a rotating drum .
A ball shutter , ; ?h as is used in instantaneous photography , was employed .
Working ifnight , after the traffic had subsided , the bands in their normal ( adition were perfectly steady .
On taking a photograph , each Ight band produced a perfectly straight line upon the rotating film , hd the whole picture was made up of a series of parallel straight , les .
i On sounding a 64-fork in the vicinity of the apparatus , the irror \#166 ; 'is set in motion by resonance and thus the bands execute irmonic motions , with a frequency of 64 , about their mean positions , le general appearance as then seen by the eye is a blue blur .
When is blur was photographed by means of the slit and rotating drum , cj obtained a series of sinuous lines .
To prove that the frequency f* these curves corresponded to a note of 64 vibrations per second , we ade observations on the rate of turning of the drum .
The following e some of the actual figures obtained:\#151 ; Circum .
of drum = 31'5 cm .
100 revs , in 19'5 secs .
Wave-length = 2'53 cm .
100 x3T5 K. No. of vibns .
per sec. = 19 5 x 2'53 = ^ V We thus obtained a series of photographs of what may be called \gt ; ie difference and summation curves , which were exhibited in a : 'eliminary communication read by Professor Rucker at the recent eeting of the British Association held in Toronto .
The details of the method now employed are different , and we Messrs. R. W. Forsyth and R. J. Sowter .
venture to think much better suited for obtaining good photogjfyj ; though the drum enabled us to determine the frequency of he oscillation more easily .
When the drum was used , it was inm venient to take more than one photograph on the same film , , \lt ; p moreover , it was impossible to use plates , which in some respects he advantages over films .
Having satisfied ourselves by means of the drum , that the frequevy of the curves we obtained corresponded to 64 , we had recourse a sliding plate arrangement fitted with an automatic shutter .
Wl sliding piece is capable of carrying 3 feet of plate 2 inches in wich , and the shutter is so arranged that any 6 inches of the plate came exposed at will .
With one filling of the slide , it is therefore possile i to take six photographs . .
Our first effort was to obtain photographs of the steady bands win no sounds were produced .
We have taken many of these , \amp ; d reproduce one of them in ( Plate 6 ) fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 shows a photograph taken when a 64 fork was sounds rather loudly , , Fig. 3 shows an extraneous disturbance produced by slamming of a door .
It is evident that the vibrations are componi and , in part at all events , forced .
We then proceeded to obta the difference-tone .
The frequencies of the two notes used Were 23 and 320 , and these were produced as by Rucker and Edser with Helmholtz double wind siren .
The 12 row of holes was tuned t\#187 ; 256-fork , and then to produce the 320-note the 15 row of holes w opened .
Fig. 4 shows a photograph taken when the 256-fork was sour ing , and when the siren was sounding in unison with it , the row of holes being open .
It will be seen that the bands are stead There is a slight vibration present , probably due to the disturban produced by the blowing of the bellows .
Fig. 5 shows a photograph taken immediately after the foregoii one , upon the same plate , and under exactly the same conditions wii the single exception , that the 15 row of holes was opened and tl 320-note therefore sounding in conjunction with the 256 .
W objective reality of the difference-tone is clearly proved .
Th experiment has been repeated on several occasions and with differei notes , and we have obtained many photographs demonstrating tl vibratory motion which is given to the bands by the difference-tom In all cases , we have proved that the separate notes sounding a lot produced no effect upon the bands .
ml Fig. 6 ( Plate 7 ) is another photograph of the effects produced b( a difference-tone .
It will be observed in these two photographs , that although fchj chief effect is that due to the sounding of a 64-note , there is supei ind Sow ter Roy .
Soc. Proc. .
63 , ( i. Courier .
Jioi/ .
tioc .
Proc. , \#171 ; a , Plate 7 .
The Objective Reality of Combination Jones .
399 nosed upon tliis some other disturbance which causes a slight ; arture from the perfect regularity of the curves .
This disturbing ct is probably due to the fact , that , as it is difficult to keep the , .h of the notes given by the siren absolutely constant , they had j arted somewhat from their proper values at the moment when the p tograplx was taken , and thus forced vibrations of a pitch slightly , 'i 3renfc from that of the tuning fork were added to those corresponding ; ts natural period .
laving finished experiments on the difference-tone , we proceeded photograph effects produced by the summation tone .
The two es used were obtained from the 9 and 12 rows of holes of the )er box of the Helmholtz double wind siren .
It is easily seen j fc , to give a summation tone of 64 , the disc must he revolving ( 9 + 12 ) = 3-048 times per second .
To obtain this rate of rotation , used a stroboscopic method .
On the upper surface of the lower of the siren , we affixed a star-like disc with 18 rays , and wed it through slits carried by a fork having a frequency of 27 4 .
Vhen the star appears stationary , the disc is revolving at the sired rate , for 18 X 3*048 \#151 ; 27'4 x 2 approximately .
Ve have taken photographs of the steady bands when the siren has n going at the proper speed , and one set of holes open only .
These exactly like the steady bands obtained in the former cases .
On s nding the two notes together the summation tone is produced , and have photographed it in the manner already described .
Figs. 7 , md 9 show some of the photographs obtained .
n fig. 9 , where the amplitude of the vibration of the bands is ge , the plates used were not sufficiently sensitive to photogiaph m when moving through their mean positions .
" W hen the bands in their extreme position and therefore at rest , the exposuie is ersely proportional to the velocity of the plate .
But when the ids are passing through their mean position , the exposuie is -ersely proportional to the velocity found by compounding the ocity of the plate with the velocity of the bands in a direction at t ; ht angles .
If the amplitude is large enough , this velocity may be great as to render the time of exposure too small to affect the plate , ds phenomenon is slightly noticeable in fig. 5 , and is very well 4rked in figs. 8 and 9 . . .
In conclusion , we wish to thank Mr. Cameron for assisting us taking some of the later photographs , and Mr. Chapman for the lp he has given us in preparing the lantern slides and prints .

