4 .
" On the Variations of the Sulphates and Phosphates in the Urine in Disease .
" By Henry Bence Jones , MI .
D. , F.R.S. The object of the paper is to show whether the sulphates in the urine are increased or diminished in any class of diseases .
The corresponding variations of the phosphates were determined .
The particular conclusions may be thus stated:1 .
In three cases of acute chorea the most remarkable increase was observed in the amount of sulphates in the urine .
In the same cases the quantity of urea was very much increased .
The quantity of urine made in twenty-four hours was not excessively diminished , and the total amount of earthy and alkaline phosphates was below the average amount , sometimes remarkably less than in health .
2 .
In delirium tremens and in other delirium a remarkable increase in the amount of sulphates in the urine was frequently obh served , and the total amount of phosphates was in the same cases occasionally remarkably diminished ; and the resemblance to the state of chorea was still closer , inasmuch as occasionally a very great excess of urea was found in these cases also .
3 .
In acute inflammatory affections of the nervous structures , during the most febrile symptoms , an increase was observed in the amount of sulphates in the urine ; and the total amount of earthy and alkaline phosphates in these diseases was increased in the same proportion as the sulphates were increased .
4 .
In some slight and chronic diseases of the nervous structures no increase in the amount of sulphates in the urine was observed , excepting when sulphate of magnesia had been taken .
5 .
In acute diseases , in which neither the nervous nor the muscular structures were chiefly affected , no increase in the sulphates or phosphates was observed , except after sulphate of magnesia .
6 .
In chronic diseases , in which neither the nervous nor the muscular structures were chiefly affected , no decided increase in the sulphates or phosphates in the urine was observed , except after sulphate of magnesia .
One case of exostosis may be regarded as a doubtful exception to this statement , The genera conclusions areThat in acute chorea , in which the muscles are in excessive action , the sulphates and urea in the urine are greatly increased .
That in delirium tremens the same state of urine is frequently met with when the phosphates are not at all increased .
That in acute inflammation of the nervous structures sulphates and phosphates are both increased in the urine .
That in chronic diseases of the brain , and in other acute and chronic inflammations , no increase of the sulphates is observed except after sulphate of magnesia .
The result is that muscular action increases the sulphates in the urine without increasing the phosphates ; and that inflammation of the brain increases the sulphates as well as phosphates in the urine .

