Numb. 70 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
April , 17 .
1671 .
The CONTENTS .
Extracts of several Letters , containing sundry Inquiries and Experiments about the Bleeding of Trees , especially by the warmth of the Fire ; the Circulation of Sap in Trees ; the Consistence and Quantity of Sap in the respective parts of a Vegetable ; and the Communication of one part of a Plant with another , in relation to the Ascent and Descent of Sap , &amp;c. Some Communications concerning Cider ; and the season of Transplanting .
Observations touching Colours , in order to the Increase of Dyes , and the Fixation of Colours .
An Account of some Books .
I. Theodori Kerckringii M. D. ANTHROPOGENIAE ICHNOGRAPHIA .
II .
PHILOSOPHIA VETERUM , e mente RENATI DESCARTES breviter digestaab Antonio le Grand .
II .
TRAITE DE PHYSIQUE par Jaques Rohault .
IV .
Novae Hypotheseos de PULMONUM MOTU &amp; RESPIRATIONIS usu Specimen .
Extracts of divers Letters , Written by Martin Lister Esquire , to the Publisher ; Touching some Inquiries and Experiments of the Motion of Sap in Trees , and relating to the Question of the Circulation of the same .
I. Januar .
28 .
1672 .
, York .
YOu may be pleased to put this Quaerie also , concerning the Bleeding of the Sycamore : What condition the Soil is of , where such Trees are planted , that shall either bleed , or refuse to do so : whether Sandy , as that of Nottingham , or a wet Clay , as that of the two Trees , I have observed here at York .
* * Of both which , see this Observers Experiments formerly communicated , No. 68 .
p. 2067 , 2608 .
2 .
Febr. 8 .
167 0/ 1 , York .
Concerning the Bleeding of the Sycamore , be pleased that I acquaint you with the following Experiment of very late date .
The first instant it froze , the wind at North ; the Frost and Wind continued ( some little Snow now and then falling)the 2d,3d,4th,5th,6th , until the 7th in the morning , when the wind came about to the South-East , and the weather broke up a pace , the Sycamores bled not all this while ; but the seventh about noon , all Trees of that kind bled very freely both at the Twigs and Body , and I struck above a dozen .
At this same Critical season , I was willing to repeat the Experiment upon other Trees , and to this end I forthwith struck the Ham-thorn , Hazel , Wild-Rose , Gooseberry-Bush , Apple Tree , Cherry-Tree , Blather , Nut , Apricock , Cherry-lawrel , Vine , Wal-nut ; yet none bled but the last named , and that but faintly in comparison of the Sycamore .
This is consonant to our former Experiments : And if it did happen , as I said in one of my former Letters * , that these Sycamores bled not all this Winter afore at the wounds made the first of November , I do now think , that if new wounds had been still made at every breach of Frost , some signs at least of our York-shire bleeding * , might have been discovered before now : But I affirm no more than I have seen and tried .
* See No 68 .
p. 2068 .
* See the ground for this didistinction in the same Numb. 68.p .
2067 , 2068 .
In all the Monuments of the Ancients , collected by the great industry of Pliny , I find but few instances of this nature .
Amongst those few there is one , that is registred with two or three remarkable circumstances to our purpose .
He tells us , that the Physicians of old , when they had a mind to draw the juice of the Mulberry-tree , were wont to strike it skin-deep only , and that about two hours after Sun-rise .
This Experiment is twice mentioned by him , and in both places as a strange Phenomenon .
We might make our Comment upon those places , but for this time are content only to transcribe the Texts .
Lib. 16 .
cap. 38 .
Mirum , hic ( cortex ) in Moro , Medicis succum quaerentibus , fere hara diei secunda , lapide incussus manat , altius fractus siccus-videtur .
Lib. 23 .
c. 7 .
Mora in AEgypto &amp; Cyprosut generis , ut diximus , largo succo abundant , summo cortice desquamato ; altiore plagasiccantur , mirabili natura .
3 .
Febr. 15 .
167 0/ 1 .
York .
To continue our Experiments concerning the motion of the Sap in Trees ; Febr. 11th , all was here covered with a white Frost betwixt 9 and 11 in the morning .
The weather changing I made the Experiments , which follow , upon the Sycamore , Walnut , Maple .
A twig cut asunder would bleed very freely from that part remaining to the Tree ; and , for the part separated , it would be altogether dry and show no signs of moisture , although we held it some pretty time with the cut end downwards ; But , if this separated twig was never so little tipped with a knife at the other end , it would forthwith show moisture at both ends .
The same day , late in the after-noon , the weather very open and warm , a Twig cut off in like manner as in the morning , would show no moisture at all from any part .
These Experiments we repeated very many times with constant and like success on all the Trees above-mentioned .
I entered this Experiment with these Quaeries for the next opportunity .
1 .
Whether a Twig , or the small part of a Root cut asunder , will not bleed faster , upon the breaking up of a Frost , from the part remaining to the Tree , than from the part separated ; and whether the part separated will bleed at all , and show no more signs of moisture , than a Twig cut from the top of the Tree , unless that small Root be likewise cut off at the other end also ?
2 .
Whether when it shall happen , that a Sycamore shall be found to bleed upon the setting in of a great Frost , the top twigs and small roots will not both of them bleed freelier from the parts separated , in proportion to their bigness ?
3 .
And if it shall not so prove in the Trial , that in cold weather the Sap moves inwards from Root and Branch to the Trunk , and that upon the breaking of a Frost , the Sap moves outward from the Trunk to the extremities of both Root and Branch ; I say , if this prove not so , whether there be any different motions of Sap at a time in the divers parts of one and the same Tree ; and where such motions of Sap begin , and whither they tend ? ?
4 Whether the Sap , when it will run , moves longer in the Branches than in the Roots ; or whether it begin not to move in all parts of a Tree at a time , and rest every where at a time ?
5 .
When it rests , whether it retires to the Body of the Tree , from the Roots and Branches , or sinks down to the Root , or is any way spent by insensible steams , or is quiet and lodged in every part of the Tree in proportion ?
I shall long to hear the success of your Experiments in the Question of the Circulation of the Sap .
I have many years been inclined to think , that there is some such motion in the Juyces of Vegetables .
The reasons which induced me , are ; 1 .
Because I find , that all the Juice of a Plant is not extravasate and loose , and like Water in a Spunge ; but that there are apparent Vessels in Plants , analogous to Veins in Animals : which thing is most conspicuous and clear in such Plants , whose Juice is either White or Red , or Saffron coloured ; for instance , in each kind of Juice we propose Lactuca , Atractilis , Chelidonium majus .
2 .
Because that there are very many Plants ( and these last named are of the number ) whose Juice seems never to be at rest , but will spring at all times freely , as the Blood of Animals , upon Incision .
The way of Ligature by Metalline Rings , by you mentioned , is an Expedient I have not used ; but other Ligatures I have , upon a great number of our English Plants , not without the discovery of many curious Phenomenon .
The success of an Experiment of this Nature upon Cataputia minor Lobel .
was as follows : I tied a silk-thread upon one of the Branches of this Plant , as hard as might be , and not break the skin ; there follow 'd no greater swelling , that I could discern , on the one side of the silk than on the other ; although in often repeating the Experiment , some silks were left hours and days unloosed , and yet the dimple which the thread had made in the yielding branches , had a little raised the immediate sides , but both alike : the Plant in like manner would bleed very freely both above and under the Tie .
This was also , I thought , very remarkable , amongst other things , in this Experiment , that in drawing the Rasour round about the branch just above or below the Tie , the Milky Juice would suddenly spring out of infinite small holes , besides the made orifice , for more than half an inch above and below the Tie : which seems to argue , that though there was no Juice intercepted in appearance from any turgescence , ( as in the process upon the members of a Sanguineous Animal ) yet the Veins were so over-thronged and full , that a large orifice was not sufficient to discharge the sudden impetus and pressure of a some-ways straightened Juice .
I have endeavoured many ways to discover the Configuration of the Veins of Vegetables and their other constituent parts and Texture ; but enough of this in one Letter .
4 .
March 17 .
167 0/ 1 .
York .
To the end that I might satisfy my self about some of the doubts I sent you , I have been most concerned , according to former thoughts and inclinations , in examining the Truth of these Quaeries , viz. Whether Saps are not to be found at all seasons of the Year in a much like Consistence and Quantity in the respective parts of a Vegetable ; and what Communication one part of a Plant may have with another in relation to the Ascent and Descent of Sap ?
Now , because Sap is then said to Ascend from the Root , when it is found to move in Tapping ; I lopped off certain Branches of a Sycamore , the morning betimes of a hard Frost ( Febr. 21 .
) before they would bleed , or show any sign of moisture .
This I did to vary the Efficient , not willing to wait the Change of the Weather , and the Suns heat ; but brought them within the Air of the Fire : And by and by , as I expected , they bled apace , without being sensibly the warmer .
The Experiment repeated afforded me divers Phenomenon , which follow ; and proved almost an Universal way of Bleeding all sorts of Trees , even those , which of themselves would not show any signs of moisture .
1 .
Poles of Maple , Sycamore and Walnut , cut down in open weather , and brought within the warmth of the Fire , did bleed in an instant .
Also Willow , Hazel , Cherry , Woodbind , Blather-nut , Vine , Elder , Barbery , Apple tree , Ivy , &amp;c. Whicking and Egg .
berry Tree ( i.e. Padus Theophrasti ) tried in the same manner in Craven .
2 .
Briar and Rasberry-rods were more obstinate .
Ash utterly refused , even heated hot .
3 .
Branches , that is , Poles with their tops entire and uncut , bleed also when brought to the Fire side ; but seem not so freely to drink up their Sap again when inverted , as when made Poles .
4 .
The same Willow-Poles , left all night in the grass-spot , and returned the next day to the Fire-side , bleed afresh .
5 .
Maple and Willow-Poles bleed and cease at pleasure again and again , if quickly withdrawn and balanced in the hand , and often inverted to hinder the Falling and Expense of Sap : Yet being often heated , they will at length quite cease , though no Sap was at any time sensibly lost .
And when they have given over bleeding , that is , showing any moisture , by being brought within the warmth of the Fire , the Bark will yet be found very full of Juice .
6 .
An hard Ligature made within a quarter of an inch of the end of a Wood bind rod , did not hinder its bleeding at all when brought within the warmth of the Fire .
7 .
Maple and Willow-Poles , &amp;c. quite bared of Bark , and brought to the Fire , will show no moisture at all in any part .
8 .
One Barbery , or Pipridge-pole bared of its Bark , brought to the Fire , did show moisture from within the more inward Circles , though not any from the outward .
9 .
Maple and Willow-poles , &amp;c. half bared of Bark , would bleed by the Fire , from the half only of those Circles , which lay under the bark .
10 .
Maple and Willow-poles , split in two and planed , would not show any moisture on the planed sides , but at the ends only .
11 .
A Pole of Ivy did of it self exudate and show a liquid and yellowish rosin from the bark and near the pith ; but when brought to the Fire , side , it bled a dilute , thin and colour-less Sap from the intermediat wood Circles .
12 .
A Pole of Willow ( for Example ) bent into a bow , will ouse its Sap freely , as in bleeding either spontaneously or by the Fire .
Extract of a Letter , Written to the Publisher by Francis Willoughby Esq ; , from his House at Middleton in Warwickshire March 16 .
167~ relating to some particulars , above mentioned in M. Lyster 's Communications of Feb. 15.167~ SIR , My business and want of time to prosecute Experiments , I hope will plead my excuse for not answering yours of Feb. 18 .
sooner .
Since that , we have reviewed our old notes , and made some few Experiments , and find , that Branches of Willow , Birch , and Sycamore , cut off and held perpendicularly , will bleed without tipping ; and that the cutting off of their tops does not sensibly promote the bleeding .
We have not yet made trial in Maple and Walnut , the weather having been such , that those Trees have not run freely since the receipt of your Letter .
We doubt not of Mr. Lyster 's diligence and veracity , and wonder , our Experiments should differ* .
The Trials we have made this year , confirm those we communicated to you formerly , viz. The Sycaemore bleeds upon the first considerable Frost , after the Leaf is fallen , as it did plentifully the 16th of November last : And both that , Walnut and Maple bleed all Winter long after frosts , when the weather relents , and the Sun shines out ; but Walnut and Maple begin not so soon as the Sycamore .
The Birch will not bleed till towards the Spring .
This year it began something sooner than ordinary about the beginning of February .
* See this difference removed below , by Mr. Lister himself .
We cut off pretty big branches of Birch , and , having tipped the ends , inverted them , and fastened a Limbus or ring of soft wax to the great ends , which we held upwards ; making with the plane of the end a Vessel of about an inch deep , where-into we powred water , which in a few minutes sunk into the pores of the wood , and running quite through the length of the branch , dropped out of the ends considerably fast , continuing so to do as long as we powered on water .
The like Experiment we made by fastening such rings of wax to the lesser ends , and pouring in water , which run through the wood , and dropped out of the greater ends , as fast or faster .
This we tried once upon a Sycamore without success .
Extract of a Letter of the above-mentioned Mr. Lister , written to the Publisher from York , April 8 .
1671 .
both in relation to the further Discovery of the Motion of Juyces in Vegetables , and removing the difference noted in the next fore-going Letter .
SIR , Yours of the 4th instant came safe to my hands .
This last Month hath been a busy time with me in my private concerns , so that I have but a few things to return to what you have been pleased to communicate to me , in relation to the further discovery of the Motion of Juyces in Vegetables .
And I must acquaint you , that these Notes following are above 14 days old ; for I have scarce busied my head , or put my hand to any Experiment of later date .
One or both ends of the pith of a Willow-pole sealed up with hard wax , will yet freely bleed by the warmth of the Fire .
This was tried , when the last Experiments , I sent you , were ; and were then , I think , omitted .
March 24th .
was the greatest Frost and Snow we have had this Winter in these parts about York .
Some Twigs and Branches of the very same Willow-tree , as formerly , and likewise of many other Willow-trees , taken off this morning .
March 23th , when brought within the Air of the Fire , would show no moisture at all ; no not when heated warm , and often and long turned .
March 24th , the same Willow-branches , which yesterday would not bleed , and were thrown upon the Grass-spot all night ; did , both they and others , new cut down by the Fireside , freely show moisture and bleed this morning upon the breaking up of the Frost .
Ash-poles and branches this day , nor yesterday , would by the Fire be no more moist , than when I formerly tried them .
The same morning March 23th , a Twig of Maple , which had had the top cut off the 7th of February last past , and which then bled , this day being quite taken off from the Tree , and brought within the Air of the Fire , and held with the formerly cut-end downwards , did not run at all at the end , but held on in that posture , it did run apace at the other new-cut end uppermost , so as to spring and trickle down .
Note , That this doth well agree with my Experiments made the last year at Nottingham , where I observed wounds of some months standing to bleed apace at the breaking up of every hard Frost .
For first , in these parts there hath been no hard Frost this year , not comparable to the last year .
Again , those Nottingham-trees I wounded in the Trunk , and they stood against a Brickwall , and the wounds were on the side next it ; and besides had Horse-dung stopped in all of them for some reasons ; which things did undoubtedly defend them much from the Air and Winds , and keep the wounds still green and open : Wheras the tops of these Maple-twiggs , spoken of in the last Experiment , were exposed in an open hedge to the Air and Winds ; as also the two Sycamores here at York mentioned in my former Letter to have been wounded in November last , and not to have showed any signs of moisture , for that very cause , that they were not fresh struck at Bleeding times .
Concerning the Bleeding of Poles and entire Branches held perpendicular , Mr. Willoughby is in the right , and some Experiments in my last to you of March 17th confirm it .
Yet it is very true what I observed , though the Cause I did not then well take notice of , when I first made the Experiment and sent you an account of it .
For , I held the Twigs , which I had cut off , a slope , joining and holding up the cuts together in my left hand , that I might the better observe , which part or cut would bleed or not bleed the faster ; and because I found , that the cut of the separated Twig did not in that posture ( holding it upwards , as I said , for the advantage of my eye ) bleed at all , when as the Cut of the Branch remaining to the Tree did freely bleed ; I therefore inverted the separated Twig and held it perpendicular with the cut end downward , and found , that that little they were exposed to the Air in an upright posture , had so very much checked the motion of the Sap , that I concluded they would not bleed at all ; and yet striking off their tops , and making Poles of them , I found some of them , if not all , that I chanced to try , as I remember , would show moisture : But I am convinced since , that it was rather some unheeded accident , as violently bending them , or perhaps the warmth of my hand and season , or place , which caused this new motion of Sap , than meerly the striking off their Tops .

