I. " A System of Train-Signalling , by which also disabled Trains may telegraph for assistance without the aid of portable apparatus .
" By CHARLES V. WALKER , Esq. , F.R.S. Received March 9 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) When , in the early days of telegraphy , messages were sent and trains were signalled on the same wires , no facilities existed for reducing the apparatus employed for the latter purpose , to a simple form .
The case is now becoming different , special wires being largely devoted to train signals ; hence the present system .
The instrument employed is a large electro-magnet , with a moveable armature , carrying a stem and a hammer , which latter strikeson a bell by the direct force of magnetism .
It is provided with a contact-maker , a spring , the depression of which causes a current to circulate .
The bobbins are 4 in .
X3 in .
; and are filled with ten pounds of covered copper wire , No. 16 or No. 18 .
The core is of five-eight inch iron .
The armature and appendages weigh 24oz .
Bells of this kind have been in action for five years without cleaning or repairing .
The battery is zinc-graphite , and a solution of 1 sulph .
ac .
+8 or 10 water .
The plates , 7-in .
X3 in .
, are placed in stone pots that contain about a quart , the zinc standing in a gutta-percha slipper , containing mercury .
Batteries of this kind will do their work untended for half a year and longer .
The language consists of blows on the bell ; the number of blows varies according to the train-signal to be given .
The distinctions required for ordinary purposes being few , the bell-language is very appropriate , from its addressing the ear , from its simplicity and from the facility with which the signals are given and taken .
One blow is for the starting of an ordinary train ; two , for an express ; three , for the arrival of a train ; five , for stopping all trains ; six , for testing .
This is a general code ; other forms of code are used for protecting level crossings and junctions ; but the fundamental signals of the general code are of universal application .
This system was introduced five years ago on the South Eastern Railway ; and at the present time consists of about 100 bells , to which additions are in progress .
The bells are connected in pairs , both bells being in a circuit that terminates in the earth in the usual way , at each station .
The signal is made by depressing the spring from its earth-contact , upon the zinc end of the battery , the graphite end being in permanent connexion with the earth .
The battery being thus introduced between the bell and the earth , a current circulates along the wire and produces one blow upon the bell .
The home bell may be excluded or not from the circuit , when a signal is sent .
By the above arrangement signals are sent from station to station .
But the extreme simplicity of the battery , the bell , and the language allows the arrangements to be so modified that signals may be made on a pair of bells from any joint , intermediate between two bellstations , without the necessity of providing the signaller with any telegraph or battery , or any electrical apparatus whatever .
The addition of this property to the bells does not in any way interfere with their being in perfect action and constant use for the ordinary work of train-signalling , and therefore if the guards of trains and the plate-layers of the permanent way are provided with a signal for expressing their wants , a great advance is made in telegraphy , and a large element of safety is gained for the travelling public .
It is well known to electricians that , if two equal and opposed currents are presented to the respective ends of a wire , no evidence is manifested of the circulation of electric force ; the wire is in a null state , as much so as if no current was presented to it .
Taking advantage of this law , in connexion with the simple bell-system above described , the circuit is made to contain the two batteries , one at each station , as well as the pair of bells ; the same pole , the graphite , for instance , of each battery being connected with the earth .
When the home-station signaller desires to make a signal , he depresses the spring as before ; but the connexions are such , that by this act he excludes his own battery from the circuit .
The circuit then contains but one battery , -namely that at the pass station ; the current of which is now able to circulate from end to end , being no longer counterbalanced by an equal and opposite current ; and consequently the bells are sounded .
This , then , is the process for ordinary train-signalling , under this arrangement .
By altering the contact-maker so that it inverts the battery in the circuit , instead of putting it out of circuit , both batteries are made available for each signal ; and consequently the power and with it the cost of each may be reduced .
But the null state of the wire is equally well and very readily destroyed , by connecting it with the earth at any point intermediate between the two stations ; for by this process a complete circuit is made or channel opened for the discharge of both ends of both batteries , each independently of the other , except that the attached wire between the earth and the telegraph wire is common to both circuits , and thus the bells at the respective stations are actuated by the batteries of the respective stations .
If ten blows with a pause of a minute , and then ten more , is the signal that the engine is disabled ; ten blows , and a minute of contact , that an accident has happened ; a ringing continued beyond ten , that the permanent way is obstructed , the stations at either side are advised and can take the measures necessary to meet the case .
These contacts may be made by hooking a wire or rod on to the line wire and making the necessary contacts with the rail ; or , which is better , by establishing contact-makers , properly secured at frequent intervals on the telegraph posts .
This system gives to those in charge of disabled trains a certain means of asking for assistance from any point of the open railway , without any training beyond that of counting ten slowly and correctly .
In practice , as between Red-Hill and Reigate , no inconvenience or loss of electricity has been suffered from counterbalancing the two currents .
The author states that there are other properties of opposed currents to be communicated on another occasion .

