]\gt ; of Iagnetic Iin xgnctic Field .
to the actual rate of distortion in iment , the result is to reduce somewhat the of values of respondin to iven C. Thus the variation of viscosity may be said to furnish a qualitative explanation of the large ences in this oil from the accepted laws sl It is vorthy of notice that there indications of a of proportionality between stress and late of strain in this oil even when it was as mobile as air .
This vork was done at the Laboratory , and I wish to express my thanks to Prof. Hopkinson for his kind help and inspiring interest .
the of Rotating in a Iognet i By , lf .
Sc. , anil H. A. , D.Sc .
, F.B.S. , Professor of Physic , , h'ice Institute , Houston , Texas , U.S.A. Received Read June In a previous paper*by one of ns ib shown that when an insulator of specific indnctive capacity in netic field there is an electromotive force induced in it to in a conductor multiplied by The jcct of the ) below was to measure the induced omotive force in a onetic ilsulator rotating in neCic field parallel to the of rotation . .
to the theory based on the " " principle of relativity\ldquo ; this induced electromotive force should be equal to that in a conductol multipJied here is the netic 1ermeability of the insulator , whereas on theory of H. A. Lorentz and Larmor the nrultiplier to be , as for a non-nlagnelic insulator .
insulator is known for which differs from unity , so that it was necessary to construct a sort of model of a lnagnetic insulator .
) ulator adopted consisted of wax , in which a number of ] steel embedded .
The spheres inch in diameter , and each one ' ' On the Effect of Rotating a Dielectl.ic in Iagnetic Field by H. A. Wilson , ' Phil. Trans 1904 : , vol. 204 .
M. ' Theory der ' vol. 11 , p. 322 .
100 Mrs. M. Wilson and Prof. H. A. Wilson .
Electric Effect was coated thinly with wax .
The coated spheres were packed htly and melted paraffin wax poured into the empty spaces between them so as to form a solid mass .
The insulator was in the of a hollow cylinder with inside and outside metal coatings , and was rotated in a magnetic field parallel to the axis of the cylinder .
The outside was connected to one pair of quadrants of a quadrant electrometer , the other quadrants of which were earthed .
If an electromoGive force is induced in the cylinder and this raises the potential of the outer coating by volts , then where is capacity between the inner and outer , and the capacity of the electrometer connecting wire and outside surface of the outer coating .
The inner coating is supposed earthed .
If the potential of the inner is raised by au amount , and this raises the potential of the outer coating by , then Let the electrometer deflection due to be and that due to be Then we have .
Thus can be found in terms of , and .
Another way is to earth the outer and charge the one to a potential , then insulate the outer coating and afterwards earth the inner one .
In this way a to outer coating which raises its potential to and -CE ' This second method has the that it requires ) outer to be earthed , so that errors may arise due to electric effects produced by the key the outer to the earth .
Also in the first method the potential Ji ' acts in exactly the same as the ced electromotive force , so that errors due to bad insulation affect both and equally , and so ilre eliminated .
The first was therefore adopted .
In the earlier experiments referred to above a small , standard condenser was used to give a known charge to the outer \ldquo ; and the capacity of the cylinder was found in ternls of that of the condenser .
This method was less direct than that now employed .
The inner was connected to earth a 10-ohm resistance which could be connected a 90-ohm resistance to a dry cell .
The potential difference between the ends of the 100 ohms was measured with of Rotating Magnetic Insulator in a Field .
a lVeston voltmeter .
When the cell was not conn ected the inner coatin .
was earthed , and when it was connected the inner as raised fo a potential one-tenth of that indicated by the volbmeter , which was usually volts .
The apparatus was that used in the earlier tion , with some improvements in detail .
The ylinder was .
external 2 cm .
internal diameter , and cm .
outside SUl.face of the cylinder was a tube ) .
thick , and another brass ) fitted the inside surface .
The inner tube mounted on a shaft , from which it was insulated , and the shaft was mon1l between fixed conical bearings and could be rotated by means of a by a .
motor .
The cylinder was surrounded by a la .
solenoid which a netic field parallel to the axis of rotation .
Two s1nall brass wire brushes made contact , one on the middle of the outel ' the othel on the inner tube close to one end of the cylinder .
ement of the brnshes is shown in .
Each brush was kept pressed FIG. 1 .
Outer coating of cylindel ' .
Innel of P. pull Solenoid .
Brush on outer cuating .
D. Brush on inner Conical xxxx .
Water jacket .
EEFiE .
Ebonite bushi tino on K. outer .
TTTT .
cell .
11 .
to istauces of 90 and 1 Key .
Dry cell .
Voltmeter .
tube shaft .
down htly but steadily by the of a bar fastened at angles to the end of the rod supporting the brush as shown .
The ineltia of these bars preven ted the brnshes from when the cylinder was Mrs. M. Wilson and Prof H. A. Wilson .
Electric Effect quickly and they could be adjusted so that the pressure on the brushes very small .
This new arrangement of the brushes caused a reat improvement in working of the apparatus .
The electrometer and the wire leading to it were completely enclosed in a metal case which , with the solenoid , formed a complete electrostatic screen around the insulated system .
The inside of the solenoid was kept cool by means of a water-jacket .
The speed of the cylinder was found with a revolution counter driven by a worm To make a deternIination of the induced electromotive force in the cylinder the electrometer deflection due to the potential of the inner by about volt was first observed and then the cylinder started and its speed found .
The effect of a known current in the solenoid was next .
The speed and sensibility were then measured .
The speed of cylinder remained constant within the limits of error .
The sensibility also remained constant over periods .
The electrometer scale reading was very steady while the cylinder was and the effect of the current could be easily and exactly observed .
In fact with the new ement of the brushes no difficnlty in the observations was experienced and the accuracy seemed to be limited only by the smallness of the deflections obtained .
The cylinder insulated well .
There was no effect due to running the cylinder in absence of a magnetic field and no effect due to reyersing the current when the cylinder was at rest .
The speed and sensibility were not by the current in the solenoid .
The sensibility the same when the cylinder was running as when it was at rest .
The following table contains a set of results obtained:\mdash ; It will be seen that the induced electromotive force is very nearly proportional to the current reyersed and to the nutnber of revolutions per second .
After these observations were made it was found thab running the cylinder had produced a narrow air gap beliween the inner tube the wax .
This of gnetic Insulator in gnetic Field .
was filled up by slightly warming the cylinder and forcing down the mixture of wax and balls at the ends of the cylinder so that the mixture was very htly pressed against the inner and outer tubes .
The best results could be obtained a6 about 100 reyolutions per second .
At greater speeds the electrometer reading was not vays quite steady and at smaller speeds the deflections were too small .
A set of concordant Uleasurements of the effect due to about 14 amperes at 100 revolutions per second was therefore obtained and the llean of these adopted as the result of the experiments .
The mean results were as follows : will be seen that this result rees closely with the others .
In order to compare the observed effect with that in a conductor , it is necessary to the ) .
induction the cylinder .
Corl.ections for the induced electromotive forces in the metal have also to be applied .
The change of induction the cylinder and its outer due to reversing a in the solenoid , } found by means of a spiral of fine wire wrapped round it from end to end .
Tbis spiral was connected to a alvanometer , nd the secondary coil of an accurately known mutual induction was included in the circuit .
The current in the primary of mutual induction was measured with the same ammeter that was used to measure the current in the solenoid .
The induction found to be proportional to the current from 5 to 15 amperes , and to be equal to 4210 per ampere reversed .
A second determination of this quantity was done , using a coil of two turns round the cylinder .
The induction this coil was found for a series of equidistant positions the cylinder and the mean induction through the cylinder calculated .
The sult 4200 .
The mean of f , he two results , 4205 , was adopted .
The difference between the mean area of the windings and the area of cross-section of tlJe cylinder was , of course , allowed for .
The field at the windings was taken equal to that due to the solenoid in the absence of the cylinder .
The mean induction in the hole the cylinder was found with a coil which could be slid inside when the cylinder was supported in its usual 104 Mrs. M..Wilson and Prof. H. A. Wilson .
Electric Effect position with the innel tube and shaft removed .
This was found to be equal to per ampere reyersed .
The field at the centre of the solenoid in the absence of the cylinder was found to be equal to 200- for a current of 2 amperes , which is the same as the value found in the earlier inyestigation done in the Cayendish Laboratory .
It was found that near the ends of the cylinder there was a stronger field than inside the hole through .
This , of course , was due to the magnetisation of the cylinder .
In consequence of this there was an induced electromotive force in the inner tube which diminished the effect observed .
The induction through the cross-section of the inner tube at the brush on it was found to be per ampere reversed , so that the potential of the inner tube was lowered by the electromotive force due to units of induction .
The induction through the outer covel was aken to be equal per unit cross-section to the field in the absence of the cylinder , which made it 143 per ampere reversed .
An error in this quantity would have practically no effect on the final result for the ratio of the effect to that in a conductor , because it is to be subtracted from both quantities .
The induction through the cylinder at the brush on the outer cover was found to be 5010 per ampere reyersed .
This is greater than the average induction through the cylinder by .
In consequence of this the potential at the was raised above the average potential of the outside of the cylinder by the potential due to 805 units of induction per ampere observed eHect , therefore , includes an induced electromotive due to units of induction per ampere l'eversed , acting in the metal coatings of the cylinder .
This gives volt per ampere reversed per revolution per second .
Subtracting this from the observed effect we get volt per ampere reversed per revolution per second as the observed effect in the insulator itself .
The average induction through the insulator is per ampere reyersed .
Tbis would give an induced electromotive force in a conductor equal to volt per ampere reyersed per reyolution per second .
The ratio of the observed effect to that in a conductor is therefore The value for the insulator was found* to be and that of to be , so that For method see earlier paper referred to abo ve .
of JIagnetic Insulator in gnetic Field .
The accuracy of the value found for the ratio of the induced electromotive force in the insulator to that in a conductor depends on of the voltmeter and ammeter employed .
The electromotive force was found in terms of the voltmeter reading , and the induction depends on the product of the mutual induction of the standard and current determined by the ammeter .
The primary of the itual induction consisted of a single layer of wire wound in a screw thread of 1 mm. pitch cut on a brass tube 5 .
in diameter and 90 cm . .
The screw was cut on an accurate and the number of threads was found to be 10 per cm .
to within 1 part in 5000 .
The secondary coil consisted of a layer of turns wound on an accurately turned brass cylinder , which fitted into the primary coil .
The area of the secondary coil was known to within 1 part in .
The induction was known to higher order of accuracy than the other mtities involved .
neter and anlDleter readings only enter into the final result the value of the ratio of the potential indicated by the voltmeter to the current indicated by the tmmeter , because the sa1ne ammeter was used to measure the currents in the solenoid and in the of the mutual induction .
The value of found by means of a standard one-tenth ohm resistance .
The table ives the results ained : Current by lumeter ( .
tmeter ( .
by lumetel ( .
tmeter ( .
by lumetel ( .
tmeter ( .
by lumetel ( .
tmeter ( .
by lumetel ( .
tmeter ( .
by lumetel ( .
tmeter ( .
0.1 The ratio is constant and to the resistance of the so that it seems certain that no sppreciable error could have been introduced by ammeter and yoltnleter , which were new Weston ) instruments .
It appears , efore , that the induced force in the rees approximately with that to be expected on the theol.y of relativity .
This theory no assumptions to the constitution the inslll , so that it is applicable to any 1nedium in bulk an biliby and inductive capacity K. The effect to be exlJected on the theol.y of H. A. Lorentz and Lalmor depends 011 assumptions as to the ltion of the mnterial medium so that it is whether to be regarded as necessarily to as the valne of the ratio of the otive in the compum to that in a These ] ) eriments therefore confirm the tbeory 01 ' re]ativity but do not Prof. W. B. Morton .
necessarily connict with the fundamental assumptions of H. A. Lorentz and Larmor 's theory .
They do , however , make it probable that the application of this theory to magnetic bodies has not yet been worked out in a satisfactory manner .
added , 1913.\mdash ; The specific in capacity and meability of any material medium are values over volumes large compared with the structural units ( molecules or bodies ) up the medium .
The medium employed has definite values of these quantities for volumes large compared with the olume of one of the spheres used in building it up .
It appears , therefore , to be allowable to apply any theoretical results expressed in terms of and to the medium used .
] Our thanks are due to the Government Grant Committee of the Society for a grant with a large part of the apparatus used in this investigation was originally purchased , and also to the Trustees of the Rice Institute for the facilities for experimental work which they have placed at our disposal .
On the cements of the rticles their Paths in some Ca.ses of Two-dimensional Motion of Frictionless Liquid .
By W. B. , Professor of Physics , Queen 's University of Belfast .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received June 2 , \mdash ; Read June 19 , 1913 .
) The paths described by the individual particles of a liquid have been inyestigated only in a few cases , those in which the motion is steady , so that the particles ] the stream-lines .
Clerk Maxwell , , pnblished for the paths in an unbounded liquid disturbed by the passage of a circular cylinder .
The curves for particles in contact with the cylinder were plotted by calculation ; the other paths were drawn by eye from a knowledge of their terminal points and curvature .
From these curves were derived others , showing the successive in the deformation of a row of particles which , before the approach of the cylinder , lay in a straight line perpendicular to its motion .
In 1885 , Lord Kelvinl- investigated the paths of particles of a liquid ' Lond. Math. Soc. Proc vol. 3 ; 'Collected Papers , ' vol. 2 , p. 208 .
'Collected Papers , ' vol. 4 , p. 193 .

