502 Dr. G. Thin .
On Bacterium decalvans .
[ " Mar. 3 , successful in hairs that had been kept for a period of weeks folded in paper , nor in nineteen cultivations attempted with hairs taken from patients under treatment .
The negative value of these latter experiments is diminished by the occasional failure with hairs freshly extracted from untreated cases .
The fact that the spores of the Trichophyton will not .grow when immersed in vitreous humour , whilst they do grow when only moistened by it , explains why inflammatory exudation from the bloodvessels cures ringworm of the scalp .
III .
" On Bacterium decalvans : an Organism associated with the Destruction of the Hair in Alopecia areata .
" By George Thin , M.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The author having in several cases of Alopecia areata found bacteria adherent to the roots of extracted hairs , subjected hairs in six selected cases to processes designed to demonstrate the existence of organisms , should they be present , in the substance of the diseased hairs .
In five out of the six cases an object was observed in the hairs which he believes to be a bacterium .
It was seen as a rounded or elongated spheroid , and was found frequently in pairs , the long diameter of the two spheroids forming a continuous straight line .
Sometimes three were found in line , a delicate rod-shaped sheath enveloping the three .
These bodies were , as was shown by the processes to which the hairs were subjected , neither oily particles nor crystals , and they could be distinguished from the granules always present in hairs .
In all the cases their size and form were the same , and they had the refractive qualities of bacteria .
In hairs which were only slightly affected they were found between the inner root-sheath and the hair-shaft , and in small clusters on the hair-shaft beneath the cuticle of the hair .
In hairs which were much diseased they were found in great numbers inside the cuticle of the hair , in the disintegrated hair substance .
Some hairs were found split into ribbon-like bands not far from the root and the organisms were found on the bands .
They were found only in the part of the hair which is under the surface of the skin , and most abundantly not far from the root .
In seven consecutive cases the disease was at once and definitely arrested by a treatment designed to destroy the vitality of any bacteria which might be present on the surface of the skin , and at the same 1881 .
] Dr. G. Thin .
Absorption of Pigment by Bacteria .
503 time to present a mechanical obstacle to their progress in growth from .one hair follicle to another.* IV .
" On the Absorption of Pigment by Bacteria .
" By George Thin , M.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , 1881 .
Whilst occupied with cultivation of ringworm hairs in vitreous humour at a temperature of 92 to 98 ' F. , I had occasion to observe in studying the hairs under the microscope , amongst the forms of bacteria which were invariably found in these cultivations , certain appearances that seem worthy of note .
For the present , I shall limit my remarks to one of these appearances .
It is known that certain fungi possess the property of taking up .colouring matter from the medium in which they grow ; and I have had occasion to observe in the Trichophyton tonsurans that both in man rand in the horse the fungus may acquire a dark colour from absorbed pigment .
In the case of the horse , I have found the mycelial wall represented by an apparently empty dark tube ; and I have found , at the same time , spores blackened with a coating of pigment .
I have found an analogous appearance in bacteria .
The bacteria found in these cultivations are seen in the transition forms of a spore or coccus , an elongating spore , rods , elongated rods , sometimes of great length , long rods , with the first appearance of a differentiation of the protoplasm into sporules , and finally as tubes full of spores or cocci .
These appearances have been now followed in several specific .organisms , and notably , and first of all , in the Bacillus anthracis .
They would seem to indicate the ordinary life-history of at least many bacteria .
I observed that frequently the preparations contained long bacteria rods which had taken up pigment from the hair .
This pigment was often found at one end of a long rod , whilst towards the other end the rod was free from it ; and in the part of the rod in which the pigment was found the spore formation could , in several instances , be * As treatment which is destructive of bacteria would also arrest the development of a fungus , it is desirable to add that in none of these cases , nor in previous .ones , was the author able to find the fungus described by Gruby , although a large number of hairs were examined .
The examinations thus made were so exhaustive that he can only explain the alleged existence of a fungus in this disease by assuming that the distinction between Alopecia areata and some of the forms of ringworm has not been always kept in view .
2 n 2

