On the Aeriform Compounds of Charcoal and Hydrogen ; with an Account of some Additional Experiments on the Gases from Oil and from Coal .
By Willian Henry , M.D. F.R.S. 8 &amp;c. Read February 22 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 136 .
] In this paper , after adverting to the sources , properties , and composition of carburetted hydrogen obtained from stagnant water , and of olefiant gas procured from the decomposition of alcohol ; and after examining the agency of chlorine upon these compounds ; the author proceeds to examine the gas procured by the decomposition of oil and of coal at high temperatures .
The former , or oil gas , is shown to vary considerably in composition and properties , according to the temperature at which it is procured ; and though no temperature short of ignition is sufficient for the decomposition of oil into permanent combustible gases , yet the lower the heat the more combustible is the gas , and better suited to artificial illumination .
In analysing these gases , Dr. Henry always found them mixtures of olefiant , carburetted hydrogen , hydrogen , and carbonic oxide gases .
Dr. Henry separated the first by the action of chlorine , and from the detonation of the residue with oxygen , as compared with an artificial mixture of known composition , he ascertained the relative proportions of its components .
It appears from the tables exhibiting these results , that in oil gas the proportion of carbonic oxide is greater than in that from coal , but that carburetted hydrogen is most abundant in the latter .
The proportion of hydrogen appears to increase in both as they are formed at higher temperatures , and is always greatest in the latter portions of coal gas ; but Dr. Henry never found that either oil or coal gas , after the action of chlorine with the exclusion of light , presented a residue of pure hydrogen .
In the concluding section of this paper , the author details some experiments which led him to consider that portion of oil gas , which is condensible by chlorine , not as mere olefiant gas , but as a peculiar compound , requiring nearly two volumes of oxygen more for its combustion than an equal quantity of olefiant gas , and affording one additional volume of carbonic acid ; he therefore thinks that it must be considered either as containing a new compoiund of carbon and hydrogen , or as deriving its peculiarities from an inflammable vapour , To this new gaseous compound much of the illuminating power of coal and oil gas is to be attributed .

