]\gt ; A Iethod o. Weighing Particles .
By E. F. BURTON , Ph. D. , Associate Professor of Physics , University of Toronto .
( Communicated by Prof. J. C. IcLennan , F.R.S. Received March 29 , 1919 .
Probably the first method suggested for the determination of the size of colloidal particles depended on the application of Stokes ' law for the rate of fall of rigid spheres through fluids .
Such spheres attain , after a very shorb , interval of time , a limiting velocity , , such that the force of friction of the fluid is given by the equation , ( 1 ) where coefficient of viscosity of the fluid , radius of the pal.ticle .
For steady motion this force must be equal to forceacting on the particle immersed in the fluid .
The latter force is given by where and are the densities of the material of the particle and of fluid respectively .
quating these forces we have from which .
( 3 ) Unfortunately , this simple formula is of vely narrow application to aqueous solutions , because the fall of particles less in radius than aboub cm .
is , masked by the Brownian movement , which , as a result of molecular agitation , prevents any settling of the colloidal particles .
One can see at any time in the Faraday collection at the Royal Institution samples of gold colloidal solutions , prepared by Faraday before 1860 ; these solutions , which are suspensions of metallic particles of radius about , show sign whatever of settling .
The method outlined in the present communication may be described as an .
artificial production of the settling due to gravitation by superimposing the motion produced in an electrical field maintained in the liquid medium that due to gravitation .
In fig. 1 is represented the -tube , used by the writer some years ago in detel t the mobility of colloidal particles in an electrical field .
method is as follows:\mdash ; * Burton , " " Physical Properties of Colloidal ' p. 131-2 ; 'Phil .
: vols .
6 , 11 , p. 436 ( 1906 ) .
A New Method of Weighing Collovdal ticles .
" " The colloidal solution to be tried is poured into the funnel so as to fill the funnel and small tube to the tap , which is closed ; water having a specific conductivity equal to that of the colloid is then poured into the -tube so as to fill it to a height of about 3 cm .
The whole tube then is placed in a lass water-bath so as to be almost submerged ; this water should be kept at a 1 constant temperature during the course of any experiment .
At the end of a few minutes the tap ( T ) is .opened slightly , and the colloidal solution allowed to force the water gently up the limbs of the tube any required height .
If carefully manipulated , :4 } the surface of separation between the clear water .
and the solution is very distinct , and will remain so for hours .
Two electrodes are attached to the terminals of a set of storage cells of constant and , when the circuit is completed , the surface of separation in one limb will at once to rise gradually , while that in the other will sink .
In practice , the connections may be made through a reversing key and the , usually fixed at about 110 volts , may be left on one way for 10 minutes and then reversed for 20 minutes .
The velocity is reckoned from the displacement of the surfaces during this fina120 minutes ; one-half the sum of the displacements in the tubes is taken as the distance travelled by a particle in the given time .
A typical set of observations is given in Table I. Table I. Electrodes mm. in each limb .
482 Prof E. F. Burton .
" " It will be seen from the Table that there has been an apparent settling of the colloid in the tube while the current was running .
This is : usual but , as the reckoning is made , it could not affect the rate , since this lowering of the surface is uniform in both limbs , so that , while it added to the velocity in one limb , it is subtracted from the velocity in the other The settling referred to above was at the time looked upon as merely circumstance .
The true importance of it has just recently appealed to the writer .
It will be seen from the Table that , during the first 10 minutes , the colloid moved up in the right side and down in the left side the tube ; during the second 10 minutes the motion was reversed .
From the figures quoted , which were typical of a large number of experiments , was a settling in each tube of 1 mm. It is quite apparent that this settling is due to the action of gravity .
As in the case of Millikan's* work with single droplets of liquids in air , we are dealing here with a motion which is caused during one period of 10 minutes by the force , and during the second 10 minutes by , where X is the electric field maintained in the liquid , " " \ldquo ; the effective charge on the particle , and the gravitational pull on the particle in the water .
The ifference between the up and down motion will then be due to the settling caused by gravity , and to this motion Stokes ' law can be applied .
The objection suggests itself that we are taking account of the action of the weight of the particle , although , when the solution is not acted upon by the electric field , there is no settling noticeable .
When there is any appreciable settling , the must attain a limiting velocity , , corre-sponding to Stokes ' formula Weight This ires a certain interval of time , for the particle from rest and is accelerated under the force of gravity ; the smaller the particle the less the limiting velocity .
At the same time the smaller the particle , the greater the influence of the Brownian movement caused by molecular shocks .
Particles which do not show settling are those for which the Brownian movement is so , that is , those for which the molecular shocks in random directions are so potent , that the particles do not get a chance to attain the limiting velocity in a downward direction due to gravitation .
However , when a vertical electrical field is applied , which gives a motion the particle greatly in excess of either the gravitational or Brownian movelnent , the partioles are dragged up or down through the liquid ; under such Millikan , " " The Electron , \ldquo ; ' Phil. Mag June , 1917 .
A New Method of Weighing Coltoidal rticles .
conditions , the comparatively insignificant gravitational force will be added to the electrical for downward motion and subtracted for motion .
If limitin g velocity due to electrical field , f$ and , , , , { gravitation , , ( 4A ) , ( 4B ) Subtracting these , have from which , by equation ( 2 ) , In the Table above for colloidal silver particles we have a motion of 1 mm. in 20 minutes recorded .
This ives for in the above cm .
per second .
Putting equal to the viscosity of water at C. , viz. , , and for silver equal to , we have cm .
The radius of these particles , as determined at the time by the counting method , was cm .
The closeness of the agreement of these two determinations is an indication that careful observation of this settling would give an extremely serviceable method of determining the size of colloidal particles much below the microscopic size .
It should be noted that there was no particular incentive to record exactly the position of the colloidal surfaces in the -tube at the end of the first 10 minutes ' run , as this reading was used merely as a check as to whether or not the apparatus was working normally .
Experiments are now being carried out by Mr. W. W. E. loss , under direction of the writer , to determine the settling very exactly .
By the application of ultra-microscopic illumination of single particles in a slowly alternating electric fieId acting in a vertical direction , it is hoped thab the settling will be observed over a very much more extended interval of time , and that an exceedingly exact method of weighing these particles will be developed .
In addition , this method should prove useful in determining the effect of the addition of various electrolytes on the size of colloidal particles , and thereby shed a great deal of light on the incipient processes of coagulation .

