]\gt ; 242 Mr. R. Lachlan .
[ Mar. 11 , assisted in doing so by agitations effected either by thermal or mechanical agency ; hence\mdash ; Rest after suspension , aided by oscillations at intervals , diminishes the internal friction of a wire which has been recently suspended , or which after a long suspension has been subiected to considerable molecular agitation by either mechanical or thermal agency .
On the contrary , when a maximum molecular rotatory elasticity has been reached , molecular agitation , if carried beyond a certain limit , diminishes the elaslicity ; hence the results of ' ' fatigue of elasticity and hence\mdash ; Mechanical shocks and rapid fluctuations of temperature beyond certain limits may considerably increase tho internal friction , and , though to a much less extent , diminish the torsional elasticity .
The logarithmic decrement is independent of both the length amd diameter of the wire .
II .
" " On Systems of Circles and Spheres By B. LACHLAN , B.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor A. AYLEY , F.B.S. Received February 23 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) This memoir is an attempt to develop the ideas contained in two papers to be found in the volume of Clifford 's Mathematical Papers ( Macmillan , 1882 ) , , " " On Power Coordinates\ldquo ; ( pp. 546\mdash ; 555 ) , and " " On the Powers of Spheres\ldquo ; ( pp. 332\mdash ; 3S6 ) ; the date of the former is stated to be 1866 , and of the latter 1868 , but the editor explains note , that though these papers probably contain the substance of a paper read to the London Mathematical Society , February 27 , 1868 , " " On Circles and Spheres\ldquo ; Proc. L. M. vol. ii , p. 61 ) , they were probably not written out before 1876 .
It is possible , therefore , that Clifford may be indebted Darboux for the conception of the " " power of two circles or spheres , as an extension of Steiner 's use of the " " power of a point with respect to a circle .
Darboux was the first to give the definition of the power of two circIes , in a paper " " les Relations entre les de Points , de Cercles , et de Spheres\ldquo ; ( " " Annales de l'Ecole Normale Superieure vol. , p. 323 , 1872 ) , in which some theorems analogous to the fundamental theorem of this memoir are proved .
This memoir is divided into three Parts : Part I consists of the discussion of systems of circles in one plane ; Part II of systems of cles on the surface of a sphere ; and Part III of systems of spheres .
The power of two circles is defined to be the squal'e of the distance between their centres less the sum of the squares of their radu .
1886 .
] On of Circles pheres .
Denoting the power of two circles by , it is proved the .
power of any five circles respect to any other circles are connected by the relation\mdash ; \ldquo ; which conveniently written:\mdash ; This is the fundamental theorem of the paper ; it is shown that if the power of a straight line and a circle be defined as the perpendicular from the centre of the circle on the aight h , and the power of two straight lines as the cosine of the angle between them : then theorem is true if any of the circles of ither system be replaced by points , straight lines , or the line at infinity .
Several special systems of circles are then discussed , the most remarkable perhaps being the case when the circles being given , the circles orthogonal to the former taken three at a time ; then , denoting any other circles , the equation\mdash ; becomes and as a particular case when the two circles are replaced by the line at an infinity , we have The general theorem is then applied to prove some properties of circles connected with three circles ; a formula is given for the radius of a circle which passes through three of the points of intersection of three given circles ; the eight circles which can be drawn to touch three circles are shown to be each touched by four of eight other circles , called Dr. Hart 's circles , these ange themselves in pairs ; if be the radu of a pair of Dr. Hart 's ciroles , and the radii of the corresponding pair of the circles passing the points of intersection of the given circles , it is shown that .
Lachlan .
[ Mar. 11 , If denote any system of circles not kaving a common orthogonal circle , then defining the ' power-coordinates\ldquo ; of a point as any multiples of its powers with respect to the system of reference , it is deduced from the equation that the coordinates of any point must satisfy a non-homogeneous linear relation , and a homogeneous quadric relation called the absolute .
Also the equation of first degree in power-coordinates represents a circle , unless it be satisfied by the coordinates of the line at infinity , and then it represents a straight line .
The equation of the second degree is shown to represent a bicircuJar quartic , or a .
cubic , some general properties are proved , and then the curves classified .
It is sbown that the equation may be reduced to one of the forms the absolute ; or . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( B ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( C ) the absolute being The different curves are then discussed in detail , there being nine species in all , three in each group ( A ) , ( B ) , or ( C ) .
Part II colltains merely the extension of the results of Part I to spherical geometry ; the power of two circles on a sphere is defined to be the product of , where , are the radii , their angle of intersection ; the power of a bmall circle radius , and a great circle is , however , defined as ; and of two great circles as The fundamental theorem is as before connectin the powers of two systems of circles .
Consequently the results obtained previously are extended with but slight modification .
In Part III the method of Part I is applied to spheres ; it is proved at once that the powers of any systems of spheres must satisfy the relation and any of the spheres may be ] aced by planes , or the plane at nity .
Several results obtained in Part I are easily extended , with ono 1886 .
] On Systems of Circles and heres .
exception ; there are ei pairs of spheres which touch four given spheres , but except in very special cases no spheres exist to Dr. Hart 's circles .
The discussion of the equation of the first degree in power-coordimates is much the same as that in Part T. The reduction , however , of the general equation of the second degree is more complicated ; there are four distinct forms to which the equation may be reduced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
the equation of the absolute being ; this is the general cyclide , of either the fourth or third order ; if it has two cnic-nodes .
and if , it has four cnic-nodes ; but in this case the sphere must be imaginary .
equation of the absolute being This is the general case of a cyclide having one cnic-node , if it has three nodes ; the former case is the inverse of a central quadric , the latter the inverse of a central quadric of revolution : the spheres are real in this case .
the equation of the absoIute being This represents a cyclide having two princ , ipal s and a binode ; if or the node is a unode .
tho equation of the absoIute being This presents a cyclide having only one principal sphere ; and a cnic-node , which becomes a binode when , and a unode when The nt specios of cyclides are then briefly discussed in detail .
VOL. XL .

