The reading of Professor Davy 's Paper was resumed and concluded .
In the course of his experiments on a new test for chlorine gas , an account of which was lately read to the Royal Society , the author was induced to examine the gases produced by the mutual action of nitric acid and different chlorides , and also of the nitric and muriatic acids on each other .
When fused chloride of sodium , potassium or calcium , in powder , is treated with as much strong nitric acid as is sufficient to wet it , a considerable action takes place : cold is produced , and a gas of a bright reddish or yellowish colour is copiously evolved , which is promoted by applying a gentle heat .
This gas , especially in the early stage of the process , appears to be a mixture of chlorine and another gas , distinguished from it by the great fa ?
cility with which it is absorbed by water .
From this circumstanee , and from its also exerting a considerable action upon mercury , its properties cannot be satisfactorily ascertained by collecting it in conc tact with either of these fluids ; but as it is much heavier than com ?
mon air , the author was enabled to collect it in sufficient quantity for examination , and nearly in a pure state , from a tubulated retort by means of a bent tube reaching to the bottom of small narrowmouthed bottles , with ground stoppers .
The gas , when thus obtained , is of a pale reddish yellow colour ; has an odour somewhat resembling that of chlorine , though less pungent .
From its strong affinity for moisture , it fumes when brought into contact with the air .
In its ordinary state of dryness it destroys vegetable colours , readily bleaching turmeric paper : litmus paper , however , is reddened by it before it is bleached .
But when carefully dried by means of fused chloride of sodium , it does not affect those substances .
This gas does not support combustion ; but the bifulminate of silver explodes in it .
The author next describes its action upon phosphorus , sulphur , antimony , arsenic , bismuth , tin , copper , zinc , iron , lead , gold , silver , platina , mercury , sulphuric ether , alcohol , oil of turpentine , naphtha , concentrated muriatic acid , iodine , and bromine .
With hydrogen gas it forms a mixture which explodes when ignited .
The general conclusion which the author draws from his experiments is , that this gas is an actual compound of chlorine and nitrous gas , and he therefore gives it the name of the chloro-nitrous gas .
When collected over mercury , one portion of it forms with that metal a white compound , which appears to be a mixture of calomel and corrosive sublimate , whilst the remainder is found to give orange vapours with common air , attended with a diminution of volume , and to be almost wholly absorbed by a recent solution of green sul ?
phate of iron .
He also infers that the gas consists of equal volumes of chlorine and nitrous gas , combined together without any conden ?
sation , its atomic number being 102 .
He finds its specific gravity , compared with that of atmospheric air , to be 1.7.59 .
In the mutual decomposition of chloride of sodium and nitric acid , the products appear to be chloro-nitrous and chlorine gases , and nitrate of soda .
The author explains the changes which take place in the following manner : ?
the nitric acid , by its partial decomposition , yields nitrous gas and oxygen : the former unites with part of the chlorine expelled from the chloride of sodium , to form chloro-nitrous gas , whilst the latter combines with the sodium to form soda , which , with the remaining nitric acid , compose nitrate of soda .
The re ?
mainder of the chlorine mixes with the chloro-nitrous gas .
The author states that the two component gases of the chloronitrous gas unite at once when brought into contact , after having been dried in the most careful manner possible ; afact which is con ?
trary to the opinion generally entertained among chemists .
By passing chloro-nitrous gas through water an acid is obtained , which appears to resemble very closely the common solvent of gold , or aqua regia , otherwise called the nitro-muriatic acid .
The author here remarks , that if the constitution of the chloro-nitrous gas be such as he has stated , that is , composed of 30 by weight of nitrous gas , and 72 of chlorine , one of its proportionals should decompose two of water , consisting of 16 oxygen and 2 hydrogen ; thus form ?
ing 46 nitrous acid , and 74 muriatic acid .
But an acid so constituted should be incapable of acting on gold or platina ; now the acid resulting from the absorption of chloro-nitrous gas by water has this power .
The author concludes from his experiments , that the power of nitro-muriatic acid in dissolving gold is not owing to the liberation of chlorine , and that muriatic acid may be separated from nitric acid , even when the latter is only half the volume of the former .
He regards chlorine and chloro-nitrous gases as the gaseous products arising from the mutual action of strong nitric and muriatic acids on each other .
The nitro-muriatic and chloro-nitrous acids strongly resemble each other in their action on platina , though the solvent power of the latter is decidedly greater than that of the former ; and the addition of water considerably increases this power in both , pro ?
bably by counteracting their disposition to assume the elastic state .
Both acids form , with different bases , salts which are mixtures of nitrates and chlorides .
The principal differences in these acids may arise from their mode of preparation , and is probably due to the want of uniformity in their composition .

