591 change of temperature is allowed for .
The most important result in the former case is the relation between pressure and velocity , which is shown to be that which is expressed by the equation from which several new results are obtained .
With respect to the velocity of sound , which has hitherto been found experimentally to exceed the velocity obtained by theory , it is shown that the value obtained by approximative methods is the minimum limit of sound-velocity , so that the actual velocity will always be greater ; the excess depending upon the intensity and genesis of the sound .
It is shown that all the parts of a wave do not travel at the same rate , -a circumstance which leads to the formation of a bore in the front of the wave .
Several previously unexplained phenomena , which have been recorded by different experimentalists , such as double reports of fire-arms heard at a great distance , the outrunning of one sound by another observed by Capt. Parry , the comparative powers of different gases of transmitting sounds , and the laws of transmission of sound from one medium to another , are accounted for in this paper , and directly deduced from the integral of the equation of wave-motion .
IV , " 'Contributions towards the History of the Monamines .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 25 , 1858 .
2 .
Action of Bisulphide of Carbon upon Amylamine .
In a note on the alleged transformation of thialdine into leucine , addressed to the Royal Society about eighteen months ago* , I alluded to a crystalline substance observed by Wagner when submitting amylamine to the action of bisulphide of carbon .
This substance was not analysed , but considering its mode of formation , Wagner suggested that it might possibly be thialdine .
C10 la1 N +C2 S4 C2 H13 NS4 .
Amylamine .
Thialdine .
592 A superficial comparison of the properties of thialdine with those of the substance produced by the action of bisulphide of carbon upon amylamine , enabled me at once to recognize the difference of the two bodies ; and satisfied with the result , I did not at the time examine more minutely into the nature of the latter substance .
The new interest conferred upon leucine by recent researches which characterize this substance as capronamic acid , has called my attention back to the sulphuretted derivative of amylamine .
This body may be readily procured by mixing anhydrous amylamine with a solution of dry bisulphide of carbon in anhydrous ether .
The mixture becomes hot , and deposits , on cooling , white shiny scales which are scarcely soluble in ether , and may therefore be purified by washing with this liquid .
The new body is likewise insoluble in water , but readily dissolves in alcohol ; when dry , it may be exposed for a time to a temperature of 100 ?
C. without undergoing fusion ; after some time , however , the substance begins to be liquefied and to undergo complete decomposition .
The same change occurs , although more slowly , at the common temperature , when sulphuretted hydrogen is evolved ; a mixture of free sulphur with a new crystalline substance , extremely fusible , insoluble in water , but soluble both in alcohol and ether , remaining behind .
Analysis has proved that the compound produced by the action of bisulphide of carbon upon amylamine contains C , , H13 NS2 , or rather C,2 H2 N2 S4 ; and that it is formed by the union of 2 equivalents of amylamine with bisulphide of carbon .
2C1O HS13 N+ C , S , -=C2 22 2 N2 S ; Amylamine .
New compound .
A glance at this formula suffices to characterize this compound as amylsulphocarbamate of amylamine .
C221126N 2 S-= C 1013 N , C12 13 NS[( C2 2 ) H( TII ) H1 N2 This view is easily confirmed by experiment .
Addition of hydrochloric acid to the crystalline compound immediately separates an oily liquid , which gradually solidifies , and the acid solution now con593 tains amylamine which may be liberated by potassa .
The oily substance is obviously amylsulphocarbamic acid : it dissolves in ammonia and in potassa ; mixed with amylamine , it reproduces the original crystalline compound .
Experiments with ethylamine have furnished perfectly analogous results .
I have been satisfied to establish qualitatively the analogy of the reactions , It is of some interest to compare the deportment of amylamine under the influence of bisulphide of carbon with that of phenylamine in the same conditions .
If both bodies gave rise to similar changes , we should expect in the case of phenylarnine the formation of phenylsulphocarbamate of phenylamine .
But experiment has proved that phenylamine immediately produces diphenyl-sulphocarbamide ( sulphocarbanilide ) , sulphuretted hydrogen being evolved2 ( C 7 HN ) + C2 S =C26 H12N2 S2 + H2 S2 .
Phenylamine .
Diphenylsulphocarbamide .
Nevertheless it is extremely probable that further experiments will establish a perfect analogy in the deportment of bisulphide of carboll with amylamine and phenylamine .
Diphenyl-sulphocarbamide is probably the product of decomposition of a very unstable phenylsulphocarbamate of phenylamineC26 H1 , N2 Sil= H S , + C2 , H2 , N S , , PhenylsulphoDiphenylsulphocarbamate of carbamide .
phenylamine ?
while a more minute examination of the crystalline substance obtained by the action of heat upon amylsuphocarbamate of amylamine cannot fail to characterize it as diamylsulphocarbamideC22 H1 2 N , SH S2 + C22 2 , , N2 2 ?
AmylsulphocarbiDiamylsulphomate of amylamine .
carbamide .
The apparent dissimilarity of the two reactions would thus be reduced to the unequal stability of the sulphocarbamic acids of the amyland phenyl-series .

