the concentrated rays felt warm , but gave no pain , although applied for ten minutes .
When the heat to a thermometer was 79 ?
, that is at 15 minutes past two o'clock ( including the twelfth figure in the annexed drawing ) , the concentrated rays in four minutes gave pain ; in five minutes blistered the skin , and produced dots ofcoagulable lymph , which became vascular under the eye .
When the heat to a thermometer was 8 ?
o , that is at half past two o'clock , ( including the igth figure of the drawing ) , the concentrated rays in three minutes gave pain ; in four , the part was blistered , and the pain could not longer be endured .
Experiment 6 .
September 8th , 182o , at eleven o'clock , the heat in the sun 900 ; the concentrated rays applied to my naked arm produced a vesicle .
This experiment was repeated when the heat was 84 ?
, and in seven minutes a blister formed on the arm .
Experiment 7 .
September gth , eleven o'clock , the thermometer in the sun at go90 The concentrated rays applied to a piece of black kerseymere cloth , made tight round my arm for 15 minutes , gave no real pain , and left no impression whatever on the skin , although the nap of the cloth had been destroyed .
This experiment was repeated with white kerseymere , the heat at 86 ?
; in in mintes a blister was formed .
Repeated with Irish linen , the thermomenter 86 ? .
In 15 minutes a blister was formed , and coagulable lymph thrown out , which had become vascular .
The same experiment was made with a white , handkerchief loose upon the hand , the heat 83 ? .
In 15 minutes an inflammatory blush was produced over a surface of several inches extent , which almost immediately disappeared on withdrawing the hand from the sun 's rays ... .
Experment 8 .
September l2th .
The sun 's heat at noon 85 ? .
The concentrated rays applied to the back of the hand of a Negro from Grenada for 15 minutes , produced no visible effect ; at the first moment he felt a stab going inwards , but that went off , and afterwards he had no pain .
From these experiments , it is evident that the power of the sun 's rays to scorch the skin of animals is destroyed when applied to a black surface , although the absolute heat , in consequence of the absorption of the rays , is greater .
The same wise providence which has given so extraordinary a provision to the Negro for the defence of his skin , while living within the tropics , has extended it to the bottom of the eye , which otherwise would suffer in a greater or less degree when exposed to strong light ; the retina , from its transparency , allowing it to ' pass through without injury .
That the nigrum pigmentum is not necessary for vision , but only provided as a defence against strong light , is proved by its being darker in the Negro than the European , and being of a lighter colour in fair people than in dark , and therefore lightest in those countries farthest removed from the effects of the sun .
In the monkey it is dark , and in all animals that look upwards .
In all birds exposed to the sun 's rays the nigrum pigmentum is black .
In fishes , the basking shark , which lies upon the surface of the ocean , has a nigrum pigmentur .
The turbot and skate , which lie upon banks of sand in shallow water , have nigrum pigmentum .
In all ruminating animals and birds of prey , there is a lucid tapetum at the bottom of the eye .
The owl , that never sees the sun , has no nigrum pigmenturn .
The mackarel has the bottom of the eye lucid as quicksilver .
The Coup de Soleil , met with in the West Indies , the effects of which I have seen , I attribute to the scorching effect of the sun"s rays upon the scalp .
The Egyptian ophthalmia I consider to be the effect of the sun 's rays , and the glare of reflected light I have stated the fact of the scorching power of the sun 's rays being destroyed when they are applied to black surfaces , but have not gone farther .
Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , to whom I showed these observations , immediately explained it .
He said the radiant heat in the sun 's rays was absorbed by the black surface , and converted into sensible heat .
00 rS 'AT 'H o''CSA 'H Sr11 .
fJ IT'H P/ 1 ' .
or o0 E~ , , Sr JT H So ' IF zS j ?
*i0 '['Z0 ' 0/ ' Z'Z S '* T* Hf y ' IT 'f0 ' fC 'Z o -.P-z/ dZ. .
Z &gt; ,.y .
CMDCC CXXI .
/ ?7fr Z.7 .
6 .
Hff .
A [ .
S I. 162 .
6 Hf .
S- .
S 1 .
j7 .
-0 H. 21.r S f. f. S H. M. S 1 .
2.5 .
0 1 .
0 .
ff .
_S .
s ff .
T. S 2 .
O. O 2 .
1 .
0 H. 21S H. 211 .
S 3 .
8 .
4J 3 .
9.6 2 1C , tyg.'t/ , ,.S _ __ ?
__ 1L I PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. On the black rete mucosum of the Negro , being a defence against the scorching effect of the sun 's rays .
By Sir EVERARD HOME , Bart. F. R. S. Read November 9 , 182o .
To ascertain the use of the black colour of the rete mucosum in the Negro , has occupied the attention of many physiologists ; and I confess that this subject formed the first investigation in which I ever engaged .
Fruitless , indeed , were my attempts ; and when I learnt that black surfaces absorbed heat , and raised the temperature several degrees beyond any others , I gave the matter up in despair .
Two years ago my ' attention was again called to this enquiry , upon being told by our late excellent President , that a silver fish , in a pond at Spring Grove , during a very hot summer , immediately after some trees by which the pond was shaded were cut down , was so much exposed to the sun 's rays as to have its back scorched , the surface putting on the same appearance as after a burn , and rising above the scales of the surrounding skin .
I saw the fish several times , and directions were given to send it to me when it died ; but I was not so fortunate as to receive it .
This extraordinary circumstance brought to my recollection one not less so .
In crossing the Tropic in April , 1781 , at twelve o'clock at noon , in a voyage to the West Indies , I had fallen asleep upon deck , lying upon my back , having a thin linen pair of trousers on , and I had not slept half an hour , when I was awakened by the bustle attending the demand of forfeits on crossing the Line , and found the inside of the upper part of both thighs scorched , the effects of which have never gone off , but till now I could not imagine how it happened , always suspecting it to be the effect of the bites of insects ; but I never satisfied myself upon that subject .
The effect of the sun 's rays upon the fish under water , led me to suspect the mixture of light and heat to be the cause of this scorching effect .
To ascertain the truth of this opinion , I made the following experiments .
Experiment i. In August , 182o , I exposed the back of my hand to the sun at twelve o'clock , with a thermometer attached to it , another thermometer being placed upon a table , with the same exposure .
That on my hand stood at go ?
, the other at io " .
In 45 minutes blisters rose , and coagulable lymph was exuded , which became vascular under my eye ; the pain was very severe .
Experiment 2 .
I exposed my face , my eyelids , and the back of my hand to water heated to 1io ?
: in a few minutes they became painful ; and when the heat was further increased , I could not bear it .
Experiment g. I exposed the backs of my two hands to the sun 's rays , with a thermometer upon each ; the one hand was uncovered , the other had a covering of black cloth , under which the ball of the thermometer was placed .
After ten minutes , the degree of heat of each thermometer was marked , and the appearance on the skin examined .
This was repeated at three different times .
The 1st time the thermometer under the cloth 91 ?
, the other 85 ?
snd time 94 91 3rd time 06 98 In every one of these trials the skin was scorched that was uncovered ; the other had not suffered in the slightest degree ; there was no appearance of perspiration on either hand .
Experiment 4 .
The back of a Negro 's hand was exposed to the sun with a thermometer upon it , which stood at oo0 ?
; at the end of ten minutes the skin had not suffered in the least .
Experiment 5 .
During the eclipse of the sun on September 7 , 1820 , I exposed the back of my hand to the rays concentrated by a double lens of half an inch focus , at three different periods of the eclipse .
When the heat to a thermometer was 750 , that is from 47 to 57 minutes past one'clock , ( including three of the figures in the annexed drawing , made by Mr. BAUER , P1 .
I. )

