XVI .
t " On the Anatomy and Physiology of the Spongiadme .
" Part II .
By J. S. BOWERBANK , LL. D. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , &amp;c. Received June 17 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is a continuation of the first division of the subject published in the Phil. Trans. for 1858 .
In the second part of this division the author treats of the keratode or horny substance of the skeleton , as regards both its physical and chemical characters , with a view of establishing the animal nature of that substance .
In the third part the membranous tissues are described under two heads:1st .
Simple membranous tissues analogous to those of the basement membranes of the higher classes of animals ; and 2nd .
Compound membranous tissues .
These structures consist of simple membranous tissue combined with primitive fibrous tissue .
Their most simple forms exist in the membranes lining the interstitial cavities of the sponge and in the dermal membrane .
In the fourth part the fibrous tissues are described as consisting of three principal divisions .
1st .
Primitive fibrous tissue .
These structures are exceedingly minute , and form an important element in the construction of the compound membranous tissues of the animal .
2nd division .
The fibres of the skeleton are described under the following heads:1st .
Solid simple keratose fibre .
2nd .
Speculated keratose fibre , in which the keratode is the primary element .
3rd .
Multispiculate keratose fibre ; the spicula being the primary element , and the keratode the secondary or cementing medium .
4th .
Inequi-spiculated keratose fibre .
Consisting of skeleton fibres constructed of numerous spicula irregularly dispersed , but congregated into a round or oval massive fibre .
5th .
Simple fistulose fibre .
A keratose fibre having a continuous simple central canal .
6th .
Compound fistulose fibre .
A keratose fibre with a continuous central canal , from which secondary small canals branch at about right angles to the primary one .
7th .
Regular arenated keratose fibre .
Constructed of solid cylindrical fibres , in the centre of which there is a series of grains of saiid or other extraneous matters .
8th .
Irregular arenated keratose fibre .
Consisting of grains of sand or other extraneous matters cemented together into a continuous cylindrical fibre .
In the third division the siliceous fibrous tissues are described as solid cylindrical structures , similar in form to the solid keratose fibres of the second division , but consisting of pure silex in place of keratode .
The fifth part contains descriptions of the cellular structures .
The sixth and last part of this division treats of the physical characters of the sarcode or semi-gelatinoid substance lining the interior cavities of sponges .
PART II.-Organization and Physiology .
The author treats this portion of his subject under the following heads:1st .
The skeleton .
Its general structure and component parts .
Under this head the physiological purposes of the various forms of spicula , treated of in the first part of the paper , are described , and their peculiar offices in the sponge pointed out .
2nd .
The sarcodous system is considered by the author as the homologue of the mucous lining of the stomach and intestines of the higher tribes of animals , and probably as the equivalent of the nervous system also .
3rd .
The interstitial canals are considered as the equivalents of the stomach and alimentary canals of the higher animals .
4th .
The intermarginal cavities , situated immediately beneath the surface , and receiving the incurrent streams from the pores , are believed by the author to be the organs for the secretion of the vital fluids of the animal .
5th .
The dermal membrane , enveloping the whole of the sponge , and in which the inhalant and exhalant orifices of the animal are situated .
6th .
The pores or inhalant orifices .
These organs are not pernlmanent ; i. e. they are opened and closed at the will of the animal , and when once closed seldom occur again in precisely the same spot .
7th .
The oscula or excurrent orifices , usually permanent organs , and capable of being opened or closed in accordance with the necessities of the animal .
8th .
Inhalation and exhalation .
Two modes of these operations are described ; one as occasional or intermittent , but very powerfiul for the imbibition of nutriment ; the other gentle and continuous for the purposes of the aeration of the vital fluids , and for the ejection of digested matters .
9th .
Nutrition .
The modes of imbibition and periods of digestion are treated of , and the author describes a series of contrivances by which some sponges are in possession of peculiar organs which enable them to prey upon annelids or other soft creatures that may crawl over their surface or intrude within their cavities or canals .
10th .
Cilia and ciliary action .
The accounts of the cilia of the gemmules or ova , as described by Dr. Grant and other writers , are referred to by the author ; and the same organs in situ in Grantia compressa are pointed out as the powers on which inhalation and exhalation are dependent .
1 l th .
Reproduction , gemmules , &amp;c. Under this head the ovaries , ova , and gemmular modes of propagation , are described under five heads:1st .
Ova without an ovarium .
2nd .
Ova generated within ovaria .
3rd .
Gemmules secreted within the sponge .
4th .
Gemmules produced externally .
5th .
By spontaneous division of the sarcode .
The remaining portions of the paper , consisting of observations on the generic characters , the specific characters , and on the mode of examination , will form the subject of a future communication .

