Enquiries for Greenland .
To discharge our Promise made in the last Transactions , we shall subjoyn the following Queries , which we also purpose to recommend in due season , to some of those English Masters of Ships , and other fit persons , that shall Sail into Greenland for the Whale-fishing ; entreating withal , as many as have convenience , to assist us in these recommendations .
The Enquiries are , 1 .
WHat , and how much is the heat of the Sun there in the midst of the Summer , compared with the heat of it in England ?
to be observed with a sealed Thermometer .
2 .
What is the most constant weather there in Summer , whether Clear , Cloudy , Rainy , Foggy ?
&amp;c. 3 .
What weather is most usual at such and such times of the year ?
4 .
What constancy or inconstancy there is of the Wind to this or that quarter of the Horizon , or to this or that part of the year ?
5 .
What the Temperature of each particular Wind is observed to be ?
And particularly , whether the North-Wind be the coldest ?
If not , what wind is ?
whether is the colder , the East or West , &amp;c. 6 .
What Wind is observed to bring most Ice , and what to make a clear Water at Sea ?
7 .
What Currents there are ?
How fast , and which way they set ?
Whether those Currents are not stronger at one time of the Moon than at another ?
Whether they always run one way ?
8 .
What is observable about the Tides , Spring or Neap ?
How high the High-water Mark is above the Low-water ?
Which way it flows ?
Which way it ebbeth ?
What time of the Moon the Spring-tides fall out ?
9 .
Whether the Ice that floats in the Sea be of salt Water or fresh ?
10 .
What Rivers there are in the Summer , and what fresh Water can be had ?
11 .
What fowl are found to live there , and what Beasts ?
How they are thought to subsist in Winter ?
How they breed and feed their young ?
12 .
What Vegetables grow there , and whether they yield any Flowers or Fruits ?
&amp;c. 13 .
Whether there have been any Thunder or Lightning observed in those parts ?
14 .
How deep the Cold penetrates into the Earth ?
Whether there be any Wells , Pits , or Mines so deep , that the Cold does not touch the bottom thereof ?
15 .
How the Land tends ?
and whether the Parts under or near the Pole be by those , that have gone farthest that way , thought to be Sea or Land ?
How near any hath been known to approach the Pole , and whether the Cold increases with the increase of Latitude ?
16 .
To make , if possible , some Experiments and Observations about the Magnet or Needle ; and particularly , how much the Declination is there ?
and whether they do exactly observe the Degrees of Declination in their course ?
Likewise to make Observations about the Height of the Sun , and other Celestial Bodies , and their Diameter , Refractions ?
&amp;c. 17 .
What is their opinion concerning the North-east passage ?
18 .
What Fish do most frequent those Seas , besides Whales ?
Any thing observable in their Fishing , as the usual or unusual bigness , strength , and the several sorts of Whales ; and particularly to observe whether that kind of Whales they call Trompa , have in their Heads the Sperma Ceti , and in their Entrails the Ambergrcese , looking like Cows-dung , as was alleged out of Purchase in Numb. 28 .
page .
538 ?
19 .
To give in an exact Relation of the Whale-fishing , throwing the Harp-Irons , following the Fish , &amp;c. 20 .
To describe the whole manner of making the Oil of Whales .

