Remarks on the Probabilities of Error in Physical Observations , and on the Density of the Earth , considered , especially with regard to the Reduction of Experiments on the Pendulum .
In a Letter to Capt. Henry Kater , F.R.S. By Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. Read January 21 , 1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1819 , p. 70 .
] In the first section of this letter , Dr. Young proceeds to examine in what manner the apparent constancy of many general results , subject to numerous causes of diversity , may be best explained ; and shows that the combination of many independent causes of error , each liable to incessant fluctuation , has a natural tendency , dependent on their multiplicity and independence , to diminish the aggregate variation of their joint effect ; a position illustrated by the simple case of supposing an equal large number of black and white balls to be thrown into a box , and 100 of them to be drawn out at once or in succession ; when it is demonstrated that thhere is 1 chance in 121 ; that exactly 50 , of each kind will be drawn , and an even chance that there will not be more than 53 of either ; and that it is barely possible that 100 black , or 100 white , should be drawn in succession .
From calculations contained in this paper , Dr. Young infers that the original conditions of the probability of different errors do not considerably modify the conclusions respecting the accuracy of the mean result , because their effect is comprehended in the magnitude of the mean error from which these conclusions are deduced .
The author also shows that the error of the mean , on account of this limitation is never likely to be greater than six sevenths of the mean of all the errors divided by the square root of the number of observations .
The author then proceeds to the application of the doctrine of chances to matters of literature and history .
He shows that with respect to the relation of two languages , nothing can be inferred from the coincidence of the sense of any single word ; that the odds would be 3 to 1 against the agreement of two words ; but if three were identical , it would then be more than 10 to 1 that they were derived from the same parent language .
Six words give 1700 chances to 1 , and eight near 100,000 ; so that , in these last cases , the evidence would approach certainty .
In regard to history , Dr. Young remarks , that the mention of a single number found indisputably correct may afford strong evidence of the veracity of a historian .
There is a manuscript of Diodorus Siculus , in which , describing the Egyptian funerals , he gives forty-two for the number of persons who sat in judgement on the merits of the deceased ; and in a multitude of ancient rolls of papyrus , lately found in Egypt , forty-two assistants of Osiris are delineated on a similar occasion .
Hence it is 100 to 1 that this manuscript is more accurate than others which have been collated ; that Diodorus Siculus was a faithful historian ; that the inscriptions related to some kind of judgement ; and that the hieroglyphics have been truly interpreted .
The second section of Dr. Young 's letter relates to the mean density of the earth .
Before we admit that the excess of density of the central parts of the earth , compared with its superficies , renders it probable that the whole was once fluid , we should inquire into the exclusive effect of pressure in augmenting the mean density .
From this inquiry , Dr. Young makes it evident , that the general law , of a compression proportionate to the pressure , is amply sufficient to explain the greater density of the interior of the earth ; and that this law , which is true for small pressures in all substances , and with regard to elastic fluids , in all circumstances , requires some little modification for solids and liquids , the resistance in them increasing somewhat faster than the density ; for no mineral substance is light and incompressible enough to afford a sphere as large as the earth , and of the same specific gravity , without some such deviation from the general law .
A sphere eit ; her of water or of air would be much denser : indeed the moon , if perforated and containing deep cavities , would soon have absorbed her atmosphere , supposing she ever had one .
The author 's letter concludes with some remarks on Euler 's formula for the rolling pendulum , from which the perfect accuracy of Laplace 's theorems for the length of the convertible pendulum rolling on equal cylinders may be inferred , without any limitation of their magnitude , or of the form of the pendulum .
It also affords the proper correction for the arc of vibration .

