40 Dr. T. W. Eden .
" The Occurrence of nutritive Fat in the Human Placenta .
A Preliminary Communication .
" By Thomas Watts Eden , M.D. , M.R.C.P. Communicated by Dr. Pie Smith , F.R.S. Received April 23 , \#151 ; Read May 7 , 1896 .
( From the Laboratories of the Conjoint Board of the Royal Colleges of Physicians ( Bond .
) and Surgeons ( Eng. ) ) .
Recently , while examining specimens of ripe placentas for fatty degeneration , I was struck by the regularity of the occurrence of fat in this structure , and especially by the nature and extent of its distribution .
I was then led to examine a series of specimens taken at different periods of gestation , with the result that a free deposit of fat was found in ten different placentae , all of which I believe to be non-pathological ; and ranging practically through all periods of gestation , from the sixth week up to term .
The method employed for the demonstration of this fat , was to take slices from different parts of the placenta , and harden them for a few days in Muller s fluid ; then to transfer thin strips , not exceeding one-third of an inch in thickness , to Marchi 's fluid ( 1 per cent , solution of osmic acid 1 part , Muller 's fluid 2 parts ) for a week .
The pieces were then embedded in paraffin , cut with a rocking microtome , and stained lightly with saffranine , eosine , or logwood and eosine , or mounted unstained .
By this process the fat is completely blackened , while the other tissues retain their normal staining reactions , so that the outlines of the fat-containing cells can be distinctly made out .
By this method I have been able to demonstrate the constant occurrence of fat in certain well-defined regions of the human placenta .
In the young human placenta , the epithelial covering of the villi consists of two layers , a superficial , nucleated , plasmodial layer , and a deep cellular layer .
In a six weeks ' ovum I found fat in the form of minute droplets in both these layers , but much more abundantly in the former than in the latter .
These fat droplets show comparatively little variation in size , and they remain discrete , showing little or no tendency to form larger droplets by fusion ; they are confined to the perinuclear protoplasm , and are never found in the nuclei , which remain unaltered in number , form , and arrangement .
The stroma of these villi contains here and there a trace of fat , but it is apparently healthy , and is furnished with well-formed wide capillaries filled with blood .
The villi are , in fact , to all appearance healthy .
Every villus does not show this deposit of fat , but- it is present in very large numbers of them ; in every field of the microscope several villi The Occurrenceoj nutritive Fat the Human Placenta .
41 containing fat may be found .
The amount of fat also varies considerably .
In a young ovum the plasmodial layer of the villi shows great proliferative activity ; it throws out numerous club-shaped processes or buds , which represent the first stage in the development of new villi .
These buds very frequently contain large numbers of minute fat droplets .
1 believe that this is a point of very great importance , showing , as it does , that the deposit of fat occurs in actively growing tissues of undoubted vitality .
In the ripe placenta the proliferation of the plasmodial layer has ceased , and degenerative changes are present in scattered regions .
But , of course , the great majority of the villi retain their vitality , and in these villi a free deposit of fat is present , showing the same distribution and characters as in the young placenta .
I have also found a similar deposit of fat in the serotina .
The six weeks ' ovum , above referred to , showed very many decidual cells containing minute , discrete droplets of fat in the perinuclear protoplasm .
" A placenta of the sixth month also showed an abundant fat deposit in the same region .
At term , the serotina shows many degenerative changes , and although it contains fat , it may well be doubted whether , at this period , this is a physiological deposit .
The placenta , indeed , appears to be a storehouse of nutritive fat , just as is the liver .
This appears to throw some light on what has long been one of the problems of foetal physiology , viz. , the source from which the foetus obtains its supplies of fat .
Diffusible substances such as sugar , salts , peptones , \amp ; c. , were supposed to pass by osmosis from the maternal blood in the inter-villous spaces , to the foetal blood in the villi .
But this could not be assumed of indiffusible substances such as fat .
The truth would seem to be that fat is deposited from the maternal blood in the epithelium of the villi , and stored up there by the foetal tissues for their use .
No great accumulation of fat occurs , as it appears to be from time to time absorbed and disposed of by the foetal circulation .
It is , however , not altogether clear how a deposit of fat in the decidual cells can be made available for the purposes of foetal nutrition .
Since finding this fat deposit in the human placenta , I have begun a series of comparative observations upon the placentae of other mammals .
Up to the time of writing , I have examined two rabbits ' placentae , one from an early , and the other from a late , period of gestation .
In both there was a marked deposit of fat , chiefly in the superficial glandular layer of the maternal placenta , but also , though to a less extent , in the processes of the chorionic mesoblast , which form the homologues of the villi of the human placenta .
The process appears to correspond closely to that observed by Mr. George Brook , in the transmission of fat from the yolk to 42 Mr. E. A. Minchin .
Note on the Larva and the the segmenting germinal area , by the parablast of mesoblastic ova.* I was under the impression when these observations were made , that fat had never been found , in this form , in the placenta before .
I find that I am to some extent anticipated by a paper in the ' Archiv fur Gynaekologie , ' February , 1896.f One of the authors ( Aschoff ) wished to examine a malignant uterine growth , which he believed to be of the nature of Reci Before doing so , he examined several specimens of young human ova , in order , as he says , to learn something of the structure of growing chorionic villi .
Some of the specimens he hardened in Flemming 's solution , and in all of these he found fat in the plasmodial layer of the villi .
Aschoff 's description of the fat deposit agrees very closely with that already given of my own specimen .
" An den Flemmingschen Praparaten ist das Syncytium dadurch ausgezeicbnet , dass es in seiner Randzone eine dichte Anhaufung feinster Fetttropfchen tragt .
Dieselbe sind bald sehr fein , bald grobkornig , aber in den betreffenden Abschnitten des Syncytiums stets von gleicher Gross ... ... ... .Die Fetttropfchen iiberall sich finden , wo Chorionepithelzellen , in directesten Stoff wechselaustausch mit den Intervillosenraumen treten " fp .
531 ) .
Aschoff scarcely appreciates the physiological importance of the observation , but there can be no doubt that his observations and my own are mutually confirmatory .
'4 Note on the Larva and the Postlarval Development of Leucosolenia variahilis , H. sp. , with Remarks on the Development of other Asconidse .
" By E. A. Minchin , M.A. , Fellow of Merton College , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , F.R.S. Received April 25 , \#151 ; Read May 21 , 1896 .
Introductory Remarks .
Through the kind hospitality of Professor de Lacaze-Duthiers , I was able to spend the spring and summer of last year at the marine laboratories of Banyuls-sur-Mer and Roscoff , where I was chiefly engaged in studying the embryology of the Ascons .
In Banyuls I obtained the larvae of Leucosolenia , H. sp. , in June , and of L. reticulum , O.S. sp. , in July .
In Roscoff I found the larvae of L. variabilis , H. sp. , all through August and the early part of September , * " Formation of the Germinal Layers in Teleostei , " ' Roy .
Soc. Edin .
Trans./ 1896 .
t ' Ueber bosartige Tumoren der Chorionzotten , " Apfelstedt und Aschoff .

