284 Mr. A. M. Gossage .
On the [ June 7 is , next fco proteid , the most widely distributed substance in the animal organism .
As Hammarsten bas well said , " it has been found wherever it has been looked for .
" Whenever I have stated that lecithin is present in any fibrinogen , I have prepared it and tested for it in the way I have previously repeatedly described in the papers Dr. Halliburton quotes .
IV .
The criticisms which Dr. Halliburton passes upon my discovery that tissue fibrinogens cause intravascular clotting when injected into the living circulation , can hardly be regarded seriously ; for he asserts that the tissue fibrinogen is a slimy mass , and causes clotting by mechanically plugging the vessels , whereas if he had repeated my experiments he would have found ( 1 ) that the fibrinogen is not at all slimy , and ( 2 ) that it can hardly be supposed to cause clotting mechanically , since it passes through the right heart , then the capillaries of the lungs , next the left heart and aorta , and finally the capillaries of the alimentary canal before it first causes clotting , i.e.y in the portal vein in the dog .
IV .
" Note on the Volumetric Determination of Uric Acid .
" By A. M. GOSSAGE , B.A. , Oxon .
Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , F.B.S. Received May 29 , 1888 .
Dr. Haycraft has recently proposed a method for the volumetric determination of uric acid in urine ( ' Brit. Med. Journ. , ' 1885 , 2 , p. 1100 ) which has great advantages over all former methods in that it is much quicker and easier to manage .
The uric acid from 25 c.c. of urine is precipitated by silver nitrate after previous addition of sodium carbonate ( to prevent reduction ) and ammonia ( to dissolve silver chloride , \amp ; c. ) ; this precipitate is then collected , washed , and dissolved in nitric acid , and the amount of silver present in this solution ascertained by Volhard 's method , * , \#171 ; .
, .
titration with ammonium sulphocyanate ; from this the amount of uric acid can be calculated .
** In order to test the accuracy of the process , " he says , " I prepared several solutions of acid urate of sodium of known strength .
To these I added various quantities of common salt , magnesium sulphate , and phosphate of soda in order to imitate as far as possible the urinary secretion .
On estimating the uric acid in these solutions , I obtained wonderfully correct results .
In all cases not much more than a milligramme was lost during the process , and may be simply accounted for by the fact that no salt of uric acid is absolutely i# soluble . . . . .
In order further to test its accuracy , 50 c.c. of urine were divided into two equal portions ; to the first 25 c.c. of solution of acid urate of sodium of known strength were added ; to 1888 .
] Volumetric Determination of Uric Acid .
285 the second 25 c.c. of water were added .
When estimated the two fluids should show a difference equal to the quantity of salt added .
" Results very closely corresponding to this were obtained .
These results do not agree with results obtained by Salkowski ( Pfliiger 's 'Archiv , ' vol. 5 , 1872 , p. 210 ) and Maly ( Pfliiger 's j'Archiv , ' vol. 6 , p. 201 ) .
Salkowski proposed a volumetric method for the determination of uric acid , very similar to that proposed by Dr. Haycraft ; in this he added excess of silver nitrate and estimated the excess of silver present .
He gave up this method , however , as on examining the silver precipitate obtained from urine , after complete precipitation of the phosphates by magnesia mixture , he found that it contained magnesium as well as silver , and that the proportion of magnesium to silver varied considerably in precipitates from different urines , though constant for the same urine .
Haycraft considers that the presence and variation in amount of magnesium in these precipitates may be due to varying quantities of magnesium ammonium phosphate in them .
This is , however , impossible , as the phosphates were precipitated by Salkowski previously , and the urine allowed to stand for twenty-four hours before filtration to ensure their complete separation .
Salkowski 's results were confirmed by Maly , who found that if in the presence of salts of calcium , magnesium , potassium , and ammonium , a solution of a urate be precipitated by silver nitrate , the precipitate contains these metals as urates as well as silver urate .
As a test of the accuracy of Haycraft 's method , I examined samples of various urines both by his method and by Salkowski 's method , which is universally acknowledged to be the most reliable , and the accuracy of which has been proved by experimental evidence .
This method consists in taking 250 c.c. of urine , adding 50 c.c. of magnesia mixture to precipitate phosphates , and then adding to 240 c.c. of the filtrate ( which are equivalent to 200 c.c. of the urine ) silver nitrate to precipitate the uric acid .
This precipitate of silver urate is decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen after being suspended in water .
The liquid is then acidified , filtered hot , and evaporated to small bulk , and the uric acid allowed to crystallise out .
These crystals are then dried and weighed .
The following results were obtained :\#151 ; 286 On the Volumetric Determination of XJric Acid .
[ June 7 1 c.c. NH4CNS = 0-00168 Uric Acid .
Salkowski ( 200 c.c. urine ) .
Hay craft ( 25 c.c. urine ) .
Expt. Quantity of uric acid obtained .
Mean percentage .
No. of c.c. of NH4CNS required .
Mean equivalent quantity of uric acid .
Per- centage .
i. 0 .
168 gr. 0-084 ( a. ) 16 " 2 c.c. ( b. ) 16-3 " | 0-027 0-108 ii .
0 *07 gr. 0-035 ( a. ) 11 *8 c.c. ( 5 .
) 11-4 " ( c. ) 11-0 " | 0-019 0 076 ni.-T l ( a. ) 0-098 gr. ( b. ) 0-1045 " u-v- ' o I 6 ( a. ) 12 " 3 c.c. ( 6 .
) 12 1 " O 9 o 0-082 IT{ ( a.)0 -068 gr. ( 6 .
) 0-073 " | 0-035 ( a. ) 10*7 c.c. ( 6 .
) 11-1 " J- 0-018 0 072 T-{ ( a. ) 0 *154 gr. ( 6 .
) 0-160 " ( c. ) 0-165 " j- 0-08 ( a. ) 16 *3 c.c. ( 6 .
) 16-4 " l 0-027 0-108 The results obtained by Haycraft 's method were always considerably higher than those obtained by Salkowski 's .
The reason oi this is that Dr. Hay craft has assumed that the silver precipitate from urine consists of an urate containing only 1 atom of silver in the molecule , whereas the proportion of silver in this precipitate if always larger , and varies in amount in different urines .
If we assume that the precipitate contains 2 atoms of silver in a molecule of urate and divide the results obtained by Haycraft 's method by two , we see that in two cases they are about equal to , in the rest less than those obtained by Salkowski 's method .
The proportion of the results obtained by one method to those obtained by the other varies .
This agrees with the results of Salkowski 's researches , from which one would expect that the results obtained by Haycraft 's method woujd not bear a constant relation to the results obtained by Salkowskis , and that the halves of the results by the former method would $0 lower than , in most cases , those obtained by the latter .

