166 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ June 19 The employment of various fluids for immersion lenses is carefully considered ; and the singular property of castor oil discovered by the writer is referred to .
As the Society honoured the writer by inserting in their " Transactions " a paper on " A Searcher for Aplanatic Images , " he now introduces a new form which offers some advantages : by its extended traverse , by its simplicity and economy of light with increase of magnifying power .
Finally , some examples are given of producing transcendent definition in cases found hopeless by a numerous body of observers ; as the papers written in " The Monthly Microscopical Journal " during the last ten years abundantly demonstrate .
The means also of its attainment are minutely described .
VII .
" Note on 'Spectroscopic Papers .
' " By G. D. Liyeing , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received May 29 , 1879 .
In a recent communication to the Royal Society , Mr. Lockyer has criticised our statement of Young 's wave-length identifications of certain chromospheric lines .
As to the wave-length , we have throughout our table omitted all figures after the decimal point merely for the sake of not cumbering the table .
The numbers , Young tells us , are not his own , but taken from Angstrom 's catalogue .
Moreover , as to Young 's identifications with metallic lines , he states expressly that they were taken from the maps of Kirchhoff , Angstrom , and Thalen , and Watts 's " Index of Spectra .
" But our object was not to criticise Young 's work , but only to use it for the purpose of comparing the behaviour of certain metals on the earth and in the sun , and the conditions under which certain lines appear , or do not appear , or are reversed .
We should perhaps have made our meaning clearer if we had given another column with the wave-lengths of the metallic lines referred to side by side with Young 's numbers for the chromospheric lines .
We mentioned , in relation to aluminium , the two lines with wave-lengths 6245'4 and 6237'3 seen by Young , not because we thought their identity with the aluminium lines proved , but because they are the only two lines in Young 's table which are at all close to aluminium lines , and if they be not due to that metal , then we have the remarkable fact that aluminium in the .
sun gives no lines either dark or bright except the two which have been reversed on the earth .
A somewhat similar remark applies to the potassium lirfes , only in that case .
Young 's line has a wave-length very nearly the mean of the two 1879 .
] Note on " Spectroscopic 167 potassium lines which , are often seen as one , not merely from want of dispersive power ( which with prisms is usually sufficient at the violet end ) , but because the lines are expanded until they meet .
We at first saw them reversed as one broad line which divided in two as the potassium evaporated .
Mr. Lockyer complains that we omitted to refer to his work on the wave-length of the potassium lines .
In our first communication on the subject of reversals we named at the outset those who had been previously engaged in the same field , and after referring to their work in general terms we did not think it desirable subsequently to notice the specific results obtained by each individual .
As neither the existence of the two potassium lines nor the exact determination of their wave-lengths , but only the identification of the dark lines we observed with the bright lines was in question , we considered it unnecessary to mention specially Mr. Lockyer 's work on those lines .
We owe it to the Society to explain the value which is to be attached to the wave-lengths mentioned by us .
We have never set ourselves to determine exact wave-lengths ; but we sought to determine the conditions of reversal , and we used wave-lengths for the convenience of indicating the lines of which we wrote .
In very few cases have we given any determinations of wave-lengths .
In general we determined the identity of a dark line with the corresponding bright line by observing that both had the same place on the cross-wires , or pointer , or both gave the same reading of the scale of the spectroscope .
We then gave the wave-length of the bright line as determined by some good authority , usually either Thalen or Boisbaudran .
When we could not identify the dark lines in that way , we took the readings of known lines with our spectroscope , using , for lack of sunshine , most frequently Boisbaudran 's method and wave-lengths , and having drawn a curve , determined the wave-lengths of the dark lines therefrom .
It was in this way that we obtained the wave-lengths of the two dark lines we ascribed to potassium .
It is , of course , just within the bounds of possibility that the line for which we obtained the wave-length 4045 ( it is misprinted 4044 in the table , but not in the text ) may have been an iron line reversed , but , as the principal well-known lines of potassium were at the same time seen bright in the spectrum while those of iron were not seen , it is far more probable , almost certain , that the line was really due to potassium , and the last figure of the wave-length wrongly determined .
By giving exactly what we observed , we have enabled our readers to judge for themselves what is most probable in this case .
To attempt to determine wave-lengths to any greater degree of nicety would , so far as our purpose was concerned , have been labour thrown away .
Whenever the wave-length of a line observed by us to be reversed is given differently from that given by 168 Mr. G. H. Darwin .
[ June 19 , Thalen and that given by Boisbaudran for the bright line to which we assume it to correspond , it was determined in the way above described , and must not be taken to have more importance .
By our method of working , the very , high dispersive power required for the specific identification of any substance by the determination of an individual wave-length is avoided ; as we depend on the greatly diminished likelihood of error when several groups of lines of the same substance are seen to be continually present at the time of one dr more reversals .
It was the necessity of being able to rapidly sweep the entire spectrum for the above purpose that caused us to limit the dispersion .
A large majority of the wave-lengths given by Thalen were obtained by means of the moderate dispersion of one bisulphide of carbon prism , a less dispersion than we have used ; and it would be incorrect to suppose that no enduring work in this field of spectroscopy can be effected except with the enormous dispersive power which Mr. Lockyer recommends .
VIII .
" The Determination of the Secular Effects of Tidal Friction by a Graphical Method .
" By G. H. Darwin , M.A. , formerly Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. Glaisher , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 31 , 1879 .
j Suppose an attractive particle or satellite of mass m to be moving in a circular orbit , with an angular velocity Q , round a planet of mass M , and suppose the planet to be rotating about an axis perpendicular to the plane of the orbit , with an angular velocity n ; suppose , also , the mass of the planet to be partially or wholly imperfectly elastic or viscous , or that there are oceans on the surface of the planet ; then the attraction of the satellite must produce a relative motion in the parts of the planet , and that motion must be subject to friction , or , in other words , there must be frictional tides of some sort or other .
The system must accordingly be losing energy by friction , and its configuration must change in such a way that its whole energy : diminishes .
Such a system does not differ much from those of actual planets and satellites , and , therefore , the results deduced in this hypothetical case must agree pretty closely with the actual course of evolution , : provided that time enough has been and will be given for such changes .
Let C be the moment of inertia of the planet about its axis ofl rotation ; r the distance of the satellite from the centre of the planet ; | Ti the resultant moment of momentum of the whole system ; e the whole energy , both kinetic and potential of the system .

