]\gt ; 498 Dr. W. Marcet on the of piration at [ Apr. 24 , .
' ' A Summary of an Inquiry into the Function of Respiration at Various Altitudes on the Island and Peak of Teneriffe By , F.R.S. Received March 31 , I879 .
On the 19th March of last year , I presented to the Royal Society a short summary of an iuquiry on the function of respiration at various altitudes in the Alps .
The principal result obtained was that a greater quantity of carbonic acid was formed in the body and exhaled at the higher than at the lower stations .
Thus , after experimenting on a spot near the Lake of Geneva , at an altitude of 1,230 feet , and at the summit of the Breithorn , at an altitude of lS,688 feet , there was found to be an excess of 15 per cent. for the carbonic acid expired at the highest station .
I had come to the conclusion that the increased formation of carbonic acid in the body at certain altitudes in the Alps appeared necessary , as a means of resisting the infiuence of cold which is occasionally very great in high AIpine regions .
The question which now offered itself for inquiry was whether , on rising to a considerable altitude above the sea in a warm climate , there would be , as I had found in the Alps , an increase of the carbonic acid expired .
After some consideration , the Peak of Teneriffe , in north latitude , was selected as the ] best ] ated for investigating the subject .
The advantages of this site were manifold .
First , a mean temperature in the day time , which proved to be not lower than in the shade , could be secured at an altitude above 10,000 feet ; next as the mountain rose from the sea , various stations , beginning at the se , aside , might be selected ; then fine weather could be relied upon June and July , on the Island of Tencl'ffie ; finally , the spot was situated at an accessible distance from England .
It took me three weeks to collect the necessary instruments , among which was a wooden shed , taking to pieces and made to in a comparatively small space .
It consisted of six deal boards constructed so as to fit side by side with overlaping edges ; when nlounted , they formed a flat square roof .
The four corners of this roof were supported by four poles held by tent ropes and pegs ; broad strips of canvas were nailed to two opposite sides of the roof and spread out , being held in position by strings and pegs .
The boards covered a squal .
of 6 feet on each side and the sheltered area was much increased by the canvas .
The shed was placed lengthways as nearly as possible in the direction of the course of the sun , and by this means we could work all day long in the shade , a necessal'y condition for the success of the inquiry .
My expcrimental included two large baskets llolding abont 150 bottlos of a capacit .
of rather more than 100 cclltims .
each , Altitudes on the lsland and Peak of Tereeriffe .
499 and full of a titered solution of barium hydl.ate , in addition to which there were a number of empty bottles of the same size .
The holding the alkaline solution were carefully corked and the corks ealed with paraffin .
I must also allude to two strong deal boards or rocking-boards , 6 feet in and supplied with two iroll midway between the two ends ; the sockets fitted upon an iron raised a few inches high on a firm wooden stand .
Two square open wooden boxes were made to fasten at one end of each board respeclively , and could be filled with stones 0 sand up to a given weight .
The tlse of these boards will be explained in the coursc of the present commullication .
In addition to he above apparatus I vitlt n a balance and required ining .
the moisture expired from used in Alps was also cluded , together requisite for out on the Poak for about three weeks .
My Chamounix guide , Cupelin , who has ccompanied me for the last ten ycars in the Alps , is used to the manipulations cotlnected with my out with me to Teneriffe .
He 1lot only assisted me 1uost also submitted himself to experillleltt .
We arrived at the Island of the ) of Junc last , and after at , proceeded at once to Pucrto dc at the foot of the Peak .
principal stations were selected , two at different altitudes 011 the Peak , and one the scaside ; while from the highest station could be carried to the foot of tel.millal cone , to the lnnlit of ] Peak ) feet above the sea , I ) oposed few expcriments .
We remained } vcst station on Peak , at an altitude of the station 10,700 fcct ave sea .
Tho ch actcrs of my experiments we 1 .
position and pressure .
2 .
of .
The tntc of the atmosphcre .
1st . .
bfy lowest station on tho Peak , of Guaj situated on tcau at the foot of Mount .
established all at Humlnit mountain roso OU feet in { ho , whilc in osite d of to clay , sull .
could bc seen a bauk of ocks of thor , which formed the edge of an upper ting ) Iovcl foot of the l'eak at a distallCC of or .
The hent of sun 500 Dr. .
Marcct on Fnnction of Ifespi , at [ Apr. 24 , that station was interlse , as my tent was erected in a hollow , and the sand becamc so hot in the afternoon that the hand could not bear being kept in connct with it .
The mean of twenty-two readings of a Fortin barometer , by Casella , compared with the observations of Professor Smyth , taken at sea near the coast of Teneriffe , in 1856 , at a similar time of the year , or nearly so , gave an altitudc of 7,090 feet above the sea for that station .
The stations Alps where my former experiments had been carried out , and corresponding in altitude with my Guajara station on Teneriffc , } } ere the Riffel ( 8,425 feet ) and St. Bernard ( 8,115 feet ) , these however being rather over 1,000 fect higher .
The highcst of my principal stations on Teneriffe was that of Alta Vista , where Mr. Piazzi Smyth also resided in 1856 .
This was near the summit of the Peak on a small " " plateau , " " occurring in a break between lava streams .
This station faced an easterly aspect ; in the evening a cold westerly wind ofteh blew , sweeping down from the summit and feeling exceedingly chilly .
The altitude of this station according to Piazzi Smyth , is 10,702 feet .
An accident to my barometer just before leaving Guajara put an end to barometrical readings , but an observation as to the temperature of boiling water at Alta Vista gave me exactly the heig.ht as determined by Professor Smyth .
This altitude compares well with that of St. Theodule , 10,899 feet , one of my stations in the Alps .
The .
trade winds cause a belt of clouds to hover over the island ; I entered this layer of fog at an altitude of 8,200 feet , and left it at 5,500 feet , its thickness amounting therefore to 2,300 feet .
My stations on the Peak were of course above the clouds ; on one occasion only did I see them from Alta Vista make an irruption into the wide plateau at the foot of the peak between 6,000 and 7,000 feet high , but they soon withdrew .
2nd , .\mdash ; The sky was cloudless till the last day , when a few light clouds appeared overhead , and the sun being nearly vertical at noon , in July , its direct heat was very great , although air was much less warm in the shade ; on the other hand the cold very sharp at night .
While the sandy of the soil was so two or thrce o'clock in the afternoon , that the hand could not bear to be pressed against it , water left outsidc the tcnt in a 1uucket or in plates was on occasions found frozen next mornin just before sunrise .
I had no black bulb thermometer in vacuo for observing the solar radiation , but Professor found on the summit of Mount Guaiara over F. , with such an instrument by half-past nine o'clock in the morning , and he concludes that on August 4th , tlIc black bulb emperature in the sun must have been ermometer reading in the shade being only , thus leaving the enormous tity of for the effect of sunshine at 1879 .
] on and ] a height of 8,900 fact .
( P. Smyt Tcneriffc\mdash ; an Astronomcr 's iments.\ldquo ; my first stntion was 1,810 fcet below thnt at which Piazzi 's observations were made , I cannot think the dircct solar heab notably less .
I at a large box , and had it perforated with holcs on evel .
side to allow of free access of .
into it .
This box used crecn for my mometers ; if I mi not , a plnn ccll npted by Professor Smyth .
The hcreen was placed under my shed , herel ) sheltered from the SU11 .
lVhilc on my ions , I orking under a temperaturc of 3 at St. hcodulc , and and at Riffel and St. Bernard , my on Pcak of Teneriffe was from to the , ftnd rosc the rher t on the Alps ; in fact I the day time exposed to a climate lnncl , wnrmer that tions ; so for , therefore , m3 objcct , .
to of .
cold at reat a bovo 3 ness of air in the tillC was remal]-able , the rencc betwecll the ) bulb readings fact ) { llld nt feet ) hilc at dc the bidc , difference fell to I never conscious of as ( lry , with throat parched at tinlcs .
evaporation from skin must ) so the sea , such dry so a slll .
The inquiry mfty bc divi dcd ) : The first tlJe respiratory rions , in turc .
Tho sccolld , ) ) ) hilc fiuife :oullt ( llluscultl the of .
al I shall to to ) whil ) thnt itdo } that i ot , to of of bnrium , 1 not the ) ) of ] fter { .
tl so ( to ) of duly used tmon ) of } ) for o02 Dr. W. Marcet on the Function of Respiration at [ Apr. 24 , The air from the lungs was expired into a strong india-rubber bag of a known capacity undel a pressure of one inch of water .
The ba , used in nearly every experiment held litres of air under that proesure ; and iu experiments made while engaged with a measured amount of muscular work , a bag holding 684litres of air under the same pressure was employed .
The tube into which the expired air was drawn for analysis was supplied with india-rubber diverticulum ) in my former communication , and I made occasional use of it to take out small quantities of air test them with a solution of barium hydrate .
I thus observed that a continued agitation of five minutes sufficed for the cntire combinfttion of the carbonic acid .
In every experiment the itation was continued for six or seven minutes or longer , by the watch .
The bottles , into which the fluid was after itation , were wcll corked , and their necks dipped into melted paraffin .
Although large enough for somewhat more than the bulk of the fluid they contained , the empty space was too small for the air it held to affect the aline solution .
My Chamounix guide was practised in the mode of breathing into the bag , so that I could upon his this in a perfectly natural way , and without the loss of any of the air expired ; he was also in the habit of counting his expirations while so engaged .
We assistod each other mutually ; one of us keeping an eye on the stop-watch and the bag , while other was into it .
After sitting quiet for a few minutes , the mouth was applied to the lnouthpiece , and at the very beginning of the first expiration , a sign made and tlJe stop-watch started .
When the was nearly , the water in the auge began to rise , and the instant it the height of one inch , the watch was stopped .
The time to fill the was then read off , aml the temperature of the air in the , both ervations being immediately noted .
Without any loss of time the air was at once aspired into the cylinder , and its temperatllre w the cylinder again read off by means of a thermometer run through the india-rubbel stopper .
Then followed the introduction of the normal alkaline solution , the itation and the bottling ; a whole experime1lt took from thirty minutes to forty-five or fifty minutes .
The total number of my Teneriffe experiments on respiration , including the of ljhe carbonic acid expired , mounted to 157 .
The gmdo is tall and very powerful man of 38 years of ; I found him to measure round the bare chest at the nipples , 3 feet 5 inches .
His , in boots with moderately thick soles , is 6 feet inch , and he subsequently found his weight to be 89 kilog .
, actJy 1 stonc .
I am years of , mcasu1e 2 fect inches round the bnre 1879 .
] Various ltitudes on the Inland and Pea neriJfe .
chest , have height in boobs with moderately thick solcs of feet inches , and kilog .
, say 11 stone .
are both in the enjoyment of very good health .
It will be observed that we lived precisely in the same way , were exposed to the same kind of atmospheric influcnce , and ate the same kind of food , from the weight of his body , the gtlide consumed more than I did .
The amounts of rbonic acid we expired could therefore } ) fairly compared one another .
The mean of carbonic acid cxpired from sixty iments for myself , and fifty-five llidc , , and at the same fions respcctively , i11 my CftSC , .
per minute , and in that of the guide 604 on of llly body , I expired 674 .
of acid ) nlinutc , tho guidc also on 100 kilos .
, ( i79 it was found that both the lungs an amotl of cid proportionnl to of our body .
This is an ough not mlcxpected result , which to mo to ectness of the i ' tion , and clently t reliability of the coltclusions .
Anothel circumstancQ collnexion ) work still of noti( thnn tho former , the we .
at lb the per } bc subucntly dibed , of rbonic { expired by each of us ) ) to the of our body .
of acid obtained yself from ] ) stations , grllls .
ronl salnc n tatiollS 1iving belf for 100 kilos .
of bod for the guide kilos .
of bo ve ; same of ) bonici itcid ] } our that to a lllllbc ilar cxcrcist1 .
, acid th by both of in the found , , to food tnkcn .
but or utity ' \ldquo ; 504 Dr. W. Marcct on the unction of at [ Apr. 24 , refers to the guide at Puerto , where his maximum is found to be during the third hour after a mcal .
The fluctuations in my case may be said to follow closely those formerly reported from my experiments in the Alps .
The subjoined table shows at a glance the variation of the mean amount of carbonic acid expired during each successive after food , the fifth or sixth hour being grouped together for want of a sufficient number of experiments .
Table showing the Influence ] on the Expiration of Carbonic Acid at the various Stations ( the sitting posture ) .
The urcs betw ccn brackots lefc ] to lbcl .
of expel. .
One llcnt , at .
at Guajala , not If the reportea7 in this table be taken into consideration ether with the corresponding results ained i the Alps , it will appear that the maximum motlnt of carbonic acid is expired rather earlier after a meal on the mountains than in the plains , which would show that there is apparently a tendency to a more rapid digestion and assimilation of food in the mountains than near the sea level .
As in the case of my former tion , I ve neutralised as as possible the influencc of food on the results of the ments , ) conducting the inquiry at all times of bhe between breakfast and bedtime .
of on the Acid \mdash ; So , to my , the only series of observations we possess on the infiuence of climates on the ions of the human body , of Dr. , Surgeon R.N. , who has clearly pnins to the bubject ; hc ludes t:\mdash ; " " The thrce marked tropical eltomenn , 1879 .
] ltitndes on the } of .
vascularity , slowcr respiration , and gcntler ) arc closely related , and together indicate reduced , the revcrsc for the temperate zone mnrking eased function \amp ; c Dr. Rattrny infers , without apparently making any dotermination of lcid in air expired , thal there is a mount of cnrbon rown out by the lungs in tcmpcrate than in tropic climates .
Tho of mcchanicnl action of heat , with to functions of the ) , had led lnc to adopt the same vicws ; and prcvions to my Tcneriffe expcriment , I hnd believed that whore the of sun in excess , less heat required to bc ctured by the ) for the due mance of its functions , , conscqucntly , less cnrbonic acid formed nnd out .
I now compelled , howevcl , fo altcr this view , and to conclude that more bonic { is formed in the ) under a tropicnl or tropical sun ludcs .
In order to make the subjcct perfectly , I ve plnced , in lar form , the urcs s the mounb of carbonic acid cxpired , as found by dircct ) both in my Alpinc southcrn stations .
Table showing ) the of Acid Voltullcs of Air xpired p 1ninute by in the Alps and : ) .
506 Dr. .
Marcet on the Function of Respiration at ) It will be observed in this table , that , in my case , when approxilnately equal altitudes in the Alps and on the Peak of Teneriffe are compared as to their influence on respiration , at the highest stations there is an increase of carbonic acid expired } ) per cent. for Teneriffe ; at the stations next in altitude , the crease is by per cent. for Teneriffe , and at the seaside , compared with the shores of the Lake of , the enormous increase for Teneriffe of cent. is noted .
As to my uide , I have , unfortunately , but few experiments on the carbonic acid he expires on the Alps , which only amount to four in number .
They show for approximately equal altitudes no of carbonic acid expired on the Peak of Teneriffe ; but at Puerto de Orotava I find him to give out a very large quantity of carbonic acid in excess of that he expired in the Alps , amounting to as much as 1/ 5 per cent. are no determinations of the carbonic acid expired by the guide at the altitude of Geneva , to compare thosc obtained at the seaside on the Island of eneriffe , but increase at Teneriffe is beyond any result that might have been expected at the lowest them station .
If my excess of carbonic acid expired on the Peak of Teneriffe , over the amount expired in the higher Alps amounts to per cent. , whilc there is no incl'ease in the case of the guide , this is probably owing to the gnidc apparently perspiring much more freely than I do , to the that his home is in the mountains , while I am ccustomed to a residence at the sea level .
This fact , that excess of carbonic acid is expired in hot climates over that given ollt in temperate zones , is to me so uncxpected , and , indeed , so different from what might have been , that I feel bound to give cvcl.y possible proof of the accuracy of my work .
An objection be ised to the corl'ectness of the analysis from changes in the normal solution of barium from action of the carbonic acid of the air .
This was carefully ainst ; the whole of one small bottle were used for each analysis , { hus avoidino o ' necessary introduction of air in opening the bottle stock the solution been carried in a lc large flask .
The normal solution was seen to be perfectly clear when oured i cub. centim. pipette , althoug.h it hnd velled the from ondon to Teneriffe , and been ried on near the summit of the Peak .
But a circumstallcc still moro conof the sntisfactory of the solution of rinnl l ( lerived from examination of a bottle of this solutiolJ , Lad used at Teneriffc , and found nfter my return on unpacking the .
The solution in this bottle ] ibited a small numbcl .
of whitc specl at the bottom , } cre so thRt on the ] ution looked clear on the spcc.ksre ' appeared .
I subjected this fluid to a careful analysis . .
ccntims .
Various Altitudes on the Island and Peak of Teneriffe .
507 mixed with 100 .
centims. of distilled water , in order to neutralize .
centims. of the oxalic acid solution , centims. as the meall of six determinations .
My normal solution of barium , analysed in London before leaving for Teneriffe , had yielded .
centims. ; the difference was only by .
ccntim .
This result would give a very slight deficiency of acid , but tho error might be expccted to correct itself in a ltumber of Finally , it bc objected that , in my AIpine expcriment , a loss of bonic acid had been expericnced from the india-rubber into which the cxpired air was collccted .
In these experiments a time psed after .
the previous to the .
it contained introduced into the tube ; this lnpse of time between few minutcs and thirty-five or minntes , and } ) ns allow the air in the to cool down to the turc of the in the tubc .
No , after ) ccrfain time , an of , c:lpe of rbonic acid } ) expected to bstance of the india-rubber , but no such escape , in any appreci ) ] occurred above-mentioned period .
I determined experimentally by a mple of expired air analysis immedintely after the , and nnolhcr sampJc of the air from the same some time later .
results from four ) yseF m Canncs in were \mdash ; It is , AIps , loss of ) ) ) of ) took ) air ) ) I C0III ] It ll0f of ) Io I I .
not it I 1 11 Il ncd Il I work ) very ) ) : hcrc is I 1 conDr .
W. Marcct on the Function of Respiration at [ Apr. 24 , It is known , from Dr. Rattray 's important researches , alluded to ave , that the body loses weight by a change from a temperate to a , and recovers its weight on returning into a colder latitude , the loss appearing indepcndent of the amount of food taken .
This falling off the substance of the body , attended , as I have , by an increased formation and expiration of carbonic acid , must be to increased combustion or excessive oxidation .
It is difficult to offer a theory to explain this phenomenon in our present knowledge of the action of heat on the living body .
Cold we know increase the amount of carbonic acid formed in the body , the object of which is clearly to keep up animal heat to its normal standard ; it is odd indeed that an increase of external heat should exert a similar influence .
I do not think it necessary to do more than allude to a tendency to looseness of the bowels I had while on the Island of Teneriffe , which I ascribe to the heat of the climate ; the uide informs me there was an opposite disposition with him at Puerto , on the seaside .
These minor circumstances interfered in no way with our health , which was good , and our work was coninued nearly daily , and all long , during our stay at Teneriffe .
The table gives the result , in a condensed form , of the my inquiry on respiration at Teneriffe , in the sitting posture .
( See p. 509 .
) The chronological order of my visits to several stations was\mdash ; 1 .
Guajal.a .
2 .
Alta Vista .
3 .
Foot of Cone .
4 .
Puerto de Orotava ( seaside ) .
The numbel of experiments made amount , for myself , to 65 , for the uide to , making altogether 120 , and , in each of them , sample of air expired during from four to six minutes analysed .
The titrations were subsequently all by myself near Geneva , in open air , on a balcony , and in order to uard ainst any dental take in the calculations of the analysis , they were all done by mysclf and an assistant conjointly .
There WttS but a very slight increase in the carbonic acid expired at tho two hest stations beyond the amount given out at the seaside , it borc 110 comparison the excess of carbonic acid cxpired similar altitude above the sca in the Alps .
The mean cxccss of the ne with Alpine expcriments , hougl ] not with thobe of mlcl ving to that the solution of common salt probably mall ( of alkaline sulphate , alkali set force by the ion of xelted a inlluence ] titration , the of bonic scllt .
Exporiments made three mplcs of colnmoll salt mc that error afcly be to 3 per cent. , and is less in mally i nccs .
510 Dr. W. Marcet on the Function of Respiration at [ Apr. 24 , two highest stations on Teneriffe , above the amount expired at the seaside , is only per cent. , which is so small as to be hardly worth recording .
In the Alps , at altitudes somewhat corresponding with those of the Teneriife station , but in a much colder climate , the excess of carbonic acid expired at the highest over the lowest station was 15 per cent. , while , if the mean of the four high stations over the fifth or lower be taken , it will give an excess of per cent. In the cafie of the guide , there is not only no increase of carbonic acid expired in the high stations , but we find a considerable increase at the lowest station ( above two others ) , where the heat felt , and consequently absorbed , was the greatest ; this increase amounts to per cent. The mean volume of air expired , reduced to and seaside pressure , was observrd in my case to fall by per cent. from the lowest to the highest station .
lVith the guide there is also a decrease of air under similar circumstances by .
cent. I find the percentage of carbonic acid in the air expired to increass in my case from per cent. at the lowest station to per cent. at the highest , while with the guide the proportion of carbonic acid in the air exhaled is nearly the same at his three The frequency of my respiration nndergoes a marked reduction at the seaside , though nearly the same at my three high stations ; the reduction amolmts to no less than per cent. In the case of the guide , the mean number of respirations per is exactly the same his two high stations , but also falls off at the seaside by per cent. In all these experiments air was breathed through a mouth-piece , and on that account the rate of breathing was a little slower and ftpparently rather deeper than if no mouth-piece had been used .
The same method was pursued in every experiment , so that the results may be compared with each other with all dne regard to strict accuracy .
during a JIeasured Amonnf of Muscular Exercise .
In my former communication , I related a certain number of experiments referring to the increased expiration of carbonic acid while in the act of ascending .
Since then it occurred to me that an inquiry into the amount of carbonic acid expired during ulated walking exercise would yield interesting resnlts .
From the difficulty of regulating exacLly the oTee of muscular power exerted while walking , it occurred to that some arrangement , on the principle of a tread-wheel , was more ] to answer my purpose , and I finally adopted the tread-boards or rocking-boards described at the inning of the present communication .
While using these boards we tiSed t weight of lbs. forty-five times per minute , as measured by a metronome , to a height of inches for every step .
1879 .
] Tarious Altitudes on th and Peak of criJfe .
Before collecting the air , the bonrds were worked at the of forty-five stcps per minutc for a short time , in order to the body oroughly under the collditions of the ) el.incnt .
The bng connected with the held by hand in the proper position , and same time as the cxpiriltion into the wns commenced prcconccrfed signffi used tbc assistallt to the time-picce .
A littlc mnde it quitc casy to step in time with the of onomc , cou nting number of expirations .
As soon ) ressure of ontl inch , wntch sbopped and the llumbcr of } ions i diately recorded .
The experiment was then comploted usual .
Six experimcllts were by of us the stations , and the resuIts are entered tho On in this tnble the amonnt of rbonic cid , it will be observed to vary but little tbc different tions for botL myself and the guide the at 10,700 feet and scasidc the there is moderate crease at , the rmcdiri tc .
Tu of the uide the amount the two iollS is 111UC ] alike , there is decrcnsc the The tion between the ) ) ired s and on .-boards for each of us stations were : \mdash ; self .
guidc .
Alta Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 to . . . . . .
1 to ) Guajara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 , , ) . . . . . .
1 , , Puerto . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 , , 2 ) . . . . .
1 , .
1 , 1 , , cnfly , the ) ortion of CO- , is liltle of us at the tion , whilu in ) near as ] ) and 1 bc These } ou of .
lco much carbonic in { ho The of tho ; whilc of volnmc ) If the acid expired of us ] { ound fur m ) self .
of 1 ) 2 1879 .
] Various Altitudes on the Island and .
of Teneriffe .
] boards ) corresponded to litre of air , with the guide 1 .
of carbonic acid corresponded to litre .
As the mean results obtained for the amount of carbonic acid expired sitting and on the tread-boards , agrees so wcll with both of us respectivcly , I have thought it worth while to calculate the power developed by the combustion of the amount of carbon burnt working the tread-boards , in excess of that consumed in the sitting posture .
ilos .
were raised to a of millims. , 45 times per minute .
kilos .
Mean carbonic acid per minute on the tread-board 1 sitting . . . . . . . . . .
Excess , , on the tread-boalds Corresponding to of work done , or CO cxpired , was equal to an ion of cal.bon , capable of ising 1 kilo .
to 1 metre .
From Watts ' jonnry of Chcmistry the mechanical action of one unit of hent gramme-metres , and one gramme of carl ) yields by its tion 8080 units of ] leat .
Therefore , 1000 mmes c ) units of ] lcat yielding grammc-metres or es for the mechatlical action of 1 rammc of Tloe relation between the above power of carboll and ctual m. found to bc evolved in my experimcnfs } as { ollows:\mdash ; Thel'cforc we ouly or of the ) tho rbon ' we on ( cxcess of tl at consumed sitting ) was orctically : to cxol t As to { of the in pired , whilc on the , it crcases tho tion i llJy iuld this is from the ] the hest uidc maximum ) is } the middle The of lowest to the tjoll , it is *Thel .
is so litt le } } ) ) : ltitudo bovo l. P. \ldquo ; vol. lxxvii , 1873 ) , calculatiou .
514 Dr. .
lIarcet on the Function of piration at [ Apr. 24 , creased at the middlc station , undergoing a marked and sudden reduction at the seaside .
Water } cdfi.om the Lungs at the arious Stations .
The third part of my paper refers to the moisture exhaled .
It was apparent at the outset that a falling off in the atmospheric pressure , from rising above the sea , would be attcnded with a corresponding increase of evaporation from the lungs , and a proportional cooling effect on the respiratory organs .
The apparatus used for the inquiry was disposed as follows:\mdash ; A tube drawn out at both ends was loosely filled with fragments of calcic chloride ; it was large to ensure the absorption of the whole of the vapour expired in three minutes .
One end of the tube was connected with one of.my large india-rubber bags , while the other end had a ring of vulcanised india-rubber fixed round , to which the mouth was )pplied .
A delicate spring valve ( by Coxeter ) was fitted into the neck of the tube next the bag , and was weighed with the tube ; it eifectually prevented any admission of air into the tube except that given out from the lungs .
] ither the tube or the bag was placed in communication with a water gauge by a neck and indiarubber tubing .
now and then the calcic chloride was tested as to its power of retaining all the moisture ; this was done by connecting another similar tube with it and weighing it after breathing through them both .
No mouthpiece was used in these experiments , as moisture was found to deposit on anything interposed between the mouth and tube .
The air breathed was inspired through the nose only while the whole of the air expired was driven the tube , the nose being kept closed with the thumb and index .
I found no difficulty in doing this with accul.acy ; great care taken to keep the saliva from flowing into the together with the .
expired .
Lxcept in the case of a few experiments at the of the Peak , I alone submitted myself to this part of the The experiments were made by series of usually three at a time , the figures given in my table are the of those of the different serle The numbers actually obtained gave , of course , the weight of the moisture evaporated from the lungs , together with that of the atmospheric humidity of the air exhaled ; a correction had , therefore , to be made .
I determined the atmospheric humidity by means of dry and wet bulb thermometers , and the corresponding weight of moisture in a given bulk of air was taken from Glaisher 's hygrometrical tables ( fifth edition ) .
The results from these experiments have been condcnsed in the following table :\mdash ; 1879 .
] Various Altitudes on the Island and Peak of Teneriffe .
515 Moisture Expired less Atmospheric Humidity Inhaled .
Numbo.cric ( corrected.eexpired Sdf .
12,200 feet .
ista , kGuajara , Puerto , seaside feet .
Summit of Peak , 3 It was not ithout some trouble that a few successful determinations of the moisture cxpired were obtained at the hest point of the Peak , 12,200 feet above the sea .
This summit is a ctlp-shaped depression , abonb half a mile in diameter , volcanic rocks towering round it .
depth of this docs not appear to exceed 30 or 40 , and is no difficulty in king { cross it in an cction .
The floor of the crater consists of light white sand crial mixed at ) cryt , tals of ] hcre { there .
a difliculty in a sput tcred f sun wJlcroT could place my balance and sit breathe ) .
At last sontc shade obtained for the balance by of a blaukct , and to creep inCo narrow placc ) two rocks , hcrc t sun 's rays could not penetrate .
The heat intcnsc , the down upon the Peak from a perfectly clear and t being nearly too to be touched , 11 the tcnse ttion at altitude .
rently every circlllnstancec ) mbined to ffle my , ; tho ) ld position ; reCZG kcpt line sand ) I constantIy to remove the beam of bal to of ; then ot in cqui position ; and I to lay down at full l on hot satld ithout any shcltor the sun to get the from Glaisllcr 's lIrolucril bles .
516 Dr. W. Marcet on the Function of Respiration at [ Apr. 24 , The few experiments I succeeded in completing at that spot , showed an evaporation of water from the lungs above that expired at the seaside , equal to .
per minute , or per cent. If the weight of moisture expired at bhe three principal stations be considered together with the ltitudes of the , a certain relation will be found to exist between them ; this relation is established in the following table , showing what the proportions of humidity expired would amount to if calculated with reference to the barometrical pressures .
These figures are entered in the column of the following table headed Theory .
Water Expired .
The results obtained show , therefore , that the evaporation of moisture from the lungs increases as the falls .
The ratio is , however , no more than approximate .
I qffistion whether a similar result would obtained in the Alps , where the cold at certain heights must exert a considerable fluencc on the evaporation from thelungs and air passages .
Results from the Investigation .
The results I have obtained from my experiments on the Island of Teneriife may be expressed as 1 .
The mean of the whole amount of the carbonic acid expired at the hree stations ( the experiments at the foot of cone not included ) in the sitting posture , and determined from 60 experiments in my case and 55 in that of the guide , was proportional to the weights of our bodies respectively , and amounted to 676 mgms .
per 100 kilos .
for each of us .
2 .
The mean weight of the whole carbonic acid expired at the thrce stations while engaged with the same amount of measured muscular work , and determined from 18 experiments for of us , was respectively proportional to the weights of our bodies .
3 .
The mean weight of carbonic acid expired by both of us ( with one exception only ) was highest during the first or second hour after a meal , while it diminished by degrees as time elapsed since food was taken .
This agrees wibh my results obtained in the Alps .
4 .
The mean weight of carbonic acid expired by myself on the 1879 .
] Various Altitudes on the Island and Peak of Teneriffe .
517 Island of Ten ] iffe is reater than it had been the Alps , and , moreover , this same result holds good for corresponding altitudes .
The mean excess for all the experiments on Teneriife in posture , amounts for myself to per cent. It was at the seaside that the increase in my case reached the maximum , , when compared with the weight of carbonic acid expired near the Lake of Geneva , I have only four experiments to place on record made on the guide in the Alps ( St. Bernard ) ; these compared with the moans of the experiments to which hc subjected himself at the seaside , Teneriffe , gave for the latter station increased expiration of carbonic acid by per cent. There was , however , no increase for the higher stations at Teneriffe .
5 .
lVhile , in the Alps , the maximum quantity of carbonic acid was expired by at the highest station , 13,685 feet above the sea , where the body underwent the tcst d of cooling , especially from the low temperaturc of ; on the Peak of Teneriffe , the weight of carbonic acid I expired at the various stations differed but little .
6 .
The of carbonic acid expired in a given time by myself on the Peak of Tencriffe varies but little from one station to another , although I show a tendency to give out more of this gas at the two highest stations\mdash ; mean altitude feet\mdash ; than at either feet high , or the seaside .
The incrcase for the of the two highest stations ave the amount expired at the sidc is only per cent. the Alps , the carbonic acid I expired at feet , the mouut riVen out the Lttke of Geneva at 1,230 feet , or for a cncc of altitude of ) feet , nlounted to 15 per cent. sult is accoRllfed for from the ture of the air , was much colder in Alps than on the Peak of Tencriffe .
In the cnsc of the uidc , a grent more rbonic acid cxpired at the of Tencriffc on the Peak , the ired about much carbonic acid titude o that Island .
curred { ently tusc ho guidc ) than I did higher stations ; am omed to live at the lcvel , whilc the guidc ) nwny the Alps , Lis life , mmer , is spent , in a sure , nying tists 1 highest peaks and ) abbCS in the Alps ; his homc at mounix is fcot above 7 .
The volumc of I cxpired per minutc lced F. seasidc to altitude of 11,74.5 fact , CllCC for to per cent. This result to with that in the , although tho Alpinc docrcase amoullted only to ) 518 Dr. W. Marcet on the unction of Respiration at [ Apr. 24 , cent. The volume of air expired in bhe case of the guide exhibits a similar change , amounting to 226 per cent. , but the decrease stops at Guajara , the intelmediate .
The total mean volume of air expired per minute , at every station ( the foot of the cone excepted ) , while in a sitting posture , was for myself 536litres , and for the guide 6 75 litres .
8 .
The percentage of carbonic acid in the air expired exhibits nearly the same changes on the IsIand of Teneriffe as in the Alps .
At Teneriffe it rose from per cent. at the seaside to per cent. at 11,945 feet , while , in the Alps , the proportion had varied from per cent. at 1,230 feet to per cent. ( St. Bernard ) at 9,403 feet .
If the mean proportion of carbonic acid in the air expired , reduced , for the three stations of Alta Vista , Guajara , and Puerto be calculated , it will be found to amount , for myseIf , to per cent. and for the gmde to per cent. , or to be nearly the same .
The mean from the eighty-nine experiments I made in the Alps , in the sitting posture , yielded per cent. of carbonic acid expired .
9 .
The frequency of the expirations fell considerably in both cases at the seaside , or increased on rising above the but was much the same for each of us respectively at the different stations on the Peak .
The reduction at the seaside , from the mean frequency of respiration at the upper stations , amounted for myself to per cent. , and for the guide to per cenb .
In the Alps there had been a somewhat gradual rise of frequency of the respirations between the lowest and highest stations , equal in my case to per cent. 10 .
While raising with the feet a weight of .
to an elevation inches forty-five times per minute , we both expired the least amount of carbonic acid at the lowest station , and the most at the intermediate station , ',090 feet high .
The fluctuation between the various stations was much the same for each of us respectively , although the actual amount expired by each of us differed in a marked degree .
The mean relation for both of us respectively , between the carbonic acid expired sitting and on the rocking-boards , was found to be the same , and a trifle over twice the weight of the carbonic acid expired sitting .
The volume of air breathed while at work was decidedly less in my case at Alta Vista than at the two lower stations , with the guide there was a falling off in the air expired at Guajara .
The mean volume of air expired per minute , in all th ' , experiments on the rocking-boards , was for myself litres , and for the guide litres .
The general result obtained , with reference to this subject , was that the relation between the volumes of air expired while sitting , and while aged with a regulated amount of muscular worlc , was the same as the relation found to exist between the weights of carbonic acid expired under such , and moreover that these proarious Altitudes on the Island and Peak of criffe .
portions were practically the same for both of us .
relations are as follows : As to the ' of tho , while at work on { he rockingboards , it the grcatest with me at the highcst station , and with the guide at the intermediate station ; in both cases it was the lowest at the seaside .
The mean frequency amounted , in llly case , to per minute against sitting , giving a relation of ) ; or for 1 respiration sitting , I took ) respiration on the tread-board .
With the uide , the ures 1 against , and relation ; so that for 1 respiration sitting , the guide took respiration on the -bonrd .
His breathing while muscular cxercise was , therefore , rather slower tlJan mine had been under similar nces .
11 .
The results obtjxined from the detcrmination of xpired , or evaporated from the 's and air-passages , distinctly that the moisture exhaled as a person rises ave .
On the Island of , } temperaturc in the is comparatively , evcn at great altitudcs , is a to the of evaporation } in all to the atmospheric pressure .
It is very obvious that crcnsed cvnporation as altitudc increased must ve catlsed a Ioss of hcat , or of the lungs and ; I folt this very much night , when the of air ntly fell below freezing outsido my tcnt .
Of coursc , no number of blankcts our beds could check that source of cold .
The amount of wntcr evaporated from my and aiasstl during twve hours of daytime , calculated from the above data , would . . . .
grms. . . . . . .
At . . . .
The corrcction to be ) from the in the air breathed , of course , much scnsidc , ) .
it formed a consideruble ) ) orlion of actually prcscllt in the air expired .

