1880 .
] I)r .
Ramsay .
On the Critical State of Gases .
32o After making several forms of apparatus , in order to obviate certain difficulties of manipulation which arose and were fatal to success , X found that , when an electric current was passed between the surfaces of mutual contact of certain aqueous solutions of different specific gravities , the boundary line of contact of the two liquids became indefinite at the surface where the current passed from the lighter into the heavier solution , and became sharply defined where the current left the heavier liquid and re-entered the lighter one ; and that on reversing the direction of the current several times in succession after suitable intervals of time , these effects were reversed with each such change .
Also , in various cases in which the contiguous boundary layers of the two liquids had become mixed , the liquids separated , and the line of separation of the two solutions became , by the influence of the electric current , as perfect as that between strata of oil and water lying upon each other .
In rarer cases two such distinct lines of stratification appeared .
Other new phenomena were also observed .
As I have sought , without success , for any record of previous discovery of essentially similar effects , and as it is evident that those I have observed belong to a large class of similar phenomena , I beg leave to take the earliest opportunity of submitting this brief statement to the Royal Society .
II .
" On the Critical State of Gases ; ' By William Ramsay , Ph. D. , Professor of Chemistry in University College , Bristol .
Communicated by Professor Mills , F.R.S. Received February 26 , 1880 .
In a paper read before the Chemical Society , in May , 1879 , I gave an account of a method of determining what is termed by Kopp the " specific volumes " of liquids ; that was shown to be the volume of liquid at its boiling-point , at ordinary atmospheric pressure , obtainable from 22,326 volumes of its gas , supposed to exist at 0 ' .
Being desirous of extending these researches , with the view of ascertaining such relations at higher temperatures , since April , 1879 , I have made numerous experiments , the results of , and deductions from which I hope to publish before long .
The temperatures observed vary from the boiling-points of the liquids examined , to about 50 ' above their critical points ; and in course of these experiments I have noticed some curious facts , which may not be unworthy of the attention of the Society .
It is well known that at temperatures above that which produces what is termed by Dr. Andrews the " critical point " of a liquid , the 324 Dr. Ramsay .
On the Critical State of Gases .
[ Apr. 22 substance is supposed to exist in a peculiar condition , and Dr Andrews purposely abstained from speculating on the nature of the matter , whether it be liquid or gaseous , or in an intermediate condh tion , to which no name has been given .
As my observations bear directly on this point , it may be advisable first to describe the experi-ments I have made , and then to draw the deductions which appear t , \#187 ; follow from them .
A piece of barometer tubing , about 3 inches long , was sealed at one end and drawn into a capillary tube at the other ; after being filled with methyl formate , it was exhausted , and after two-thirds of the ether had evaporated , was sealed .
By this means all air was removed from the tube , which contained merely the ether and its vapour .
This tube was placed in a hole , drilled in a large block of copper .
The accompanying wood-cut shows its cross section .
The block was placed A , Hole for barometer-tube .
B and C , Holes for thermometers .
in an inclined position , so as to slope the barometer tube to an angle of about 30 ' .
1 .
On applying heat the temperature of the copper gradually rose to 221'-5 ( corr .
) ; during the rise the meniscus of the liquid gradually became less curved , and at the above-mentioned temperature disappeared .
On cooling to 218 ' a mist was seen at the point where the meniscus had disappeared , and the meniscus shortly afterwards became again visible .
2 .
Two similar tubes were prepared , one containing less and the other more of the same ether ; the point at which the meniscus disappeared in the former was 228 ' , and in the latter 215 ' .
3 .
A piece of barometer tubing was bent into the shape\#151 ; and heated .
At 250 ' the liquid had so expanded as to fill the whole tube , although the temperature of the portion outside the heater could not have much exceeded 100 ' , for it could be freely handled .
The liquid appeared in violent motion , and on cooling , before a meniscus was observed , the lower portion of the tube became filled with mist .
1880 ] Dr. Ra.ro .
Sciy ' .
On the Critical State of .
\s soon as a meniscus was visible , the liquid boiled so violently as to crive the appearance of a denser mist .
4 A tube of the shape shown was filled to the mark with methyl formate and heated in an inclined position , the portion containing the liquid being the lower .
The liquid , as usual , expanded , and at the moment when the meniscus disappeared it nearly filled the lower half .
The Bunsen 's burner below the copper heater was then withdrawn , and on cooling , the liquid all condensed in the lower half .
5 .
The last experiment was varied by tilting the heater after the meniscus of the liquid had disappeared , so that that half which had contained the liquid was uppermost .
On cooling , the liquid condensed in the upper half of the tube .
G. The experiment was again varied by keeping the tube at a temperature a few degrees above the point where the meniscus vanished , for half an hour .
On coaling , an almost equal quantity had condensed in each division of the tube .
( During Experiments 4 , 5 , and 6 great care must be taken to keep the heater from draughts of cold air , otherwise unequal cooling results and distillation takes place .
) 7 .
It was noticed that that half of the tube containing liquid , after the meniscus had vanished , appeared while the other half of the tube seemed to be empty. .
The refractive indices of the fluid contained in the tubes were therefore different .
The portion of the tube containing liquid was shown to be a more powerful cylindrical lens than the empty portion , for on focussing a spot behind the tube with a microscope , the focus was shorter when the portion which had contained liquid was placed between the microscope and the spot than when the portion appearing empty was interposed .
8 .
From experiments on the expansion of liquids above their boiling-points , of which numerical details shall be given on a future occasion , it appears probable that the specific gravity of the hot liquid , at the temperature at which the meniscus vanishes , is identical with that of the compressed gas evolved from the liquid .
This has also been noticed by Ansdell in two cases , viz. , hydrogen chloride and acetylene .
9 .
I am inclined to believe , from .observations on the expansions of liquids at high temperatures , although they were not expressly directed to elucidate this point , that liquids above the temperatures at which their menisci vanish are not uniformly compressible .
Bat as further experiments are necessary , I mention this opinion with some hesitation .
From these observations I would draw the following inferences : 32 ( ) Dr. Ramsay .
On the Critical State of Gases .
[ Apr. 22 When a liquid is heated under pressure it expands , and at the same time evolves vapour .
The vapour gains in specific gravity , while the specific gravity of the liquid is rapidly diminishing .
The critical point is that point at which the liquid , owing to expansion , and the gas owina to compression , acquire the same specific gravity , and consequently ml with one another .
From the first experiment it is seen that , on cooling* the liquid contracts more rapidly than the gas , and consequently separates as a mist through the whole of the tube , and , from its gravity , separates at the lower half .
The second experiment shows that when the tube contains a small amount of liquid the space left for gas is larger , and consequently more vapour must be given off by the liquid before enough gas can be compressed till it acquires the same specific gravity as the liquid ; the temperature at which the meniscus disappears is consequently higher .
If the space left for gas be smaller , the opposite is the case .
From the third experiment it is seen that it is possible to raise the critical point of a liquid , provided a portion be continuously cooled .
Probably the average temperature of the two portions of the tube is about 220 ' .
The fourth , fifth , sixth , and seventh experiments demonstrate that by suitable means it is possible to prevent , or rather to retard , the mixing of gas and liquid .
I hey then retain their several refractive indices .
If , however , time be allowed for diffusion through the capillary tube , the whole becomes homogeneous , and the refractive indices of the fluids contained in either portion of the tube are then identical .
I shall not refer to Experiment 8 until I have made a more thorough investigation of the subject ; I venture to state , however , that it looks piobable that as long as gas is being compressed , pressure rises giadually with decrease of volume , whereas , even above their critical points , liquids are comparatively incompressible .
I am inclined to think that carbonic anhydride , examined by Dr. Andrews , is abnormal in this respect , but of this I am by no means certain .
In conclusion , let me refer to a paper communicated to the Society by Messrs. Hannay and Hogarth last October , entitled " On the Solubility of Solids in Gases .
" Should the views of the subject suggested by the above experiments be correct , it follows that these gentlemen have observed nothing unusual , but merely the ordinary phenomenon of solubility of a solid in a hot liquid .
This view is borne out by their own experiments .
They found that on reducing pressure , that is , on allowing the liquid to change to gas , the solid precipitated ; and also on heating the tube containing the solution locally , that is , by converting the liquid near the heated point into gas , precipitation took place .
I have taken the liberty of repeating one of their experiments with a slight modification .
A tube shaped like that used in Experiment 4 , after a small fragment of potassium iodide had been placed in the lower compartment , 1880 .
] Dr. Ramsay .
On the Critical State of Gases .
327 was filled with nearly anhydrous alcohol : and after rather more than two-thirds of the alcohol had been evaporated under reduced pressure , the tube was sealed .
The lower portion of the tube contained a strong alcoholic solution of potassium iodide , besides a small piece of undissolved salt .
The upper portion of the tube was free from alcohol , but its walls were encrusted with a thin crystalline film of potassium iodide .
The tube was heated in a sloping position , the liquid being in the lower half .
After the meniscus had disappeared , the iodide in the lower half of the tube dissolved , while the film in the upper half , even in its thinnest portions , remained unchanged .
On cooling , very sparkling crystals deposited in the lower half of the tube , but no glittering crystals in the upper half .
By repeated distillation the iodide in the upper portion of the tube was washed down into the lower half , and when dry the sides of the upper tube were quite bright and clean .
The tube was again heated in the same position to 20 ' above the temperature at which the meniscus had disappeared .
On cooling the sparkling crystals again appeared in the lower tube , but not a trace in the upper tube .
To eliminate all possibility of mistake the experiment was repeated five times with the same result , and finally the alcohol was distilled into the upper tube ; it was then broken off , and its contents carefully tested for iodine with sodium hypochlorite and starch-paste .
There was not the faintest blue colour , and it is therefore certain that potassium iodide is absolutely insoluble in alcohol vapour .
It would be interesting to speculate on the condition of a fluid , of which two portions possess the same specific gravity , but refract light differently .
Such speculations would , however , be premature in our present knowledge of the subject .
In conclusion , I may remark , that Messrs. Hannay and Hogarth found that the absorption spectrum of coloured salts remains unaltered , even when the liquid in which they are dissolved loses its meniscus .
Surely no clearer proof is needed to show that the solids are not present as gases , but are simply solutions in a liquid medium .
( Received March 20 , 1880 .
) Since the foregoing was written , Professor Stokes has been so kind as to suggest in a letter to Dr. Mills , some possible causes of error , which may be briefly catalogued as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
The tubes may have contained air .
That this cannot have been the case is , I think , ensured by the method by which they were filled .
The tube was completely filled with liquid , and the liquid made to evaporate out under a vacuum of 25 inches till its volume had become reduced to the required amount .
While the reduced pressure was sustained , the tube was sealed at the 328 Dr. Ramsay .
On the Critical State of Gases .
[ Apr. 22 base of its capillary neck .
It is improbable that the liquids ex penmented on dissolve air , for when heated , no air-bubbles can h seen to escape .
2 .
The liquids may not have been quite pure ; they may not have been absolutely free from water .
The methyl formate used in the experiments presents no special advantage but that of its meniscus disappearing at a comparatively low temperature .
It was procured from Kahlbaum , and previous to use had been distilled over metallic sodium .
Its boiling-point was absolutely constant .
Still , as treatment with sodium might have led to the formation of some other compound of nearly the same boiling-point , it was redistilled , in accordance with a suggestion of Professor Stokes , and the first and last portions of the distillate were selected for experiment .
Two tubes were filled to as nearly the same height as could be judged by eye , one with the first portion of the distillate and one with the last .
Both were heated at the same time in the copper heater , and were exactly similarly placed with regard to the thermometer .
The temperature of the heater having been raised till the meniscus had disappeared in both tubes , the source of heat was removed and the heater was allowed to cool .
The tube containing the first fraction gave the first symptoms of a cloud , or mist , at 218-4 ( corr .
) , and that containing the last fraction at 218T ( corr .
) .
The very slight difference is doubtless owing to the two tubes not containing exactly the same amount of liquid .
To eliminate any source of error dependent on the use of methyl formate , two other substances were employed , viz. , carbon disulphide , CS2 , and carbon tetrachloride , CC14 .
The former of these liquids was rectified five times over sodium , and then boiled at 48 ' 7(corr .
) .
The latter was rectified four times over phosphoric anhydride , and boiled constantly at 77'5 ( corr .
) .
They yielded the following results :\#151 ; CCL Tube more than half full . . .
282-7 . . . .
283-3 . .
Tube less than half full . .
286-4 .
288-4 These readings are given for the first appearance of a cloud in the tube on cooling , and differ from the temperature at which the meniscus disappears by being about half a degree lower .
They also do not represent extreme instances , for in the first cases the liquids do not entirely fill the tube , and in the second about half an inch of liquids remains in the tubes before it becomes impossible to distinguish liquid from gas .
3 .
Owing to too rapid rise of temperature , the tubes and the heater may not have been at the same temperature .
1880 .
] Revision of the Atomic Weight of Aluminium .
The numbers given are not the result of one reading , but the mean of four or five .
The copper block , after being raised to the tempera ture at which the meniscus of the liquid disappeared , was allowed to cool till a cloud became visible , shortly afterwards followed by a reappearance of the meniscus .
The temperature was again raised , and so on , readings being taken each time .
They never differed by more than half a degree .
The tubes , therefore , must have possessed the temperature of the heater .
The experiments described in a former part of this paper , relating to the difference of refraction shown by a liquid above its so-called critical point , and the gas evolved from it , were repeated with carbon tetrachloride and carbon disulphide , and held good in both cases .
The phenomena observed differed in no particular from those already described .
In conclusion a few remarks on the liquefaction of the so-called permanent gases may not be deemed out of place .
If the deductions from the above experiments be correct , it follows that that form of matter which we call gas may be converted into liquid by pressure alone ; but the meniscus will never become visible , for the process of change is a gradual one .
To render the meniscus visible , it is necessary to take advantage of the fact that liquids under such circumstances have a much greater coefficient of expansion by heat , and conversely a much greater coefficient of contraction on withdrawal of heat , than gases .
It , therefore , becomes necessary to lower the temperature until the liquid by contraction acquires a specific gravity greater than that of its gas , and then , and not till then , does the phenomenon of a meniscus become observable .
III .
" Revision of the Atomic Weight of Aluminium .
" By J. W. Mallet , F.R.S. Received March 13 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) After remarking that there is probably no one of the so-called chemical elements , equally abundant in nature with aluminium , and occurring in as numerous compounds , with regard to the atomic weight of which our knowledge has long rested upon so slender a foundation of accurate experiment , the author gives a brief statement of prior determinations , noticing in succession the researches of Berzelius , Sir Humphry Davy , Thomson , Mather , himself , Dumas , Charles Tissier , and Terreil , and quotes the numbers given in several of the more recent chemical handbooks , reports , \amp ; c. He then proceeds to describe a redetermination of this atomic

