The Oviposition of Nautilus macromplialus .
" The Oviposition of Nautilus macromphalus .
" By ARTHUR Willey , D.Sc .
, Balfour Student of the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Alfred Newton , M.A. , F.R.S. , on behalf of the Managers of the Balfour Fund .
Received February 3 , \#151 ; Read February 11 , 1897 .
Nautilus macromphalus is the species of nautilus characteristic of the New Caledonian Archipelago , which comprises the islands of New Caledonia , the Isle of Pines , and the Loyalty Group .
I took up my residence on the shores of Sandal Bay , Lifu , in August , 189b .
Having collected a number of Nautilus , I placed them in captivity in a large native fish-trap , specially fitted up , fed them twice or three times a week with fish , land-crabs , Palinurus , and Scyllarus , and on December 5,1896 , commenced to obtain the fertilised ova .
It is not necessary at present to describe the details of manipulation , and I therefore proceed at once to give a brief account of the more obvious features of the eggs as illustrated by the accompanying figures .
The eggs are laid singly and at night , in concealed situations , and are firmly attached by a sponge-like reticulate area of attachment ; placed towards their hinder inflated extremity , usually on one face of the egg-case , but sometimes quite posteriorly , to a suitable surface .
I supplied the latter to the Nautilus by fixing pieces of old sacking to the walls of the fish-basket , leaving loose , overhanging folds , beneath which the eggs could be well concealed .
The fibres of the sacking were deftly employed by the Nautilus in cementing their eggs .
The ovum is enclosed within a double casing , an inner closed capsule , and an outer capsule more or less freely open in front .
The material of which the capsules consist is of a bright milk-white colour , and of firm cartilaginoid consistency .
The capsules do not collapse , but retain their shape when allowed to dry .
Por convenience of description , the exposed surface of the egg may be spoken of as the dorsal or upper side , while the attached side may be referred to as the lower or ventral side .
The outer capsule is separate from the inner capsule below and for about two-thirds of the upper side , but is fused with it in the postero-dorsal region .
Where the two capsules are fused together the covering of the ovum is much thickened .
The egg with outer covering complete is of remarkably large size , attaining a length of 45 mm. , everything included , with a width of 16 mm. , and a maximum height of 16'25 mm. The length and the width are fairly constant in normally shaped eggs , but the height varies somewhat , some eggs being a good deal flatter than others .
2 n 2 Dr. A. Willey .
In fi ' ' .
1 an egg is represented as seen in its nsual natural attached position The depressed or " anterior " end of the egg is , as a rule , directed vertically upwards .
The outer capsule is continued in front into two thin , translucent , terminal processes .
For nearly half the length of the egg on the upper side the two halves of the outer capsule are separated by a narrow slit from one another and join together behind the centre of the egg .
The dorsal ridge or suture of the inner capsule can be seen through this slit in the outer capsule .
On the lower side of the egg the two halves of the outer capsule are continuous across the middle line throughout the length of the egg , except at the extreme anterior end .
The surface of the egg in the posterior inflated region is smooth , with a few slight folds like the folds of drapery , giving it a graceful Fia 1 \#151 ; Fertilised egg of Nautilus macromphalus in the natural attached Position .
The pectinate ridges and fenestrations , together with the slit m the wall of the outer capsule , are well seen .
The arcuate thickening m the middle of the posterior half of the egg is due to the fusion of the outer with the inner capsule .
In this ovum the anterior membranous prolongations of the outer capsule were unequal , the larger of them having the form of a thin flattened expansion .
Fm 2_____The same egg from the side , showing the inflated posterior or proximal iwiTtoL atoned distal portion , a. also the spongy area of attachment .
The 0 exposition of Nautilus macromphalus .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; The same egg as in the preceding figures , from below .
Behind is the somewhat irregularly shaped spongy area of attachment .
appearance .
The anterior depressed region is characterised by the presence of a number of pectinate ridges and of fenestrations in the wall of the outer capsule ( figs. 1\#151 ; 3 ) .
Sometimes , however , the pectinations are obscure and the fenestrations may be absent .
Hardly will any two eggs present an exactly similar appearance .
Sometimes there are shred-like processes from the surface of the outer capsule , lending a more or less tattered appearance to the egg .
In fig. 4 another egg is shown with the above-described slit in the upper wall of the outer capsule , widened out so as to disclose the inner capsule to view .
The inner capsule has a regular oval shape with anterior pointed extremity and a generally smooth surface .
Its wall has a finely striated structure , the striae having a watery appearance .
There aie three distinct seams or sutures , representing lines of least resistance , in the wall of the inner capsule , namely , a median suture on the upper side ( i.e. , the side directed away from the attached side of the egg ) , and two lateral sutures placed towards the lower surface of the capsule ( figs. 4\#151 ; 6 ) .
The dorsal suture is marked by a prominent ridge which is produced in front beyond the anterior extremity of the main body of the inner capsule into a slender terminal appendix .
The lateral sutures are marked by less prominent ridges , and are continued into one another anteriorly , immediately behind the anterior extremity of the inner capsule .
In consequence of the continuity of the lateral sutures , the lower side of the egg can be raised up like a cap or an operculum .
The inner capsule is often easily Dr. A. Willey .
Fig. 4\#151 ; Another egg of 2V .
maeromphalus , seen from above , with the longitudinal slit in the tipper wall of the outer capsule widened out so as to expose the inner capsule to view .
d s Fig. 5 .
Inner capsule of another egg to show the dorsal ridge along the dorsal suture ( d. -v .
) with its anterior terminal prolongation , and the lateral suture ( l. s. ) .
o. c. , remains of outer capsule .
ruptured along the sutures .
In the middle line of the lower surface of the inner capsule there is a slight longitudinal groove , and other unimportant grooves often occur .
Where the outer capsule is united to the inner capsule there is usually a depression or flattening in the wall of the latter .
The vitellus ( fig. 6 ) does not fill the entire cavity of the inner capsule , but is .
surmounted by a layer of colourless , somewhat cloudy , viscid albumen which is massed up , as it were , at the two extremities of the egg .
The yolk is of a rich brown colour , of very fluid con sistency , and sub-translucent .
The surface of the vitellus is quite smooth .
The length of the inner capsule is about 26 mm. , while that of the enclosed vitellus is 17 mm. I am not in a position to say much about the embryonic area at present , but I have observed an area pellucida about the middle of The Opposition of Nautilus macromphalus .
1.S jrIGi e.\#151 ; The inner capsule of the same egg , seen from below ( i.e. , from the side directed towards the surface of attachment ) .
Half the lower wall of the capsule has been removed by slitting along one of the lateral sutures , and along the median groove ( mentioned in the text ) , to show the brown-colourec vitellus lying in the capsule .
The continuity of the lateral sutures ( I , s. ) in front is well seen .
The shaded area represents a depression which occurred in the wall of the inner capsule in the region of the area of attachment of the outer capsule .
the lower surface of the vitellus in an egg which had been allowed to develop for twenty-four hours after being first seen .
The large quantity of yolk points to the occurrence of a long period of incubation .
Sometimes the capsules of the egg are malformed , and , on opening such an egg , the vitellus is found to he already ruptured .
From the fact that in New Britain I obtained mature males of 'Nautilus pompilius , carrying a spermatophore in the cephalic region throughout the year , I came to the conclusion that the reproduction of Nautilus took place all the year round .
It now seems probable that the breeding of Nautilus , as of so many other forms , is subject to a definite law of periodicity .
Finally , it may be mentioned that N. varies with regard to the position of the spadix on the right or left side , and also as to the origin of the siphuncular artery , in the same way as N. pompilius does .
The male of N. carries a spermatophore in the same position as in N. pompilius ; and , in fact , the only essential difference between the two species that I know of at present , is the difference between the shells in the umbilical region .

