]\gt ; The Halogen Hydrid as Halogen as Solvents.\mdash ; Part Preliminary Notice By B. D. STEEL , D. INTOSH , and E. H. CHIBALD .
Communicated by SIR WILLIAM RAMSAY , K.C.B. , F.RS .
Beceived ember 2 December 15 , 1904 .
Recent investigations have shown that the power of forming conducting solutions is manifested to a greater or less extent by a large number of inorganic and organic solvents .
Some of the resulting solutions behave in a similar manner to those in water , as regards the variation with dilution of the molecular conductivity , and of the average molecular weight of the dissolved substance .
Others show a variation of which appears to be inconsistent with Arrhenius ' theory of ionic dissociation .
Conducting solutions in which the halogen hydrides and sulphuretted hydrogen act as solvents , are trikingly abnormal , and show , as has been pointed out in Parts 1 and an enormous diminution of with dilution , instead of the steady slow increase required by the theories of Arrhenius , Hoff and Ostwald .
These abnormal results can , we believe , be simply explained on the assumption that the dissolved substance enters into combination with the solvent , and that the resulting compound undergoes ionic dissociation .
It can be shown from the law of mass action that , if molecules of solute combine with molecules of the solvent to form a single molecule of the electrolyte , the ation of the latter will be proportional to , whsre is the concentration of the original dissolved substance .
But the specific conductivity is proportional to the rlumber of ions , and this is proportional to the concentration of the electrolyte multiplied by , lvhere is its coefficient of ionisation .
Thus , if or If varies but slightly over a given range this equation becomes It is found that the whole of our results may be thus explained .
In some cases is approximately constant over a certain range of dilution ; and that this approximate constancy does not hold at greater dilutions is to be assigned to the variation.of , which may become eater in more dilute solutions on account of a secondary dissociation * 'Boy .
Soc. Proc vol. 73 , pp. 450 and 465 .
The Halogen Hydrides as Conducting Solvents .
This behaviour is manifested by , amongsl others , a solution hydrocyanic acid in hydrogen chloride , which gives the values for and From these it will be seen that according to the foregoing tion , increases with dilution , a variation which is that required the ionic theory .
In the case of triethylammonium chloride dissolved in hydrogen chloride varies to a much greater extent , as the following figures show In both the foregoing cases is found to be equal to 2 , or molecules of solute combine with the solvent to form the substance .
In other cases , or three molecules combine with the solvent , for example , acetone dissolved in hydrogen bromide , for which Here again the increase of dilution is clearly indicated .
For substances dissolved in water and , and the equation becomes , or and for purposes of comparison with the foregoing the numbers for and are given for a salt .
Cd water .
Confirmation of these views is ffiorded by the resuIts of the weight determinations , which show that in many instances molecular weight is greater than the normal , indicating that tion has taken place to some extent .

