alkalies .
With solutions of potash and soda , it forms pale brown compounds , from which , when recent , a little ammonia is evolved .
In liquid ammonia the solution is of a reddish hue .
3 .
The action of the acids upon these different compounds is attended with nearly similar phenomena , a substance being separated intermediate in its properties between fat and albumen .
Nitric acid added in excess redissolves this precipitate in the cold , and sulphuric , muriatic , and acetic acids when boiled upon it for a short time .
4 .
Neither alcohol nor ether exert any action upon the coagulum of chyle ; but of the precipitate from its alkaline solution , they dissolve a small portion , which has the properties of spermaceti : the remainder is coagulated albumen .
5 .
Sulphuric acid very readily dissolves this coagulum , even when diluted with its weight of water ; and with the assistance of heat , it is soluble in a mixture of one part by weight of acid , with four of water ; but when the proportion of water is increased to six parts , the dilute acid exerts no action upon it .
I was surprised to find that the alkalies produced no precipitation in these sulphuric solutions when heat had been employed in their formation , and where a small proportion only of the coagulum had been dissolved , and was therefore led to examine more particularly the changes which the coagulum had undergone by the action of the acid .
On evaporating a solution of one drachm of the coagulum in two ounces of dilute sulphuric acid ( consisting of one part by weight of acid with three of water ) down to one ounce , a small quantity of carbonaceous matter separated , and the solution had the following properties , It was transparent , and of a pale brown colour .
Neither the caustic nor carbonated alkalies produced in it any precipitation , when added to exact saturation of the acid ; or in excess .
Infusion of galls , and other solutions containing tannin , rendered the acid solution turbid , and produced a more copious precipitation in that which had been neutralized by the addition of alkalies .
When evaporated to dryness , carbonaceous matter was deposited , and sulphurous acid evolved , with the other usual products of these decompositions .
6 .
On digesting the coagulum in dilute nitric acid , consisting of one part by weight of the acid to fifteen of water , it was speedily rendered of a deep brown colour , but no other apparent change was produced for some weeks , when on removing it from the acid at the end of that period , it had acquired the properties of that modification of fat which is described by FOURcROY under the name of adepocire.* A mixture of one part of nitric acid with three of water , acted more rapidly upon the coagulurn of chyle ; a portion of it was dissolved , and when the acid was carefully decanted from the remainder , it was found to possess the properties of gelatine .
But when heat was applied , or when a stronger acid was employed , the action became more violent , nitrogen and nitric oxide gas were evolved , and a portion of carbonic acid and of oxalic acid were produced .
7 .
Muriatic acid in its undiluted state does not dissolve the coagulum of chyle , but when mixed with an equal quantity of water , or even more largely diluted , it dissolves it with facility , i Mem. de l'Acad .
des Sciences , x789 .
forming a straw-coloured solution , which is rendered turbid when the alkalies are added to exact saturation , but no precipitate falls , nor can any be collected by filtration .
When either acid or alkali are in excess in this solution , it remains transparent .
8 .
Acetic acid dissolves a small portion of the coagulum of chyle , when boiled upon it for some hours .
As the solution cools , it deposits white flakes , which havthe properties of coagulated albumen .
9 .
The action of oxalic acid is nearly similar to that of the acetic , but neither citric , nor tartaric acid , exert any action upon this coagulum .
lo .
The destructive distillation of this substance affords water slightly impregnated with carbonate of ammonia , a small quantity of thin fetid oil and carbonic acid and carburetted hydrogen gas .
The coal which remains in the retort is of difficult incineration ; it contains a considerable portion of muriat of soda and of phosphat of lime , and yields very slight traces of iron .
C. 1 .
The serous part of the chyle becomes slightly turbid when heated , and deposits flakes of albumen .
2 .
If after the separation of this substance the fluid be evaporated to half its original bulk , at a temperature not exceeding 0oo ?
FAHRENHEIT ; small crystals separate on cooling , which , as far as I have been able to ascertain , bear a strong resemblance to sugar of milk : they require for solution about four parts of boiling water , and from sixteen to twenty parts of water of the temperature of 6o0 .
They are sparingly soluble in boiling alcohol , but again deposited as the solution cools .
At common temperatures alcohol exe ts no action upon them .
The taste of their aqueous solution is extremely sweet .
By nitric acid they are converted into a white powder of very small solubility , and having the properties of saccholactic acid , as described by SCHEELE.* The form of the crystals I could not accurately ascertain even with the help of considerable magnifiers .
In one instance they appeared oblique six-sided prisms , but their terminations were indistinct .
Some of the crystals heated upon a piece of platina in the flame of a spirit lamp , fused , exhaled an odour similar to that of sugar of milk , and burnt away without leaving the smallest perceptible residuum .
S. The destructive distillation of the serous part of chyle afforded a minute quantity of charcoal , with traces of phosphate of lime and of mnuriate of soda and carbonate of soda .
SECTION III .
Analysis of Lymph .
The fluid found in the thoracic duct of animals that hare been kept for twenty-four hours without food , is perfectly transparent and colourless , and seems to differ in no respect from that which is contained in the lymphatic vessels .
It may therefore be regarded as pure lymph .
It has the following properties.t 1 .
It is miscible in every proportion with water .
It produces no change in vegetable colours .
3 .
It is neither coagulated by heat , nor acids , nor alcohol , but is generally rendered slightly turbid by the last re-agent 4 .
When evaporated to dryness , the residuum is very small in quantity , and slightly affects the olour of violet paper , changing it to green. .
5 .
By incineration in a platina crucible the residuum is found to contain a minute portion of muriate of soda ; but I could not discover in it the slightest indications of iron .
6 .
In the examination of this fluid , I availed myself with some advantage of those modes of electro-chemical analysis , which on a former occasion I have described to this Soiety.* When the lymph was submitted to the electrical action of a battery , consisting of twenty pairs of four inch plates of copper and zinc , there was an evolution of alkaline matter at the negative surface , and portions of coagulated albumen were separated , As far as the small quantities on which I operated enabled me to ascertain , muriatic acid only was evolved at th positive surface .
SECTION IV .
Some Remarks on the Analysis of the Serum of Bood , This fluid has been so frequently and fully examined by chemists , that I shall not enter into a detailed account of its composition , but merely state such circumstances respecting it as relate particularly to the present inquiry , and have not hitherto been noticed by the experimentalists to whom I havY alluded .
The fluid which oozes from serum that has been coagulated by heat , and which , by physiologists , is termed serosity , is usually regarded as consisting of gelatine , with some uncombined soda , and minute portions of saline substances , such as muriate of soda and of potash , and phosphate of li'me , and of ammonia .
Dr. BOSTOCK regards it as mucus.* From some experiments which I made upon the serum of blood , on a former occasion , I was induced to regard the serosity as a compound of albumen with excess of alkali , and to consider the coagulation of the serum analogouss to that of the white of egg , and of the other varieties of liquid albumen .
To ascertain this point , and to discover whether gelatine exists in the serum , I instituted the following experiments .
Two fluid ounces of pure serum were heated in a water bath until perfectly coagulated : the coagulum , cut into pieces , was digested for some hours in four fluid ounces of distilled water , which was afterwards separated by means of a filter .
The clear liquor reddened turmeric paper , and afforded a copious precipitation on the addition of infusion of galls , and when evaporated to half an ounce , it gelatinised on cooling. .
It was rendered very slightly turbid by the addition of dilute sulphuric and muriatic acid ; but alcohol produced no effect. .
From the result of these trials , it might have been concluded that gelatine was taken up by the water , but as an alkaline solution of albumen forms an imperfect jelly when duly concentrated , and as albumen and gelatine are both precipitated by tannin , I was .
inclined to put little reliance on .
the appearances just described , until I had examined the solution by the more accurate method of electrical decomposition .
" Transactions of the Medical and Chirurgical Society of London , Vol , I. , p. 7 ? .
Upon placing it in the VOLTAIC circuit my suspicions were justified , by the rapid coagulation which took place in contact with the negative wire .
I therefore made some other experiments in order to corroborate this result .
One fluid ounce of pure serum was dissolved in three of distilled water : the conductors from a battery of thirty pairs of four inch plates were immersed in this solution at a distance of two inches from each other ; the electrization was continued during three hours and a half , the solid albumen being occasionally removed ; at the end of that period , no further coagulation took place , and a mere decomposition of the water was going on .
Having ascertained in previous researches , that gelatine is not altered during the electrical decomposition of its solution carried on as just described , my object in this experiment was , to ascertain whether any gelatine remained after the complete separation of the alburnen had been effected .
I accordingly examined the water from which the coagulated albumen had been removed , and found that it was not altered by infusiol of galls , nor did it afford any gelatine when evaporated to dryness .
Two fluid ounces of dilute muriatic acid were added to one of serum .
The mixture immediately assumed a gelatinous appearance ; it was heated , and a more perfect coagulation of the albumen took place ; the liquid part was separated by a fiter .
No effect was produced upon it by VOLTAIC electricity , nor did infusion of gails occasion any precipitation .
I repeated the first experiment withll the addition of twenty drops of a solution of isinglass to the serum .
The liquid which now selearated after the alb:amen had been entirely coagulated by the , action of electricity , was copiously precipitated , by in fusion of galls , It may be inferred , from theses experiments , that gelatine does not exist in the serum of the blood , and that the serosity consists of albumen in combination with a large proportion of alkali , which modifies the action of the re-agents : commonly employed , but which is readily separated by electrical decomposition .
To ascertain whether iron exists in the serum of the bloody one pint was evaporated to dryness in a crucible , and gradually reduced to a coal , which was incinerated and digested in muriatic acid , to which a few drops of nitric acid were added ; some particles of charcoal remained undissolved ; the solution was saturated with ammonia , which afforded a copious precipitation of phosphate of lime , accompanied with slight trace only of oxide of iron .
SECTION V. Some Experiments upon the Coagulum of Blood .
Mr. HATCHETT'S valuable researches on the chemical corrstitution of the varieties of coagulated albumen , have shown that that substance varies but little in its properties , whether obtained from the crassamentum of the blood , or from washed muscular fibre , or other sources ; but that the proportion of earthy and saline matter is different in the different varieties.* It will also be remarked , on referring to the dissertation which I have just quoted , that the ashes obtained by incinerat* Phil. Trans. 1800oop .
384 .
ng the coal left after the destructive distillation of albumen , did not contain any appreciable proportion of iron .
Assuming the existence of iron in the colouring : matter of the blood , I made the following experiments upon the crassamentum of that fluid .
Two pints of blood were collected in separate vessels .
The one portion wasallowed to coagulate spontaneously , the other was stirred for half an hour with a piece of wood , so as to collect the coagulum , but to diffuse the principal part of the colouring matter through the serum .
These two portions of coagulum were now dried in a water-bath , and equal weigilts of each reduced in a platina crucible to the state of coal , which afterwards was incinerated .
The ashes were digested in dilute .
nitro-muriatic acid , and the solution saturated with liquid ammonia , in order to precipitate the phosphate of lime as well as any iron which might have been present .
The precipitates were collected , dried , and treated with dilute acetic acid , by which they were almost entirely dissolved , some very minute traces only of red oxide of iron remaining , the quantity of which was similar in both cases , and so small as nearly to have escaped observation .
It is reasonable to infer , that if the colouring matter of the blood were constituted by iron in any state of combination , that a larger relative proportion of that metal would have been discoverable in the former than in the latt:er coagulum ; but frequent repetitions of these experiments have shown that this is not the case , and the following result appears to complete the evidence on this subject .
The colouring matter of a pint of blood was diffused by agitation through the serum , from which it was allowed gradually to subside , the coagulum having been ' removed : after twenty-four hours , the clear serum was decanted ofF , and the remainder , containing the colouring matter , after having been evaporated to dryness , was incinerated , and the ash examined as in former experiiments .
But the traces of iron were here as indistinct as in the other instances above tioned , although a considerable quantity of the clculring matter had been employed .
The minutia of analysis I have purposely excluded , as leading into details which would exceed the proper limints of this paper , and unnecessary in the present investigation ; I shall now merely dwell on the principal results which have been obtained , and on the general conclusions which these afford.:SECTION VI .
Researches on the colouring Matter of the Blood .
1 .
ITo procure this substance for experiments , I generally employed venous blood which had been stirred during its co- .
agulation ; the fibrina is thus removed , and the colouring matter diffused through the serum , from which it graduaily subsides , being difficultly soluble in that fluid ; on decanting off the supernatant serum , the colouring matter remains in a very concentrated form .
When other modes of procuring it were employed they will be particularly mentioned ; but as I have not found the serum which is retained interfere much with the effects of various agents upon the colouring principle , the method just noticed was commonly adopted .
2 .
When the colouring matter thus collected is microscopicalIy examined , it seems , as LEWENHOECK first observed , * to consist of minute globules .
These are usually described as soluble in water , a circumstance which my own observations led me to doubt , and which the more accurate experiments of Dr. YOUNG , an account of which , intended for publication , he has kindly permitted me to peruse , have completely disproved .
3 .
The effect of water upon the red globules , is to dissolve their colouring matter , the globule itself remaining colourless , and , according to Dr. YOUNG , floating upon the surface .
This aqueous solution is of a bright red colour , and not very prone to putrefaction .
When heated , it remains unaltered at temperatures below 190 ?
or 200o FAHRENHEIT ; at higher temperatures it becomes turbid , and deposits a pale brown sediment : if in this state it be poured upon a filter , the water passes through without colour , so that exposure to heat not only destroys the red tint , but renders the colouring matter insoluble in water .
Alcohol and sulphuric ether added to this solution also render it turbid , and when these mixtures were filtrated , a colourless and transparent liquor was obtained .
4 .
The matter remaining upon the filter was insoluble in water , in alcohol , and in sulphuric ether ; but when digested in dilute muriatic or sulphuric acid , a portion was taken'up forming a brown solution .
I regard this soluble portion as a modification of the colouring matter produced by the operation of heat : the insoluble residuum had the properties of albumen .
S. Effects of Acids on the colouring Matter .
A. Muriatic acid poured upon the colouring matter of the blood , renders one portion of it nearly insoluble and of a bright brown colour : another portion is taken up by the acid forming a dark crimson solution when viewed by reflected light ; but when examined by transmitted light , it has a greenish hue .
This solution remains transparent , and its colour is unimin paired by long exposure to light , either in contact with the air , or when kept in close vessels .
At its boiling temperature the colour is also permanent .
Infusion of galls produces no change in this muriatic solu .
tion , nor is its colour affected by carbonated alkalies , even when added in considerable excess .
It is rendered brown red by supersaturation with caustic potash , but not with soda , nor ammonia : these , and especially the latter , rather heighten its colour .
When considerably diluted with water its original colour is much impaired , and the green hue , which it always exhibits by transmitted light , becomes more evident .
In preparing this solution , I frequently employed the coagulum of blood cut into pieces , and digested in equal parts of muriatic acid and water , at a temperature between i5o ?
and soo ? .
In three or four hours the acid was poured off , and filtrated .
The clear solution was in all respects similar to that above described , although before filtration it appears of a dirty brown colour .
I evaporated a portion of this muriatic solution in a water- .
bath , to dryness ; it retained its colour to the last , and left a transparent pellicle upon the evaporating bason , of a dirty red colour : this , when redissolved in muriatic acid acquired its former tint , but the colour of its aqueous solution was nearer brown than red .
B. Sulphuric acid , diluted with eight or ten parts of water , forms an excellent solvent of the colouring principle of the blood .
It may be employed in a more concentrated state ; but the bright colour of the solution is in that case apt to be impaired , and when more largely diluted with water , its action is slow and uncertain .
Either the sediment of the colouring matter from the serum , or the crassamentum of the blood , may be indifferently employed in forming these solutions .
When dilute sulphuric acid is added to the colouring matter , it renders it slightly purple ; and if no heat be , applied , the acid when poured off and filtered , is colourless ; so that dilute sulphuric acid when cold , does not dissolve this colouring principle .
One part of the crassamentum of blood cut into pieces , was put into a mattress placed in a sand heat , with about three parts of dilute sulphuric acid .
It was kept for twelve hours in a temperature never exceeding 21 . ?
, nor below 1oo ?
0 After twenty-four hours the acid was filtered off , and it exhibited a beautiful bright lilac colour , not very intense , and tainted with green when viewed by transmitted light .
This solution is nearly as permanent as that in the muriatic acid .
Some of it which has been kept for a month in an open vessel , often exposed to the direct rays of the sun , is very little altered .
When diluted with two or three times its bulk of water , the lilac tint disappears , and the mixture is only slightly green .
When exposed to heat , the colour gradually changes as the acid becomes more concentrated by evaporation , and when reduced to about half its bulk the lilac hue is destroyed .
The solutions of pure and carbonated alkalies when added in excess , convert the colour of this sulphuric solution to brownish red ; but in smaller quantities , they merely impair it by dilution .
C. Nitric acid , even much diluted , is inimical to the colouring matter of the blood .
A few drops added to the muriatic or sulphuric solutions gradually convert their colour to a bright brown , and larger quantities produce the same change immediately .
The action which this acid exerts upon the colouring matter:under other circumstances is nearly similar , and always attended with its decomposition , so that my attempts to procure a red solution in this menstruum uniformly failed of success .
D. Acetic acid dissolves a considerable quantity of the colouring matter of the blood ; the solution is of a deep cherry red colour .
When somewhat diluted , or when observed in tubes of about a quarter of an inch bore , this solution appears perfectlygreen by transmitted light .
In its other habitudes it nearly resembles the muriatic solution .
E. The solution of the colouring matter in oxalic acid is of a brighter red than those hitherto noticed ; that in citric acid is very similar to the acetic solution , and with tartaric acid the compound somewhat inclines to scarlet .
All these solutions exhibit the green hue , to which I have so often alluded , in a remarkable degree .
Effects of Alkalies on the colouring Principle of the Blood .
The caustic and the carbonated alkalies form deep red solutions of this substance , which are extremely permanent .
i. Solutions of pure potash , and of the subcarbonate , take up a large proportion of the colouring matter of the blood .
The intensity of the colour of this solution , when concentrated , is such , that it appears opaque , unless viewed in small masses , or in a diluted state , when it is of a bright red colour .
2 .
In soda and its subcarbonate , the solution has more of a crimson hue , which colour is extremely bright in its concentrated state .
3 .
The solution in liquid ammonia approaches nearer to scarlet than that in which the fixed alkalies are employed .
4 .
When these alkaline solutions are supersaturated with muriatic acid , or with dilute sulphuric acid , they acquire a colour nearly similar to the original solutions in those acids , which have been above described .
5 .
Nitric acid added in small quantities , or even to saturation of the alkaline menstruum , heightens the colour of the three compounds ; but when there is a slight excess , a tint of orange is produced , which soon passes into bright yellow , 6 .
The alkaline solutions may be evaporated nearly to dryness without losing their red colours ; during the evaporation of the amimoniacal solution , the -alkali flies off , and a brownred solution of the colouring matter in water remains .
P3 1o7 Having:ascertained the above facts respecting the colouring principle of the blood , I next proceeded to examine how far it was susceptible of entering into those combinations which are peculiar to:other varieties of colouring matter .
These eN periments I shall detail in the order in which they were made .
i. Some pure alumine was added to a concentrated aqueous solution of the colouring matter of the blood , and after twentyfour hours the mixture , which " had been frequently agitated during that period , was poured upon a filter , and the residuum washed with hot distilled water .
The filtrated liquor had lost much of its original colour ; the alumine had acquired a red tinge ; it was dried at a temperature between 7o0 and 80 ?
, during which it became brown .
e. Two hundred grains of alum were dissolved in four fluid ounces of a solution of the colouring matter , similar to that employed in the last experiment .
The colour of the conpound was bright red .
Liquid ammonia was added , and the precipitate collected , and carefully dried .
It was of a dirty red , and after some days exposure to light , became nearly brown .
From these , and other experiments which I have not thought it necessary to detail , it appears that alumine will not form a permanent red compound with the colouring principle of the blood ; I was therefore next induced to employ oxide of tin .
S. Fifty grains of crystallized muriate of tin ( prepared by boiling tin filings in muriatic acid , and evaporating the solution ) , were dissolved in four ounces of the solution of colouring matter , which immediately assumed a purple tint and became afterwards brown .
It was diluted with twice its bulk of water , and put aside in a stopped phial .
On examining it three days afterwards , a small quantityof abrit : &gt; d powder was observed at the bottom of the p , hial , wiilh preoed to , consist of the colouring principle combined with the metal-lic oxide .
A portion of this compound which has been kept in : water for some weeks has undergone no change of colour ; but when dried by exposure to air , it loses its brilliant tiLt , and becomes of a dull red hue .
: To a compound solution of muriate of tin and colouring matter , similar to that employed in the last experiment , I added a sufficient quantity of solution of potash to decompose the salt of tin .
The precipitate thus obtained was collected , and dried by exposure to the air of a warm room .
It was of a dull red coloulr , and has undergone no apparent change by exposure to the joint action of light and air for three weeks .
4 .
Finding that supertartrate of potash exalted the colour of the blood , I endeavoured to form a compound of it with that substance and oxide of tin , and thus , in some measure , to .
imitate the process in which cochineal is employed for the production of scarlet dye ; but although a bright red compound is produced , when it is dried at a very moderate temperature its colour becomes similar to that of the other combinations which I have described .
These experiments I repeated in various ways , occasionally applying the salt of tin as a mordant to woollen cloth , linen , &amp;c. ; but the brilliancy of the colour was never permanent .
5 .
Having observed that infusion of galls and decoction of oak bark do not impair the colour of the blood , I conceived that solution of tannin might answer the purpose of a mordant , as it is effectually employed by dyers in giving pernanence to some of their red colours .
19 I accordingly impregnated a piece of calico with decoction of oak bark , and afterwards passed it through an aqueous solution of the colouring matter of blood .
When dry , it was of a dirty red colour , nearly similar to that which would have been obtained , had no mordant been applied : when however an alkaline solution of the colouring matter was employed , the colour was equal to that of a common madder red , and as far as I have beenable to ascertain , it is permanent .
6 .
A solution of superacetite of lead was impregnated with the colouring matter of the blood .
The compound was bright red : no spontaneous change took place in it , and on the addition of an alkali a white precipitate was formed , the fluid retaining its former tint .
From this and other experiments , in which it was attempted to combine oxide of lead with the colouring of the blood , it would appear that there is no attraction between those two substances .
7 .
The most effectual mordants , which I have discovered for this colouring matter , are some of the solutions of mercury , especially the nitrate , and corrosive sublimate .
Ten grains of nitrate of mercury ( prepared with heat and containing the red oxide ) , were dissolved in two fluid ounces of a solution of the colouring of the blood .
After some hours a deep red compound was deposited , consisting chiefly of the metallic oxide combined with the colouring matter , and a small portion of coagulated albumen .
The remaining fluid had nearly lost its red colour .
The nitrate of mercury containing the black oxide , produces nearly similar effects , excepting that the colour of the compound is of a lighter red .
When corrosive sublimate is added to the solution of the colouring matter , its tint is instantaneously brightened , and it becomes slightly turbid from the deposition of albumen .
If this be immediately separated by a filter , the liquor which passes through gradually deposits a deep red or purplish insoluble precipitate , and if it now be again filtrated the liquid is colourless , the whole of the colouring principle being retained in the compound which remains upon the filter .
By impregnating some pieces of woollen cloth with solution of nitrate of mercury , or of corrosive sublimate , and afterwards steeping them in an aqueous solution of the colouring matter of the blood , I succeeded in giving them a permanent red tinge , unalterable by washing with soap ; and by employing the ammoniacal solution of the colouring matter , calico and linen may be dyed with the same mordant .
In these experiments I was much satisfied by the complete separation of the colouring matter from its solutions , which after the process , were perfectly colourless .
SECTION VII .
Some Remarks on the preceding experimental Details .
From the experiments related in the second section of this paper , it appears that sulphuric acid effects changes upon the coagulum of chyle , similar to those which Mr. HATCHETT has observed to result from the action of dilute nitric acid upon the coagulated white of egg .
This last substance , however , is not convertible into gelatine by means of sulphuric acid , whereas in these respects the curd of milk resembles that of chyle : this circumstance , as well as the more ready solubility I11 of the coagulum of chyle in dilute , than in concentrated acids , points out a strong analogy between those two bodies .
The sweet taste of chyle naturally suggested the idea of its containing sugar ; * but I am not aware of any direct experiments which have demonstrated its existence , and have therefore detailed minutely such researches as I have been enabled to make upon the subject , hoping at some future period to render them more complete .
The experiments to prove the non-existence of gelatine in the serum of blood , will , I trust , be deemed sufficiently decisive : they show that that abundant proximate principle of animals is not merely separated from the blood , in which it has been supposed to exist ready formed , but that it is an actual product of secretion .
The proportion of iron afforded by the incineration of several varieties of animal coal , is much less considerable than we have been led to expect , and the experiments noticed in the fifth section , show that it is not more abundlant in the colouring matter of the blood , than in the other substances which were submitted to examination ; and that traces of it may be discovered in the chyle which is white , in the serum , and in the washed crassamentum or pure fibrina .
The inferences to which I have alluded , in the first section of this paper , are strongly sanctioned by these facts , and coincide with the opinion which has been laid be foi ; e Rte Ryal Society , by Dr. WELLS , ?
respecting the pecu .
jar nalture of the colouring principle of the blood , al)d support the arguments which are there adduced .
That the colouring matter of t.e blood is perfectly indepe:ndent of iron , is , I conceive , sufficiently evident from its general chemical habitudes , and it appeals probable that'it may prove more useful in the art of dyeing than has hitherto been imagined , since neither the alkalies nor the- : acids ( ( ith the exception of the nitric ) have much tendency to alter its hue .
The readiness too with which its stains are removedfrom substances to which no mordant has been applied , seem to render it peculiarly fit for the purposes of the calico-printer .
I have not extended these experiments , nor have I had:them repeated on a sufficient scale to enable me to draw more general conclusions -respecting thepossibility of applying them with advantage in the arts : this would have led me into too wide a field , and one not immediately connected with the objects of this Society : the subject , however , appears important .
It is not a little remarkable that blood is used by the Arm nian dyers , together with madder , in the preparations of their finest and most durable reds , * and that it has even been found a necessary addition to insure the permanency of the colour.t This fact alone may be regarded as demonstrating the nonexistence of iron as the colouring principle of the blood , for the compounds of that metal convert the red madder to gray and black .
Whilst engaged in examining the colouring matter of the blood , I received from Mr. WILLIAM MONEY , house surgeon to the general hospital at Northampton , some menstruous discharge , collected from a woman with prolapsus uteri , and consequently perfectly free from admixture of other secretions .
It had the properties of a very concentrated solution of the colouring matter of the blood in a diluted serum , and TOOK .
's Russian Empire , Vol. III , p. 497 .
take KIN'S Dictionary , Art .
Dyeing , and Philos. Magazine , Vol. XVIII .
DDCCCXII .
Q i1,3 afforded an excellent opportunity of corroborating the facts respecting this principle , which have been detailed in the precedihg pages .
Although I could detect no traces of iron , by the usual modes of analysis , minute portions of that metal may , and probably do exist in it , as well as in the other animal fluids owhich I have examined ; but the abundance of colouring ' matter in this , secretion should have affirded a proportional quantity of iron , did any connection exist between them .
It has been observed that the artificial solutions of the colouring matter of the blood , invariably exhibit a green tint when viewed by transmitted light : this peculiarity is remarkably distinct in the menstruous discharge.* I hope that some of the facts furnished by the above experiments , may prove useful to the physiological inquirer : they account for the rapid reproduction of perfect blood after very copious bleedings , which is quite inexplicable upon that hypothesis which regards iron as the colouring matter , and may perhaps lead to the solution of some hitherto unexplained phenonmena connected with the function of respiration .
There can , I think , be little doubt that the formation of the colouring matter of the blood is connected with the relmoval of a portion of carbon and hydrogen from that fluid , and that its various tints are dependent upon such modifications of animal matter , and not , as some have assumed , upon the different states of oxidizement of the iron which it has been supposed to contain .
I could discover no globules in this fluid ; and although a very slight degree of putrefaction had commenced in it , yet the globules observed in the blood would not have been destroyed by so trifling a change .
and some other A4nimal Fluids .
By William Thomas Brand , Esq. F. R. S. Communicated to the Society for the Improvement of Animal Chemistry , and by them to the Royal Society .
Read November 21 , i81i .
SECTION 1 .
Introduction .
IN the following pages I shall have the honour of laying before this Society an account of some experiments upon the blood , which were originally undertaken with a view to ascertain the nature of its colouring matter .
The difficulties attendant on the analysis of animal substances have rendered some of the results less decisive than I could have wished , but I trust that the general conclusions to which they lead , will be deemed of sufficient importance to occupy the time of this body .
The existence of iron in the blood was first noticed by MENGHINI , * and its peculiar red colour has been more recently attributed to a combination of that metal with phosphoric acid , by M. M. FOUrRcRO and VAUQUELIN.f The V VINCE NT iu MENGH INU deFerrearum Particularum Progressu in Sanguinem , Comment .
Acad. Bono .
T. z , P. z , page 475 .
f Systeme des Conn. Chym .
Vol. 8 , p. very slight discoloration occasioned by the addition of infusion of galls to a solution of the colouring matter , under circumstances most favourable to the action of that delicate test of iron , first led me to doubt the inferences of those able chemists , and subsequent experiments upon the combinations to which they allude , tended to confirm my suspicion , and induced me to give up no inconsiderable portion of the time which has elapsed since the last meeting of this Society , to the present investigation .
An examination of the chyle and of lymph , in order to compare their composition with that of the blood , formed an important part of this inquiry , especially as those fluids have not hitherto been submitted to any accurate analysis , on account of the difficulty of procuring them in sufficient quantities , and in a state of purity .
Whilst engaged in assisting Mr. HOME in his physiological researches , several opportunities occurred of collecting the contents of the thoracic duct under various circumstances , and in different animals ; on other occasions Mr. BRODIE has kindly furnished me with the materials for experiment , SECTION IL , On the Composition of Chyle .
The contents of the thoracic duct are subject to much variation .
About four hours after an animal has taken food , provided digestion has not been interrupted , the fluid in the duct may be regarded as pure chyle ; it is seen entering by the Iacteals in considerable abundance , and is of an uniform whiteN ness throughout .
At longer periods after a meal , the quantity of chyle begins to diminish , the appearance of the fluid in the duct is similar to that of milk and water ; and lastly , where the animal has fasted for twenty-four hours or longer , the thoracic duct contains a transparent fluid which is pure lymph .
A. The chyle has the following properties .
1 .
When collected without any admixture of blood , it is an opaque fluid of a perfectly white colour , without smell , and having a slightly salt taste , accompanied by a degree of sweetness .
2 .
The colour of litmus is not affected by it , nor that of paper stained with turmeric , but it slowly changes the blue colour of infusion of violets to green .
3 .
Its specific gravity is somewhat greater than that of water , but less than that of the blood ; this , however , is probably liable to much variation .
4 .
In about ten minutes after it is removed from the duct , it assumes the appearance of a stiff jelly , which in the course of twenty-four hours gradually separates into two parts , producing a firm and contracted coagulum , surrounded by a transparent colourless fluid .
These spontaneous changes , which I have observed in every instance where the chyle was examined at a proper period after taking food , are very similar to the coagulation of the blood and its subsequent separation into serum and crassamentum ; they are also retarded and accelerated by similar means .
B. i. The coagulated portion bears a nearer resemblance to the caseous part of milk than to the fibrine of the blood .
2 .
It is rapidly dissolved by the caustic and subcarbonated

