358 Nomination of Officers and Council .
[ Nov. 23 , Wolf ( R. ) Astronomische Mittheilungen .
No. 82 .
8vo . .
] Prof. Wolf .
Woods ( H. ) Elementary Palaeontology for Geological Students .
8vo .
Cambridge 1893 .
The Syndics of the Cambridge University Press .
Bronze copy of the Medal struck by the Royal Society in honour of Capt. Cook , F.R.S. By Sir J. Evans , Treas .
R.S. Framed Drawing of H.M.S. " Resolution , " commanded by Capt. Cook , F.R.S. , during his Second Expedition to the South Seas .
Mr. H. Rickinson .
Bust , in plaster , of the late Dr. J. P. Joule , F.R.S. Mr. B. Joule .
Four Lantern Slides , Eclipse of April , 1893 , from Prof. Schaeberle 's Negatives .
Lick Observatory , per the British Astronomical Association .
" November 23 , 1893 .
Sir JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair , and the list of Officers and Council nominated for election was read as follows:\#151 ; President.\#151 ; The Lord Kelvin , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; Sir John Evans , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. f Professor Michael Foster , M.A. , M.D. Secretaries .
^he Lord Rayleigh , M.A. , D.C.L. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Sir Joseph Lister , Bart. , F.R.C.S. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Professor Isaac Bailey Balfour , M.A. ; Andrew Ainslie Common , LL. D. ; Andrew Russell Forsyth , Sc. D.* ; Richard Tetley Glazebrook , M.A. ; Professor Alexander Henry Green , M.A. ; Sir John Kirk , K.C.B. ; Professor Oliver Joseph Lodge , D.Se .
; Sir John Lubbock , Bart. , D.C.L. ; William Davidson 1893 .
] Photographic Spectrum of Electrolytic Iron .
Niven , M.A. ; William Henry Perkin , LL. D. ; the Marquis of Salisbury , K.G. , M.A. ; Professor J. S. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. ; Adam Sedgwick , M.A. ; Professor Thomas Edward Thorpe , Sc. D. ; Professor William Augustus Tilden , D.Sc .
; Professor W. Cawthorne Unwin , B.Sc. The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " The Photographic Spectrum of Electrolytic Iron .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received October 27 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) This investigation is an extension of the author 's earlier researches on the spectrum of iron , and supplements the important paper published by Thalen in 1884 .
Since the work was commenced , two other papers on the spectrum of iron have been published , one by Professors Kayser and Rung , of the Hanover Technical High School , and the other by Mr. P. McClean .
In the former , the arc spectrum of ordinary commercial iron was in question .
The wave-lengths were determined by micrometric measures , a number of standard lines being used to construct the interpolation curves .
Mr. McClean 's paper consists of a series of photographic comparisons of the spark spectrum of iron and the solar spectrum .
A knowledge of the true spectrum of iron is of the utmost importance , both for solar and stellar work .
Comparisons in terms of iron are very important , and such a comparison is a natural first step in their study when we have a terrestrial iron spectrum about which there is no doubt .
Thalen 's memoir is practically complete so far as the visible are spectrum of iron is concerned .
The photographic arc spectrum over the same region has not , however , hitherto received such minute attention .
This subject has been taken up at Kensington by photographically comparing the spectrum of iron with the solar spectrum , between Fraunhofer 's lines K and C. For this purpose , a small portion of some iron of exceptional purity , prepared by electrolytic deposition by Professor W. C. Roberts-Austen , was placed by him at the author 's disposal .
A part was arranged to form the poles of an electric arc lamp , which was placed about 4 ft. from the slit of a Steinheil spectroscope , having three prisms of 45 ' , and one of 60 ' , an image of the arc being formed on the slit plate by a suitable lens .
The current employed was from a " Victoria " Brush dynamo , driven by an " Otto " gas engine , and making about 850 revolutions per minute .
The region of the spectrum between K and C was photographed on four plates .
For the region between K and F ordinary photo- Photographic Spectrum of Electrolytic Iron .
[ Nov. 23 , graphic plates were used , but for the spectrum from F to C specially prepared plates were employed .
The wave-lengths of the lines have been determined by reference to Professor Rowland 's second series of photographic prints of the solar spectrum , and , consequently , are all expressed on Rowland 's scale .
Tables of the wave-lengths and intensities of all the lines in the photographs have been compiled , and a comparison instituted between the Kensington results and those of Thalen , Messrs. Kayser and Runge , and McClean .
Though the iron used was the purest obtainable , a few of the lines are probably due to impurities , and these have been indicated in the tables .
Many of the faint lines mapped by Messrs. Kayser and Runge are evidently due to impurities in the iron used in their researches , and the origin of these lines has been traced , as far as possible , by reference to the , as yet , unpublished Kensington maps of metallic arc spectra , and the results are shown in the tables .
The comparisons have led to the following conclusions:\#151 ; 1 .
The visual spectrum , as mapped by Thalen , differs but slightly in essential points from that which has been photographed at Kensington .
The principal difference is the greater number of lines mapped by Thalen in all regions except that between wave-lengths 4000 and 4800 .
This is probably to be accounted for by the insufficient exposure of the photographs , which was necessitated by the limited amount of material available for the experiments .
2 .
The comparison with the spectrum photographed by Mr. McClean , indicates that the experimental conditions employed by him produced a temperature not greatly differing from that of the arc employed at Kensington .
There are only a few lines which are not common to the two series of photographs , and these , in many cases , can , with certainty , be ascribed to impurities present in one case and not in the other .
The apparent differences in intensity between some of the lines which are common to both are mostly due to superposition of the spectrum of air upon that of iron in Mr. McGlean s photographs .
In some cases , however , there appears to be a real difference in the intensities of the lines , and this may probably oe ascribed to the difference between the temperatures employed .
3 .
The number of lines mapped by Messrs. Kayser and Runge is considerably in excess of that mapped by the author in corresponding regions of the spectrum .
The comparison indicates that this is'partly due to the fact that the iron employed in their experiments contained a greater number of impurities than that employed at Kensington .
No origins have been 1893 .
] Magnetic Observations Senegambia .
301 traced for many of the lines present in their photographs , which do not appear in the Kensington photographs , and some of these may , therefore , be really due to iron , their absence from the Kensington photographs being due to insufficient exposure , or to the employment of different temperatures .
The almost constant difference of OT tenth-metre between the two sets of measures is a satisfactory indication of the accuracy of both .
4 .
The impurities which contribute the greater number of foreign lines to the spectrum of the electrolytic iron employed by the author are Ca and Mn , though there is decided evidence of the presence in minute quantities of various other elements .
This research on the arc spectrum of iron is made in connection with a wider investigation on the arc spectra of the other metallic elements , the results of which will be communicated to the Society in due course .
II .
" Magnetic Observations in Senegambia .
" By T. E. Thorpe , F.R.S. , and P. L. Gray , B.Sc. , Assoc. R.C.S. Received October 31 , 1893 .
On the occasion of the recent Eclipse Expedition to Senegambia we took with us a set of magnetic instruments of the Kew pattern , with a view of making observations in a district for which the magnetic elements have not hitherto been determined .
The instruments employed were magnetometer No. 61 , by Elliott Brothers , dip circle No. 94 , by Dover , and chronometer Dent 1932 .
They were part of the equipment made use of in connexion with the Magnetic Survey of the British Isles .
Observations were made at Eundium , Senegal , and at Bathurst , on the River Gambia .
The results are as follows :\#151 ; .
Fundium , Senegal , lat. 14 ' 7 , -4 N. , long .
16 ' 32 ' W. ( approx. ) .
The observations were made in the vicinity of the Eclipse Camp , and on a partially enclosed piece of ground between the Administrator 's house and the River Salum , about 80 yards from the shore .
The temperature during the force observations was about 30 ' C.

