165 Note on Fluorescence and Absorption .
By John Butler Burke , M.A. ( Communicated by Professor Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received March 13 , \#151 ; Read March 30 , 1905 .
) In a , paper " On the Change of Absorption produced by Fluorescence , " * I described the existence of a very remarkable difference in the absorption of the fluorescent light of uranium glass , when in the luminous and non-luminous states .
This difference I have attributed !
to a temporary change in the structure or chemical composition of the body when exposed to the influence of the exciting light ; and I have been led to suppose that it is due to the formation of new atomic connections which give rise to new frequencies during the period of luminosity .
These I regarded as the result of the formation of unstable molecular aggregates by the more refrangible or exciting rays ; and the luminosity or fluorescence , as the radiation which results from the breaking down of such unstable molecular groups .
As in the case of photographic action , some chemical change appears to be produced by the blue and violet rays ; the two cases differing , from the physical point of view , merely so far as the molecular aggregations , instead of remaining fixed , rapidly disintegrate , radiating intensely at the same time the energy which was stored up in their formation .
Thus the luminosity itself is but the visible manifestation of the building up and breaking down of what are probably complicated molecular agglomerations .
In their very interesting and important paper on this subject , !
Messrs. Nichols and Merritt have shown that the phenomenon of the change of absorption depends upon the intensity of the fluorescence .
They find that a saturation effect takes place as the intensity of the luminosity increases , so that the change of absorption reaches a maximum with a certain intensity of the fluorescent light .
In my experiments the transmitted light , the absorption of which was measured , was of precisely the same frequency as that emitted by the absorbing body ; its source being another similar fluorescent substance likewise in a state of fluorescence .
Messrs. Nichols and Merritt , however , have found that * ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1898 .
t ' Brit. Assoc. Report , ' Belfast , 1902 ( cf. Sir G. G. Stokes , * Math , and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 3 ( 1901 ) , p. 310 ; also " On the Discharge of Phosphorescence , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 34 , 1882 , p , 63 , or 'Papers , ' vol. 5 , p. 118 ) .
X 'Physical Review , ' December , 1904 , p. 396 .
166 On Fluorescence and Absorption .
the same effect occurs when the source of the transmitted light is an acetylene flame .
Although this includes rays in the more refrangible part of the spectrum , which increase the fluorescence of the absorbing body and thereby diminish its apparent coefficient of transmission , yet , provided this factor remains constant , the variation in the absorption of the light from the flame , corresponding to that of the fluorescence due to some other exciting source , should still take place and be noticeable , if the change is considerable , as I found it to be .
And they have found no difficulty in observing the result , as I have done .
The object of this note is to call attention to M. Camichel 's paper on Fluorescence in the ' Comptes Eendus ' ( January 16 , 1905 ) , as he obtained a negative result .
This may have been due to the feebleness of the fluorescence on the one hand , and on the other to the fact that the precaution which he takes of using a fluorescent screen , 7 cm .
in thickness , to cut off the more refrangible rays from the flame ( a precaution which , as I have said , is unnecessary ) ought also to stop the greater portion of the rays , the absorption of which by another but similar body , he desires to detect .
The parallelopiped of uranium glass , 7 cm .
in length , must itself fluoresce , and in so doing , if the effect he seeks occurs , absorb the very rays whose absorption later on by a cube of uranium glass he proposes to measure .
Furthermore , the fluorescent spectrum of uranium glass is composed of several bands , and these , I think , in turn are not continuous but made up of finely divided smaller bands or lines .
The prevalent idea that the spectrum of fluorescent and phosphorescent bodies is continuous is , I think , erroneous ; for whenever I have been able to get the luminosity of sufficient brightness , the spectrum which , when the light was feeble , seemed continuous , was found distinctly to be made up of finer bands ; whilst when the intensity was diminished the distinctly bandlike spectrum was once more found to be dimmed and become continuous .
Therefore if , by any means , the light of precisely the same period as the fluorescent light be sifted , or removed , from the spectrum of the light transmitted through uranium glass , we should not expect to get any variations in the absorption corresponding to the changes in the body during the fluorescent state .
M. Ch. Ed. Guillaume and M. A. Cotton , who have taken much interest in the bearing of Kirchhoff 's law on fluorescence , have written to me expressing their concurrence with this aspect of the question .
I should like to add , in conclusion , that there does not seem to be any reason to suppose , as M. Camichel implies , that the vibrations of the fluorescent light should not be linear , when the absorption depends on the intensity of the The Direct Synthesis of Ammonia .
fluorescent light .
It is true that it would not depend upon the amplitudes of the vibrations ; but if new free periods are excited as I have described , the intensity and the absorption would both depend upon the number , and the duration of the periods thus produced , and it is this which , I think , the change of absorption in fluorescence most distinctly proves .
The Direct Synthesis of Ammonia .
By Edgar Philip Perman , D.Sc .
, Assistant Professor of Chemistry at University College , Cardiff .
( Communicated by Principal E. H. Griffiths , F.R.S. Received January 3 , and in revised form , March 4 , \#151 ; Read March 30 , 1905 .
) it was shown in a recent paper on " The Decomposition of Ammonia by Heat , " * that ammonia is decomposed almost ( if not quite ) completely when heated in a porcelain vessel at about 800 ' to 1100 ' , and that there is no sign of equilibrium between the ammonia and its decomposition products at any of the temperatures employed , 677 ' to 1111 ' .
In order to discover if there is any such state of equilibrium , it was thought better to attempt to reach that state by synthesising ammonia instead of decomposing it , as the testing for and estimation of the ammonia could then be carried out with much greater accuracy .
Preparation of the Mixed Gases.\#151 ; In the first series of experiments , the mixture of nitrogen and hydrogen was made by passing ammonia gas , from a strong aqueous solution , through a red-hot iron tube heated in a gas furnace , and the resulting gases were collected in a large gasholder and stored over dilute sulphuric acid .
It may be objected to this method of preparation that carbon monoxide , hydrogen , and other gases would percolate through the iron , and contaminate the product obtained .
In order to test this point , a careful analysis of the gases was made , with the result that no carbon monoxide could be detected by the blood test ; no carbon dioxide was found after exploding the gases with oxygen ; and the ratio of nitrogen to hydrogen was found to be correct .
The mixture of gases made by this method will be referred to as " Mixed Gases I. " It was thought , nevertheless , that traces of foreign gases might have escaped detection , and might possibly have influenced the results .
Consequently a second series of experiments was carried out with a mixture of * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 , p. 110 , 1904 .
VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; A. N

