The reading of Dr. Davy 's Paper , entitled , " An Account of some experiments and observations on the Torpedo , " was resumed and concluded .
The late Sir Humphry Davy gave an account , in a paper pub ?
lished in the Philosophical Transactions for 1829 , of some experiments which he made on the Torpedo , with the view of ascertaining how far its electricity is analogous to that of the voltaic , or other galvanic batteries ; but the results he obtained were altogether of a negative kind .
He was prevented by the declining state of his health from prosecuting this inquiry , which he was still ardently bent upon completing , and which he requested his brother would carry on after his death .
The author , accordingly , when at Malta , being in a fa ?
vourable situation for obtaining living torpedos , made the series of experiments which are related in the present paper .
They entirely eonfirm those of Mr. Walsh made in 1772 , and which established the resemblance of the agency exerted by this fish to common electricity ; and they also prove that , like voltaic electricity , it has the power of giving magnetic polarity to steel , of deflecting the magnetic needle , and also of effecting certain chemical changes in fluids subjected to its action .
Needles perfectly free from magnetism were introduced within a spiral coil of copper wire , containing about 180 convolutions ; the whole coil being an inch and a half long and one tenth of an inch in diameter , weighing only four grains and a half , and being contained in a glass tube just large enough to receive it .
On the electric discharges from a vigorous torpedo being made to pass through the wire during a few minutes , the needles were ren ?
dered strongly magnetic .
The same influence transmitted through the wires of the multiplier produced very decided deflexion of the needle ; the under surface of the electrical organ of the torpedo corresponding in its effect to the zinc plate of the simple voltaic circle , and the upper surface corresponding to the copper plate .
No effect of ignition could be perceived when the discharge from the torpedo was made to pass through a silver wire one thousandth of an inch in diameter : nor could unequivocal evidence be obtained of the production of sparks on interrupting the circuit ; the slight lu ?
minous appearances which occurred being probably of the same kind as those often exhibited by sea water when agitated .
A small gold chain , however , composed of sixty double links , was found to be capable of transmitting the shock ; a fact which seems to show that air is not impermeable to the electricity of the torpedo .
When fine silver wires , interrupted by a solution of common salt , were placed in the circuit , minute bubbles of air collected round the point communicating with the under side of the torpedo , but none at the other point .
When gold wires , instead of the silver ones , were used , gas was evolved from each of the extremities ; but in greatest quantity , and in smaller bubbles , from the lower , than from the upper wire .
With a strong solution of nitrate of silver , the point of the lower gold wire became black , and only two or three bubbles arose from it ; the point of the upper gold wire remaining bright , and being surrounded with many bubbles .
Similar , but less distinct , results were obtained by employing a strong solution of superacetate of lead .
The remainder of the paper is occupied with a detailed account of the anatomical structure of the electrical organs of the torpedo , and of the muscles that surround them .
The texture of the columnar portions of those organs appears to be homogeneous , with the exception of a few fibres , probably branches of nerves , which pass into them .
A large quantity of water , separable by evapora ?
tion , enters into their composition : and they undergo spontaneous changes more slowly than the muscles .
They are incapable of con ?
traction by any of the ordinary stimuli , and even that of an electric shock from a voltaic battery , applied either to the organs themselves or to the nerves which supply them .
Hence the conclusion is drawn that these organs are not muscular , but that their columns are formed by tendinous and nervous fibres , distended by a thin ge ?
latinous fluid .
The anatomical account is concluded by a description of the origin , course , and distribution of the nerves belonging to the electrical organs .
The author found that the gastric nerves are derived from these ; and hazards the conjecture that superfluous electricity may , when not required for the defence of the animal , be directed to the stomach , so as to promote digestion : in corroboration of which he cites the instance of a torpedo which , when living , had been frequently excited to give shocks , and in whom a small fish found in its stomach after death , appeared to be totally undigested .
The secretion of mucus was also either suppressed or considerably diminished .
From the circumstance that the branchiae are supplied with twigs of the electrical nerves , the author conceives there may be some connexion between the electrical and the respiratory functions ; and that the evolved electricity may be employed in decomposing water , and in thus supplying the system with air , in situations where the animal has not access to that of the atmosphere .
The author considers the mucous system of the torpedo as performing important offlces in its economy , in consequence of its connexions with the electrical nerves .
Contrary to the statement of Mr. Hunter , he finds that the electrical organs are very scantily supplied with blood-vessels .
He concludes by some remarks on the peculiar characters of the electricity of the Torpedo , the purposes it appears to serve , and the varieties exhibited by different individuals , according to the age , the sex , and other circumstances .
The Meetings of the Society were then adjourned over Easter to the third of May .

