]\gt ; Mr. J. Buchanan .
[ May 27 , Their trusworthiness when applied to individual families is shown as strongly in Table , whose results are conveniently summarised in Table .
I have there classified the amounts of error in the several calculations : thus if the estimae in any one family was -eyed children and the observed number was 4 , I should count the error as I have worked to one place of decimals in this table , in order to bring out the different shades of trustworthiness in the three sets of calcula , tions , which thus become very apparent .
It will be seen that the calculations in Ctass III are by far the most precise .
Iu more than one-half of those calculations the error does not exceed , whereas in I and II more than three-quarters of them are wrong to at least that amount .
Only one-quarter of Class III are more than 11 in error , but some- where about the half of Classes I and II are wrong to that amount .
In comparing I with II , we find 1 to be slightly , bnt I think distinctly , the superior estimate .
The relative accuracy of III as compared with I and , is what we should have expected , supposing the basis of the calculations to be true , because the additional knowledge utilised in III , over what is turned to account in I and II , must be an advantage .
Conclusion.\mdash ; The general trustworthiness of these calculations of the probable proportion of light-eyed and dark-eyed children in individual families , whose ancestral eye-colour is more or less known , is comparable with the chance of drawing a white or a black ball out of a bag in which the relative numbers white and black balls are the same as those given by the calculation .
The larger the proportion of data derived from a certain knowledge of ancestral eye-colours , and not from inferences about them , the more true does the parison become .
My returns are insufficiently nnmerous and too subject to uncertainty of observation to make it worth while to submit them to a more rigorous analysis , but the broad conclusion to which the present resuIts irresistibly lead , is that the same peculiar hereditary relation that was shown to subsist between a man and each of his ancestors iu respect to the quality of stature , also subsists in respect to that of eye-colour .
II .
eneral Theorem in Electrostatic Induction , vithAppli- cation of it to the Origin of Electrificatiom by Friction.\ldquo ; By JOHN BUCHANAN , B.Sc. , Demonstrator of University College , London .
Communlcated by Professor G. AREY FOSTER , B.A. , F.R.S. Received May 13 , 1886 .
PART I. This paper contains the results of an investigation into the question : If a dielectric be brought into a field of electric force , and there its 1886 .
] A General Theorem in jtrostatic Induction .
417 specific inductive city is changed , what will be the electrical condition of the dielectric P The subject has occupied me both in its theoretical and experimental aspects for a considerable time , and I believe that the answer to the question throws light upon some fundamental electrical phenomena .
This investigation has led me to a general theorem in ] ectrostatic induction which may be stated as follows:\mdash ; When a dielectric is brouglJt into a field of electric force and the specific inductive capacity is there altered , in general the dielectric becomes electrified .
To give definiteness to our notions , Jet us imagine a field of electric force to be due to an eIectrified conductor , which we will call the " " primary enclosing this primary is a conducting shell which is connected to earth .
For simplicity we will assume , for the present , that the charge on the primary remains unchanged in magnitude during this series of operations : \mdash ; ( 1 .
) The dielectric is brought into the field of force ; ( 2 .
) The specific inductive capacity is nncreased ; ( 3 .
) The dielecbric is carried otlt of the field .
The state of the field is exactly the same as it was before the done awork dforces issisting tring tielectric intoLet uompare tectrical forces wperations ( operations were performed .
We can therefore fix our attention on the dielectric .
the field ; work is also done by ( say ) the forces in ( 2 ) .
In operation ( 3 ) work is done against electrical forces .
The question to be answered is this , does the following equation hold in every case i ) Work done by electrical forces in bringing the dielectric into the field bove equation sways heems ttwhose energy wxcess oonereason txpect tfind aectric distribution oectricvarian.ound conceptions regarding tffect orbitrarychange istate owork dainst eforces.quation bnder acircumstances , there iwork dainst tforces iiece oLcap.acityout o 1886 .
] A General Theorem in Electrostatic .
41 !
) the quantity need not be zero , unless under very special circumstances .
As it appears in ( 1 ) , is clearly the quantity of electricity that must be given to the primary in order to maintain the potential constant whilst the specific inductive capacity is aItered by , and this in addition to the influence of the mere change of capacity of the system .
We may assume as a well-known result that for a closed cycle of and is a perfect differenbial .
* Expressed in words , this is equivalent to statin , .
that , when aftel undergoing a series of changes , the potential is brought back to any given value V , and the molecular condition of the dielectric in the field of force is brought back to its initial state , then the charge of the primary is the same as at firsb .
The analytical statement of the condition that in ( 1 ) is a perfect differential gives us\mdash ; , or . . . . . .
In order to obtain another reIation between the quantities , let ns denote by the increment of electrical energy of the system during the series of operations described above as leading to ( 1 ) .
This is expressed by an equation of the form\mdash ; . . . . .
( 3 ) S The meaning of the first term of the right hand number of ( 3 ) ; the other term , , denotes the work done electrical forces when the specific inductive capacity of the dielectric is increased by By the principle of the conservation of energy , for a closed cycle of operations and is a perfect .
Hence , if we 6xpress the analyticnl condition of this , after putting for its value from ( 1 ) , we get\mdash ; * I would here acknowledge my great indebtedness to a paper on the " " Conserl { 1tion of Electricity by M. G. Lippmann , " " Annales de Chimie et de Physiqu Ser. , T. 24 ( 1881 ) p. 145 .
Mr. J. Buchanan .
[ May 27 , forming the differentiations and making use of ( 2 ) we have\mdash ; .
( 4 .
) If ( 4 ) be differentiated with respect to and be again applied , find\mdash ; . . . . . . . . .
( 5 .
) Hence , finally , the theorem can be expressed in either of the forms \mdash ; . . . . . .
( 6 .
) .
Since as a rnle will probably increase with will usually have the same sign as The form ( 6 ) , amongst other uses , enables us to get at once an important resuIt , viz. , the circumstances under which is .
We have V. Integrating twice we get successively\mdash ; where is an arbitrary constant ; and . . . . . . .
( 7 .
) The constant of the second integration will in general be zero : Equation ( 7 ) , in connexion with ( 5 ) , gives by differentiation , const .
It appears therefore that in order to have no electrification of the dielectric when the specific inductive is altered , the change of capacity of the system must be proportional to the change of specific inductive capacity .
S 1886 .
] A General Theorem in Electrostatic lnduction .
421 Remark also that since must in general be positive , the quantity , and therefore also , must be negative , by ( 7 ) .
It is not difficult to prove that the condition const .
leads to the conclusion that the whole electric field must be occupied by an electrically homogeneous dielectric .
The following proof seems to be ( ionvenient .
Let us imagine the assumed heterogeneous medium to consist of shells of dielectric material whose boundaries are equipotential surfaces ; each ] supposed to be itself homogeneous .
If the bounding equipotential surfaces consisted of excessively thin conducting shells , the distribution of electric force in the field would be uJlaltered .
Each ltive pair of conducting equipotential surfaces with the ( homogeneous ) shell of dielectric between , would then form a condensel And since the same quantity of electric induction crosses the equipotenbial sm.faces in the field , the capacity of the whole system would be simply that of a series of condensers in " " cascade When air is the dielectric , denote the capa , city of the condenser which consists of the primary , the first conducting equipotential surface , and the space between , by ; the capacity of the condensel formed by the first and second equipotentials by , and so on .
instead of air , the spaces be respectiveIy filled up by dielectrics of specific inductive capacities , and so on , we have for the capacity of the whole system , the relation\mdash ; .
Replacing the shells of dielectric by others of different specific inductive capacity , and denoting the changed quantities by dashes , have\mdash ; . .
Let now . .
so that the alteration of specific inductive capacity is the same for all the dielectrics .
It is evident that unless\mdash ; and it is impossible thab should be independent of 422 Mr. J. Buchanan .
[ May 27 , The conclusion given above follows at once .
To sum up the discussion , the result is that the equations ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) , and ( 6 ) express the effect of heterogeneity in the constitution of the dielectric medium .
Note.\mdash ; It may be well to here an objection that might be raised against the validity of the above theorem .
It could be urged , that since Dr. Hopkinson has found by experiment*that no change of specific inductive capacity couId be detected when glass was subjected to electric stress through a very wide range of luagnitudes , the quantity in the theorem has no existence .
The experiments just to , however , only prove that the quantity is very small .
It is shown in Part II of this paper that for most substances has a value different from zero , positive in some cases , nogative in others .
PART II .
Application to the Theory of the Origin of Electrification by Friction .
The rubbing together of two bodies is the most ancient means known of obtaining electricity .
The absence of any accepted explanation of this historical mode of rendering a body electrified does not need to be enlarged upon .
I have ventured to entertain the hope that the general theorem proved above , together with the experime1ltal resuIts obtained by Dr. Kerr in his memorable researches in the region of " " electro-optics , \ldquo ; may be found to prove adequate to the explanation of the fundamental and important subject of electrification by friction .
As is well known , Dr. Kerr has proved that transparent dielectrics become as a rule doubly refracting when subjected to eIectric force .
Under the action of electric stress , a dielectric becomes strained .
lVith the electric stress different different parts of the field of force , the strain varies from point to point .
This space-variation of strain manifests itseIf optically by the material assuminthe property of converting plane polarised into elliptically polarised light , when the incident light is passed transversely across the direction of the electric induction in the dielectric , and the plane of polarisation is inclined at an angle to this direction .
Moreover , as has been pointed out and proved experimentally by Prof. Quincke , the electrically-induced strain\mdash ; the effect of which Dr. Kerr observed as double refraction\mdash ; produces a change in the of refraction .
When the strain is uniform , Quincke has shown that no double refraction ensues .
Doubly .
properties are * ( Phil. Trans vol. 172 , p. 356 ( 1881 ) .
Quincke , " " On Electrical nsion , \ldquo ; " " Phil. Mag Ser. 6 , vol. , p. 30 .
of refraction when placed in a field of electric force .
Now , whatever opinion may be held concerning the electroma , netic theory of light , there can be no doubt that along with change of index of refraction of a dielectric , there goes always change of inductive capacity .
With the supposition we have made above regarding the sign of the change of of refraction produced in the dielectrics examined by Dr. Kerr , his results when expressed in electrical terms translate into the statements that : " " positive\ldquo ; dielectric has ibs specific inductive capacity decreased by eIectric force ; " " negative\ldquo ; dielectric } ) its specilic inductive capacity increased by electric force .
In view of the theorem proved in I of this communication , this form of statement is important .
body decreased in presence of afieldofforce , thenueaya the electric It means that if the specific inductive capacity of a " " positive\ldquo ; forces assist this change\mdash ; work is done these forces .
On the other , if the specific inducti capacity be increased , is done ag.ainst the forces of the field .
ignsLet upose tectric iaced iorcebeginning oumber iirst twith teturn nquation ( orresponding statements fnegative \ldquo ; bodies b 424 Mr. J. Buchanan .
[ May 27 , with .
Let us denote by the value of .
when ; then according to the view adopted in this paper , is a quantity which has a value characteristic of each material , and may be regarded as a property of each material in the same sense as , for instance , the index of refraction .
Let now the specific inductive capacity of the dielectric be increased by .
Thus the tendency is for the dielectric to become electrified with a quantity of electricity\mdash ; This tendency being equal in all directions there is no resultant electrification .
If , however , another dielectric is put into close contact with the first , dissymmetry is introduced .
Denoting by the suffixes ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) the quantities relating to the two dielectrics , and by the electrification , we have initially , These two equations express my view of the mode in which electrification begins when two dielectrics are put into contact and their specific inductive capacities are altered .
The chan of specific inductive capacity may take place either by or by friction\mdash ; with liquids it is probable that only the heating effect of friction can fluence the results .
According to what law the electrification goes on increasing when once started is a point still to be cleared up , the value for any material of the quantity having still to be worked out experimentally .
Before discussing ( 8 ) it is convenient here to notice that when two bodies are in very close contact , the capacity of the system that consists of the two opposed surfaces and the extremely small distance between them , must be very great indeed .
If then at any moment be the charge on either of these opposed surfaces and denote the capacity of the Stem , then ( 6 ) becomes\mdash ; , nearly , condition.revity aonvenience , wenee ooxwood a\ldquo ; positive , work igainst eectric forces bssion oecond b creasing the specific inductive capacity . .
" " Positive\ldquo ; liquids .
If a liquid dielectrio be warmed , the index of refraction , and therefore the specific inductive capacity , is decreased .
Hence , by friction there is a change of specific inductive capacity to be expected .
Using in the same sense as It is shown by the experimental resuIts quoted below , that positive indicates that by friction this class of liquids tends to become positively electrified .
And since in this particular case the sign of ; urface , tends thange tpecific inductive capacity bught tPositive\ldquo ; emperature amount ecific inductive capacity increa.ecbrified byffiction .
Negative , iquids .
Friction tends tecrease tpecific Such bodies tend become negatively electrified by friction .
Oase II .
Mr. J. Buchanan .
[ May 27 , ( d ) .
" " Negative\ldquo ; solids .
Friction tends to increase the specific inductive capacity , ' ' Negative\ldquo ; solids therefore tend to become positively electrified by friction .
The conclusions under , ( b ) , , ( d ) are all found to be verified by experiment .
Professor Fostor has suggested to me that , in connexion with the ideas by eqnation ( 8 ) , it is interesting to find the statement by that the cause of the electrical difference set up between two pieces of similar ribbon when rubbed lies in the unequal warming of the opposed surfaces .
The oft-quoted experiments of Faraday with a feather and piece of nvas fall obviousJy under the same head .
I may perhaps be allowed to cite in addition some very old experiments with glass made by Bergman .
On rubbing two similar strips of glass together , the portion of the surface of either strip which received the eatest amount of friction per nnit area became positive .
This agrees perfectly with what may be deduced from ( 8 ) .
For the two strips , was the same ; hence by ( 8 ) .
If we get positive , as Bergman found .
Exper.menfs on the Electr.ifiration of Steam by Friction .
The experimental results given below are far from complete ; but I venture to publish as affording in some measure an experimental verification of the ideas put forward in Part I. method of experimenting and the ement of apparatus employed were essentially the same as used by Faraday in his classical experiments on this same subject .
It is needless for me to say how much I am indebted to 's observations during the whole of this experimental .
Like all that the great experimenter undertook , the record of his observations in the " " Researches " " is a treasure-house for later experimenters to draw supplies from .
To generate steam , a vertical copper boiler was used , which was heated by gas led to the burner by india-rubber tubing .
By placing the boiler on small blocks of shellac the insulation was found at all times to be excellent .
The weather was very favourable .
*Riess , " " Reibungs-Electricitat , \ldquo ; S 914 .
Ibid. , S913 , fig. 175 .
Researches S 2075 , et seq. right aenew tpassed tweep taway Trrang eoundth ieces tconvenient iorki awith atopcock , used tentre atand about 1hort 1rowt berimented oteam wtube wontain tncewith dater , arad oints oiameter .
This siedindicatorth eiment odiameter acondition oIing troug gubeto i For the friction-piece that was rubbed by the current of fluid , I worked principally with a boxwood tube of as nearly as was con- enient the dimensions of the described by Faraday as an " " excellent exciter.\ldquo ; * By a fortunate chance , this tube was found to be very nearly at the neutral line where Dr. Kerr 's " " positive\ldquo ; and " " negative\ldquo ; substances meet .
In order to find out if possible what was the meaning of some anomalous results that appeared in the experiments , a number of S servations were made with , amon , st others , tubes of pine , hawthorn , birch , sulphur , plaster-of-paris , and a tube formed out of a iece of carbon rod cm .
diameter , such as is used in electric lighting .
The resuIts obtained with the sulphur and plaster-of-paris tubes were interesting , but iu no way decisive , as the tubes were iound to have become very much disintegrated by the action of the current of stearn ; they are , therefore , not recorded in what follows .
The results with the hawbhorn tube will illustrate the effect of $ -tubes of materials whose place is on the negative side of the neutral ; carbon stands on the positive side .
the resuIts with methylic alcohol and amylic alcohol as Between the two lies the boxwood tube .
This is well shown by shown in the list given below .
waterThe .
wooden tubes used were always kept well soaked with distilled After each day 's work with the apparatus , it was taken to pieces , and the copper steam-globe and the feeder-tube were left to steep in a Htrong solution of carbonate of soda ; then they were well rinsed out with distilled water before being used again .
As occasion required , *""Experimental Besearches footnote , S2102 .
1886 .
] A eneral Theorem in lectrostatic Iduction .
uIts ( November , 1884 ) .
bnheorn To the above may be added a list of solids whose electro-optical osit have been determined by Dr. Kerr .
The electrical position of the first two is well known .
The others I examined by rubbing them with the same boxwood tube as was employed in the experiments with fluids .

