]\gt ; 6 .
Copper sulphate and basic acetate of ] cause in excess ; mercuric chloride , a precipitate insoluble in excen .
7 .
Copper sulphate and potash give a pink coloration ( biuret eaction ) .
the albumoses occurring in the vegetable kingdom I proposed the name talburnoses , as they differ in many respects from the animal varieties .
The phytalbumose in Abrus is closely allied to Kuhne and Chit .
tenden 's deubero-albumose , * and identical with the occurring in the papaw juice .
There are , therefore , two proteids in the seeds of Abrus a vegetable and -phytalbumose .
In conjunct , ion with Dr. Wolfenden , I am now engaged in tigating the physiologicaI action of each of these proteids , and hope soon to publish the results .
the present it will be sufficient to call to notice the close resemblance between the proteids of the papaw juice and those of jequirity , since their physiological action appears to be in many respects similar* VIII .
" " On the Diameters of Plane Cubics .
Preliminary Notice By J. J. WALKER , F.R.S. Received April 2 , 1887 .
I showed some time back ( ' London Math. Soc. Proc vol. 10 , pp. 184-5 ) that the Newtonian diameters of a plane cubic envelope a conic , called hereinafter its " " centroid the equation of which , if in the system of co-ordinates chosen the line at infinity be is generally The " " centroid\ldquo ; has the same " " criterion-function but with changed sign , as the cubic ; , it is equal to minus one-fourth of the reciprocal of , with the substitution of for ; i.e. , if be written . . .
the criterion-fnnction is equal to ; * Kuhne and Chittenden , .
Albumosen 'Zeitschr .
fur Biologie , ' vol. 20 .
" " Nature of Papain , \amp ; c 'Journ .
of Physiol vol. 6 , p. 344 .
that the centroid cuts the line at infinity in two real , coincident , or imaginary points , according as of the thres intersections of the cubic with that line are unreal , coincident or real .
The discriminant of the centroid is , similarly , equal to minus onesquare of the " " Cayleyan\ldquo ; of the cubic , with the same through aointsystem oarallel pass two chords .
which have that as mean point .
Considering the points then on a given diameter , its own cbords through those pointb are all parallel to the polar of its own mean point with respect to the " " centroid which polar is itself a double chord ; the other system of chords touch a parabola , which is touched by the diameter itseIf at own mean point ; , for that point the diameter is itself the chord of the second system ; and the connector of that point with the centre of the " " centroid\ldquo ; is a diameter of the parabola .
To eve ] diametel of the cubic corresponding to a parabola , the envelope of ] these parabolas is a quartic curve ; whils the double chords , which otherwise distinguished as those having their mean points on the " " centroid envelope a second cuspidal quartic .
The locus of the msan points of the diameters of the cubic is a second cubic , having a node at the centre of the " " centroid and its ymptotes as its nodal tangents .
Every diameter cuts this cubic in its own mean point , and the mean points of two other diameters ; .and this latter .
of points are harmonic conjugates with respect to the first and the point of contact of the diamster with the " " centroid If the " " centroid " " is an ellipse its centre is merely an acnode , 01 conjugate point , on the locus of mean points of diameters .
The elliptic cubic\mdash ; that which has only one real point on the line at infinity\mdash ; has two real conjugate diameters , i.e. , diameters each of which is the locus of mean points of chords parallel to the other , the asymptotes of the ( then hyperbolic " " centroid In the case of bhe parabolic cubic , the " " centroid\ldquo ; being a parabola , the preceding ements require some modification : , the envelopes of the double chords and of the parabolas connected each with a diameter of the cubic in the manner above described , degenerate from quartics into parabolas ; and on each diameter there lies only the ( finite ) mean point of one other diameter , this being the mid-point of the segment between the mean point of the diameter itself and its point of contact with the " " centroid The above are fundamental properties of the diameters of cubics .
Some of them might have been stated more generally of the second polars of points lying in any right line ; but it has been thought proper in this notice to limit the statements to the diamet only ) viz. .
the second polars of points lying on the line at infinity .

