Isolating and Cultivating Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. 517 Fig. 13 I'epresents an aggregation rosette or cluster of flagellates of different sizes and ages .
Figs. 14 , 15 , 16 show parasites whose bodies are thrown into characteristic undulations .
Note the chromatoid granules shown in fig. 15 .
Figs. 17 , 18 represent stout flagellates from the anterior part of the intestine .
The latter figure shows the stoutest parasite seen during the research .
The parasite contained chromatoid granules .
Figs. 19\#151 ; 21 represent dividing forms .
Figs. 22\#151 ; 25 show stages of the parasite leading to post-flagellates and cysts ( figs. 26\#151 ; 29 ) , as seen in the hinder part of the intestine , including the rectum and the faeces .
In figs. 22\#151 ; 25 note the gradual shortening and absorption of the flagellum and the contraction and rounding of the body .
In fig. 25 only the rhizoplastic part of the flagellum remains .
Chromatoid granules occur in these parasites .
Figs. 27\#151 ; 29 represent truly encysted forms , as found at the extreme posterior end of the gut or voided in the faeces with semi-solid , black blood remains .
In figs. 27 , 28 the cyst-wall is thin and varnish-like , and closely apposed to the parasite .
It stains pink after Giemsa .
Fig. 29 represents a gelatinous , thick-walled cyst with striations .
Such cysts were very rare .
A Method for Isolating and Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis chronicae pseudo tuberculosae bo vis , , and Some Experiments on the Preparation of a Diagnostic Vaccine for Pseudo-tuberculous Enteritis of Bovines .
By F. W. Twort , M.R.C.S. , L.R.C.P. Loud .
, and G. L. Y. Ingram , M.RC .
V.S. ( Communicated by Leonard Hill , M.B. , F.R.S. Received November 7 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read February 1 , 1912 .
) ( From the Laboratories of the Brown Institution , University of London .
) The disease of cattle described under the name of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , or Johne 's disease , is a serious affection which causes considerable losses to farmers and stockowners throughout the British Isles and Europe .
Clinically , it is characterised by a slow progressive emaciation and chronic diarrhoea , which causes the milk-yield in cows to fall off , and often ends in death .
B. Bang states that some cases show no diarrhoea , though the affected animals die ; he also states that the annual losses from this disease on some of the large farms in the Islands of Denmark may amount to 5 to 8 per cent , of the total head of cattle .
The disease may affect bovines of all ages ( usually from 3 to 6 years , Meissner ( 33 ) ) , but as the period of incubation has been shown to be very long , it is not usually recognised VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. 2 Q 518 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , in animals which are less than a year old .
It often appears in pregnant cows , and becomes aggravated after calving .
On 'post-mortem examination the lesions are found to be confined to the bowels and the surrounding lymphatic glands .
The mucous membrane of the small intestine is seen to be very much thickened\#151 ; in some cases it may be three or four times the normal .
It is thrown into characteristic folds or corrugations , and may show areas of congestion .
The large intestine and caecum often present the same lesions .
The affected glands are enlarged and oedematous , but show no caseation .
Scrapings taken from the thickened mucous membrane , and stained by Ziehl-Nielsen 's method , as a rule show enormous numbers of acid-fast bacilli , though in some cases they are less numerous , and in others may be very difficult to discover .
In sections of an affected intestine the bacilli are found to be most numerous near the surface , i.e. towards the lumen of the bowel , but they are also found in the villi and in the deeper layers .
The increase in thickness is seen to be due to the formation of new connective tissue .
" The tissue is filled with large epithelioid cells , surrounded by small round lymphatic cells , and in some cases with giant cells " ( B. Bang ) .
The presence of an acid-fast bacillus , not to be distinguished microscopically from the tubercle bacillus , in the thickened mucosa of the bowels of cattle suffering from chronic diarrhoea , was first shown in 1895 by Johne and Frothingham ( 1 ) , who considered the condition to be a form of tuberculosis , and with them Koch was in agreement .
In 1881 J. Hansen and P. H. Nielsen , of Holland , pointed out the thickening and corrugation of the mucous membranes of the intestines of certain cattle dying from chronic diarrhoea , whilst Hurtrel d'Arboval , in 1826 ( ' Diet , de Med. et de Chirurg .
Yet .
' ) , under the head of chronic enteritis in cattle , described conditions which might well have been due to the micro-organism now known as Johne 's bacillus .
Bouley and Beynal do not seem to have recognised it as a special form of enteritis ( ' Diet , de Chirurg .
, M4d .
, et d'Hygien Yet .
, ' 1860 ) .
The disease is prevalent in many countries .
Yan der Sluys(3 ) and Markus ( 5 ) have described its occurrence in Holland , Lienaux and van den Eeckhout(7 ) in Belgium , B. Bang ( 14 ) in Denmark , and Borgeaud(8 ) in Lausanne .
Johne described the first case in Dresden , and Bongert(12 ) , Meissner ( 33 ) , and others have reported many further cases in Germany .
Freger ( 13 ) , Matthis ( 15 ) , and Lechlainche ( 18 ) in France , and Horne ( 24 ) in Norway , have also recognised and conducted experimental work on this disease .
1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. In North America , the first case was described by Pearson in Pennsylvania , in 1908 , and since then it has been recognised by Beebe ( 25 ) , of Minnesota , and others .
In 1906 B. Bang ( 37 ) , of Copenhagen , demonstrated the disease , and showed microscopic preparations of the diseased gut and glands before the National Veterinary Association at Liverpool ; he suggested that many cases of chronic diarrhoea ascribed to various intestinal strongyles were really due to Johne 's bacillus , and predicted that the disease would be found in Great Britain , as he had in his own experience found it in tubercle-free cattle imported from Jersey .
In 1907 McFadyean ( 19 ) described cases in this country occurring among Shorthorn , Sussex , and Jersey cattle , and , later , observed one case in a deer .
In 1909 Stockman , whilst investigating a disease of sheep in Scotland , known locally as " Scrapy " or " Scrapie , " found acid-fast bacilli in lesions corresponding to those of Johne 's disease .
Previous to this , in 1907 , Lienaux attempted to inoculate the disease in sheep , but was apparently unsuccessful .
In 1909 , in the Eeport of the United States Bureau of Animal Industry , mention is made by Dr. J. Mohler of an attempt to cultivate the bacillus of Johne 's disease from specimens received from California , but it is clear from the details given that the specific bacillus was not grown .
Many attempts have been made to produce this disease experimentally in cattle and in the usual laboratory animals .
As far as can be ascertained , in no animal , except cattle , has inoculation proved successful .
Meissner and Trapp ( 34 ) state that they have only been able to produce the disease in calves .
This they have done , as also has B. Bang , by intravenous and intraperitoneal inoculation of large quantities of infected material , and also by feeding calves with considerable quantities ( 1 to 3 lbs. ) of the mucous membranes of the intestines of cattle dying from this disease .
Experiments of a similar nature on mice , guinea-pigs , rabbits , sheep , and goats have all proved negative .
In many instances the results have caused confusion , since the material used has been taken from animals also suffering from tuberculosis , and this strengthened the theory that the condition was a form of tuberculosis affecting the bowels and surrounding lymphatic glands , but showing no tendency to caseation .
B. Bang , by feeding a calf with 300 grm. of affected material , found that the animal showed signs of diarrhoea in eight months , and this evidence of the long period of incubation has been supported by other observers .
All writers on this disease state that the causative micro-organism cannot be cultivated outside the animal body .
Meissner ( 33 ) , however obtained on 2 q 2 520 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , a decoction of grass ( Phleurn pratense ) and glycerine agar a pure culture of an acid-fast bacillus which Koch and Rabinowitsch ( 17 ) declared to be identical with the bacillus of avian tubercle .
Mettam also , in a private communication , states that he has sub-cultured for 12 generations an acid-fast micro-organism obtained from a cow suffering from Johne 's disease , and that it agrees in every respect with the avian tubercle bacillus .
These must be regarded as cases of accidental contamination with the avian tubercle bacillus .
Most authors agree that animals suffering from this disease give no reaction with ordinary diagnostic tuberculin , but 0 .
Bang ( 38 ) has obtained in some cases a more or less decided reaction with avian tuberculin .
In this country Male ( 39 ) , of Reading , has since used avian tuberculin prepared by Stockman .
He tested 19 cattle , giving 5 c.c. doses of tuberculin , and in four cases obtained a reaction of 3*6 ' , 3 ' , 4 ' , and 2-8 ' F. respectively .
He does not state , however , whether the pre-inoculation temperature given is that of the morning or evening , and it must be remembered that both Meissner and Mettam have obtained avian tubercle bacilli from the intestine of cows infected with Johue 's bacillus .
In June , 1910 , we started some experiments with the object of cultivating Johne 's bacillus and of preparing a diagnostic vaccine from the culture obtained .
A preliminary note on the results of this work was included in a paper by one of us ( 41 ) on the cultivation of the lepra bacillus of man , published in 1910 .
We have to thank Mr. Brennan de Vine , of Birmingham , and Mr. D. Hamilton , of Hamilton , for the pathological specimens used in these experiments .
Portions of infected intestine and glands were obtained in as fresh a condition as possible , but owing to the time taken in transit , some of the specimens were found to be contaminated in the deeper tissues , and it was found necessary to kill off these contaminations with a solution of ericolin a method which was originally devised for isolating tubercle bacilli ( 42 ) .
The gut and glands were thoroughly washed in water , and the surface ot an infected area seared with a hot spatula ; microscopic films were made from the tissues beneath to prove the presence of the specific bacillus .
Small pieces of tissue were then removed with sterile scissors and rubbed over the culture medium to be tested , either directly , or indirectly aftei being incubated in a 1 per cent , watery solution of ericolin for one to two hours at 37 ' C. The first case received from Mr. de Vine , on June 15 , 1910 , showed the typical lesions of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , and contained a large number 1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. 521 of acid-fast bacilli .
The specimen was fresh , and cultures were made directly on to all the ordinary laboratory media .
Fresh extracts of various glands and organs ( including the intestine ) of normal bovines were also prepared , and sterilised by passing through a Doulton white filter .
The extracts thus sterilised were placed in sterile tubes plugged with cotton wool , and inoculated with the diseased material .
Small sterile portions of bovine organs were also obtained , placed in sterile tubes , and inoculated .
The above media were tested in various combinations , both with and without glycerin , cholesterin , various sugars , fresh blood , and other substances .
The cultures were made aerobically and anaerobically at 39 ' to 40 ' C. On none of these media were we able to obtain any definite growth of the specific bacillus .
Some experiments were also conducted to test the possibility of an ultra-microscopic virus working in symbiosis with Johne 's bacillus .
Extracts of bovine intestine infected with the disease were prepared and passed through a Doulton white filter .
The sterile filtrate so obtained was added to the various media , and the whole inoculated with portions of intestine containing living Johne 's bacilli .
These experiments all gave negative results .
From the experiments conducted on this case we came to the conclusion arrived at by most other workers , namely , that the specific bacillus would not grow on any artificial medium known to bacteriologists , and that if successful cultivation were to be achieved some new medium would have to be prepared .
We considered also that the failure of growth of the specific bacillus must be due , either to some substance in the medium acting as a poison , or to the absence of some material or foodstuff necessary for its vitality and growth .
On considering the question further , we were struck by the apparent close relationship existing between this micro-organism and the tubercle bacillus ; and since the bacillus of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis and the tubercle bacillus both grow in the same species of animal , we considered it highly improbable that there could be any substance in the ordinary laboratory media which would act as a poison to the one bacillus and not to the other .
This possibility was accordingly excluded , and we were forced to conclude that the failure to grow the bacillus must be due to the absence of some necessary foodstuff .
Considering again the apparent close relationship between the tubercle bacillus and the bacillus of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , and the fact that both these bacilli live in the bodies of bovines , we judged it probable that they would require the same chemical substances for building up their protoplasm , certain of which substances could be elaborated from artificial 522 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , media by the tubercle bacillus , but not by the bacillus of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis\#151 ; in other words , that the latter bacillus has lived a pathogenic existence from such remote ages , that it has lost the original power of its wild ancestor\#151 ; whatever bacillus that may have been\#151 ; and can no longer build up all its necessary foodstuffs outside the animal body .
It was thought probable that if these substances could be obtained ready formed and added to some good artificial medium ( Dorset 's egg medium ) , the bacillus would grow , and further , that these substances might be elaborated by allied micro-organisms , such as the tubercle bacillus , and even stored up as reserves in their envelopes .
On this reasoning , which led to the successful cultivation of the lepra bacillus of man ( 41 ) , we decided to prepare media containing these allied bacilli which had been killed by heat .
We had at the time in our possession about three hundred strains of tubercle bacilli , mostly isolated from human tuberculous material on Dorset 's egg medium .
A number of these cultures were taken , and after the necessary sub-cultures had been made , they were killed by steam .
The growth was then scraped off , taking care to avoid any admixture of the medium which might contain the waste products of the bacillary growth and be toxic to the bacillus of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis .
More recently we have found this precaution to be unnecessary .
The growth of tubercle bacilli thus obtained was ground in a mortar with glycerine and saline , steamed for half an hour , and added to the yolk and white of new laid eggs in the following proportions : Egg 75 parts , 0'8 sodium chloride in re-distilled water , 25 parts ; these were thoroughly mixed , and to the mixture were added tubercle bacilli 1 per cent , and glycerine 5 per cent. " This medium was placed in sterile test-tubes , these were plugged with cotton wool and heated in a hot water bath at 60 ' C. for one hour on three successive days , the tubes being incubated at 37 ' C. for 6 to 12 hours in the intervals between steaming .
Finally the tubes were inspissated in slopes at 85 ' to 90 ' C. A second case of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis was now obtained from Mr. de Vine .
Specimens of intestine and glands were received on July 28 , 1910 .
Both the intestine and glands showed the typical characters of the condition , and a large number of Jolines bacilli weie present in various parts of the tissues .
Unfortunately , owing to the hot weather prevailing at the time , the specimens on delivery had commenced to decompose , but , in spite of this , we prepared some cultures in the mannei previously described , both directly , and indirectly after treating with ericolin solution .
The cultures were made on several of the media tested with the first case , as well as on a number of tubes of the special tubercle 1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. 523 bacillus medium .
The tubes were capped with gutta-percha tissue and incubated at 39 ' to 40 ' C. After two days ' incubation all the direct cultures were badly contaminated , yet those inoculated with ericolinised material showed only a few contaminating colonies .
Sub-cultures were made from uncontaminated areas of most of the latter tubes on to fresh tubes of the same medium , but , owing to the small amount of the tubercle bacillus medium then prepared , only one of these tubes was sub-cultured \#151 ; this was one made from a gland .
Films from these sub-cultures were prepared at intervals of about four or five days , and examined microscopically .
After 19 days the sub-culture on the special medium showed quite definite evidence of multiplication , the bacilli had grown larger and thicker , they were well stained , and were present in large close masses .
Sub-cultures were made from this tube on fresh tubes of various media , including one tube of the special tubercle bacillus medium .
These were examined at intervals as before , and the sub-culture on the special medium showed microscopic evidence of growth in 10 days .
Both the first and second sub-cultures showed growth visible to the naked eye after four weeks , which gradually increased , and reached a maximum in about eight weeks .
These tubes were easily sub-cultured on to fresh tubes of the same medium , but on none of the ordinary laboratory media were we able to get any evidence of growth .
The third case of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis was obtained from Mr. Hamilton .
Specimens of intestine , but no glands , were received on September 23 , 1910 .
They showed the typical lesions of the disease , and a very large number of Johne 's bacilli were present in the tissues .
When delivered , the specimens had already commenced to decompose , but from them cultures were made as previously described , both directly , and indirectly after treatment with ericolin solution , on various media , including some tubes of the tubercle bacillus medium .
The tubes were capped with gutta-percha tissue and placed in an incubator at 39 ' to 40 ' C. The results were the same as in Case No. 2 ; all the direct cultures were badly contaminated , and those tubes which had been inoculated with material previously treated with ericolin solution grew only a few contaminating colonies .
Of the latter , the cultures on the tubes of special medium were sub-cultured from uncontaminated areas on to a number of fresh tubes of various media , including the special medium .
The sub-cultures on the ordinary media remained sterile , but those on the tubercle bacillus medium grew Johne 's bacillus in pure growth , and were , without difficulty , repeatedly sub-cultured on to fresh tubes of the special medium .
Naked eye evidence of growth was present in the first sub-cultures after about six weeks .
524 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , The fourth case was obtained from Mr. de Vine , a specimen of intestine being received at the Institution on January 26 , 1911 .
It showed the typical lesions of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , and a large number of the specific bacilli were present in the lesions .
Since the specimen was quite fresh , cultures were made as previously described from the ileum , csecum , and ileo-csecal valve directly on to nine tubes of the special tubercle bacillus medium ; these were capped and placed at 39 ' to 40 ' C. After three weeks ' incubation two tubes were found to be contaminated , whilst the remainder were covered with extremely minute colonies of Johne 's bacillus without any contaminations ; the cultures grew well , and were sub-cultured without any difficulty on to the special medium .
Sub-cultures taken on to Dorset 's egg medium , glycerine agar , and various other media , gave no growth .
Case 5 was obtained from Mr. Hamilton , and was received at the Institution on February 8 , 1911 .
The specimen , consisting of ileum and ileo-csecal valve , showed the typical lesions of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , and a considerable number of acid-fast bacilli were present in the lesions .
Cultures were made from several parts of the specimen directly on to 12 tubes of Dorset 's egg medium .
They were taken in the manner already described , but as the specimen was fresh on arrival , previous treatment with ericolin solution was unnecessary .
The tubes were capped with guttapercha tissue , and placed in the incubator at 39 ' to 40 ' C. On the following day they were examined and found to be free from contaminating colonies , so the tiny pieces of tissue were removed from three of the tubes and placed on to three tubes of the special tubercle bacillus medium .
These were capped and placed with the other tubes in the incubator at 39 ' to 40 ' C. Six weeks later the three tubes of special medium showed a few tiny colonies of Johne 's bacillus .
Compared with the previous cases the rapidity of growth was very slow and was slight in amount , due , as was proved later , to the unsuitability of the particular strain of tubercle bacillus incorporated in the medium .
Sub-cultures from these tubes on to tubes of a fresh batch of tubercle bacillus medium grew well .
All the original cultures on Dorset 's egg medium remained sterile , as also did sub-cultures from the special medium on to Dorset 's egg medium .
Four strains of Johne 's bacillus having been isolated on media containing dead tubercle bacilli , we next proceeded to test them on slightly modified media .
We found that growth was not nearly so good in the absence of glycerine , but the exact percentage most suitable for the growth of Johne s bacillus has not yet been determined , although we have reason to believe that about 4 per cent , by volume gives the best results .
A higher per cent. 1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. 525 sodium chloride solution can be used in preparing the medium , without any detrimental effect .
We found also that it was better to dry the growth of the tubercle bacillus after killing it and before making it up into medium , a fact which may be due to the formation of cracks or breaks in the continuity of the covering , enabling the essential substance to diffuse more easily into the medium .
Experiments showed that f to 1 per cent , of the dried tubercle bacillus was the most suitable quantity to add .
To obtain the best results , the dried bacilli should be ground up with the glycerine which has been mixed with an equal quantity of 08 per cent , saline , and the remainder of the saline added later .
The emulsion so obtained should then be steamed for 15 minutes , and , when cool , added to the egg .
The probable explanation for this is that the glycerine acts as a solvent for the essential substance , and some experiments to be described later tend to confirm this suggestion .
We also tried some media similar to the above , in which the normal alkalinity of the egg was wholly or partially neutralised by hydrochloric acid ; these were found to be unsuitable .
This proves the necessity of maintaining a distinctly alkaline reaction .
In another series of experiments the egg was replaced by various other substances , such as broth or agar .
These , as a rule , did not give such good results , although ordinary glycerine peptone bouillon , made distinctly alkaline , and containing \ to 1 per cent , of dried tubercle bacilli , gave a fairly satisfactory growth .
This , with other experiments to be described later , proved that Johne 's bacillus can grow quite wTell in the absence of albumen .
We next proceeded to test our strains of Johne 's bacilli on media in which the dead tubercle bacillus was replaced by various other micro-organisms .
We soon found that some strains of human tubercle bacilli were more suitable than others ; and , further , that if the human tubercle bacillus was replaced by the bovine type , no growth of Johne 's bacillus took place , and that this was so even when sub-cultured from strains which had been growing outside the animal body for a year .
Several strains of tubercle bacilli isolated from cats were also tested , but gave negative results .
The question then arose as to whether these results were due to the absence of some substance in the bovine tubercle bacillus , or to the presence of some toxic substance not found in the human type .
This was tested by preparing four batches of medium , one containing \ per cent , of dried human tubercle bacilli , another | per cent , of dried bovine bacilli , a third per cent , of both the human and bovine types , and a fourth \#163 ; per cent , of both types .
Several tubes of each were inoculated with pure cultures of 526 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , Johne 's bacillus and incubated at 39 ' to 40 ' C. , with the following results:_ Growth took place on the medium containing the human type and on the two containing both types , but no growth took place on that containing only the bovine type .
This experiment proves fairly conclusively that the unsuitability of the bovine type of bacillus is not due to the presence of any toxic body in its substance , otherwise no growth would have taken place on the media containing the mixture of the two bacilli .
We may note , however , that we have not tested many strains of the bovine bacillus , and it is possible that Johne 's bacillus will grow on some bovine strains , or on those strains which have been described as occupying an intermediate position between the typical human and typical bovine bacilli ; but we have no evidence that this is so .
Whatever this difference between the two types of bacilli may be due to , it does not in our opinion necessarily represent an important biological difference ; it is probably physiological in nature , and may be due to the presence or absence of some reserve food material existing or otherwise outside the strictly vital portion of the bacillus , or it may be due to some fat , wax , or other covering material preventing this substance from being utilised by Johne 's bacillus .
In the light of some recent experiments the latter possibility seems improbable , as we have been unable to extract any substance suitable for the growth of Johne 's bacillus .
These experiments are being continued .
While in this paper we cannot enter into the controversy concerning the relationship between the human and bovine types of tubercle bacilli , yet , incidentally , we venture to remark that , in spite of all that has been written in this country , we are not yet convinced that the human and bovine types are only slightly different varieties of one and the same micro-organism .
In this connection the difference between the two bacilli described above may be worthy of note and further investigation .
The failure to obtain any growth of Johne 's bacillus on media containing tubercle bacilli isolated from bovines and cats led us to seek for other acid-fast bacilli which might act as substitutes for the tubercle bacillus of man , and two bacilli at once suggested themselves .
As wTe have already remarked , 0 .
Bang has shown that avian tuberculin may cause some reaction withi pseudo-tuberculous enteritis of bovines , and the possibility of the avian tubercle bacillus and Johne 's bacillus being closely allied is at once obvious .
Accordingly we prepared several batches of medium containing the avian tubercle bacillus in place of the human type .
On this medium our strains of Johne 's bacillus usually grew , but only slightly , and the medium proved to be quite unsuitable for practical purposes .
1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. 527 The other micro-organism which suggested itself was the timothy-grass bacillus .
From very remote times this bacillus must have been repeatedly ingested by bovines in their food , and it seems quite possible that it may be the wild ancestor and originator of Johne 's bacillus which now infests the intestine , causing pseudo-tuberculous enteritis .
Batches of medium containing ^ per cent , of this bacillus in place of the human tubercle bacillus were prepared , placed into tubes , and sterilised in the manner previously described .
A number of these tubes were inoculated with pure cultures of Johne 's bacillus and incubated at 39 ' to 40 ' C. as before .
These cultures grew quickly and well , the growth being better than on any of the media containing the human tubercle bacillus .
A slight growth was visible along the needle track after incubation for one week , and after six weeks the growth closely resembled that of a bovine tubercle bacillus recently isolated from the animal body .
A full description of the cultural characters of the bacillus will be given later .
The smegma bacillus of Moeller , the nasenschleim bacillus of Karlinski , and the fish tubercle bacillus of Dubard were then tested in place of the human tubercle bacillus ; each type was added to the medium in quantities of -| to 1 per cent , of the dried powdered growth .
The first two media gave satisfactory results , but were not quite so good as media containing the timothy-grass bacillus .
The fish tubercle bacillus medium gave negative results , but so far only one batch of this has been tested .
The butter bacillus of Rabinowitsch was also found to be unsuitable .
Certain blastomyces and non-acid-fast bacilli which have been recently investigated also gave negative results.* In the above experiments it must be noted that we were testing the various media with vigorous growing strains of Johne 's bacillus , some strains of which had been growing outside the animal body for nearly a year .
The question now arose as to whether we should have obtained the same good results with such micro-organisms as the timothy-grass bacillus , had we started by inoculating the media directly with bovine tissue infected with Johne 's bacillus , instead of with cultures which had been growing outside the animal body for a considerable period .
To test this point Mr. de Vine kindly sent us a further specimen of diseased gut , and this , our sixth case , was received at the Institution on July 28 , 1911 .
The specimen was delivered in a fresh condition , and showed the appearance of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , most marked near * Subsequent experiments have shown that the following acid-fast bacilli can also be used in the medium , and give good results :\#151 ; Moeller ; B. Marpmann ; B. aus Butter , Grassberger .
No positive results have yet been obtained with the Tobler group of acid-fast bacilli ( January 29 , 1912 ) .
528 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , the ileo-csecal valve ; the disease was in an early stage , and the thickening of the intestine was quite moderate .
Films were made from the ileum and the ileo-csecal valve , but only a very few Johne 's bacilli could be found , even after searching for some considerable time .
Small pieces of tissue were removed aseptically in the manner previously described and inoculated on to six tubes of Dorset 's egg medium , and on to two tubes of special medium containing i per cent , of dried timothy-grass bacillus .
All were capped with guttapercha tissue and incubated at 39 ' to 40 ' C. as with the previous cases .
After 48 hours one of the tubes of special medium was found to be contaminated and was discarded , After five weeks ' incubation films were made from the tubes and examined microscopically .
Those taken from the cultures on Dorset 's egg medium showed no acid-fast bacilli , but that taken from the remaining tube of special medium , made with dead timothy-grass bacilli , showed some small clumps of acid-fast bacilli presenting the characters of Johne 's bacillus .
Accordingly sub-cultures were made from this tube on to fresh tubes of the same medium and on to fresh tubes of Dorset 's egg medium .
All the tubes were capped and placed in the incubator at 39 ' to 40 ' C. Films were now made at intervals of about a week from the various tubes , and without describing all in detail it will be sufficient to note that the bacillus found on the original tube of special medium continued to grow on this and on all the sub-cultures made on to the timothy-grass bacillus medium , and on media containing the human tubercle bacillus , but that the sub-cultures on Dorset 's egg medium remained sterile .
The bacillus isolated resembled in every way the bacilli isolated from the four previous cases , and the cultural characters were also the same .
From the above experiments it is clear that Jbhne 's bacillus will grow on media containing the dead timothy-grass bacillus , not only after it has been cultivated in the laboratory for a considerable period , but also when taken direct from the diseased gut of cattle .
Having determined the various acid-fast bacilli most suitable for the growth of Johne 's bacillus , an attempt was made to extract the essential substance from certain of these bacilli .
The timothy-grass bacillus was chosen , chiefly because it gave the best results in the above experiments , also because it is harmless to man and grows quickly on simple media , thus enabling a large quantity of growth to be obtained in a short time .
Dr. W. Bulloch kindly gave us a quantity of this bacillus , besides various dead and dried tubercle bacilli , which latter had been given to him by Prof. Bang about eight years previously .
Many of these had already been extracted by Bulloch and MacLeod ( 40 ) when investigating the acid-fast properties of the tubercle bacillus .
The different bacillary powders were 1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. made up into media , the tubercle bacillus of our original medium being replaced by one or another in quantities of | per cent. Tubes of each were inoculated with a fresh culture of Johne 's bacillus , and the results may be summarised as follows :\#151 ; Dried timothy-grass bacilli gave very good results .
" human tubercle bacilli " good results , but inferior to the timothy grass bacillus .
" bovine " " negative results .
" swine " tubercle of uncertain source , freed from wax and fat , gave negative results .
" " " " freed |pm wax , fat , and proteid , gave negative results .
The dried timothy grass bacillus and the dried human tubercle bacillus were found to be equally good when previously autoclaved in normal saline for 30 minutes at 120 ' C. The above results prove conclusively that the essential substance contained in these bacilli is comparatively stable , remaining undiminished in timothy grass and human tubercle bacilli which had been dried and killed eight years previously , and also after they had been autoclaved .
Some further experiments were now made : 1 grm. of dried timothy grass bacilli was taken and extracted with 20 c.c. of 0*8-per-cent .
sodium chloride and 4 c.c. of glycerine .
The mixture was autoclaved for half an hour at 120 ' C. and passed through filter paper .
The filtrate was then added to the white and yolk of hens ' eggs in the proportion of one part of filtrate to three parts of egg .
Another batch of medium was prepared by taking the residue of the timothy-grass bacillus , washing it repeatedly with normal saline , filtering it and drying the residue .
This residue was made up into medium , the tubercle bacillus of the original tubercle egg medium being replaced by ^ per cent , of the residue of the timothy-grass bacillus .
Further batches of medium were prepared by extracting the dried timothy-grass bacillus with distilled water , the necessary quantities of sodium chloride and glycerine being added after extraction and filtration .
The residue was treated as before .
We found that Johne 's bacillus grew on the medium containing the glycerine saline extract , and on that containing the residue .
It also grew on the residue after extraction with distilled water , but it failed to grow on the medium containing the distilled water extract .
From these results we judge that the essential substance is only very slightly , if at all , extracted 530 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , by distilled water , but that it is soluble in a glycerine saline solution , although from the above it is clear that some of the essential substance remained in the residue .
A further series of experiments was made , using ethyl alcohol as our solvent .
Two grammes of dry timothy grass bacillus were powdered , placed in a Soxhlet apparatus with 100 c.e. of absolute alcohol , and extracted for three hours .
The residue was dried in an incubator , and the alcohol evaporated to dryness , leaving a dark yellowish sticky mass .
The extract and residue were then weighed separately , and it was found that the original weight of the bacilli was reduced from 2 grm. to about 1-25 grm. , the difference being represented by the extract .
Media were prepared with the extract and residue thus obtained , the tubercle bacillus of our original medium beinj^ replaced by 1 per cent , of the extract or residue .
Other batches of these media were thus prepared , some of which contained only I or per cent , of the extract or residue .
Tubes from each batch were inoculated from young growths of Johne 's bacillus , and incubated at 39 ' to 40 ' C. Good growth was obtained on all the media containing the extracts , but , as a rule , there was none on the residues .
These experiments prove that the substance in the timothy-grass bacillus essential for the growth of Johne 's bacillus is extracted by hot ethyl alcohol .
As is well known , if this hot alcoholic extract is allowed to cool , a white flocculent precipitate forriis , and can be removed by filtration .
The clear coloured filtrate , when evaporated to dryness , leaves a thick oily residue which becomes firmer on cooling .
Part of this residue is soluble in hot and cold chloroform , leaving an insoluble liquid portion which floats on the surface of the chloroform , but is soluble in water .
Media prepared with any one of these different parts of the alcoholic extract give positive results with Johne 's bacillus , the best being that which is insoluble in chloroform .
So far these extracts have not been purified , , and it is possible that the essential substance contained in each portion is identical .
In considering pseudo-tuberculous enteritis from an hygienic standpoint some important factors have to be considered .
The disease is widely distributed , and is easily conveyed from one animal to another , probably by means of contaminated food , such as grass .
In the early stages the symptoms are slight and indefinite , and an early diagnosis is impossible .
The affected animals lose considerable weight , and with milch cows the quantity of milk given is greatly diminished .
In view of these facts it is clear that a reliable diagnostic vaccine would be of great economic value , 1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. 531 and if generally used in the infected areas of the countries in which the disease is prevalent , and if followed by the slaughter of the diseased animals , would soon tend to diminish if not to completely eradicate this condition .
It must also be remembered that when animals suffering from this disease are slaughtered , the flesh is not condemned as food unless the carcase shows marked emaciation , so that an early diagnosis would not only help to prevent dissemination of the disease , but would allow of a better price being obtained for the animal .
From this it follows that the use of such a vaccine would be of direct monetary value to farmers and stockowners , and if State legislation were adopted , no Government compensation would be necessary .
From the strains of Johne 's bacillus which had been grown , we now attempted to prepare a vaccine which would be both efficient and specific as a diagnostic agent for the disease under discussion .
In the first experiments we used an alkaline peptone bouillon , containing 4 per cent , of glycerine and 1 per cent , of dried human tubercle bacilli .
This was placed in Duclaux flasks and sterilised by steaming .
These flasks were inoculated with pure cultures of Johne 's bacillus , and the main opening of each was capped with gutta-percha tissue .
The flasks were incubated at 39 ' to 40 ' C. After the lapse of a month small yellowish-white grains of growth became visible .
These grew just above the sediment at the bottom of the flasks , and gradually increased in size and number .
No film formation was observed .
After two months the flasks were steamed , their contents passed through a Doulton white filter , and the filtrate so obtained placed into small sterile flasks in quantities of 2-| and 5 c.c. The vaccine was not evaporated to obtain a more concentrated solution , as we considered this unnecessary for experimental work .
A second batch of vaccine was prepared in a manner exactly similar to the above , except that the dried human tubercle bacillus was replaced by the dried timothy-grass bacillus .
A third batch was prepared by growing Johne 's bacillus in a broth medium containing a glycerine saline extract of the timothy-grass bacillus , so as to represent 1 per cent , of dried bacilli and 4 per cent , of glycerine .
The medium used for preparing the last vaccine was filtered and autoclaved before inoculating , and in it the specific bacillus grew fairly well as tiny masses which settled down to the bottom of the flasks .
Incidentally , this proved that Johne 's bacillus will grow in an albumen-free medium .
A fourth batch was prepared from cultures of Johne 's bacillus on the special timothy-grass bacillus egg medium , the growth being scraped off and an emulsion made With vaccine No. 3 described above .
532 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , A fifth batch of vaccine was made in a manner similar to vaccine No. 4 except that the three cultures of Johne 's bacillus were suspended in 6 c.c. of 0'8-per-cent .
sodium chloride in place of vaccine No. 3 .
As controls to the above vaccines we used diagnostic tuberculin prepared by the Pasteur Institute , diagnostic avian tuberculin prepared at the Eoyal Veterinary College , and a special timothy-grass bacillus vaccine prepared by ourselves .
This last was made in the same manner as ordinary diagnostic tuberculin .
The bacillus was grown for about three weeks in a glycerine broth medium , which was then steamed and filtered through a Doulton white porcelain filter .
The sterile filtrate was placed in small sterile flasks without previous concentration .
The results of the tests conducted with the above vaccines will be described under the head of experiments on bo vines .
At the time that test-tube experiments were being carried out we performed a number of inoculation experiments on animals .
In the first series we tested small laboratory animals such as mice , rats , guinea-pigs , rabbits , hens , and pigeons .
Several of each were inoculated either subcutaneously or intraperitoneally , and some , such as rabbits and pigeons , intravenously , while others were fed with food soaked in an emulsion of the bacilli .
Vigorous growing cultures of Johne 's bacillus were made up into thick emulsions with sterile normal saline ; the mice and rats were usually iuoculated with ^ c.c. , and the guinea-pigs , rabbits , hens , and pigeons with i to 1 c.c. of the emulsion .
With the mice , rats , guinea-pigs , hens , and pigeons the results were entirely negative .
No lesions were found in the animals post mortem , even when kept for nine months before killing .
One mouse inoculated into the peritoneal cavity and killed after 14 days showed a few acid-fast bacilli in one of the mesenteric glands , but they could not be recovered in cultures , and it is probable that they were dead and had been taken up by the glands .
Sections of the mesenteric glands showed no histological lesions .
The only rabbit which showed any evidence of a lesion , probably produced as a result of the inoculation ( into the peritoneal cavity with 1 c.c. of a thick emulsion of Johne 's bacillus ) , was killed after four months .
On post-mortem examination a small whitish thickening was found in the wall of the caecum , and films made from this area showed a few degenerated acid-fast bacilli .
Sections showed destruction and degeneration of the tissues comprising the wall of the gut , with granular structureless material containing a few degenerated acid-fast bacilli in the centre of the area .
Cultures made from this area on to various media , including the special 1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. 533 medium containing the human tubercle bacillus , all remained sterile .
It is probable that the lesion observed was caused by the inoculation of a large quantity of Johne 's bacillus into the actual substance of the gut , the needle of the syringe piercing this when the inoculation was made , and so producing an immediate necrosis of the surrounding tissues before the bacilli were killed by the animal fluids and tissues , or during the process .
We consider the above experiment to be negative .
Six bovines were also inoculated with pure cultures of Johne 's bacillus , and it is to be regretted that circumstances did not allow us to perform a larger number of inoculations .
We also regret that lack of space prohibits us from describing each in detail .
The bare results are given in the accompanying table ( p. 534 ) .
Of the experiments , Nos. 3 and 6 need little comment .
No. 3 was killed after a lapse of only six weeks , and No. 6 died after 17 days .
In both cases the time was too short for the disease to develop , and in neither of the cases were any of the vaccines tested .
Accordingly no conclusions can be drawn from either experiment .
Of the four remaining bovine experiments , Nos. 1 and 5 developed pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , but also showed some tubercular lesions .
Nos. 2 and 4 showed no evidence of Johne 's disease on post-mortem examination , although No. 2 showed some tubercular lesions .
In the two bovines which developed Johne 's disease the lesions , although definite , were not advanced , and only very few bacilli were found , even in the first bovine , which had been fed 11 months previously .
These two experiments , taken together with the two negative results , indicate the slow progress of the disease , and , compared with tubercle , the low pathogenicity of Johne 's bacillus .
But it must be remembered that the experimental animals were fed on hay , bran , oats , and mangolds , as we had no opportunity of turning them out to grass , a procedure which is known to greatly accelerate the progress of the disease .
It must also be remembered that the bacilli may have become less virulent by growing on artificial media , but we believe the diet to be the more important factor in determining the susceptibility to the disease and its rapidity of progress after contraction .
We succeeded in recovering Johne 's bacillus from the diseased intestine of bovine No. 5 , and the cultures obtained were identical in every respect with the culture inoculated .
The coincident tuberculosis in the two positive cases probably played some part in lessening the resistance to Johne 's bacillus .
The various vaccines which were tested on the experimental animals were also tested on three uninoculated young calves , and on a pedigree bull proved VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. 2 R Bov .
No. Date inoculated .
How given .
27/ 6/ 11 .
27/ 7/ 11 .
28/ 8/ 11 .
6/ 9/ 11 .
12/ 10/ 11 .
18/ 10/ 11 .
Killed .
P.M. re Tubercle .
P.M. re Johne .
1 19/ 11/ 10 Mouth Yacc .
1 .
Tuberculin .
Yacc .
B. Av .
Yacc .
5 .
23/ L0/ 11 + + 5 c.c. 3J c.c. Phleum .
tuberculin .
3 c.c. 8 c.c. 8 c.c. + + \#151 ; .
\#151 ; 2 10/ 11/ 10 Intra-ven .
Yacc .
1 .
Tuberculin .
Yacc .
B. Av .
Yacc .
5 .
24/ 10/ 11 + \#151 ; 2\ c.c. 2 c.c. Phleum .
tuberculin .
2\ c.c. - 5 c.c. 5 c.c. + + \#151 ; \#151 ; 4 21/ 2/ 11 Intra-perit .
Yacc .
1 .
Tuberculin .
Vacc .
B. Av .
Yacc .
4 .
16/ 10/ 11 \#151 ; 2i c.c. 2 c.c. Phleum .
tuberculin .
8 c.c. 5 c.c. 5 c.c. ?
+ ?
- \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; 5 21/ 2/ 11 Intra-ven .
Yacc .
1 .
12/ 7/ 11 + + 2\ c.c. + Control calf , uninoculated , No. 1 Yacc .
1 .
Tuberculin .
Yacc .
B. Av .
\gt ; 2\ c.c. 2 c.c. Phleum .
tuberculin .
_ + 5 c.c. 5 c.c. No. 2 Tuberculin .
Yacc .
B. Av .
2 c.c. Phleum .
tuberculin .
5 c.c. 5 c.c. No. 3 Tuberculin .
Vacc .
B. Av .
Yacc .
4 .
2 c.c. Phleum .
tuberculin .
5 c.c. 5 c.c. 5 c.c. Bull , Jdime 's disease , naturally 1/ 9/ 11 l/ ii/ ii .
Vacc .
4 .
contracted Vacc .
1 .
Av .
10 c.c. 10 c.c. tuberculin .
i .
8 c.c. - ** .
534 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. to be free from tuberculosis but with well developed pseudo-tuberculous \#166 ; enteritis .
The bull was kindly presented to us by a breeder interested in this disease , and showed marked clinical symptoms , besides numerous clumps of acid-fast bacilli in the faeces .
The vaccine inoculations and results are set forth in the accompanying table , a + sign indicating a positive reaction and a \#151 ; sign a negative one .
On referring to the table it will be noticed that vaccine No. 1 gave a positive result with bovines Nos. 1 , 2 , 4 , and 5 , but not with the control bull .
It is also evident from the tuberculin tests and from post-mortem examination that animals 1 , 2 , and 5 had contracted tuberculosis .
In considering these results it must be remembered that vaccine No. 1 was prepared by growing the specific bacillus on a medium containing the tubercle bacillus , and it might be expected that tubercular animals would react to the vaccine on account of the substances dissolved from the tubercle bacilli in the medium , in which case the positive results obtained do not prove the presence of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis .
That the rises of temperature with vaccine No. 1 were actually caused by the presence of these substances is finally proved by the absence of any reaction in the control bull , and also by the negative results obtained with vaccines Nos. 4 and 5 , which contained no tubercle bacilli .
From the results obtained with vaccine No. 1 it is quite clear that if a specific vaccine for pseudo-tuberculous enteritis is to be obtained , the tubercle bacillus must not be incorporated in the medium .
It will be seen from the table that a timothy-grass bacillus vaccine causes no rise of temperature in normal animals , or in animals suffering from tuberculosis .or pseudo-tuberculous enteritis .
This bacillus should therefore be suitable for incorporating in the medium .
It will be remembered that vaccines 4 and 5 were prepared by growing Johne 's bacillus in media containing the timothy-grass bacillus ; but , as will be seen from the table , these vaccines caused no reaction in any of the experimental or control animals , which further proves the harmlessness .of the timothy-grass bacillus .
It may seem surprising that no reaction was obtained with these vaccines in the animals affected with Johne 's disease , but , in point of fact , the negative results might have been expected , as the greater part of the bacillary emulsion used was obtained from growths on solid media .
It must also be remembered that infected animals rarely , if ever , show a temperature during the course of the disease , and it is probable that a more concentrated vaccine will be required for Johne 's disease than for tuberculosis .
536 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , We are now conducting experiments with this object .
Up till recently we have been unable to obtain any growth of Johne 's bacillus on the surface of fluid media , and this has been the chief difficulty in preparing an efficient vaccine , but we have now succeeded in inducing it to grow in film formation on glycerine broth containing the timothy-grass bacillus .
We consider this a great advance , as the bacillus should now grow more vigorously , as is usually the case with other acid-fast bacilli .
The specific bacillus of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , commonly known as Johne 's bacillus , is , as already stated , allied to the various tubercle bacilli , and therefore belongs to the same general group .
If we accept the classification of micro-organisms adopted by Lehmann and Neuman , it would be more correct to describe it as a mycobacterium , and the scientific name of the micro-organism would then be Mycobacterium enteritidis chronicce pseudotuberculosce bovis Johne , the name by which we suggest it should be known .
At the same time , throughout this paper we have thought it better to retain the common name of Johne 's bacillus .
We were unable to detect any difference in the five strains isolated , and the culture recovered from the experimental bovine No. 4 also agreed in every detail with the other bacilli .
In the diseased lesions the bacilli often appear in extremely large numbers .
They are present as slender rods , sometimes slightly bent , and are usually between 1 and 2 microns in length .
They often show a beaded appearance , but this is not so marked as with the tubercle bacillus .
When first cultivated from the animal body on the special media described in this paper , the bacilli grow longer and thicker , and lie side by side in a manner very similar to the tubercle bacillus .
If the medium is partially dried they may grow to a length of 5 microns or more , and show definite dichotomous branching , with club formation and very distinct beading .
When sub-cultured on to moist solid medium , the bacilli soon regain their slender and short form , and in vigorous growing cultures they may become very short and show but little beading .
The bacilli at this stage often lie side by side , but loosely and not in the typical manner of the early cultures .
Spore formation was not observed in any of our growths .
In none of the strains have we been able to detect any evidence of motility .
Like the tubercle bacillus , Johne 's bacillus , if obtained from diseased tissues or from a pure culture , stains imperfectly and with difficulty with aqueous solutions of the anilin dyes , but quite well with Gram 's method , and better still with Ziehl-Nielsen 's .
It is quite acid-fast , and retains the stain when treated with 25-per-cent , sulphuric acid or 1-per-cent , hydrochloric acid in spiiit .
1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. No growth was observed in the absence of oxygen or with considerable excess of oxygen .
If sub-cultures which have been kept anaerobically for three months at 39 ' C. are placed under aerobic conditions , the cultures grow , showing that although the bacillus does not grow anaerobically it is not killed by the absence of oxygen .
Growth occurs between 28 ' C. and 43 ' C. , or perhaps a little beyond these limits , the optimum being about 39 ' C. , but it is always slow .
The reaction of the medium should be distinctly alkaline ; the degree of alkalinity possessed by new laid eggs is very suitable , and if this is in any way lessened in the medium there is a marked diminution in the rapidity and amount of the growth .
As has been stated , no growth occurs on any of the artificial media in general bacteriological use , such as peptone bouillon , agar , gelatine , serum , potato , or egg , even when such substances as glycerine , sugars , amino-acids , fresh blood , etc. , are added .
It is absolutely essential that certain previously detailed bacteria or extracts from them be added to one or other of the media , before any growth of Johne 's bacillus takes place , and this is equally true for strains of Johne 's bacillus which have been freshly isolated from the animal body and for strains which have been cultivated on artificial media for 15 months or more .
Of the bacilli tested , undoubtedly the most suitable for adding to the medium is the timothy-grass bacillus ; certain strains of human tubercle bacilli are also very good .
On the egg timothy-grass bacillus medium previously described , Johne 's bacillus , when taken from the animal body , will grow as tiny discrete colonies which usually become visible in three to five weeks .
At first the colonies are round , smooth , and dull stone white , they are slightly heaped up , and as growth increases this becomes more marked , while the colour turns to a dull light yellow .
Later , the colonies may coalesce and the growth show some wrinkling , while the colour may change to a light yellowish brown .
The degree of pigmentation seems to be considerably influenced by the amount of pigment in the timothy grass bacillus incorporated in the medium , and possibly also , though to a less extent , by the colour of the egg itself .
If the first culture taken from the diseased tissue is sub-cultured on to a fresh tube of medium , visible growth occurs on this in a few days , and may reach its maximum in about two months instead of three .
The growth now appears as a heaped-up continuous line along the needle track , with only an occasional discrete colony at the margins .
Wrinkling of the surface may also be more marked , especially if the culture is growing very well on a tube which is a little dry .
When the timothy-grass bacillus in the medium is 538 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , replaced by any of the other suitable bacilli or bacillary extracts , the growth of Johne 's bacillus does not materially differ from the description given , except in rapidity and amount , and also in the degree of pigmentation .
When inoculated into fluid media containing a suitable bacillus or bacillary extract , such as ordinary glycerine peptone bouillon , made alkaline , and containing \ per cent , of alcoholic extract of the timothy-grass bacillus , Johne 's bacillus grows as tiny whitish grains which settle to the bottom of the tube or flask .
These gradually increase in size and number , ultimately reaching the dimensions of a millet seed .
There is no general turbidity of the medium ; and with bacilli freshly isolated from the animal body , no film formation .
With one of our strains we have recently obtained some growth on the surface of the fluid media , and we expect , in course of time , to obtain a similar growth with the other strains .
Vaccines analogous to Koch 's new tuberculin and Wright 's vaccines can also be prepared , but so far we have not had an opportunity of testing the curative effect of these , and , even if successful , the cost of administering such vaccines would prevent their general use .
So far , we have been unable to prepare a diagnostic vaccine of sufficient strength to give a positive result with pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , but we anticipate that it will be possible to prepare such a vaccine with the bacillus growing more vigorously on the surface of fluid media .
Cultures are not easily killed by diffuse daylight , as we have had them standing before a window on the bench for some weeks without any apparent harm .
Johne 's bacillus would also appear to be fairly resistant to the action of disinfectants , since two of our strains were isolated from material which had been subjected to the action of a 1-per-cent , watery solution of ericolin at 37 ' C. for two hours .
In this respect it is no less resistant than the tubercle and lepra bacilli .
* Conclusions .
From the experiments detailed in this paper it is possible to deduce certain conclusions , the most important of which are the following :\#151 ; 1 .
The acid-fast bacillus present in cases of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis of bovines , and known as Johne 's bacillus , fails to grow outside the animal body on any of the artificial media at present used by bacteriologists .
2 .
The bacillus shows no definite growth on fresh bovine tissue or fresh extracts of bovine tissue removed aseptically and placed into sterile tubes .
3 .
There is no evidence that Jdhne 's bacillus grows in symbiosis with an ultra-microscopic virus .
1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , .
539 4 .
The specific bacillus will grow on media containing the dried and powdered growth of certain acid-fast bacilli which have been previously killed , and this is so even when the dead bacilli have been kept for a period of eight years , and subjected to a temperature of 115 ' C. in the autoclave for 1 hour .
5 .
The- most suitable bacillus to incorporate in the medium is the timothy-grass bacillus , and to a somewhat less degree the smegma bacillus of Moeller and the nasenschleim bacillus of Karlinski .
The human type of tubercle bacillus is also good , but on media containing the avian type Johne 's bacillus grows very slightly , if at all .
With the few bovine strains tested in media we were unable to get any definite evidence of growth with Johne 's bacillus .
Tubercle bacilli isolated from cats also gave negative results .
6 .
The essential substance or substances necessary for the growth of Johne 's bacillus can be extracted from the various acid-fast bacilli which give positive results by means of hot ethyl alcohol .
7 .
We have isolated Johne 's bacillus from five consecutive cases of pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , and have proved the morphological and biological characters of the bacilli isolated to be identical in every respect .
8 .
The bacilli isolated produce no lesions in mice , rats , guinea-pigs , rabbits , pigeons , or hens , if given by the mouth or inoculated into the peritoneal cavity or into a vein or subcutaneously .
9 .
The specific bacillus , when inoculated intravenously or given by the mouth to bovines , reproduces pseudo-tuberculous enteritis in the animal , and this cannot be distinguished from the original disease either clinically during life or post mortem .
Further , the bacillus can be recovered from the lesions in the intestine of the inoculated animal , and shows characters in every way identical with the bacilli isolated from the original cases .
10 .
Animals suffering from pseudo-tuberculous enteritis , either normally contracted or experimentally produced by the inoculation of pure cultures of Johne 's bacillus , give no definite reaction with diagnostic vaccines prepared from cultures of the timothy-grass bacillus or from the avian tubercle bacillus .
11 .
Yaccines can be prepared from cultures of Johne 's bacillus similar to those prepared from other acid-fast bacilli .
12 .
Diagnostic vaccines prepared from cultures of Johne 's bacillus grown on tubercle bacillus medium gave positive reactions with tubercular animals , which proved the medium used to be unsuitable for the preparation of a specific diagnostic vaccine for pseudo-tuberculous enteritis .
13 .
Yaccines prepared from cultures of Johne 's bacillus on a timothy-grass bacillus medium gave negative reactions with normal and with 540 Messrs. Twort and Ingram .
Isolating and [ Nov. 7 , tubercular animals , and also with bovines suffering from pseudo-tubercular enteritis .
We believe this to be due , partly to the small amount of growth in the fluid media , and partly to the fact that most of the growth was obtained from solid media and therefore not made in the same manner as diagnostic tuberculin .
We also believe that a highly concentrated vaccine will be required , and that we shall be able to prepare this now that one of our strains of Johne 's bacillus has started to grow on the surface of fluid media containing the timothy-grass bacillus .
In conclusion we may say that we are greatly indebted to Mr. de Vine , Mr. Hamilton , and Dr. Bulloch for the specimens and materials they have given us , to the donor of a naturally infected bull , and especially to the Boyal Society for the Government grants which enabled us to purchase the other animals .
An investigation such as this requires a large number of bovine experiments , but these we have been unable to perform through lack of funds .
Insufficient apparatus in the earlier stages also caused us considerable delay in the preparation of an efficient diagnostic vaccine , and we had no animals on which to test the first vaccine prepared .
We now possess the necessary apparatus , and a number of vaccines are in course of preparation , but unless the animals on which to test the vaccines are forthcoming , we shall be unable to prove the efficacy or otherwise of the vaccines , and shall be forced to leave it to other workers more favourably placed financially .
In any case it is to be hoped that other workers will test a diagnostic vaccine prepared in the manner we have indicated , for the economic loss from pseudo-tuberculous enteritis in such places as Denmark and the Channel Islands is of a very serious nature .
Some months ago we sent sub-cultures of the specific bacillus which we had grown to various workers in the British Isles , France , and in Denmark , and we hope that the desired vaccine will soon be obtained .
BIBLIOGRAPHY .
1 .
Johne and Frothingham .
" Fin eigentiimlicher Fall von Tuberkulose beim Rinde , 'Deutsche Zeitschrift fiir Tiermedizin und vergleichende Pathologie , ' 1895 , 21 Bd .
, S. 438 .
2 .
Rieck .
" Eigentiimliche Darmtuberkulose , " 'Bericht Uber das Veterinarwesen im Konigreiche Sachsen fiir das Jahr 1896 , ' S. 118 .
3 .
D. van der Sluys .
' Generalversamralung der niederlandischen Tierarzte in Utrecht , 26 u. 27 September , 1902 .
4 .
H. Markus .
" Een specifieke darmontsteking bij het rund , waarschijnlijk van tuberkuleusen aard , " 'Tijdschrift voor Veeartsenijkunde , ' 1903 , Deel 30 , Bldz .
193 .
5 .
H. Markus .
" Eine spezifische Darmentzundung des Rindes waarscheinlich tuberculoser Natur , " ' Zeitschrift fiir Tiermedizin , ' 1904 , 8 Bd .
, S. 68 .
1911 .
] Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , etc. 541 6 .
Ludwig .
" Tuberculose Infiltration des Darmes , " ' Bericht fiber das Veterinarwesen im Konigreiche Sachsen ffir das Jahr 1904 , ' S. 82 .
7 .
Li6naux and van der Eeckhout .
" Contribution a l'etude d'une enterite tuberculeuse speciale et de la diarrhee chronique du beeuf , " ' Annals de Medecine veterinaire , ' 1905 , 54e ann6e , P. 65 and 125 .
8 .
Borgeaud .
" Contribution a 1'etude de l'euterite chronique des bovides , " ' Schweitzer Archiv ffir Tierheilkunde , ' 1905 , 47 Bd .
, S. 221 .
9 .
Lienaux .
" Considerations en faveur du saprophytisme initial probable du bacille tuberculeux bovin , " 'Annales de M6d .
V6t .
, ' 1905 , 54e annee , p. 598 .
10 .
D. A. de Jong .
" Intraveneuze injectie van vogeltuberkelbacillen bij geiten , " 'Veterinaire Pathologie en Hygiene , ' 1905 , 3e reeks , S. 221 .
11 .
Li^naux und van den Eeckhout .
" Recherches nouvelles concernant la nature tuberculeuse de l'enterite hypertrophiante diffuse du boeuf , " ' Annals de Med. Vet .
, ' 1906 , 55e annee , p. 84 .
12 .
Bongert .
" Beitrage sir Lehre von der Entstehung der Tuberkulose ; 11.\#151 ; Die tuberkulose Infiltration der Darmmukosa beim Rind , eine Form von Darm-tuberkulose , welche durch abgeschwachte Saugetiertuberkelbazillen hervorgerufen wird , " 'Deutsche Tierarztliche Wochenschrift , ' 1906 , 14 Bd .
, S. 229 and 241 .
13 .
Freger .
" Enterite chronique hypertrophiante des bovides , " 'Journal de Med. Vet .
et de Zootechnie , ' 1906 , Tome 57 , p. 287 .
14 .
Bang .
" Chronische pseudo tuberkulose Darmentzundung beim Rind , ' 'Berliner Tierarztliche Wochenschrift , ' 1906 , No. 42 , S. 759 .
15 .
Mathis .
" Lesions de la diarrhee chronique des bovides , " ' Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Vet6r .
de Lyon , ' 1906 , p. 48 .
16 .
Borgeaud .
' Progres veterinaire , ' 25 mars , 1905 , p. 205 .
17 .
M. Koch and L. Rabinowitsche .
" Die tuberkulose der Vogel und ihre Beziehungen sir Saugetiertuberkulose , " ' Virchow 's Archiv , ' Band 190 , S , 246 .
18 .
Leclainche .
" L'enterite chronique hypertrophiante des bovides , " ' Revue generale de Med. Vet .
, ' 1907 , Tome 9 , p. 305 .
19 .
McFadyean .
" Johne 's Disease ; a Chronic Bacterial Enteritis of Cattle , " The Journal of Comparative Pathology and Therapeutics , ' 1907 , p. 48 .
20 .
Lienaux .
" Sir la nature tuberculeuse hypertrophiante diffuse du boeuf ; nouvelles experiences , " 'Annales de Med. Vet .
, ' 1907 , 56e annee , p. 433 .
21 .
Derselbe .
" Het verband tusschen zoogdieren vogeltuberculose , " * Veterinaire Pathologie en Hygiene , ' 1908 , 4e reeks , S. 448 .
22 .
Pearson .
" The Presence of Chronic Bacterial Dysentery in Cattle in America , " 'American Veterinary Review , ' February , 1908 .
23 .
Bugge and Albien .
" Vorlaufige Mitteilung fiber die Enteritis chronica bovis pseudotuberculosa , " ' Berliner Tierarztliche Wochenschrift , ' 1908 , S. 175 .
24 .
Horne .
" Enteritis chronica pseudotuberculosa bovis oder die ' Johne'sclie Seuche ' Konstatiert in Norwegen , " 'Norsk Veterinartidsskrift , ' 1908 , S. 72 ; ' Autoreferat in Berliner Tierarztliche Wochenschrift , ' 1908 , S. 235 .
25 .
W. L. Beebe .
'Minnesota American Vet .
Review , ' September , 1908 .
26 .
Bugge and Cordsen .
" Einige Beobachtungen fiber die Enteritis chronica bovis pseudotuberculosa , " 'Zeitschrift ffir Infektionskrankheiten , parasitaire Krank-heiten und Hygiene der Haustiere , ' 1908 , 5 Bd .
, S. 133 .
27 .
Meyer .
" Uber die durch saurefeste Bakterien hervorgerufene diffuse Hypertrophie der Darmsclileimhaut des Rindes , " 'Arbeiten aus deni Institut sir Erforschung der Infektionskrankheiten in Bern aus den Laboratorien des Schweizer Serum und Impfinstitutes , ' Zweites Heft , 1908 .
28 .
Schmaltz .
'Berliner Tierarztliche Wochen .
, ' 1909 , No. 1 .
542 Isolating and Cultivating the Mycobacterium enteritidis , e\#163 ; c. 29 .
Markus .
Paper read at the 9tli International Veterinary Congress , Hague September , 1909 .
30 .
B. Bang .
Paper read at the 9th International Veterinary Congress , Hague September , 1909 .
31 .
Stuurman .
Paper read at the 9th International Veterinary Congress , Hague , September , 1909 .
32 .
Bongert .
Paper read at the 9th International Veterinary Congress , Hague , September , 1909 .
33 .
Meissner .
Paper read at the 9th International Veterinary Congress , Hague , September , 1909 .
34 .
Meissner and Trapp .
" Der chronische infektiose Darmkatarrh des Binds ( Enteritis chronica infectiosa bovis ) , " ' Mitt .
d. Kaiser Wilh .
Institut .
fur Landwirtsch .
in Bromberg .
Centralblatt , ' 1910 , Bd .
2 , Heft 3 , pp. 219\#151 ; 286 .
35 .
S. Stockman .
'Report of the Chief Veterinary Officer to the Board of Agriculture , ' London , 1909 .
36 .
S. Stockman .
" Johne 's Disease in Sheep , " ' Journal of Comp. Path , and Therapeutics , ' March , 1911 .
37 .
B. Bang .
'Proc .
Not .
Vet .
Assocn .
, ' 1906 .
38 .
O. Bang .
'66de Beretning fra den Kgl .
Veterinaer- og Landbohojskoles Laboratorium for landokonomiske Forsog , ' 1910 .
39 .
G. P. Male .
" The Clinical Aspect of Johne 's Disease and the Avian Tuberculin Test , " 'Royal Counties Vet .
Med. Assoc. , ' April 28 , 1911 .
40 .
W. Bulloch and J. J. R. Macleod .
" The Chemical Constitution of the Tubercle Bacillus , " 'Journal of Hygiene , ' 1904 , vol. 4 .
41 .
F. W. Twort .
" A Method for Isolating and Growing the Lepra Bacillus of Man , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 83 .
42 .
F. W. Twort .
" The Influence of Glucosides on the Growth of Acid-fast Bacilli , with a New Method of Isolating Human Tubercle Bacilli directly from Tuberculous Material contaminated with other Micro-organisms , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 81 .

