Numb.98 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
November .
17 .
1673 .
The CONTENT S. An Account of the Current of the Tides about the Orcades .
A Continuation of the Letters exchanged between Monsieur Slusius and Monsieur Hugenius , concerning the Optic Problem of Alhszen , discoursed of in Numb.97 .
A Letter of Dr. John Wallis , asserting to William Neile Esquire , the first Invention and Demonstration of the Equality of theCurve line of a Paraboloeid to a Straight line : And next , to Sir Christopher Wren Knight , the finding a Straight line equal to that of a Cycloid , and to the parts thereof .
Two other Letters , consonant to the former ; one of the Lord Vis-count Brouncker ; the other , of the said Sir Ch. Wren .
An Account of Monsieur Du Hamel 's Book De Corpore Animato .
An Account of theCurrent of the Tides about theOrcades , given in by aGentleman ofScotland , who had passed himself that way , and from him communicated to the Publisher by the truly Honourable Sir , Robert Moray Knight , deceased , lately one of the Vice-Presidents of the R.Society , of which he had been President formerly ; whose Death is no less deservedly than exceedingly lamented by all that knew his Worth , Knowledge , Integrity , Prudence , and Courage .
IN Fairay-Sound ( betwixt the Isles of Fairay and AEtha in Orkney ) the Sea runs North-east , for the space only of three hours in Flowing , and nine hours South-west in Ebbing .
This is the course of the Tide only in the middle of the Sound , which is but one mile broad .
The next Isle to Fairay , towards the South-west , is Westra , which is an Island about five miles in length , and three or four miles in breadth .
Upon the South-east side of this Island , within a mile to the shore , lies another little Isle , which is not half a mile in Circumference .
South and South-west from these two Islands , is Westra-Frith , eight miles in breadth , running betwixt them , and the Isle called Pansa .
Through this Frith the English ships do ordinarily pass , in their course to Iseland .
Whilst the Sea tunneth from West to East in Flowing , through this Westra-Frith , there are no greater Surges , than in any other place of the Sea ; and in a calm day , it is as smooth as any Lake , though there is constantly a great current , in the flux and reflux of the Sea .
Yet at the South-East end of the forementioned little Island , theSea no sooner begins to run westward in Ebbing , but there begins a surge to appear , which continually increases , until the Ebb be half spent , and afterwards it decreases , until it be low water ; at which time there appears no such thing .
East and west from this great Surge , there are some few lesser surges seen , which are gradually less , towards the east and west , after this manner I having occasion to pass that way , in a little boat , when we had passed over the Eastmost surges , and were beginning to ascend the biggest , upon the tenth of April , at one of the clock in the afternoon , the surge before us was so high , that it intercepted the sight of the Sun , and some deg. of the firmament above it .
This surge is about a quarter of a mile in length .
When there is any wind , which occasioneth the breaking of the tops of the Surges , there is no passing that way .
The current of the Tide is so strong there , that there is no need of Sails or of Oars , save only to direct the boat , as doth the helm .

