478 Mr. J. B. Farmer .
On Relations of the [ Dec. 14 , tral connexions .
Degeneration and sclerosis of the so-called " ascending root " was traced as far as the 2nd cervical nerve , after section of the sensory division ; and atrophy of the so-called " descending root " was observed after section of the motor division .
We were unable to confirm the existence of a direct cerebellar root to this nerve .
IY .
" On the Relations of the Nucleus to Spore-formation in certain Liver-worts .
" By J. Bretland Farmer , M.A. , Royal College of Science , London .
Communicated by Professor Vines , F.R.S. Received November 9 , 1893 .
It is well known that , as a general rule , during the formation of spore tetrads from their mother cells , the nucleus of the latter commonly undergoes two successive bipartitions .
Each of the resulting four nuclei ultimately becomes a centre for the aggregation of a portion of the original protoplasm , whilst division of the whole immediately follows by means of cell walls .
Though the above method is the one most commonly followed during the process of spore development , so far as the essential features are concerned , it is by no means the invariable one .
Probably , however , it is to be regarded as typical , and the deviations about to be described should be interpreted as modifications of it .
Anyone who is familiar with Hofmeister 's drawings , or who has ever seen spore production actually going on in the Hepatic\#174 ; , must have noticed that , in many species , the mother cell of the tetrad becomes four-lobed previously to its breaking up into its four spores .
This lobed appearance is seen whilst the original nucleus is still resting , and is due to a bulging out of the cell wall in four directions , accompanied by an ingrowth of cellulose into the lumen of the cell , and towards the nucleus .
If the process be followed in Aneura multijida , the intruding walls are seen to closely approach the nucleus while this body is still in the resting state .
The latter body then divides very rapidly , forming first ten , then twenty , chromosomes , which are arrayed along a very short spindle at the centre of the cell .
Then another spindle appears in a plane inclined to that of the first , and the number of the chromosomes is apparently about forty , though , by reason of their small size and the difference in their planes , it is difficult to be quite certain .
as to their number .
The nucleus here then goes through the ordinary form of karyokinesis , but in a somewhat compressed form .
The four groups of ten chromosomes then move off along the achromatic spindles to their respective lobes , and the further ingrowth of the cell walls to the centre , where they meet , cuts off the several proto- 1893 .
] Nucleus to Spore-formation certain Liver-worts .
479 plasmic portions of the fonr spores .
The achromatic spindle is fairly well marked , and runs up sharply to a point in each lobe , and a structure can often be seen at the end which possibly represents the presence of a centrosome .
In Aneura pinguis the case is somewhat different .
The lobing of the spore mother cell is much more apparent than in A. , and just before division occurs , a portion of the dense protoplasm which surrounds the nucleus ( and which should probably be regarded as an archoplasm ) protrudes as an achromatic spindle simultaneously into each of the four cell lobes .
This takes place while the nucleus is still resting , 'and thus a quadripolar spindle is formed .
The nucleus then becomes also lobed , in such a way that it assumes a tetrahedral shape , with an angle in contact with each achromatic sheaf .
I have not , through scarcity of material , as yet been able to observe the behaviour of the chromosomes in this species , but there is hardly room for doubt that a simultaneous separation of the bodies into four groups takes place .
This conclusion is strongly supported by the peculiar behaviour of the archoplasmic spindle already described .
It should be mentioned that the application of such stains as gentian-violet and orange , or haematoxyiin and orange , gives such clear results that it is impossible to mistake the character of the process .
The most conclusive results , as well as the most remarkable , were obtained in the case of a tropical Liver-wort , Steetzia which I collected when in Ceylon two years ago .
The division of the nucleus takes place at an extremely late period in the development of the spores .
The intruding walls grow into the cavity of the mother cell to such an extent as almost to touch the nucleus itself , whilst the sculpturing so characteristic of the mature spore is quite obvious , even before the nucleus exhibits any sign of approaching division .
I have been fortunate in securing a large number of preparations in which all the steps are clearly shown , and have further succeeded in getting the important stages photographed .
The nucleus is invested by a dense mass of protoplasm ( archoplasm ) , and this , as in Aneura pinguis , forms a quadripolar achromatic spindle whilst the nucleus is still in the resting condition .
The ends of the spindle severally reach out to a point beyond the centre of each lobe .
I have termed the spindle achromatic , following the common usage , but , as a matter of fact , it stains deeply with heematoxylin , safranin , or gentian-violet\#151 ; a point of some interest .
The chromatic portion of the nucleus now forms a large mass in the centre , and becomes the lobes being united centrally till quite late .
Then they become separate , and each breaks into two chromosomes of a rod-like shape , which are at first aggregated somewhat irregularly in the centre , from which the achromatic spindles diverge .
Speedily , however , they arrange themselves in pairs , and each pair VOL. Lrv .
2 L 480 Dr. Y. Harley .
Sugar as a Food [ Dec. 14 , furnishes the chromatic element to the daughter nucleus .
The cell walls rapidly meet in the centre , and their union is effected before the reconstruction of the daughter nuclei .
The spindle mass contracts up to the middle of each of the four cells , and invests the young nucleus in the same manner as was the case with the original body .
Often during this part of the process there appeared to be two nuclei in each spore cell , but I regard this as probably due to an unequal contraction of the archoplasmic mass .
In many of the daughter nuclei the two chromosomes could be detected for some little time , but they frequently become more numerous , and they finally lose their distinctness and are impossible to trace , though I leave , for the present at least , the question of their real permanence an open one .
[ Since the above was written , I have seen a quadripolar spindle , also in Aneura multifida .
It is not so well marked as in A. pinguis , and seems only to occur immediately before division .
Its extremely short duration is indicated by the fact that , although I possess several hundred preparations , all fixed at nearly the same stage , in only two of them is there unequivocal evidence of the existence of such a spindle before the individualising of the chromosomes takes place.\#151 ; November 21 , 1893 .
] V. " Sugar as a Food in the Production of Muscular Work .
" By Vaughan Harley , M.D. , Teacher of Chemical Pathology , University College , London , Grocer Research Scholar .
Communicated by George Harley , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 22 , 1893 .
It may be said to have been universally believed that proteids were the essential producers of muscular work until the experiments of Voit* and Pettenkoferf showed that , within certain limits , muscular work can be produced by carbohydrates .
They did this by showing the relative amounts of nitrogen eliminated during muscular activity and repose .
Subsequently , Chauveau and KaufmannJ showed , by comparing the quantity of sugar that disappeared from the blood traversing a muscle while contracting and at rest , that four times more sugar was used up during the period of muscular activity .
Having failed to find any further recorded facts regarding sugar as a muscle food , I thought it desirable , in connexion with the investiga* Yoit , * Ueber d. Einfluss d. Muskelbewegung auf d. Stoffwechsel .
' Munchen , 1860 .
' \#166 ; f Pettenkofer and Yoit , ibid. , vol. 2 , p. 459 , 1866 .
$ Chauveau and Kaufmann , ' Compfc .
Rendus , ' vol. 103,1886 ; vol. 104,1887 .

