Contributions to the Chemistry of the Urine .
Part II .
" On the Variations in the Alkaline and Earthy Phosphates in Disease .
" By Henry Bence Jones , M.D. , Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians .
Communicated by Thomas Graham , Esq. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The analyses , of which the results are given in a series of tables , were made by the author , chiefly from the urine of patients labouring under different diseases in St. George 's Hospital , and therefore nearly under the same circumstances as far as exercise was concerned .
He found that the variations in the earthy phosphates were in general independent of the nature of the disease .
In fractures of the spine and paraplegia , however , the total amount of these salts was slightly above the healthy standard during the early period , and when inflammatory action might be considered as prevailing ; but when this action had subsided , and the affection had become chronic , the total quantity of phosphatic salts was less than natural .
In chronic diseases of the brain , and in chronic and even in acute diseases of the membranes , no increase of these salts was observed .
In fractures of the bones of the skull , when inflammation of the brain supervened , there was a slight increase of the total amount of phosphates ; but no such increase occurred when the head was not affected , even although acute inflammation of other organs existed .
In acute inflammation of the brain there was an excessive secretion of phosphates , which returned to the natural quantity as soon as the inflammation passed into the chronic state .
In some functional diseases of the brain , attended with delirium , the secretion of the salts was excessive ; but the excess ceased with the disappearance of that symptom .
In other functional diseases , as in fevers , no excess was observable .
In delirium tremens , when food could be taken , there was neither excess nor deficiency ; but in the most violent cases , where no food could be taken , the quantity of the phosphates was diminished in a most remarkable degree .
In the general paralysis of the insane , no increase of phosphates was observed .
One case of acute paroxysm of mania showed a small increase dtring the paroxysm ; in two other cases of mania there was a diminution of phosphates approaching to that occurring in delirium tremens .
Bright 's disease , even attended with acute inflammation , showed no increase .
When only a few-ounces of urine were secreted,.as in , dropsy , no increase was observed ; and none also in a very extreme .
case of exostosis .
In the case of mollities ossium , there was a decided increase of the earthy phosphates ; and at last , the alkaline phosphates were also in excess , although there was no indication of affections of the nervous structures .
The following are the general conclusions which the author draws from his inquiries : first , that acute affections of the nervous substance , organic and functional , are the only diseases in which an excess of phosphatic salts appears in the urine ; and in acute inflammation of the brain , its amount is proportional to the intensity of the inflammation ; secondly , that in a large class of functional diseases of the brain , of which delirium tremens presents the most marked example , the secretion of phosphates is most remarkably diminished ; and lastly , that no chronic disease exhibits any marked excess in the total quantity of phosphatic salts secreted , at least as far as the mode of ' analysis employed by the author can be regarded as conclusive .

