176 Mr. W. Crookes on the O [ Apr. 26 III .
" On Repulsion resulting from Radiation.\#151 ; Preliminary Note on the Otheoscope .
" By William Crookes , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received April 23 , 1877 .
I communicated to the Royal Society in November last an account ol some radiometers which I had made with the object of putting tc experimental proof the " molecular pressure " theory of the repulsior resulting from radiation .
Continuing these researches , I have constructed other instruments , in which a movable fly is caused to rotate by the molecular pressure generated on fixed parts of the apparatus .
In the radiometer , the surface which produces the molecular disturbance is mounted on a fly , and is driven backwards by the excess oi pressure between it and the sides of the containing vessel .
Regarding the radiometer as a heat-engine , it is seen to be imperfect in many respects .
The black or driving surface , corresponding to the heater of the engine , being also part of the moving fly , is restricted as to weight , material , and area of surface .
It must be of the lightest possible construction , or friction will greatly interfere with its movement ; it must not expose much surface , or it will be too heavy ; and it must be a very bad conductor of heat , so as to retain the excess of pressure on one side .
Again , the part corresponding to the cooler of the engine ( the side of the glass bulb ) admits of but little modification .
It must almost necessarily be of glass , by no means the best material for the purpose ; it is obliged to be of one particular shape ; and it cannot be brought very near the driving surface .
A perfect instrument would be One in which the heater was stationary ; it might then be of the most suitable material , of sufficient area of surface , and of the most efficient shape , irrespective of weight .
The cooler should be the part which moves ; it should be as close as possible to the heater , and of the best size , shape , and weight for utilizing the force impinging on it .
By having the driving surface of large size , and making it of a good conductor of heat , such as silver , gold , or copper , a very faint amount of incident radiation suffices to produce motion .
The black surface acts as if a molecular* wind were blowing from it , principally in a direction normal to the surface .
This wind blows away whatever easily movable body happens to be in front of it , irrespective of colour , shape , or material ; and in its capability of deflection from one surface to another , its arrest by solid bodies , and its tangential action , it behaves in most respects like an actual wind .
" Whilst the radiometer admits of but few modifications , such an instru* Molecular , not molar .
There is no wind in the sense of an actual transference of air from one place to another .
This molecular movement may be compared to the movement of the gases when water is decomposd by an electric current .
In the water connecting the two poles there is no apparent movement , although eight times as much matter is passing one way as the other .
gyp j Mr. W. Crookes on the Otheoscope .
, ent as the one here sketched out is capable of an almost endless variety f forms ; and as it is essentially different in its construction and mode faction to the radiometer , I propose to identify it by a distinctive am , and call it the Otheoscope ( utdew , I propel ) .
The glass bulb is an essential portion of the machinery of the radio-leter , without which the fly would not move ; but in the otheoscope the lass vessel simply acts as a preserver of the requsite amount of rarefac-on .
Carry a radiometer to a point in space where the atmospheric pressure i equal to , say , one millimetre of mercury , and remove the glass bulb ; lie fly will not move , however strong the incident radiation .
But place he otheoscope in the same conditions , and it will move as well without he case as with it .
In the preliminary note already referred to* , I described a piece of appa-atus by which I was able to measure the thickness of the layer of mole-nlar pressure generated when radiation impinged on a blackened surface it any degree of exhaustion .
At the ordinary density of the atmosphere he existence of this molecular disturbance was detected several millimetres iff , and its intensity increased largely as the generatiug surface and mov-ible plate were brought closer together .
It would be possible , therefore , ; o construct an otheoscope in which no rarefaction or containing vessel ivas necessary , but in which motion would take place in air at the normal density t. Such a heat-engine would probably work very well in sun- light .
t _ ' ' .
Aided by the mechanical dexterity of my assistant , Mr. C. H. G-iming-tiam , I have constructed several varieties of otheoscope .
These will be exhibited at the Soiree of the Eoyal Society on Wednesday next , as illustrations of the very beautiful manner in which , at this stage of my investigations , theory and experiment proceed hand in hand , alternately assisting each other , and enlarging our knowledge of these laws of molecular movement which constitute a key to the relations of force and matter .
- . .
" - The following is a list of the otheoscopes I have already made , together with some new experimental radiometers , which will be exhibited for the first time on Wednesday:\#151 ; 1 .
Otheoscope.\#151 ; A four-armed fly , carrying four vanes of thin clear mica , is mounted like a radiometer in an exhausted glass bulb .
At one side of the bulb a plate of mica blacked one side is fastened in a vertical plane , in such a position that each clear vane in rotating shall pass the plate , leaving a space between of about a millimetre .
If a candle is brought Jm near , and by means of a shade the light is allowed to fall only on the clear vanes , no motion is produced ; but if the light shines on the black * Proc. Royal Soc. Nov. 16,1876 , p. 310 .
t Since writing this I have constructed such an instrument , place in the way I had anticipated.\#151 ; W. 0 .
, April 26th , 1877 .
The movement takes Mr. W. Crookes on the [ Apr. 26 plate , the fly instantly rotates as if a wind were issuing from this surface , and keeps on moving as long as the light is near .
2 .
Otheoscope.\#151 ; A four-armed fly carries roasted mica vanes , and is mounted in an exhausted glass bulb like a radiometer .
Fixed to the side of the bulb are three plates of clear mica , equidistant from each other in a vertical plane , but oblique to the axis .
A candle brought near the fixed plates generates molecular pressure , which , falling obliquely on the fly , causes it to rotate .
3 .
Otheoscope.\#151 ; A large horizontal disk revolving by the molecular disturbance on the surface of inclined metallic vanes , which are blacked on both sides in order to absorb the maximum amount of radiation .
4 .
Otheoscope.\#151 ; Inclined aluminium vanes driven by the molecular disturbance from the fixed black mica disk below , blowing ( so to speak ) through them .
5 .
Otheoscope.\#151 ; A large horizontal coloured disk of roasted mica , driven by inclined aluminium vanes placed underneath it .
6 .
Otheoscope.\#151 ; A bright aluminium disk cut in segments , and each segment turned at an angle , driven by a similar one below of lampblacked silver .
7 .
Radiometer.\#151 ; A vertical radiometer , made with eight disks of mica blacked on one side , and the whole suspended on a horizontal axis which works in two glass cups .
The motion of the radiometer is assisted on each side by driving vanes of aluminium blacked on one side .
8 .
Radiometer.\#151 ; A vertical turbine radiometer , the oval vanes of roasted mica blacked on one side .
9 .
Radiometer.\#151 ; A spiral radiometer of roasted mica blacked on the upper side .
10 .
Radiometer of large size , showing great sensitiveness .
11 .
Radiometer.\#151 ; A two-disk radiometer , the fly carrying roasted mica disks blacked on one side ; in front of each black surface is fixed a large disk of thin clear mica .
The molecular disturbance set up on the black surface , and streaming from it , is reflected in the opposite direction by the clear plate of mica , causing the fly to move abnormally , i. e. the black surface towards the light .
12 .
Radiometer .
A two-disk radiometer , the fly carrying roasted mica disks blacked on one side , similar to No. 11 , but with a large clear disk on each side .
The molecular disturbance , prevented from being reflected backwards by the second clear disk , is thus caused to expand itself in a vertical plane , the result being a total loss of sensitiveness .
13 .
Radiometer .
A two-disk , cup-shaped , aluminium radiometer , facing opposite ways ; both sides bright .
Exposed to a standard candle 3*5 inches off , the fly rotates continuously at the rate of one revolution in 3-37 seconds .
A screen placed in front , so as to let the light shine only on the convex surface , produces repulsion of the latter , causing continuous rotation at the rate of one revolution in 7*5 seconds .
When the 377 .
] On Bright Lines in the Spectra of Nebula .
179 onvex side is screened off , so as to let the light shine only on the conave continuous rotation is produced at the rate of one revolution in \gt ; .95* seconds , the concave side being apparently attracted .
These expen-aents show that the repulsive action of radiation on the convex side is bout equal to the attractive action of radiation on the concave side , and hat the double speed with which the fly moves when no screen is interred is the sum of the attractive and repulsive actions .
14 .
Radiometer.\#151 ; A two-disk , cup-shaped , aluminium radiometer , lamp-Dlacked on the concave surfaces .
In this instrument the usual action of light is reversed , rotation taking place , the bright convex side being repelled , and the black concave attracted .
" When the light shines only m the bright convex side , no movement is produced ; but when it shines on the black concave side , this is attracted , producing rotation .
15 .
Radiometer.\#151 ; A cup-shaped radiometer similar to the above , but having the convex surfaces black and the concave bright .
Light shining on this instrument causes it to rotate rapidly , the convex black being repelled .
No movement is produced on letting the light shine on the bright concave surface , but good rotation is produced when only the black convex surface is illuminated .
16 .
Radiometer.\#151 ; A multiple-disk , cup-shaped , turbine radiometer , bright on both sides , working by the action of warm water below and the cooling effect of the air above .
17 .
Radiometer.\#151 ; A four-armed , metallic radiometer with deep cups , bright on both sides . .
18 .
Radiometer.\#151 ; A four-armed radiometer , the vanes consisting oi mica cups , bright on both sides .
19 .
Radiometer.\#151 ; A four-armed radiometer having clear mica vanes , the direction of motion being determined by the angle formed by the mica vanes with the inner surface of the glass bulb .
IV .
" On the Inferences to be drawn from the Appearance of Bright Lines in the Spectra of Irresolvable Nebulae .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received April 26 , 1877 .
In a paper recently read before the Royal Society , Mr. Stone attempts to show that the fact that the spectra of some of the irresolvable nebulae consist mainly of bright lines does not warrant the inference that these bodies are of a constitution different from our sun and the generality of the fixed stars , and consist mainly of glowing gas , so far , at least , as the light-giving portion of them is concerned .
Waiving for the present the objections which may be urged against Mr. Stone 's reasoning , let us consider the question in the light of the results afforded by actual observation .

