PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
Section B.\#151 ; Biological The Influence of Osmotic Pressure upon , the Regeneration of Gunda ulvse .
By Dorothy Jordan Lloyd , B.Sc. , Bathurst Student , Newnham College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. J. Stanley Gardiner , F.R.S. Received March 21 , \#151 ; Read April 30 , 1914 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE I.\#151 ; Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1 II.\#151 ; Preliminary Experiments on Reduction and Growth in Whole Animals ... 3 a. Starvation of Fully-fed Worms ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
3 6 .
Feeding of Starved Worms ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
5 IIT.\#151 ; Preliminary Experiments on Duration of Life of Whole Animals in .
Solutions of Different Osmotic Pressure ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 5 IV.-\#151 ; Study of the Normal Course of the Regeneration of the Posterior End ... 6 V.\#151 ; 'Regeneration in Solutions of different Osmotic Pressure . .
' ... . .
10 VI.\#151 ; Discussion ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
17 VIJ.\#151 ; Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 18 I. Introduction .
This work was carried out during the summer of 1912 and the spring of 1913 , at the laboratory of the Marine " Biological Association , at Plymouth .
The object of the investigation was to discover how far marine turbellarians could be made to undergo variation while regenerating lost parts , and , if possible , to correlate the variations with definite physical conditions .
Gunda ulvaz was the only species used during the course of the investigation .
It is a small Triclad and its structure has been described in detail by Wendt ( 16 ) and Iijima ( 5 ) .
VOL. lxxxviii.\#151 ; B. B 2 Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of Osmotic The length of the fully grown specimens obtained at Plymouth lies between 5 and 6 mm. , though the worms are found sexually mature from a length of 4 mm. It occurs between tide-marks and near the borders of a small stream .
Density determinations made on different occasions of the water in which it was found , show that it is normally exposed to a very wide variation in osmotic pressure .
The lowest density value recorded was POOl .
i.e. a value corresponding to almost fresh water ; the highest was P028 .
The mean density of the sea-water at Plymouth is 1*023 .
This fact is an important one to take into consideration when placing the animal under experimental conditions in the laboratory .
Before proceeding to the main part of the work , it seemed advisable to make three sets of preliminary experiments : the first of these was to determine the limits of osmotic pressure within which whole worms are capable of living ; the second was to observe the morphological changes accompanying starvation in whole animals ; and the third was to make a histological study of the regeneration in sea-water .
These are all described in detail below .
For the experiments in regeneration , only regeneration of the posterior end was considered .
G. ulvce differs from most Triclads in that it will only regenerate a new head in the presence of the cerebral ganglia ( 6 ) .
As it was wished to study the effects of removing large pieces , the experiments were necessarily limited to regeneration of the posterior end .
To secure uniformity , the worms were all transected half way down the length of the body .
G. ulvce is capable of living for many months in a state of starvation , during which it slowly diminishes in size .
Nevertheless , worms kept without food until reduced in length from 5*5 to 1*5 mm. , when bisected , restored their normal form as rapidly as did fully fed specimens .
This point is emphasised here because in the experiments considered in this paper the animals were left entirely without food .
This was done , firstly , to avoid contaminating the experimental waters , and , secondly , because worms regenerating in different solutions develop the new mouth at very different intervals after section , and thus the starvation experiments progress equally rapidly and more uniformly .
A number of observations were made on the regeneration of G. ulvce under both starving and fully fed conditions , and the differences which are found consist only in the rather less degree of reduction that occurs when feeding is taking place while the worms regenerate .
The figures of the whole worms are camera sketches made from living material .
The sections were made from material fixed in corrosive acetic , and stained in picronigrosin and eosin .
The sections used for studying the Pressure upon the Regeneration of Gunda ulvse .
3 cytology were stained with Heidenhain 's iron hematoxylin followed by orange G. .
II .
Preliminary Experiments on Eeduction and Growth in Whole Animals .
( a ) Reduction .
A number of adult worms 5-6 mm. in length were washed in sterile water and placed in a wide-mouthed sterile bottle which was closed with a cork .
Through this cork were passed two glass tubes forming the inlet and outlet of an air-circulation , both tubes having a cotton-wool plug in them to keep back chance organisms in the circulating air .
The animals in this apparatus were kept in a state of starvation .
At intervals animals were removed , measured , and fixed for sectioning .
The worms were found to decrease fairly steadily in length under starvation .
Curve A in text-fig .
1 shows the course of diminution in length in an experiment lasting 12 weeks .
Microscopical examination of sections showed that Days Fig. 1 .
.Curve A , curve of diminution of length of starving animals .
Curve B , curve of rate of growth of starved worms on feeding .
Note that feeding was interrupted between 22nd and 37th day .
starvation is always accompanied by absorption of the generative system .
The yolk-glands appear to be absorbed first , but after the worms have been reduced to about 4-5 mm. in length degenerative changes appear in the ovary , testes and secondary sexual organs .
By the time the worms are reduced b 2 4 Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of Osmotic to 3 mm. in length , i.e.after 10 weeks , the last trace of the generative system has vanished .
Stoppenbrink ( 15 ) has recorded similar occurrences in starving Planaria .
He states that the order of disappearance isYolk-glands , copulatory apparatus , testes , and ovaries .
In Gund while the yolk-glands disappear first , the rest of the genital system appears to be absorbed at a uniform rate .
Stoppenbrink states that there is no phagocytosis in the absorption of the organs .
In Gunda the fact that an organ undergoing reduction is always surrounded by a sheath of parenchyma cells ( see fig. 4 , B ) , some of which even penetrate into the various organs , makes it appear probable that the organs are destroyed by a phagocytic action of the undifferentiated parenchyma .
Big .
2 shows an adult testis , fig. 3 a testis undergoing degeneration .
Bigs .
4 , A and B , show the changes in the ovary .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Testis of Adult Worm .
ggut .
tes .
, testis , y. , yolk-glands .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Testis after 21 Days ' Degeneration of Posterior End in Sea-water .
deg.sp.c .
, degenerating spermatocytes , tea , testis .
Pressure upon the Regeneration of Gunda ulvse .
A. \#151 ; Ovary B. \#151 ; Ovary after 25 days ' regeneration of posterior end in sea-water .
g. , gut .
pax .
, parenchyma cells , ov .
, ovary , ov.d .
, oviduct .
( b ) Groiv Experiments were also made in rate of growth .
Worms which had been reduced to 1*5 mm. in length by a long period of starvation were fed daily on scraps of the tail muscle of shrimps .
The rate of growth was very rapid , and is indicated in curve B , in fig. 1 .
Unfortunately the experiment was interrupted , and the worms went without food from the 25th to the 37th day .
It can be seen that this period was one of reduction in length .
On the feeding being resumed growth again took place .
At the beginning of the experiment the worms were without a trace of the generative system .
This was first noticed in the sections at the 10th day , i.e. when the worms were 2'7 mm. long .
The generative system was completely restored at a length of 4-6 mm. , i.e.36 days after its first appearance .
The generative system in Gunda , as in other Turbellaria , is formed by the localisation and metamorphosis of nests of parenchyma cells .
III .
Preliminary Experiments on Duration of Life of Whole Animals in Solutions of Different Osmotic Pressure .
A preliminary series of experiments was made so as to ascertain the limits of density , salinity , and osmotic pressure which whole worms are capable of withstanding .
A table recording these results is given below ( Table H ) .
Conditions under which the worms can live for seven weeks were taken as capable of supporting them alive indefinitely .
--ov .
pa.c " Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of Osmotic Table I. 1 \#166 ; Composition of water .
Density .
Salinity .
Osmotic pressure ( atmospheres ) ( approx , within 0'5 atmosphere ) .
Length of life of \amp ; .
ulvce in the solution .
1 .
Distilled water 1 -ooo grm. per litre .
0 *00 1-18 hours .
2 .
Tap water 1 -ooo 0 00 \#151 ; 6 hours-3 days .
3 .
100 c.c. distilled water\#151 ; + 5 c.c. sea-water 1 *000 1*60 1 0 3-6 days .
Indefinitely .
4 .
+ \#187 ; \#187 ; 1 *001 3*11 2 -0 5 .
+ 20 " , , 1002 5*70 3-5 6 .
+ 50 " " 1 007 11 *4 7*5 7 .
+100 " " 1 -012 17 *1 11 *0 8 .
+ 200 " 1*015 22*8 15*0 9 .
+ 500 " , , \#151 ; 28 *5 18 *5 10 .
Sea-water 1*023 34 2 22 -5 11 .
12 .
100 c.c. sea-water\#151 ; + 10 c.c. 2-5M NaCl + 20 " , , 1 *030 1*037 44-3 52 -8 29*5 33*5 14 days- 13 .
+ 30 " , , 1 043 60 1 40-5 Indefinitely .
18-40 days .
14 .
+ 40 " , , 1046 66 *7 \#151 ; 5-20 " 15 .
+ 80 " , , 1 058 83 *8 \#151 ; 3-7 16 .
+ 200 " , , S .1 1 *073 109 -0 \#151 ; 6 hours\#151 ; 1 day .
The solutions used were made by mixing known volumes of sea-water .with distilled water , or with 2*5M NaCI , calculating the salt content , and from this taking the osmotic pressure from the values given in Kriimmel 's * Handbuch der Ozeanographie ' ( 8 ) .
The salinity of the sea-water used was measured by titrating against standard silver nitrate and determining the chlorine value .
Knudsen 's tables ( 7 ) give the formula for converting the chlorine value obtained into the salinity value .
It will be seen that the worms are capable of living for an indefinite time in water which has an osmotic pressure of more than 2 and less than 33 atmospheres .
Between these limits the worms remain perfectly normal in appearance .
In solutions more dilute and in fresh and distilled water the worms swell up to four or five times their normal size .
In water having a salinity of 66 per cent , or more they become shrivelled .
IV .
Normal Regeneration of the Posterior End .
The changes which set in in G. uIvcb after section and which culminate in the restoration of the lost parts and production of a complete worm fall under the head of regulatory rather than of regenerative changes .
There is no growth in the ordinary sense of the word* since the first product of Pressure upon the Regeneration of Gunda ulvse .
7 regulation is never larger than the fragment which produced it .
Fig. 5 , 1-4 , show the stages in the transformation of an anterior end into a complete worm .
It can be seen that there is in this case actual diminution in length .
This is due to the fact that the regulation occurred under starving conditions .
When the pieces are fully fed there is no reduction in length .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Regeneration of Posterior End in Sea-water .
1 .
7 days .
2 .
14 days .
3 .
28 days .
4 .
49 days .
5 .
Side view of 3 .
The chief role in the transformation is played by the parenchyma cells .
These cells are small migratory cells which are found in large numbers throughout the whole length of the animal 's body .
In regulation they have two functions\#151 ; ( 1 ) They migrate in large numbers to the region of the wound , where they form first an undifferentiated mass of cells and later the new tissues .
( 2 ) They act as phagocytes , making a sheath round the old organs , e.g. , brain and genitalia , and reducing them in size until they have become proportionate to the size of the new worm .
The course of regulation in G. ulvce is essentially similar to that already described in various species of Planaria by Schultz ( 11 ) , Flexner(4 ) , and Bardeen ( 1 ) .
The wound is closed by the ectoderm creeping inwards as a thin acellular layer ( see fig. 6 , acxp ) .
After the wound has healed ( three to five days after section ) the parenchyma accumulates at the hind end .
This accumulation of parenchyma cells is chiefly due to migration .
Mitotic figures are to be found , but are not common in the sections , showing that actual cell division plays only a small rdle in the building up of the new tail .
This consists for a few days of undifferentiated parenchyma , but later differentiated cells appear .
The formation of the muscular layer of the new tail takes place by differentiation Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of Osmotic Fig. 6.\#151 ; Regeneration of the posterior end of in sea-water .
3 days .
ac.ep .
, acellular extension of epidermis , ep .
, epidermis , muscle .
parenchyma cell , ph .
, pharynx , ph.c .
, pharynx chamber , w. , point of closure of wound .
W Fig. 7.-\#151 ; Regeneration of the posterior end of ulvce in sea-water .
14 days , w. , mouth , m.c. , muscle cell , pa.c .
, parenchyma cell , ph .
, pharynx .
ph.c .
, pharynx chamber , w. , point of closure of wound .
Pressure upon the Regeneration of Gunda ulvse .
9 of parenchyma cells , one .
parenchyma cell forming one differentiated muscle fibre ( fig. 7 ) .
The restoration of the circle of the nerve cords also takes place by parenchyma cells pushing their way into the cut end of the old nerve cords and becoming transformed into nerve cells .
The new gut is formed by the cut ends of the two branches of the old gut fusing together behind the pharynx .
The wound on the pharynx is also healed by the migration of parenchyma cells .
The.new mouth is formed by a perforation appearing between the pharynx chamber and the exterior .
The mouth perforates at a point just anterior to the point of closure of the wound , usually about nine days after section ( fig. 7 , m. and w.\ While the constructive changes described above have been taking place in the region of the wound , in the rest of the animal 's body reductive change has been simultaneously proceeding .
The first system to show degenerative change is the generative system .
The amount of degeneration that takes place is directly proportional to the amount of restoration that is required .
In the present case , where regeneration is being considered after a cut that has removed half the body , reduction proceeds so far that the whole of the generative system is absorbed .
The yolk glands are absorbed first , then the genital glands and secondary sexual organs .
Besides the absorption of the genital system it can be seen on referring to figs. 5 , 1-4 , and 8 , 1-4 , that the growth in size of the posterior end is accompanied by a reduction in size of the anterior end .
This external adjustment is found to apply also to all the internal organs of the animal , i.e. , as the new parts grow larger the old grow smaller until the proper equilibrium is reached .
When these changes have restored the normal proportions of the worm , regulation is complete .
The subsequent increase in size , and in the case under consideration , restoration of the generative system , are phenomena of normal growth ( see Section II , b ) .
It might here be noticed that the reductional changes described above in a regenerating worm fragment are entirely identical with those described in Part II ( a ) of this paper , where the reduction was the result of starving whole animals .
It will be seen later that , when regeneration is inhibited , reduction is inhibited to the same degree .
Absorption of the generative system takes 10 weeks in starving worms ; in animals which have been bisected and are regenerating under starving conditions it takes 5-6 weeks .
In animals which have been bisected and are being fed while regenerating , the genital system is greatly reduced , but never completely absorbed .
Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of Osmotic Fig. 8 .
Median longitudinal sections through worm regenerating in sea-water.\#151 ; 1 .
7 days .
2 .
14 days .
3 .
21 days .
4 .
56 days .
Median longitudinal sections through worm regenerating in ' 100 c.c. sea-water + 20 c.c. 2\#163 ; M NaCl.\#151 ; 5 .
7 days .
6 .
14 days .
7 .
21 days .
8 .
31 days .
V. ^Regeneration under Varying Conditions of Osmotic Pressure .
A number of experiments in regeneration were set up in artificial solutions 4-11 of Table II , in order to see what effect was produced by raising or lowering the osmotic pressure of the medium .
It can be seen that a range of pressure of from 2 to 40 atmospheres was examined .
The results of such experiments show that moving the osmotic pressure in either direction from a definite optimum value just below that of sea-water results in a decrease in the rate of regeneration .
This decrease of rate culminates , at 2 and 40 atmospheres respectively , in complete inhibition of the restorative processes .
Pig .
9 shows a number of worms on the 42nd day of regeneration , which have been taken from different experimental media .
Pressure upon the Regeneration of Gunda ulvse .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; Worms 42 days after section from\#151 ; 1 .
100 c.c. distilled water+50 c.c. sea-water .
2 .
100 c.c. distilled water+ 100 c.c. seawater .
3 .
100 c.c. distilled water + 200 c.c. sea-water .
4 .
Sea-water .
5 .
100 c.c. seawater + 10 c.c. 2^M NaCl .
Table II . .
No. of solution ( see Table I ) .
Osmotic pressure in atmospheres .
Time required .
For healing wound .
For perforation of mouth .
Course of regeneration .
4 2-0 Wounds never clos\#163 ; \#151 ; All pieces die under 21 days .
Both gonads show degeneration .
Gut cells swollen and vacuolated .
5 3'5 8-10 days Mouth never perforates Testes continue functioning for 24 days after section , forming accumulations of sperm .
Gut cells vacuolated .
Regeneration never complete .
6 7-5 .
6-10 days 18 days Testes function for 6 weeks after section .
Disintegration of gonads begins in 8 weeks .
Regeneration complete in 12 weeks .
7 11 -o 6-8 " 14 " Testes only function for a few days after section .
Gonads very reduced in 8 weeks .
8 15*0 5-7 , , 10 " Gut cells always remain normal .
Regeneration complete in 6 weeks .
Secondary sexual organs appear .
9 18-5 3 8 " Regeneration complete in 4-5 weeks .
Secondary sexual organs appear .
10 ( sea-water ) 22 -5 3-5 " 9 jj Regeneration complete in 7 weeks .
No trace of generative system present .
11 29-5 6-9 " 21 " Regeneration takes 8\#151 ; 9 weeks .
Genital system entirely absorbed .
12 33 *5 6-10 " Mouth never perforates Gut cells in these tissues appear shrunken , with very dense proto* plasm .
" Tailless " forms produced .
13 40-5 Wounds never close All pieces die without any regeneration in 21 days .
12 .
Miss D. J. Lloyd .
I Osmotic The decrease in rate of regeneration can be measured proportionately by a consideration of the time taken to reach some definite stage .
Two such points are considered here : ( 1 ) the time taken for the healing of the wound ; ( 2 ) the time taken for the perforation of the new mouth .
These figures are summed up in Table II on p. 11 .
It can be seen that regeneration is most rapid in solution 9 .
This solution consists of 100 c.c. distilled water + 500 c.c. sea-water .
Regeneration in this solution is accompanied by reduction ( absorption of the yolk-glands , etc. ) , but the regenerative processes proceed very rapidly , and , at the moment when the normal form is restored , reduction has not gone so far as to have removed the whole of the genital system .
Under these conditions the secondary sexual apparatus is redeveloped in the new tail .
This also occurs in solution 8 ( 100 c.c. distilled water+200 e.c. sea-water ) .
In more hypotonic solutions , in sea-water and in hypertonic solutions , restoration of the normal form is a much slower process .
In these solutions , the reduction due to regeneration + the reduction due to the longer starvation , make it impossible for the worm to redevelop the secondary sexual organs , even after the normal form has been restored .
In normal sea-water or hypertonic water , the removal of the posterior end of the worm acts as a check on the production of sperm .
Sperm present in the testicles at the time of section remains there , and , though the activity of the spermatocyte cells does not immediately cease , it is greatly diminished , and , as regeneration proceeds ( under starvation conditions ) , the whole generative system is slowly absorbed to feed the growing parts .
In worms regenerating in hypotonic water , the production of sperm continues for some time longer , and the sperm produced leaves the testes , passes down to the cut end of the vas deferens , where , being unable to escape , it collects in sinuses , one on either side .
This condition is shown in fig. 10 .
In figs. 11 and 12 , A and B , are shown camera drawings of gut cells of animals regenerating in hypo- and hypertonic water , and also , for comparison gut cells of normal whole animals .
In the strongly hypotonic solutions the cells are swollen and vacuolated , and the cell boundaries are hard to distinguish .
In the hypertonic solution the cells are shrunken .
This fact suggests that in the one case water has actually been absorbed by the tissues , and in the other case extracted from them .
From this it appears that the epidermis in Gunda must be a highly protective membrane , since whole animals placed in similar media show no such changes .
A histological study of the tailless forms produced at 33*5 atmospheres was made by sectioning the worms at various stages .
These sections show certain peculiarities in the behaviour of the parenchyma cells .
In sea-water after Pressure upon the Regeneration of .
Gunda ulvse .
13 --9 ; \#166 ; m Fig. 10.__Regeneration in 100 c.c. distilled water+50 c.c. sea-water .
43 days ggut .
sp. , sperm , ves .
, vesicle .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; Normal gut cells .
g.c. , gut cell . .
, vacuole .
Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of Osmotic Fig. 12 .
A. \#151 ; Gut cells from worm regenerating in 100 c.c. distilled water + 50 c.c. sea-water .
43 days .
B. \#151 ; Gut cells from worm regenerating in 100 c.c. sea-water+ 20 c.c. 2JM NaCl .
32 days .
g.c. , gut cell .
v.t vacuole .
section , the parenchyma cells congregate in the region of the wound ( see above ) , but in the solution of high osmotic pressure they only travel to the wound very slowly .
The first result of this slow migration appears in the greater length of time required to heal the wound ( 6-10 days as compared with 3-5 days in sea-water ) .
The next point to be noticed is that the parenchyma cells do not collect together at the hind end to form the mass which is subsequently to become the new tail ( figs. 13 and 14 ) .
These tailless forms never develop the perforation for the new mouth .
They develop a thin muscle layer under the new epithelium , but the circuit of the nervous system is not restored .
From the third week after section they develop large vesicular spaces ( see fig. 8 , 7 and 8 , v. ) in the gut , or in the pharynx chamber , after 7-8 weeks these become filled with masses of disintegrating tissue , and the animals subsequently die .
A similar retardation of the movements of the parenchyma cells is found in the strongly hypotonic media .
This checking in the processes of restoration is also to be found to a parallel degree in the processes of reduction .
For instance , in sea-water an anterior half is completely restored in 8 weeks , and during restoration every Pressure upon the Regeneration of Gunda ulvae .
\#166 ; ... ... ... ... ... ii iii Fig. 13.\#151 ; Regeneration in 100 q.c. distilled water+ 50 c.c. sea-water .
15 days .
ph.c.t pharynx chamber , w. , point of closure of wound .
Fig. 14 .
Regeneration in 100 c.c. sea-water+50 c.c. 2\#163 ; M NaCl .
6 days .
pa.c.y parenchyma cell .
ph .
w. , point of closure of pharynx wound , w. , point of closure of wound .
trace of the genital system is absorbed .
In the tailless forms 8 weeks after section it is found that the genital system is not reduced to any great extent .
Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of Osmotic The slight degree to which the reduction processes are carried is reflected in the external form of these pieces , which only suffers very slight changes during the time ( cf. figs. 5 and 15 ) .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; Stages of Regeneration in 100 c.c. sea-water + 20 c.c. 2JM NaCl .
1 .
10 days .
2 .
14 days .
3 .
28 days .
4 .
Side view of 3 .
Many sections were examined for mitotic figures , and a comparison was made between the mitoses found in worms regulating in sea-water and in water with a higher or lower osmotic pressure .
Text-fig .
16 shows the type of mitoses found .
At osmotic pressures of 7'5 and 33 atmospheres the mitoses appear to be a little irregular , but in all cases mitotic figures are so rare .that it would not be justifiable to ascribe a principal role in the failure to regenerate , to any such irregularities .
Fig. 16.\#151 ; Mitotic Figures from the Parenchyma Cells .
1_4 .
From tissue regenerating in sea-water .
5-7 .
From tissue regenerating in 100 c.c. distilled water+ 50 c.c. sea-water .
8-12 .
From tissue regenerating in 100 c.c. seawater + 20 c.c. 2\#163 ; M NaCL Pressure upon the Regeneration of Gunda ulvse .
VI .
Discussion .
The results given in this paper show that for there is a definite value for the osmotic pressure of the surrounding medium , at which regeneration of the hind end occurs most rapidly .
This point lies inside the range of variation of osmotic pressure to which the animals are subjected in their natural environment .
Above or below this point the rate of regeneration diminishes , until finally it is entirely inhibited .
A similar phenomenon has been obtained by Child ( 2 ) in Planaria by adding doses of alcohol , ether , and potassium cyanide to his cultures , or by raising* the temperature to a point just below that which causes the death of the tissues .
Child has ascribed this change of rate of regeneration , with its final production of tailless forms , to the lowering action of the external agent employed upon the " rate of action " of the regenerating fragment as a whole .
In the present case the morphological cause of the reduced rate of regeneration can be localised in the parenchyma cells .
These normally migrate in large numbers to the region of a wound and there build up the new tissues .
When , however , the osmotic pressure of the surrounding medium is removed from the optimum value , this migration is checked and finally inhibited .
In the latter case , the wound never heals , and the fragmeiit ultimately dies .
In the case where the osmotic pressure is just short 'of completely preventing the migration of the cells , the wound slowly closes but no new organs are formed .
This produces the so-called tailless forms .
The swelling that occurs at the hind end in these cases is not due to the formation of tissue but to the development of large cavities in the gut or pharyngeal chamber , or , in hypotonic media , to the absorption of water .
In Planaria maculata , Curtis ( 3 ) describes the development and absorption of the genital system as a regular seasonal change .
G. ulvce , however , is found sexually mature at Plymouth all the year round .
Once it has reached maturity , the genital system is only re-absorbed under conditions Which make it necessary for the animals to use their own tissues as a source of energy .
These conditions are\#151 ; ( 1 ) hunger , ( 2 ) regeneration after a but which has removed a fairly large proportion of the animal 's body .
( Doubtless , after loss of small amounts , some reduction takes place , but not enough to be easily recognised .
) In the regulation of G. ulvce , after are loss of some of its parts , reduction and regeneration go hand in hand , and in some cases where regeneration is inhibited by some external factor , e.g. , high osmotic pressure , reduction is inhibited to the same extent .
As Stockard and others have already pointed out , regenerating parts have a potent influence on the old body .
This fact is again well illustrated in VOL. LXXXV1II.\#151 ; B. c 18 Miss D. J. Lloyd .
Influence of Osmotic the sections shown in fig. 8 .
It can be seen that where a new part is growing , an old part is correspondingly diminishing ( fig. 8 , 1-4 ) .
In cases where there is no formation of new parts ( fig. 8 , 5-8 ) , there is correspondingly no diminution of the old ones .
Thus , when no tail grows out , and where the pharynx also shows no growth , the part anterior to the pharynx remains with unchanged proportions .
The value of the irregular mitoses found in the parenchyma cells under the conditions unfavourable to development remains to be considered .
Under normal conditions regeneration takes place without the parenchyma cells increasing to any great extent in number .
For this reason it seems probable that the failure to restore the ( lost parts under conditions of very high or very low osmotic pressure is not due to failure of the parenchyma cells to divide , but that both checked migration and irregular mitoses are an expression of unfavourable change in the physiological conditions .
This suggestion receives support from the appearance presented by the gut cells , which in strongly hyptonic solutions , are swollen and vacuolar , while in hypertonic solutions they are contracted and dense .
The most favourable conditions for the regeneration of G. are in a mixture of 100 parts of distilled water to 500 of sea-water , and at an osmotic pressure of 18 atmospheres .
Regeneration occurs , though less rapidly , in solutions having an osmotic pressure as low as 7'5 , or as high as 29*5 atmospheres .
Above or below these two points the water-content of the tissues appears to have been altered to such an extent that the cells , notably the parenchyma cells , can no longer perform their normal functions .
Summary .
1 .
G. ulvce is capable of living indefinitely in water having an osmotic pressure of more than 2 and less than 83 atmospheres .
2 .
The rate of regeneration of the posterior end in G. ulvce depends on the osmotic pressure of the medium .
This osmotic pressure has an optimum value for regeneration at 18 atmospheres , i.e. , just below that of sea-water , and limiting values at 5 and 33*5 atmospheres .
3 .
Restoration of lost parts in G. ulvce is brought about entirely by the undifferentiated parenchyma cells which migrate to the region of the wound and build upjthe lost parts .
4 .
For values of the osmotic pressure lying between the optimum and the limiting values , this migration of the parenchyma cells is retarded , and the rate of restoration is retarded to a similar degree .
At the limiting values of the osmotic pressure there is no migration of the parenchyma cells and no restoration of lost parts .
Pressure upon the Regeneration of Gunda ulvse .
19 5 .
Under starvation conditions , G. ulvce undergoes reduction .
This consists in ( 1 ) absorption of the genital system , ( 2 ) general reduction in size .
Both these are brought about by the activity of the parenchyma cells .
6 .
During the process of restoration of lost parts the same reduction processes occur as in starvation .
Where the restoration of lost parts is retarded , e.g. , by raising or lowering the osmotic pressure , reduction is retarded to precisely the same extent .
7 .
In sea-water or hypertonic solutions removal of the posterior half of the body inhibits further production of sperm .
In hypotonic solutions sperm continues to be produced for a varying length of time .
8 .
In strongly hypertonic solution examination of the gut cells shows that these have diminished in size and become more dense .
In strongly hypotonic solutions they have increased in size and become vacuolar .
I should like to take this opportunity of thanking the director and staft of the Plymouth laboratory for the promptness with which they have supplied me with material , and for their unfailing kindness during the whole time I have worked at the laboratory .
I should like also to acknowledge my indebtedness to the Royal Society , the Zoological Society , and the University of Cambridge for the use of their tables at Plymouth .
Finally , I wish to thank the Trustees of the Balfour Fund for a grant which made it possible for me to take up the work in 1912 .
BIBLIOGRAPHY .
1 .
Bardeen , C. R. , " Embryonic and Regenerative Development in Planarians , " * Biol. Bull .
, * vol. 3 , p. 262 .
2 .
Child , C. M. , " Experimental Control of Morphogenesis in the Regulation of Planaria , " 'Biol .
Bull .
, ' vol. 20 ( 1911 ) .
3 .
Curtis , Winterton C. , " The Life History , the Normal Fission , and the Reproductive Organs of Planaria macvlata , " 'Bost .
Soc. Not .
Hist. Proc. , ' vol. 30 , p. 515 ( 1902 ) .
4 .
Flexner , Simon , " Regeneration of the Nervous System of Planaria , " ' Journ. Morphol .
, ' vol. 14 , p. 337 ( 1898 ) .
5 .
Iijima , I. , " Untersuchungen iiber den Bau und die Entwicklungsgeschichte der Siisswasser Dendrocoelen ( Tricladen ) , " ' Zeitschr .
f. Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 40 , p. 359 ( 1884 ) .
6 .
Jordan Lloyd , D. , " The Influence of the Position of the Cut upon the Regeneration of Gunda ulvce , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , p. 355 ( 1914 ) .
7 .
Knudsen , Martin , ' Hydrographical Tables , ' London and Copenhagen , 1901 .
8 .
Kriimmel , Otto , ' Handbuch der Ozeanographie , ' vol. 1 , p. 240 , Stuttgart , 1907 .
9 .
Morgan , T. H. , " Growth and Regeneration in P. , " 'Arch .
Ent .
Mech./ vol. 13 , p. 179 ( 1901 ) .
10 .
Przibram , H. , " Equilibrium of Animal Form , " 'Journ .
Exp. Zool. , ' vol. 5 , p. 259 ( 1907 ) .
20 Sir D. Bruce and others .
G. brevipalpis a 11 .
Schultz , E. , " Aus dem Gebiete der Regeneration bei Turbellarien , " ' Zeit .
f. Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 72 , p. 1 ( 1902 ) .
12 .
------- " Tiber Reduction , " ' Arch. Ent .
Mech. , ' vol. 18 , p. 555 ( 1904 ) . .
13 .
Stevens , N. M. , " A Histological Study of Regeneration in , , and Morgani , " 'Arch .
Ent .
Mech. , ' vol. 24 , p. 350 ( 1907 ) .
14 .
Stockard , C. R. , " Studies in Tissue Growth .
II.\#151 ; On the Rate of Regeneration and the Reaction of the Regenerated Tissue on the Old Body , " 'Journ .
Exp. Zool. , ' vol. 6 , p. 433 ( 1909 ) .
15 .
Stoppenbrink , E. , " Der Einfluss herabgesetzer Ernahrung auf den histologischen Bau der Siisswassertricladen , " ' Zeitschr .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 79 , p. 496 ( 1905 ) .
16 .
Wendt , A. , " Ueber den Bau von Ounda , " 'Arch .
f. Naturgesch .
, * 54 Jahrg .
vol. 1 , p. 252 , Berlin , 1888 .
Glossina brevipalpis as a Carrier of Trypanosome Disease in Nyasaland .
By Surgeon-General Sir David Bruce , C.B. , F.R.S. , A.M.S. ; Major A. E. Hamerton , D.S.O. , and Captain D. P. Watson , R.A.M.C. ; and Lady Bruce , R.R.C. ( Scientific Commission of the Royal Society , Nyasaland , 1912-14.)* ( Received March 25 , \#151 ; Read April 30 , 1914 .
) [ Plate 1 .
] Introduction .
Glossina brevipalpis ( Newstead ) is found at many spots along the west shore of Lake Nyasa .
The nearest point to the Commission 's camp at Kasu where they were at all common was at the mouth of the Lingadzi river ( 13 ' 27 ' S. lat. , 34 ' 19 ' E. long .
) .
This was 50 miles away , but with the aid of a motor-cycle specimens of these flies were brought up to the camp .
It is proposed in this paper to give : ( I ) a short account of the habits of this tsetse fly ; ( II ) the results of the dissection of the flies ; ( III ) the infectivity of the wild flies ; and ( IV ) the result of various transmission experiments .
One of the members of the Commission camped on the Lake-shore from April 26 to May 10 , 1913 , to superintend the catching and sending to the camp of these flies .
He has supplied the following account of their habits:\#151 ; * Major D. Harvey , R.A.M.C. , took part in the work described in this and the four following papers ; but , having left the Commission in September , 1913 , before the reports were drawn up , his name does not appear in the titles .

