An Account of some Books .
I. CERTAINPHILOSOPHICALESSAYE S , andother TRACT S , by the Honorable ROBERT BOIL E , Fellow of the R. Society .
The Second Edition , enlarged .
London ; printed for Henry Herringman in the New Exchange .
A. 1669 .
WE could not but give the Curious Reader notice of this reprinted and in divers places considerably enriched Book ; but chiefly increased by the Addition of a very Philosophical Discourse about the Absolute Rest in Bodies , wherein the Noble Author , with his usual modesty as well as acuteness , delivers his Thoughts concerning the Intestin Motions of the Particles of Quiescent Solids , and in doing so calls the Absolute Rest of Bodies in Question , by undertaking to prove , That some of those Bodies , which we think have their parts most at Rest , are not exempted from having internal Motions in them ; to which proof he Judges 'twill be consequent , that it must be probable , that in other Bodies , whose Solidity is confessed inferior , the component Particles are not in a State of Perfect Rest .
II .
DELMOVIMENTODELLACOMET A , apprsa il mes di Dicembre 1664 .
da PIETROM ARE IAMUTOL I , in Pisa , in 4~ .
THis , and the next following Tract , ( consisting each of a few sheets only ) should sooner have been taken notice of in these Transactions , if they had sooner come to our hands .
The Subject being Curious and weighty , it was thought fit to advertise the Inquisitive Reader , though somewhat late , of what is discoursed upon it by other Learned men , besides those whom we have formerly noted .
This Author then doth principally discourse of the Motion and Place of that Comet , and how its odd Appearances may be salved ; and in regard that in such a Discourse of the Motion of a Body , seen in the Heavens , it is requisite to suppose the Form and Constitution of the Celestial Bodies , and in what manner they make their Revolutions , He thought it requisite , either to choose some or other of the most famous Hypotheses concerning them , or else to endeavour to solve the Phenomenon of this Comet , according to all those Systems : Of which two Tasks he hath chosen the latter ; in the prosecution whereof he seems satisfied , that the Comet of 1664 .
was above the Moon , it having been found without a sensible Parallax ; for the observing of which , he shows an easy way , which needs no Quadrants or Sextants curiously made ; nor a precise taking of the Meridian Altitudes ; nor the Scituation of the Comet in the Zodiac ; nor the noting of the precise time of the Observation ; nor lastly , needs to fear to be prejudiced by the Consideration of the various Refractions ; forasmuch as he works not by the way of taking the several Altitudes from the Horizon , but by observing the Position of the Comet among some neighbouring Fixed Stars : for the doing of which , he saith , he employed only a simple Thread stretch't out by an Arch , to make it evident , whether this Comet had a sensible Parallax , or no. II I. ERASMIBARTHOLINI de COMETIS An. 1664 &amp; 1665.Opusculum ; Ex Observationibus Hafniae habitis adornatum .
Hafniae in 4~ .
THis is the other Tract , we hinted in the next precedent Account ; and in it the Author , having first intimated , That the more narrowly this Subject about Comets hath been search't into , the farther have Intelligent and Perspicacious men receded from the opinion of the Peripateticks concerning them ; he acquaints the Reader , what Instruments he used in making Observations , among which was a Quadrant of 1 1/ 2 foot radius ; what convenience he had as to the place of Observation ; what Observations he made , viz. A. 1664 .
Decemb. 23 .
24 .
25 .
26 .
27 .
28 .
29 .
30 .
31 .
and A. 1665 .
Januar .
1 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
7 .
9 .
12 .
24 .
31 .
and Februar .
7 .
Further , how he found the Longitude and Latitude of this Comet by observing its distances from two Fixed Stars ; and having found those , how thence he found its right Ascensions and its Declinations for every day : Besides , How he found the Motion of the Comet in his Orb , and the Place of Intersection and the Angle of Inclination with the Ecliptic .
To which he adds his Considerations about the Place of the Comet , and the Parallaxes ; vindicating here the Noble Tycho from the Acculation of Ricciolo in Almag .
Novo : Concluding all with an Investigation of the Causes of Comets ; where he examins , Whether Comets be co-eval with the World , or produced anew , and if the latter , How : Insinuating withal , that , though he esteems the latter Comet to be different from the former , yet , admitting the Cartesian Hypothesis , we may without any difficulty maintain , that it was the same with the first .
IV .
SYLVA &amp; POMONA , by JOHN EVELYN Esq. Fellow of the R. SOCIETY .
Reprinted by John Martin and James Allestry in fol. London .
THis is the Second Edition of this Book , very much improved and enlarged .
It was the first that was written and published by the express Order of the R. Society , who thought it fit to begin with a special Solicitation for the good Culture of our own Native Country , that it might be a leading Example to all our Neighbours , and as far as their Instructions are received .
In Sylva our Author provides and directs for sound Timber , and store of the best Fuel in Forests , Woods , and Groves .
Timber is the strength and walls of this Kingdom ; and is serviceable for many Domestic uses , and curious Utensils ; and to advance the Richess and Accommodations , not only of our own Country , but also of all Foreign parts , as far as may mutually oblige each other by Navigation and Commerce .
And together with his Majesties great Example , Pomona hath already encouraged the Plantation of many hundreds of Nurseries , or Orchards in England , which by this time begin to reward the industrious Owners with a salubrious Liquor , perhips more agreeable to our English Temperament , than the Grapes of some Countries do afford ; and , if well chosen , more gentle , and more pleasing to the palate , than many sorts of French Wines without Sugar ; and yet requiring much less labour , less artifice , and fewer hands for the yearly culture .
This Worthy person hath also given us ( under a modest veil ) an Instructive Touch for Vineyards in England ( of which see Numb. 15 p 262 .
) And for the behoof of his own Country hath condescended to furnish us with accurate Translations of the French Gardiner ; and of the best Writers of Architecture , an of the Idea of the perfection of Painting ( of which last see Numb. 39 .
p. 784 .
) Of his own Collections , he hath given us an elegant History of Sculpture , and of Engraving in Copper , and the curious Arts thereunto belonging : In which the most excellent Painters of this Age may see themselves either duly celebrated , or directed for the best , and assisted , or at least encouraged .
And ( besides other Treatises , which are Anonymous , as being of a reserved nature , but are nevertheless entirely for the honor of the King and this Kingdom , and generally for the good of all Men ; ) He hath lately made two considerable Excursions : In one of which Tracts , for a Caution to all future Ages , and to denote the general aptness of Mankind to be deluded and deceived , he hath published a well-grounded History of the Three late famous Impostures ; the first , meerly Casual and innocent , in Padre Ottomanno ; the second , bold and impudent , in Mahomet Bei ; the third , a confident Cheat , in Sabatai Sevi , the Jews Counterfeit Messias : In the other Tract , Public Employment and an Active Life are preferred to Solitude .
Thus He , and other Generous persons , can in the crowd of public business , find , or make leisure to oblige all men ; whilst Morose Schoolmen , and Narrow Critics , make it their main business to outgo Satan in their false Accusations , disingenuous Surmises , and immodest Disturbances of the noblest endeavours and achievements .
But thrice happy were all England , if every where , with united minds and affections we were as heartily inclined , and as active to cultivate this our kind Soil for an Elysium , as this Liberal Author is now busy and preparing for the Press another more August and Noble Work , bearing the Title of Englands Elysium .
This was the Method of the Great Creator : He planted the first Paradise for an Entertainment of Innocent Man ; and introduced the first Lectures of Experimental Philosophy upon Animals and Vegetables .
And again , when Gods peculiar People after the Conquest of their Enemies , were first established in peace and prosperity , their Philosophical Monarch was inspired with the sublimest Wisdom , not only for the Building of a Glorious Temple in the Holy City , but also for the Culture of the Land of Promise with the Plantations of Gardens and Orchards ; and for the Experimental knowledge of all Vegetables .
And thus also , as modern Princes may laudably follow the greatest Examples of all foregoing ages , his Majesty immediately after his Restauration , made it his first work to Recover the Church to its Primitiue Faith and Order : Thence he proceeded , to promote the several Branches of the Ancient Wisdom ; the knowledge both of Nature , by the proper Test of Gods own Works ; and of all Excellent Arts , Medical , Chemical , Mathematical , and Mechanical ; Architecture Naval , Civil and Military , for the stregthening of his Royal Navy , the repairing of his Palaces , and the rebuilding of our Chief City inc incomparably fairer and safer than ever it was : To send out his Fleets , for a special countenance of Trade , and at the same time for a satisfaction to many considerable Philosophical Inquiries in most parts of the World : To strengthen his remotest Dominions ; and to secure and cultivate his American Colonies , for the Silk-trade , and the growth of such beneficial Vegetables , as those several Soils in several distant Climats will bear ; Not intermitting those elegant Ingenuities of beautifying his Coin with the fairest and really Gardian-stamps ; and of storing his Cabinets with the Curiosities and Rarities of Art and Nature , for the encouragement of Sculpture , Picture , and of no small number of Artificial Practices and useful Inventions .
To be short , his Majesty soon gave to all the Kingdom , in St. James 's Park , and Hide Park , in the Approches to his fairest Palaces , and in his Forests , Illustrious Patterns for the best Improvements , and for a copious Variety of all kinds of Amaenities .
Now when our idle Multitudes shall be strongly inured to those innocent and profitable Employments , till all our Hills , which are now bald , shall be sheltered with the Chesnut , the Beech , the Pine , Box , Maple , and the Royal Oak ; and all our Valleys adorned with the fruitful Knots of Cyrus , and like the golden Gardens of Alcinous ; then shall we have fair grounds to hope for the blessings of Peace and Plenty , and the Juncture of found and useful Philosophy with Christian Charity ; and of true Religion and Piety with cheerful Loyalty ; and then we shall truly deserve the Old Style of the Fortunate Islands , and the Gardens of Hesperides .

