414 The Selective Absorption of Ketones .
By Prof. George Gerald Henderson , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , and Isidor MorrisHeilbron , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Dr. G. T. Beilby , F.R.S. Received October 23 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1913 .
) The absorption of light by carbon compounds is either continuous or selective , although not infrequently both kinds of absorption are found to occur together .
In the visible and ultra-violet portions of the spectrum the absorption is decidedly a constitutive property of the compound ; apparently the only additive relation is the effect of increasing the mass of the molecule , as , for instance , in homologous series , when displacement of the absorption band towards the red accompanies increase in the molecular weights .
Hartley 's pioneer work on absorption led him to recognise clearly the dynamic nature of this property , and to arrive at the conclusion that it is caused by the vibrations of sub-molecular particles synchronising with those of the incident waves of light .
Support is lent to this conclusion by the observation that the absorption and emission spectra of simple substances are identical .
As regards the nature of the particles to whose vibrations selective absorption is due , Hartley originally expressed the view that these must be atoms , or groups of atoms .
More recent investigations confirm this opinion so far as the infra-red region is concerned ; but , on the other hand , according to Drude 's work on the electronic theory of dispersion and absorption , the particles whose oscillations cause selective absorption in the visible and ultra-violet regions are sub-atomic and probably correspond to .
the valency electrons .
If this be so , the relations between the absorption and the constitution of carbon compounds must be sought in the dynamic state of the valencies of the absorbing group of atoms .
As a general rule carbon compounds which exhibit selective absorption belong to the cyclic class , whilst aliphatic compounds show merely a weak general absorption .
This rule , however , is not without exceptions , for it is now known that many aliphatic ketones , as well as their derivatives , which contain the \#151 ; CH2\#151 ; CO\#151 ; or the \#151 ; CO\#151 ; CO\#151 ; group absorb selectively in the visible or the ultra-violet region .
Some at least of these compounds are capable of existing in tautomeric modifications , namely a keto form R.CH2.CO .
R ' and an enol form R.CH : C(OH).R ' , and it has been suggested that the absorption of these compounds is due to some intramolecular vibration which occurs when one tautomeric form changes into the other .
The Selective Absorption of Ketones .
It is highly improbable that the oscillation of the labile hydrogen atom between the carbon and the oxygen atoms , R.CH2.CO .
R ' ^ R.CH : C(OH).R ' , is the immediate cause of the vibration , because the oscillation frequency of the absorption band is not materially changed when that hydrogen atom is replaced by a metallic atom of very much greater mass .
According to the electronic theory the linkage between the atoms of a compound is formed by the migration of an electron , or a group of electrons , from one atom to the other , and a change of linkage must be accompanied by a movement of these valency electrons .
Hence it is concluded that the absorption of such ketones must be due to the electronic disturbance which results from the change of one tautomeric form to the other .
The authors have studied the absorption spectra of a number of compounds containing the \#151 ; CH2\#151 ; CO\#151 ; or the \#151 ; CO\#151 ; CO\#151 ; group , as well as of such derivatives as their semicarbazones , and are unable , for several reasons , to accept the view that the electronic disturbances which , doubtless , are the primary cause of absorption are the result of any tautomeric change .
Thus the aliphatic ketones of the type R.CO .
R ' exhibit selective absorption , and yet it has been shown by a strictly chemical method that these compounds are entirely ketonic in structure , no trace of an enol form being perceptible even in presence of alkali .
Again , ethyl acetoacetate exists in a keto form , CH3.C0.CH2.C02Rt , and an enol form , CH3.C(0H):CH .
C02Et ; neither form of itself exhibits selective absorption , but addition of alkali to each has the effect of producing a banded spectrum ; yet it has been proved that the characteristic absorption band is entirely independent of tautomeric keto-enol oscillation .
Again , the authors ' results show that the oscillations which cause the selective absorption exhibited by the aliphatic ketones must be of the same type in each of these compounds , since each gives the same band , and consequently the suggested relationship between selective absorption and the activity of the carbonyl group in ketones induced by a keto-enol change cannot exist .
The view has been advanced that in ketones the intramolecular vibration takes place primarily within the carbonyl group , which is to be regarded as the oscillation centre of those compounds .
We hold that this is a correct view , and that if the residual valency of the carbonyl group is taken into account it is possible to form a conception of a type of intramolecular oscillation which may be the cause of the selective absorption exhibited by ketones and their derivatives .
Gebhardt 's theory of valency postulates for each atom a maximum affinity , which may or may not be fully called into play when atomic linkage takes place .
Hence , since the total affinity of each atom remains constant , if for Prof. G. G. Henderson and Dr. I. M. Heilbron .
any reason the bond between linked atoms is weakened residual affinity must appear on each as a free partial or " ionised " valency .
Such free partial valencies , which are capable of acting as subsidiary affinity forces , are most likely to appear on atoms linked by a double bond ; for example , the atoms of the carbonyl group ( \gt ; 0=0 ) ; or else may first be called into existence by other influences .
Accepting these ideas in modified form , we suggest , firstly , that selective absorption in ketones is caused by intramolecular vibrations , due to the alternate formation and breaking down of unstable ring systems , and , secondly , that the momentary formation of those ring systems is effected through the agency of free partial valencies , which , under certain conditions , make their appearance on the atoms of the compound .
In order to illustrate this suggestion , the case of acetone , CH3.CO .
CH3 , may be considered .
According to our view , it is possible for free partial valencies to appear on the carbon and the oxygen atom of the carbonyl group of this compound , because the bond between those atoms will be weakened by the attractive influence of a hydrogen atom on the oxygen atom .
The momentary linkage , through a partial valency , of this hydrogen atom to the oxygen atom will weaken the bond between the former and the carbon atom to which it is linked , and a free partial valency will appear on this carbon atom also .
Fig. 1 , in which , as in the other figures , partial valencies are indicated by dotted lines , represents this phase\#151 ; CH3\#151 ; C-----CH2 CH3\#151 ; Ch^CH2 0 ... .H OH Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
The free partial valencies on the carbon atoms will tend to unite , but , we suppose , can only do so by drawing upon the affinity of the oxygen and hydrogen atoms , with the result that the partial linkage between them will be broken down and the phase represented in fig. 2 will be formed .
This phase also will only have a momentary existence , because wdienever the free partial valencies on the carbon atoms have neutralised each other , the first phase will be reproduced .
In short , there will be an intramolecular oscillation between the two phases , and it is to the electronic disturbances which accompany this oscillation that , we believe , the selective absorption of acetone is to be attributed .
According to this view precisely similar oscillations should take place The Selective Absorption of Ketones .
within the molecules of the homologues of acetone , and therefore each of these ketones should exhibit essentially the same absorption curve as acetone .
Our experiments prove that this is actually the case .
Moreover , we have found that the semicarbazones of acetone and its homologues , ^3\gt ; C=dST .
NH.CO .
NH2 , exhibit only general absorption , and this result CH3 also is indicated by our hypothesis , for although in these compounds there is a double linkage between a carbon and a nitrogen atom , yet the attraction between hydrogen and nitrogen is not sufficiently strong to cause the appearance of free partial valencies , hence the resulting intramolecular vibrations do not occur .
The idea of intramolecular oscillations arising from momentary ring formation can be extended to other groups of ketones , of which diacetyl , CH3.CO .
CO.CH3 , and acetyl acetone , CH3.CO .
CH2.CO .
CH3 , may be taken as examples .
The former exhibits an absorption band similar in kind to that of acetone , but considerably displaced towards the red end of the spectrum .
In this case we suppose that a double oscillation of the same type as that of acetone occurs ( figs. 3 and 4)\#151 ; h2c- -c 0- .ch2 H2C ^ .
C C CH H 6 0 Fig. 3 .
H H- ... b 6- Fig. 4 .
.H while , considering the position of the band , it is also possible that an additional oscillation arising from the union and disruption of the free partial valencies of the carbon atoms of the carbonyl groups may also take place ( figs. 4 and 5)\#151 ; h2c\#151 ; c\#151 ; c\#151 ; ch2 h2c----C^IC\#151 ; ch2 H ... .6 0 ... .H H 0 0 H .Fig .
4 .
Fig. 5 .
The absorption band of acetyl acetone is produced in quite different concentration from that of any of the simple ketones , and therefore in all probability must be caused by a somewhat different type of intramolecular vibration .
Bearing in mind that acetyl acetone exists chiefly in the enol VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; A. 2 K Dr. Laurie and Messrs. McLintock and Miles .
form , and that there is evidence that the intramolecular vibrations are not due to tautomeric change , we suppose that , whilst the oscillations are in this case also due to the ultimate formation and breaking down of an unstable intramolecular ring system , the ring is different in type from that assumed to be found in the simple ketones , and that the oscillations take place between the phases represented in figs. 6 and 7 .
o H ^-c\ .** .C-CH , CH-C 3 3 C-CH .
.* .
H K **H Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
The examples quoted will , we hope , serve to make our suggestions regarding the cause of selective absorption in ketones sufficiently clear .
It remains to be added that further work is in progress which is intended to test the validity of these suggestions .
Egyptian Blue .
By A. P. Laurie , D.Sc .
, F.R.S.E. , W. F. P. McLintock , B.Sc. , and F. D. Miles , B.Sc. , A.B.C.S. ( Communicated by Sir A. H. Church , K.C.Y.O. , F.R.S. Received October 29 , \#151 ; Read December 4 , 1913 .
) The artificial blue pigment used in Egypt from the IVth Dynasty and also used widely during the time of the Roman Empire has been investigated by many chemists , including Sir Humphry Davy , * Vauquelin , f H. de Fontenay , * Darcet , F. Fouqu6 , S and Dr. W. J. Russell , F.R.S. , but the exact nature of the compound and the manner of its formation do not yet seem to have been finally decided .
According to Vitruvius , the blue was made by heating together a mixture of copper filings , sand , and soda in a furnace .
A great deal of information * " On Colours in Use by the Ancients , " ' Phil. Trans. , " 1815 .
t ' Passalacqua 's Catalogue,5 p. 239 .
t ' Annals de Chimie,5 serie 5 , vol. 2 , p. 193 .
S ' Bull .
Soc. des Mines de France , vol. 12 , p. 36 .

