1892 .
] Specimens of Rock exposed to High Temperatures .
395 the corresponding results obtained with lead-zinc-silver alloys shown in fig. 8 , these lines clearly indicate the effects due to the formation of AgZn5 and Ag4Zn5 ; the formation of the first leading to a marked bulge inwards on both sides of the curve at the lowest part ; and.that of the second to an outward bulge somewhat higher up in the left-hand branch , as compared with the dotted line ab connecting the upper part of the curve with the point b on the base line , representing the alloy of bismuth and zinc formed in the absence of " solvent " metal .
The points marked A , B , and C represent certain mixtures examined that did not separate into two different alloys , i.e. , that formed " real " alloys at 750 ' .
Leaving out of sight the lower bulges inwards and outwards , due to formation of AgZn5 and Ag4Zn5 , it is evident that the critical curve for bismuth-zinc-silver lies inside that for lead-zinc-silver , just as that for bismuth-zinc-tin lies inside that for lead-zinc-tin .
Further , the curve for bismuth-zinc-silver lies outside that for bismuth-zinc-tin just as the curve for lead-zinc-silver lies outside that for lead-zinc-tin .
With silver as " solvent " metal the limiting point lies to the left of the central line of the triangle ( bismuth or lead side ) ; whilst with tin as solvent metal it lies to the right ( zinc side ) .
In the first case the ties uniformly slope downwards to the left , and in the second , to the right so far as the upper ones are concerned ; although a slope to the left is observed with the lower ones for the lead-zinc-tin alloys , suggesting the existence of a tendency to form a definite compound of lead and tin ( possibly SnPbs ) , no analogous tendency being noticeable with bismuth and tin .
The author has much pleasure in acknowledging the assistance afforded him by Mr. Sydney Joyoe in carrying out the further experiments above described .
IV .
" Note on some Specimens of Rock which have been exposed to High Temperatures .
" By Professor T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 18 , 1891 .
The effects of raising several varieties of rock to temperatures which , though high , in some cases were below those required to produce fusion were described to the Royal Society by Mr , Rutley in 1886.* The following notes may be useful as a continuation of a subject which is not without interest owing to its bearing on natural processes .
Some time since , Mr. J. Postlethwaite , F.G.S. , of Keswick , kindly * 6 Roy , Soc. Proc./ toL 40 , p. 430 .
396 Prof. T. Gr .
Bonney .
On Specimens of Rock [ Jan. 28 , presented me with two " vitrified " specimens of the so-called quartz-felsite of St. John 's Yale , together with some fragments of the ordinary rock .
All had been obtained from the qnarry near Threl-keld .
The vitrified specimens , as he informed me , " had been thrown with some fnel into the fire of the engine which propels the machinery by which the felsite is crushed for road-metal .
" They had been picked out from amongst the engine-slag , and had been given to him by Mr. B , .
Humphreys , the late foreman of the quarry .
Mr. Postle-thwaite subsequently , on enquiry , at my request , was told that the temperature of the fire would probably be not less than that of a large locomotive ( the engine is 70-horse power ) , in the hottest part of which pig-iron melts .
So that these specimens may have been raised to a temperature of about 2000 ' E.* The rock is intrusive in Skiddaw slate , fragments of which it includes , and which it slightly alters near the junction .
It is so well known to geologists that we may refer for most particulars to the Survey map and the memoir , f in which are given a brief description ( p. 33 ) and a small figure of the microscopic structure ( Plate I , fig. 5 ) .
The rock is a somewhat porphyritic micro-granite ; the matrix is holocrystalline , consisting chiefly of small grains of felspar and quartz .
The former are usually rather too much decomposed to admit of the species being determined ; as a rule , they appear to have consolidated before the quartz , since they are rectilinear ( nearly square ) in outline , the other mineral filling the interspaces .
The quartz contains several minute fluid cavities , with relatively small bubbles , and an occasional microlith or belonite , so small that any attempt to determine it would be a waste of time .
A fair number of mica flakes , which sometimes run to a larger size , are also present .
Of these , the smaller occasionally appear to be moulded to the felspars .
Evidently they once belonged to the biotite group , but are now replaced , as is very common , by a pale-greenish , slightly dichroic , secondary mineral\#151 ; a hydrous mica , or possibly a chlorite .
There are sparse granules of iron oxide and of ( ?
) impure sphene .
In this ground-mass are scattered larger felspar crystals , also more or less decomposed , in which sometimes the striping of plagioclase can still be distinguished , but at others the crystal is occupied entirely by a minute fibrous or filmy secondary product , affording * Dana , ' Characteristics of Volcanoes/ p. 144 , considers that the temperature of molten basalt , such as that of Eilauea , is from 2000 ' to 2500 ' F. For complete fusion of such a rock as the St. John 's Vale quartz-felsite a higher temperature would be required than in the case of basalt , but , as the Hawaiian lava is very liquid , and some basic rocks , when still melted , are below 2000 ' , perhaps the latter of these temperatures might be sufficient .
f ' Mem. Geol .
Survey/ Lake District ( by J. C. Ward ) , p. 8 .
See also a paper by the Bame author , * Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Jl./ vol. 32 , pp. 12 , 22 , \amp ; c. 1892 .
] which have been exposed to High Temperatures .
397 rather brilliant tints with the crossed nicols .
The crystals are occasionally composite , some are fairly idiomorphic , others appear to have suffered more or less external corrosion .
There are besides some grains of quartz ( also affected by the action of the magma ) which contain fluid cavities with a rather stream-like arrangement .
They are similar to , but generally larger than , those in the ground-mass .
Both minerals occasionally enclose microliths , among them , I think , zircon .
Besides the mica , we find one or two rather tuffed groups of a prismatic mineral , which exhibits a fairly marked dicbroism , pale-brown to bluish-green , at first sight not unlike tourmaline .
As , however , the extinction certainly is oblique , though the angle is not large , this mineral is no doubt a hornblende , and probably of secondary origin .
The account may be completed by quoting the following bulk analysis of the rock , given by Mr. Ward ( ' Greol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , ' vol. 32 , p. 22 ) :\#151 ; .
Si03 = 67*180 AI2O3 = 16-650 Fe203 = 0*559 FeO = 2151 CaO = 2-352 MgO 5SS 1-549 k2o = 2-914 Na20 == 4-032 P 2O5 \#151 ; \#151 ; 0-179 S03 = trace co2 = 0-885 Loss on ignition = 1-549 100-000 The vitrified specimens are coated externally with a pellicle of dark-brown glass ; the surface of one being rather scoriaceous , and | " pitted " with cavities full one-third of an inch in diameter ; that is , the ordinary surface of broken f else tone ( for I presume this to be the I outside of a fragment ) is replaced by that of a vesicular slag .
Internally many minute cavities , from the size of a small pin-head downwards , have been developed ; the rock has assumed a darker j \amp ; my colour , in which the white porphyritic crystals of felspar stand out more distinctly than before ; * and it has a more scoriaceous 1 aspect .
On examining the slides cut from , the partially melted rock , two i vi In the specimens of unaltered rock the larger crystals of felspar are of a yellowish tint$ the smaller , however , are white , but less distinct , owing to the pale gray matrix .
VOL. L. 2 E 398 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On Specimens of Bock [ Jan. 28 , changes are obvious at a glance\#151 ; the development of a number of vacuoles , * and the presence of a considerable amount of brown glass .
The former are usually spherical , or nearly so , with well-defined , " clean-cut " edges .
The smaller of them are often lined , perhaps in some cases partly filled , with opacite , and are thus rendered more or less opaque .
In some cases , very tiny clear crystallites are interspersed among the blackest dust .
The ground-mass of the rock consists of somewhat rounded , or sub-angular , grains of a clear mineral set in a base of light-brown glass .
Of these , the majority unquestionably represent the quartz of the original ground-mass , but I think that some are felspar .
Most of the mica has also vanished , though here and there a small remnant may be detected .
The cavities in these quartz grains appear to me to be less numerous but a little larger than before .
Often they are seemingly empty , but in some the bubbles still remain apparently without any change .
The larger quartzes of the unaltered rock* now appear as grains which have a rather irregular outline , and are much cracked .
Here also the cavities seem to be reduced in number , but not to have increased in size .
The larger felspars have disappeared ; but their position , on closer examination , can be identified by irregular patches of dirty glass , in which are very numerous vacuoles ; these generally are rather small in size , and coated with dark dust .
In parts of the glass minute fibres may be observed , which , however , do not act on polarised light ; in others a tiny patch or spot is feebly doubly-refracting .
In other parts ( especially , I think , where the vacuoles are larger , but less numerous ) the glass is a deep-brown , barely translucent , or even opaque .
Here and there , in the glass generally , and near the edges of included grains , groups of minute vermicular cavities appear , and a few microliths occur in the slide , which are so small that it would not be safe to offer an opinion as to their nature or age .
Practically , the effect of the heating has been to melt down the felspathic and the micaceous constituents , without very materially affecting the quartz , and to render the mass vesicular .
At Les Talbots , in Guernsey , brick is made of a material which is mainly , if not wholly , disintegrated granite .
An over-burnt specimen which I have examined is a brown slaggy glass , full of mineral fragments . !
These , under the microscope , are seen to be chiefly quartz and felspar .
The grains of the former are traversed by numerous cracks , and the pieces appear to have been sometimes displaced , but to be otherwise unaffected .
Those of felspar also are cracked .
Numerous vesicles have formed : the majority very small , but some are easily * These , it will be remembered , were developed in the experiments described by Mr. Rutley , both in a pitchstone from Arran and an obsidian from Montana .
t The specimen was collected by the Kev .
E. Hill , F.G-.S , In 1888 he took me to the locality .
1892 .
] which have been exposed to High .
399 seen with a low power ; these are more or less coated with opacite , and set in a glass variable in character ; in parts it is rather deep-brown , in others fairly clear , almost colourless , but crowded either with very minute and rather filmy microliths or with pale-coloured belonites and granules of opacite ( the last being sometimes in more considerable quantities than one would have expected ) ; now and then it is simply a brown glass .
In one fragment with multiple twinning the lines indicating the composition faces can be traced in parts which have ceased to act on polarised light .
In some fragments , mainly vitrified , spots occasionally may be observed which continue to be doubly refracting , though rather feebly , appearing like faint white clouds on a dark background .
The ground-mass is studded with minute fragments of quartz , perhaps with some felspar , set in a glass full of cavities , the smaller being lined with opacite , as in the case of the last-described rock.* Nearly forty years since , an attempt was made by Messrs. Chance , of Birmingham , to utilise basalt for various purposes , by melting it and then running it into moulds , pouring it out in sheets , \amp ; c. Reference has often been made to these experiments , but , so far as I am aware , no detailed account was published , nor has any connected study been made of the results.t It may be , therefore , of interest to record the structure of some specimens which I have examined .
Two of these were given to me a short time since by J. T. Chance , Esq. One of them is a large fragment , evidently part of a block which has been cast in a mould .
It was labelled , " melted 1851 to 1854 , devitri-fied .
'J On the surface which was in contact with the mould is a film of deep-brown glaze , like that of an over-burnt Staffordshire " blue-brick .
" The rock is dark , almost black , with a faint purple tinge ?
generally compact , exhibiting slight traces of a crystalline structure in one part .
In it are a fair number of small cavities , more or less spherical , and a few of rather large size , towards the exterior , very irregular in shape .
On microscopic examination the following constituents are observed:\#151 ; ( 1 ) magnetite , very abundant in minute grains , which , however , evidently are often cubes or octahedra ; ( 2 ) very numerous microlithic prisms , ranging up to about 0*002 inch in * Mica should be present , but I only find two flakes , and these are so much altered as to be barely recognisable , having lost their characteristic dichroisin , and looking like bundles of yellowish fibres .
t They are referred to for comparative purposes by Messrs. Judd and Cole in their important paper on the Basalt-glass ( tachylyte ) of the Western Isles of fcicot-land ( 'Geol .
8oc .
Quart .
Jl .
, ' vol. 39 , p. 444 ) ; also by Mr. Waller , 'Midland Naturalist , ' vol. 8 ( 1885 ) , p. 261 .
+ l'rom ' Ure 's Dictionary of Arts , ' \amp ; c. , s.v. " Basalt , " it would appear almost certain that this specimen was " devitrified " by slow cooling , obtained by running the molten material into moulds of sand contained in iron boxes , raised to a red heat .
Prof. T. G. Bonney .
On Specimens of Rock [ Jan. 28 , length ; * ( 3 ) thin microliths of felspar , not seldom about 0 01 inch long , sometimes as much as 002 inch .
These , from measurement of the extinction angles , may be referred , at any rate in many cases , to labradorite .
They may be called skeleton crystals , for not unfre-quently the edges are penetrated by microliths of the other minerals , or they enclose a sort of thin bar composed of them ; in some cases the outline of the latter is a very acute-angled triangle , and a few microliths ( usually of the augite ) are scattered in advance of the apex along a line in the crystal .
These crystals have a tendency to ri " Devitrified " basalt , showing skeletal crystals of felspar in a ground-mass full of crystallites of the same , x 33 .
bifurcate , and to form slightly divergent groups , as shown in the illustration.f The magnetite , also , is often grouped along lines which run at right angles , one to another , as figured by VogelsangJ and by Zirkel .
S The ground-mass among the skeletal crystals consists of a confused aggregate of the same constituents , but of smaller size , so that they cannot be readily distinguished with powers below a one-eighth objective .
It is difficult to be quite certain , but I think that no glass remains .
The supposed augite is sometimes slightly vermicular in form .
The felspar appears to have consolidated last , and the same , I think , was the case with the larger skeleton crystals , though the mass when they formed must have been sufficiently plastic to allow these to be developed in definite directions for some distance .
Mr. Teall 's figure|| 'f the Cleveland dyke , from near Preston , presents a general * It is difficult to determine their exact nature , but I have little hesitation in identifying them with augite .
f A somewhat similar , but more curved and variable , grouping in the case of augite is described by E. S. Dana in a compact basalt from Mount Loa , Sandwich Islands.\#151 ; J. D. Dana , ' Characteristics of Volcanoes , ' p. 320 , \amp ; c. I In a basalt from near North Berwick ( 'Die Krystalliten/ Plate XIII , fig* 0* S ' Basaltgesteine , ' fig. 54 .
|| * Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Jl .
, ' vol. 40 , Plate 12 , fig. 4 .
1892 .
] which have been exposed to High Temperatures .
401 resemblance to the subject of our description , except that in it the crystals are longer , thinner , * and differently grouped , and a slightly-curved arrangement is perceptible in the ground-mass .
The second specimen is a large fragment of a slab of black glass , about one-third of an inch thick .
In a thin slice this appears , on microscopic examination , to be a brown glass , which becomes quite opaque in a narrow zonef near each edge , but in the intermediate part varies from a light-brown to a rather rich umber-brown , each tint being slightly granulated .
It exhibits a fluidal structure , the stripes in one part being bent into a fold .
The use of high powers brings out specks of opacite , but fails to resolve the glass , so that obviously the colouring matter is very finely distributed .
A third slide , cut from a specimen given to me by Professor Judd , shows well-defined spherulitesj ( deep-brown ) in a glass ( pale-brown , almost buff ) .
In the centre of some of these spherulites is a cruciform group consisting of aggregated granules of opacite or ferrite , from which radiate similar but thinner bands , interspersed with clearer fibres , which also have a tendency to group themselves crosswise , rather than to diverge in all directions .
These fibres seem to have a very faint depolarising influence , but they are so small and still so discoloured as to be unfit for examination^ These fibrous structures can generally be traced to the edge of the spherulite , but the dark lines , by which alone it is to be recognised , become so thin that the outer part , with low powers , appears commonly to be structureless .
A fourth specimen in the museum at University College is labelled " Melted Rowley Basalt , cooled in 13 days ; from upper surface .
Eagle Foundry , Birmingham , February , 1836 , " |j This is a black glass , with a slightly irregular , sub-conchoidal fracture , rather vesicular in one part , and opposite to this bearing apparently the impression of a mould .
Under the microscope , it is a clear glass of a warm-| brown colour , by no means dark .
It contains a few minute cavities and granules of opacite ; there are some larger vacuoles , circular in | section , from 0'01 inch to 0 05 inch in diameter , and a few circular spots , about the same size , slightly grayer and more granular than the rest of the rock ; also one small portion of a deeper brown glass * Though occasionally one more " stumpy " may be seen .
1 " Mr. K utley observed that an opaque zone occurred in a specimen of vitrified basalt where it joined a fragment of unmelted basalt , which had been dropped into the crucible after this had been removed from the flame .
t Mr. Rutley observed a rudely spherulitic structure in a slowly cooled specimen 3 of melted basalt ( Plate Y , fig. 4 ) .
S In the immediate neighbourhood of the central crosses they seem to enclose ferrite granules , arranged along lines with very short cross-pieces .
II The date is as printed , but , as each label bears the same signature , William awkes , " it may be a clerical error for 1856 .
402 Specimens of Rock exposed to High Temperatures .
[ Jan. 28 , with a paler border , something like a fleur-de-lys in shape .
But on the whole the glass is remarkably uniform and free from microlithic enclosures of appreciable size .
A fifth specimen consists of a number of small black glassy frag , ments labelled " Melted Rowley Basalt , cooled in water .
Eagle Foundry , Birmingham , February , 1858 .
" This material is not suited for slicing , so I have had some of it pounded and have examined the powder .
This shows the rock to be a glass which breaks into rather flat sharp-edged chips with a clean somewhat conchoidal fracture ; in colour a translucent umber-brown , not dark in the thicker parts of the fragments , and a very faint olive-brown , almost colourless , in the thinner .
One or two of the larger chips give slight indications of a fluidal structure , and contain , rarely , a minute cavity or a granule or two of opacite .
All the basalt on which Messrs. Chance experimented came , I believe , from the well-known mass near Rowley Regis , * which has been often described .
The natural rock is usually fairly coarsely crystalline ; but I happen to possess specimens of an unusually glassy variety , collected by myself nearly twenty years since , from a pit which was then being opened on the northern side of the hill , near some collieries , which , as I was told , were called the California pits , the excavation being evidently almost at the base of the basalt .
These specimens , macroscopically , are compact dark magma-basalts , with rather smooth sub-conchoidal fracture , onef slightly more compact than the other .
Under the microscope we see in both , but more commonly in the less compact , sparse grains of serpentinised olivine and crystals of plagioclase , each about O'003 inch long , together with grains of iron oxide ( magnetite , or perhaps in some cases ilmenite ) scattered in a colourless matrix which is thickly studded with smaller granules of iron oxide , and tiny , rather irregularly formed prisms of almost colourless augite , among which the presence of lath-like microliths of felspar is suggested .
On applying polarised light ( with a magnification of about 50 diameters ) much of the clear part seems not to produce any depolarising effect , though obviously felspar microliths are frequently present in it ; but with about 150 diameters very faint bands of gray light make their appearance \#151 ; most clearly in the coarser-grained specimen : in the other , even when a quartz plate is used , no difference of tint can be seen in some parts , either as the stage is rotated , or by comparison of the edge of the slice with the coloured field .
The indefinite , almost ghost-lik0 # See Allport , ' Q-eol .
Soc. Quart .
Jl .
, ' vol. 30 , p. 548 .
Mr. Rutley described specimens of melted basalt from the G-iant 's Causeway , and from Kilauea and Mokua Weo-Weo , in the Hawaiian Islands .
t The first obtained , for I visited the quarry a year or two afterwards , when it had been considerably enlarged .
Presents .
1892 .
] aspect of the crystallites ( where they are seen ) does not appear to proceed from a crowding of minute microliths ( for a crystallite may sometimes be larger than one of the augite granules ) , but from its power to depolarise being weak , as if its molecular condition were only slightly anisotropic .
It is , therefore , possible that the rock is in the act of passing rather than has actually passed from a glassy condition , though it is not truly a tachylite .
On comparing the results of artificial processes , described above , with rocks which have solidified from natural fusion , we observe ( 1 ) that while quartz and felspar crystals in acid rocks , after having formed , frequently appear to have been partially melted down , the quartzes , as a rule , are not cracked , the inner parts of the felspars are not locally converted into glass .
The exterior only as when a soluble substance is acted on by a fluid\#151 ; appears to have been affected ; ( 2 ) that , in the case of the basic rocks artificially melted , the glassy part is a true tachylite , but the structure of the devitrified specimen , with its peculiar skeletal crystals of felspar and magnetite and absence of well-defined augite , is unusual in nature.* It is , however , as I know from specimens in my own collection , and as may be seen from Vogelsang 's book , rather characteristic of slags and glasses .
This appears to be confirmatory of the view commonly entertained that an igneous rock is not liquefied by the action of heat alone , but that water is a contributing agent , and is always present in the magma ; further that the formation of a glass in the process of cooling is facilitated by the escape of the water , which may explain the comparative rarity of tachylites in nature , and the fact that when they do occui , they are very seldom more than " selvages " to masses of basalt .
Presents , January 28 , 1892 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
Vol. XI .
No. 94 .
4to .
Baltimore 1891 ; Studies in Historical and Political Science .
Series 10 .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1890 .
The University .
Berne:\#151 ; Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen .
1890 .
8vo .
Bern 1891 .
The Soc^ety* Society Helvetique des Sciences Naturelles .
Nouveaux ' Memoires .
Vol. 30 , livr .
2 .
Vol. 31 .
4to .
Zurich 1890 ; Acts .
Davos 1890 .
Compte-Rendu , 1889\#151 ; 90 .
8vo .
Davos 1891 ; Count Rendu des Travaux .
Davos 1890 .
8vo .
Geneve 1890 .
The Society .
* I find a slight approach to it in some vesicular basalts , e.g. , one or two from the Sandwich Islands .
See also the figures in Messrs. Judd and Cole 's paper on Scotch Basalt-glass , loc. tit .
, Plates XIII and XIV .

