]\gt ; Mr. W. B. Hardy .
[ Mar. 18 , one exterior .
In the same way there will be in the former case one interior two exterior layers , and in the latter an exterior layer and an interior mass .
When all the layers have a thickness exceeding twice the range of action of any molecules present in the layers , the sum of the tension of the layers and the electric density at the interfaces will be constant and independent a variation in thickness of any or all the layers .
When the thickness of all or of any one layer is less than this magnitude the tension and the electric density vary , and may be considered functions of the thickness .
It of importance , therefore , first of all to determine whether the range of molecular action is a fixed value or whether it is dependent upon the chemical nature of the molecules concerned .
The question is considered in the next paper .
The Tension of Composite Fluiol Surfaces and the Stability of Films of Fluid .
By W. B. , F.R.S. ( Received March 13 , \mdash ; Read May 16 , 1912 .
) The tension of a composite surface composed of a fully separated layer one fluid ( say oil ) spread over a mass of another fluid ( say water ) is given by the equation , ( 1 ) where A and denote respectively the oil layer ( exterior layer ) and the water ( interior mass ) .
If be the depth of the exterior layer , then , for a given temperature the quantity will reach a constant value when is either twice the range of action of the oil molecules on each other , or the sum of two values , namely , the range of action of oil molecuIes on each other , and of the oil molecules on the water molecules .
Let be the lowest value of for which is constant : is equal to the greater of two quantities , the range of action of the molecules of oil , or the mean of this value plus the range of action of these molecules upon the molecules of water .
The attractive force between two molecules in the theory of capillarity is a force which decreases rapidly as the distance between the molecules increases .
Young assumed the force to be negative , that is to say , 1912 .
] The Tension of Composite Fluid Surfaces , etc. repulsion , over a very small distance , positive beyond this distance , and constant until it vanished at a distance large in relation to the depth of the zone of repulsion , but very small relatively to distances directly appreciable by our senses .
Maxwell assumed the force to vary inversely with the fifth power of the distance .
Whatever the form of the function may be , that which is measured when tension is taken as an index of the range is not necessarily the absolute limit of the field of force about a moJecule , but the limit of its sensible action .
It can be proved that , ( 2 ) the term being the work ained per unit area when a surface of is allowed to approach normally a surface of The full ession for the tension of a double surface is therefore .
( 3 ) This expression , and the equation , are the values of for the limits and respectively , and it should be possible to pass from one to the other without a break by gradual increments of the fluid A. For all thicknesses of is constant , therefore it would appear that could be determined by measuring the minimal of A for which is constant .
Obviously A must be a pure substance , for if it contained an impurity whose molecular relations to were such that it reduced the tension of more effectively than pure , the tension would be constant and lminimal only when the mass of the external layer ( Aa ) per unit area was great enough to saturate the interface with The conditions which determine the spreading of one fluid over another , or rather between two others , one of which is air , may be stated as follows:\mdash ; Denoting the third fluid , air , by , then at the of a flat drop of A three forces have to be resolved due to the three ions .
" " If the three fluids can remain in contact with one another , the sum of any two of the [ tensions ] must exceed the third , and by Neunlann 's rule the directions of the interfaces at the common edge must be parallel to the sides .
a triangle , taken proportional to .
If the above-mentioned condition be not satisfied , the is inary , and the three fluids camlot rest in contact , the two weaker tensions , even if acting in full COIlcer , being incapable of the strongest .
For instance , if the second fluid spreads itself indefi1litely upon the interface of the first and * See the preceding paper , p. 604 ; also Lord Bayleigh , ' Phil. Mag 1890 , [ 5 ] , vol. 30 , p. 460 .
VOL LXXXVI.\mdash ; A. 2 Mr. W. B. Hardy .
[ Mar. 13 , third flnids .
" " The experimenters who have dealt with this question\mdash ; Marangoni , van der Mensbrugghe , Quincke\mdash ; have all arrived at results inconsistent with the reality of Neumann 's triangle .
Three pure bodies ( of which one may be air ) cannot accordingly remain in contact .
If a drop of oil stands in lenticular form upon a surface of water , it is because the water-surface is already contaminated with yreasy film * Further , the Young-Laplace theory of capillarity leads , according to Lord Rayleigh , " " to the important conclusion , so far as I am aware hitherto unnoticed , that , according to this hypothesis , Neumann 's triangle is necessarily imaginary that one of three fluids will always spread upon the interface of the other two The preceding pages present what I believe to be the current theory of the tension of composite surfaces ; my own experiments prove that it is too narrow for the facts .
When some ricinolic acid ( Kahlbaum ) is placed upon a clean surface of water the quantity first added spreads with great rapidity , but when the film is somewhere about thick , any further quantity added refuses to spread , but remains permanently gathered into a lens .
When more acid is added to the lens it enlarges until the whole surface is covered with a layer of the oil which has been forced over it by gravity .
Clearly , therefore , whereas the first added oil spreads because it lowers the tension , the sign of the effect changes at a certain stage in the thickening of the layer further the tension .
The spreading of the oil is therefore resisted , and a lens is formed .
With some substances ( olive oil , cymene , heavy oil ) , before the stage is reached at which a drop refuses to spread , small lenses , just visible to the naked eye , appear dotted all over the surface .
In the case of cyrnene these tiny lenses are just visible when the film A is of an average thickness of 100 , calculated on the assumption that its density is that of cymene in mass .
The phenomena can be followed in detail by adding successive drops of ' heavy at the same spot .
The result is a patch which is bounded by rings .
Each drop allows the one last added to contract to a ring .
The rings are of the same breadth when the drops are of equal size .
The outermost ring of all\mdash ; very visible when heavy oil is used\mdash ; is the contracted field of contamination on the surface before the oil is added .
The colour of the rings slowly changes .
A drop of heavy oil spreads first to a patch of superb blue , then changes to purple with a defined yellow edge , 1 mm. wide , the patch being say ) 5 cm .
across .
The patch , up now uniform , begins to become mottled , the red gives way to a beautiful pattern of peacock green , steel blue , and bronze yellow , the various Lord Rayleigh , loc. cit. , p. 463 .
Distilled from Price 's " " Motorine A see later .
1912 .
] The Tension of Composite Fluid , etc. colours being sharply marked off from one another even under considerable magnification .
In the centre of each blue patch , which in an undisturbed surface is accurately circular , is a small lens of oil , appearing as a point only to the naked eye .
The mode of formation of these lenses is clear .
Each is a droplet of oil condsnsed about some nucleus , for the most part solid , much more rarely a tiny bubble of gas .
They appear on a surface of distilled water with the heavy oil when the average thickness of the film is ] .
The surface except at first is therefore highly complex\mdash ; coloured areas and lenses being in tensile equilibrium .
In these cases when the general surface is nearly saturated with oil , that is , when the minimum of surface energy is nearly reached , condensation occurs on any nuclei which may be present .
The ultimate relation is the same as that found for ricinolic acid , or , indeed , for all the substances experimented with ( olive oil , castor oil , croton oil , ricinoleic acid , benzyl cyanide , " " heavy\ldquo ; oil , cymene and benzene ) : a uniform sheet of a third fluid in mass*can only be inserted between the fluids air and water by the operation of an externalforce , namely It is obvious from equation ( 1 ) that must have a minimal value unless the rate of decrease of TAB is equal to the rate of increase of .
For , let it be supposed that oil could be spread evenly and continuously on water until it reached the thickness at which it forms a separate phase , the first oil spread on the surface causes the tension TB to fall , but the last of the oil added is tension to rise , and the may more than compensate for any further fall in .
An approximate equation for the surface may be got as follows .
Consider a large lens of oil , say 10 cm .
in diameter and about a millimetre in thickness .
Such a can readily be formed .
Its surface is sensibly flat , but at the edges it curves down to meet the general surface of the fluid , which is also depressed at the edge .
Let the tonsions of the flat surfaces be denoted by , T2 , .
Then .
( 4 ) Let be the area of a horizontal section of the lens , the height of the upper surface above the mean level of the fluid , the depth of the lower * That is a sheet whose depth is , so that the substance is present as a full } .
separated phase .
614 Mr. W. B. Hardy .
[ Mar. 13 , plane surface below the mean level , and the density of of B. Then for the potential energy of the drop we have , if the effects of curvature at the edge be neglected , All the terms in this equation are constant , except , and , which are related variables .
* We may therefore put , ( 6 ) and .
and are very small quantities , so that the whole of the last term may be neglected .
From ( 6 ) , and ( 7 ) we get in which the term upon gravity is written for brevity .
The tension of the gas may certainly be neglected , and probably , which represents the energy per unit area of the gas or vapour condensed on to the surface of the lens .
There remains and the term in brackets is equal to If were equal to then , that is to say the lens is maintained against the action of gravity solely by the tension of its air surface , that is by the tension of the oil itself .
But there is no necessary equality between and .
They refer to essentially different things .
is the potential per unit area of a " " film of discontinuity to use Gibbs ' phrase , between water and air whose tension is reduced by a concentration per unit area of a component A. on the other hand refers to a surface of discontinuity between A and both in mass .
In the application of theory to the solution of the equilibrium of three fluids it is usual to consider the tensions as forces which meet at a point .
The theorem known as Neumann 's triangle may be quoted as an instance .
The method seems to me open to grave objections .
It is true , as Gibbs has shown , that the energy of a surface layer may be equated to a strain limited to a appears only in the term relating to gravity , and may be taken as constant over that range in which this term has a sensible value .
1912 .
] The Tension of Composite Fluid Surfaces , etc. mathematical surface , the " " surface of tension and , therefore , at the meeting place of three fluids these surfaces will intersect in a line , but since the range of action of molecular forces is finite the tensions of the surfaces cannot be the same for a finite distance from the line of intersection , the distance being the greatest distance at which any of the molecules present act upon one another .
The alternative assumption is absurd , namely , that there is no mutual attraction between the material composing the three films right up to the mathematical intersection of the " " surfaces of tension At the edge of the lens there is equilibrium , so that ; ( 9 ) but , and must not be identified with , and All interfaces which I happen to have observed have been highly polarised , the work T'AB , therefore , in those cases must include at least two terms , one for the work per unit area needed to produce electrification of density and , and another for the work due to simple molecular attraction .
If the sum of all the molecular forces which contribute to the self-attraction of the matter be included in the phrase " " molecular attraction the electric energy ceases to be a separate term .
But if any attempt be made to distinguish between the kind of attractions , e.g. chemical or physical , two terms must be employed .
The actual phenomena are undoubtedly better represented by two terms .
Consider the tension T2 , which is equal to .
We have , as before , In forming this surface , by allowing unit areas of surfaces A and to approach normally , let the work be gained in two steps , that is to say , when the surfaces come into contact , let work be first gained by the operation of the mutual attraction of unchanged molecules of A and ; call this work per unit area .
The molecules then proceed to alter one another so that polarisation occurs and work per unit area is done equal to .
Since the necessary condition of equilibrium of a film of discontinuity is that the tension shall be " " less than that of any other film which can exist between the same homogeneous masses , \ldquo ; * we may conclude that the effect of polarisation is to make the tension less .
We have , therefore , the relation ( 10 ) and .
( 11 ) Owing to molecular movements , the polarised molecules occul layers of finite thickness , but we may with Helmholtz consider the two electricities as * Gibbs , , p. 403 .
Mr. W. B. Hardy .
[ Mar. 13 , distributed on two parallel surfaces as in a condenser , the plates of which are separated by a very small distance and have an area .
Polarisation will be complete , that is , the electric density will be maximal , only when the film of A shall have reached a certain thickness , which may or may not be the same as the extreme range of attraction of the molecules of A and B. In other words , and and , therefore , the electric energy of the surface , are functions of the mass of A per unit area .
and , with ( 8 ) and ( 11 ) we have It is important to realise distinctly the meaning of the terms and .
The former is that fraction of the work gained when unit area of a surface of pure A approaches normally unit area of a surface of pure due to the Laplacian attraction of molecules of pure , say oil , for pure , say water .
On the corpuscular theory of matter , it is the term which expresses the work gained from the mutual influence of the external or stray fields of the molecules .
The latter term , , is that portion of the work , assumed to be expended entirely in producing polarisation , which is due to chemical action between the molecules .
It is the term which expresses the sum of the change in the internal fields of force of the molecules .
If A does not react chemically with at the interface , , and is equal to the work gained by simple Laplacian attraction .
This distinction may seem artificial , but it will be seen that it is needed in order to explain the actual phenomena .
It must also be made in any.complete specification of the intrinsic energy of some fluids .
Consider , for instance , benzene and water .
In the former , selfattraction , so far as we know , is entirely due to the stray field of the stable ring of atoms which forms the molecule .
In the latter , a fraction of the total self-attraction , a Yery small fraction it is true , is due to dissociated moleeules , that is , to the opening out of the internal molecular fields .
It must be borne in mind in considering the polarisation of an interface between such bodies as oil and water that the phenomena may be partly due to electrolytes present as " " impuribies Celtainly they cannot be without influence , and equally certainly they cannot be wholly excluded ( e.g. the carbonic acid of the air ) .
But in colloidal solutions the charge on the colloid masses is always greatest when the concentration of electrolytes is least , and I have found that a slight leakage of zinc sulphate from the non-polarised electrodes iuto the observation chamber completely arrests any migration at an interface .
According to our present knowledge such interfaces are discharged , not charged , by soluble electrolytes , but further experiment is both needed and difficult .
1912 .
] Tension of Composite , etc. Methods.\mdash ; The tension was determined in two ways .
In the first , usually called Wilhelmj 's method , the needed to balance tlJe pull exerted by the fluid on a thin blade hung vertically is measured by a balance ; in.the second , the weight needed to detach a flat plate from the surface is measured .
Five glass blades , each mm. thick , were mounted in a light frame so that they were parallel to each other and 1 cm .
apart .
The frame and blades were suspended from one arm of a balance and the level adjusted by means of a fine screw so that the lower of the blades was as nearly as possible at the mean level of the fluid when the pointer of the balance stood at zero .
If be the total of the blades , the needed to balance the pull , the tension is given by .
This formula assumes that the angle of contact of fluid and ylass is zero .
The assumption is sensibly true clean water and nearly true for a contaminated surface .
The factor to correct for the angle is its cosine , and , as this decreases in very slowly for angles , the correction is small .
But , though small , it must not be lost sight of .
The effect of ignoring this correction is to make the calculated values of the tension too low when the water surface is much contaminated .
The formula cannot be used to obtain the tension of a double surface A and AB , for the angle of contact of the AB surface with the glass seems in all cases to be considerable .
In prolonged experiments , it is very necessary to inspect the blades from time to time with a hand lens , to see that no " " beading\ldquo ; has taken place to impurity condensing on to the surface of the glass from the air .
The formula usually given for the plate method also assumes the angle of contact between fluid and plate to be zero at the moment of breaking .
The formula is at best an approximation , and the error may be considerable .
As the best ion , I used the following , , and the weight was taken as the mean of the weight which the surface would just hold , and the weight which broke the plate away .
The plate method has this advantage , that it can be applied when onJy a small quantity of fluid is .
It was therefore used only to obtain an approximate value for the tension of the substances used to fornl the on the water .
The thickness of the film was varied either by Miss Pockel 's lletho which the mass of the film is constant and the area varied , or by gradually thickening a film by increments of material , the surface being constant .
ordinates of the curves in all cases are tension in dynes per ' Nature , ' 1891 , vol. 43 , p. 437 ; also Lord Rayleigh , 'Phil .
Mag 1899 , [ 5 ] , vol. 48 , p. 331 .
Mr. W. B. Hardy .
[ Mar. 13 , centimetre , the abscissae are the thickness of the film calculated from the weight of material placed on the surface , and the area of the surface , the density of the film being taken as that of the substance in mass .
I did not succeed in weighing the minute quantities of croton oil used , and Ihe abscissae for this curve are therefore on an arbitrary scale , the unit 1 being probably much less than 1 Except when the contrary is stated , freshly distilled water from a silver still was used .
The , which was of tin plate , measured cm .
The most satisfactory barriers were made of tin plate cm .
wide , with a vertical strip of plate slightly less than 10 cm .
long , and about cm .
deep , soldered ( with tin ) to the middle .
Each blade in transverse section was thus -shaped .
Two blades were always used , and kept about half a centimetre apart or ] , so as to obviate leakage from a contracted film .
Direct leakage was , I think , practically absent\mdash ; at any rate , lycopodium dusted on to the cleaned surface just near the blade failed to reveal it .
But , of course , the contracted and the cleaned surfaces are in communication with the mass of the liquid , and , if the substance used to contaminate the surface is at all miscible with water , solution from the contracted surface and condensation on to the clean surface will go on .
The vertical strips on the blades were placed there to " " wire-draw\ldquo ; any diffusion stream .
The influence of solubility on the equilibrium of a surface needs careful consideration ; for the present , it may probably be owing to the extreme insolubility in water of the substances experimented with .
The water surface was cleaned by sweeping any contamination to one end with ' one of the blades It was then got rid of by a quick jerk , which threw the surface out of the trough .
Lord Bayleigh* has measured the tension of clean and contaminated surfaces of water by the ripple method and by the blade method .
The values obtained are more divergent the greater the degree of contamination:\mdash ; Owing , however , to the hysteresis of the surface , the ripple method itself cannot be relied upon to erive oorrect results .
The sources of error in the blade method are of contrary sign , and should , therefore , to a certain extent neutralise one another .
As contamination 'Phil .
Mag 1890 , [ 5 ] , , p. 398 .
1912 .
] The Tension of Surfaces , etc. increases three changes have to be considered , ( l ) an increase in the angle of contact of the surface with the blades , ( 2 ) a thickening of the edge of the film of fluid on the , which may result in " " beading and ( 3 ) any change in the tension of the fluid where it wets the blades owing to an attraction of the solid for the oil .
( 1 ) would give the relation from ( 2 ) , and from ( 3 ) .
So as there is no sign of beading or irregularity when the blades are inspected by a lens , and the angle of contact appears to be nearly zero , .
is probably not far removed from .
In order to centre attention on the main point , namely , the relation of tension to chemical constitution , the hysteresis of co1nposite surfaces is accepted throughout this paper without criticism .
There is no doubt in my mind that it is a real phenomenon of the surface and nob merely an effect of adjustments at t , he blades , since it appears when the layer of contamination is excessively thin : also Reinold and Bucker found the properties of a film to depend upon its age .
It will be well here briefly to recapitulate Lord Rayleigh 's results .
The theory of the movements of camphor on the surface of water , due to van der Mensbrugghe , innplies that they will take place so long as the tension of the surface is than that of a saturated solution of camphor .
At a certain tension , therefore , which Lord Rayleigh found by the blade method to be that of a pure water surface , the } ) movements cease .
* To this particular tension he gives the } " " camphor point On the assumption that the density .
a film of oliye oil is the same as that of the oil in Lord Rayleigh found the thickness of the film at the camphor point to be Using castor oil , not olive oil , to form the film , Lord Rayleigh measured the tension when the thickness of the film was varied by Miss Pockel 's method .
His curves show that up to a thickness of about 1 the oil scarcely alters the tension , then a fall sets in until the film becomes about 2 thick .
Further addition of oil has only a slight effect on the tension .
The most important and the most quoted conclusion which Lord draws from these curves is that " " if we be by supposing the number of molecules of oil upon a water surface to be small enough not only will every molecule be able to approach the water as closely as it desires , but any repulsion between molecules will have exhausted itself .
Under these conditions there is nothing to oppose the contraction of the surface\mdash ; the tension is that of pure water " " The next question for consideration is\mdash ; at what point will an opposition 'Phil .
Mag 1899 , [ 5 ] , vol. 48 , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1890 , vol. 47 , p. 365 .
Mr. W. B. Hardy .
[ Mar. 13 ; to contraction*arise ?
The answer must depend upon the forces supposed to operate between the molecules of oil .
If they behave like the smooth rigid spheres cf gaseous theory , no forces will be called into play until they are closely locked .
According to this view the tension would remain constant up to the point where a double layer commences to form .
It would then suddenly change , to remain constant at new value until a second layer is complete . .
If we accept this view as substantially true , we conclude that the first drop in tension corresponds to a complete layer one molecule thick , and that the diameter of a molecule of oil is about The first comment to be made on these conclusions is that the oils with which Lord Rayleigh experimented are quite exceptional in their power of reducing the tension of water , and a similar train of reasoning applied to other substances seems to lead to impossible conclusions .
The molecules of heavy oil and of cymene would have a diameter of 20 to 40 .
Or , taking the camphor points given in the table as the measure of a layer two molecules thick , we should have to accord diameters of from 200 to to their molecules .
CastoCrotoSubstan.nsity .
Thick Olive oil Benzene Benzene spread on a clean water surface , but a flat lens 1/ 10 mm. in average has no observable effect upon the movements of catnphor .
To give this result , however , the benzene must be carefully purffied by distillation and crystallisation .
Impure benzene behaves very differently .
* In one sense of the word contraction it may be said that the clean surface of water does not contract at all .
When the blades are moved so as to diminish the area of a surface , motes iloating on it do not move at all .
This is the best test I know of the cleanliness of a surface .
There is therefore no tangential contraction of the surface such as occurs and is readily seen when any " " skin\ldquo ; of impurity is present .
The diminution of area is effected solely by movement of the surface layer normal to itself .
So long as ffiis kind of adjustment can take place and only so long is there no hysteresis .
All the elements of the surface ( cf. Gibbs , p. 468 ) are in complete equilibrium with one another throughout any changes of area .
'Phil .
Mag 1899 , [ 5 ] , vol. 48 , p. 336 .
The Tension of mposite Fluid Surfaces , etc. Camphor is quite " " dead\ldquo ; upon pure benzene in mass , but still active upon a water surface carefully saturated with this substance .
A surface of Cambridge tap water is very slightly contaminated .
The surface must be contracted to one-tenth its area in order to produce a readable difference of tension .
On such a surface of 700 sq .
cm .
area , 4 .
of benzene poured on to it forms lenses 3 to 4 cm .
in diameter .
These lenses show expansions and contractions , and smaller lenses , that is those of less diameter , move across the surface and fuse with ones .
The expansions and contractions of the lenses are due to the tension altelnately falling below and rising above that of the plane surface in the process of adjustment of the tension by horizontal spreading of a sheet of benzene from a lens and its removal by evaporation .
The explanation of the pulsations ) erefore is the same as that which accounts for the " " tears\ldquo ; of wine .
A touch of ether ( redistilled ) caused the benzene-water film to contract , owing to its tension being greater than that of the ether-water film .
This is the more remarkable when it is remembered that ether is fairly soluble in water ( 1 in 12 ) , and that , therefore , a large part of the ether added must be removed from the surface to pass into solution .
After the addition of ether the small lenses of benzene behave differently .
They move as before towards the large lenses but union seems to be impossible .
When only a short distance separates small from large the former , the nearest point of the large lens being at the same time deeply indented .
The of the small lens is , therefore , accompanied by a local and lowering of tension .
If an " " active\ldquo ; substance be one which lowers the tension of water when a film less than 2 thick is spread on the surface , they fall into two groups which , in order of activity , are Active .
Relatively inactive .
Croton oil .
Benzene .
Castor oil .
Cymene .
Olive oil .
oil .
The first group contains bodies of characteristic chemical instability , namely , the esters .
They are salts of unsaturated fatty acids and glycerine .
Castor oil , for instance , consists mainly of the glyceride of ricinoleic acid .
The " " inactive\ldquo ; group are as characteristically stable , the heavy oil being composed of paraffin , while cymene is a benzene derivative .
Benzene , the least active , has a very stable ; structure .
The simple paraffins are at least as stable as benzene and the relatively large activity of the heavy oil may , therefore , be due to the presence of the\ldquo ; active\ldquo ; impurity .
The " " heavy oil\ldquo ; was obtained by distilling Price 's ' air cooled oil \ldquo ; in a vacuum .
Mr. W. B. Hardy .
[ Mar. 13 , fraction which boils at about 40 was used and denoted by the term oil Since the entire Price 's oil A actively reduces tension this fraction may well contain a trace of active substance .
In cymene the benzene ring is no longer simple , as the formula shows , and all such modifications of the benzene ring decrease its stability .
CH CH CH CH Benzene .
Cymene .
The chemical stability of benzene is associated with a remarkably slight influence on the tension of water .
The molecules of the " " active\ldquo ; substances , being organic salts , might be expected to polarise readily under an axial stress such as must be exerted at the AB surface .
Castor Oil and Croton Oil .
The curves ( figs. 2 , castor oil , and 3 , croton oil ) differ from those obtained by Lord Bayleigh in the sharp points of inflection .
In order to settle whether the inflection is really as abrupt as it appears to be , the first part of the Mr. W. B. Hardy .
[ Mar. 13 , deep , and adjustment by horizontal diffusion or spreading will be slow and difficult .
In this region contraction of the surface caused a rise of tension , for instance:\mdash ; Croton Oil , a trace . .
Tension .
74.17 74.27 74.17 Successive positions of the barriers are given in centimetres from that end of the trough at which the tension was being measured , and it will be noticed that , with slow contraction , the tension at 31 rose to , but , with rapid contraction , the barriers being moved quickly from 68 to 31 , it rose only to The part BC appears to be accurately a straight line .
In curve 4 it is seen to be made up of two straight lines , which are not continuous , but are joined by a cluster of points .
The explanation brings out the most interesting property of these surfaces .
Owing to the hysteresis , it is obvious that any accidental expansion while one is mapping a curve of contraction will displace the curve\mdash ; the subsequent values belong , in point of fact , to quite another curve ( compare , for instance , figs. 5 and 6 ) .
The nebulae of points therefore represent attempts which I made to return to the original curve when I had accidentally left it .
The part of the curve CD slopes very slightly downward , but , as the formula for the tension is probably far from exact in the region , the particular form of the curve is here not of great importance .
Cymene.\mdash ; I am indebted to my friend , Dr. Ruhemann , for a sample of this hydrocarbon .
By ordinary tests it is insoluble in water .
The sample was of ordinary chemical purity , probably sufficiently so to give the true value for a water-cymene-air surface .
Fig. 5 needs some explanation .
The curves are plotted to two distinct scales of thickness of film .
The upper curves are plotted to the upper scale of , the lower to the scale of 0-2000 .
Three sets of measurements are recorded : the simple dots were obtained by contracting or a surface with blades , the ringed dots and crosses by adding known quantities of cymene to a surface of constant area .
The agreement between the results proves that solubility of cymene in water does not produce a sensible effect , at any rate , over the first part of the 1912 .
] The Tension of Composite Fluid Surfaces , etc. curve , for the used contained 1S litres of water , while for the measurements with constant area of surface only 70 cm .
of water was used .
The slight divergence in the later parts of the curves may be due to the difference in the mass of water employed or to the different type of surface produced by moving a barrier so as to contract the area to what is formed when successive additions of cymene are made to a surface of constant area .
It has been pointed out already that a surface in contracting follows a curve different to that of an extending surface\mdash ; the figure of hysteresis for cymene illustrates the point .
Now , in Miss Pockel 's method , a surface starts from an arbitrary point , and thenceforward is a pure contraction surface .
But , when a second drop of cymene or any other substance is added , it is rapidly extended by tho already existing surface , and then , after a few oscillations , comes to rest .
The surface , as formed , is thenceforward composite , being partly a surface of expansion , partly a surface of contraction .
Cymene is a relatively inactive substance .
With the diminished activity , the sharp points of inflection on the curve disappear , and a curve of gradually 'changing slope is obtained .
The hysteresis is seen in the curve of expansion which follows on and is continuous with the curve of contraction .
Heavy Oil.\mdash ; From its source may be regarded as being mainly composed of paraffins .
The curves for the heavy oil are those characteristic of .an inactive substance .
The slope is gradual throughout .
The initial rise of tension is well marked .
A surface of clean distilled water reased by four drops of the oil applied at intervals of 10 minutes .
The surface was then allowed to remain quiet for 70 minutes in order , if possible , to attain eqnilibrium .
In all , cu .
mm. was spread on a surface of 68,000 sq .
mm. area .
The result was lower the tension to the first point indicated by a ringed dot ) .
The Mr. W. B. Hardy .
[ Mar. 13 , crossed points refer to an entirely different experiment , in which the disc method was used .
The surface was contracted slowly , and the curve AC represents the results .
At it was found that the tension rose when the surface was allowed to remain quiet , and reached a stable point at ; it was then extended rapidly , the points measured being indicated by the ringed dots .
It was again contracted , this time rapidly , and now followed curve rising again to , and again extended slowly , the curve being DE .
The whole time occupied in plotting curve DE was 100 minutes , and no sign of variation of tension with time was noticed at any point .
The surface was then expanded along .
It will be noticed that changes of direction appear at exactly corresponding points in the curve of slow contraction and slow expansion .
The four drops of oil spread on ths surface do no.t fuse .
The last added drop , after 70 minutes , could be seen by reflected light to form a large patch with sharply defined edges .
The surface is therefore composite , and the breaks in the curves may provisionally be referred to this .
The question arises whether the curve of contraction AC would not be identical with the curve ED if time were allowed for the surface to adjust itself after each phase of contraction\mdash ; expansion of the surface is , so to speak , dead-beat , as is shown by the ringed dots lying on the curve DE of relatively slow expansion .
The evidence ayailable does not suffice to settle the point .
This , like the many other questions raised , must be made the subject of separate experiment .
It may be noticed , however , that the curve of rapid extension of the heavy oil surface coincides with that of slow The Tension of Composite Fluid , etc. lsion .
Also the curve of very rapid contraction , which was taken Gly in four rapid , and secondly in one jump , i.e. in about four lies above and not below curve , which was taken quite slowly , time occupied in the contraction being about one hour .
comparison of these results shows that the influence of a substance the tension of a water surface is remarkably independent of its own or viscosity .
Cymene , a ] spirit , has much the same type of curve that iven by an oil so viscous that it will scarcely flow .
Benzene , with a tension , has relatively little influence on the tension of water .
Croton oil , with about the same tension , is incredibly potent .
All physical have an influence which is insignificant compared to that exerted the chemical nature of the substance .
Organic salts , that is to say the esters , intensely active , and have sharply inflected .
Stable substances , and benzene derivatives , have given curves only htly inflected , their activity is relatively slight .
The different portions\mdash ; AB , \mdash ; of the sharply inflected curves I interpret as follows : is the which the layer A is discontinuous .
The surface is unstable , and the tension rises above that of pure water the surface is contracted .
In BC the tension is rapidly falling , owing perhaps mainly to the development of a difference of potential between the film A and the water B. That is to say , we may picture partial hydrolysis and ionisation of the ester taking place at the interface .
The second inflection at marks the point at which polarisatiou is maximal , and from onwards the tension falls gradually to a minimum .
Measurements of tension , however , fail to give the real relation in this region owing to the formation of lenses by condensation of oil on to solid particles .
The conclusion that tension falls to a minimum and theu ises again is probable from considerations already advanced , and is supported in a remarkable way by the study of the mechauical ility of composite films .
The curves for relatively inactive substances are sharply distinct in type .
There is an absence of shar } ) inflections , and the second iniiection may be absent .
The curve for the heavy oil suggests that the whole efl.ect in tension may be due to an impuriCy ( see p. 632 ) , bulk of the oil being not relatively but absolutely inactive .
The slow decrease in tetlsion increase in concentration of the substance on surface of the water ascribe to the feebleness or absence of chemical reaction at the interface .
The Mechanical ability of Surfaces.\mdash ; When a bubble of air is to rise in a fluid the lface is lifted and a film is formed which to thin owing to the fluid drained away by its own weight .
a certain time the film becomes so thin as to be ruptured by the VOL. LXXXVI.\mdash ; A. 2 X Mr. W. B. Hardy .
tension .
The time of persistence of the film obviously will depend upon viscous resistance to the flow of fluid which thins it , and the speed which adjustment of tension can be effected by tangential diffusion of components .
* These factors also determine the durability of a flat Without attempting precisely to analyse what it means , let us agree to of the mechanical stability of a film and to regard the time which between formation and rupture as a direct measure of this property .
Bubbles of the same size were formed as nearly as possible at the distance cm .
below the surface in a trough , and their persistence on surface measured by a stop-watch .
The thickness of the film calculated , and the tension measured by the blade method .
For each the duration of at least 10 bubbles was recorded and the mean taken .
the bursting of bubbles on a surface almost invariably raises the tension , was measured before and after each set of 10 , and the mean taken as tension corresponding to the mean duration .
The rise of tension due to bursting of 10 bubbles corresponds on the ayerage to about .
in balance pan .
Castor Oil-Water.\mdash ; The upper curve ( fig. 7 ) is the curve of tension , the scale of the ordinates appears to the left .
The lower curve shows changes in mechanical stability with changes in thickness of the film .
ordinates for ) curve denote seconds and the scale appears to the The abscissae for both curves are to the same scale of .
The zero time scale is the time taken to bursC by a bubble formed on a clean of water .
It is as nearly as can be measured of a second .
At the * Gibbs , , p. 475 .
Tension of Composite Surfaces , etc. in the curve the duration of the bubbles is even less than this ; I unable even to estimate it and entered it in my notes simply as The lower curve shows a remarkable series of oscillations over a corresponds to a composite surface whose tension is varying very decrease in the amplitude of the oscillations is It is obvious that oscillations must occur in the means of any series of numbers , for not only is the tension of the surface with variations in the thickness of the film , but also it is subject to hysteresis eifects .
Therefore , the durability of a film formed from the surface will vary with variations in , e.g. , the velocity of ascent of the bubl ) , the distribution of solid nnclei in the film , etc. The oscillations may , therefore , be a of the means rathel than an indication of a real variation in the mechanical of the face .
Their larity and the orderly decrease in amplitude , however , are most remarkable , and as precisely the same oscillations are foumd in the times and in the means of the longest and shortest times for each set it is , on the whole , probable that they are not merely llumerical .
Similar oscillatiol ) appear in measurements of the mechanical stability of composite surfaces of water with cymene or benzyl cyanide .
In the region of the first oscillation bubbles have sometimes persisted for as long as 70 seconds .
It is possible , therefore , that an apex earlier than the one found may be present .
C'ymene-Water.\mdash ; The ation of the bubbles in seconds as ordinates are plotted directly against tension ( abscissae ) in the curve ( fig. 8 ) .
Fewer points Mr. W. B. Hardy .
[ Mar. were taken , and therefore the true form of the curve probably does appear .
The oscillations are obvious .
In both cases there is a stage mechanical stability is that of a pure surface .
It lasts until the tension of mixed surface begins to fall , with increase in the depth of the layer A. after the first inflection of the curve of tension and thickness a film acquires very great mechanical stability because when it thins , owing draining away of the fluid , the thinning of layer , which must also occur , once raises the tension .
When a surface is brought as nearly as possible the point where mechanical stability appears the record of persistence bubbles is very remarkable .
Tension .
Duration of a series of bubbles in seconds .
1050 552023 221120 2211 In the first series a few bubbles , so to speak , make films with an order stability which rightly belongs to the next series .
If those bubbles exceptional structure be arded the curve may be said to rise from the base line to the maximum of mechanical stability .
When the surface of croton or castor oil and water is near this bubbles which burst as rapidly as possib ] give way when the moved 1 mm. to bubbles which persist for 20 seconds or more and play of Newtonian colours .
It will be noticed that there are two points at which the stability of the surface is minimal , one when the tension is sensibly clean water , and another when it is heavily contaminated .
The minimum occurs when the thickness of the layer of castor oil is 13 , and of cymene is of the order of 2000 .
The line AA in fig. 8 a thickness of .
Beyond this I have no measurements .
Bubbles of the composite surface at the second minimum seem to even more apidly than do those on a clean water surface .
In my notes have simply entered the time as .
At both minima , and there only , bubbles burst with a sharp crackle strongly esting an electric Some active liberation of energy is needed to account for the rapidity of rupture at the second minimum .
It is not the rate of bursting of in , e.g. , pure castor oil , for that oil is a very viscous fluid .
It is a minimum and beyond it the curve rises again .
For instance , a surface oiled with a large excess of castor oil and the mean duration of the rose to seconds .
The Tension of Composite Flnid Surfaces , etc. 6.31 The existence of the second minimum of mechanical stability confirms the already arrived at that between the values of a clean surface and of a double surface there is at least one minimal value of less than either .
For let the curves of tension have the form shown in fig. 9 .
A to the tension of a free film decreases the thickness diminishes , and therefore it is unstable .
Also the tension of a free film formed from the composite surface at would increase with both increase and decrease in thickness ; that is to say rupture would occur even more rapidly than in the region AB .
But , frolu considerations already anced , the extrenle range of action of the llolecular forces at the surface must be equal to at least half the thickness of the film when is minimal , and the method adopted for calculating this thickness , which itself ives minimal values , would fix it as 9 for castor oil , and some hundreds of millimicrons for cymene or heavy oil .
Are we to conclude from this that the range of the -Laplacian attraction really extends to 100 or more ?
The answer depends entirely upon what is meant by the range of molecular action .
If by it is meant the radius of the sphere of influence of a molecule of , say , a then I think the experiments are compatible with the view that this has an extremely small value , not much oreater than the diameter of the molecule itself .
Quite another kind of range of molecular action is possible in close packed structures such as fluids and solids , namely a strain transmitted from molecule to molecule .
At the interface AB , which has sensible thickness owing to the kinetic energy of the molecules , the matter present has to a certain extent the properties of a solid .
The stresses are not isotropic , but there is a component the normal to the snrface probably of very great magnitude .
This may , as we have seen , produce chemical effects , that is to ) , it may the intra-molecular fields of force , it will also strain the extrafields .
The strains on the intra-molecular fields appear as a ionisation of esters , or partial hydrolysis .
Looked at from a purely standpoint , we may egard these modified molecules as reacting with Mr. W. B. Hardy .
molecules on boih sides , and the effect so transmitted from molecule lno]ecule on each side of the mathematical interface .
From the standpoint we may consider the give and take between these molecules and those further away from the interface which must occur the course of their vibrations .
Molecules using out of the zone are to normal ] ecules , those diffusing in are abnormal , just as at an interface between water and water vapour , molecules the zone on the average become polymerised to molecules , while molecules leaving it to enter the yapour must on the be in process of depolymcrisation .
Tb is this irradiation of strain in a packed structure may extend so deeply as to modify the state of a skin solle hundreds of microns in depth .
\mdash ; After the foregoing paper was completed , certain new came to light which make it possible to extend and confirm the al.rived at .
As will be remembered , a suspicion was expressed that effect of the oil called heavy oil\ldquo ; upon the tension of water might be to the presence in it of some active impurity .
I wrote to Messrs. Patent Candle Co. asking them for information as to the chemical of the oil " " Motorine A and especially whether the distillate I under the name " " heavy oil\ldquo ; might be taken to be composed entirely paraffins .
I did so because , as the simple paraffins are more stable en , the chemical theory of the tension of composite surfaces that the effect of parnffins upon the tension of water should be even than that of pure benzene .
The courteous letter which I received from Messrs. Price informed me the Motorine A contains glycerides , which would account for its further , that my distillate also might contain glycerides , that is esters , products of the decomposition of bolycerides .
Messrs. Price sent to me sample of a paraffin oil about as heavy as , and about th same time I came , by accident , across another sample of an oil chiefly paraffins .
Ihese oils I will call and respectively .
Both of refuse completely to spread upon pure water .
The statement is upon the most rigorous tests I could devise .
One experiment follows : trough and blades were scrubbed with strong caustic and left in running tap water for one hour .
The trough was then out with water freshly distilled in a silver stil ] , filled with water , the surface scraped at intervals for an hour .
It was now not to detect any contraction of surface by the movement of motes .
fully cleaned blades were inserted , and the tension found to be The Tension of Composite Fluid , etc. the surface was contracted as much as possible .
The barriers were at the extreme end of the ough .
A very few grains of lycopodium then dusted on to one spot\mdash ; very few in order to avoid of While the position of a particular cluster of grains was being observed along a fixed line of sight a small drop of oil was placed on the surface 1 cm .
distant from the cluster .
The cluster did not move at and the tension did not vary .
A tiny drop of oil was then placed away from the cluster , again with no result .
Each drop floated on surface as a tiny lens .
The barriers were now moved , and the surface contracted as much as possible , with no effect upon the tension .
In con the surface it was noticed that the lenses of oil did not move until were impelled forward by the upward slope of the surface to That is to say , the surface was so pure as to be " " non-contractile.\ldquo ; were driven in this way up to the blades .
Both bal.riers were lifted out .
without any of expansion of a " " skin and placed one another in the middle of the length of the trough .
They were rapidly moved apart to each end and on to the fresh surface so formed few grains of lycopodium were placed , and oil beside them , all as as possible .
The oil did not spread at all .
The great chemical stability of the paraffins makes chemical interaction with water impossible , and with the absence of chemical action at the interface the term in equation ( 11 ) vanishes , and the term in brackets reduces to .
Some degree of chemical action , therefore , would seem to be necessary to make one fluid spread as a film between two others ( air and water ) .
This leads to a purely chemical theory of the miscibility of iiuids , for fluids mix when is negative , and given the relation occurs when , that is , when the energy of chemical per unit area of interface is sufficient to satisfy the condition Oil is completely colourless and transparent .
The contour of the cdge the lens and the nature of the oil-water face can thClefore be followed ease .
Careful examination of the lens shows that the water-air is drawn umder its edge .
The contour of a lens , 3 cm .
in diameter , is somewhat as shown in fig. 10 .
The sign ificance Mr. W. B. Hardy .
of this is obvious , namely , that , for , if the relation be one of the angle must be 10 in order to satisfy the relation , when put a relation which is certainly sufficiently exact to prove the From this point two possibilities nfront us : either that at the edge fluids do actually exis in contact , in which case Marangoni , Quincke , Lord Bayleigh are wrong in .
that Neumann 's triangle is sarily illusory ; or that , in which case the lens of touch but is separated by a pellicle of air .
The choice between these alternatives must be based upon a study of the optical properties of surface .
The general appearance of the AB surface does not suggest presence of a pellicle of air at all .
It is interesting to note that the second alternative may imply a of A for B. This viously follows from the relation if the quantities due to air be ignored and be put respectively to .
The quantity must then necessarily be negative .
The corpuscular theory of matter traces all material forces to the tion or repulsion of foci of strain of two opposite types .
All systems these foci which have been considered would possess an unsymmetncal field\mdash ; equipotential surfaces would not be disposed about the system concentric shells .
If the stray field of a molecule , that is of a of these atomic systems , be unsymmetrical , the surface layer of fluids solids , which are close packed states of matter , must differ from the mass in the orientation of the axes of the fields with respect to the to the surface , and so form a skin on the surface of a pure substance all the molecules oriented in the same way instead of purely in random The result would be the polarisation of the surface , and the surfaces of different fluids would attract or repel one another according to the sign their surfaces .
The statement , so commonly made , that a drop of oil fluid refuses spread on the surface of another only when the latter is contaminated film of impurity is remarkably far from the truth unless the in question be the air\mdash ; an interpretation not usually included in the meant .
I have found lenses of oil on pure water unohanged after 24 the edge still being tucked in .
The lens , however , at once flattens if the Quincke 's value for the tension of paraffin is 30 .
My own measurements of tension of oil give at The Tension of Composite Fluid surface be slightly oiled with an acGive substance such as castor oil , and the edge takes the form shown in fig. 1 .
Castor oil reduces the quantity TBC , and therefore the result is at first sight paradoxical .
The explanation is simple\mdash ; I owe it entirely to an observation made by Mr. Stevens .
When a coloured body such as impure dibronlricinolic acid is used to contaminate the water surface it may be seen to be drawn in as a fllm under the lens .
The quantity TAB is therefore also reduced in value .
An instance of the fact that spreading is made possible , not prevented , by a film of impurity , which must not be too thick , is furnished by oil , which spreads slowly on tap water but refuses to spread if the surface has been first thoroughly scraped .
When a lens of fluid A stands on a surface of water which is coated with a film of , it is possible that the layer of discontinuity AB of the general surface is continued under the lens .
In that case the composite surface between lens and waver would be composed of two surfaces of discontinuity of different molecular structure , namely , the surface of mixed oil and water , which is an extension of the }eneral surface , and the surface of the oil .

