]\gt ; Refractive Ilbdices of , Quartz , and .
329 $0.9 , 61.8 : these values are expressed the curve of fig. 5 , which is therefore a curve expressing Otlghly the minosity of different parts of the same spectrum acoording to the evidence aff.orded by flicker .
For the sake of comparison the luminosity of the different colours as measured by Vierordt is indicated by a dotted curve , and it will be seen that the two curves practically coincide , except for the extreme parts of the spectrum ; it should , however , be stated that Vierordt 's curve has been drawn by making his value for the luminosity of the yellow coincide with that given for this colour by the curve in the figure , and reducing his other values the same propoltion : the reduced are then placed within the limits of the colours to which they assigned by Vierordt .
Ioreover , Vierordt 's curve is for a solar prismatic spectrum , whilst the other is for incandescent lime , used with a grating .
Lastly it should be remembered that the disc was very feebly illuminated in the violet and extreme crimso1l , and also , for the small values of the white coloured sector , in the blne , blue-green , and vermiliori , so that the iion of the relation between and ( indicated in fig. 2 by the steeper for feeI ) illuminations ) should probably be considered : if this is so , the two curves will be bronght into still closer union .
The writer postponcs the consideration of this matter , mtil he has had the opportunity of trying further experiments with such feeble illuminations .
' ' The efractive Indices of Fluorite , Quartz , and Calcite By J. GIrFORD .
CoInmunicated by P. SON , February 5 , \mdash ; Read February 13 , \mdash ; Received in revised fornl Llay 7 , 1902 .
1 .
of vation.\mdash ; Measurements of fluorite , quartz , and calcite have been made by Rudberg , lsIascart , Cornu , Sarasin , Glazebrook , Van der Willigen , Vogel , Pulfrich , , Baille , and many others .
Those now offered were originally undertaken with the of furthcl extending the range and accuracy of lenses constructed of these substances .
A new method of obtaining the refractive indices has } adopted .
Each of the angles of the prisms used was as nearly as possible .
When this is the case it is sufficient to the dovlation of light of a definite wave-length at eaoh angle in turn ; the mean of these deviations may be taken as the *C .
Viel.ordt , ' Pogg .
Ann vol. 137 , p. 200 .
Mr. J. to an an of , and if denote this , the refractive index is given very approximately by the The method has several ages .
In the first place it is not necessary to measure the angles of the prism with accuracy ; then , , if the be suitably placed , light reflected from the outside of the base enters the telescope and is only parallel to the rays of the -length llnder measnrement if those rays have passed through the prism parallel to its base .
we have two images of the slit , one refraction the other by reflection , in the field of in the same direction when the condition for minimum deviation is satisfied .
When the overlap in the field of view of the eye-piece , we may , therefore , rest assured that we have minimum deviation for the wave-length mder observation .
By sliding the prism in a direction at right angles to its base , it is easy to regulate the amount of light thus reflected from the outer side of the base .
2 .
speoial spectrometer by Hilger with obiectives of quartz , the collimator provided with bars carrying the spark apparatus * The following investigation by Dr. Glazebrook will show the mount of error troduced 1 ) the method:\mdash ; Let be the deviation and A the angle of the prism ; and let be the to the angle .
Then we have whence we find , if be .
Now , if be the rences from of the three angles of one of the prisms , each measured in circular measure , , the deviation which would be observed if the angle were , and , the actually observed iations , then A is and is zero .
Hence , if be the refractive index as found by the method dopted in the paper , and the true refractive index , we have , ; , substitming for \amp ; c. , this ; Putting in the small term and , the of the trigonometrical expression is foumd to be 3 approximately .
Hence , If , \amp ; c. , be in mintltes , since the circular measure of a is 1/ 3420 , or For fluorite , , so that The error is almost unity in the seventh figure , which is qnite gible .
For the other prisms it is less .
part .
4 .
\mdash ; The material of which the prisms made is quite normal .
The fluorite is from Germany , the quartz from , the calcite from Iceland .
5 .
mdard -lengths .
\mdash ; Rowland 's wave-lengths have been iffiopted wherever available .
As specimen of the work in fullest detail the ation of the of line for fluorite is given .
( See Appendix I. ) 6 .
very severe method , of testing refractive indices , when they fairly close together , is to calculate the f0lTU of a thin lens from two of the substances , so as to be achromatic for definitc wave-lengths , and then focal lengths calculated by the for the dilfere1lt wave-lengths should form the of a smooth curve .
The focal le11gth 6985 mm. was taken as being ten times that 1 equired for the lenses of a large spectrometer now just completed .
The curves shown ( p. 333 ) are for ( A ) fiuorite and quartz , ( B ) calcite , ) quartz and calcite .
It appears that the focad length of the fluorite and quartz combination is of the wave-length .
A list of such focal lengths is eriven in Appendix II .
7 .
of approximate estimate of the error in the tions may be made as follows : reducing a set of observations three means , called ' ' group deviations / ( see Appendix I ) , are taken .
Let be values of the two of these which show the greatest diflel .
CIlce , then the quantity may be taken as measutc of the error .
Therc are 118 measurements in the table for 33 of which less than ' ; corl.esponding variation of index , , , , ; , , , , , , .
0000034 31 , , , , * ; , , , , , , more than ; , , , , , , 1 only where much as ; , , , , , , 0pticorrcctness of Pris ms.\mdash ; In order to test whether the of the and calcite prisms were parallel to the optic axis , each of the :l1lgles of the prisms was measured , and from measurements and the deviations proper to them separate indices were calcnlated for each of the three angles for the ordinal.y ray , ( b ) for the extraordinary ray .
Owing the most part to errors inseparable from surements Inliccs ofFtuoritp , Calcitp .
Cul.ves for thin Donblcts of approximately 7000 focus .
Ordinary ray .
xtraordinary r .
1.5533605 .
1.5533977 Calcit .
14864145 Thus it would seem that the differenccs in of the indices are not greater than those for the ordinary ray .
As further evidence of accuracy in observation , it may be mentioned that the measurements for line quartz , and extraordinary lay recorded in the table , were made on March 4 , 1900 .
On December 27 , 1901 , the prisms having been set up by mistnke for a prism of -handed quartz , a complete independent series of rements were :gain made for both rays before the mistake was discovered .
The two .
follow:\mdash ; dinary ray .
Extraordinary Iarch 4 , 1900 The differcllce of the two measurements of the ray ) the Hth decimnl } is not shown .
8 .
of Indices.\mdash ; These refractive indices may be conidered c rect to the 5th decimal ; the 6th is pproximateIy correct , and the 7th is of little value .
But it is in many the error does not exceed unity in the 6th place .
9 .
\mdash ; The question of the reIation refractive and -le1igth has not been gone into , but it ) that for the -violet Cauchy 's formula is not of great hile for tho 's formula is a nearer approximation , takes little time to work out , hile the graphical interpolation of deviationS by of reciprocals proposed by Dr. is not * See ' R. M. S. Apt.il , 1899 , Presidential Addre .
'Index of Rrfractire Indices of , and Calcite .
very inferior to Nelson 's , as the indices call soon be ated , and c , an easily be turned into simple arithmetic without the drawing .
But the indices here given have all been observed .
There has been no attempt to make them fall into line by any kind of correction , as the use of a freehand curve or by interpolation .
10 .
Left \mdash ; Some donbt arisen as to the inices of right-handed quartz being the same as those of left-handed , I have had prepared by Mr. Hilger a prism of left-handed quartz of the same dimensions as the prism of right-handed quartz used 111 the foregoing measurements .
I have with this prism determined the indices , ordinary and extraordinary , for the mean D Iine , .
have repeat the corresponding the right-handed prlsm tlsed in the deternlinations , as before referred to .
The results are as follows:\mdash ; dinarY .
, 1900 .
Right quartz December 27 , 1901 .
ight quartz 1 5442551 January 9 , 1902 .
Left 1 5442363 Difference The value given for left quartz and the by de ] ' Willigen length which names is Finally a rough determination of the specific vities follows:\mdash ; Bight .
Left qnartz .
It will thus be Qeen that while the ctive indices of the righthanded quartz are greater than those of the lcfc-handed , the specific gravity is less .
11 .
of .\mdash ; The results of the tlons a given in the following of refracve indices:\mdash ; , and Calcite .
Mr. J. W. Gitiord .
APPENDIX I. Details of an Observation as a Specimen .
October 28 , 1900 .
Zeiss Fluor Prism , 3 sides .
Temp. F. W.L. C. .
Left of prism .
30 Right of prism .
left burr 328 29 30 mean 29 right burr 29 28 30 4.0 29 29 .
29 28 8.75 28 @2S 32 2175 28 27 52.25 al 31.5 29 56.625 29 29 43 .
30 29 .
29 59 .
29 53 .
29 56.25 30 37.87 ?
' 88 29 40.5 30 29 $1 28 Graphical representations are given in the curves on p. 333 , th3 achromatised focal length being there 6985 instead of 1000 mm. Befractive Indices of Fluorite , Quartz , and Calcite .

