6 Mr. J. E. Marsh .
Researches on the [ Dec. 5 , II .
" Researches , on the Chemistry of the Camphoric Acids .
" By J. E. Marsh , B.A. , Demonstrator of Organic Chemistry at the University Laboratory , Oxford .
Commnnicated by Professor Odling , F.R.S. Received August 15 , 1889 .
For some time past I have been engaged in the study of some derivatives of camphor , with the view of determining , if possible , with some degree of certainty the constitution of that body .
I do not propose to enter now into any account of the present state of our knowledge as to the chemistry of camphor , but at once to bring forward something of my own experience on this subject .
Of part of the results which I have obtained I gave a brief account at the meeting of the British Association last year at Bath .
This account had refei'ence chiefly to some further evidence of the relationship of camphor to hexahydrometaxylene , and to the products of oxidation of camphoric acid by means of an alkaline solution of potassium permanganate .
These researches were not published , and are not even yet completed .
On the other hand , I have made some additional experiments which I am anxious to bring forward now , as it may be some time before the whole series is finished .
The experiments to be described have reference to certain processes which resulted in the preparation of a new camphoric acid ; and the remarkable properties of this acid contrasted with those of the ordinary camphoric acid throw considerable light on the nature of the isomerism subsisting between these bodies .
Camphoryl Chloride .
I have had occasion to prepare considerable quantities of camphoryl chloride , C10H14O2Cl2 , by the action of pentachloride of phosphorus on ordinary camphoric acid .
Camphoryl chloride was obtained originally by Moitessier ( ' Compt .
Rend .
, ' vol. 52 , p. 871 ) , but only as a crude product , which he found to decompose on distillation .
The substance may , however , be readily purified by distillation in , when it distils about 140 ' C. under 15 mm. pressure .
There appears to be no difference in the product of the reaction however much pentachloride of phosphorus is used , provided the temperature be not raised above that of boiling water .
CKlorocamphoryl Chloride .
If , however , camphoric acid is heated with a large excess of pentachloride of phosphorus on a sand-bath in a flask provided with a reflux condenser , a new body of the formula C10H13Cl3O2 , viz. , chloro1889 .
] Chemistry of the Camphoric Acids .
7 camphoryl chloride , is obtained .
A further account of this body and its transformations I will reserve for a future publication .
The camphoryl chloride was prepared in order to attempt to reduce it to the lactone similar to the lactones obtainable from phthalyl and succinyl chlorides .
It was not found possible to obtain a lactone under the various conditions of experiment from time to time adopted .
Action of JFater on Camphoryl Chloride .
Circumstances , however , led to the consideration of a more simple reaction , namely , the action of water on camphoryl chloride .
Moitessier had stated that this reaction was such as to give back camphoric acid .
He means , presumably , the original dextro-rotatory acid , as he does not mention more than one .
This acid is , in fact , formed , as will be shown subsequently , but only in very small quantity , and can only be separated from and recognised among the other products of the reaction after special treatment .
If camphoryl chloride obtained from ordinary dextro-camphoric acid is added gradually to about ten times its weight of hot water , there is formed about equal quantities of camphoric anhydride and a new camphoric acid , which rotates the ray of polarised light to the left .
These two bodies are contained in the precipitate after cooling , and form by far the greater part of the product .
Besides these , there is formed a small quantity of another substance more soluble in water , which separates from a strong hot aqueous solution as an oil , after a time solidifying .
This is a mixture of the ordinary dextro-camphoric acid with the new laevo-rotatory acid .
I will refer to this again later .
The camphoric anhydride and laevo-camphoric acid obtained in thi ' reaction are readily separated by treatment with carbonate of soda in the cold , by means of which the Isevo-acid is dissolved , leaving the anhydride untouched .
This anhydride is converted into the ordinary dextro-rotatory camphoric acid by solution in hot caustic soda and precipitation by hydrochloric acid .
I have been able to confirm de Montgolfier 's observation that the camphoric acid obtained from the anhydride has a specific rotatory power of over +48 ' .
I have found Wd = +48-25 ' .
( The determinations of rotatory power have been made throughout with a Laurent half-shade polarimeter , kindly lent me by Dr. Haldane , of the Physiological Department .
) Properties of the Lcevo The laevo-rotatory acid obtained above has a rotation about equal , and of opposite sign to the dextro-acid .
I have found [ a]D = -"48 09 ' .
I am convinced , however , that these two acids are not optically Mr. J. E. Marsh .
Researches on the [ Dec. 5 , opposite isomers , in the sense namely in which dextro- and laavo-tartaric acids are regarded as optically opposite .
In its ordinary properties the hevo-acid differs markedly from the dextro-isomer .
It has a lower melting point , namely , 170 ' C. , as compared with 185 C ' .
Again it yields a very soluble amorphous barium salt , the corresponding salt of the dextro-acid being also indeed very soluble but crystalline .
A more remarkable distinction , however , is that the lsevo-acid appears to have no corresponding anhydride .
When subjected to the action of acetyl chloride , an important reagent employed by Anschutz for obtaining the anhydrides of dibasic acids , the dextro-acid readily and practically quantitatively yields its anhydride , which is insoluble in carbonate of soda .
The lsevo-acid , on the other hand , when treated in the same manner , yields a product almost completely soluble in carbonate of soda , from which the original acid of melting point 170 ' is recovei'ed apparently unaltered .
Conversion of theLcevo- into the Dextro-Acid .
If , however , the lsevo-acid be distilled , it boils about 294 ' C. , yielding the anhydride of the ordinary dextro-camphoric acid , from which anhydride this acid may be obtained in the ordinary way .
Thus it appears possible to convert any quantity of the dextro-acid almost entirely into the lsevo- through the intervention of the chloride , and any quantity of the lsevo- back again to the dextro- by means of the anhydride .
Mixture of the two Acids .
Chautard obtained a lsevo-camplioric acid by the oxidation of a laevo-rotatory camphor .
This acid is described as possessing all ' the properties of ordinary camphoric acid , except that its rotatory power is of opposite sign .
Further , when strong alcoholic solutions of the two acids are mixed there is a precipitation of crystals and a rise of temperature in the liquid .
The lsevo-acid which I have obtained differs from Chautard 's in other properties , and also in this , that when mixed with the dextro-acid in equal quantities in strong alcoholic solution there is no crystalline deposit and no rise of temperature .
On boiling down the alcoholic solution , a syrupy residue is left , which dissolves in hot water more readily apparently than either of its constituents .
From the aqueous solution it separates partly as an oil , which after a time solidifies , and partly as crystals .
Neither the solidified oil nor the crystals have a definite melting point , but both melt at a lower temperature than either of the component acids .
Hence the two acids do not appear to form any definite compound camphoric acid .
1889 .
] Chemistry of the Camphoric 9 .
Separation of the Mixed Acids .
Anschutz 's acetyl chloride reaction furnishes a particularly neat method of separating the two acids .
The anhydride of the dextro-acid formed by the action of the acetyl chloride is separated from the apparently unaltered lsevo-acid by treatment with carbonate of soda , which dissolves only the latter .
Nature of the more soluble Syrupy Product of the Action of on CamphorylChloride .
This substance , which resembled the mixture of dextro- and laevo-acids above described , was subjected to the same process of separation , by which exactly the same products were obtained .
Thus the action of water on the acid chloride is such as to give about equal quantities of laevo-camphoric acid and the anhydride of dextro-camphoric acid , a small portion of latter being further converted into the acid .
Optical Activity of Camphoryl Chloride and Camphoric Anhydride .
It might be supposed , from the circumstances just mentioned , that camphoryl chloride which yields both dextro- and laevo-camphoric acids would be itself inactive .
This , however , is not the case .
I have always found camphoryl chloride to be laevo-rotatory , though I have not found a perfectly constant number to express its value .
For the undiluted substance I have found [ a]D = \#151 ; S'O0 , and \#151 ; 3'6 ' , while for the substance dissolved in crude benzene the rotation is about twice as much , viz. , [ a]D = \#151 ; 7T ' and \#151 ; S'S0 ; the latter value being* obtained with the same specimen of camphoryl chloride which gave a rotation of 3'6 ' when undiluted .
The rotation is , indeed , greater than that of camphoric anhydride , a substance which yields only one camphoric acid .
I have found the specific rotation of camphoric anhydride in pure benzene to be \#151 ; 3*7 ' , and very little different in the same benzene which was employed for the camphoryl hloride .
De Montgolfier has given a higher value , \#151 ; 7 ' T , for camphoric anhydride , which I am unable to confirm .
Theoretical Considerations .
If we wish to interpret rightly the foregoing facts , we shall , 1 think , find it impossible to regard the lsevo-camphoric acid as the optically opposite isomer of the ordinary acid .
On the other hand , there would appear to be a probability , almost amounting to certainty , that these two acids are related to one another as maleic and fumaric acids , the dextro-camphoric acid corresponding to maleic and the lssvo- to fumaric acid .
The isomerism is further complicated by the presence of rotatory power which requires the existence of two other Mr. J. E. Marsh .
on the [ Dec. 5 , isomers which shall he the optically opposite isomers of these two .
In this latter case , therefore , the two acids will also be related , as maleic and fumaric acids , but the loevo-acid will correspond to maleic and the dextro- to fumaric .
This lsevo-camphoric acid is without doubt the acid which Chautard obtained by the oxidation of lsevo-camphor , and the fumaroid dextro-acid I hope to obtain from it by the hydrolysis of the acid chloride .
How , accepting unreservedly Va n't Hoff 's carbon-atom hypothesis , we find that the isomerism of the camphoric acids is not explained by different structural formula ?
, but rather by one and the same structural formula , admitting of at least four different arrangements of the atoms in space .
There will be then two conditions attached to such a structural formula : ( 1 ) Either it will contain two doubly-linked cai bon-atoms , each of them being united to two different groups , and one of these groups containing also an asymmetric carbon-atom ; ( 2 ) or the formula may consist of a closed chain of carbon-atoms , of which two or more are asymmetric .
In the latter case , it is necessary to mention a further restriction , namely , that when there are only two asymmetric carbon-atoms in the ring , there must not be symmetry in the formula , or , in other words , the image of neither isomer must be identical with its object ( see ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1888 , vol. 26 , p. 426 ) .
It is the more necessary to mention this restriction as it applies to Wreden 's formula , a formula which does not admit of rotatory power in the maleinoid acid , that is , in the ordinary camphoric acid .
Turning now to some of the formulas proposed for camphoric acid by different chemists , we find that in general they satisfy one or other of the conditions before mentioned .
But Kekule 's formula , which fulfils the first condition , and Kachler 's , which satisfies the second , cannot be accepted , on the ground that they do not represent camphoric acid as a derivative of hexahydrometaxylene .
Wreden 's formula which does thus represent camphoric acid does not , as I have just mentioned , satisfy the restricted second condition .
Armstrong 's formulas satisfy the second condition , and also represent camphoric acid as a derivative of hexahydrometaxylene , but Armstrong 's formulae appear to me liable to objection on the ground of the formula for camphor from which they are derived .
These formulae represent camphor either as not containing a ketonic group , or if it contain a ketomc group as containing also a closed chain of four carbon-atoms .
How , we know no instances of stable rings of four carbon-atoms , if indeed we know instances of such rings at all ; and it is unlikely that camphor is the one exception to what may be regarded as a general rule .
.he formulae which I have proposed for camphor and camphoric acid appear to be opposed by no facts , and also explain perfectly the isomerism of the camphoric acids .
Camphor is represented by the tormiila\#151 ; 1889 .
] Chemistry of the Camphoric Acids .
CH\#171 ; / \ CHo CH OHs^ CHo CH-CH-v \/ ch-ch3 / and camphoric acid by the formula\#151 ; CH2 ch^chch2cooh I I CHo CH-COOH \/ CH-OH* ( The asymmetric carbon-atoms are in italics ) .
Now the ordinary camphoric acid being the maleinoid acid has the two groups ( COOH ) and ( CH2-COOH ) on the same side of the ring-plane of the six carbon-atom nucleus .
Hence in camphor , as we Q ___ should naturally have supposed , the grouping , __ , is also attached on one side of and not across the ring plane\#151 ; II CHo / c5iC \ \ \ CO / / \/ H CHo ( dextro- and Isevo-camphor ) .
H CII2COOH C / C5H10 \ c / \ II COOH ( dextro- and lsevo-ciscamphoric acid ) .
Again the laevo-fumaroid acid has the carboxyl and ( CH3COOH ) groups on opposite sides of the ring- plane .
12 Researches on the Chemistry of the Camphoric Acids .
[ Dec. 5 , H CHoCOOII \/ C / c5h10 \ c / \ / \ COOH H ( dextro- and lasvo-transcamphoric acid ) .
On the other hand , Chantard 's laevo-camphoric acid , being obtained directly from a lasvo-camphor , will have the respective groups on the same side .
Nomenclature .
We may adopt the nomenclature introduced by von Baeyer to distinguish the hydroterephthalic acids .
Ordinary camphoric acid then is dextro- and Ohautard 's acid laevo-ciscamphoric acid , the prefix c i indicating that the carboxylic groups are on the same side of the ring-plane .
The new acid again , which I have described in this paper , is the laevo- and the acid yet to be discovered will be the dextro-transcam-phoric acid , the prefix trans implying that the groups which govern the isomerism are on opposite sides of the ring plane .
It will be noticed that the formulae which I have adopted require the existence of another series of two camphors ( dextro- and laevo- ) and four camphoric acids ; but of the existence of these we have as yet no evidence .
[ Postscript , Pec .
2nd , 1889.\#151 ; Since the above was written , my attention has been drawn to a paper by M. Friedel in the ' Comptes Rendus ' of last May , in which he describes a laevo-camphoric acid obtained from the substance known for some time as mesocamphoric acid .
This laevo-acid appears to be the same as the one I have just described , and the mesocamphoric acid to be a mixture of the laevo-with the original dextro-acid .
Thus mesocamphoric acid must no longer be regarded as a distinct isomer .
] ]

