Modified Apparatus for the Measurement of Colour , etc. 315 tion at Kalianpur has now been made : at this station the attraction of the southern mass appears to be considerably greater than that of the northern and the resulting deflection of the plumb-line is calculated to be 6"-4 south .
Modified Apparatus for the Measurement of Colour , and its Application to the Determination of the Colour Sensations .
By Sir William de W. Abney , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received April 17 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The author describes a modification of his colour patch apparatus , in which two spectra are produced by the same beam that passes through the collimator and prisms .
With this apparatus two distinct patches of pure or mixed colours can be placed side by side upon a white screen , and when a set of three slits is placed in each spectrum , mixtures in one spectrum can be matched with mixtures in the other , or with pure colours and white combined .
This new apparatus , in which also the positions of the slits in the two spectra could be most accurately determined , was used for a redetermination of the visual sensation curves .
The fourth sensation , supposed by Burch to exist in the violet , cannot be traced , and in the author 's opinion is unnecessary .
The amount of inherent white in the colour which best represents the green sensation is redetermined , and found to differ slightly from that found previously , as is also the amount of blue sensation in the yellow and green part of the spectrum .
This last was only practicable by means of the new apparatus , which enabled pure colours to be isolated in one spectrum , and by mixtures matched in the other .
There is also a redetermination of the three sensations in the other parts of the spectrum .
The curves so determined vary slightly from those given in the author 's previous communication.* In the full paper the various equations for the colour sensations are discussed , and examples in detail given , and finally the curves are tabulated , and the sensation curves for equal stimuli derived from them .
In another table the sensation composition in luminosities of the spectrum colours , when all white has been deducted , is given , and the plotted curves * ' Phil. Trans. , : " The Colour Sensations in Terms of Luminosity , " 1899 .
316 Sir J. Dewar .
The Thermo-electric Junction as [ May 16 of the three sensations and white show that there is no abrupt increase and consequent abrupt diminution in the white component .
This is not the case in the curves which up to now have been given .
The sensation and " equal stimulus " curves are given for the normal spectrum .
The latter part of the paper describes the use to which the last table can be put in ascertaining the dominant wave-length of any mixed colour , and the amount of white mixed with it .
By the use of the table the luminosity of the colour can be found , as also its composition in terms of the three sensations .
Examples are given , and the application that can be made of the results in making colour sensitometers for colour photography .
On the Thermo-electric Junction as a Means of Determining the Lowest Temperatures .
By Sir James Dewar , M.A. , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. ( Received May 16 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) The inconvenience of using the gas thermometer at very low temperatures and the failure of platinum and other metal-resistance thermometers within 30 ' or 40 ' of the absolute zero , led me some years ago to consider the experimental behaviour of the thermo-electric junction at the lowest temperatures .
My special object at the time the experiments were made was to have a further confirmation of the melting point of hydrogen , and also of the lowest temperature reached on exhausting solid hydrogen , other than that I had found by means of the hydrogen gas thermometer.* The results have remained unpublished , because my intention has always been to extend them to other thermo-electric combinations .
Not having been able to accomplish this project , they are now abstracted as affording useful information in this field of investigation , and as furnishing a general confirmation of my previous investigations .
A German-silver platinum couple was selected as likely to give the most uniform results at low temperatures , although subsequent experiments have led to the conclusion that it would have been better to have replaced the platinum by gold .
As regards resistance thermometers , I have shown that gold is more reliable than platinum at temperatures near the boiling point of * " The Boiling Point of Liquid Hydrogen , determined by Hydrogen and Helium Gas Thermometers , " 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 68 , 1901 .

