]\gt ; Mr. J. E. H. Gordon on the Determination [ June adopted the name from the 'Flora ' ithout suspicion , unless , ( which is unlikely ) , both species occur on the island .
the satisfa ' tion of other boanists I have brought specimens of the plants spirits , }ving flower and fruit , as well as dried examples .
The fern , which was new to me , ccording to Lady Barkly , may be of australe .
In the following particulars I am sorly to have occasion to failure .
The moss-eating Lepidopterous larvae all died before our rrival at Cape .
All the larger Algae collected wele spoilt .
One suite of dried ex amples was lost , through the box in they were cont ined bein placed open , in the raln , by one of the nnts a few days before iled , ithout my knowing it hffi been moved from its place .
Th second set , gathered the before we left the islnnd , sent on boar the ' Supply , ' with directions that the box should be placed in an position : unfortunately the miscarried , the box was stowed iu the hold , and I could not get at it until a fortnight wheI almost the whole of its contents completely decomposed .
Again , series of examples of some of the plants were through the difficulty of attending to them when collected .
I left Kerguelen 's Island in H.M.S. 'Supply ' on the 27th February arrived at Simon 's Bay on the bfarch , and at Gravesend on the evening of the 7th May .
In the course of the voyage I collected a few Lnimals and Algae with the towing-net .
IV .
On the Determination of Verdet 's Constant in Units By J. E. H. , Gonville and Caius College , Cambridg .
Communicated by Professor J. CLERK lIAXWELL , F.R.S. Reccived May 5 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) the year discovered thnt certain media possess the perty of the plane of ation of passing through hen a netio force acts on them .
About the year 1853 M. found that with the mngnet medium the rotation is directly to the of the is , thnt the atio the amoullt of rotation and the of the etic field is The object of this igation is to measure this tant in bsolufe The wholo of this work has been done mdel .
Prof. Rfnxwell 's supel.intendencc .
IIe suggested the method and nc ffi detJilS ; and mcrit which the cstigation may have belongs to him .
He is , however , in no responsible for any ( rrors there be in the numerical results .
of Verdet 's Constant in Absolute Units .
505 units for a substance .
Distilled water was used , and the magnehc force was by means of an electric current in a helix , as the magnetism of iron magnets is an uudetermined funotion of the shape and nature of the iron core .
The strength of the hclix mined by comparing the gnetic force at a series of seyen equidistant points its axis in terms of that at the centre of the great dynamometel of the British whose power is knolvn in absolute measure .
The intellsitiesvere compaled by ying clents sent oppositc wnys through each , till the action on small magnet at .
common was nil .
The intellsity at each of a series of points being en cnrrent , the differeJlce of magnetic ltial a th for that ) -as obtained by integrating with respect sponding to the end of the helix .
For this Weddle 's rule was used , where is the length of the helix tho magnetic any point .
The diflerence of magnetic potenti , nt ends being , the , of the is the ratio of this diflerence to the current , or the of potentinl 1}hicb would be due to a ullit current ) is ) ?
, because current and magnetic potential are of the cnsious .
In the helix used , which abo oentims .
in length centims. in diameter , we had The value of the degrces of gnlvnnometer } also by placing it under the )'nnmometer .
To determine the rotation of , of set in a cirole , was used , and by of invented by Professor Jellett , ] of Transactions of the Boyal Irish It was constructed of nd } of on ) o a circle divided by a line , hc ) } certain plane , the lighf of ] lf i ) to that of the first .
Tho ) ] , the whole field was accuracy .
The water was contained in thbc } as the helix , and placed with it .
The } sent it , Prof. O. Reynolds on Roling-Friction .
[ June 17 and a current , hose intensity , , lvas measured by the tangent galva nometer included in the circuit , was sent through the helix first in direction and then in the other , and the plane of polarization observed JIalf the difference of the readings was the rotation produced by th ' current .
If we call this rotation expressed in circular measure , and define Verdet 's as the rotation which a unit current in a unit could produce in unit of length of distilled water , we have The result of the series of experiments made was to obtain for value centimetre-gramme-seconds .
Its dimensions obviously are the reciprocal of those of current , If we put our result in a slightly different form we may say that , If plane rized light passes through distilled water , and the magnetic potential of the water any two points in the path of the differs by unity , then the plane of rization will be rotated those ten-millionths of a unit of circular sure .
Cavendish , Cambridge , April 30 , On Rolling-Friction.'2 By Professor OSBOIINE Communicated by Dr. BALFOUR STEWART , F.R.S. RecciveCl May 24 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) Ihe motion of a roller or wheel on surface is attaended resistnnce .
Coulomb made some experiments with v-ooden rollers on vooden plane , from which he deduced , vi that the is proportional to the weight of rollel\ldquo ; and vcrsely proportional tc its diameter .
These laws since been to apply to other fiubstances , a cient being used in each cttse .
Bcyond this : hon cver , nothing appears hitherto to been scerfained as regard the nature of this resistance to The source from hich it springs does not appcal to been made the subjcct of in ) cstigation .
Somc time it occurred to the author that it was that the of the surface of the roller and of the plane , 11 hich must take place at the point of contnot , would affect the distance which the rollcr old advance in lurning .
The pressure of the roller on the plalle causes a certain temporary indentation and Enginccl , 27th Nov. , 1874 .

