324 Messrs. J. B. Hannay and J. Hogarth .
[ Nov. 20 , equalities at Kew , Utrecht , and Toronto are very like the mean of the three and like each other .
( 5 .
) Of these the Kew inequalities are most like the mean , and the Toronto least so .
( 6 .
) The declination-ranges at Kew and Prague exhibit certain common periods which we may regard as the same , or very nearly the same , as the meteorological periods above indicated .
( 7 .
) Similar magnetic phases appear to occur at Kew about one day before they occur at Prague .
( 8 .
) Correcting for this difference of phase , the individual inequalities at Kew and Prague are very like the mean of the two , and like each other .
( 9 .
) There is also a less striking likeness between the various mag-netical and the corresponding meteorological inequalities .
( 10 .
) Provisional sun-spot records appear to show certain solar inequalities very like the magnetic and meteorological inequalities in point of period .
22 .
In conclusion we would express our hope that steps will be taken to ascertain what information exists in the world available for these researches , and also to bring such information together for the purpose of a further and more complete discussion of the laws now indicated .
VI .
" On the Solubility of Solids in Gases .
" By .
J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. , and James Hogarth .
Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Sec. R.S. Received October 8 , 1879 .
( Preliminary Notice .
) This investigation was undertaken in the hope that , by an examination of the conditions of liquid matter up to the " critical " point , sufficient knowledge might be gained to enable us to determine under what particular conditions liquids are dynamically comparable , in order that the microrheometrical method* ( which the Royal Society has done one of us the honour of publishing in the " Philosophical Transactions " ) might be applied to determine their molecular mass and energy relations .
It seemed that as the laws relating to gases and liquids merge at what was called by Baron Cagniard de la Tourf " l'etat particulier , " and by Dr. Andrews^ the " critical point , " an examination of matter up to the limit of the liquid state would be * " On the Microrheometer , " " Phil. Trans. , " vol. clxx , p. 275 .
f " Ann. Chim .
, " Series 2me , xxi , p. 127 ; xvii , p. 410 .
X " Bakerian Lecture , " Phil , Trans. Roy .
Soc. , " 1869 , p. 588 , 1879 .
] On the / Solubility of Solids Gases .
likely to yield us much information .
The time we have to devote to scientific work being very limited , we found that it was quite impossible to make much advance by using the apparatus devised by Dr. Andrews , as the time required to change from one liquid to another was more than we had at our disposal .
We therefore devised a new apparatus , which will be described in a more lengthy communication , but which , we may state , can be opened , the liquid changed , and again closed for a new experiment , in about one minute .
The question as to the state of matter immediately beyond the critical point being considered by Dr. Andrews to be at that time incapable of receiving an answer , we imagined that some insight might be gained into its condition by dissolving in the liquid some solid substance whose fusing point was much above the critical point of the liquid , and noticing whether , on the latter passing its critical point and assuming the gaseous condition , the solid was precipitated or remained in solution .
We found that the solid was not deposited but remained in solution , or rather in diffusion , in the atmosphere of vapour , even when the temperature was raised 130 ' above the critical point , and the gas was considerably expanded .
When the side of a tube containing a strong gaseous solution of a solid is approached by a red hot iron , the part next the source of heat becomes coated with a crystalline deposit which slowly redissolves on allowing the local disturbance of temperature to disappear .
Rarefaction seems to be the cause of this deposition , because if the temperature be raised equally and the volume retained at its original value , no deposition takes place .
Those experiments have been done with such solvents as alcohol ( ethyl and methyl ) , ether , carbon disulphide and tetrachloride , paraffins , and olefines , and such solids as sulphur , chlorides , bromides , and iodides of the metals , and organic substances such as chlorophyll and the aniline dyes .
Some solutions show curious reactions at the critical point .
Thus ethyl alcohol , * or ether , deposits ferric chloride from solution just below the critical point , but re-dissolves it in the gas , when it has been raised 8 ' or 10 ' above that temperature .
It appeared to us to be of some importance to examine the spectroscopic appearances of solutions of solids when their liquid menstrua were passing to the gaseous state , but as all the substances we have yet been able to obtain in the two states give banded spectra with nebulous edges , we are only able to state that the substance does not show any appreciable change at the critical point of its solvent .
Such was the case with anhydrous chloride of cobalt in absolute alcohol .
It was suggested to us by Professor Stokes that the substance obtained by the decomposition of the green colouring matter of leaves by acids , and which yields a very fine absorption spectrum , might be useful for our purpose .
We have prepared the substance according to the care- 326 Mr. C. Tomlinson on the Action of Nuclei .
[ Nov. 20 , f al directions so kindly furnished ns by Professor Stokes , and find that it shows the phenomenon in a marked manner , whether dissolved in alcohol or ether .
The compound is easily decomposed by heat under ordinary circumstances , and yet can be dissolved in gaseous menstrua , and raised to a temperature of 350 ' without suffering any decomposition , showing the same absorption spectrum at that elevated temperature as at 15 ' .
We considered that it would be most interesting to examine by this method a body such as sodium , which , besides being an element , yields in the gaseous state sharp absorption lines .
An opportunity seemed to be afforded by the blue solution of sodium in liquefied ammonia , described by Gore , * but we found that , on raising the ammonia above its critical point , the sodium combined with some constituent of the gas , forming a white solid , and yielding a permanent gas , probably hydrogen .
There seems , in some cases , to be a slight shifting of the absorption bands towards the red , as the temperature rises , but we have as yet been able to make no accurate measurements .
When the solid is precipitated by suddenly reducing the pressure , it is crystalline , and may be brought down as a " snow " in the gas , or on the glass as a " frost , " but it is always easily redissolved by the gas on increasing the pressure .
These phenomena are seen to the best advantage by a solution of potassic iodide in absolute alcohol .
We have , then , the phenomenon of a solid with no measurable gaseous pressure , dissolving in a gas , and not being affected by the passage of its menstruum through the critical point to the liquid state , showing it to be a true case of gaseous solution of a solid .
VII .
" On the Action of Nuclei in producing the Sudden Solidification of Supersaturated Solutions of Glauber 's Salt .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received October 6 , 1879 .
I propose now to state the general conclusions at which I have arrived since resuming the study of this subject two years ago.f The remarks that will be made refer to solutions of the typical salt , sodic sulphate , in the proportions of 6 of salt to 3 of water .
In my first two papers on supersaturated saline solutions , J a nucleus is defined as a body that has a stronger adhesion for the salt , or for the liquid of a solution , than subsists between the salt and the liquid .
* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxi , p. 145 .
+ " Proo .
Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvi , p. 523 .
I " Phil. Trans. , " 1868 and 1871 .

