An Account of two Children born with Cataracts in their Eyes , to show that their Sight was obscured in very different Degrees ; with SExperiments to determine the proportional Knowledge of Objects acquired by them immediately after the Cataracts were removed .
-By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read January 15 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 83 .
] The design of the present communication is to explain a disagreement between the results of former experiments on this subject ; since a very intelligent boy , thirteen years of age , couched by Mr. Cheselden in 1728 , was unable , upon receiving his sight ; to distinguish the outline of any object placed before him , and thought that everything before him touched his eye ; but the cases communicated to this Society by Mr. Ware in 1801 lead to a different conclusion .
The subjects of Mr. Home 's experiments were not equally sensible of light previous to the operation of couching , and consequently were not similarly affected by objects presented to them after receiving their sight .
The first was a lad twelve years of age , with cataracts in both eyes , that appeared to have existed from the time of his birth , as it had been noticed from his earliest infancy that his eyes rolled about in an unusual manner , and were not directed to objects before him , nor were his hands ever stretched out to catch at anything ; but it was not till the child was six months old that his mother examined his eyes with attention , and observed cataracts as distinct as when he was brought to Mr. Home .
Previous to the operation , this boy could distinguish light from darkness , and the light of the sun from that of a candle , saying , it was redder and more pleasant to look at ; but lightning made a still strdnger impression .
He was accustomed to call all light red .
He had some conception of size , and said the sun was the size of his hat , and that the flameof the candle , was larger than his finger , but less than his arm .
He directed both his eyes at once to these obj:ects ; and when a candle was nearer than twelve inches he said it touched him , but at twenty-two inches it was invisible .
The operation of extracting the crystalline lens was first performed on the left eye ; but as the cataract was in this instance found to be fluid , and the inflammation which followed was considerable , the operation of couching was preferred to it for the right eye , and was performed after an interval of eight weeks .
After the first operation , the eye was so imperfect in its powers , the pupil so contracted , and the surface of the cornea so irregular , that he could not discern any object distinctly , but imagined that everything presented to him touched his eye , and still continued to call every object red .
After couching , the inflammation which followed was not so considerable as in the former case ; but this cataract was also fluid , and , from its diffusion through the aqueous humour , occasioned a temporary opacity , which concealed for a time an opacity of the capsule , which rendered the sight permanently imperfect .
It was not till the end of four weeks from the second operation that the sight was again examined , when it was found that he had acquired some knowledge of colours and of the distances of objects , which no longer appeared to touch his eye ; but he could not be said to have acquired any discernment of figure .
The second opportunity which Mr. Home had of making similar experiments was in a boy of seven years of age , who had been blind from his birth by cataracts in both eyes .
His blindness , however , was not so complete as in the preceding case : his pupil contracted considerably when a lighted candle was placed before it , and by daylight he could distinguish many colours with tolerable accuracy , particularly the more vivid ones .
The operation of couching was again preferred in this case , with the hope of avoiding inflammation .
It gave very little pain , and was attended with the desired success .
As it was hoped that the eye would be but little disturbed by the operation , Mr. Home was prepared to examine his perception of objects as soon as the operation was over .
After the eye had been allowed ten minutes to recover itself , a round piece of card of a yellow colour was placed about six inches from it .
He immediately said that it was yellow ; but upon being asked the shape , he expressed a wish to touch it .
Upon this being refused , he continued to look at it , and at length guessed that it was round ; and when a square blue card was put before him , he said that this was blue , and round also .
A triangular piece he also called round .
With regard to the distance of objects , he could form no judgement , but did not even at first suppose that any of them touched his eye .
The pleasure which this boy received from receiving his sight was such , that it was found impossible to restrain him from using it .
The experiments were consequently repeated , and carried further at the distance of about two hours from the operation .
Upon being desired to examine a square card with attention , he after some time said , he had found a corner , and then readily counted four corners ; and in the same manner counted three angles of a triangle , by running his eye along the edges from corner to corner .
He was on various occasions deceived , as might be expected , by the different apparent magnitudes of the same body at different distances : a guinea at fifteen inches distance was taken for a seven shilling piece ; but at five inches he thought it a guinea .
Upon seeing a cart from a two pair of stairs window , he took it for a wheelbarrow drawn by a dog , and counted the number of horses in other carts , supposing them to be dogs .
At the end of a fortnight , when the different pieces of card were placed before him , he could not immediately tell their shape .
These being objects which he had not been accustomed even to feel , he was still learning them as a child learns to read : he could distinguish the angles , and could count their number in succession ; but at the expiration of the third week , he could tell these forms nearly as readily as their colour .
The inferences which Mr. Home draws from these , are , that when the eye , before the cataract is removed , has only been capable of discerning light , without any power of distinguishing colours , then objects , after its removal , appear to touch the eye , and there is no knowledge of their outline , agreeably to the observations made by Mr. Cheselden .
But when the eye has previously been able to distinguish colours , it has then also some knowledge of distances , though not of outline , but will soon attain this also , as happened in Mr. Ware 's cases .
In a practical view , these cases confirm what has been laid down by Mr. Pot and by Mr. Ware , with regard to cataracts , in being generally soft , and in recommendation of couching as the operation which is best adapted for removing them .

