262 Note on Opalescence in Fluids near the Critical Temperature .
By Sydney Young , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Trinity College , Dublin .
( Received June 18 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1906 .
) The phenomenon of opalescence at and near the critical temperature has been observed by Travers and Usher* under exceptionally favourable conditions , owing to the great width ( 8 to 10 mm. internal diameter ) of the tubes they employed .
The opalescence is , however , distinctly visible , and can be studied in much narrower tubes , such as those ( 0T5 mm. internal diameter ) used in my own investigations .
The experiments of Travers and Usher were carried out , for the most part , in such a manner that the total vol ume of the substance investigated remained constant , while the temperature rose very slowly .
In my experiments , on the other hand , the substance was kept at its critical temperature , !
and the volume was altered ( usually diminished ) by equal stages .
The opalescence was always seen , but notes of its position and character were only made with a few substances\#151 ; isopentane and normal pentane , hexane , and octane .
My observations\#151 ; mostly unpublished\#151 ; may be regarded as supplementing and , so far as a comparison is possible , confirming those of Travers and Usher , and the following generalisations may be deduced from them:\#151 ; 1 .
When observations are made at the critical temperature ( Cagniard-Latour temperature ) at a series of diminishing volumes , no opalescence is visible so long as the volume exceeds a definite limit .
When this limiting volume is passed , a slight opalescence appears at the bottom of the tube , that is to say , just over the mercury ; at still smaller volumes the opalescence or mist becomes denser and extends further up the tube .
Near the critical volume the mist is very dense , especially near the middle ; it may extend all through the tube , or the tube may appear clear either at the top or both at top and bottom .
When the volume is further reduced , the mist disappears below , but becomes dense above , and on further compression the clear part extends upwards and the remaining mist at the top becomes less dense and finally disappears at a definite volume .
When observations at the critical temperature are made at a series of increasing volumes , there is a tendency for the mist to be lower down in the tube than when they are made during compression .
This tendency may * Supra , p. 249 .
t In the case of normal pentane the " Cagniard-Latour temperature " and the " critical temperature " were found to be identical or at least indistinguishable ( 'Trans .
Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 71 , p. 446 , 1897 ) .
Opalescence in Fluids near the Critical Temperature .
263 probably be explained by the fact that each expansion causes a temporary slight fall below the critical temperature and , consequently , a very slight condensation from the critical to the liquid state ( in three cases it was noted that the meniscus was actually seen for a moment ) .
Some little time would be required for equilibrium to be re-established after such a disturbance of the density , and it may be that the time actually allowed\#151 ; one or two minutes at most\#151 ; was insufficient .
On the other hand , during each compression , there is a very slight rise of temperature , but this does not cause any change of state or disturbance of density .
2 .
When observations are made at a temperature slightly higher than the critical temperature , the mist is not only much less dense , but the range of volume over which it is visible is more restricted .
3 .
The limits of volume between which mist is visible at the critical temperature seem to be nearly the same for the four paraffins examined ( about 1T7 or ITS to about 087 or 0*88 , taking the critical volume as unity in each case ) .
One conclusion drawn by Travers and Usher from their experiments is that " the opalescence is confined to that phase which is decreasing in volume through movement of the dividing surface , or , at least , is most intense in that phase .
" It happens , however , that in their experiments , whenever the liquid phase'was small at first , it diminished , and when large at first , it increased ; and it may be doubted whether the above relation would be found to hold good for a phase which was large but decreasing in volume , for example , under the following conditions : { a ) constant volume and slowly falling temperature ; ( 5 ) constant temperature and the total volume either large but decreasing , or small but increasing .
It seems probable from my experiments that the position of maximum opalescence really depends on the mean specific volume of the substance , being near the bottom when the volume is large , near the top when small , and near the middle at intermediate volumes .
This question , although it does not affect the main conclusions arrived at by Travers and Usher , seems to be of sufficient interest to repay further investigation .

