189 II .
Extract of a Letter to Admiral FITzROY , F.R.S. , from Captain PULLEN of H.M.S. 'Cyclops , ' dated Aden , March 16 , 1858 .
Communicated by Admiral FITzROY .
Received April 15 , 1858 .
My first sounding for temperature at any depth , was in 32§ 13f N. , long .
19§ 5t W. , where at 400 fathoms the minimum temperature was 51 ?
'5 , the surface at the time being 70 ? .
The water brought up in the bottle was of greater density than we have since found it , namely , 1031 at temp. of 70 ?
, whilst at the surface it was 1026 .
Supposing that you will see all the registered depths , &amp;c. sent to Captain Washington , I do not enter into full detail here .
The next time , I sent two thermometers down at 500 and 800 fathoms ; at the greater depth , 44 ?
5 ; at the lesser , 50 ?
was the minimum temperature .
But now I began to observe some alterations in the indexes of the instruments , that of the maximum column not returning to the surface in the same position in which it stood on starting , viz. close to the mercury ( brought to the surface temperature by being kept sufficiently long in the water alongside , and then compared with the deck-thermometer in constant use for that observation ) .
Now I know from former experience that these indexes will shift by shaking the instrument , and with much less force than is frequently communicated to it by a shake of the line , on its passing up and down .
From this we may infer that the minimum index also moves , how much it is impossible to say .
And on looking over the results obtained during the voyage , I find that but few of the maximum indexes have come in standing at the point they started with .
I therefore draw your attention to the fact , that such remedy may be applied as will obviate the defect .
I have found another fault in thermometers before now ( but then it was at a low temperature , and not Six 's self-registering instrument that was employed ) .
During my second winter at Fort Simpson , I , every three hours throughout twelve of the twenty-four , registered twenty-one thermometers , eighteen of Adie 's and three of Negretti 's , on glass scales .
I never found Adie 's at any temperature to differ more than a degree and a half from each other .
Negretti 's , when they ranged low , say twenty below zero , I have found twenty , eighteen , and 190 twelve degrees lower than Adie 's .
Here , in a high temperature ( eighty degrees ) , I find three differing from the deck4thermometer , as well as from the other three ( having only six remaining ) , being six , seven , and ten degrees higher .
The correction ( but a few tenths of a degree ) can be allowed for certainly , but this difference may not be the same at a lower temperature , therefore it occasions a serious drawback to the efficiency of these instruments ; and I always feel doubtful about the results .
As yet I have only used those that agree nearest with each other .
My next sounding was in 10§ 7 ' N. , long .
27§ 32 ' W. , the position of the Hannah Shoal , no bottom with 2000 fathoms of line .
There is 15 marked in some charts on this shoal .
In 4§ 16 ' N. and 28§ 42 ' W. , two thermometers were sent down to 1500 and 1000 fathoms , the greater depth showing a minimum 39 ?
'4 , the lesser 42 ?
'5 .
No specimen of bottom had yet been brought up , as all the soundings hitherto , except those for the Devil 's Rock in the Bay of Biscay , as well as the determinations of temperature , had been taken from a boat with small lines ; so in the next cast I sounded from the ship with a large line , the regular deep-sea lineand combined the experiments .
Two thermometers were sent down on the line ; and the sinker was down , by intervals , at about 1080 fathoms .
The valve brought in a plentiful supply of bottom , and the thermometers showed a minimum temperature of 38 ?
'5 at the lowest depth , and 46 ?
'2 at 680 fathoms .
This was in latitude 2§ 20 ' N. , longitude 28§ 44r W. , 90 miles from Saint Paul 's Island .
The specimen of bottom was a fine light greyish sand .
Drawing now to the Equator , I determined , if possible , to get a cast directly on it , and also the temperatures ; accordingly the boat took the cast for bottom , while from the ship an endeavour was again made to combine the experiments .
It failed , however , I am sorry to say , resulting in the loss of a large portion of the line , and two instruments sent down with it .
From this I felt fully convinced that the uncertainty of concluding when the weight is down , from the intervals , is such , that the sounding becomes of little value , as far as the true depth is concerned .
[ An extract of Capt. Pullen 's Journal is here given , -showing the uncertainty of judging by the 'intervals ' as to the time of reaching the bottom , and the consequent liability to pay out too much 191 line ; also the increased strain then occasioned by the friction of the under current on the over-long line , and the great risk of the latter giving way on being pulled in ; and stating the conclusion of the writer , that , in order to arrive at true results , soundings for bottom and temperature must not be combined .
] I have before this noticed how irregular the intervals always were when getting temperatures , particularly when more than one thermometer was on the line , but had never thoroughly considered the cause , nor the results likely to follow from the increased weight on the line ; for although the addition of the thermometer ( weighing about six pounds in the watet-bottle ) gives rapidity to the descent of the weight , its bulk offers great resistance on coming in , consequently the line has more tendency to break .
And when it is intended to send down more than one thermometer , the line must be stopped to attach the addition , which at once checks the rapidity of descent , and the line has then to be let off the reel with more force , impossible to apply equably ; and the intervals become so irregular , that all certainty of when the sinker is at the bottom is lost , and you feel at a loss when to stop .
From this experience I think I may say we have profited , for not a single fathom of line has been lost since , although going double the depth ; once , too , with a fresh breeze with 2380 fathoms of line out ; and it was with the greatest difficulty we could get the deck engine to reel it in again , and then only by putting all the Watch on to assist with their weight .
I now began to observe more regularly for the temperatures , and with a stouter line than that usual for sounding , kept exclusively for the purpose .
After crossing the Equator , I sent the thermometers down at nearly every tenth parallel , three at a time , at twelve , eight , and four hundred fathoms , reserving portions of the water brought up to send home for/ analysis .
In latitude 26§ 46 ' S. and longitude 230 52 ' W. , nearly midway between where Sir James Ross has sounded without getting bottom , I got 2700 fathoms .
A single thermometer was sent down to this 2700 fathoms depth , secured just above the sinker , and came in showing a minimum temperature of 35 ?
F. ; and the bottom brought up in the valve was a very fine brown-coloured sand .
In this case the common deep-sea line was used , and weighted with 1201bs .
sinker ( Brook 's detaching ) , just one-fifth of its break 192 ing strain ; and the rapidity of descent has hardly if ever been equalled in speed by smaller lines when weighted nearly up to their breaking strain , as shown in the American soundings .
One hour from the time we let go , the intervals showed that the weight was down .
I ran the easting down between the parallels of 35 ?
and 38 ?
S. , from the Cape of Good Hope eastward outside Mauritius in the Indian Ocean , in the route of many doubtful dangers , and on nearing them the lead was brought into play .
The first was the ' Brunswick , ' on which is marked 85 fathoms , deep enough certainly for any ship that swims ; but to clear up all doubt , two casts were obtained not far from its position , of 1410 and 1102 fathoms , without reaching bottom .
Then comes the ' Atalanta , ' having three positions , one on our Admiralty Charts , and two from Horsburgh , giving it as an extensive shoal under water , with pointed rocks on its western part .
I passed from the westward between the northern position , and the first in order to the southward , and got four deep casts , besides several of 50 and 80 fathoms .
The first was 1110 fathoms down by intervals , but no valve coming in , it appearing to have been broken off from the rod by striking some hard substance , either at the bottom or on its passage up or down , I immediately determined on getting another cast , although darkness was coring on .
The weather fortunately was calm with very little sea on ; so stationing a number of lanterns , the lead was at once dropped over the bows , and as satisfactory a cast was got as could possibly be wished , the sinker striking bottom by intervals at 1120 fathoms , thus proving the correctness of the first sounding , and finally , the valve coming in with a sufficient portion of bottom to prove it again .
This specimen consisted of what appeared to the eye very fine sand covering a hard substance ( coral I suspect ) , but under the microscope it was found to be some of the most beautiful specimens of Diatomacese that can be imagined .
I send home these specimens , small as the quantity is , being quite sufficient for examination .
The next morning further to N.E. with 800 fathoms , no bottom : another cast still further N.E. , bottom with 900 fathoms , bringing up another specimen of the same sort of sand as last night , with a small pebble amongst it .
[ Capt. Pullen here explains how his attention was drawn to parts of the sea where the surface was covered , for a considerable space , with 193 a white milky substance , apparently of animal nature , in large patches , with strips of deep blue water between ; producing an effect which , viewed from a distance with a glass , had very much the appearance of breakers ; and he suggests that some of the reports of shoals and breakers between the parallels of 35 ?
and 40 ?
may have no better foundation than the phenomenon in question .
] Steering now to pass to the east of Mauritius , a little south of the parallel of 20 ?
, about 90 miles from the land I got no bottom with 1375 fathoms of line , which gave me the first idea , that what I had before thought of the Indian Ocean not being so deep as the Atlantic was wrong .
Proceeding northward , I passed west of Cargados Garazos , Saya de Malha , east of Seychelles , and crossed the Equator in 58§ 20 ' E. ; getting a cast 9 miles south of it with 2380 fathoms , no bottom .
This is the sounding alluded to in a former part of this letter .
Forty or fifty miles west of the northern part of Cargados , 1400 fathoms of line reached the bottom .
In 14§ 41 ' S. , 58§ 43 ' E. , no bottom with 1570 fathoms ; 10§ 30 ' S. , and 58§ 52 ' E. , no bottom with 1320 fathoms .
At this cast I sent down three thermometers at the 1320 , 850 , and 440 ; the minimum at the greatest depth 51 ?
'5 , at the centre depth 41 ?
'5 , and at the least depth 51 ?
'5 .
The maximum tell-tales at the two least depths came in all right , but that of the greatest depth had fallen 6 ?
; and its minimum showing an increasing temperature after passing through the colder stratum , is quite proof enough of its tell-tale falling down too , at least down the column instead of remaining up at what it once must have been in passing through that stratum , which the tell-tale of the thermometer at 880 fathoms shows the temperature of .
Winds now light and northerly .
I got close to the doubtful George Island , and three quarters of a mile west of its southern point , bottom was not reached with 2000 fathoms of line .
I then passed over it nearly a mile within its southern point , and having no signs of being on shore , I conclude that no such island ever existed in the position given it on our charts ; and I find no account of it in Horsburgh .
Steaming now for Rose Galley Rocks , five miles south of the most western of them , I got bottom with 2254 fathoms of line , and brought up a plentifll supply of bottom , as well as the minimum 194 temperature 350 .
A thermometer was sent down with the weight yesterday at 2000 fathoms , and returned with a minimum temperature of 38 ?
'5 .
Now 35 ?
was the minimum temperature at 2700 fathoms in the Atlantic , further south than this cast , which was near Rose Galley Rocks .
I am therefore inclined to think that this is about the minimum temperature of the great depths of the Ocean , and that it commences soon after passing 2000 fathoms .
III .
" On The Stereomonoscope , a new Instrument by which an apparently Single Picture produces the Stereoscopic Illusion .
" By A. CLAUDET , Esq. , F.R.S. Received March 10 , 1858 .
In a former paper " On the Phenomenon of Relief of the Image formed on the ground glass of the Camera Obscura , " which I communicated to the Royal Society on the 8th of May 1856 , after having investigated the cause of that extraordinary fact and tried to explain it , I found that the images produced separately by the various points of the whole aperture of an object-glass are visible only when the refracted rays are falling on the ground glass in a line nearly coinciding with the optic axes ; so that when both eyes are equally distant from the centre of the ground glass , each eye perceives only the image refracted in an oblique direction on that surface from the opposite side of the object-glass .
Consequently each side of an object-glass , in proportion to its aperture , giving a different perspective of a solid placed before it , the result is an illusion of relief as conspicuous as when looking naturally at the objects themselves .
From the consideration of these singular facts , unnoticed before , I was led to think that it would be possible to construct a new Stereoscope , in which looking with both eyes at once on a ground glass at the point of coalescence of the two images of a stereoscopic slide , each refracted by a separate lens , we could see it on that surface in the same relief which is produced by the common stereoscope .
This instrument , as may be perceived at once , is nothing more than an ordinary camera obscura supplied with two lenses , each mounted on a sliding frame in order to be able to give them , according to the focal distance , the horizontal separation necessary for pro-

