An Account of a small Tract , entitled , THOM AE HOBBES Quadratura Circuli , Cubatio Sphaerae , Duplicatio Cubi , ( secundo Edita , ) Denuo Refut ata , Auth. JO H. WALLI S. S. T. D. Geom , Prof. Saviliano .
Oxoniae , 1669 .
SInce Mr. Hobbs thought himself obliged to make some Reply to Dr Wallis 's confutation of what he had , not long since , publish't upon this Argument ; Dr. Wallis made no stay at al to return this Answer and second refutation .
Concerning which we shall give you a brief account , suggested by Dr. Wallis himself , of Mr. Hobbes 's fundamental mistake in his late Quadrature of the Circle , referring the Reader to the Tract itself for the Figure , which is therein the first .
Mr. Hobbs , considering , That , in case it should happen so luckily ( which was not necessary ) that QY ( the base of a rightangled Triangle QYA equal to the Sector LC A , and consequently the Square QRST equal to the Circle BCD E , ) should , by the Arch C L , be cut just in the midst at P ; then would , not only ( which to his purpose was necessary ) QP L , CP Y , be equal each to other ( because of ALPY common both to the Triangle and the Sector ; ) but more-over ( which was not necessary ) each of them equal to the half of PA V , ( supposing CAV taken equal , by construction , to LA P : ) all which is true , in case of such a lucky hap : And finding then ( which is true also ) that this couldnot All happen , unless that intersection at P , were in the line AO ( drawn from the Center A to the middle of C G , )because this must needs pass through the middle of Q Y. Concluded , That it must needs so happen , or else it was impossible for Any right-angled Triangle , as QYA ( like to , and part of GC A , ) to be equal to the Sector LC A : because , in any other , as qyA the intersection of CL and qy atp , would not be just in the midst of q y ; and therefore ( which he supposed necessary , but was not ) qpA not just the half of qy A. Not considering ( which is his fundamental mistake ) that , if qpL and Cpy be equal each to other ( though neither of them be equal to the half of PA V , or of pA v ; nor yet qp equal to the half of q y , nor qpA to the half of qy A ; ( the Triangle qyA will be equal to the Sector LCA ( because ALpy is common to both ; ) and like to the Triangle GC A , and a part of it ; which he thought to have been impossible .

