]\gt ; Internal Ballistics .
By Lieut.-Colonel A. G. HADCOCK .
ated George Greenhill , Received October , 1917 .
) 1 .
My object is to explain and illustrate a method which I devisc for obtaining the prossure-volume relation of the gases in the bore of a gun , from the instant of ignition of the to the instant when the shot leaves the gun .
the aid of the expressions iveu 1elow , the pressurevolume curve , or the indicator diagram , of the cau be plotted the nature and of charge is given .
The rity of this problem , in comparison with ] similar problems of all kinds of tion engines other than the gun , is that energy is produced in the gun the burning of solid fuel within the gun itself during a considerable ction of the expansion stroke .
In other internal conl nstion erines , energy is added to the charge by bustion of the charge almosl at constant volume , and no account be taken of the of cumbntion of the fuel .
In the gun problem , the at which the charge is burnt , that is the rate energy is produced , is fundamental to any ation of the subject .
There is the additional complexity that a discontinuity in the expansion of the gases at the point where the charge is just .
Up to this ) oint expansion proceeds with the continuous addition of energy from the burning charge .
After point expansion proceeds nearly adiabatically .
The influence of the resistance of the driving band on the subsequent expansion of the gases , and on the maximum pressure produced by the charge , is another vital elenlent in the problem , Whichever of the possible mel.hods of thermodynalnics be chosen to solve the problem of internal ballistics , many assumptions have to be made to meet the conditions which arise in ] practice .
I have chosen to use the .pressure-volume equation for the expansion of the gas of the general form , a constant , because its constant can be more easily adjusted to neet the conditions found from experiments than with other methods .
is the pressure in tons per square the gravimetric volume of the charge .
( This artillery term will be ained later .
) is the fraction of the burnt .
is a constant called the co-volume .
ieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
2 .
of of the Charge .
The historical aspect of the subject up to 1875 has been dealt with by Noble and Abel .
* Since that date much has been done , and our knowledge of the subject has been greatly increased by Noble , and also by other experimenters .
The later enquiries have followed , almost without exception , Noble 's lead in making use of strong steei vessels or cylinders , closed by screw .
In this vessel the explosives have been burnt , and from the results the rate of of the explosive under different pressures has been determined , but the conclusions of the various investigators are by no means in agreement .
Although they all assume that combustion takes place by parallel layers from the outer surface of the explosive , and they concur that the rate of burning , or the thickness inches burnt per second , varies as the pressure raised to some power , they do not concur on the value to be assigned to the power .
Thus , in Sarrau 's determination , the power for the old French black gunpowder ; while , for similar powder , Sebert and Hugoniot , as a result of trials cal'ried out in a 10-cm .
gun , came to the conclusion that VieilleS adopts for colloidal powders , while Centerval for the Swedish type of tubular ballistite , found that Major Mansel ( 1903),1 from experiments carried out in closed vessels with cylindrical modified cordite , formulates the expression inches per second for the double thickness burnt off the diameter .
Captain Grave , of the Russian llery ( 1904 ) , for pyrocollodion powder , and Lees and Petavel , with Mark I cylindrical cordite , follow with similar results .
Petavel points out that the shape of the explosion vessel has a considerable effect on the cooling curve of the explosive .
selects as the value of the power for French B.lf .
powder , and Bianchi , SS of the Italian , also accepts a similar relation for Italianl ballistite .
The choice seems , therefore , to rest between the expressions per second for the double.thickness of the film burnt and , inches per second .
( 1 ) " " Researches on Explosi ves , Fired Gunpowder ' Phil. Trans vol. 165 , Part I. " " Researches on Explosives ' Phil. Trans ; vols .
205 and 206 .
'Memorial de l'Artillerie de la Marine , ' series 2 , vol. 1 ( 1882 ) .
'Memorial des Poudres et Salpetres , ' 1893 .
'Calcul des Ballistiques Interieurs , ' Stockholm , 1902 .
See also ' Phil. Trans , vol. 207 .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 79 .
Phil. Trans , vol. 'Memorial de l'Artillerie de la Marine , ' 33 , 1905 .
S 'Nozioni Fondamentali di Balistica Interna , ' Turin , 1914 .
Internal Ballistics .
In any case the constant is small , and the different values given ) it , and to , by the several investigators , may be partly due to the erences in the composition of the explosive , ) the presence of the firsf , -named constant and its variation seems to point conclusively to the cooling effect of the explosion vessel .
This effect would manifest itself principally when of low den sity were fired , and the observed pressures would consequently ) lower than the amount of powder burnt seemed to warrant .
In a the .
surface of the bore is continually increasing , so that inches per second , constant for the closed vessel , would on .
this hypothesis become a variable , and thus with Petavel 's observation .
It is usual to that , action losion is so rapid that the elfect of the bore may be ignored .
We shall therefore adopt the condition ( 1 ) , hich becolues for infinir , ely short of time , suitably selectil ) the value of ) , and accounting for the loss of energy by cooling and other Iosses\mdash ; such as the momentum of ) gun , friction in the bore , and the rotation of the shot by the , bj ' factor of effect , which is equivalenC assuming increase in the weight of the projectile .
factor also take into account wear of the gun .
Cordite , and other similar explosives , made by different makers , varies considerably in the rate of burnin This is due to the diversity of methods adopted in the lmanufacture , besides also the natural val.iations of the raw materials .
In order , therefore , to obtain the listics stipulated in the specification governing supply , the dry diameter of such cordite frequently differs from that o normal cordite .
The rate of burning consideled in this paper is that found by experiment for normal cordite .
For cylindrical modified cordite , heated to F. , before firing , the rate of radial combustion is Cl ; per second , on the diameter .
With tubular cordite there is reason for loelieving that the rate of bustion inside the tube is higher than that outside , to the enerated gases inside the tube having to escape .
This would induce a slightly greater pressure inside the tube than that outside .
There are two methods of dealing with this feature : by assuming a slight increase the of combustion for both and outside of the tube when compared with the combustion of cylindrical cordite ; ( b ) by assu1ning a different rate of combustion for the inside surface of the tube .
In the present case we shall adopt , and assume that the rate of combustion per second is instead ] .
This value was obtained independently , from actual ballistic results in a gun ( see Example 2 ) , but it Lieut. Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
corresponds with pressure coefficient of the fol.mula deduced from Table of ation of the Law of Burning of Modified Cordite .
This Table is the result of experimen ts with modified tubular cordite in closed vessels , and the formula I deduced from it is Reduction in annulus at .
in second If denotes the fraction of the charge burnt up to any time , then for sticks of explosive , of which the length is great in comparison to the other dimensions , it can be easily proved that , ( 2 ) where denotes some function of the sectional dimensions and the rate of per second , and is a function of Thns for solid cordite , of diametcl inches , the sectional area of burnt portion when a layer thickness has been consumed is Therefore the burnt fraction of the whole bp .
Again for tubular cordite of external diameter and internal diameter supposing the rate of burning of the interior to be the same as for the exterior , Similarly for strip powder of width and thickness It will be seen that of the general form ( 2 ) ; , for solid cylindrical cordite .
; , for tubular coldite .
; strip cordibe .
* Mansell , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 207 , No. 418 .
Internal Ballistics .
3 .
Eqli tion of Expansion .
Again density is an artillery term which really means the specific gravity of a charge of powder if considered to uniformly occupy some definite space .
This space is that between the base of the projectile and the breech of the gun ; it continually changing as the shot moves the bore , , consequently , the specific oravity of the charge the same time .
density is therefore the ratio of the of the of powder to the water which would fill the space in a behind the projeotilP .
The gravimetric volume is the reciprocal of the gravimetl.ic density .
In the etric system , since weight of a cubic decimetre of , at standard temperature , is 1 kgrlu .
, the vimelric density ( or it is called in France the " " density de chargement is and the gravinletric volume where is in ammes and in .
Witb English units at the standard temperature of F. the of the gallon of .
of water , of the Act of Parliameut , is inches3 , or a cubic foot of water lb. ; thus lb. If is in inches3 and lb. , the avimetric density and the gravimetric volume .
In the United States the gallon of water is taken to occupy cubic inches , which corresponds to a density of water of about .
per cubic foot at a temperature of F. , if represents the travel , in feet , of the projectile the equivalent length of the ambe , ( i.e. , the of a chamber of cross-sectional area equal to , the area in square inches of the bore , and of chamber capacity in cubic inches , thus the equivalent length ) , then for any point in the bore the etric volume of the is Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
or differentiating by putti the equivalent of in feet of the bore for one gravimetric volume .
lVhe a fraction of the has ) burnt , the space occupied by the solid unbul.nt portion of the charge is , if is the density of the explosive ompared with water , inches3 , so that the available gas space behind the projectile is 12 inches3 .
The actual gravimetlic volume of the gas for the fraction of the charge burnt is therefore or putting , ( 4 ) where is t'ne gravimetric volume the whole charge had been converted into gas .
The constant is commonly called the co-volume , in cubic inches per pound , and equals for M.D. COl'dibe of which the density , compared with water , is , i.e. , cubic inches of the explosive will If gas , produced from the proportion of the charge burnt , expands doing work on the shell , heat is lost , supposing no more cordite is consumed during this process .
But actually the cordite continues to burn and imparts additional heat to the already generated gas .
There would be thus , during expansion , a loss of heat and at the same time a continual fresh supply of heat until the charge had been completely burnt .
The expansion is , therefore , neither purely adiabatic nor is it isothermal but something between the two .
Probably no single condition satisfies the whole process , but for our purpose the mean exponent is sufficiently explicit .
The co-efficient of adiabatic expansion of the gases of modern gunpowders Internal llistics .
is usually taken as , while that for isothermal expansion is 1 ; the coefficient of expansion up to the time of the total consumption of the cordite is therefore taken as the mean between these two values , viz. , In the following investigation it is assumed that the gas generated at volume from any fraction of the charge , expands in accordance with the , a constant , the index chosen betweell the value for adiabatic expansion and 1 isothermal expansion , namely Or more conyeniently by eq. ( 4 ) ( 5 ) The value of depends largely on the frictional to motion of the shot .
It is evident from the form of this equation that for different values of the pressures and volumes follow clearly defined curves .
4 .
for Valnos of A group of expansion curves for different values of is shown in fig. 1 ; ) are hyperbolic in character , and the asymptotes are the axis of and the vertical line .
In this figure the trace of these curves , which may be termed isopyric lines , has been drawn for , etc. , so that if two of the three variables are known the third can be determined .
Thus , knowing and , the can be found at once .
5 .
The Equation and the of The initial resistance , during copper driving band , which is fitted to the projectile to give rotation , plays a most important part in the development of both the gas pressure and the velocity of the shot .
The greater this initial resistance is , the earlier the maximum chamber pressure will be attained , and the higher will be this pressure and the muzzle velocity .
The discussion of this part of the subject is deferred to the end of this paper , but mention is made of it here so that the reader mderstand that , and are the pressure , gravimetric volume , velocity of the shot and fraction of the arge burnt , when the of the copper band is completed .
The erher resistance while the band is being engraved will alter the value of the constant to , so that at the end of the raving process the gases generated from the proportion of the charge would expand according to the equation a constant .
Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
Volumes If is the pressure , fig. 2 , which the generated gases at would have if expanded to , then or The pressure at volume is increased by an increment due to the burnin of a further proportion of cordite .
Therefore , by algebraical reduction Again Internal Ballistics .
or generally .
( 6 ) At any the pressure and from the hypothesis proportion of the expansion suppose .
So that .
Also .
Therefore .
Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
When approaches very close to where represents generally this value of in ( 6 ) we get .
Therefore : and we may write generally for the mean pressure in the bore .
the explosive is burnt ; we shall then put and .
Thus .
( 8 ) has been found with modified cordite and the present form of Service driving bands that the value of and of , so that 6 .
Pressur in the The pressule in tons per square inch on the face of the breech screw is greater than that acting on the base of the projectile .
Experiment proves this to be bhe case .
Crusher inserted in the base of the projectile always give a lower pressure reading than those placed in the chamber at the breech .
It is reasonable to suppose that the pressure in the bore falls more or less regularly the ) reech to the base of the shot , and that the mean rate of burning of the explosive is that due to the mean pressure in the bore .
The unburnt ) ortion of the charge is assumed to be sp read out equally 0VG the space between the breech of the gun and the base of the projectile .
Let the velocity in feet per second of the shot relative to the gun , the mean velocity of the charge , the presstlre in tons per square inch on the breech and that on the base of the shot , the weight in pounds of the projectile and that of the charge , A the area in square inches of the bore , the coefficient of friction , supposed proportional to , of the shot passing along the bore , and the coefficient of friction of the gases in the bore .
Internal Ballistucs .
At the breech the monlentunl of the and projectile is sec. tons , and the impressed force is A At the base of the shot the momentnm is -sec .
tons , and the impressed force is A and A. The mean frictional resistance of the is unknown ; it may be included in general loss and accounted for in the factor of effect .
Therefore ) factor of effect , we obtain , It is found that the value of vbich suits practical esults best is ; then for the mean pressure , ( 9 ) for cnience , and .
10 7 .
The equation of motion of the is ( tons ) where includes the frictional and other losses , estimated as a fraction .
If is the velocity , in feet .
second , of the projectile at any moment then by ( ) the above expression can be written jp , 1 if for convenience we put instead of Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
pressure and dt by ( 2 ) between limits and and ( 11 ) result is identical with except that he assumes the , immediately after the driving band has been raved , whereas it may attain to a considerable nitude .
Since is the velocity at any moment , gives the.distance ( ft. ) which the shot moves in ( sec. ) , and now making the datum point or origin Putting , from 3 ) , ond eliminating by ( 2 ) we get by ( 7 ) ( 12 ) between limits ) and and and putting , ( 13 ) where Tables I and II different values of and for cylindrical and tubular modified cordite .
As known from the initial conditions , equation ( 13 ) gives the volume and hence Qtance for any proportion of the burnt .
The ondino .
pressure from ( 7 ) and the velocity from ( 11 ) .
When the corresponding volume and pressure will be denoted by and the muzzle of the by 1 and Artillery .
Jnternal llistics .
VOL. VCIV.\mdash ; A. Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
Internal Ballistics .
After , when the whole of the has been converted ordinary batic expansion is tlssumed to take place , so that where , and or is the mean pressure in the bore .
the equation of 11lotion of the shot in the forll we obtain from the above general condition and Integrating between limits ?
and , where is the muzzle velocity : hcre r is the ravimetric volume of expansion at the muzzle , ( 14 ) or its value from ( S ) and ( 15 ) where alue of ?
is obtained from ( 11 ) and ( 20 ) The mean pressure of the gas when the projectile is just leaving the muzzle is obtained at once from the general condition ( 17 ) 8 .
It is important to know the maximum pressure and its position in the gun .
To find this position , differentiate equation ( 7 ) in the form .
Thus since is a constant for any particular set of conditions For a maximum alue of 1 , and or Eliminating between this equation and ( 12 ) , writing and Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
for the of ?
respectively , corresponding with the maximum value of , the following expression is obtained : that AgailI from equation ( 13 ) by treating and as corresponding to ximum value of and transposing .
( 18 ) We have therefore from these two expressions the relation .
( 19 ) Since and are known from the initial conditions can be found from Tables I and II , cau then be found from equation ( 18 ) .
9 .
Rcsistance of Driving Band .
When a projectile , fitted with a copper or other metal ving band , is forced through a short rifled cylinder by hydraulic pressure , the resistance offered by the band depends on the amount of copper to be forced through the rifling grooves .
It depends also on the clearance in rear of the band between the projectile and the gun bore .
There.are two general forms of driving band in use , viz. , ( a ) that with a parallel profile of which the external diameter is a littlo larger than the diameter over the rifling grooves in the gun , ( b ) the gas-check type with a tapered profile of which the diameter , towards the base of the projectile , rests against the front cone of the gun chamber and so seals it .
The flat profile of the first type of band does not as a rule properly seal the chamber .
The resistance of this band to being forced into the rifling appears to depend on the total shearing circumference of the rifling , and the experimental results already collected seem to with this .
With the -check type of band , actual trial shows that in many cases the maximum takes place before the band has entered the rifling , that is to say , the maximum pressure is deyeloped in deforming the copper , or metal of the band , in forcing it through a diameter smaller than itself .
Ballistics .
Experiments with standard and other bands are still in progress , but the results are not sufficiently advanced for publication .
Only one or two formS are consequently dealt with for the purpose of the present paper , The shape of the band differs in most cases , and it is in the larger natures that the bands are made proportional to the diafneter of the No general law can at present be laid down for the resistance .
For a correct determil)ation , recourse must be had to experiments with each type of to the wear of the band in velocity , the amount of copper iu the section must be considerably greater than with that intended for low velocity .
It is usnally ]JIeferable to add to the amount of copper where necessary , by increasing the diameter of the ) The resistance begins with a fairly } ) rise , and the cnrve usually takes a parabolic .
form ; it then flattens , and when about two-thirds of the band is raved , the resistance gradually falls until the completed .
The curve then runs parallel to the datum line .
Tn a gun , during the brief period of band , the velocit attained by the pro , ectile is never and it therefore , be assumed that the resistance is similar to that in the statical cylinders .
As the shot avels a the bore the band wears ; moreover , the pressure on the rifling which produces rotation is\mdash ; broadly\mdash ; proportional to the gas pressure .
We may , therefore , fairly assu1ne that the tance of the balld after is proportional to the ) resHure .
If the cnrve of resistance during the raving process is assumed to ) a parabola , we shall not be greatly in error , especially if we take intu account the mean resistance in the calculation .
The pressure may also be assnmed with even nor correctness to rise as a parabola during the engra vof the band .
In that the resistance and pressnre are ) and the fornltllae already found apply , the constants must , however , be changed to suit the conditions .
Thus let be the gas pressure at any instant the resistance at the same instant , hetl by ( 2 ) and ( 9 ) .
Put , a fraction , is therefore also equal to the ratio of the mealL values of ( 1 and multiplied by B. Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
, starting with the shot at rest and , and , for putting .
( 20 ) But as 1 ) Until the band is fully engraved theJ'efore or , integrating between limits , the .
gravi1netric volume of the mber efore the shot moves , and and ( 21 ) is and found from the column in Tables .
If these values satisfy the pressioIJ ( 23 ) they are the correct values .
Then can be found from equation ( 20 ) .
The correct values of and are most easily found raphically by plotting the curve eq. ( 23 ) , then from ( 21 ) plotting values of and The point where these lines intersect ives p and In the above investigations we have , for the sake of convenience , alen the important process of ving the driving band last ; but actually immediately the charge in the gun is ignited gas is generated , and begins to force the driving band into the grooves .
As the gas pressure during this operation is compal.atively low , the actual engraving occupies quite an appreciable , bnt after the band is raved the pressure in the rapidly lises to its inlum , subsequently falling until the whole of the charge burnt .
It not possible for the maximum ) ressure to take place the comtion of the charge is completed , but the maximum pressure and the completion of the combustion may occur at the same instant .
Internal listics .
By solving formula ( 13 ) the position in the gum at which all the charge is burnt is found .
Whether the charge is completely burnt before the shot reaches the muzzle is of great importance from a artillery point of view , because it is found that regularity as fards r and deflection is obtained when the is all consnmed at a point in the some distance from the 10 .
of ctions and In ( to ll1tke use of these formulae I have culated , see , the values of and lnodified cyli n perience has that it is very rarely that so large a fraction of the is burnt as before the is fully engraved .
Similar and functions ( see Table ) lnodified tubular also been ] ated .
The value of cordite inlmediately obtained , as it is identical with It should be 1lote that hc of radial burning , inches per second , to be lnodified if the diameter of the central hole is unduly reduced .
To illustrate the , method of .
the -volume , I chosen an example from ordinary modified cylindrical cordite and one from ulodified tubular cordite .
The driving band in each case was identical , but the guns differed both as length and capacity of challlbel .
The factor of may vary considerably , as , in the same gun with different batches of cordite of the same nature , the ballistics actually obtained may differ by .
in velocity with a corresponding variation in pressure .
For eylindrical cordite the function .
X the natio was perfollned by approximate ation .
For tubular cordite Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
the X an functions were obtained by approximate tcgratioIL .
The will show the general method of calculati ( 1 ) Gun , 6-inch , 50-calibre : total bore capacity , including chamber , 9268 cubic inches ; ) .
capacity , 1658 cubic inches ; area of bore , including square inches ; lb. modified cordite , inches .
actual mean obtained with a shot of .
was eaIJ chamber essure of tons per square inch .
band used of cupro-nickel , and its mean resistarlce , when orced t a ifled cylinder , was found to be tons per square inch of bore area a dista1lce of feet .
in .
initial gravimetric volume of the charge is When the band has fully enGel.ed the rifling , the projectile bas advanced a distance feet , thus incl.easing the chamber capacity by 49 cubic .
The at this is or At the muzzle the gravimetric volume is The constants 2 and 2 ' should now be found Batlistics .
the factor of effect to be , then tknd as It is necessary to find the ballistic conditions when the just fully engraved .
Equation ( 21 ) , together with the expression enables to be found .
Therefore or From eq. ( 22 ) Suppose , then and from Table I , Column If tons , or tons , Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
squared paper ( see fig. .3 ) , from to the curve and draw a curve the three points found above .
Where these curves intersect , tons , , is the pressure in the gun 9 .
nd the fraction of the charge burnt when the driving band is just fullyengraved .
FIG. 3 .
The position in the gun , where the combustion of the charge is is found from equation ( 13 ) .
From I ) interpolation Intermal Ballistics .
The pressure can be found from eq. ( 8 ) tons/ inch2 mean pressure .
The velocity of the shot at the completion of combu , is by and by Table 1 , After the charge is burnt adiabatic expansion takes place according to the ression const .
The mean pressure For maximum pressure , use eq. Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
Table I by , the fraction of the charge burnt when the pressure is developed is , X volumes , tons/ inch2 .
is the mean pressure in the bore behind the projectile when it has anced to a distance equivalent to volumes .
The pressure on the breech screw face is tons/ inch2 .
( 2 ) A charge of oz. of modified tubular cordite gave , in a 6-inch -calibre , an actual muzzle of 2797 .
to a projeotile hing 1 .
The chambel pressure , as by crusher auges , was tons ) square inch .
The dry dimensions of the cordite tubes were external diameter inch and internal diameter inch .
The capacity of the chamber was 1715 cubic inches and the total capacity of the gun bore S550 cubic inches .
The same driving band was used on the projectile as that in the previous example .
in .
We have ; ; ; Internal llistics .
503 The factor of effect will be taken as ; the constants and are then and , , In order to find we have and eq. ( 21 ) By plotting , as in the first example and assuming , in order to obtain the value of , that tons , and 3 tons per square inch , will be found that and The position in the gun where combustion is completed is iven by From Table II by interpolation .-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
fLnd whence the pressme whsn combustion is completed RJld The velocity of the projectile at the completion of combustion is obtained from 'herefore so After the charge is burnt the same formula as for Example 1 is used , so that pressure Frorn ) II we find that the fraction of the charge burnt when the maximum pressure is developed is Internal Baltistics .
From Table II and and since , This is the mean pressure in the bore .
At the breech the lnaximunl pressnre The results of the calculation of Example 1 are plotted in ; the isopyric lines begin with that for , the fraction of the charge burnt when the band is just raved .
The trace of this curve follows the equation The remainder of these curves for , etc. , follow the equation where The pressure curve begins at at , it rises nearly vertically until it reaches a value of tons when it cuts the isopyric line As the pressure curve continues to rise to its maximum , and then to fall , intersects the remainder of the isopyric lines , so that the ives , for any mean tJas pressure in the gun , the position of the shot and the fraction of the burnt .
When the has just been compleLely burnt the pressure curve joins the isopyric line .
After this the expansion proceeds adiabatically until the shot leaves the gun .
This figure has been plotted for convenience with equal to 1 , A 3 , etc. The velocity curve is shown in the and-dot line ; when the driv band is just engraved the projectile ] a velocity of 77 The pressure curve can be more expeditiously drawn by using arithmic ruled paper , as shown in fig. .
The isop yric curves then become a group of inclined parallel lines .
Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
Internal llistics .
* Lieut.-Colonel A. G. Hadcock .
The maximum pressure found above of tons per square inch on the breech is nearly a ton too high , as found by the crusher gauges , but usually the usher g , placed loose in the gun at the breech , are carried forward with the rush of gas , so that the pressure registered by Ballistics .
them may be that due to some intermediate position between the breech and the shot .
This is borne out by an experiment lately carried out with a small bore gun a long chamber .
Fixed crusher gauges were inserted in the chamber ( a ) at 2 inches from the breech end , and ( b ) at inches from the first-named gauge , as shown in fig. 6 .
The mean pressure of three rounds ( charge 1 oz. 11 drams modified cordite , diameter inch ) was at ( a ) tons per square inch , at ( b ) l5 15 tons .
With a charge of 1 oz. 12 drams modified cordite , diameter inch , the mean of thrce rounds was at ( a ) tons , at ( b ) tons per square inch .
The projectile was fitted with a copper driving band and weighed in all the experiments 6 oz. The maximum pressure in this experimental gum will take place at about double the distance ( b ) is from , so that applying the above rule for the difference of pressures , those actually obtained are closely approximated to .
Hefferman*finds from experience formulae equivalent to for cylindrical cordite , for tubes .
While Lissak .
finds with powder with a decreasing surface like cylindrical cordite , a value of The values found in the above examples are cylindrical cordite for tubular They will , however , vary in every case .
* See ' Internal Ballistics , ' 1907 .
'Ordnance and Gunnery , ' New York , 1907 .
VOL. XCIV.\mdash ; A.

