134 Mr. E. H. Whitehouse .
[ Oct. 30 , area .
While our " Motor A " corresponds in position fairly closely with his Feldern 4 and 6 ( area gigantopyramidalis and area frontalis agranularis ) , the larger dots which in our figures represent the region in which the largest pyramids may be found are spread over practically the same as his Feldern 4 .
None of his types appears to correspond with our " Motor B. " But its position at its posterior end is occupied in his figure with the lower end of his area post centralis ( Feldern 1 to 3 ) .
Our post-central cortex occupies much the same position as his area praeparietalis ( Feldern 5 ) , except that it does not extend so far downwards on the lateral surface .
With regard to the temporal and olfactory regions we are in fair agreement .
] The Caudal Fin of Fishes ( Paper ) .
By Richard H. Whitehouse , M.Sc .
Birm .
( ( Communicated by Prof. F. W. Gamble , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received October 30 , \#151 ; Read December 9 , 1909 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE I.\#151 ; Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 134 II.\#151 ; Types of Caudal Fin\#151 ; 1 .
Protocercy ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
135 2 .
Heterocercy ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
136 3 .
Homocercy ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
138 4 .
Gephyrocercy ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 142 III.\#151 ; Morphology of Parts ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
142 I.\#151 ; Introduction .
The aim of the present paper is to give , as concisely as possible , the summary of two years ' work on the caudal fins of fishes and also to revise the .definitions relating to the different types of caudal fin .
The revision of the .definitions of old established names such as protocercy , heterocercy , etc. , has proved to be quite essential owing to the vagueness and even errors connected with these terms so much in evidence in text-books of zoology ; this vagueness undoubtedly exists , or otherwise such mistakes as attributing diphycercy to such types as the Gadidce and the eels would not occur as they do .
I have \#166 ; also been assured by several eminent teachers of zoology that the subject needs clearing up .
The Caudal Fin of Fishes .
1909 .
] The whole of my work has included the examination of well over a hundred \#166 ; different species of fishes representative of nearly all the sub-groups of Teleosts , several Ganoids , and a fewr Elasmobranchs .
Probably the most interesting results have been obtained from the and and the frequent misinterpretations to be read on the caudal fin of these groups has convinced me that caudal fins have not been subjected to a sufficiently .close structural examination ; for this reason I have made a point of .examining microscopically every tail fin , and have invariably subjected each one to clearing agents , a process which has revealed many features it is impossible to recognise by mere dissection .
Since this must be considered only a preliminary communication , it should .be remarked that the statements here made will be discussed in detail and substantiated by examples in the near future .
The work was suggested by , and carried out under the supervision of , the late Professor Bridge , F.R.S. ; I would like to take this opportunity of expressing my deepest thanks to many friends who have supplied me with material and given valuable ^criticisms .
II.\#151 ; Types of Caudal Fin .
It is now generally admitted that the specialised caudal fin of fishes has ibeen evolved from a commou type called the protocercal , and that this primitive type was originally part of a continuous median fin .
By the upturning of the end of the axis , heterocercy was established , the form exemplified by modern Elasmobranchs and Ganoids .
Specialisation of the heterocercal form produced the homocercal , as seen in the adult Teleost .
1 .
Protocercy.\#151 ; A protocercal fin may be defined as one which is primitively symmetrical externally and internally .
This implies that the tail has not \#166 ; undergone any reduction or modification of the original form .
It is probably correct to say that no true fishes possess a protocercal tail in the adult condition ; the Cyclostomes are generally credited with having \#166 ; protocercal tails , but it is likely that even here a degenerate condition is present .
It will be well to state clearly what is meant by an internally and .externally symmetrical caudal fin .
Internal symmetry depends on the endo-skeleton ; the chorda must end in a perfectly straight line , and the supports .of the fin-rays must be equal in number and kind dorsally and ventrally ; thus the dorsal and ventral fin-rays contributing to the caudal fin must be .equal in number and similarly supported .
External symmetry obviously .depends on the equal size of the dorsal and ventral lobes of the fin .
Unfortunately , the terms protocercal and diphycercal have come to be regarded by authors as synonymous ; strictly speaking , the term diphycercal applies to a caudal fin which is quite symmetrical externally and internally , Mr. R H. Whitehorse .
[ Oct , 30r with no qualification regarding its primitive or secondary symmetry ; thus it is a little vague .
Primitive diphycercy is synonymous with protocercy , and secondary diphycercy with gephyrocercy , which will be dealt with later .
If this distinction were always kept in mind when speaking of caudal fins , much inconvenience would be avoided .
For all practical purposes , the term diphycercy may be dismissed ; it may , however , be retained as applying to a caudal fin which it may not be wise or possible to refer to as protocercal or gephyrocercal , owing to lack of definite knowledge regarding its primitive or secondary nature .
Since all fishes first possess a protocercal tail in the embryonic condition , , it seems quite safe to infer that it is the true primitive form .
As all the complications of the specialised caudal fin of Teleosts have to be evolved from this primitive type , one of the first questions which arises is , \#151 ; How were the-fin-rays of the protocercal tail supported ?
It is probably impossible to say but since the caudal fin formed only a part of an undifferentiated median fin system , it is not unreasonable to conclude that they were supported in a manner exactly similar to that by which the fin-rays of the rest of the-median fin were supported ; now all the rays of the median fins , with the-exception of the caudal , in modern fishes , are invariably supported by radials or somactids , hence it may be that radials were once the supporting elements in the caudal .
Embryology lends little aid in substantiating this , because before development has proceeded far , the shape of the caudal becomes modified into the heterocercal form .
As a final word regarding protocercy , it must not be supposed that the term is always associated with a continuous median fin ; during development , in Teleosts which have differentiated median fins , the elements of the permanent differentiated fins are laid down before heterocercy is established , , so that there is evidence for supposing that differentiation occurred before heterocercy was adopted .
2 .
Heterocercy.\#151 ; A heterocercal caudal fin may be defined as one in which the extremity of the chorda is directed upwards , and as a consequence is-unsymmetrical externally and internally , the ventral lobe being greater than the dorsal ; and , moreover\#151 ; and this is a most important feature , to which I have not seen attention drawn\#151 ; when centra are formed , these elements remain distinct to the end of the axis .
To each of these three features exceptions will be found ; for example , many heterocercal tails are of slender build and somewhat lash-like , and consequently there is frequently no appreciable upturning of the axis : Chlamydoselachus is a case in point , and often the common dog-fish illustrates the same thing .
Regarding the externally unsymmetrical shape , exceptions The Caudal Fin of Fishes .
1909 .
] are much rarer , but Amia may be considered to have an externally symmetrical tail-fin ; the external form of Polyodon , too , is a very close approximation to symmetry ; however , internal asymmetry seems to be universal in these cases .
The condition concerning the presence of distinct centra to the end of the axis seems to have several exceptions , e.g. , dontus ; a close examination of the extremity of the axis will show a comparatively elongated cone equal in length to several of the preceding vertebras ; this shows no sign of having been separate vertebrae previously , Text-fig .
1.\#151 ; Caudal fin of Heterodontm d.c.r. , dorsal caudal radial ; h.a. , haemal arch ; hy .
, hypural ; n.a. , neural arch .
v.c.r. , ventral caudal radial .
and thus it is not safe to conclude that it is a urostyle ; however , some may prefer to regard it as an incipient urostyle , but it never occupies anything but a very insignificant part of the upturned axis .
Concerning the endoskeletal supports of the heterocercal caudal fin , on the dorsal side , immediately above a series of neural arches , is a series of radials ( text-fig .
1 , d.c.r. ) supporting the fin-rays ; for the greater part of the caudal fin , these radials remain distinct from the arches , as do those of the dorsal fin in front , though to a greater extent , but towards the extremity they fuse Mr. R. H. Whitehouse .
[ Oct. 30 " with them to form a single cartilage .
On the ventral side the fin-rays are supported for nearly the whole length of the fin by cartilages directly connected with the vertebral axis ; but at the anterior end of the fin there are frequently a few radials quite distinct from the haemal arches , and supporting fin-rays ; immediately following , the radials are seen to have fused with the arches , and the line of fusion is often retained .
The caudal fins of Galeusand Acanthias are good examples .
Since I believe the majority of the ventral fin-ray supports to be double structures , formed by the fusion of radials with haemal arches , I have called them liypurals .
The caudal fin of Amia has been called hemi-heterocercal ; it is perhaps the most highly specialised of heterocercal tails and closely approaches the homocercal of the Teleosts .
For this reason the term liemi-homoeercal seems to me a more suitable term .
But it has an essential feature of heterocercy , namely , the retention of individual vertebrae to the end of the vertebral axis .
3 .
Homocercy.\#151 ; Before entering on this type of caudal fin it will be-necessary to call attention to a proposed modification of nomenclature with respect to three parts of the endoskeleton .
Full reasons will be given later , , and I will here merely define the terms as understood in the present paper .
Any epaxial element , which is directly connected with the vertebral axis , , and which supports one or more fin-rays distally , will be called an epural or epural bone .
In the second place the structures usually spoken of by previous authors as epurals will here be called dorsal caudal radials ; they consist of free slender bones situated epaxially , supporting fin-rays at their distal ends .
The third term to draw attention to is " last vertebral segment , " which will be used to imply the last vertebra together with the urostyle if such is present .
The homocercal caudal fin , which is characteristic of the Teleostei , is to be considered a specialised form of the heterocercal type .
The term homocercal is very broad in application ; however , a caudal fin which is externally symmetrical , but in which the majority of the fin-rays are supported internally by hypaxial elements , and in which a urostyle is present either in the adult or at some time during larval history , may safely be referred to as a homocercal caudal fin .
Except for two genera , Fierasfer and Orthcigoriscus , mentioned by liyder* as gephyrocercal , it is probable that there is no case among the Teleostei , where a caudal fin is present , in which the tail is not homocercal .
The aim of the present remarks is merely to present to the reader three* J. A. Ryder , " Evolution of the Fins of Fishes , " 'Rep .
U.S. Comm , of Fish and Fisheries , ' 1884 , pub .
1886 .
The Caudal Fin of Fishes .
139 ' 1909 .
] forms of the homocercal fin , in order to illustrate the process of specialisation in this type , and to state very briefly conclusions as to the morphological value of the endoskeletal supports of the fin-rays .
( a ) Clupea pilchardus(Malacopterygii).\#151 ; The caudal fin of this fish is taken as illustrating one of the least specialised of homocercal forms .
Text-fig .
2.\#151 ; Caudal fin of Clupea pilchardus .
d.c.r. , dorsal caudal radial ; ep .
, epural ; hi/ .
, hypural ; l.v. , last vertebra ; n. , notochord ; n.a. , neural arch ; o.c. , opisthural cartilage ; ur .
, urostyle .
A careful reference to the above figure will render a full description unnecessary ; the points to which special attention is drawn are ( 1 ) th\amp ; presence of a pronounced urostyle ; ( 2 ) the presence of the notochord beyond the end of the actual vertebral column ; ( 3 ) the large number of hypural bones , viz. , seven , associated with the last vertebral segment ; and ( 4 ) the presence of an epural bone to the penultimate vertebra .
A careful comparison of a large number of Teleostean caudal fins has led me to regard these as the features which characterise a lowly specialised homocercal caudal fin .
( b ) Trigla lineata ( Acanthopterygii).\#151 ; The caudal fin of Trigla lineata illustrates a fairly intermediate type between the lowly and highly specialised homocercal form .
Mr. R. H. Whitehouse .
[ Oct. 30 , Text-fig .
3.\#151 ; Caudal fin of Trigla lineata as seen after clearing .
d.c.r. , dorsal caudal radial ; hy .
, hypural ; l.v. , last vertebra ; n.a. , neural arch ; sp.c .
, spinal cord ; ur .
, urostyle .
The above figure shows the structure of the endoskeleton as it appears after the bones have been cleared in xylol or turpentine , for , only by so doing can the exact structure he followed .
Now by comparing the features here figured with those of , it will be seen in what direction specialisation has been at work .
( 1 ) The whole of the exserted notochord has been aborted ; this implies considerable abbreviation .
( 2 ) The urostyle is no longer a well-marked independent structure , but is reduced almost to extinction , and has become incorporated with a hypural bone ; this is one of the most important effects of specialisation .
( 3 ) Another point of difference from the preceding type is the presence of four hypurals , in the place of seven , to the last vertebral segment ; concentration has occurred , the smaller number being most probably due to the lateral fusion of several ; this reduction in the number of hypurals to the last vertebral segment has the effect of producing much greater rigidity and hence usefulness .
( 4 ) Although not an invariable rule , a reduced neural arch to the penultimate vertebra , as exhibited in , is usually associated with a specialised homocercal caudal fin ; no satisfactory explanation of this can as yet be given .
( c ) Lophius piscatorius ( Pediculati).\#151 ; An extreme type of specialised liomocercy is illustrated by the caudal fin of Lophius .
1909 .
] The Caudal Fin of Fishes .
All the dermotrichia are hypaxial , to the total exclusion of the dorsal contribution to the fin .
There is practically only one hypural , although this is cleft distally , showing it to be composed of at least two ; the last vertebral segment and the hypural become one bone , and indistinguishably fused together .
The spinal cord can be traced to the end of the hypural bone .
A more specialised type of homocercy can scarcely be expected .
In the three preceding types , a broad outline of the effects of specialisation in homocercal tails is shown , and it will be seen that great abbreviation of the axis and restriction of the caudal fin to hypaxial rays are among the chief .
Abbreviation is demonstrated by the excessive reduction of the urostyle and the consequent concentration of the supporting elements of the rays ; but also\#151 ; and this is a point which does not seem to have been noticed before\#151 ; by the presence of the spinal cord beyond the actual termination of the vertebral axis ; this last feature seems to be universal in instances of more advanced homocercy .
Practically all the gradations between the three forms of homocercy described are to be found among other Teleosts .
Special attention has been directed to ascertain whether the various grades in specialisation corresponded with the general classification which is .
based on specialised features in general , with a view to discovering whether the structure of the caudal fin could be used as a factor in classifying fishes .
It has been found , however , that the successive grades of specialisation in the caudal fin do not correspond with the order of classification given by Boulenger in the Cambridge Natural History ; and hence it may be said that , in general , the caudal fin structure may not be depended upon as a taxonomic feature .
However , this fin need not be totally ignored in this connection , and it is likely that it may be useful in minor classification ; for example , in the Perciformes , the Serranidce possess a comparatively lowly specialised homocercal caudal , while the VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; b. M Text-fig .
4.\#151 ; Caudal fin of Lophius piscatorius .
der .
, dermotrichia cut short ; hy .
, hypural ; l.v.y last vertebra .
142 Mr. R. H. Whitehouse .
[ Oct. 30 , Labridce are provided with a highly specialised form , and this corresponds very well with specialised features in general .
4 .
Gephyrocercy.\#151 ; Something must be said concerning the gepliyrocercal caudal fin , since the tendency , unfortunately , has been to depart from the true definition of the term .
Gephyrocercy is synonymous with secondary diphycercy ; to be gephyrocercal , the tail must have lost its original caudal fin , and the secondary fin have been formed by the union , round the abbreviated extremity , of the rays of the dorsal and ventral median fins ; moreover , it must be perfectly symmetrical externally and internally , so that the dorsal and ventral rays are equal in number .
Such a caudal fin has been observed in two forms only among the Teleostei , viz. , Fierasferand Orthagoriscus , as Ryder has pointed out .
Dollo* gives gephyrocercy a very wide application , attributing it to most forms which have a continuous median fin , such as the eels ; but I believe that all these forms can be shown to possess homocercal caudal fins .
Several authors have followed Dollo 's statements , and some mis-statements will require correction ; for example , Mastacembeluis usually considered to possess a gephyrocercal caudal fin , whereas its internal structure is as typically homocercal as could be desired .
As yet , I have not been able to study the caudal fin of the Dipnoi in detail , but it is highly probable that this group will be found to afford the best examples of the gephyrocercal form .
There are many other terms which are sometimes used in connection with caudal fins , but I believe that the four terms here dealt with , viz. , protocercal , heterocercal , homocercal , and gephyrocercal will include any type of piscine caudal fin likely to be met with .
* III.\#151 ; Morphology of Parts .
A word will be necessary on the morphology of the various parts of the endoskeleton .
Opinions are undivided on the nature of the urostyle ; this structure is the result of the fusion of several vertebrae which occupied the upturned part of the vertebral axis .
After a careful examination of the caudal fins of a large number of Teleosts , and also of some Elasmobranclis and Ganoids , I have come to the conclusion that there is very considerable evidence that the hypurals of the fin are , in general , the result of the fusion of radials or somactids with haemal arches ; apart from actual evidences , I hope to bring forward in the early future strong theoretical reasons why this should be so .
There is * " Sur la pliylogenie des dipneustes , " ' Bulletin de la Society Beige de Geologie , ' etc. , vol. 9 , p. 93 , 1895 .
1909 .
] The Caudal Fin of Fishes .
reason for supposing that the caudal fin was supported primarily in a manner similar to that of other median fins , and that the present hypaxial supports are only a modification of this primary form .
Modification was inevitable owing to the adoption of a propulsive function by the tail , and fusion of parts was adopted to ensure the requisite strength .
In a large number of caudal fins , the line of fusion can still be traced in the adult .
The same thing applies to the formation of epurals ; they consist of neural arches fused with radials or somactids .
It should , however , be remarked that it does not necessarily follow that every hypural and epural is a compound structure , since , if necessary , there is no reason why a haemal arch or a neural arch should not itself support fin-rays ; in fact , this frequently appears to be the case , but only in connection with the small rays at the anterior end of the fin .
However , radials do not always fuse with neighbouring parts of the skeleton of the caudal fin , but frequently remain free ; such is more usually the case dorsally , though radials commonly remain as such ventrally , too .
This point needs to be emphasised , for it is sometimes assumed that radials or somactids do not share the support of the caudal fin-rays\#151 ; at any rate ventrally .
Unfortunately , the species chosen for this paper do not illustrate this hypaxially , but Clwpea and Triglapossess radials dorsally .
The persistence of dorsal radials is interesting as illustrating that , under adverse conditions , such as overcrowding , due to excessive upturning of the end of the axis\#151 ; the radials have persisted while the corresponding neural arches have disappeared or have been greatly reduced .
In conclusion , a detailed study of the piscine caudal fin has forced me to support the theory that the present homocercal caudal is , in reality , a posterior anal , which owes its present position to the great abbreviation of the axis , coupled with the excessive upturning of the end of the chorda .
I will even go so far as to suggest that the heteroeercal Elasmobranchs may come to be considered as affording evidence for this view , and I hope before long to present all my reasons for conside ration .

