]\gt ; 1894 .
] , and IJissociation of Molecules of Liquids .
171 II .
' The Complexity and the Dissocintion of the Molecules of Liquids By Professor W. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Reccived 1894 .
Sillce the publication of a on the molecular complexity of liquids by Ramsay and Shields ( ' Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 63 , p. 1191 ) two questions have al.isen:\mdash ; First : What other evidence is there as to the existence of complex molecules in certain liquids Second : How can the amount of dissociation of associating liquids be inferred from measnrements of their The first of these questions has been trcnted of by Professor Philippe Guye , in the ' des Sciences ques et ; de Gene ; and as that periodical is not } sily accessible to English readers , a short account of his article is given here .
I. Evidence in of the Mofecnlar lexity of Liquids . .
Guye has shown ( ' Annals , ' vol. 31 , [ 6 ] , p. 206 ) that the quotiont obtained by dividing the critical tempel.ature of a liquid by the critical pressure measured in atmospheres is to the molecular retraction of the liquid multiplied by a factor which is approximstely to .
His eason for this stabement is follows :ations such as thab of van der , which express approximately the const , ants for gases and liquids in terms of temperature , pleasure , and volume , assume as one of data the " " covolume\ldquo ; ( b ) of substance ; i.e. , a number proporbional to the actual volume of the molecules , supposing them to be .
The dielectric constant of a body .
to Cla sius , on the ratio ?
of the real volume to the rent volume occtlpied by the molecules , in such a manner that .
AIaxwell has } that according to the elecbro magnetic theory ot light , the constallt should be its index of refraction for a ray of of The nactio is to refcrred .
volume of 1 am , and multiplied by ltlo where MR signifies molecular refraction .
172 Prof. W. Ramsay .
and the [ June 14 , Now van der Waals has shown that the relations between critical temperature , pressure , and volume are given by the equation The denominator on the right.hand side of the equation is nearly equal unity .
Assuming this to be the case , and introducing the value of where is the " " critical coefficient or the critical divided by the critical pressure .
No the value of ( is related to by ) equation and being proportional to the molecular refractio1l , the relation Mli i , Lould hold .
That is , , the quotient obtained on dividing the absoIute critical temperature by the critical pressure , shouId , when muItiplied by a constant , be equal to the molecular refraction .
While the majority of substances examined by Guye appear to consist of simple molecu ] al'g.roups at their critical points , water : methyl alcohol , and acetic acid yield numbers which point to association , inasmuch as the consbant , instead of having its usual value has decreased to about .
The densities of most liquids at itical points may be by multiplying their theoretical densities by a number approximately to ( Young and Thomas , ' Trans. Chem. Soc p. 1251 ; also 'Phil .
NIag 1892 , p. 507 ) .
But for a few snbstances the following values were found:\mdash ; Methyl alcohol . . . . . . . . . .
Ethyl alcohol. . . . . . . . . . .
Propyl alcohol . . . . . . . . . .
Acetic acid. . . . . . . . . . . . .
The factor should be greater , if association occurs , because the theoretical density calculated by Boyle 's and Gay-Lussac 's laws would then be greater than if it were supposed that the molecuIes of methyl alcohol , for example , were represented by the simple formula .
Here , , the evidence points to complex molecules at the critical tempe1ature .
Dissociofion of dIolecules of Liquids .
173 .
Cailletet and Matthias have suggested a simple plan for finding the true volume of a substance at its critical point .
It consists in pping the densities in the state of liquid and of gas against emperature seen , example , diagram given Ramsay and Young in their .
on in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' 1886 , Part I , plate 7 ) , and bisecting the lines of equal pressure , cross diagram izontally .
Such lines are lines of equal pressure at constant t , emperature .
On joining the points where the lines are bisected , a straight line is obtained in the case of most liquids , which , when continued vertically , cuts the at the crit density .
But to this rule Thomas find that water , and methyl , ethyl , and alcohols are exceptions , for they give curved lines .
These substances not associated in the state of in the liquid state display association .
Acetic acid , however , which displays association both in the state of liquid and of gas , gives a line which is , if not quite , at least vely nearly strai , ht .
It may therefore be concluded that while a curved line implies association in the state of , a stl.aight line implies either 110 association association in both .
The heat required to vaporise a dissociating liquid is employed in two ways when the gas , as is always the case , has a simpler molecular formula than the liquid .
A portion of the heat is employed in vaporisation alone ; while a portion is absorbed in effecting the decomposition of complex molecular groups .
The heat of vapol'isation alone diminishes as temperature rises , till at the critical point it is zero ; but the heat required to dissociate molecular groups may increase , if that term is of importance , and may cause the total heat to increase .
The rescarches of Ramsay and Young on ethyl alcohol and on acetic acid have that there exist maxima the of vaporisation of these substances .
Thus at , the heat cf vaporisation of ethyl alcohol is .
; at ; ; and at .
The numbers then decrease as usual .
With acetic acid at , the value is cal .
; at ; ; at ; at , and so .
It may be ated , then , that when the numbers representing heats of vaporisalion of a compo increase to a maximum , and then diminish , he compound contains complex in the liquid state .
It does not follow all substances which posscss complex liquid molecnles must cvhibit such a maximum , for this peculiarity evidently dopends on the tive importance of the heats of dissociation and of vaporisation .
The curves enting the vapour pressures of liquids do not cut one another at any point in their coursc .
Liquids which associate give -pressure curves which cut of those Prof. W. Ramsay .
Complexity and the [ June 14 , of non-dissociating liquids and frequently cut those of liquids .
The fact , then , that the vapour-pressure curvs of a liquid cuts those of undeniably simple substances , such as benzene , carbon tetrachloride , \amp ; c. , may be taken as a proof that that liquid contains complex molocuIes . .
This relation may also be expressed by the factor in van der Waals ' ation for calculating vapour-pressures , .
:\mdash ; is the critical pressure ; the critical temperature ; and some other sure at temperature T. The constant has a value close to 3 for all )-associating compounds .
Thus from Young 's results the values of are calculated:\mdash ; The mean value is But for liquids with complex molecular ; the values arc considerably higher , and , moreover , are not constant .
Other besides those mentioned by Guye , of whose memoir the an abstract , also point towards the lnolecular complexity of the alcohols and acids .
Among may be mentioned the ratios of the voltlmes of saturated vapour some chosen pressure to that at critical pressure , as shown in of Young 's memoir loc. ; the greater values of the expression for tho alcohols and for water compared with thosc of other substances ( see Ramsay and , ' Proc. .
Soc p. ; this really means the greater Lent of vaporisation for unib increase of for is equivalent to .
This 1894 .
Dissociation of the Nolecules of Liquids .
fact indeed is pointed ont in the first part of the series of papers ( ibid. , 291 ) .
Again the ratios of total to external work produced on show that the total work is a higher multiple of the external work or work employed in expansion ainst presstlre , in the case of the , acetic acid , and water , than in the case of other compounds .
nough has been said to show that a great mass of evidence exists in favour of molecular complexes in certain liquids .
It remains llow to consider the methods by which the of complexity can be II .
Methods ( Deducing the Molecnlar ) of ) rements of their iIolecular Surface-energy .
It was shown by Ramsay and Shields Phil. Trans that the elation of molecular of many liquids to temperature may be expressed by the equation ( 1 ) , where surface-tension , measured in dynes , the molcculal surface measured in square centimetres , is an approximate constant for most liquids varying little from , and is the attlre numbered vnwards from the critical point ; is ] constant ltlmber of degrees , usually , which must be subtracted from- .
For liquids which associate , as the ] fatty acids , the value of is not constant , but increascs with rise of temperature .
The problem is , knowiug the aYerage value of for liquids , to deduce the average molecular eights of associating liquids any given temperature .
Differentiating equation ( 1 ) we obtain for ting liquids ; , if we insert a term .
, to represent a factor with the gaseous or normal moleculal weight of a liquid f , hold be multiplied in ordel that the of .
should result from the equation , we ( 2 ) In our first atempts to deduce ] .
valne of , equation ( 2 ) expanded , thus:\mdash ; ( 8 ) ; Prof. W. Ramsay .
The the it was assumed , as a first approximation , that the second term , the variation of with temperature , was negligible .
In such a case ( 4 ) ; and it was on this assumption that the results given in the papers referred to for the alcohoIs , the acids , and water were calculated .
The numbers obtained were , however , as will be shown , much im excess of the truth .
An attempt was made to approximate to true value of , by calculating it by means of equation ( 4 ) approximately , and using the results obtained to equation ( 3 ) , by inserting the ected second term .
This was found to be impossible , and to lead to absurd ; hence it inferred that the tion of with temperatule was such as to make it imperative that attenion should ) paid to the second term of equation ( 3 ) .
At the same time it was noticed in mapping that its alteration with tature was pproximately linear ; and this reatly simplified the problem . .
J. Rose-InIles , who has taken in this work , and on several occasions valuable assistance , was kind enough to endeavour to find an oression w would satisfy condi tions .
A formula of the form admirably with the experimental values of molecular surfacefor methyl and ethyl alcohols , , and acetic acid between low tempelatures and some below their critical .
Even , it will be noticed , the for methyl and ethyl alcohols reasonably good .
The constants for these subsGances are:\mdash ; temperatul'e .
alcohol. . . . . .
Ethyl alcohol. . . . . . .
Water. . . . . . . . . . . . .
) Acetic acid . . . . . . . . .
A compal.ison between the calculated and values of is rbivcn in the following table : \mdash ; Prof. W. Ramsay .
Complexity and the It may be remarked that at temperatures within 20 or 30 of critical point the former no longer accurately expresses results .
This is not peculiar to associating compounds , as has been shown in the 'Phi ] .
Trans .
cit. , p. 657 .
Should it desired to secure more accurate correspondence between the found data near the critical temperatures and those calculated , the last term may be ified .
The equation then becomes For ethyl alcohol , the value of is , and , ou introducing this correctiou , the calculated values near the critical point , are as follow:\mdash ; Similar could be introduced for methyl alcohol , acetic , and water , would have the effect of the experimental numbers at low valoes of The following considerations show how it is possible to calcuIats the degree of association of such compounds at any desired temperature .
Neglecting for the present the " " \ldquo ; , which is introduced to secure concordance at bemperatures near the critical point , Jet us consider equation ( 1 ) , where has the value for unasso ciating liquids , .
Supposing that the liquid is composed partly of complex molecuIes , and that is a measure of the complexity , we should have , .
1894 .
] Dissociation of the ilIolecules of Liquids .
Comparing this with equation ( 5 ) , which reproduces the results associating liquids fair accuracy , , ib is evident that corresponds to expression It is , of course , easy to incIude the " " \ldquo ; term , when follows , as before .
There can , I think , be no doubt that this method gives a correct value to the factor of association , within certain limits .
These limits are conditio1led by the fact that the number cbosen for is not absolutely constant , but varies with the nature of the compound .
The extreme variation found for the fourteell substances which have been most carefully investigated is between for ethyl formate , and f'or methyl isobutyrate .
On the assumption that this is the extreme divergence , there may be an error of 5 per cent. in a negative or positive direction caused by assuming the mean value But there is another assumption involved in such calculations .
It is that a mixture of two liquids possesses such a molecular surfaceenergy that the mean molecular weight of the mixture , calculated from the proportion in which they present in the mixture , shall be deducible from the molecular surface-energy .
It is conceivable that the surface of such a mixture should not exhibit the same dis- of molecules as the interior , and evidence is required to show that the assumption that it does is correct .
This evidence is given in another communication , and it appears therefore that the assumption is justified .
With these premises , therefore , I proceed to give the molecular association of metbyl and ethyl alcohols , water , and acetic acid .
1894 .
] Dissociation of Molecules of Liqnids .
Addendum .
Since the foregoing pages were ofessor van der Waals has published a long memoir on the " " Thermodynamic heory of Capillarity on the Assumption of Continuous of Density\ldquo ; Zcitschrift physikalische Chemie , .
On main part of his work I have no criticism to offer ; but on p. 714 , he states some objectioI ) to the method previously employed by Ramsay and Shields calculating the factor of association These remarks are fully justified , as will have been seen from the preceding pages of } ) ; but in the formula which he suggests to replace it , he makes an assumption which , at first sight , is no less untenable than our assumption that the factor of associntion : , does not vary temperature .
In placing the factor of association as equal to unity at temperatures rlear the Cl'iticaltemptre , he obtains the formula and , inasmuch as this assumption is apparently very nearly true for Ynethy ] aIJd ethyl alcohols and for acetic acid , the numbers he gives are nearly identical with hose in the last table of this paper .
But they differ the case of water , and , according to him , is equal to , instead of to The formula given by him on p. 716 to calculate emaxkably good resuIts .
In fact , if be calculated for ether at is obtained identical with that found .
This resuIt was unforeby van der Waals , for the value for , was not given by us at that low emperature in our previous paper .
Professor van der Waals , , makes two cribicisms which appear to me to be hardly justified .
The first refers to a correction applied by us in order to allow for capillarity in the wider , yet still narrow , tube in which the stood .
He thinks that this correction would be affected by the curvature of the moniscus not being the same at high as low tempe ] atures .
The remark is certainly true ; but as the alteration in height due to ] tered curvature of meniscus would be well within the of error , it is negligible .
The second criticism deals .
with the capillarity near the criticaI point , and van der Waals states that the simple formula , applicable to narrow tubes , no longer holds when the capillary rise is only a few times greater than the radins of the tube .
This objection would bs justified were it not that the capillary heights are neal .
lie a lineal function of the temperature ; and with non-dissociating liquids , which he is here considering , Prof. W. Ramsay and Miss E. Aston .
it is quite unnecessary to take measurements at temperatures close to the critical temperature , becauso , if that temperature is known , there can be only one curve joining the points experiment .
ally found at somewhat lower temperatnres and the critical temperature .
The form of the curve such that no doubt can exist as to its course .
Indeed , with chlorobenzene , measurements were not carried out at all in the immediate neighbourhood of the critical point , but only at much lower temperatures , and yet there could be no question as to the course of the curve , when it was mapped .
these are minor points ; and it is to find that the material provided by Dr. Shields and ] affords such a remarkable confirmation of the justice of Professor van der Waals ' views.\mdash ; 18th } 1894 .
III .
" " The Molecular Surface-Lnergy of Mixtures of associating Liquids By Professor WILLIAM RAMSAY , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Miss EIIILY ASTON , B.Sc. Received April 26 , 1894 .
It has been shown in the previous paper that it is possible to calculate the d of association of an associating liquid such as , on the assumption that molecules of less complexity remain uniformIy distributed along with molecules of complexity throughout the , and hat no one kind of ] ecule tends to on the surface to the exclusion of the other .
It is necessal.y , howevcr , to tify this assumption ; and for this leason experiments have been made on of liquids the molecules of which do not unite to form complex grollps ; such are most of the liquids investigated by Bamsay and Shields ( ' Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 63 , p. 1099 , et seq The experiments of which an account is here given , show that while the hei .
to which a of two liquids ascends in a capillary tube is not the mean of the heights to which each would ascend at the same , while the surface-tensions and the surface-energies are not the mean of those possessed by the liquids ullmixed with other , regard being paid to their relative proportion the m , yet coefficient of decl.ease of ]noleculal .
, and conscqucntly the calculated molccular , are truc means of those of the two uids .
The substances used in these ) criments w chosen in pairs , as it was necessary in the { ubes to porate some of the contained liquid in ' to ensulc th of of liquids sess a ) tely cqual points , so

