Dr. Faraday then delivered the Bakerian Lecture , which in substance was a resume of the following papers:1 .
" Experimental Researches in Electricity .
" Twenty-fourth Series .
On the possible relation of Gravity to Electricity .
By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Under the full persuasion that all the forces of nature are mutually dependent , and often , if not always , convertible more or less into each other , the author endeavooured to connect gravity and magnetic or electric action together by experimental results , and though the conclusions were , when cleared from all error , of a negative nature , he still thinks that the principle followed and the experiments themselves deserve to be recorded .
Considering that some condition of the results produced by gravity ought to present itself , having a relation to the dual or antithetical character of the magnetic or electric forces , it seemed to the author that the approxi. .
mation of two gravitating bodies towards each other , and their separation , were the only points which offered this kind of coincidence ; and therefore , using the earth as one gravitating body , he employed a cylinder of metal , glass , resins , or other substances , as the other , and endeavoured to ascertain when the latter was allowed to fall , being surrounded by a helix of wire , whether any electric current was generated .
Sometimes the cylinder was allowed to fall through the helix ; at other times with the helix ; and occasionally the helix was made the falling body .
But when the various sources of error which sprung up were gradually removed , no traces of electric action remained which could be referred to the power of gravity .
In order to obtain a greater effect , al aparatus was employed ( being nearly that used in the 23rd Series of these Researches ) by which the effect of raising a body from the earth could be combined with that of a falling body by the fit use of commutators ( if any action at all were produced ) .
The apparatus was very good , and gave exceedingly delicate results , as was shown by other consequences of its action ; but in respect of gravity it produced no effect whatever .
Notwithstanding his failure in obtaining any experimental relation between gravity and magnetic or electric force , the author still expresses his conviction that there is a relation , and his hopes that it may be hereafter practically demonstrated .

