384 Prof. J. T. Cash and Mr. W. E. Dunstan .
is remembered that all applications of the aconitines , externally , are to be considered dangerous if any abrasion of the skin is present .
The chemical part of this inquiry has been conducted in the Laboratories of the Scientific Department of the Imperial Institute , with the assistance and co-operation of the Government of India .
Our thanks are specially due to Dr. George Watt , C.I.E. , Eeporter on Economic Products to the Government of India , for the interest he has shown in the investigation , and for the care he has taken in the collection of the necessary material .
The physiological experiments have been conducted in the Department of Materia Medica and Pharmacology of the University of Aberdeen , and have been assisted by a grant made by the Eoyal Society from the Government Fund .
The assistance of Drs. Esslemont and Fraser has been very valuable in carrying out some of the observations entailed in this department of the research .
" The Pharmacology of Pyraconitine and Methylbenzaconine considered in Eelation to their Chemical Constitution .
" By J. Theodore Cash , M.D. , F.E.S. , Eegius Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Aberdeen , and WyndHAM E. Dunstan , M.A. , F.E.S. , Director of the Scientific Department of the Imperial Institute .
Eeceived June 11 , \#151 ; Eead June 20 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous paper* we have shown that an entire change in the physiological action ensues on the withdrawal of the acetyl group from aconitine as is seen in the action of benzaconine , the first hydrolytic product of aconitine , from which it differs in containing an atom of hydrogen in the place of one acetyl group .
Ihis alkaloid is devoid of the characteristic physiological action and extraordinary toxicity of aconitine , whilst in respect of its action on the heart it is in the main antagonistic to that of the parent alkaloid .
In order to study further the remarkable dependence of the physiological action on the presence of the acetyl group , we have examined the action of two derivatives of aconitine which we have obtained in this research , viz. , pyraconitine and methylbenzaconine .
Pyraconitine was first prepared by one of usf by heating aconitine at its melting point , when the acetyl group is expelled as one molecule of acetic acid and the alkaloid pyraconitine remains .
This compound * ' Phil. Trans./ B , 189S , vol. 190 , p. 239 .
f Dunstan and Carr , 'Trans .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1894 , vol. 65 , p. 1/ 6 .
The Pharmacology of Pyraconitineancl 385 therefore differs in composition from aconitine by the loss of one molecule of acetic acid , and from benzaconine by one molecule of water .
Methylbenzaconine was obtained from aconitine by heating it with methyl alcohol in a closed tube.* A remarkable reaction takes place , in which the acetyl group is ejected as acetic acid , a methyl group taking its place .
This alkaloid therefore differs from aconitine in containing a methyl group in the place of the acetyl group , and from benzaconine in containing a methyl group in the place of one atom of hydrogen .
The examination of its physiological action would therefore be the means of studying the result of replacing in aconitine the negative radical acetyl by the positive methyl group , and also of studying the effect of the introduction of methyl in modifying the physiological action of benzaconine .
The acetyl group of aconitine evidently occupies an exceptional position in the molecule of aconitine .
So far as we are aware it is the only acetyl compound at present known , which exchanges this group for methyl when it is heated with methyl alcohol .
We have examined the behaviour of numbers of different types of acetyl derivatives from this point of view and can find none analogous to aconitine .
For the study of their physiological action these alkaloids have been specially purified and employed as hydrobromides in aqueous solution .
Contrasting the physiological action of pyraconitine with that of aconitine , as described in the present paper , we find , as might be anticipated from our previous results , that through the removal of the acetyl group the great toxicity of aconitine is nearly entirely abolished and the characteristic features of aconitine poisoning are no longer produced by pyraconitine .
Contrasting the physiological actions of benzaconine and pyr aconitine which differ from each other empirically by one molecule of water , pyraconitine , the anhydride , is the more active compound .
Both these alkaloids , divested of the acetyl group of aconitine , are relatively weak and feebly toxic when compared with the parent alkaloid .
Although benzaconine and pyraconine exhibit a strong similarity in the physiological effects they produce , there are differences between them which are probably more considerable than they would be if pyraconitine were merely the anhydride of benzaconine .
The substitution in aconitine of methyl for acetyl which occurs in the formation of methyl benzaconine has led to a very considerable reduction in toxicity and has introduced a curare-like effect similar to that first oVerved by Crum Brown and Fraserf to result from the # ' Proc. Chem. Soc. , ' 1896 , p. 159 .
f ' Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edinb .
, ' 1869 , vol. 25 , p. 192 .
Prof. J. T. Cash and Mr. W. R Dunstan .
introducton of methyl into the molecule of an alkaloid .
Methyl benz-aconine is however more toxic and generally more powerful than benzaconine , owing to the presence of the methyl group .
Action of Pyrac The main effects of pyraconitine may be thus summarised .
Its local application is devoid of the effects characteristic of the aconitines .
Its chief action upon the heart is to cause slowing , partly from vagus irritation , partly from depression in function of intrinsic rhythmical and motor mechanisms .
There is less tendency to want of sequence in the cardiac chamber walls than is observed after the aconitines and benzaconine .
The vagus apparatus remains active in degree after doses somewhat in excess of the lethal , the slowed heart of pyraconitine being accelerated both by vagotomy and by atropine .
Activity of respiration is reduced ( by central depression ) to a degree incompatible with life , as is the case after aconitine and benzaconine .
The peripheral motor nerves and muscular tissues are not at this time markedly affected .
Artificial respiration prolongs life , but the slowed heart and greatly reduced blood pressure tend to a fatal issue .
The spinal cord is impaired in its reflex function , apparently secondarily to reduced circulation in its structure .
A tendency to tonic spasm in frogs is late in appearing and of moderate degree .
It has not been seen after destruction of brain and medulla .
It is further associated with a curious condition of exaggerated motility .
Neither muscular nor intramuscular nervous tissue are strongly influenced by pyraconitine in lethal or somewhat hyperlethal doses .
The lethal dose per kilo , frog 's weight is practically about twelve times that which is lethal per kilo , rabbit 's weight .
Contrasted Effects of Pyraconitine and Benzaconine .
Of these two alkaloids , pyraconitine is approximately six to seven times more toxic towards mammals ( rabbits and guinea-pigs ) than benzaconine , and five to six times more so towards frogs .
They are alike in their action upon mammals , in so far as they are non-irritant , that they slow the respiration without preliminary acceleration , that they slow the heart and reduce the blood pressure to a very low level , that they cause paresis and in guinea-pigs clonic movements , and that respiratory failure is the immediate cause of death .
They differ in so far that pyraconitine acts more rapidly , but for a shorter period , whilst fatal termination of poisoning is preceded by convulsions , which are very rare after benzaconine .
Benzaconine alteis the sequence of the ventricles upon the auricles much more usually and The Pharmacology of Pyr aconitine and Methylbenzaconine .
387 to a greater extent than pyraconitine , though if asequence is developed it has the same general character ( the auricular second beat being blocked from the ventricle ) .
Whilst pyraconitine stimulates the cardiac vagus both centrally and within the heart ( section and atropine causing acceleration ) , and finally occasions only a limited reduction in its activity , benzaconine produces but little stimulation , and ultimately suspends the vagus inhibitory action .
Under these conditions atropine is , of course , inoperative .
Both accelerate the heart in small , but slow it in large , dose , and both may disorder the sequence , but vagus inhibition is much more interfered with by benzaconine .
Frogs poisoned by benzaconine lose the power of voluntary movement , then reflex disappears , and finally the circulation is arrested ; but after pyraconitine , reflex outlasts the heart 's action .
Late spasm occurs after the latter , not after the former .
Whilst in lethal doses pyraconitine has no effect beyond somewhat favouring fatigue and reducing excitability of motor nerves , benzaconine greatly impairs their function , and in thorough poisoning may suspend it entirely .
Action of Methylbenzaconine .
The action of methylbenzaconine may be summed up as follows : It is very feeble in its toxicity when contrasted with aconitine , but is somewhat stronger than benzaconine .
Small and medium doses , whilst slowing the heart , do not cause any failure in sequence , but larger doses have this effect .
They act upon the rhythm of the organ , involving the movement of the auricle and ventricle whilst ultimately the sequence of the latter upon the former is impaired , so that it follows only a certain proportion of the auricular " leads .
" This block is not removed by atropine .
Whilst the passage of the ventricle into the diastole is at first retarded , the contractile power of the myocardium is ultimately reduced by methylbenzaconine .
The cardiac vagus is depressed in action and its inhibitory function is ultimately suspended by large doses , neither section of the vagus nor atropine administration relieving the slow and faulty action of the organ .
There is evidence of slight primary stimulation of reflex cord centres when ligature of vessels prevents the masking of this condition by the peripheral action of the poison .
The subsequent impairment in cord reflexes is later in occurring and of much shorter duration than the action of methylbenzaconine upon intramuscular motor nerves .
In mammals the paralytic symptoms are predominant , the fall of temperature is in part attributable to this cause as well as to changes in the circulation .
The clonic movement and salivation ( observed in 388 The Pharmacology of Pyraconitineand a certain stage of the action of methylbenzaconine , especially upon guinea-pigs ) are suggestive of the action of a near ally of aconitine .
In frogs , however , there is no semblance to an aconitine effect , unless its very feeble action towards sensory nerves or its much more powerful action upon motor nerves , be thus viewed .
Motor nerves are greatly affected by doses which are distinctly below the lethal for cold-blooded animals , the action being curare-like in character .
Muscular tissue is after the action of large doses more susceptible of fatiguing influences .
Fibrillation in muscles to which the poison has access is more common than after aconitine or any other derivative examined .
These observations support in the main the contention of Crum Brown with Fraser that the introduction of methyl into the molecule of certain spasm-producing alkaloids , marks the effect of these by occasioning a curare-like action at the periphery .
Contrasted Effects of Methylbenzaconine and Aconitine .
The toxicity of aconitine is , roughly , eighty to one hundred times that of methylbenzaconine towards rabbits and guinea-pigs , and much the same proportion holds for summer and winter frogs respectively .
Whilst slight tendency to salivation and retching movements are produced by methylbenzaconine , and are in so far suggestive of a slight aconitine action , the absence of initial acceleration of respiration , of local irritation , and dyspnoeal convulsions , and the predominance of paralytic symptoms , are points of difference .
The action upon the heart is entirely distinct , for the pulse is slowed by methylbenzaconine , the auricles eventually beating more rapidly than the ventricles , the action of the poison proceeds uniformly and without the intermissions which characterises aconitine , whilst the early phenomena , of vagus stimulation have little in common .
The general symptoms of poisoning in frogs have scarcely a point of similarity , quiescence , rapid failure of reflex , and voluntary movement , without impairment of the cardiac action , are distinctive of methylbenzaconine , whilst excitement with great motility and persistence of voluntary movement follow aconitine .
Fibrillation is much more pronounced after the former , though it is only a transitory phenomenon .
The action on the heart differs widely in frogs as it does in mammals , whilst the curare-like action of the derivative on motor nerves is not produced by aconitine in doses which just suffice to arrest the heart .
It is true that large but sublethal doses of aconitine are followed by a condition of almost complete paralysis , which lasts for several days , but during this time there is slight voluntary and reflex movement , the nerve-endings are not put out of action , and the circulation is usually of the feeblest character , all conditions which are not found in the period of quiescence following methylbenzaconine .
Separation of the Least Volatile Gases of Atmospheric Air , 389 Contrasted JEffectsof Methylbenzaconine and Methylbenzaconine is from three to four times more toxic towards rabbits and guinea-pigs than benzaconine , and from twice to thrice as toxic towards frogs ( R. temp , and R. esc .
) .
In mammals , slight salivation , retching movements , and muscular tremor are characteristic effects of the former , but dyspnoea , ataxia , and paresis are also seen after benzaconine .
Of the two , methylbenzaconine is distinctly less depressant towards the heart .
Slowing of the pulse and want of sequence of ventricular upon auricular action occurs after both , but is a much earlier symptom after benzaconine , which causes more disorder in the motor mechanism .
On the other hand , the intracardiac vagus is put out of function more readily by methylbenzaconine .
Death after either poison is rarely preceded by spasm .
Neither of the two compounds cause any local irritation in frogs , but methylbenzaconine produces active fibrillation in the muscles , to which it gains access and develops a complete curare-like action much more prominently than does benzaconine , the heart continuing to beat strongly .
.Benzaconine , in dose sufficient to cause such an effect at the periphery , acts disastrously upon the circulation .
In partial poisoning by methylbenzaconine the characteristic rapid failure of the intramuscular motor nerves on stimulation is well marked , but the subsequent , recovery on resting , so characteristic of benzaconine , has not been observed .
" On the Separation of the Least Volatile Gases of Atmospheric .
Air , and their Spectra .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , Sc. D. , F.RS .
, Professor of Chemistry in the University of Cambridge , and James Dewar , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor in the University of Cambridge , Fullerian Professor of Chemistry , Royal Institution , London .
Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 20 , 1901 .
Our last communication to the Society* related to the most volatile of the atmospheric gases , that which we now beg leave to offer relates to the least volatile of those gases .
The former were obtained from their solution in liquid air by fractional distillation at low pressure , and separation of the condensible part of the distillate by cooling it in liquid hydrogen .
The latter were , in the first instance , obtained from the residue of liquid air , after the distillation of the first fraction , by allowing it to evaporate gradually at a temperature rising only very slowly .
The diagram , fig. 1 , will make the former process intelligible .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * vol. 67 , p. 467 .

