]\gt ; Sturm-Liouville of Normal Functions in the Theory of Integral By JAMES MEXCER , .
( Cantab .
) , D.Sc .
( Liverpool ) , Fellow of Trinity , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. A. R. Forsyth , Sc. D. , .D .
, F.R.S. , \mdash ; ( Received January 20 , \mdash ; Read March 3 , 1910 .
) ( Abstract .
) In a memoir read before the Society on last I proved a theorem* which may be stated as follows:\mdash ; liet , be complete stem of fn relating to a is of positive pe in cnul let be tl , e correspon nlar the series converges absoiutel.a has for , the solving function of .
I now show that this leads to the following theorem relative to the expansion of an arbitrary function as a series of such normal functions:\mdash ; liet the of the normal functions be such that the values orof magnitudc ; let , ) resprctiv !
and lo10 .
lim its of of which function integral in the rval Then ( 1 ) It will be clear that the application of this theorem in any particular case requires the determination of an asymptotic formula for when is negative and numerically great .
In the third section I proceed to obtain such a formula for the case in which is the Green 's function of the equation ' Phil. .
Roy .
Soc Series , vol. 209 , p. 44 574 Dr. J. Mercer .
Sturm-Liouville Series of [ Jan. 20 , for an assigned pair of boundary conditions at the end points of .
The only restriction placed upon the function of denoted by is that it should be continuous in .
By employing this formula I show that , if is any function which has a Lebcsguc integral in , ( 2 ) where are espectivdy the upper and lower bilateral limits of at a point of the open interval .
These bilateral limits are defined as follows .
Let be any two functions which possess limited second derivatives in an interval , and are such that The upper limit of , ( 3 ) as tends to zero , will , in general , assume different values as the functions , are varied .
The lower limit of these values is called the upper bilateral limit of at the point .
Similarly , the upper limit of the values assumed by the lower limit of ( 3 ) is defined to be lower bilateral limit of at In the case before us , the normal functions are the solutions of which , for , satisfy the same pair of boundary conditions as .
The series is called a canonical -Liouville series corresponding to .
It foJlows from ( 1 ) that we have at each point of .
This , in conjunction with ( 2 ) , enables us to state general theorems relative to the behaviour of canonical Sturm-Liouville series .
Thus , defining the common value of the upper and lower bilateral limits at a point where they are equal to be the bilateral limit at that point , we have : At each point of the open terval where , the bilateral limit of , exists .
1910 .
] in thoe Theory of Integral ations .
Again , the case in which , we see that:\mdash ; of acano to at any of the interval eohcrc it concerycs the ?
bil ptcrits of at point .
In the later portions of this these theorems are extended to the most general type of Sturm-Liouville series ( S In the section I consider the ence of canonical Sturm- Liouville series , a method which is by the proof of the theorem of II , S4 , the asymptotic formula obtained at the commencement of the third section .
It is eventually shown that : At any point of .
' oj canonic Sturmcorr]assignc is in 's the same of in In particular we have : If respo to ntcrral conrcr at th , cmd th It is also shown that : If one o.f ' to the l.function , , of its , then all of ] th sct .
From the two theorems just quoted sufTicient conditions obtained for the convergence for the uniform euce of series .
Finally , the cIre obtained for the Yeneral ille series .

