274 III .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."-No .
III .
Contributions towards the History of the Diamides ; Cyanate and Sulphocyanide of Phenyl .
By A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received May 7 , 1858 .
About ten years* ago , when engaged in the study of aniline , I discovered two beautiful crystalline compounds , carbanilide and sulphocarbanilide , which can be produced by a variety of processes .
The former is best prepared by the action of phosgene-gas on aniline , while the latter is most readily and most abundantly procured by the action of bisulphide of carbon on aniline .
The composition and the constitution of these bodies is indicated by the formulae(C2 , o , ) " Carbanilide ... ... ... C( H1 N , 20= ( C2 Ha ) N , , Ha J ( C , S , ) " Sulphocarbanilide. .
C26 H12N2 S2(C2 , H , ) N,2 H , J They may be viewed as derived from two molecules of ammonia ( diammonia ) in which two equivalents of hydrogen are replaced by two molecules of phenyl , and two other equivalents by the biatomic molecules C , 0 , and C , S2 .
The two substances in question , as far as their formulae are involved , obviously correspond to urea and sulphocyanide of ammonium:(C , 02 , ) " Urea ... ... ... .
C2 N,2 = H , 2N H , ( C2A2 ) Sulphocyanide of ammonium. .
C , H , N S , =H2 N , H2 J In their formation likewise a certain analogy with urea and silphocyanide of ammonium may be recognized ; for recent experiments have proved that urea is actually produced by the action of phosgenegas on ammonia , while the formation of sulphocyanide of ammonium by means of ammonia and bisulphide of carbon is a long established fact .
The analogy , however , seems to disappear altogether , if the 275 chemical nature of the four bodies be compared , for while urea exhibits the deportment of a base , and the saline character of sulphocyanide of ammonium is so well defined , carbanilide and sulphocarbanilide are apparently perfectly indifferent substances .
Nevertheless , on considering the difference of the chemical properties of urea and sulphocyanide of ammonium , and on recollecting that the saline constitution of urea is much more hidden than that of sulphocyanide of ammonium , it appeared worth while to try whether the action of powerful agents would not reveal a similar , if I may use the term , saline construction in carbanilide and sulphocarbanilide .
Experiment has realized this anticipation .
In the conception of the above view , I have endeavoured to split the two bodies in question according to the equationsC2 H12N2 02 C 12 H7 N+ C14 HN O , , Carbanilide , Phenylamine .
Cyanate of Diphenyl-carbamide .
phenyl .
and C26H12NAS2 =C C1 H7N + CHNS Sulphocarbanilide , Phenylamine Sulphocyanide Diphenyl-sulphocarbamide .
of phenyl .
suggested by analogous changes of urea and sulphocyanide of ammonium : C2 H N2 O-H N+ C2 HN 2 , , Urea .
Cvanic acid .
C2 H N2 S2= H3 N +C2 HN S2 Sulphocyanide Hydrosulphocyanic of ammonium .
acid .
These reactions succeed without much difficulty .
On submitting carbanilide and sulphocarbanilide to the action of agents capable of fixing aniline ( anhydrous phosphoric acid , chloride of zinc , and even hydrochloric acid gas ) , the former yields cyanate ofphenyl , a substance which I discovered many years ago among the products of decomposition of oxamelanile * , while the latter furnishes a remarkable body , sulphocyanide of phenyl , which had not been previously obtained .
The general features of cyanate of phenyl having been delineated 276 in a former memoir , I have for the present been chiefly engaged with the examination of sulphocyanide of phenyl .
This body , which is readily obtained in a state of absolute purity by rectification over anhydrous phosphoric acid , is a colourless transparent liquid of 1*135 density at 15 ?
'5 , and of a perfectly constant boiling-point at 222 ?
C. under a pressure of Om'762 .
The odour is aromatic and pungent ; it distantly resembles that of mustard ; the body in question is in fact the mustard oil of the phenyl-series .
Mustard oil , sulphocyanide of allyl. .
C8 , HL N S2=C6 H , , C2 N S2 .
Sulphocyanide of phenyl ... ... ... C , , HN S2C12 H5 , C2 N S2 .
Sulphocyanide of phenyl may be distilled with water , and even with hydrochloric acid , without undergoing any change .
The alkalies , on the other hand , decompose it .
Boiled with an alcoholic solution of potassa , it is first converted into sulphocarbanilide , and ultimately into carbanilide .
2C14 Hs N S , + 4KO + 2HO= 2KS+ KC+C 26 H12 N1 S2 .
Sulphocyanide Sulphocarbanilide .
of phenyl .
2CH4 H5 N S2+ 6KO+ 2HO==4KS+K2 C2 06+ C26 HN,2 02 Sulphocyanide Carbanilide .
of phenyl .
When gently warmed with phenylamine , sulphocyanide of phenyl is instantaneously converted into sulphocarbanilide , C14 H11N S+ C1 H,7N = C26 H1 N2 S , LI , -L-V_i -_ JU Sulphocyanide PhenylSulphocarbof phenyl .
amine .
anilide .
A similar reaction takes place with ammonia .
An alcoholic solution of ammonia , when gently warmed with sulphocyanide of phenyl , readily solidifies into a crystalline compound , which may be obtained in beautiful needles by crystallization from boiling water .
The new body is formed according to the equation C14 , N S2 + 113 N= C14 HI , N2 S2 Sulphocyanide Sulphophenylof phenyl .
carbamide .
This substance is the thiosinamine of the phenyl-series ; like the latter , it possesses the characters of a weak base .
I have not been 277 able to obtain saline compounds with hydrochloric and sulphuric acid .
It forms , however , compounds with nitrate of silver and bichloride of platinum .
The latter has the usual composition , viz. C14 H8 N2 S , , H C1 , Pt C12 .
Boiled with nitrate of silver , the new compound loses its sulphur , which is replaced by oxygen , phenylcarbamide , C14 H N2 2 , being produced , a substance which I described many years ago .
Sulphocyanide of phenyl is acted upon by a great number of ammonias with formation of bodies the composition of which is sufficiently pointed out by theory .
The mode of producing cyanate and sulphocyanide of phenyl , which I have described in the preceding paragraphs , deserves some notice , since the usual processes suggested by the experience in the methyl- , ethyland amyl-series , such as distillation of sulphophenylates with cyanates and sulphocyanides , have altogether failed in producing the desired result .
The same reaction may be of course applied to tolylamine , cumylamine , naphthylamine , and all primary monamines .
IV .
" Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."No .
IV .
Action of Bibromide of Ethylene upon Aniline .
By A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received May 13 , 1858 .
While engaged in some experiments on the action of bibromide of ethylene on ammonia , a short account of which I have lately communicated to the Royal Society , I induced Mr. Henry Bassett , then working in my laboratory , to study the deportment of the same bromide with aniline , a characteristic representative of the class of primary monamines .
In the following pages I propose to submit to the Society Mr. Bassett 's observations , together with the results of a series of experiments which I carried out myself after Mr. Bassett by circumstances had been prevented from a further continuation of the inquiry .
A mixture of 1 volume of the bibromide of ethylene and 2 volumes * Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. ix .
page 150 .

