229 Notes on the Application of Low Temperatures to some Chemical Problems : ( 1 ) Use of Charcoal in Vapour Density Determination ; ( 2 ) Rotatory Power of Organic Substances .
By Sir James Dewar , M.A. , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor in the University of Cambridge , and Humphrey Owen Jones , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of Clare College and Jacksonian Demonstrator in the University of Cambridge .
( Received February 6 , \#151 ; Read February 20 , 1908 .
) ( 1 ) Use of Charcoal in Vapour Density Determination .
In a recent paper* Barkla and Sadler describe the investigation of the penetrating power of the secondary Rontgen rays emitted by different elements , which they find to be dependent on the atomic weight of the element .
The behaviour of nickel was found by those investigators to be abnormal , and could only be reconciled with the behaviour of other elements by assigning to nickel an atomic weight of 61*4 , a value considerably higher than the accepted value , 58*7 .
We therefore considered it of interest to make some further determinations of the density of nickel carbonyl at low pressures ( when it would approximately obey the gas laws ) by the use of a new method of manipulation which enables greater volumes of vapour to be employed , while , at the same time , the accuracy of the weight of the nickel carbonyl used in each experiment was considerably improved .
Previous determinations made by usf gave the value 83*3 at 63 ' C. and 760 mm. ( when slight dissociation had taken place ) and 85*6 at 17 ' C. and 67*7 rnm .
, when no dissociation could be detected .
These results show no indication that the accepted atomic weight of nickel is too low .
The basis of the present method is the use of charcoal at low temperatures to absorb gases and vapours .
As liquid air is the material used for cooling , easily condensable vapours would , at the low temperature , have such a small tension that even the charcoal might be dispensed with , so far as one of the operations is concerned ; but as its presence was not a disadvantage , it was retained in all the condensers .
In the following experiments , the vapour or gas , of which the density had to be determined , occupied a definite known volume at 0 ' C. under a measured pressure , and was absorbed in a small bulb filled with charcoal cooled in * 'Phil .
Mag./ 1907 , vol. 14 , p. 408 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 1903 , vol. 71 , p. 427 .
230 Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
Application of [ Feb. 6 , liquid air which was afterwards weighed .
In the conduct of the several operations it was found most advantageous to use three charcoal reservoirs for the purposes of air exhaustion and condensation .
The apparatus is sketched diagrammatically in fig. 1 , and the following brief general description of it , and the mode of procedure , will make clear the essential details of the method .
A is a flask whose volume is about 2 litres , which is connected to a mercury manometer at B , and through a stopcock at C , to a weighed bulb F , with separate stopcock containing cocoanut charcoal .
A stopcock at I ) enables communication to be made to a suitable reservoir containing the substance whose vapour density was to be determined , or to any gas generating mixture like that used for the production of carbonic acid .
As all air has to be removed and a high vacuum reached in this part of the apparatus , it is convenient to seal on a special charcoal condenser , not shown in the drawing , instead of exhausting the whole apparatus by means of the one charcoal reservoir .
During the charcoal exhaustion , liquid substances , like nickel carbonyl , ether , or sulphurous acid , were frozen at the temperature of liquid air .
The usual preliminary washing out of the flask by the gas or vapour under examination made no detectable difference in the densities .
The volume of the flask A and the connecting tubes enclosed between the stopcocks C , D , and a mark at B on the manometer tube , was ascertained from the weight of water at 0 ' C. , which filled the space and was found to be 2161*6 c.c. The contraction of the flask , when the internal pressure was reduced to 40 mm. , was found to be approximately 1 c.c. Taking the weight of air displaced by the flask as 2*58 grammes , we get the value 2163*2 c.c. as the volume of the exhausted flask .
This gas or yapour receptacle , after charcoal exhaustion , was surrounded with melting ice , all except a small portion of the manometer tube at B , which had to be left uncovered in order to take readings of the level of the mercury .
The volume of the exposed part was , however , not more than 2 c.c. , so that the error introduced by this , being at a temperature above 0 ' C. , is negligible .
Beyond the tap C the apparatus is connected through a tube Gr to a bulb H containing cocoanut charcoal , and by a side tube to a Fleuss pump , also by another side tube with a stopcock J to a small bulb E containing charcoal .
The weighted bulb F , also containing charcoal , was connected to the rest of the apparatus by a piece of thick rubber tubing , so that it could be detached and weighed .
This rubber joint in refined experiments might be replaced by one of ground glass .
The mercury reservoir below the manometer B was movable , so that the 1908 .
] Low Temperatures to some Chemical Problems .
231 upper surface of the mercury could always be brought approximately to the level of the mark on B and carefully adjusted by means of a plunger in the reservoir .
The stopcocks were all carefully selected , and after proper lubrication were found to allow no appreciable leak into the exhausted apparatus on standing for many days .
Fig. 1 .
The arrangements for supplying the vapour were varied according to the substance used , and will be described in each case .
The stopcock D being closed , C , J , and K open , the whole apparatus was exhausted through the side tube at G by means of a Fleuss pump , while the three charcoal bulbs were heated by means of a Bunsen burner .
The side tube was then .
sealed off at G , and the bulb H inversed in liquid air for several hours , usually over night , after which the tube at I was fused and the charcoal condenser removed .
The vacuum left is less than a ten-millionth of an atmosphere .
During the main period of the charcoal exhaustion of the whole apparatus the stopcocks J and K were closed .
The flask being now shut off* by closing the stopcock C , the charcoal bulb F was detached , weighed with an equal volume counterpoise , and again connected to the 232 Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
Application of [ Feb. 6 " apparatus .
The small space in the connecting tubes between C and the taps J and K was now necessarily filled with air , which was removed by immersing the bulb E in liquid air for about 10 minutes , and then shutting stopcock J. Meanwhile the 2-litre flask A was surrounded with powdered ice , and the height of the mercury column in the manometer determined by means of a cathetometer .
It is evident that the accuracy of the results will depend on the determination of pressure , since the errors here will be greater than those in the determination of the volume of A or of the weight of the vapour .
The cathetometers used ( one of which was very kindly lent by the Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company ) were capable of reading to 0*02 mm. Four readings of each surface of the mercury were taken , the condition of lighting and background having previously been arranged so as to ensure the best result obtainable , and the mean of these to the nearest tenth of a millimetre taken , this being sufficiently accurate for the main object in view , namely , to see if the atomic weight of nickel was considerably higher than 58*7 .
The gas or vapour was now introduced through the tap D to any desired pressure , D was closed , and after adjusting the level of the upper surface of the mercury to the mark on B , the pressure was again determined .
Several determinations of the pressure were usually made , but it was found that equilibrium was very soon reached , and after about 10 minutes the pressure did not change .
When the charcoal bulb F is immersed in liquid air , the taps C and K being open , the vapour in A is rapidly condensed in F. The exhaustion of the vapour from the flask was allowed to go on for about one hour , though in most cases no measurable diminution of pressure could be detected after about 10 minutes cooling .
The taps C and K were then closed , F was detached and weighed against an exactly similar counterpoise after the expiration of a sufficient interval for it to acquire the atmospheric temperature .
The flask is now left exhausted and ready to be recharged with vapour or gas , and another determination made .
It was found advisable to exhaust and heat the charcoal in F after each experiment .
The weight of vapour filling A at 0 ' C. and under a measured pressure is thus determined , from which the vapour density can be calculated .
One difficulty with regard to the determination of the pressure must be noted .
The pressure of the vapour is found from the difference in the readings of the mercury manometer taken at different times .
During the interval between these readings the atmospheric pressure may change , and it was found in certain cases that owing to this cause the initial and final 1908 .
] Low Temperatures to some Chemical Problems .
233 readings of the manometer did not agree .
When this is observed the pressure of the vapour is best obtained from the difference between the reading of the manometer before and after introducing the vapour , since the interval between these readings is not long , usually about half an hour .
In order to test the method* some condensible gases , whose vapour densities are accurately known from the determinations of Rayleigh and Guye , were selected for experiment .
For this purpose carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide were chosen , and the results showed that the method worked satis* factorily , the variations being within the limits of accuracy aimed at .
The pressure was corrected for temperature by the simple formula pt = jpb ( 1 + 0-0001818* ) where t is the temperature of the column of mercury .
The manometer tube was 6 mm. wTide , so that the correction for capillarity may be neglected .
The correcting factor ( 0*99971 ) for reducing the weights from the value of gravity at Cambridge to that at Paris , may also be neglected as the difference is not within the limits of accuracy aimed at .
Carbon Dioxide.\#151 ; This gas was prepared by heating together an intimate mixture of fused boric acid and recently ignited sodium carbonate , and passing the gas through a tube containing some pure phosphorus pentoxide distilled in oxygen .
The apparatus for the preparation of this gas was sealed on to the inlet tube D beyond the stopcock and was thoroughly exhausted by means of a special charcoal reservoir and then finally connection was made to the previously exhausted flask A. The apparatus was allowed to stand for some time , and the special charcoal bulb sealed off .
The large flask A was then ready to be filled with carbon dioxide through the inlet tube D. The following results were obtained :\#151 ; Pressure corrected .
Weight of gas .
Weight of 1 litre of the gas .
Vapour density of gas , taking 1 c.c. of H 0 *00009 gramme .
mm. gramme .
gramme .
115 *4 0 *6476 1-972 21 -91 206 *5 1 *1624 1 -978 21 -98 206 *0 1 *1600 1 *978 21 *98 Rayleigh* gives the value 1*52909 as the weight of a litre of carbon dioxide compared to air at 0 ' and 760 mm. , which is 1*9782 gramme per litre .
Sulphur Dioxide.\#151 ; Some pure dry sulphur dioxide was liquefied in a glass bulb which , with a tube containing phosphorus pentoxide , was sealed on to D * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1897 , vol. 62 , p. 206 .
234 Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. 0 .
Jones .
Application of [ Feb. 6 , and the whole was then , while the sulphur dioxide was frozen in liquid air , exhausted by means of a pump followed by the use of charcoal in the manner described above .
The vapour could now be changed into the previously exhausted flask A to any desired pressure .
The following results were obtained:\#151 ; Pressure ( corrected ) .
Weight of gas .
Weight of 1 litre of gas .
Yapour density .
mm. gramme .
grammes .
76 T 0 *6200 2*863 31 -81 198 *5 1 *6243 2-875 31 -94 Guye* takes 2*9266 as the most probable value for the weight of a litre of sulphur dioxide at 0 ' C. and 760 mm. The theoretical value of the vapour density is 31*79 .
Ether.\#151 ; The experiments were carried out substantially as described for sulphur dioxide .
The results obtained were as follows:\#151 ; Pressure .
Weight of vapour .
Vapour density .
mm. gramme .
31 *4 0 *2968 36 *90 63 *9 0 -6024 36 -91 Theoretical value of the vapour density is 36*76 .
Nickel Carbonyl.\#151 ; In this case a small bulb was sealed on to D , which was connected , by means of a constricted tube and a stopcock , with another bulb containing pure dry nickel carbonyl .
The first bulb was exhausted with the whole apparatus , the tap at D was shut , nickel carbonyl was admitted into this small bulb , this was then cooled to \#151 ; 183 ' , the constricted tube sealed off , and the whole apparatus exhausted , wdiile the bulb containing nickel carbonyl was kept in liquid air .
The following results were obtained :\#151 ; Pressure .
Weight of vapour .
Yapour density .
mm. gramme .
16 6 0 *3600 84 -67 41 -7 0 -9046 84-69 46-8 1 *0164 84 -79 * 'Compt .
Rend .
, ' 1907 , vol. 144 , p. 1360 .
1908 .
] Low Temperatures to some Chemical Problems .
235 Taking the atomic weight of nickel as 58*3 ( H = 1).\#151 ; The theoretical vapour density is 84*73 , whereas on the assumption of the atomic weight suggested by Barkla and Sadler reduced to the same standard it would be 86*05 .
A slight deposit of nickel , due to dissociation of the nickel carbonyl under low pressure , formed on the tube just inside the tap I ) , where the vapour entered the apparatus .
This would , of course , tend to make the result obtained too low ' ; the amount of nickel deposited , even after several experiments , was so small , however , that its influence on the vapour density would be quite outside the limits of error .
No correction was made for the presence of vapour of mercury .
Taking into consideration the fact that the deviation of the vapour from the gas laws would tend to make the result too high , it is probable that the value found is not too low , and makes it impossible that the atomic weight of nickel should be as high as 61*4 relative to the oxygen standard , or 60*95 when hydrogen is taken as the fundamental unit of atomic weights .
The accuracy of the method could be greatly improved by the use of a larger vessel and more delicate manometric measurement , so that good results might be obtained at very much lower pressures .
Further , if the charcoal condenser F was made of metal instead of glass , any increase of pressure on heating the charcoal up to the ordinary temperature would be immaterial , and thus more volatile gases like oxygen and nitrogen could be equally well manipulated .
( 2 ) Rotatory Power of Organic Substances .
The optically rotatory power of organic substances does not appear to have been examined at temperatures below 0 ' C. An attempt to determine the change which takes place in the rotatory power of some substances down to much lower temperatures is here recorded .
With this object in view , solutions of various optically active substances in alcohol and in petroleum ether were cooled to a low temperature by means of liquid air , and it was found that solutions of a number of substances could be solidified without losing their transparency .
A jacketed polarimeter , 10 cm .
in length , was made entirely of metal , and surrounded with a thick covering of wool .
Experiments were made to find out how best to avoid the deposition of hoar frost on the glass plates at the ends of the tube .
This caused some trouble , and , after trying a number of devices , it was found that , when the glass plates used to close , the ends of the tube were about 1 cm .
thick , and their outer surfaces were continually moistened with absolute alcohol , readings could be taken at quite low temperatures .
236 Sir J. Dewar and Dr. H. O. Jones .
Application of [ Feb. 6 , Cooling was carried out by introducing liquid air , or other liquids of low boiling-point , into the cylindrical space between the actual tube and the outer jacket .
Cooling caused distortion of the field of the polarimeter as seen through the liquid , and accurate determinations of the rotatory power soon became impossible ; however , by cooling slowly , and allowing a considerable time for inequalities in density to disappear , it was found that fairly consistent readings of the polarimeter could be obtained , and the-uncertainty in the result was usually not greater than 0'*3 .
When the liquid in the tube solidified to a transparent glass , readings were no longer possible , as the field of the polarimeter became uniform in all positions of the analyser ; this effect is probably due to double refraction , caused by strain .
In the case of some solutions , such as that of menthol in alcohol , , this effect appeared at \#151 ; 80 ' C. , while the solution was still liquid .
The choice of solvents is practically limited to ethyl alcohol and petroleum ether of low boiling point , since these are among the few liquids which solidify below \#151 ; 100 ' C. to a transparent glass .
It soon became clear also that very few active substances were suitable for examination , as it was necessary to get a sufficiently large rotation to observe , , and solutions of most substances , when concentrated enough to give a rotation as large as desirable , could not be cooled and still retain their transparency .
Solutions of a number of substances have been examined , but two only need be mentioned here as it is hoped later to communicate the results of further experiments on the effect of temperature on rotatory power .
These two substances are / -nicotine and " bitter orange oil , " consisting chiefly of cZ-limonene .
These were chosen for several reasons : first , on account of their great rotatory power , [ a]D = \#151 ; 163 ' and +96 ' respectively ; secondly , they both formed mixtures with alcohol which could be solidified to transparent glasses , and , thirdly , on account of the difference in their behaviour within the limits of temperature hitherto examined .
The rotatory power of nicotine increases with increase of temperature , while that of limonene decreases with increase of temperature . .
The following observations are selected from those made and illustrate the kind of change observed .
Nicotine.\#151 ; Solution in alcohol , 21*2 grammes in 100 c.c. at 20 ' C. Density , .
0*871 .
Temperature .
+ 20 ' C. Observed rotation .
\#151 ; 30'*0 C. - 50 - 70 - 90 - 120 -28 -7 -27 *3 -25 *3 -22 *0 1908 .
] Low Temperatures to some Chemical Problems .
237 At lower temperatures readings were impossible .
Solutions of nicotine in petroleum ether on cooling soon deposit solid nicotine and are therefore useless .
It is clear from the above results that the rotatory power of nicotine diminishes with decreasing temperature below 0 ' C. just as it does above this temperature .
Moreover , the diminution appears to be quite regular ; since the curve showing the relation between the temperature and the observed rotation is approximately a straight line which , when produced , gives a rotation at the absolute zero of about 12 ' .
The specific rotatory power cannot be calculated , since the densities of the solution at the different temperatures have not been determined .
A rough estimate of the specific rotatory power can , however , be obtained by using the densities of alcohol calculated from a Waterston formula , V = 2-8911 \#151 ; 0-6938 log ( 243-6 \#151 ; 0- The density of alcohol at \#151 ; 90 ' C. would be , according to this formula , 0-877 .
The density of the nicotine solution at 20 ' C. was 0-871 , and may be assumed to be about 0'95 at \#151 ; 90 ' C. , hence the specific rotatory power at this temperature would be approximately \#151 ; 109 ' .
Taking the value of the observed rotation from the curve to be \#151 ; 23''5 at \#151 ; 115 ' C. , the density of alcohol to be 0'894 , and that of the solution to be 0'97 , we get the specific rotatory power at this temperature to be about \#151 ; 99 ' .
Hence , by extrapolation of the linear law , the specific rotatory power at \#151 ; 273 ' C. would be about \#151 ; 54 ' .
Bitter Orange Oil.\#151 ; Solution in alcohol , 20 grammes in 100 c.c. at 15 ' C. Density , 0'816 .
Temperature .
Observed rotation .
+ 8 ' C. + 18'-5 C. -35 20 -5 -65 22 -3 -85 24 -5 -95 25 -5 Further readings were impossible .
The curve expressing the relation between temperature and observed rotation was found to be practically a straight line , and the value of the observed rotation at the absolute zero would be about 37 ' .
The rotatory power , therefore , increases with diminishing temperature below 0 ' C. as it does above this temperature .
On calculating the densities of the solution in the same rough way as in the case of the nicotine solution , we get the density of the solution at \#151 ; 90 ' C. to be 089 , and hence the specific rotatory power would be about +114 ' .
By extrapolation , on the assumption of the linear 238 Application of Low Temperatures to Chemical Problems .
law , the value of the specific rotatory power at \#151 ; 273 ' C. is found to be about 156 ' .
Solution in petroleum ether ( B. P. 30'\#151 ; 35 ' C. ) , 20 grammes in 100 c.c. at Temperature .
Observed rotation .
+ 5 ' C. +19'-2 C. -15 20 -5 -35 22 .2 -60 23 -7 -75 + 24 -2 -95 26 -0 Further readings were impossible .
The results in this solvent are therefore just the same as those in alcohol , the rotatory power increases with diminution of temperature and would be about 40 ' at absolute zero , if the linear law be extended .
Similar results have been obtained with a number of other substances such as menthol , camphor , ethyl tartrate , and pinene , but on account of the smaller rotations that were observed they were not so regular nor so conclusive .
It would therefore appear from these preliminary observations that the rotatory power of optically active carbon compounds in solution changes in a regular manner with temperature down to \#151 ; 120 ' C. and that the molecules would , in all probability , still exhibit optical rotatory power at much lower temperatures .

