January 12 , 1837 .
CAPTAIN SMYTII , R.N. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
" An attempt to account for the discrepancy between the actual Velocity of Sound in Air or Vapour , and that resulting from theory .
" By the Rev. William Ritchie , LL. D. , F.R.S. Professor of Natural Philosophy at the Royal Institution , and in University College , London .
Sir Isaac Newton determined from theory that the velocity of the undulations ofan elastic medium generally is equal to that which a heavy body acquires in falling by the action of gravity through half the height of a homogeneous atmosphere of that medium ; but the actual velocity of sound in atmospheric air is found to be one eighth greater than what is assigned by that formula .
This difference was attempted to bc accounted for by Newton on the supposition that the molecules of air are solid spheres , and that sound is transmitted through them instanter .
Laplace endeavoured to reconcile the difference between theory and observation , by the hypothesis that heat is disengaged from each successive portion of air during the progress of the condensed wave .
The author of the present paper regards the hypothesis of Laplace as a gratuitous and improbabie assumption ; the falsehood of which he thinks is apparent from the fact that a rarefied wave advances through air with the same velocity as a condensed wave , which would not be the case if in either instance their progress were influenced by the heat evolved .
He then enters into calculations to show that if the molecules of water be assumed as incompressible , and , when at the temperature of maximum den ?
sity , very nearly in absolute contact , we ought , in estimating the velocity of sound in steam , to add to the velocity given by the for ?
mula of Newton , the rectilinear space occupied by the molecules ; which , if a cubic inch of water be converted into a cubic foot of steam , will be one twelfth of the distance .
By comparative experiments with a tuning-fork held over a tube , closed at one end , and containing at one time air , and at another steam , and also by similar trials with organ pipes of variable lengths , the author found a close agreement between his theory and observation .
He also shows that this theory furnishes the means of determining , a priori , the density of a liquid , if the velocity of sound in the vapour of that liquid be given .
In a postscript he adduces further confirmation of the truth of his theory by observations on the velocity of sound in hydrogen gas , and in carbonic acid gas .

