158 Prof. H. Marshall Ward .
mid-grandparent to grandchildren .
The coefficient of correlation was 0*272 \#177 ; 0*12 , and the coefficient of regression = 0*5 \#177 ; 0*2 , while , according to theory , they should he 0*3 and 0*6 respectively .
The evidence of these measurements cannot be said to be conclusive and I am about to test the theory on some other parthenogenetie animal .
If , however , this kind of inheritance be found to hold at all generally in parthenogenesis , it would be a fact of very considerable significance , and might conceivably give some insight into the physiological causes of heredity and variation .
" Onygena equina ( Willd .
) : a Horn-destroying Fungus .
" By H. Marshall Ward , D.Sc .
, F.RS .
, Professor of Botany in the University of Cambridge .
Beceived April 6 , \#151 ; Bead May 4 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The genus Onygena comprises half a dozen species of fungi , all very imperfectly known , remarkable for their growth on feathers , hair , horn , hoofs , \amp ; c. , on which their sporoearps appear as drum-stick shaped bodies 5\#151 ; 10 mm. high .
A cow 's horn , thoroughly infested with the mycelium of the present species , yielded material for the investigation , and the author has not only verified what little was known , but has been able to cultivate the fungus and trace its life-history , neither of which had been done before , and to supply some details of its action on the horn .
The principal new points concern the development of the sporo phores , which arise as domed or club-shaped masses of hyphae and stand up into the air covered with a glistening white powder .
Closer investigation shows this to consist of chlamydospores , formed at the free ends of the up-growing hyphae .
Their details of structure and development are fully described , and their spore nature proved by culture in hanging drops .
The germination , growth into mycelia , and peculiar .biology of these hitherto unknown spores were followed in detail , and in some cases new crops of chlamydospores obtained direct in the cultures .
When the crop of chlamydospores on the outside of the young sporophore is exhausted , the hyphae which bore the spores fuse to form the peridium clothing the head of the sporocarp , and peculiar changes begin in the internal hyphae below .
Minute tufts or knots of claw-like filaments spring from the hyphae forming the main mass of the fungus , push their way in between the latter , and so find room in the mesh-like cavities .
Here the closely segmented claws form asci\#151 ; they are the ascogenous hyphae\#151 ; and the Onygena equina : a Horn-destroying Fungus .
details of development of the asci , their nucleated contents , and the spores are determined .
As the spores ripen , the asci , which are extremely evanescent , disappear , and in the ripe sporocarp only spores can be seen lying loose in the meshes of the gleba .
The ascomycetous character of the fungus is thus put beyond question , though the peculiar behaviour of the developing ascogenous tufts at one time rendered it questionable whether the older views as to the relationships were not more probable .
No one had hitherto been able to trace the germination of these ascospores\#151 ; the only spores known previously\#151 ; and De Bary expressly stated his failure to do it .
The author finds that they require digesting in gastric juice , and so in nature they have to pass through the stomach of the animal .
By using artificial gastric juice , and employing glue and other products of hydrolysis of horn , the details of germination and growth into mycelia , capable of infecting horn , were traced step by step under the microscope and fully described .
No trace of any morphological structure comparable to sexual organs could be discovered , though many points suggest the alliance of this fungus with Erysiphese and Truffles .
The author also found that similar digestion promotes the germination of the chlamydospores , and in both cases has not only traced the germination step by step , but has made measurements of the growth of the mycelium , induced the formation of chlamydospores on the mycelium again , and by transferring vigorous young mycelia to thin shavings of horn has observed the infection of the latter .
It thus becomes evident that the spores of Onygena pass through the body of an animal in nature , and , as might be expected from this , extract of the animal 's dung affords a suitable food medium to re-start the growth on horn .
Probably the cattle lick the Onygena spores from their own or each other 's hides , hoofs , horns , \amp ; c. , and this may explain why the fungus is so rarely observed on the living animal : it is recorded from such in at least one case however .
Very little is known as to the constitution of horn , and some experiments have been made to try to answer the question\#151 ; what changes the fungus brings about .
The research has also obvious bearings on the question of the decomposition of hair , horn , feathers , hoofs , \amp ; c. , used as manure in agriculture .
Although a bacterial decomposition of hoof substance is known to the author , special investigation of the question showed that in the present case no symbiosis between bacteria and the Onygena exists .
For the details as to the literature , the discussion as to the systematic position of Onygena , the experimental cultures , growth measurements , and the histology , the reader is referred to the full paper , which is illustrated by plates and numerous drawings .

