]\gt ; 1@75 On Dulong and Petit 's Law of Cooling .
465 VI .
Note on and Petit 's Law of Cooling By DONALD nunicated by Prof. Sir W. THOMSON , F.R.S. Rcceived June 10 , 1875 .
The 'Journal de Physique ' for Decelnber contains a friendly notice by Professor A. Cornu of xperiments made to determine sur-conductivity for heat ( or , as may call it , " " emissivity in absolute measure , ccount of which was communicaled to the Royal 8ociety , and read Procecdings , .
On the results there given M. Cornu :\mdash ; " " Ces nombres verifient la lsion de ] et Petit , a que les vitesses de refroidissement no dependent de l'etat des que par un constant de " " L'acceleration tive d rapport des pouvoirs emissifs firm p sensiblement cette conclusion ; elle est si faible qu'elle peut attribuee un petite reur r dams tion des renccs de temperatule ; en effet , 1'auteur no tenir count d'une d'erreur qui prcoccupe et Pctit , savoir la al transmission de la lcs deux cas .
Il cst } qe , dttIlS le refroidissement le plus tpide , la ture est nloins uniformement que le cas emeut lent ; therlectrique indique donc moius ) moyenne do mass que les boules de mercure des \ldquo ; On this it is to be rked tlity in the of cooling of diiferent surfaces is itself mot ) ilJld experiments in faot disprove it , so far it is thnt the errors of observation could be so great or so cousislently regular iu the same dircction as the truth of the supposed law ] equire .
As to the liation of ture froul centre to by the rapid cooling of ] bal ] , this ce ] inly not oked i planning the experiments .
Sir Thomsoll considered carefully , and selected copper , 011 accouut its ctivity , esliting that in copper of the sions u metres ) the tempclature must be ) ull .
A simple calculation ade in of ] } aended bel ) of homogeneous solid globe , in of a ) ' of 2 centimetres dius , the ) by onIy about the excess of its ) ) of the ling medium .
There would be 11 grcatcr of between centre in a globc of of same because mercury is a much worse of heal than c because a much greater of ) is in the copper would be requir to of heat by currents in the hc con Mr. D. Macfarlane on [ June 10 , taimng the mercury in a thermometer-bulb of ordinary dimensions proa sensible difference of temperature between the outer surface of the glass exposed to the external medium and the surface of the mercury .
For let be the thickness of the glass , the " " emissivity\ldquo ; of its outer surface , and the conductivity of its substance ; let the excess of temperature of the outer surface of the glass above that of the surrounding medium be , and the excess of temperature of the inner surface of the glass above the outer ; we have Now by the Glasgow experiments it hns been found that is approximately of a gramme-water thermal unit per square centimetre per seoond ; and by the determinations of conductivities of stones and underground strata in absolute measure by Peclet and Forbes the value of for glass may be roughly estimated at , in terms of centimetre , second , and gramme-water thermal unit .
Hence Thus , if the thickness of the glass be half a millimetre , we have This is a small difference , but by no means imperceptible in the delicate experiments of Dulong and Petit ; and it is twenty times the difference of temperature between the centre and surface of the cooling copper globe of 4 centimetres diameter .
APPENDIX .
Distribution of temperature in a cooling copper globe of 4 centimetres diameter , calculated from Fourier 's formula .
( 1 ) where , roots of the transcendental equation , ( 2 ) and coefficients determined to give ( according to Fourier 's method ) 1875 .
] Dulong and Petit 's Law of Cvoling .
467 any arbitrary function of from to , for the value of when : temperature at tims and distance from centre of globe , the radius of the globe , the thermal conductivity of its substance , the thsrmal capacity per unit volume of its substance , the thermal emissivity of its surface .
Taking centimetre , second , and gramme-water thermal units for the fundamental units , we have , as above , ( rough approximation ) ; and ngstrom 's experiments gave for copper approximately .
Therefore ; and for the globe of 4 centimetres diameter used in the Glasgow experiments , In all cases in which 1s small , the smallest root of the equation ( 2 ) is approximately to Calling this , we have and tely , Now any chosen term of ( l ) is a particular solution of he problem ; that is to say , it is the solution for the case fo which the distribution of temperature is that which it expresses when .
lfence Mr. J. Pcrry on the [ June 10 , expresses the temperature at time , if when the temperature is expressed by Taking , for instance , the copper globe of 4 centimetres diameter , we have ; ( 3 ) and we see that in the Glasgow experiments the difference of temperatures between surface and centre was just of the excess of above the temperature of the surrounding medium , when time enough had elapsed to allow the first term of Fourier 's series to be the predominating one .
Before that time the difference of temperatures must haYe been less than of either , if initially the temperature was uniform from to centre .
The ourier analysis of the transition from the supposed initial uniform distribution to the state represented by ( 3 ) is exceedingly interesting , but unnecessary for the settlement of the present question .
VII .
' Preliminary Results of an Investigation on the Electric Conductivity of Glass at different Temperatures By JOHN PERRY , B.E. , Thomson Experimental Scholar in The Natural Philosophy Laboratory at Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , F.R.S. LL. D. Received Apri18 , 1875 .
A quadrant electrometer now in use in the labor{tory seems to retain its whole charge from day to day ; a week 's loss is just perceptible , be supplied by a few turns of the replenisher .
In a eIectrometer now in use the oharge is most wholly from week .
These qualities are due to great insulationresistance of the glass employed .
At valiooe times experiments have been made in the boratory at Glasgow to determine the ]-resistance of different kinds of glass .
Of the specimens hitherto examined , those of have insulated best ; and it is hoped that experiments on flint glass being proceeded with will define the most suitable for use in electrometers and other electrical instruments .
method of investigation is the same that hich ndopted by Sir William Thomsou some years ago .
BDA is a *Now Professor of Engineering in the Imperial College of ] , Jeddo , Japan .

