An Account of some Books Extracted out of the Journal des Scavans .
I. Museo Cospiano annesso a quello del famoso Ulisse Aldrovandi et donato alla sua Patria dall ' Illustrissimo Signore Ferdinando Cospi Patricio di Bologna &amp; Senatore , &amp;c. Descrizzione di Lorenzo Legati Cremonese In fol. In Bologna .
1678 .
MR. Ferdinand Cospi Ma quis of Petreoli , equally illustrious for his Merit , the Employments where with he is honoured in the Court of Tuscany , and for his extraordinary Learning , which hath raised him to one of the highest degrees in the Academy of the Gelati in Bononia ( no less famous than that of the Humorists at Rome ) having with extraordinary care and expense , made a Collection of whatever he saw there that was curious and rare , and bestowed it upon his Country , the Senate of Bononia hath added the same to that of Aldrovandus .
An ample and learned Description whereos is here made by Mr. Lorenzo Legati Philosopher , Physician , and Greek Professor in the University of Bononia He divides the Work into Five Books .
The first contains a Description of whatever this Musaeum hath of rarity concerning Mummies , Beasts , Serpents , Birds and Humane Monsters , in respect as well of the inward as the outward parts : as the Child born at Bononia , in Apr. 1660 .
with two heads and two pair of Lungs , yet died within an hour after it was born .
The second Book conteins the Descriptions and other Remarks of several rarities concerning Aquatiles , as of the Flying Fish , &amp; c , As also of Corals , Pearl , &amp;c. The subject of the third Book , are Works of Art .
There being in this Musaeum several Volumes of different Paper , and writing .
Divers Mathematick and Physical Instruments .
Together with the several kinds of Weapons and other Instruments of War .
Upon occasion of which latter , the Author discourses at large of the Original of War , and of every Engine and Weapon in particular made use of in an Army .
There are here also divers Sepulchral Lamps of the Ancients .
The Fire whereof the Author of the abovesaid Journal well observes , that it was no otherwise perpetual , than that of the Vestals , which they took care to feed every day with fresh supplies of nourishment .
Which is also confirmed by one Article of Maevia 's Will reported in L. Maevia 44.ff .
de Manumiss .
Testament in these words sc .
I do affranchise Saccus my Slave , and Eutychia and Irene my Servants , on condition that every one of them in their turn , from month to month , shall replenish the Lamp with Oil that burns in my Sepulchre .
The Fourth and Fifth Books are concerning the Medals and Gods of the Ancients : Of which a further account is promised hereafter .
II .
Systema Bibliothecae Collegii Parisiensis Soc. Jesu .
In 4A Paris cher Sebastien Mabre-Cramoisis 1678 .
OF which Library the Author of the said Journal saith , that it conteins above two and thirty thousand Volumes .
III .
Glossarium ad Scriptores mediae &amp; infimae Latinitatis , in quo Latina Vocabula novatae significationis explicantur ; complures aevi medii Ritus &amp; Mores , Legum , Consuetudinum Municipalium , &amp; Jurisprudentiae recentioris formulae &amp; obsoletae voces , utriusque Ordinis Ecclesiastici &amp; Laici Dignitates &amp; Officia , &amp;c. enucleantur &amp; illustrantur , innumer a denique Scriptorum loca Graecorum , Gal .
Lat. Jtal .
Hispan .
German .
Anglo-Sax .
expenduntur , emendantur , elucidantur .
In sol .
3 .
Vol. Autore Garolo du Fresue Domino du Caugi Regi a Cons .
&amp; Franciae apud Ambianos Questore .
A Paris chez Louis Billaine rue S. Jacques devant les Mathunnis .
1678 .
THis Glossary of M. du Caugi , which is now completed , for the merit of the Author , the subject treated of , and for the Brass Cuts therein , is a Work so considerable , that the Learned will not be offended with this Advertisement .
For which a very great number of Authentic Writers , as well in M. SS .
as in Print , were consulted .
The work conteins above two thousand Observables ; together with several Learned Dissertations upon divers curious and profitable Subjects .
IV .
Explication Novelle &amp; Machanique des Actions Animales , ou il est traite desfonctions de l ' Am , &amp;c. Par. M , Duncan D. en Med. In 12 .
a Paris chez le meme .
1678 BEcause the Knowledge concerning the Functions of the Soul , and Animal Motions , depends much upon that of the Construction of the Brain : This Author therefore teaches the Dissection hereof , after such a manner , as seems more natural than that of Sylvius , Bartholine , or Willis , although they have all done excellently well .
In this Dissection , having laid bare the cision therein big enough ro receive the end of a Syringe ; he then makes several Injections into it , either of Mercury , or of melted Wax mixed with Oil of Turpentine , till the Jugular Veins are coloured therewith : and so presently makes a Ligature upon those Veins : whereupon you shall have the pleasure to see the branching and distribution of the Carotick and Vertebral Arteries , and of the Jugular Veins ; together with the Communication that is between them all .
That you may distinguish , in the twinkling of an Eye , the Arteries from the Veins ; he begins his Injection through the Jugular Veins , having before emptied them of the blood , after he hath made a Ligature on the Carotick Arteries .
Note , that this is the whole account given by the Author of the aforesaid Journal .
LONDON , Printed for John Martyn , Printer to the Royal Society .
1678 .

