304 XI .
" On the Properties of Electro-deposited Antimony " ( continued ) .
By GEORGE GORE , Esq. Communicated by Dr. TYNDALL .
Received June 1 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the following additional information is given respecting this singular substance .
The change observed iniit is shown not to be an exercise of the force of cohesion , because the amount of heat evolved by the powdered metal is not sensibly different from that set free by the substance in its coherent massive state .
The thermic discharge is not limited to a particular temperature , but commences between 170 ?
and 190 ?
Fahr. , and increases in rapidity to some point above 212 ?
Fahr. , when it becomes sudden .
The heat may be discharged either suddenly or gradually , according to the amount to be discharged in relation to the amount of cooling influences present .
The specific heat of the unchanged metal was found to be= 0'06312 ; and of the same specimens , after being gradually discharged , the specific heat was not sensibly different .
But the specific heat of the substance , after sudden discharge , was found to be= 00543 .
The total amount of heat evolved by the substance during its change was sufficient to raise the temperature of its own weight ot ordinary antimony ( sp. heat=-00508 ) about 650 ?
Fahr. The evolution of vapour which generally occurs during the change is a result of the molecular heat acting upon the terchloride of antimony contained in the substance .
It occurs when a sufficient temperature is produced either by internal or external causes , and does not occur when the molecular discharge is gradual and the temperature is not sufficiently raised ; in such cases the weight of the substance remains unaltered .
The substance , as usually produced from ordinary muriate of antimony , or from a mixture of that substance and tartar-emetic , contains small quantities of nearly all the ingredients and impurities of the depositing liquid .
The pure substance deposited upon sheets of platinum , in a solution of pure hydrochloric acid three-fourths saturated with pure 305 oxide of antimony , with an anode of pure antimony , exhibited no material difference in properties from the less pure variety .
Two analyses of the pure unchanged substance gave the following per-centages : No. 1 .
No. 2 .
Sb ... ... 93'36 Sb ... . .
93-51 SbC13 ... 5 98 } SbC1. .
603 IC1 ... ... 046 II6 H ... ... 021 99-80 99-75 A trace of water contained in them was not estimated .
Solvents removed the chloride of antimony from the powdered substance much more readily after the thermic discharge than before it .
Differences of physical appearance were detected in the changed and unchanged substance in the state of powder under a microscope ; the surfaces of the latter were smooth and brilliant , whilst those of the former were granular and less bright .
No mechanical mixture could be detected in the changed powder .
From the various experiments detailed in the paper , it appears that the substance in question is a feeble chemical compound of antimony and acid hydrochlorate of terchloride of antimony , apparently in variable proportions , decomposable by heat , and that the change observed in it , in cases of gradual discharge , consists of a molecular alteration , attended by weakened chemical affinity , and by evolution of heat ; but in cases of sudden discharge the evolved heat produces a partial chemical decomposition , which is of greater or less extent , according to the temperature acquired .
A portion of the powdered unchanged substance , digested sixty. .
three days with an aqueous solution of caustic potash , lost 2-95 per cent. in weight , but still retained about this of its heating power .
A second portion , digested fifty-six days with strong hydrochloric acid , lost 6-66 per cent. and all its heating power .
Exposure to light did not destroy the heating power of the powdered substance .
By depositing the grey variety of antimony into mercury , a pasty compound of the two metals was formed .
The amorphous variety did not combine with mercury under similar circumstances .
An acid solution of fluoride of antimony yielded by electro-deposition grey crystalline antimony not possessing the heating power .

