Experiment in Search of Action of one Crystal on another .
121 the eyeballs correctly in any desired position the exercise of peripheral apparatus of muscular sense is required , the only possible channels under the above conditions would seem to be deep branches of the Yth nerve or the Illrd , IVth , and YIth so-called " motor " nerves themselves .
As previously stated , the former are by both my earlier and later degeneration experiments excluded .
The latter , therefore , are the onty ones remaining , for the superficial branches of the Yth and the retinae are put out of action by the conditions of experiment .
I am indebted to Mr. E. E. Laslett for carrying out the observations with me .
Details regarding the methods employed and the results obtained will be given in a completer paper written in conjunction with him .
" An Experiment in Search of a Directive Action of one Quartz Crystal on another .
" By J. H. Pointing , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , and P. L Gray , B.Sc. Deceived September 27 , \#151 ; Bead November 17 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) A quartz sphere , 0*9 cm .
diameter , weight 1-004 grams , was suspended by a long quartz fibre so that its time of vibration was about 120 seconds .
A second quartz sphere , 6*6 cm .
diameter , weighing 399-9 grams , with its centre on a level with that of the first and 5*9 cm .
from it , was rotated continuously in a period of 115 seconds in one series , and in a period of 230 seconds in another series of observations .
The a ds of the smaller sphere was horizontal and perpendicular to the line through the centres .
Any directive action should manifest itself as a periodic couple , producing forced oscillations in the smaller sphere .
If the ends of the axis of a quartz crystal are indistinguishable the coiiple should go through its values in half a revolution of the larger sphere .
This is termed the " quadrantal " couple , and to test for it the time of revolution was 230 seconds , or nearly double that of the suspended sphere .
If the ends of the axis are poles , like those of a magnet , the couple should go through its values only , in a complete revolution .
This is termed the " semi-circular " couple , and to test for it the time of revolution was 115 seconds , or nearly equal to that of the suspended sphere .
The position of this latter sphere was read by means of mirror and scale every 1Y5 seconds , at ten equidistant phases of the 115-seconds period .
By taking a large number of periods , the mean reading for each phase should be freed to a great extent from other periodic motions and accidental disturbances , and a 115-second vibration should , if it existed , be rendered evident .
L 2 122 On the Formation , \amp ; c. , of Carbohydrates in Monocotyledons .
The quadrantal and semi-circular series of observations both gave evidence of periodic vibrations of 115 seconds , but so sijiall that they could only be put down as giving superior limits , and nob at all as proving the existence of the couples .
Assuming that the gravitation constant in the quadrantal case is G for parallel and G ' for crossed axes , the existence of a couple enables us to find ( G - G')/ G , and the observations show that this fraction is not greater than 1/ 16500 .
Assuming that the gravitation constant in the semi-circular case is G for like parallel axes , and G ' for unlike parallel axes , ( G - G')/ G is not greater than 1/ 2850 .
The semi-circular vibration outstanding after the elimination of disturbances was much greater than the quadrantal , no doubt owing to the fact that want of axial symmetry would itself lead to a semi-circular couple ; and though an attempt was made to eliminate the effect , it was probably unsuccessful .
" Contributions to our Knowledge of the Formation , Storage , and Depletion of Carbohydrates in Monocotyledons .
" By John Parkin , M.A. , Trin .
Coll. , Camb .
Communicated by Professor Marshall Ward .
Eeceived July 16 , \#151 ; Read November 17 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is divided into two parts , the first dealing with the formation of starch by assimilation in the leaves , the second with the occurrence of starch and inulins in the reserve-organs of various Monocotyledons .
The author has investigated about seventy species , belonging to all the principal groups of Monocotyledons , some of them at various different stages of growth , and finds that starch due to normal assimilation in the leaves occurs in very different amounts in different genera .
Relatively few produce much , and some form none at all , but species from most of the principal families form some starch in their meso-phyll .
On comparing the type of leaf , its position and age , the habit of the plant , and the period of normal activity , the author is led to suggest that some connection exists with the storage or non-storage of temporary starch .
Broad and cauline leaves , those of aquatic Monocotyledons , and those working at higher temperatures in the summer , seem more prone to have starch than narrow radical leaves , those of forms in dry situations , and those of spring species .
That the age of the leaf affects the question is shown by the results with Allium , a genus long known not to form starch under ordinary conditions : the

