292 Drs. W. De La Rue and H. W. Muller .
[ June 14 panied by a steady and marked decrease in the duration of thi latency .
( b ) When once maximal contractions are arrived at , con siderable increase in strength of stimulation does not alter the lengt !
of the latency .
( c ) After a certain point has been reached , furthe increase in strength of stimulus ( hyper-maximal ) causes elongation o !
the latent period associated with signs of injury to the tissue .
5 .
1 atigue must attain a considerable degree before it materially affects the length of the latency .
When it once begins to produce an effect it rapidly lengthens the latent period of muscles removed from the animal or in which circulation has ceased .
6 .
Changes in temperature , even minimal in amount , cause a marked alteration in the latency .
Lowering of temperature is accompanied by a steady elongation , and elevation by a rapid shortening of the latent period .
When the heat becomes intense ( for frog over circa 36 ' C. ) the length of the latency seems again to increase , as the muscle passes into heat rigor .
| 7 .
In observing the above variations in the duration of the latency , !
we have failed to find the wide extremes given by some authors as the limits of this phase of the contraction of striated muscle Y. " Experimental Researches on the Electric Discharge with the Chloride of Silver Battery .
Part IV .
" By Warren De La Rue , M.A. , D.C.L. , F.R.S.^ and Hugo W. Muller , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received June 11 , 1883 .
The authors recall that at the conclusion of the third part of their researches , * they stated that they intended to make an investigation on the dark discharge , and the special conditions of the negative discharge ; this paper contains a number of experiments , more especially on the latter subject , and also others intended to throw light on the general nature of the electric discharge through gases .
The first part of the paper describes some experiments made with vessels of different forms in order to ascertain whether the dimensions ( Abstract .
) r i\lt ; r. 1 * " Phil. Trans. " vol. 171 , p. 60 .
1883 .
] Electric Discharge with Chloride of Silver Battery .
293 and shape of the vessel have any effect on the pressure of minimum resistance to the electric discharge .
This was found to be the case , for example , with a residual air charge in a spheroidal vessel 7 inches ( 17-8 centims. ) long , and 5 inches ( 127 centims. ) diameter ( fig. l ) , the pressure of minimum resistance was as high as 3 millims. , 3947 M ; while in a tube 22'5 inches ( 57 centims. ) long , and T625 inches ( 4'1 centims. ) diameter ( fig. 2 ) , it was only 069 millim. , 908 M ; again in a Drs. W. De La Rue and H. W. Muller . .
[ June 14 smaller tube 23 inches ( 58*4 centims. ) long , and 0 75 inch ( 1*9 centime ) diameter ( fig. 3 ) , it was 1 millim. , 1316 M. It is evident , therefore , that not only the dimensions of the tube , but possibly also the shape of the terminals , have an influence on the pressure of least resistance and it is very probable that in the atmosphere , where lateral expansion is practically unlimited , the conditions of minimum resistance are different from those which exist even in very large.tubes , and that this may influence the height of the aurora .
The paper next deals with the discharge in miniature tubes S inch ( 2'2 centims. ) long , and J inch ( 0*63 centim. ) diameter , with terminals nearly touching ( fig. 4 ) ; at first it required 2,400 cells to pass , then a single cell would do so , but after standing a short time it required 4,800 cells to reproduce a discharge .
In another tube If inches ( 4'4 centims. ) long , and S inch ( O'95 centim. ) diameter , with the terminals distant 0 00104 inch ( 0*0264 millim. ) , it required 2,240 cells to produce a discharge , then the potential had to be increased to 11,240 cells to do so .
Ultimately even this number failed , but after the tube had lain by for some days , 600 cells could pass .
It is very possible that the strong discharge in the first instance volatilized a portion of the terminals which were of platinum , and that this volatilized metal condensed afterwards , or else that the terminals absorbed the gas so completely as to produce a vacuum too perfect to admit of a discharge taking place ; and that , ultimately , sufficient of the occluded gas was again given off to render it again possible .
In connexion with the occlusion of gas by terminals , a case is described in which the terminals are of palladium , and the charge hydrogen ( fig. 5 ) .
After a few discharges the terminals occluded some of the gas , and when a fresh one was produced , a volatile compound of hydrogen and palladium was given off , especially from the negative , and produced a dense mirror-like coating on the inside of the tube 1883 .
] Electric Discharge with Chloride of Silver Battery .
295 ( go- .
6 ) ; this was re-occluded by standing for a couple of days , leaving the tube free , and again given off to form a new mirror-like coating with a fresh discharge ; this property has continued since March , 1875 .
Fig. 5 .
.\gt ; j Fig. 6 .
The paper next describes experiments to ascertain the length of the spark in dry air and in air saturated with moisture .
It was found to be practically the same in both cases .
With 10,860 cells the mean length of the spark between two paraboloidal points was found to be in dry air 045 inch ( 11 centims. ) , in moist air 0447 inch ( 1*1 centims. ) .
The next subject taken up is the discharge in a tube from two batteries , first in the same , and then in contrary directions .
In the tube are two terminals at each end , one pair at opposite ends being enclosed in two short pieces of tube , 9 inches ( 22'8 centims. ) long , and | inch ( T27 centims. ) diameter ; the main tube being 31 inches ( 95-2 centims. ) long and If inches ( 4'4 centims. ) diameter ( fig. 7 ) .
The various phases of the stratified discharge are represented in an engraved mezzotint steel plate copied from photographs , and show the effect of the one stratified discharge on another stratified discharge produced by a second battery .
It is seen that two discharges in contrary directions may take place in the same tube , and that the one modifies the aspect of the other .
Experiments are also described in a tube in the form of a cross with four arms at right angles ( fig. 8 ) ; with two separate batteries connected in various ways with the different members .
The experiments were made both in air and in hydrogen .
By the introduction of external resistance in one of the batteries , the discharge could be readily identified as belonging to that battery by the effect of the assistance on the character of the stratification .
In one of the mezzotint plates are several figures copied from photographs which show clearly the phenomena produced .
Calling the poles P and N , of one battery , A , and P ' and bP of the other , B , it is shown in one ease when two currents were equal 00083 ampere , that a discharge from A battery goes from P in the direction of bT only so far as the junction at the cross and then turns off to bP , the negative of the 29(\gt ; Drs. W. De La Rue and H. W. Muller .
[ June 14 other battery B ; while , on the other hand , the discharge of the B battery goes from P ' to N of the A battery .
The case is different if an external resistance is introduced in one of the discharges , reducing it to 0'00087 ampere , then the discharge of the A battery goes from P to 17 , and that of the B battery from P ' to N ' .
There is a bending down , however , of the strata of the weaker discharge at the cross junction , in consequence of the action of the stronger one .
18831 'ElectricDischavge with Clxlovide o/ Silvev .
29T The authors remark that one cannot hut be impressed , from the experiments described in the paper , and others in their former papers , , by the apparent plasticity of the aggregate assemblage of molecules constituting a stratum \#166 ; which yields to external influences that modify its form .
The authors describe and figure a case of complex strata in the form , of an outer bracket convex towards the negative ( fig* 9 ) , and close to it an inner chord ; also discharges in various gases in tubes of large dimensions , 37 inches ( 94 centims. ) long and 5j-S- inches ( 14'8 centims. ) diameter .
In these the stratification , which is comparatively narrow at the terminals , extends in a conical form from the terminals to the full diameter of the tube .
They have found that the dark space in the discharge in vacuum tubes is only relatively actinically dark in comparison with a stratum , , and they succeeded in obtaining a photograph of the dark space in thirty-five minutes as strong as that from a stratum in two and a-half seconds ; consequently they conclude that the dark space is 840 times less actinically bright than a stratum .
The authors next describe a number of experiments , by means of a Thomson-Becker electrometer used on a method , to avoid leakage , proposed to them by Professor Stokes , to ascertain the difference of potential in different parts of a vacuum tube having a number of rings sealed within it , also in other tubes of special construction .
These bring out instructive information in reference , not only to the relative resistances of different lengths of a column of gas at various pressures , but also forcibly to the impediment presented by the Fig. 8 .
jv ' Fig. 9 .
298 Drs. W. De La Rue and H. W. Muller .
[ June 14 terminals themselves to the passage of a discharge from gas to terminal and terminal to gas .
It is shown that , at moderate exhausts , the resistance to the passage I of the discharge is uniform along the length of the column of gas ] \lt ; and that at high exhausts it is not so , and that the total resistance increases but slightly with an additional length of the column ; moreover , that , at these low pressures , the main impediment is in the passage of electricity between gas and terminal or terminal and gas ; this is much greater at the negative than at the positive terminal .
The authors have next studied the electrical condition of a gas in the immediate vicinity of the negative terminal .
In order to do this they constructed a tube 4^ inches ( 11*4 centims. ) long and If inches ( 4-8 centims. ) diameter .
One terminal is in the form of a point , the other in the form of a ring .
The positive pole of the battery was connected with the point and the negative either to the ring alone or to earth as well ; the ring terminal of the tube was , when the battery j was insulated , connected with earth either by means of a stout wire | or 3 feet ( 91'4 centims. ) of fine platinum wire , 0*002 inch ( 0*005 !
centim. ) diameter , and offering a resistance of 81 ohms , or a moistened -cork offering a resistance of 4,300,000 ohms .
In the tube were sealed three idle wires , 1 , 2 , 3 , covered with the exception of their extremities with fine glass tubing ( fig. 10 ) .
No. 1 idle wire is 0*002 inch Fig. 10 .
'(0*005 centim. ) ; No. 2 0*2 inch ( 0*5 centim. ) ; and No. 3 0*6 inch '(1'5 centims. ) from the ring .
The ring terminal , when connected to earth , was found to be always at zero potential ; notwithstanding this there was frequently observed , more especially as the exhaust was increased , a negative potential when the idle wires were connected successively with the electrometer , amounting in one case with an air charge , pressure 0*01 millim. , at wire No. 2 , to 1,068 cells , at .wires 1 and 3 to 912 cells .
At other times a plus potential was observed .
Many experiments were made to determine the precise -conditions which developed a negative potential or a positive potential , but unsuccessfully , and it was inferred that this depended on the ] jy83 .
] Electric Discharge with Chloride of Silver Battery .
299 !
-condition of the discharge itself within the tube .
It is certainly very remarkable that while the potential of the negative ring was absolutely zero , a high negative potential should be developed in its near V1\lt ; The Authors remark that everyone familiar with the appearance of a i stratified discharge will have noticed when the negative terminal is a I ring , that as the exhaust proceeds a spindle of light approaches , and at last protrudes through the interior of it ( fig. 11 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ) ; this spindle they regard as a visible exponent of strong action among the molecules of gas composing it .
In order to probe its electrical condition , they prepared a tube with a central idle wire , surrounded by a minute glass tube , except its extremity , and projecting to a distance of a inch ( 0-95 centim. ) from the plane of the ring , which was made negative .
Another idle wire was sealed in the tube 0'15 inch ( 0-38 -centim .
) , from the periphery of the ring .
As the exhaust proceeded Fio .
11 .
with a charge of carbonic anhydride , the spindle approached the ring , and ultimately protruded through it .
It was found that the potential of the central idle wire increased with the exhaust , until it nearly or quite equalled that of the whole tube ; while that of the external idle wire was only 0'054 that of the tube .
A great number of experiments were made to test the potential across a stratum a , 6 , and across a dark space c , d , respectively , by 300 Electric Discharge with Chloride of Silver Battery .
[ June l| two idle wires sealed in suitable positions in a tube , one of which was connected with earth , the other with the electrometer ( fig. 11 The gases used were carbonic anhydride and hydrogen respectively As a mean of a great number of experiments it was found that when a dark space was straddled , the potential being reckoned 1 , then when a stratum was straddled , the potential was 1243 , 1*229 .
On testing two idle wires distant \#163 ; inch ( 1*6 centims. ) apart with a Thomson galvanometer , the current in this fractional part of a tube was found to go frequently in the reverse direction to that of the main current , and when the galvanometer was connected to two idle wires diametrically opposite , currents were indicated sometimes in one direction , sometimes in another across the tube ( fig. 12 ) .
These experiFio .
12 .
1 2 3 ments seem to indicate that there are eddies in the gas during a discharge , as if the motion of the molecules conveying an electric discharge was of an epicycloidal character .
The authors conclude by saying that it is possible that the eddies may be connected with the production of strata ,

