]\gt ; 1872 .
] M. J. Raynaud on Multile-Batter/ Rcsisiance .
159 distant from the end by about*part of iis length .
Near the end of the coil , the directions of force converge to point as exactly possible at the centre of the end of the coil .
The author then describes the graphic process by which he has resolved the entire magnetic forces into constituent parts in the directions longitudiual and to the gnet at every station , and gives tabular statements of the nitudes of those constituent parts .
A comparison is made with the results of assumed law , but no ctory greement is obtained .
An Appendix is subjoined , containing an investigation by Stuart , Esq. , of the theoretical attraction of a galvanic coil ) a small mass of magnetism , and a comparison of the lltmerical ) from this investigation with the numerical values found by perlment .
The agreement is satisfactory .
IV .
" " On a mode of Measuring the Intel.nal Resistance of a Multiple Battery by usting the Galvanometer to Zero By nlJnicated by .
STOKES , Sec. R. .
Rcccived ) nuary 1 , 1872 .
The author points out that the method given by Mr. IIenry Mance for this purpose , escril ) vol. .
of the oceedlngs of the al Society ' ( p. , is identical with he had imself pret given , which is described in the Comptes ' for July 22 , lS67 ; tleast only diffel.ence is NI .
Raynaud ibes tting the poles in connexion with the eartl ] , which of coul.se is not .
GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , , President , succeeded by Mr. C. B. ( as Deputy appointed by the ) , in ) Chair .
The President , on the part of the Council , submitted to the bIeeting the following Address of congratulation to be presented to the Queen:\mdash ; " " We , YouR MAJESTY'S most dutiful and loyal subjects , the Council , and Fcllows of the Royal Society of London for improving Natural Knowledge , desire humbly to offer to MAJESTY our ncere congratulations on the restoration to alth of His ROYAL HIGHNIiSS PRINCE 0F WALES . .
shared in the deep anxiety of YOUR the Natiou whilst HIS HIGHNESS lay ] ) rostrate under his dangerous 160 J. C. Maxwell on Induction .
[ Feb. : illness , we , with heartfelt rejoice with and all MAJESTY'S subjects throughout the His RoYAh HIGHNESS'S recovery .
That he may long be spared to YouR MAJESTY , to his Family , to the People of this Country , is the earnest wish and prayer of YOIJR MAJ and devoted ects , the Pre , sident , Council , and Fellows of the lloyal Society of London .
On the of Mr. C. B. Vignoles , seconded by Dr. Webster , it wa$ resolved that the Fellows do most cordially concur in the Address now read from the Chair .
The Address was then signed by the President on beh of the Counci and Fellows .
The following communications were read:\mdash ; I. " " On the Induction of Electric Currents in an Infinite Plans Sheet of uniform conductivity By Prof. J. MAXWELL , .
Received January 10 , 1872 .
1 .
When , on account of the motion or the change of strength of any magnet or , a change takes place in the magnetic field , elec tromotive forces are called into , and , if the material in which they act is a conductor , electric CUl.rents are produced .
is the phenomenon of the induction of electric currents , discovered by Farad I propose to the case in which the substance is in the form of a thin stratum or sheet , bounded by parallel planes , and of indefinite extent .
A system of magnets or elect .
is supposed to exist on the positive side of this sheet , and to vary in any way by changing its posit.on or its lsity .
We have to determine the nature of the rents induced in the sheet , and their magnetic effect at any point , and , in particular , their reaction on the electromagnetic system which gave rise to them .
The induced currents are due , partly to the direct action of the external system , and partly to their mutual inductive action ; so that the problem appears , at first sight , somewhat difficult .
2 .
The result of the investigation , however , may be presented in a remarkably simple form , by aid of the principle of images which was first applied to problems in electricity and hydrokinetics by SirW .
Thomson .
The essential part of this principle is , that we conceive the state of things : on the positive side of a certain closed or infinite surface ( which is really caused by actions having their seat on that surface ) to be due to an imaginary system on the negative side of the surface , which , if ic existed , and : if the action of the surface were abolished , would give rise to the actual state of things in the space on the positive side of the surface .
The state of things on the positive side of the surface is expressed by a mathematical function , which is different in form from that which presses the state of things on the negative side , but which is identical with .
J. C. Maxwell on Electric Induchon .
161 that which would be due to the existence , on the negative side , of a certain system which is cadled the Im The image , therefore , is what we arlive at by producing , as it were , the mathematical function as far as it will go ; jnst as , in optics , the virtual inage is by producing the rays , in straight lines , backwards from the place where their direccion has altered by reflexion or refraction .
3 .
The position of the of a in a plane surface is found by drawing a perpendicular from the point to the surface an it to an equal distance on the other side of the surface .
Ir the is of the same sign as the point , as it is in hydrokinetics when the surface is a plane , it is called a } ositive image .
If it is of the opposite , as in statical electricity , when the surface is a couductor , it is called a negative image .
The of a circuic is reckoned positive when the electric current flows in the corresponding directions correspon ding ) arts of the object and the .
The image is reckoned negative when the direction of the current is reversed .
In the case of the plane conducting sheet , the system on the negative side of the sheet is not the simple image , positive uegative , of the real magnet or electromagnet 011 the positive side , but consists of a moving train of , the nature of which we now proceed to define .
4 .
Let the electric resistance of portion of the sheet whose length is whose is , be R. is to be on the etic system , and is therefore a elocity , the value of which is indepc1ldent of the tlitude of the line ( If denotes the specific resistance of the material of the sheet for cube , and if is the thickness of the sheet , then ; and if denotes the specific resistHnce of the sheet a ( or any other ) square , 5 .
Let us begin by dividing the time into a number of intervals , eacb equal to The smaller we take these intervals the more accurate will be the detinition of the train of images which we shall now describe .
6 .
At a given time , let a positive of the or electromagnet be formed on the negative side of the sheet .
As as it is formed , let this imtlge begin to move away from the sheet in the direction 11 I of the normal , with the velocity , its form and intensity remaining constantly the same as that which the magnet at the time J. C. Maxwcll on Electric Induction .
eimag nitive isitive ivith tpursue esset apositive images a be , and the distance between corresponding points will be position , and let this image also travel in the direction of the normal the velocity be followed after an of time by a corre .
sponding negative .
Let these operations be repeated at in , tervals of time , each of these intervals being equal to 8 .
Thus at any given instant there lvill be a or trail of im with a single positive image , and followed by an endless succes , sion of pairs of images .
This trail , when once , continues un .
changeable in and intensity , and moves as a whole away from the conducting sheet with the constant velocity R. 9 .
If we now suppose the interval of time to be diminished withou limit , and the train to be extended without limit in the negative direction .
so to include the images which have been formed in all past he magnetic effect of imagin train at any point on the side of tlJe conducting stleet will be identical that of the electric currents which actually exist in the sheet .
Before proceeding to prove this st tement , let us take notice of the form which it assumes in certain cases .
10 .
Let us suppose the real system to be an electromagnet , and that its intensity , originally zero , suddenly becomes I , then remains constant .
At this instant a positive image is formed , which begins to travel with elocity .
R. After an another image il formed ; but at the same instant a second negative image is formed at the same place , which exactly neutralizes its effect .
Hence the result , that { positive im travels by itself along the normal with elocity R. The magnetic effect of this image on the positive side of the sheet is equivalent to that of the currents of induction actually existing in the sheet , and diminution of this effect , as the image moves away the sheet , represents the effect of the currents of induclion , which gradually decAy ou account of the resistance of the .
After a sufficient time , image is so distant that its effects are no longer sensible on the side.heet.urrent ognet bthele wtive irain w which fowed txcitement opposit direction .
Prof. J. C. Maxwell on Blectric Induction .
163 11 .
It appears from this that , when the electromngtlet is increasing in intensity , it will be acted on by a repulsive force the , and when its tensity is diminishing , it will be attracted towards the sheet . .
It also appears that if any system of currents is produced in the sheet and then left to itself , the effect of the decny of the currents , as observed at a point on the positive side of the sheet , will be the same as if the sheet , with its curren ts const , had been carried away in the negative ection w velocity R. 12 .
If a netic pole of stl.ength is brought from an infinite distance along a to es 1 to the sheet with velociCy towards the sheet , it will be repelled with a force ' where the distatlcefi.om the sheet at the given instant .
Tbis nula will not apply to the case of the pole away from the sheet , because in that case must take account of the curre1xts which excited when the pole begins to , which it does when the sheet .
13 .
If the magnctic pole moves in a straight line parallel to the sheet , with u1lifor]n velocity , it will be acted on by a force in the opposite direction to its motion , and equal to this force , it is ncted on by a force it the sheet , equal to 14 .
If the pole uniformly in a the trail is in the form of a hclix , { ltrl the calculation of its effect is more difficult ; it is casy , hower , to see that , besides the retarding force and the repelling force , there is also a force towards the centre of the circle .
15 .
It is shown , in my tt.eatise on Electricity uetism vol. ii .
art .
600 ) , that the currents in any system are the same , whether the conducting system or the inducing system be iu motion , provided the motion is the same .
Honce the results lready give ] are directly applicable to the case of ' rotating disk , provided the induced currents not sensibly affected by the limitation ?
rising from the edge of the disk .
These will introduce other sets of , which we shall not now investigate .
16 .
The the resistance of the sheet , whether from its thinness or from the low conducting-power of its , the greater is the velocity R. Hence in most actual cases is great compared with , the velocity of the external system , and the tr ) of im is nearly normal to 164 Prof. J. C. Maxwell on Electric Induction .
[ Feb. the sheet , and the induced cul.rents differ iittle from those which arise from the direct action of the external system ( see S 1 ) .
1 If the conductivity of the sheet were infinite , 01 its resistance zero , would be zero .
images , once formed , would remain ) , and all except the last formed positive image would be neutralized .
the trail would be reduced to a single tlve image , and the sheet would exert a repnlsive force on the pole , whether the pole be in motion or at rest .
I not say that this case does not occur in natule as we know it .
Somelhing of the is supposed to exist in the interior of molecules in Weber 's Theory of Diamagn etism .
emaiical Investigation .
18 .
Let the conductiog sheet incide with the plane of , and let thickness be so small that we neglect the variation of magnetic force at different points of the same normal within its substance , and that , for the same reason , the only currents which can produce sensible effects are those which are parallel to the surface of the sheet .
Current-function .
19 .
We shall define the currents in the sheet by means of the current function .
This function expr the quantity of electricity which , in unit of time , crosses from right to left a curve drawn from a point at in finity to the point P. This quantit will be the same for any two curves drawn from point to , provided no 's or leares the sheet at } nypo.int between these c. Hence is a single-valued function of the posltlon of point P. The quantity hicb crosses the clement of any ) from right to left is By first to the axis of ) then cular to the of , we obtain for the components of the electric currenl in the directions of and of respectively . . . .
( 1 ) 1@72 .
] Prof. J. C. Maxwcll on Electric Induction .
165 The whole system of electric currents in the sheet will therefore be equivalent to a complex magnetic shell , consisting of all the simple shells , defined as above , into which it cau be divided .
The strength of the equivalent complex shell at any point will be We pose this shell to consist of two parallel plane sheets of imaginary gnetic matter at a very small distance , the surface-density being on the posive sheet , on the negative sheet .
21 .
To find the magnetic due to this complex plane shell at any not in its substance , let us ) egin l finding , the potential at the due to a plane sheet of imaglnary magnetic matter whose surface-density is , and which coincides with the plane of The potential due to the positive sheet whose -deusity is , and which is at a distance on the side of the plane of , is .
That due to the negative sheet , at a distance on the negative side of the plane of ] , is .
Hence the magnetic potential of the shell is ( 2 ) This , thercforc , is the value of the netic potential of the -sheet at given ) oint on the positive side of it .
Within the sheet there is no magnetic ) otentiaJ , and at any on the negative slde of the sheet the is cqual and of oJosite to that at the pomt on the positive side .
22 .
At positive the magnetic potential is . . .
( 3 ) At the tive surf . . . . . .
( 4 ) norm11 component of magnetic force the positive sir ( ace is . . .
5 In the of the maguetic shell , the netic force is discontinuous at the ; but in the case of the current-shect this expression gives the nlue of within the sheet itself , as well as the space outside .
23 .
Let be components of the electromagnetic momentum at any point in , due to external electromagnetic ction as lvell as to Prof. J. C. Maxwell on Electric Induction .
Feb. hat of the cnrrents in } sheet , therl the force in the direc .
tions of is ' w'nere is the electric potential* ; and by Ohm 's law this is eq to where is the specific resistnnce of the sheet .
Hence Similal .
lie , . . .
( 6 ) Let the exterual system be such that its magnetic potential is by - , then he actual netic potential will be , . . . .
( 7 ) and , , . . . .
( 8 ) Hence equatious ( 6 ) become , by introducing the stream-function ( 1 ) , ( 9 ) solution of these equations is , constant . . . .
( 10 ) Substituting the value of in terms of , as given in equation ( 4 ) , . . .
( 11 ) The ntity is evidently a velocity ; let us therefore for concise ness call it theu . .
( 12 ) 24 .
Let be the alue of at the time , and at a point on side of the sheet , whose coordinates are , and let . . . . .
AC the uppel .
limit when is infiuite vauishes .
Hence at the limit , when and , we must have Dynamical Theory of Iectromagnet 'Field , \ldquo ; .
Trans. 1865 , p. Prof. J. C. Maxwell on Electric Induction .
but by equation ( 12 ) Hence the equation will be satisfied if we make .
( 16 ) .
This , , is solution 01 ' the problem .
Any other solution must differ from this by a system of closed currents , depcnding on the initial state of the sheef , nob due to tcrllal cause , itnd which therefore must decay rapidly .
IIence , assume an eternity of ) time , this is the only solution of the problen ] .
This solution expresses , a function due to the action of the induced current , in tel.ms of , and this of function of the same kind due to the netic system .
By differentiating and with respect to ve obt the netic potential , and by differentiating them with respect to , we , the CUl.rent-function .
Hence the relation , as expressed by equation ( 16 ) , is similar to the rlntion b the external system and its trail of as expressed in the descrlption of these the first part of this paper ( SS6 , 7 , 8 , 9 ) , is simply an .
of the meaning of equation ( 16 ) combined the definition of in S 24 .
At the time when aper wlitten , I was uot able to refer to two papers by Prof. Fehci , in Tot.tolini 's di Scienze ' for 1854 , in which he cusscs the ind tion of currents in solid tneous conductors in ) sheet , and to two papers by Jochmann in Crelle 's 1861 , and one in ' for 1864 , on the ents ilced in a rotating cond lctor by a mngtlet .
Neither of these Wl.itershtl ve attempted 10 take nccount the tive action of the ents on each have the existeoce of such an ction , and given utious expressing it .
1I .
the case of a ) al:most in contact with a .
L. Jochmann solves the case in which the pol is at a finite the planle of the disk .
IIe has awn the forms of the -lines and of the equipotcnlial lines , in the of a pole , and in the case of poles of } ) name at cqu lces from the axis of the disk , bub on ) sides of it , has pointed out why the cul'rent-lines are , as encci at first supposed , to the ] lines , which he traced imentally .
not ) ware th principlc of , as described in paper presented to the lloyal Society , has been iously applied to the phenomena of induced currents , or that the problem of the ltlduc .
of VOL. to a sheet of any gree of conductivity .
The statement in equation ( 10 ) , that the motion of a magnetic does not produce differences of potential in the infinite sheet , may somewhat str.ange , since we know that currents maybe collected by electro4 touching the sheet different points .
These currents , however , dep entirely on the inductive action on the part of the circuit not included in the sheet ; for if the whole circuit lies in the plane of the sheet , but is arranged as not to interfere the ulliform conductivity of the sheet , theri will be no difference of potential in any part of the circuit .
This is out by Felici , who shows that when the currents are induced by the taneous magnetization of a magnet , these currents are not accompanled w differences of potential in different parts of the sheet .
the sheet is itseIf in motioi ] , it appears , from art .
600 of treatise On Electricity and Magnetism , ' that the electric potential point , as measured by means of the electrodes of a fixed circuit , is where the omponents of the velocity of the of the sheet to which the electrode is applied .
In the case of a sheet revolving with velocity about the axis of , thb becomes .
Note 2.\mdash ; The velocity for a copper plate of best quality 1 in thickness is about 25 metres per second .
Hence it is only for small velocities of the that lve can obtain auy approximation the true result by neglecting the mutual induction of the currents .
Feb. 13 .
II .
On some atives of Uramidobenzoic Acid By P. GRIEA F.R.S. Received January , 1872 .
This acid , of which I gave a short description some time ago* , the composition .
I obtained it in the first instance the basic compound , whicl1 is one of the products of the lion of cyanogen on an alcoholic solution of amidobenzoic acid .
it eitsch . .
Chem. 1868 , p. 389 .

