3 .
{ " An Account of Meteorological Observations in four Balloon Ascents made under the direction of the Kew Observatory Committee of the British Association .
" By John Welsh , Esq. Communicated by Colonel Sabine , R.A , , Treas .
, V.P.R.S. , President of the British Association , on the part of the Council of the Association .
IReceived April 27th , 1853 .
The object contemplatedl by the Kew Committee in the balloon ascents , of which an account is given in this communication , was chiefly the investigation of the.variations of temperature and humidity due to elevation above the earth 's surface .
Specimens of the air at different heights were also obtained for analysis .
The instruments employed were the barometer , dryand wet-bulb hygrometer , and Regnault 's condensing hygrometer .
The barometer was a siphon , on Gay-Lussac 's construction , without verniers ; the upper branch of the siphon being alone observed , corrections having been previously determined for inequality of the tube at different heights of the mercury .
Two pairs of dry and wet thermometers were used , one pair having their bulbs protected from radiation by double conical shades open at top and bottom for the circulation of the air , the surfaces being of polished silver .
The second pair were so arranged , that by means of an " aspirator , " a current of air was made to pass oyer the bulbs more rapid than they would be exposed to by the mere vertical motion of the balloon .
The object of this arrangement was to enable the thermometers to assume with more rapidity the temperature of the surrounding air , and also to diminish the effect of radiation , in case the shades should not be a sufficient protection , especially when the balloon was stationary or rising very slowly .
The thermometers used were very delicate , the bulbs being cylinders about half an inch long and not more than x-ith of an inch diameter , It was found on trial that when the bulbs were heated 20 ?
above the temperature of the air in a room , they resumed their original reading in 40 or 45 seconds , when moved through the air at the rate of 5 or 6 feet in a second .
It is thus probable that any error arising from want of sensibility in the thermometers will be small , and in all likelihood not more than may be expected from other accidental causes .
The observations were taken at short intervals during the asce.t , it having been seldom practicable to obtain a regular series in the descent .
The intervals were generally one minute , but frequently only 30 ' seconds , so that an observation was for the most part recorded every 200 or 300 feet .
All the observations are given in detail in the tables accompanying the paper .
They are also given in the graphical form in the curves .
The ascents took place on August 17 , August 26 , October 21 , and November 10 , 1852 , from the Vauxhall Gardens , with Mr. C. Green 's large balloon .
The principal results of the observations may be briefly stated as follows : Each of the four series of observations shows , that the progress of the termperature is not regular at all heights , but that at a certait height ( varying on different days ) the regular diminution becomes arrested , and for the space of about 2000 feet the temperature remains constant or even increases by a small amount : it afterwards resumes its downward course , continuing for the most parf to diminish regularly throughout the remainder of the height observed .
There is thus , in the curves representing the progression of temperature with height , an appearance of dislocation , always in the same direction , but varying in amount froi .
7 ?
to 12 ? .
In the first two series , viz. Aug. 17 and 26 , this peculiar interruption of the progress of tenmperature is strikingly coincident with a lrge and rapid fall in the temperature of the dew-point .
The same is exhibited in a less marked manner on Nov. 10 .
On Oct. 21 a dense cloud existed at a height of about 3000 feet ; the temperature decreased uniformly from the earth up to the lower surface of the cloud , when a slight rise commenced , the rise continuing through the cloud and to about 600 feet aboe its upper surface , when the regular descending progression was resumed .
At a short distance above the cloud the dew-point fell considerably , but the rate of diminution of temperature does not appear to have been affected in this instance in the same manner as in the other series ; the phenomenon so strikingly shown in the other three cases being perhaps modified by the existence of moisture in a condensed or vesicular form .
It would appear on the whole that about the principal plane of condensation heat is developed .
in the atmosphere , which has the effect of raising the temperature of the higher air above what it would have been had the rate of decrease continued uniformly from the earth upwards .
There are several instances of a second or even a third sudden fall in the dew-point , but any corresponding variation in the temperature is not so clearly exhibited , probably owing to the total amount of moisture in the air being , :at low temperatures , so very small that even a considerable change in its relative amount would produce but .
small thermal effect .
As the existence of the disturbance in the regular progression of temperature now stated rendered it necessary , in order to arrive at any approximate value of the normal rate of diminution with height , to make abstraction of the portion affected by the disturbing cause , each series was divided into two sections , the first comprising the space below the stratum in which the irregularity existed , and the second commencing from the point where the regular diminution of temperature was resumed .
It was then found that the rate of diminution was nearly uniform within each section , but that it was somewhat greater in the lower than in the upper sections .
On taking a mean of both sections for each series , giving each section a value corresponding to its extent , it is found that ' the number of feet of height corresponding to a fall of one degree Fahrenheit isOn August 17 ... ... . .
292-0 feet .
August 26 ... ... . .
2907 October 21 ... ... . .
291-4 , November 10 ... ... 312-0 , The first three values being remarkably coincident , and the last differing from them by about L--th of the whole .
The air collected in the ascenets was analysed by Dr. Miller ; he states that " the specimens of air do not differ in any important amount from that at the earth at the same time , but contain a trifle less oxygen .
All of them contained a trace of carbonic acid , but the quantity was too small for accurate measurement upon the small amount of air collected .
"

