476 Gametogenesis of the Gall-Fly , Neuroterus lenticularis.\#151 ; Part II .
By Leonard Doncaster , M.A. , Fellow of King 's College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. W. Bateson , F.R.S. Received January 25 , _ Read March 16 , 1911 .
) [ Plate 17 .
] Introduction .
In the first part of this paper* I described the life-history , spermatogenesis , maturation of the fertilised egg , fertilisation and segmentation divisions of the summer generation of the gall-fly lenticularis ( Spathegaster baccarum ) , and gave some observations on the maturation of the eggs of the spring generation , and on the somatic mitoses in males and females .
These latter observations were admittedly incomplete owing to lack of material , and this second part of the paper attempts to complete the account of what was left uncertain in the first communication .
Before proceeding to describe my fresh observations it may be well shortly to summarise the results arrived at in the first part .
The spring generation of F. lenticularis consists of females which lay parthenogenetic eggs ; those laid by some females develop into males , those laid by others develop into sexual females , both of which hatch in June .
The eggs of the summer females undergo a double maturation division , leaving 10 chromosomes in the nucleus of the mature egg .
The spermatogonia of the males in the same generation have 10 chromosomes ; the first spermatocyte division is suppressed ; in the second spermatocyte division the chromosomes divide , 10 entering each spermatid .
A small staining extra-nuclear body found in the spermatocytes does not divide , and is included in only half of the spermatids .
In fertilisation , the egg and sperm nuclei each contain 10 chromosomes , and the segmentation divisions of the fertilised egg show 20 .
For a complete study of the maturation and segmentation of the parthenogenetic spring eggs my material was insufficient , but it suggested that the eggs laid by some females underwent maturation and showed 10 chromosomes in the segmentation divisions , and that others had no polar divisions and showed 20 .
Since somatic and oogonial mitoses of the summer female have 20 chromosomes , but the spermatogonial mitoses and those of the developing nervous system in the male only 10 , it was suggested that the eggs which undergo maturation * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 82 , p. 88 .
Gcwietogenesis of the Gall-Fly , N. lenticularis .
477 produce males , the others females .
An attempt was made , in conclusion , to connect these phenomena with what is known of sex-determination in other animals .
The material on which the observations here recorded were made was collected in March and April , 1910 ; the methods adopted were essentially those described in Part I , the eggs laid by each female being fixed and preserved separately at intervals from one to nine hours or more after being laid .
In addition to Petrunkewitsch 's fluid another formula of .
alcoholic sublimate was tried ( 50 per cent , alcohol with sublimate to saturation + 6 per cent , acetic acid ) , but the results obtained were inferior to those yielded by Petrunkewitsch 's mixture .
Additional experiments were made to test the conclusion that the eggs laid by any fly are all male-producing or all female-producing ; 65 flies were sleeved out in March and April on oak-trees which had proved successful in the previous year , and 16 of these yielded galls early in June .
Unfortunately many of the galls had been attacked by parasites , greatly reducing the number of flies that hatched , so that the results , although not discordant with the last year 's experiments , are of little value .
The only considerable number obtained was 12 females from 19 galls produced by one parent .
Mr. H. Scott has very kindly examined the external characters and mouth parts of a few male-producing and female-producing parthenogenetic females , and finds no recognisable differences between them except slight differences in size , which are probably accidental .
Maturation of the Eggs of the Spring ( Generation .
The part of the previous work which chiefly required completion and confirmation was that dealing with the maturation of the spring ( parthenogenetic ) eggs .
It was found that in the eggs laid by some females polar divisions , or , at a later stage , groups of polar chromosomes , occurred , and , in the few cases in which the chromosomes of the segmentation mitoses could be counted in such eggs , the number appeared to be 10 .
In eggs laid by other females no polar chromosomes could be found , and these eggs showed 20 chromosomes where they could be counted in the segmentation division-figures .
The number of cases observed was , however , not sufficient to substantiate this conclusion with certainty , especially since in some of the less well-preserved eggs the chromosomes were clumped together in the metaphase of the segmentation divisions , and might show in one part of the egg what appeared to be 10 or even fewer large chromosomes , VOL. lxxxiii.\#151 ; b. 2 N 478 Mr. L. Doncaster .
[ Jan. 25 , while elsewhere in the same egg the full diploid number ( 20 ) was clearly present .
In the spring of 1910 I collected series of eggs from a large number of females , and from them obtained nineteen series of sections of well-preserved eggs , averaging about 27 eggs from each female , besides several smaller or less well-preserved series .
Since the rate of development had proved rather variable in previous years , these were fixed at various ages , and not all the series show every stage from the undivided egg-nucleus up to segmentation divisions in which the chromosomes can be counted .
Since , however , most of the series included eggs between two and six hours old , the majority show most of the stages desired , and several series are very complete .
A comparison of the various series shows at once that they mostly fall into two groups : some show the diploid number ( 20 ) of chromosomes whenever the segmentation mitoses are clearly countable , and these never contain groups of polar chromosomes in the segmentation stages ; others show the haploid number ( 10 ) in segmentation divisions , and in these a double or triple group of polar chromosomes can be found at the edge of the egg in nearly every specimen in which the sections are complete .
Out of the nineteen series of eggs , five series are of the first type , containing diploid segmentation divisions and no polar chromosomes , while one other series , though containing only one egg with a recognisable mitosis , belongs to this type from the complete absence of polar chromosomes in the early segmentation stages .
Of the second ( haploid ) type , seven series of eggs show undoubted polar mitoses or polar chromosomes ; in two of these segmentation mitoses occur which are certainly haploid , and in two others , though the chromosomes cannot be counted accurately , the mitoses are almost certainly haploid .
In the other three series there are no segmentation mitoses at a stage when the number of chromosomes can be estimated .
Judged by the presence or absence of polar chromosomes , therefore , there are six series of the unreduced and seven of the reduced type ; five of the former show diploid , two of the latter certainly haploid , segmentation mitoses .
In the series of eggs collected in .
1909 the proportion of the diploid type was probably greater .
In the remaining six of the 1910 series all the eggs are too young to be classified wTith confidence .
The fact that only two out of seven haploid series contain eggs with undoubted haploid segmentation mitoses , may seem insufficient evidence that eggs containing polar chromosomes have reduced segmentation nuclei , but it must be remembered : ( 1 ) that in none of the eggs with diploid mitoses can polar chromosomes be found , and ( 2 ) that every egg in which the sections are all complete shows polar chromosomes when the mitoses are haploid .
In some 1911 .
] Gametogenesis of the Ga , N. lenticularis .
479 of these the reduced number is so clear as to leave no doubt , while in a number of eggs of the diploid series the absence of polar chromosomes , even at a stage when there are only two segmentation nuclei , is equally certain .
This will become clearer in the detailed account of the maturation and segmentation stages which follows .
In eggs belonging to both diploid and haploid series the early stages are alike .
The nucleus appears as a rather small oval body , deeply and evenly stained , usually about half-way between the free end of the egg and the base of the stalk , either in the centre of the egg or nearer one side ( Plate 17 , fig. 1 ) .
It then approaches one side of the egg , at first with its long axis perpendicular to the egg-membrane , but as it reaches the edge it becomes round and finally flattened against the edge ( figs. 2 , 3 ) .
The nucleus then swells , and becomes an oval vesicle lying close to the edge with its long axis parallel to it , and an irregular spireme or network of chromatin bodies is now visible within it ( figs. 4 , 5 ) .
From this stage onward the behaviour of the nucleus in eggs of the two types is different .
In eggs of the diploid series the nucleus in prophase of division as just described sinks for a short distance into the egg , and forms a mitotic figure parallel with the edge of the egg .
I have only one egg in which the equatorial plate of this division is shown , and since it is lying sideways to the plane of the section the chromosomes cannot be counted accurately , but they are almost certainly more than ten .
Several anaphase stages with the axis of the spindle parallel with the edge of the egg have been found : in one of these ( fig. 6 , a , in which the figure is cut in face in two successive sections , in one section 10 chromosomes are visible , while at the other a larger number appears , but it is not clear how many are cut so as to appear in both sections .
Many cases have been found in which the first division is just completed , and two vesicular nuclei occur , both near the edge of the egg and lying in a line parallel with it .
At first the nuclei are near together and are quite small ( fig. 7 ) ; later they enlarge and are found at a greater distance apart .
In several such eggs the series of sections is quite complete , and no trace of polar chromosomes can be found .
The next division of these two nuclei appears usually to be perpendicular to the edge of the egg , and may be seen to show considerably over 10 chromosomes , even if they cannot be counted with complete accuracy .
In the later divisions the 20 chromosomes can usually be counted most easily in anaphase ( fig. 8 , cf. fig. 46 of Part I of this paper ) ; in some cases in prophase about 20 irregular meridional chromatic bands can be counted in the nucleus before the membrane disappears ( fig. 9 ) .
In some later prophases the intra-nuclear origin of the greater part of the spindle is seen ( fig. 10 ) .
Sometimes in metaphase in eggs which are not very well fixed the chromosomes become Mr. L. Doncaster .
[ Jan. 25 , clumped together , and may give the appearance of about 10 or fewer very thick chromosomes .
If care is not exercised such figures maybe mistaken for haploid mitoses , but a little experience at once shows the difference , and usually in other parts of these eggs undoubted diploid mitoses may be found .
In all these cases no polar chromosomes can be found in any egg of the series to which they belong .
In the eggs of the haploid type the behaviour of the nucleus does not differ from that described until it has become flattened against the edge of the egg , and has then begun to swell , so that instead of being an evenly stained body it takes the form of an oval vesicle in which chromatic masses are distinguishable .
Instead of sinking into the egg it continues to enlarge at the edge and occasionally a stage may be found in which the chromatin is aggregated at the two sides of the nucleus , one mass being next to the edge of the egg and the other towards the inside ( fig. 11 ) .
As was described in the previous part , both for the summer and spring eggs , no regular equatorial plate has ever been found .
The next stage , of which I have a number of examples , shows the chromosomes separating into two groups ; an inner in which they appear as a group of parallel rods as in an ordinary anaphase , and an outer in which they are very irregularly arranged in a loose group close to the edge of the egg .
In some sections of this stage ( fig. 12 ) it can be seen that the inner group of parallel chromosomes is in the equator of an elongated mitotic spindle , and although I have no very clear figures of these stages , those which I have suggest that the rod-like chromosomes divide transversely , giving rise at the inner end of the spindle to the egg-nucleus , at the outer end to a second group of polar chromosomes ( fig. 13 , a , Plate 3 , fig. 42 of first part of this paper ) .
In this way a large outer and smaller inner group of polar chromosomes arise , and during the segmentation stages two groups are often found , one of which frequently contains about 10 chromosomes .
In other cases the outer group appears to divide into two , both of which are irregular and can never be counted with accuracy .
Fig. 14 , a , b , represents the only case in which I have found this division taking place .
On the whole it is clear that the polar divisions of the spring eggs which undergo maturation do not differ widely from those of the summer eggs , which require fertilisation , as described in Part I. There is in both essentially a double polar division , in the first part of which an irregular outer group of chromosomes separates from a more regular inner group , followed immediately by the division of the inner into egg-nucleus and inner polar group , each of which contains the 1911 .
] Gametogenesis of t Gall-Fly , N. lenticularis .
reduced number of chromosomes .
The whole process is so nearly simultaneous as to give the impression of a single division , a fact which led me to hazard the suggestion in Part I of this paper that only one maturation occurred in the parthenogenetic eggs .
The fresh material since collected , however , shows that the inner chromosome group does undoubtedly divide just after its separation from the outer , and the phenomena must therefore be interpreted , as in the summer eggs , as a modified double polar division .
The maturation thus differs rather in detail than in essence from what occurs in all other Hymenoptera in which the polar divisions have been examined .
After the polar divisions , the egg-nucleus sinks into the yolk and almost immediately forms the first segmentation spindle , so that the prophase of this mitosis may not rarely be found in the same section with the polar chromosomes .
The axis of the first segmentation spindle appears usually to lie nearly , but not quite , parallel to the long axis of the egg ; after the division is completed , the daughter nuclei travel widely apart , so that the division-figures of the second segmentation mitoses are usually widely separated .
In these and the later segmentation divisions the chromosomes are most easily counted in anaphase ; in metaphase they may be clumped , but , even so , differ from the clumped diploid groups described above in their smaller size .
In anaphase figures cut across it is possible to count 10 with confidence in some cases ( fig. 15 ) , and in a number of others to see clearly that the number is undoubtedly much less than 20 , though not accurately countable ( figs. 16 , a , b ; 17 , a , b ) .
In a few cases one chromosome appears to lag very much behind the others , as if it was being left out of the nucleus altogether , but in other eggs I have not seen anything of the kind , even when mitoses of the same stage are present .
During the segmentation mitoses , the groups of polar chromosomes persist at the edge of the egg ( fig. 18 ) , but when the nuclei come to the surface to form the blastoderm , they are no longer recognisable .
The chromosomes and mitotic figures in the blastoderm divisions are too small and crowded for counting to be possible .
Later Stages : Segmentation and Blastoderm .
I have no great number of sections of eggs in the later segmentation and blastoderm stages , but among them are some which show phenomena of interest .
In eggs which have a well-developed blastoderm , a number of nuclei remain in the yolk , and these are often of two types in the same egg .
There are a number of rather large vesicular nuclei , sometimes showing a faint reticulum , and , in the others , a clear space inside the membrane enclosing a more compact stained mass , rather suggesting that the nuclear contents have contracted .
Among these there are frequently many smaller Mr. L. Doncaster .
[ Jan. 25 , nuclei , either evenly stained throughout or consisting of a deeply stained mass surrounded by a narrow clear space .
When the nuclei of the blastoderm are dividing , which they all do simultaneously , they show clearly defined , though very small and compact , mitotic spindles ; the nuclei of the yolk in the same egg show no spindles , and strongly suggest amitotic division , for various stages can be found , from nuclei which are simply elongated to two or sometimes three nuclei in which the membranes are in contact ( figs. 19 , 20 , a , l ) .
Stages of this apparent amitotic division are found in the yolk-nuclei of most eggs in the blastoderm stage , whether the blastoderm-nuclei are undergoing division or not .
In advanced blastoderm stages below the layer of blastoderm-nuclei there is a belt of protoplasm with no yolk , and inside this the yolk fills the centre of the egg , and contains all the yolk-nuclei , none being found in the protoplasmic belt .
In two large series of eggs ( each laid by a single female ) a number of later segmentation stages are represented preceding the formation of the blastoderm .
Unfortunately , neither of these series contains any egg which shows conclusively whether it is haploid or diploid .
Both contain eggs showing bodies at the edge which might be remnants of the polar chromosomes , but which cannot be identified as such with certainty .
In some eggs , but not in all , of both series , very large nuclei occur , among which are scattered others of the normal size .
In late segmentation stages these large nuclei are sometimes found in division ; the figures are obscure , possibly owing to imperfect fixation , but appear to be diploid .
Divisions of the smaller nuclei , on the other hand , suggest haploid figures , but I have none in which the chromosomes can be counted ( fig. 21 , a , l ) .
In other eggs , some of these large nuclei are either undergoing amitotic division or are being formed by fusion of two or more smaller nuclei ; groups of two , three , or even more nuclei are found in close contact , while here and there are large , apparently single nuclei as big as the group of smaller ones ( figs. 22 , 23 , 24 ) .
In some eggs among these are nuclei which are drawn out into processes , or have an irregular shape ( fig. 25 ) .
At this stage the distinction between yolk- and blastoderm-nuclei cannot be made , for all are scattered indiscriminately through the egg ; they are most numerous at the lower end of the egg , towards the stalk .
In eggs of other series the nuclei are all alike at this stage , and show nothing unusual , but that the two series described are not entirely exceptional is shown by the occurrence of one or two similar eggs among later segmentation stages collected in 1908 .
That the phenomena are due entirely to bad preservation appears improbable .
From incomplete observations such as these it would be premature to draw definite conclusions , but it may be suggested provisionally that during the later 1911 .
] Gametogenesis of the Gall-Fly , N. lenticularis .
segmentation stages the nuclei become differentiated into two kinds ; some will form the blastoderm and continue to divide normally by mitosis , others remain as yolk-nuclei and show signs of degeneration in the frequent massing together of their chromatin into a single , large , deeply-staining mass , in their great variation in size , possibly due to fusion of nuclei in some cases , and lastly , in dividing irregularly by amitosis .
I find that such " yolk-nuclei " exist also in the blastoderm stages of the summer ( fertilised ) eggs , and these show signs of degeneration and indications of amitosis similar to those found in the spring eggs .
In an embryo of the summer generation fixed when three days old , the yolk is already largely absorbed and the yolk-nuclei appear to be undergoing atrophy .
Whether these suggestions are correct can only be determined by further work on fresh material collected for the purpose .
Ovarian Mitoses of Parthenogenetic Females .
In the spermatocyte divisions of the male , I described ( Part I , pp. 92 , 94 , and 95 ) a small extra-nuclear body which does not divide with the cell , and is , therefore , present in only half the spermatids .
It seemed not impossible that the presence of this body in half the spermatozoa might determine whether the fertilised egg developed into a male-producing or female-producing parthenogenetic individual .
To recognise such a body in the fully grown egg would be almost impossible , owing to the quantity of yolk , but it seemed just possible that it might occur in the oogonial mitoses of some of the parthenogenetic females .
I have cut sections of the ovaries of seven larvae of the parthenogenetic generation , in the hope of finding it , and in five of them oogonial mitoses occur in which no such body is visible .
In the other two no oogonia are in course of division .
It is possible , of course , that all these larvae would have developed into female-producing individuals , but since the extra-nuclear body is not recognisable in the spermatogonia in the male larva , it is more likely that if such a body is present in the female at all it is not to be found at so early a stage .
Mitoses in the Nervous System .
In a footnote added to the first part of this paper while in proof ( Part I , p. 91 ) I mentioned that in the developing nervous system of male larvae mitoses occurred with the haploid number ( 10 ) of chromosomes .
Examples of this are shown in figs. 26 , 27 , 28 , a ; I have not much to add to my earlier account .
I have found undoubted haploid figures in the nervous system of six male larvae , and in no male examined are there certainly no such mitoses ; in a few , no countable mitoses could be found .
In addition to the haploid mitoses I have occasionally found diploid figures ( figs. 28 , b ; 29 ) ; and Mr. L. Doncaster .
[ Jan. 25 , these appear to be in cells of a different kind .
In the younger larvje there appear to he cells of two kinds in the developing nervous system , some with numerous faint chromatic bodies in the nucleus , and a very small nucleolus which from their appearance and distribution are probably true nerve-cells .
others , more variable in size , with one or two large conspicuous nucleoli , which occur chiefly round the edge of the nervous system or in groups at a deeper level .
These latter cells resemble the mesoderm cells of the larva , and the diploid mitoses appear to occur in them ; possibly therefore they are immigrant mesoderm cells forming supporting tissue .
In female larva , of both spring and summer generations , I have found only diploid mitoses in the nervous system as elsewhere .
Abnormal Nuclear Divisions in the Larva .
In the footnote referred to above , in addition to the haploid divisions in the nervous system of the male larva , 1 mentioned that in larva of both sexes giant nuclei occur below the hypodermis , some 15 or 20 yu , in diameter , and that in the single mitosis which I had seen among these nuclei ( an anaphase , fig. 30 ) there were at least 50 chromosomes at each pole .
I have found no further divisions of this kind , and have made no full observations on the nature of the nuclei among which it occurs , They appear , however , to be in connection with developing muscle-fibres , between the hypodermis and the fat-body , and in younger larvee they seem clearly to be the nuclei of the cells from which muscles are developing .
The cells of the fat-body have also very large nuclei , which resemble those of the muscle cells rather closely , but usually have a less fine and regular distribution of the chromatin .
Similar nuclei occur in connection with the developing muscles of the spring generation , but I have not found any in mitosis .
Summary .
The more important observations recorded are as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
There are two kinds of parthenogenetic females in the spring generation of Neuroterus lenticularis , which lay eggs differing in their behaviour as regards maturation .
2 .
In the eggs laid by one class of female there is no maturation division ; the nucleus comes to the surface , reaches the stage of prophase of division , then sinks in for a short distance and divides by a mitotic spindle parallel with the egg-margin .
In such eggs early segmentation divisions show the diploid number ( 20 ) of chromosomes , and no polar chromosomes are ever found .
3 .
In eggs laid by the second class of female the preliminary behaviour 1911 .
] Gametogenesis of the Ga , N. lenticularis .
of the nucleus is similar to the former .
Instead , however , of sinking in , it divides at the surface by a division perpendicular to the edge , producing an irregular outer group of chromosomes ( first polar nucleus ) and an inner group of parallel rod-like chromosomes .
The latter divide immediately , apparently transversely , into an inner group which forms the egg-nucleus , and an outer or second polar group .
The first polar group may divide into two .
In the early segmentation mitoses of eggs of this class the haploid number ( 10 ) of chromosomes is found , and in complete series of sections of such eggs a double or triple group of polar chromosomes is always found at the edge of the egg .
4 .
Since it is known that some parthenogenetic individuals lay eggs which all develop into females , and others lay only male-producing eggs , and since the female shows the diploid chromosome number in all its cells , while the male has the haploid number in the spermatogonia and nerve-cells , it is suggested that the eggs which undergo no maturation division become females , those which undergo reduction males .
5 .
In the later segmentation stages of some eggs , and commonly in the yolk-nuclei of eggs which have reached the blastoderm stage , phenomena are described which are interpreted as indicating amitotic division .
6 .
The haploid mitotic figures in the nervous system of the male , referred to previously , are more fully described , and a case is mentioned of a mitosis in a developing muscle-cell with about three times the nofmal ( diploid ) number of chromosomes .
General Considerations .
The facts set forth above confirm the conclusions with regard to sex-determination in Neuroterus which were drawn provisionally in the first part of this paper .
There is no need , therefore , to discuss them further .
I attempted , however , in my previous discussion to link the phenomena of sex-determination in Neuroterus on to the results obtained by various methods in other groups of animals , and formulated a general scheme of sex-production , on the lines of Mendelian heredity , in which Neuroterus formed a special case .
This scheme consisted in the assumption that in general the female contains female and male sex-determinants , represented by the symbols ?
and \#163 ; , which segregate in oogenesis so that two kinds of eggs are produced , bearing ?
and \lt ; $ determinants respectively .
The male contains only the d determinant , but is heterozygous in the sense that in its unreduced germ-cells only one determinant is present , which goes into half the spermatozoa , the other half of the spermatozoa containing no sex-determinant .
This was expressed by representing the male as \#169 ; , Mr. L. Doncaster .
[ Jan. 25 , producing -bearing and \#169 ; -bearing spermatozoa ( the latter being those without sex-determinant ) .
Selective fertilisation was now supposed to occur , ?
-bearing eggs being fertilised by -bearing spermatozoa giving females ( \#165 ; \lt ; ?
) , \lt ; S - bearing eggs by \#169 ; -bearing spermatozoa giving males ( \lt ; ?\#169 ; \gt ; It was pointed out that while such cases as Abraxas grossulariata , the cinnamon canary , and several breeds of fowls prove that the female is heteiozygous in respect of sex , it is also clear that in some cases the male is in some sense heterozygous , as is proved by the inheritance of colourblindness and other affections in Man .
Since this was written , a new and remarkable case has been described by Morgan in Drosophila* in which the heterozygous condition of the male is proved in exactly the same way as that of the female is shown in Abraxas .
Now it is knowm from the work of Miss Stevensf that the male of Drosophila has a pair of unequal idio-chromosomes , and thus produces two kinds of spermatozoa , and a recent paper by Guyer| shows that in Man also two kinds of spermatozoa are formed .
It appears , therefore , that in both the best-established cases in which the heterozygous condition as regards sex of the male has been shown by experiment and observation in heredity , the male is also heterozygous in respect of chromosomes , and produces two visibly different kinds of spermatozoa .
In Abraxas , no such difference in the chromosomes of the spermatozoa is to be found , S nor has it been found by Miss Stevens or Miss Cook in other Lepidoptera.|| These facts naturally suggest that in some species the male is heterozygous as regards sex , in others the female , and tend to support the suggestion of Wilson,1T Castle , ** and Morgan , ff that specific male and female sex-determiners do not exist , but that femaleness consists in the presence of some extra factor superposed on what would otherwise produce maleness .
If the female receives this factor from both parents , the male from only one , the female would appear homozygous as regards sex , the male heterozygous ; if the female receives it from one parent and the male lacks it altogether , the female is heterozygous and the * 'Science , ' July , 1910 , vol. 32 , p. 120 .
t ' Journ. Exp. Zool. , ' vol. 5 , p. 365 .
X ' Biological Bulletin , ' 1910 , vol. 19 , p. 219 .
S Doncaster , 'Proc .
Camb .
Phil. Soc. , ' vol. 16 , pt .
1 , p. 44 .
|| 1ST .
M. Stevens , ' Carnegie Inst. , Washington , Publ .
, ' 1906 , 36 , Part 2 , p. 48 ; Cook , 'Proc .
Acad. Nat. Sci. , Philad .
, ' 1910 ; summarised , 'Zentralbl .
f. Allg .
u. Exp. Biol. , ' 1910 , p. 620 .
IT ' Science , ' January , 1909 , vol. 29 , p. 53 .
** ' Science , ' March , 1909 , vol. 29 , p. 395 .
++ 'Journ .
Exp. Zool. , ' 1909 , vol. 7 , p. 332 .
See also 'Amer .
Naturalist , ' vol. 45 , No. 530 , p. 65 , which has appeared since the above was written .
1911 .
] Gametogenesis of the Gal , N. lenticularis .
487 male homozygous .
This scheme is perfectly satisfactory as long as no case is known in which there is evidence from breeding experiments that both the male and female are heterozygous .
Hagedoorn* has described such a case in fowls , but his account is not very clear and no details are given .
It indicates that a heterozygous female , paired with a homozygous recessive male , transmitted the dominant character only to its male offspring ; the heterozygous males so produced transmitted , in the next generation , the dominant character only to their female children .
This , if correct , can only be explained on the assumption that both sexes are heterozygous for the sex-determinants , and that the dominant character is always associated in this instance with the determinant which I have represented by the symbol \lt ; $ .
The hypothesis of the American writers would then fall to the ground .
Apart from this case , there is no certain means of deciding between the two hypotheses ; that of Wilson , Castle , and Morgan is simpler in not requiring selective fertilisation , for which little evidence exists ; but until many more cases of sex-limited inheritance are known , and it is found that they never indicate that the heterozygous condition can exist in both sexes of the same species , both hypotheses accord equally well with the known facts .
One further possibility should be mentioned , which does not differ greatly from that suggested by Morgan in the paper referred to above , and also more recently by Montgomery.]* This i\#163 ; that the " factors " which have been referred to as sex-determiners are not really such , but that every individual contains potentially the character of both sexes\#151 ; is in fact potentially hermaphrodite\#151 ; but for the appearance of one or other of these characters additional factors are required .
If the factor which I have called the ?
determinant is present , it brings out the female characters and suppresses the male , if the \#163 ; determinant is present in the absence of the ?
, it brings out the male characters .
On such a hypothesis as this the results arrived at by Geoffrey SmithJ would be explained .
He infers a " sexual formative substance " in Malacostracan Crustacea , which causes the appearance of female characters ; when a male is parasitised by Sacculina the parasite induces the secretion of such a substance by the organism , and the animal assumes the female characters and may even produce eggs in its testis .
Even though such a male might , on the hypothesis summarised above , have the constitution \#169 ; , i.e. might not contain the factor which brings out the female characters , yet the secretion induced by the parasite might have the same effect as this factor , and thus cause the * ' Archiv f. Entwicklungsmechanik , ' 1909 , vol. 28 , pp. 18 , 26 .
+ 4 Biological Bulletin , ' 1910 , vol. 19 , p. 9 .
+ " Studies in the Experimental Analysis of Sex , " 'Q.J.M.S .
, ' 1910 , vol. 55 , p. 225 .
Mr. L. Doncaster .
[ Jan. 25 , female characters to appear .
This hypothesis of potential hermaphroditism of both sexes , combined with special and $ activators , would thus allow of the occasional modification of sex by environment , if the stimuli supplied were able to bring about the same physiological effects as the inherited S and ?
determinants .
* That environment may have some such effect in modifying somatic characters which are inherited alternatively is indicated by the work of Tower* and there seems to be no a priori reason for denying such an effect in the case of sex .
EXPLANATION OF FIGURES ON PLATE 17 .
All the figure are freehand drawings , made with a Zeiss aprochromat .
3 mm. , 1'40 n.a. , and compensating ocular 12 .
) Figs. 1\#151 ; 3.\#151 ; Three stages of the approach of the nucleus to the edge of the egg , preceding maturation .
Figs. 4 , 5.\#151 ; Prophases of first segmentation division ; diploid type of egg .
Fig. 6 ( a , b).\#151 ; First segmentation division , same series as figs. 4 , 5 ; and b show the mitotic figure cut in two successive sections .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Completion of first segmentation division ; same series as figs. 4\#151 ; 6 .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Anaphase group of segmentation mitosis , diploid type .
Nineteen chromosomes are visible in this section ; at the other end of the same spindle , two sections removed , 15 or 16 can be counted .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; Prophase of diploid segmentation division , showing about 20 chromosomes arranged in irregular meridional bands under the nuclear membrane .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Late prophase , same series as fig. 8 , showing intranuclear origin of spindle .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; Prophase of polar division , haploid type of egg .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; First polar division , nearly completed .
The division figure ran obliquely through two sections ; all the inner part is drawn from one section , the greater part of the outer group of chromosomes from the next .
Fig. 13 ( a , b).\#151 ; Second polar division ; the division figure runs obliquely through two sections , a represents the separation of the chromosomes of the egg-nucleus from the second polar chromosomes ; b , in the next section , the outer polar group .
Fig. 14 ( a , b).\#151 ; Two successive sections , showing completion of second polar division .
In a , egg-nucleus on right , second polar group in middle , part of division spindle of outer polar group on left ; b , division-figure of outer ( first polar ) group .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; Anaphase group of segmentation division , haploid type .
Fig. 16 ( a , b).\#151 ; Anaphases of haploid segmentation divisions ; a , cut across ; b , seen sideways .
Both from the same egg .
Fig. 17 ( a , b).\#151 ; Two late anaphases , haploid type , from the same egg .
In a only the chromosomes at the upper side of the figure are shown .
In b all the chromosomes ( S ) visible in the section are shown ; the other end of the figure was broken .
Fig. 18.\#151 ; Group of polar chromosomes during segmentation stages ; same egg as fig. 15 .
To the left , a large group of about 20 ( outer polar group ) ; to the right , smaller inner polar group .
* ' Biological Bulletin , ' 1910 , vol. 18 , p. 285 .
ff- iv mftC\amp ; S tCT .
a % / n Roy .
Soc. Proc. Bvol .
8j ) 5 " / / % I , r\#171 ; lO -# .
w rV .
; V .
fl / y 'f b 1911 .
] Gametogenesis of the Gall , N. lenticularis .
489 Fig. 19.\#151 ; Part of an egg in blastoderm stage , showing two groups of vesicular nuclei apparently undergoing amitotic division and two smaller nuclei with dark mass in the centre .
Fig. 20 ( a , b).\#151 ; Stages of apparent , amitotic division in blastoderm stage , a , early stagey b , a group of nuclei from another part of the same section .
Fig. 21 ( a , b).\#151 ; Division-figures in an abnormal egg .
a , division of smaller nucleus suggesting haploid type ; b , division of larger nucleus in the same egg .
Fig. 22 ( a , b).\#151 ; Nuclei in an egg from same series as fig. 21 .
a , ordinary nucleus b , large nucleus undergoing amitotic division or fusion .
Fig. 23 ( a , b).\#151 ; a , amitotic division or compound fusion ; b , single nucleus from same egg .
Same series as figs. 21 , 22 .
Fig. 24.\#151 ; Group of nuclei ( amitosis or fusion ) .
The two nuclei to the left are drawn from the next section to the larger group .
Same series as fig. 20 .
Fig. 25.\#151 ; Nucleus showing irregular shape .
Same egg as fig. 24 .
Figs. 26 , 27.\#151 ; Haploid divisions ( metaphase ) in nervous system of male larvae ( summer generation ) .
In fig. 27 each chromosome is seen split preparatory to division .
Fig. 28 ( a , b).\#151 ; Two equatorial plates in the nervous system of male larva , a is haploid ( 9 , or possibly 10 , chromosomes visible ) ; b , diploid ( about 16 visible ) .
Fig. 29.\#151 ; Diploid group , nervous system of male larva ( same specimen as fig. 28 ) .
Eighteen chromosomes are visible .
Fig. 30.\#151 ; Mitosis of giant nucleus in muscle-cell , female larva , summer generation .
The figure extends through two sections , only one of which is represented .
Less than half of the chromosomes are shown .

