221 On Medullosa pusilla .
By D. H. Scott , LL. D. , D.Sc .
, For .
Sec. R.S. ( Received August 12 , \#151 ; Read November 20 , 1913 .
) [ Plate 13 .
] In the second edition of my ' Studies in Fossil Botany , ' I referred in the following words to the fossil plant which forms the subject of this notice .
" A very small Medullosa ( named provisionally Medullosa pusilla ) , the stem with the leaf-bases not exceeding 2 cm .
in diameter , has since been found by Mr. P. Whalley , of Colne , Lancashire .
The stem has three steles , and agrees very closely with M. anglica , except in size."* In order to clear the ground for other observers , it now seems desirable to give some further account of this fossil , with the necessary illustrations .
Though the plant differs in no important respect from the now well-known species M. anglica , it is of some interest , as probably the smallest Medullosa on record .
The fossil , as Mr. Whalley informs me , comes from the Soap-stone , immediately above the Halifax Hard Bed of the Lower Coal Measures .
Its horizon may thus be compared with that of the roof-nodule specimens in other localities .
I have only two sections of the stem , sent me by Mr. Whalley on January 24 , 1906 .
There are also a couple of sections received this year which appear to be of the same plant , and perhaps of the same specimen , but only show a leaf-base or petiole .
Both the sections of the stem are transverse , but in one of them a steal is shown partly in longitudinal section , owing , no doubt , to displacement ( Plate 13 , fig. 2 , above ) .
This has enabled me to compare the minute structure of the wood with that of M. anglica .
General Structure .
The extreme dimensions of the specimen as shown in the sections are 22 x 13 mm. ; the form is much distorted , and in the direction of the longest diameter tissue has manifestly been lost .
Three leaf-bases are present , one of which is well preserved and practically complete , while the other two are crushed and imperfect ( figs. 1 and 2 ) .
They all contain numerous vascular bundles , and are bounded by a " Sparganum " cortex , * P. 441 , footnote .
VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; B. R Dr. D. H. Scott .
The best leaf-base measures about 13 mm. in the tangential and 8 mm. in the radial direction .
The tri-stelar vascular system of the stem ( fig. 3 ) is enclosed in a definite but irregular ring of dark tissue , which , judging from the best-preserved portion , is evidently an internal periderm text-fig .
B ) .
The approximate dimensions of the region enclosed by the periderm are 7 x 5*5 mm. The general structure is clearly the same as that of anglica , in which three leaf-bases appear in the transverse section , and the vascular system is also normally tri-stelar ( Scott , '99 , text-fig .
, p. 126 , Plate 5 , Phot .
1 ) .
In the specimen of M. anglica referred to , the dimensions in its present condition are 10'5 x 3'7 cm .
The natural diameter would no doubt have been a little over 7 cm .
, and the other specimens investigated do not differ greatly in size .
In M. pusilla the natural diameter cannot be directly measured , as two of the leaf-bases are crushed and incomplete .
Judging from the radius of the best-preserved portion , the true diameter must have been just about 2 cm .
This gives a proportion between M. anglica and M. of rather more than 3'5 :1 .
If we compare the stelar systems , the difference is somewhat greater\#151 ; that of M. anglica in the best-preserved specimen measuring about 4x2 cm .
as against 7 x 5*5 mm. in M. pusilla , taking the periderm as the boundary in both cases .
From the flieans , 3 cm .
and 0'625 cm .
respectively , we get a proportion of 4*8 :1 .
Roughly , we may say that the linear dimensions of M. pusilla were about one quarter of those of a typical specimen of M. anglica .
Stelar System .
The three steles are nearly equal in size , attaining a diameter of about 3 mm. Little is preserved except the wood , though here and there remains of the cambium and phloem can be found .
The primary wood has a somewhat triangular transverse section ( fig. 3 ) .
It is composed for the most part of tracheides , with comparatively little xylem-parenchyma among them .
The smallest elements , presumably protoxylem , are found at the prominent angles , very near the outside of the primary xylem , but whether the structure was slightly mesarch or actually exarch could not be determined with certainty ; there is evidence pointing in both directions .
Similar difficulties were met with in the case of M. , but there , with the help of the longitudinal sections , it was possible to obtain definite proof of mesarch structure ( Scott , '99 , Plate 10 , fig. 5 ) .
In M. pusilla the partially longitudinal section of one steal does not clearly show the position of any protoxylem group .
The secondary wood is very unequally developed , attaining its greatest thickness , about 12 elements , on the inner side of the steles ( fig. 3 ) , as has On Medullosa pusilla .
223 also been observed in M. anglica ( Scott , '99 , p. 89 , Plate 5 , Phot .
1 , Plate 6 , Phot .
5 ) .
On the outer side it thins out , or may even be interrupted , perhaps in connection with the departure of a leaf-trace bundle .
The medullary rays are numerous , with the tracheide-bands between them only 1-3 elements in width .
The longitudinal section shows something of the primary as well as the secondary wood .
In both , the tracheides have multiseriate bordered pits , sometimes ranged in as many as six rows .
One or two narrow scalariform or spiral elements .
can also be recognised in the outer part of the primary Text-fig .
A.\#151 ; Approximately radial section , of part of secondary wood , showing tracheides with multiseriate bordered pits and muriform medullary rays .
Drawn by Mr. G. T. Gwilliam .
x about 80 .
Scott Coll. 2818 .
xylem .
The secondary wood is cut approximately in the radial direction , and several medullary rays are shown ; they are muriform , with very low cells ; the pits adjacent to the ray-cells are elongated radially ( text-fig .
A ) .
The wood is in all respects similar to that of M. anglica .
Only one leaf-trace bundle is shown in connection with the stelar system , and in an undivided condition ( fig. 3 , l.t. ) .
It measures about 650 x 570 fx .
There is no obvious secondary wood , and the smallest elements appear to be directed outwards , but the preservation is imperfect .
E 2 Dr. D. H. Scott .
Except for the possible absence of secondary wood from the undivided leaf-trace\#151 ; a doubtful point on which no stress can be laid\#151 ; there is no difference between the stelar system of and that of M. anglica .
The Cortex and Leaf-bases .
In M. pusilla , as in M. anglica , no sharp limit can be drawn between cortex and leaf-base except at a level where the latter is already marked off by an internal barrier of sclerotic strands .
The appearance of such a barrier is , of course , a preparation for the departure of the leaf-base from the stem .
In the transverse sections the best preserved leaf-base is only partly delimited in this way ; a sclerotic band runs inwards from each side , but does not extend right across .
Of the two imperfect leaf-bases , one appears to be completely marked off by an internal sclerotic band , while the other is not yet delimited at all ( Plate 13 , figs. 1 and 2 ) A convenient boundary between cortex and stelar system is provided by the periderm ( fig. 3 ) .
The cortex , which contains numerous gum-canals , is not very well preserved , but it can be seen that the vascular bundles in this region are , on the whole , larger and rounder in section than those which have definitively entered the leaf-base .
At one place a group of four or five bundles is shown , which has , to all appearance , arisen from the division of a single primary leaf-trace ( text-fig .
B ) .
This group lies in the cortex , which is here well defined by the sclerotic band on the exterior and the periderm within .
Similar groups of bundles formed by division are well known in the cortex of M. anglica ( Scott , '99 , Plate 6 , Phot .
9 ; Plate 11 , fig. 12 ) .
In both species later stages in the division of the bundles are found in the leaf-base itself .
The well-preserved leaf-base is best shown in the section represented in Plate 13 , fig. 2 , and is here sufficiently perfect for the bundles to be counted with approximate accuracy .
There are 15 peripheral bundles on the free side ) , nine on the side attached to the stem , and eight , of which two are double , in an intermediate position .
Thus the interior of the leaf-base is poor in bundles , a condition which also exists in that of M. anglica at a corresponding level ( Scott , '99 , p. 100 ) .
The bundles near the periphery have assumed their definitive petiolar character , while the inner bundles more resemble those of the cortex , and are still undergoing division .
Some of the former are very well preserved ( Plate 13 , fig. 4 ) , with the phloem practically perfect ; the usual exarch , collateral structure is obvious .
The sectional form of these bundles is often slender , i.e. elongated radially , as also occurs sometimes in , On Medullosa pusilla .
Thick-walled elements enclose the xylem of the bundle in an interrupted , hippocrepiform sheath , but do not extend round the phloem .
The parenchyma contains some gum-canals and presents no peculiarities .
The only differences between the leaf-base of M. pusilla and that of M. anglica are in the hypoderma .
This zone is rather narrow in M. pusilla , its usual thickness being about 400 p ; in M. anglica it ranges from 2 to Text-fig .
B.\#151 ; Group of vascular bundles from the cortex , probably resulting from the division of a single leaf-trace ; pd .
periderm , marking inner limit of cortex ; sc .
, internal sclerotic band , marking inner limit of leaf-base .
Drawn by Mr. G. T. Gwilliam , x about 60 .
Scott Coll. 2818 .
3 mm. , i.e. it is about six times as thick , on the average , while the general dimensions are only about four times as great .
Further , in M. pusilla the hypoderma is much simpler ; as a rule , the sclerotic strands are in a single rank , and they never stand more than two deep ( Plate 13 , fig. 4 ) .
In the leaf-base of M. anglica the strands are three to four deep ( Scott , 99 , Plate 5 , Phot .
3 ; Plate 12 , fig. 14 ) .
In M. pusilla the principal strands are about twice as deep as they are wide , and slightly wedge-shaped , widening Dr. D. H. Scott .
outwards .
In M. anglica , where they are so much more numerous , they are quite irregular in form .
The distinction is not absolute , for in parts of the rachis attributed to M. anglica one may find much the same arrangement as in M. Comparing leaf-base with leaf-base , however , there appears to be a real difference between the two plants .
The hypoderma of M. pusilla is of the type of Renault 's Myelopteris Landriotii , var .
\#171 ; ( Renault , '75 , Plate 5 , fig. 41 ) , while that of M. anglica is more like his var .
cit. , Plate 4 , fig. 29 ) .
Of course , the agreement is far from exact , for Renault 's petioles no doubt belonged to quite different species of Medullosa from ours .
In the leaf-base of M. pusilla there are very few gum-canals visible in the hypoderma , and they are not very numerous altogether ( fig. 4 ) .
In anglica they are very common in the hypoderma , and fairly so elsewhere .
This distinction , however , is of very doubtful value , for in a section of a detached petiole or leaf-base probably referable to , gum-canals are numerous in the parenchyma outside the sclerotic strands , most of the strands having canals corresponding to them .
This tissue is hardly preserved at all in the type-specimen , so the small number of hypodermal canals observed may be deceptive .
Their distribution appears to have been a little different from that in M. anglica , but in that species also the external parenchyma is seldom well preserved , so comparison is difficult .
Summary and Conclusions .
If we draw up a diagnosis of M.pusilla on.the lines of that given for M. anglica ( Scott , '99 , p. Ill ) , we find few distinctions between them , apart from size .
Medullosa pusilla.\#151 ; ( Scott , * Studies in Fossil Botany , ' secoud edition , p. 441 , 1909 .
) Stem clothed by the relatively large decurrent leaf-bases .
Vascular system of stem consisting of three uniform steles .
Star-rings absent .
Interior of each steal wholly occupied by primary wood .
Secondary wood of moderate thickness , most developed on the inner sides of the steles .
Tracheides ( apart from the protoxylem ) with multiseriate bordered pits .
Leaf-traces probably concentric on leaving the steles , but with little or no secondary wood , branching and becoming collateral as they pass into the leaf-bases .
Leaf-bases , with a narrow hypoderma , consisting of a single , or locally double series of strands , and resembling that of Myelopteris Landriotii , var .
a. Renault .
Gum-canals numerous in the cortex , scattered in the leaf-bases .
Stem small , about 2 cm .
in diameter , including the leaf-bases .
On Medullosa pusilla .
227 ' Locality : Lark Hill Pit , Colne , Lancs .
Horizon : Soap-stone , overlying Halifax Hard Bed , Lower Coal Measures .
Found by Mr. P. Whalley , 1906 .
I have italicised the characters in which this form differs from M. anglica .
The distinctions are of little importance , with the exception of the small size of the plant and the simpler structure of the hypoderma , points which appear to be of some diagnostic value .
The question arises whether it is worth while to separate the species from M. anglica on these somewhat slender grounds .
The difference in size is considerable , and not due merely to age , for secondary growth is already fairly advanced , while the whole primary structure is on a small scale .
The specimen might , however , be from the basal part of the stem , where it had not reached its full dimensions , or might belong merely to a dwarfed plant .
At the same time , it is perhaps equally probable that our specimen represents a distinct species .
There is strong reason to believe that the foliage of M. anglica was of the Alethopteris type ( Scott , '99 , p. 102 ) , and it is probable that the species may have been identical with A. so abundant in the Lower Coal Measures .
We have no evidence as to the foliage of M. pusilla , but there is a certain presumption that it was also that of an Alethopteris , both from analogy with M. anglica and from the older observations of Renault .
That author , after a careful comparison , came , as is well known , to the conclusion that it was extremely probable that the petioles of his Myelopteris ( .Myeloxylon ) Landriotii bore the fronds of certain species of Alethopteris ( Renault , '83 , p. 165 ) .
In his * Course de Botanique Fossile ' he reproduces the figure of M. Landriotii , var .
\#171 ; , under the title " Section Transversale d'un Petiole d ' " ( '83 , Plate 28 , fig. 1 ) .
This is the section which most closely resembles the leaf-base of M. pusilla .
If M. pusilla was the stem of an Alethopteris other than A. lonchitica , it may conceivably have belonged to the closely allied but somewhat smaller plant , A. decurrens , the only other species which appears to be frequent in the British Lower Coal Measures.* This is a mere conjecture , but , at any rate , it is reasonable to suppose that more than one Medullosa existed in our Lower Coal Measure flora , and , as our specimen is quite peculiar in its small dimensions , and has other slight distinctive characters , we may provisionally treat it as representing a new species .
My friend , Dr. Lotsy , has proposed to divide the genus Medullosa into two new genera , Neuropteromedullosa and Pecopteromedullosa , the former having a complex stelar system together with Neuropteris foliage , while the latter is characterised by a relative simple stelar system ( as in M. ) and the * Kidston , '93 , pp. 225 , 245 ; Frank , '12 , p. 42 .
On Medullosa pusilla .
foliage of Alethopteris ( Pecopteridese ) ( Lotsy , *09 , p. 725 .
) If we adopted this division , the name of our fossil would , of course , become medullosa pusilla .
The facts at present known are not , however , favourable to a division of the genus Medullosa on these lines .
M. Leuckarti , one of the complex Permian species , bore , according to the observations of Weber and Sterzel ( '96 , p. 48 [ 89 ] ) , leaf-bases belonging to Myeloxylon Landriotii ( Ren .
) , and its foliage was therefore presumably of the Alethopteris type .
Uncertain as this conclusion may be , we clearly have no grounds for assuming that a highly differentiated stelar system was necessarily associated with Neuropteris foliage .
In the present state of our knowledge , it would only be possible to subdivide the genus Medullosa on purely anatomical characters , and at the present moment even this seems to me to be premature .
REFERENCES .
Frank , '12 .
F. Frank , " Beitrage sir Kenntnis der Palaeozoischen Arten von Alethopteris und Cattipteridium " ' Abbildungen und Beschreibungen fossiler Pflanzen-reste , von H. Potonie , ' 1912 , Lief .
VIII\#151 ; X. Kidston , '93 .
R. Kidston , " On the Various Divisions of British Carboniferous Rocks as Determined by their Fossil Flora , " 'Roy .
Phys. Soc. Edin .
Proc. , ' 1893-94 , vol. 12 .
Lotsy , '09 .
J. P. Lotsy , 'Vortrage tiber Botanische Stammes-geschichte , ' Jena , 1909 , vol. 2 .
Renault , '75 .
B. Renault , " Recherches sir les Veg^taux silicifies d'Autun .
II.\#151 ; Etude du genre Myelopteris , " ' Mem. pres , par Divers Savants a l'Acad .
des Sciences , ' 1875 , vol. 22 , No. 10 .
Renault , '83 .
B. Renault , ' Course de Botanique Fossile , ' Paris , 1883 , 3me Annee , Fougeres .
Scott , '99 .
D. H. Scott , " On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Rocks .
III.\#151 ; On Medullosa , " ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1899 , B , Vol. 170 .
Scott , '09 .
D. H. Scott , ' Studies in Fossil Botany , ' London , 1908-9 , 2nd Edition .
Weber and Sterzel , '96 .
O. Weber and J. T. Sterzel , " Beitrage sir Kenntnis der Medullosese , " ' XIII Bericht der Naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft zu Chemnitz , ' 1893-96 .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE .
Figures are from microphotographs by Mr. W. Tams .
General transverse section of the stem and leaf-bases , x 3 .
Scott Coll. 2817 .
The other transverse section ( reversed , as compared with fig. 1 ) .
One of the three steles is destroyed and another displaced , so as to appear in nearly longitudinal section .
One leaf-base is perfect , x 3 .
Scott Coll. 2818 .
The stelar system from fig. 1 ; pd .
, periderm ; .
, leaf-trace .
x ll\#163 ; .
Scott Coll. 2817 .
Part of the leaf-base , showing the hypoderma and a bundle with xylem and phloem , x 45 .
Scott Coll. 2817 .
Fig. 1.-Fig .
2.\#151 ; Fig. 3.-Fig .
4.\#151 ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. Byo 87 , PL .
13 .

