Condensation Nuclei produced in Gases Rays , \amp ; c. 127 " Oil the Condensation Nuclei produced in Gases by the Action of Rontgen Rays , Uranium Rays , Ultra-violet Light , and other Agents .
" By C. T. R. Wilson , M.A. , Clerk-Maxwell Student in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received October 29 , \#151 ; Read November 24 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments here described consist mainly in determinations of the least degree of supersaturation necessary to cause water vapour to condense on nuclei from various sources .
As in former experiments* the supersaturation is brought about by very sudden expansion of air or other gas originally saturated with water vapour , the expansion required to produce a fog or shower of drops being measured .
The expansion is expressed in terms of v2/ vlt the ratio of the final to the initial volume .
The following classes of nuclei have been studied in this way:\#151 ; 1 .
Nuclei produced by Rontgen rays .
2 .
" " " uranium rays .
3 .
" , , , , ultra-violet light .
L j , , , " sunlight .
5 .
" " , , metals in contact with the gas .
6- " " " the action of ultra-violet light on a negatively electrified zinc plate .
L " " " the discharge of electricity from a pointed platinum wire .
In addition the behaviour of the nuclei in an electric field has been studied , with the object of distinguishing between " ions " and nuclei which carry no charge of electricity .
1 .
The action of strong X-rays on the gas differs from that of weak raysf merely in the number of nuclei produced , the supersaturation required to cause water to condense on the nuclei remaining unaltered .
The value of vjv1 corresponding to this degree of supersaturation ( approximately fourfold ) is equal to T25 .
2 .
Uranium compounds , whether inside the expansion apparatus in immediate contact with the gas or contained in a glass bulb outside the apparatus produce nuclei requiring the same degree of supersaturation as those produced by X-rays .
* 'Pliil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 189 ( 1897 ) , p. 265 ; ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 9 ( 1897 ) , p. 333 .
t 'Phil .
Trans./ loc. cit. J ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc./ loc. cit. 128 Mr. C. T. E. Wilson .
Nuclei ( Expansion experiments probably furnish one of the most delicate methods of detecting these rays .
) 3 .
Ultra-violet light acting on moist air or oxygen produces nuclei which , when the radiation is weak , require quite as great a degree of supersaturation to cause water to condense on them as those produced by X-rays .
With stronger radiation , however , the nuclei appear to grow , the expansion required to produce a cloud now depending on the strength of the radiation and on the time for which the gas has been exposed to the rays before expansion .
With very strong ultra-violet light the growth of the nuclei , even in unsaturated air , continues till they become visible ( as stated in a preliminary note).* The phenomena are then like those observed by Tyndall with certain vapours exposed to ordinary light .
That nuclei are produced when ultraviolet light enters an expansion apparatus through a quartz window was discovered by Lenard and Wolff , but they believed them to arise from disintegration of the quartz .
That these nuclei arise not at the quartz , but throughout the volume of the air exposed to the rays , is capable of experimental proof in a variety of ways .
In hydrogen even strong ultra-violet light produces comparatively few nuclei , these requiring also as great a degree of supersaturation as the nuclei produced by X-rays in order that water may condense on them .
4 .
Sunlight produces in air nuclei which require large expansions \#166 ; ( vjv1 about U25 ) in order that water may condense on them .
5 .
Certain metals in moist air produce nuclei , always requiring great supersaturation in order that condensation may take place on them .
The supersaturation required is generally as great or greater than that required in the case of X-ray nuclei .
In the presence of amalgamated zinc dense fogs are obtained with expansions , which in the absence of the metal only result in the formation of a very few drops .
Clean surfaces of zinc or lead have a similar but much slighter effect ; with copper or tin it is inappreciable .
These phenomena are obviously closely connected with the effects which these metals exert on a photographic plate , studied by Russell and others .
6 .
Ultra-violet light acting on a negatively electrified zinc plate produces condensation nuclei , as was proved by the steam jet experiments of Lenard and Wolff .
The nuclei , however , are not , as these observers supposed , produced by disintegration of the metal , for expansion experiments show that they are identical with the nuclei produced by X-rays with respect to the degree of supersaturation required to cause condensation to take place on them , and therefore entirely unlike dust particles .
In " hydrogen the maximum number of drops in the fogs which result on expansion is obtained with comparatively weak fields ; no nuclei are produced when the zinc is positively electrified .
7 .
The discharge from a pointed platinum wire in moist air or hydro* \lt ; Camb .
Pbil .
Soc. Proe .
, ' rol .
9 , p. 392 , 1898 .
produced in Gases by dec. 129 gen produces nuclei which also require approximately the same expansion , vJi\ = 125 , in order that condensation may take place on them .
If the expansion be made while the discharge is taking place no fog is obtained with smaller expansions .
The results are not so simple if the expansion be made after the discharge has ceased , apparently on .account of some secondary effect of the discharge causing the nuclei to grow .
No nuclei were produced unless a glow could be observed at the point of the wire .
Effect of an Electric Field.\#151 ; When air exposed to X-rays is enclosed by two parallel plates , between which a sufficient difference of potential is maintained , the fogs obtained on expansion are very much less dense than in the absence of the electric Jfield , and if the rays be turned off before expansion all the nuclei are found to have been removed , whereas without any electric field a fog is obtained even if the expansion be not made till some seconds after the rays have been cut off* .
This behaviour of the nuclei proves them to be charged particles or " ions .
" The nuclei produced by uranium rays behave in a similar manner ; those produced by the action of ultra-violet light on moist air , or by the presence of metals , are entirely unaffected by an electric field .
They are therefore not ions but uncharged nuclei .
( Since the nuclei produced by the action of metals on air or by weak ultra-violet light require just as great a degree of supersaturation as those produced by X-rays to cause water to condense on them , the difference in the behaviour of the two classes of nuclei can scarcely be due to a difference in size .
) The nuclei which escape from a negatively electrified plate under the influence of ultra-violet light are of course charged .
It follows from the experimental results described in this paper that the passage of electricity through gases is effected by charged particles which have an identical effect as condensation nuclei , whether the conduction is the result of exposure of the gas to X-rays or uranium rays , or of the action of ultra-violet light on a negatively charged zinc plate , or consists in the escape of electricity from a pointed platinum wire .
In all cases the degree of supersaturation required to make condensation take place on these particles is approximately fourfold.* The nuclei which are produced and grow ( in air or oxygen ) under the action of ultra-violet light are uncharged , in their initial stages at least ; they are therefore not electrified water drops .
It is possible that they are water drops containing in solution some substance , perhaps H202 , produced within them by the action of the ultra-violet light in quantities sufficient to counterbalance the effect of the curvature of the surface upon the vapour pressure necessary for equilibrium .
* 'Phil .
Trans./ loc. cit.

