An Account of an Experiment of the Injection of Mercury into the Blood , and its ill Effects on the Lungs ; as it was communicated to the Royal Society by their late worthy Member A. Moulin , M. D. I Have promised last Meeting to give my Reasons this day why I conceive Mercury to be an Enemy to the Lungs : I shall only give an account of an Experiment I made on a Dog at Mr. Boyle 's last Autumn , which I take to make out what I then promised .
I injected into the jugular Vein about an ounce and half of crude Mercury , and observed the Dog soon after to have a dry short Cough , which by pretty intervals seized him .
I sewed up the Wound , and sent away the Dog to be looked after , observing no other effect of the Quick-silver at that time .
But about two days after I saw him , and found him troubled with a great difficulty of breathing , making a noise like that of a broken-winded Horse ; there was no Tumor about the root of his Tongue , neither was there any Swelling found in the Maxillary or Parotide Glandules , though I diligently sought for it : neither was he observed to drivle , tho ' I ordered him warm Broth in expectation of a Salivation .
The fourth day after the injection of the Mercury he died , being for the two days before so troubled with an Orthopnaea , that he could sleep only when he leaned his Head against something .
I opened him , and found about him a pint of bloody Serum evtravasated in the Thorax .
I found also the outside of the Lungs in most places blistered , for what I at first took to be some preternatural dilatations of the Vesiculae of the Bronchiae , were only Blisters or a separation of the common Integuments of the Lungs from their substance .
Some of these were larger than a Rouncival-Pea , others were smaller , but most of them contained mercurial globules , to be seen even without opening in several of them , thro ' the outward Skin ; opening discovered it in most of those that I had the curiosity to examine .
Several of these I found broken , and upon a little pressure observed the Mercury to run out , and with it a little Sanies ; but upon a pretty strong pressure , I observed that a great quantity of that Sanies issued out .
When I opened the right Ventricle of the Heart , I found some Particles of the Quick-Silver in the very midst of coagulated Blood lodged there , and in that also contained in the Arteria Pulmonalis .
I observed moreover blood coagulated after a very different manner ( which I want words to express ) from what I have seen at any other time , notwithstanding the various Methods I had used to coagulate it , and this in the Interstices between the Columnae of the aforesaid Ventricle ; and in this a greater quantity of Quick-silver than any where else in the Dog .
This Cogulum was in the Vertex of the Ventricle , adhering pretty closely to the Columnae and Parietes .
Opening the left Ventricle , I found a very tenacious Blood coagulated and sticking firmly to the great Valve , including the Tendons of it , and a little resembling a Polypus .
In this Ventricle I searched diligently for Mercury , but found none ; whence it may appear , that the Mercury passed no farther than the extremities of the Arteria pulmonalis : This occasioned the aforesaid Blisters , and forced its way through the common Coat of the Lungs , partly by its weight , and partly by the propulsion of fresh Blood to the same extremities which by the Mercury were stopped in its motion , and consequently forced its passage through that which most readily gave way , namely , the common Coat of the Lungs .
I opened the aspera Arteria down to the very Bronchiae , but could find no Mercury in it , though I searched diligently for it .
Each of the subdivisions as well as divisions of the Bronchiae was filled with a Sanies , which when I washed away , I found Globules of Mercury in many places under the Bronchiae , and upon Examination they proved to be in the Arteria pulmonalis .
I have pressed these Globules backwards and forwards , and made some of them get out at the holes made in the Vesiculae above described .
I took some pains to find where the Sanies was received into the Bronchiae , but could not satisfy my self .
From hence may appear the danger of using Mercury in humane Bodies , so as that it may get into the Mass of Blood , especially into the Lungs ; they wanting that brisk strong motion which the Muscles have in other parts , which are able to force it along with the Blood , in order to the raising a Salivation .
Their lax spongy Texture makes them extremely unfit for clearing themselves of so troublesome a Guest as Mercury is .
That it has this Effect on humane Lungs , is plain from what we daily see in persons that have been often-flux 'd , who are after observed to dye of Consumptions that will not give way to Medicine .

