314 Vice-Admiral E. Ommanney [ Mar. H has found special advantages from the use of osmic acid , with or without subsequent staining in hsematoxylin .
The stages in this formation an as follows:\#151 ; ( ?
) The spindle cells enlarge and contain several nuclei which can be identified , whilst within the cell , as being of a similar nature to r6d blood-corpuscles .
A current of blood-plasma from the nearest vessels passes , at the same time , into the interfibrillary space in which the spindle cells lie , ( ?
) The nuclei escape from the spindle cells into this space , where they are indistinguishable in appearance from the ordinary red blood-corpuscles .
( c ) By a process of diapedesis the formed elements of the nearest blood-vessels pass into this space and the circulation is established .
Various appearances lead the author to suppose that the fibrine of the plasma solidifies on the outer surface of the current and forms the substratum of the new vessel , and on this substratum the white blood-corpuscles fix themselves and spread out as an epithelium .
From interfibrillary spaces in .
the inflamed cornea , in which formation of blood-vessels was actively taking place , the author has isolated white corpuscles in various transition stages towards the appearance and shape of epithelium ; and , from rapidly enlarging vessels , cells which , from their form , he believes to be transitionary to that of smooth muscular fibre .
As the new capillary forms , the enlarged spindle cells decrease to their ordinary size .
In preparations of blood-serum of the frog sealed up , after a few days , the haemoglobin may be observed to assume special forms inside the corpuscle , or to disappear from it , and so produce changes in the appearance of the corpuscle identical with those described by Arnold as taking place in the tongue of the living animal after diapedesis .
The above observations were made chiefly on the cornea of the frog and rabbit ; and the inflammation was mostly produced by solid nitrate of silver , the passing of a thread , and the application of methylated alcohol .
In the winter frog ( liana esculenta ) , cauterized in the centre of the cornea , the first entry of white corpuscles attributable to inflammation was observed , after 48 hours , in the wider spaces near the limbus .
After 4 days , they could be observed in considerable numbers , and 2-6 could be seen in one so-called space ( lacuna ) .
II .
" Report on Observations of the Transit of Venus made at Luxor , Upper Egypt , 9th December , 1874 .
" " By Vice-Admiral E. Ommanney , C.B. , F.R.S. Received February 11/ 1875 .
Owing to the kindness of Professor Auwers , of Berlin , who placed his heliometer at my service , I was enabled to make the following notes of time and phenomena during the time of egress# I i'5.1 on the Transit of Venus .
'he time was given by a chronometer marked " Wiren 34 , " which was leu to me by the celebrated astronomer , William Dollen , of Pulkowa .
Lt 18h 40m M. T. the sun rose clear and brilliant over the eastern range si he Arabian hills on the valley of the Nile under very favourable con-ions of sky and atmosphere , more so on this occasion than on any oi3r morning during our stay of 20 days at Luxor .
The first glance staved us the image of the planet Venus on the sun 's disk in the pre-d ; ed place , making progress in her path across the sun to the point Digress .
it the first observation the borders of the planet appeared jagged and illefined , but as the altitude increased she presented a dark disk , clearly dined on the sun .
When the time of internal contact approached , the e ; e of the planet and the limb of the sun were both very distinct , and iourable for making accurate observations .
Vhen the moment of internal contact drew near , I gave my utmost aantion for observing the appearance of the black drop ; but I could not dect it , though I could perceive with great nicety the instant of con-11 .
The margin of the sun 's limb and that of Venus were most clearly dined to my vision .
Immediately after internal contact a bright illumination manifested ielf on the emerged part of Venus ; this light continued bordering on the up for about three fourths of the time between internal contact and i vernal contact at egress .
The following are the times shown by chronometer for contacts and pnomena:\#151 ; h m s Time at internal contact ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
20 01 02*5 Cusp of Venus illuminated ... ... ... * ... ... . .
20 2 00 5 Venus emerged , cusp illuminated. .
... ... ... ..20 7 25 Light on right side of cusp became brighter . .
20 9 00 Light on left side became fainter .
... ... .
20 15 00 Light at time of Venus 's | emergence ... ... . .
20 15 30 Illumination diminishing ... ... ... ... ... ... .
20 17 00 Illumination disappeared ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
20 20 00 f Venus emerged ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
20 24 00 Time of external contact at egress ... ... ... 20 29 25 I must remark that I found it a matter of considerable difficulty to \gt ; te the precise instant of the last or external contact at egress , as the in-ntation became so extremely slight towards the planet making final egress .
The error of the chronometer was estimated to be very nearly 15m 02s* 0 by preliminary calculation ; hence the times of contact by y observations , corrected for mean time at Luxor , will stand thus :\#151 ; h m s Internal contact at egress ... ... ... .
20 16 04*5 External contact at egress ... ... ... ... 20 44 27*0 2 b 2 316 Capt. W. J. Heaviside on Approximate [ Mar. H The temperature in the shade at sunrise was 53 ' F. , and after transi 65 ' F. The heliometer used by me on this occasion was constructed by Fraun hofer .
One of the halves of the object-glass was used , the line of separa tion being put normal to the sun 's limb at the point of contact , in orde to produce the least distortion of image in the direction of the commoi diameter of the two objects .
The focal length of the instrument is nearly 45 inches ( English ) , the aperture 3 inches , and the power usee was 97 .
Our observatory was situated about half a mile to the southward o : Luxor , in lat. 25 ' 41 ' 40 " N. , as determined by Wm. Dollen and Pro fessor Auwers , and in longitude 2h 10m 22s E. , as fixed by Mahmoud Bej in his late survey of the valley of the Nile .
III .
" Preliminary Abstract of Approximate Mean Results with the Invariable Pendulums Nos. 4 and 1821 , in continuation of the Abstract published in vol. xix .
of the Proceedings .
" Bj Captain W. J. Heaviside , R.E. Communicated by Professoi Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received February 15 , 1875 .
Extract from a Letter from Captain Heaviside to Professor StoJces .
Dehra , N. W. P. , 21st January , 1875 .
My deab Sib , \#151 ; An abstract of approximate results by the invariable pendulums was printed under Captain Basevi 's superintendence in 1870 , I now enclose an abstract in continuation , bringing the work down tc Kew .
The formulae and factors employed by Basevi have been used ir the reductions , so that the results in the two abstracts might be directlj comparable .
The observations at Meean Mere and at More were taken by Basevi. .
and the reduction to mean sea-level for More has been computed in accordance with a memorandum he left , in which he assumed the mountain masses on which More stands to compose a cylinder , having a height of 2-92 miles and a radius of 200 miles .
You will see that the results at Kew , from my observations in 1873 , differ by 0*38 vibration from those obtained by Mr. Loewy in 1866 .
My observations were taken in August , at a mean temperature of 65 ; his in January , at a temperature of 54 ' .
As the temperature-factor ( 0'48 vibration for 1 ' Fahr. ) here employed is larger than that which will eventually be adopted , the difference between the two results will be still further reduced , and the agreement will be much closer than I expected to obtain , when taking into consideration the varied travels these pendulums went through in the interval .
* * *

