X. A Letter from John Huxham M. D. F. R. S. to C. Mortimer Secr. R. S. concerning a Child born with an extraordinary Tumour near the Anus , containing some Rudiments of an Embryo in it .
Dear Sir , THE following Case was lately communicated to me by Mr. Alexander Wills , an experienced and ingenious Surgeon and Man-Midwife , of Kingsbridge .
It seems to have something particular and remarkable .
If you think so ( on Perusal ) you may be so good as to lay it before the Royal Society .
I am , Read May 19 .
1748 .
SIR , Your much obliged , and most obedient humble Servant , J. Huxham .
Plimouth , Dec. 12 .
1746 .
John Perrine 's Wife , of Charleton Parish , in this County , a brisk active young Woman ( he very infirm and consumptive ) was delivered of a Daughter at full Time , July 11 , 1746 .
The Child was perfect , as to all its Limbs , Head , Body , etc. but from the Region over the Os sacrum , Glutaei Muscles , and between the Thighs , quite home to the Pudendum , was growing a very large Substance , which the Midwife and others called a Wen , in Shape very like the Ventricle of a Sheep , and seemed , as to its Colour and outward Appearance , a Continuation of the same Skin with the rest of the Body , but very full of Blood-vessels .
It hung down behind below the Heels , and was bigger than the whole Body of the Child itself .
It felt very soft , and seemed to have Matter fluctuate in it ; but in the middle of the Whole was evidently felt a hard Substance .
The Pudendum as well as Anus were in all respects natural , and both Urine and Stool were regularly discharged ; but the Anus was placed much more forward , and immediately under the Pudendum ; so that the Faeces were discharged in the same Direction with that of the Urine .
I made a Puncture in the depending Part of the Tumour , and drew off near two Quarts of a palish red Water , without any Smell .
The Orifice being left open , there was a continual Issue of the same kind of Water for several Days ; but by degrees it became more and more glutinous , and at length whitish like Pus , and very fetid .
As the Discharge was great , the Child grew weaker and weaker , and at the End of 15 Days died .
The next Day 1 opened the Tumour , and found , near the Os Coccygis , an Abscess within a Cystis , in which were four Ounces at least of white Pus prodigiously stinking ; and , on further Examination , found several cartilaginous Joints , as it were , somewhat resembling the Tail of a Sheep , continued from the Point of the Os Coccygis .
These were about two Inches long , and invelop 'd with a kind of fleshy Substance covered with a sort of Fat : These , when cut thro ' , appeared exactly like the inner Part of Lamb-Stones .
From those depended a Substance like the Head and Neck of an Embryo , as big as a large Egg , which , on opening , contained somewhat resembling Brain , and a kind of a Cerebellum in the back Part : It had a Mouth and Tongue on one Side of the Face ( if it might be so called ) but no Appearance of Eyes or Nose ; however there was an Ear pretty evident .
In the large Tumour there hung a kind of loose Membrane , which perhaps might be Part of a Secundine .

