The following papers were read , viz. : ?
" Researches on the Tides .
Tenth Series .
On the Laws of Low Water at the Port of Plymouth , and on the permanency of mean water .
" By the Rev. W. Whewell , B.D. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Tri ?
nity College , Cambridge .
In this memoir the author investigates the question , how far the mean water , that is the height of the tide midway between high and low water , is permanent during the changes which high and low water undergo .
That it is so approximately at Plymouth having been already ascertained by short series of observations , it was de ?
sirable to determine the real amount of this permanency by induction from longer series of observations .
A period of six years was chosen for that purpose ; and the method of discussing these observations was the same , with slight modifications , as in former researches .
The height of low water , cleared from the effects of lunar parallax , and very nearly so from those of lunar declination , and compared with the height of high water , similarly cleared , enabled the author to ascertain whether the mean water also was affected by the semi ?
menstrual inequality .
The results of the calculation show that the height of mean water is , within two or three inches , constant from year to year : and that , for each fortnight , it has a semi-menstrual inequality amounting to six or seven inches ; ?the height being great ?
est when the transit is at 6h .
and least when at 11 h. , ?
the immediate cause of this inequality being , that the semi-menstrual inequality of low water is greater than that of high water : this inequality , however , is probably modified by local circumstances .
These researches have also verified the theoretical deduction , that the height both of low and of high water being affected by the moon 's declination , their mean height partakes of the variations in this latter element , in successive years , consequent on the change of position of the moon 's orbit .
At Plymouth the increase in mean low water amounts to about two inches for each degree of increase in the de ?
clination .
In the high water this change is less marked .
The parallax correction of the height of low water is obtained from all years alike , by taking the residue of each observation , which remains when the semi-menstrual inequality is taken away , and arranging these residues , for each hour of transit , according to the parallax .
The declination correction is obtained in a manner analo ?
gous to the parallax correction , from each year 's observations , with some correction for the variation in the mean declination of the moon in each year .

