]\gt ; [ 295 ] VII .
Experiments , by the Method of LORENTZ , for the fnrther of the Absolute of the British Association of , with Appcndix on the Determination of the pitch of a By Lord RAYLEIGH , F.R.S. , Cavendish Professor of Experimental Physics University of bridge , Mrs. H. SIDGWICK .
Received Docember 8 , 1882 , \mdash ; Read , 1883 .
S1 .
IN this method , which was employed by LORENTZ in a circular disc of metal is maintained in rotation at a uniform and known rate about an axis passing through its centre , and is placed in the magnetic field due to a battery current which circulates through a coaxal coil of many turns .
The revolving disc is touched at its centre and circumference by two wires .
If the circuit were simply closed through a galvanometer , the instrument would indicate the current due to the electromotive force of induction acting against the resistance of the circuit .
The electromotive force corresponding to each revolution is the same as would be generated in a single turn of wire coincident with the circumference of the disc by the formation or cessation of the battery current .
If this be called , and be the coefficient of induction between the coil and the circumference , the number of revolutions per second , the electromotive force is .
In the actual arrangement , however , the circuit is not simply closed , but its terminals are connected with the extremities of a resistance , traversed by the battery current , and the variable quantities are so adjusted that the electromotive force exactly balances that of induction .
When the nometer indicates no current , the following relation , independent , it will be observed , of the magnitude of the battery current , must be satisfied\mdash ; ; and from this , being known from the data of construction , the absolute ) of the conductor is determined .
One of the principal difficulties to be overcome arises from the smallness of the resistance , necessary for a balance , even when and are both increased as far as possible .
LORnNTZ employed three resistances , ranging from to 002 of a mercury unit , and he evaded the necessity of comparing these small resistances with ordinary standards by constructing them of actual columns of mercury .
His result was accordingly obtained directly in terms of mercury , and was to the effect that *POGG .
Ann. , cxlix .
, p. 251 .
1 mercury unit C.G.S. differing nearly 1 per cent. from the value ( 941 ) obtained by ourselves .
S2 .
Under the conviction that this method offers in some respects important advantages , and influenced also by the fact that the arrangements for producing and measuring the uniform rotation necessary were ready to our hands , we determined to give it a trial , in the hope of obtaining confirmation of the results already arrived at by ourselves and by GLAZEBROOK with other methods .
At first the intention was to follow LORENTZ in using for the resistance a glass tube full of mercury , with two points of which contact would be made by platinum wires passing through the glass .
It appeared , however , that there would be difficulty in making the measurements with the degree of accuracy aimed at .
If the wires were sealed into the glass , the section would probably be rendered irregular .
An attempt was made to avoid this difficulty by using a tube from which the ends had been cut with the aid of heat .
After small nicks had been filed sufficiently deep to receive the platinum wires , the ends were replaced in their original positions and secured with shellac .
In this way a satisfactory uniformity of section near the points of derivation could be attained , but the measurement of the distance between these ints , which is required to be known with full accuracy , was rendered difficult by the presence of the cement .
It is possible that these difficulties might have been overcome , but at this point a method of shunting occurred to us , ] lowing the use of mercury to be dispensed with .
Merely for the purpose of connecting the mercury unit with the B. A. unit or other standard of resistance , it would not be desirable to use tubes of such large bore .
This problem may more conveniently be taken by itself , has already been treated by us in a former communication to the Society .
S3 .
In the shunt method the greater part of the main current passes on one side through a relatively small resistance ( see fig. 1 ) , and the difference of potentiaJs at the points of derivation , is due to the passage of a small fraction only of the total current , the resistance ) being great compared with .
If at the same time be small relatively to , the difference of potentials is doubly attenuated .
Its value for a given main current is found at once from the consideration that the current divides itself between the two branches in the inverse ratio of the resistances .
The current through is thus , and the difference of poteIJtiaIs at the points * If the distance between the points of derivation were 1 metre , mercury unit would require a section equal to 500 square millims. Phil. Trans. , 1883 , p. 173 .
was found advisab]e to renew the amalgamation of the edge at the commencement of each day 's work .
The excess of mercury , if any , attaches itself to the brush , and does not appear to render the diameter of the disc uncertain .
The inner contact was made in a similar manner by a brush pressing against the shaft itself at a place a little below that at which the disc was attached .
The coefficient of induction to be employed in the calculation is the difference between the coefficients for the coil and the outer and inner circles of contact respectively , but the latter is quite subordinate .
S 6 .
The disc was driven by the same water.-engine that was employed for the revolving coil of former determinations , connexion being made by a long cord passing round a wooden pulley attached to the lower part of the shaft .
To the upper face of the disc was cemented a circle of paper on which were marked a series of circles of alternately black and white teeth .
One observer looking through the prongs of an electro-magnetically maintained fork regulated the speed of the disc by application of the necessary friction to the driving-cord , which passed through his fingers .
When one of the series of circles is seen to be stationary , a simple and easily expressed relation is established between the frequency of the fork and that of revolution .
At intervals the number of beats per minute is counted between the notes of a standard fork , and ( the octave of ) the electric fork .
There is no difficulty in thus determining the speed of rotation to within one part in 10,000 .
With respect to the absolute pitch of the standard fork itself , see the Appendix to this Memoir .
S7 .
When the disc is caused to rotate , and the galvanometer circuit is closed , deflexion is observed , although the battery which generates the main current is not in actiolJ .
This deflexion is due to two causes\mdash ; thermo-electric force at the sliding tact , and induction dependent upon the vertical component of the earth 's magnetism .
Although not a direct source of error , this deflexion is better avoided , both for convenience in reading the galvanometer and because it implies the actual passage of a not insensible current through the sliding contacts and thns brings into consideration the resistance of these contacts .
The compensation was effected by the introduction of an opposing electromotive force ; for which purpose two terminals of the galvanometer circuit , fig. 2 , instead of being connected directly , were attached by binding screws to two points on a stout copper forming part of a circuit which * Proc. Roy .
Soc. , May 5 , 1881 , p. 112 ; Phil. Trans. , Part II .
, 1882 .
VALUE OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION UNIT OF RESISTANCE .
included a sawdust DANIELL ( L ) and a resistance coil of 100 ohms ( M ) .
By ifting one of the binding , the galvanometer reading , in the absence of the main battery current , and after attainment of the proper speed , was made to be nearly the same as when the neter contact was broken .
S8 .
The general plan of the connexions and the modus operandi will now be intelligible from fig. 2 .
The poles of the battery , consisting of 20 DANIELL cells , were connected with a mercury reversing key , the two positions of which were distinguished by the letters and ( east and west ) .
From thence the current passed through the induction coils and the equivalent resistance , of which the details are reserved for the moment .
The reflecting galvanometer , , is placed at a considerable distance in order to avoid the direct influence of the coils , and is connected with the inner sliding contact , F. Its resistance is about ohm ; and by the aid of the compensating magnet the vibrations of the needle were made slow enough to be readily observed .
The terminals of the galvanometer branch , which includes also a commutator , I , are connected to the extremities of the resistance , R. If , while the disc is maintained in uniform rotation , the reading of the galvanometer is the same whichever way the battery key may stand ( correction being made , if necessary , for a direct effect upon the needle ) , it is a proof the contemplated balance is actually attained .
In this way all disturbance from the earth 's magnetism , and from thermo-electric forces whether situated at the sliding contacts , or within the resistance coils of which is composed , or at any other part of the galvanometer circuit , is eliminated from the result .
The adjustment is effected by varying a comparatively large resistance , taken from a box , and placed in multiple arc with one of the components of R. multiple arc whose termina]s rest in these cups .
The galvanometer terminals are led into two other cups and C. The ends of these are beaten flat and the legs of the rest upon them .
The connexion between and was through a stout copper l.od , which may be regarded as part of .
For the first series the connexion between A and was through a single coil of 10 units ' resistance , replaced in subsequent series by other coils giving altogether 16 and 20 units ' resistance respectively .
To make the necessary adjustment and variation of resistance , a box , , was placed in multiple arc with the two unit coils .
The tances taken from the box were afterwards carefully determined , but they enter into the final results in quite a subordinate manner .
S13 .
trials now led to the satisfactory conclusion that the defect was remedied , for the means obtained on different days agreed well together , even although the resistance coils were taken down and remounted in the interval .
As we had now every reason to suppose that our experiments would have a successful issue , we proceeded to make the final adjustments preparatory to a complete series of observations .
In the first and second series the two coils were near one another , separated only by three slips of glass , and held firmly together by wooden clamps .
The adjustments presented no particular difficulty .
By means of an iron finger clamped to the disc and carried gradually round , it could be verified that the coils and disc were concentric and in parallel The coils were gradually wedged into their places .
' and secured when their mean planes occupied the desired symmetrical positions relatively to the disc .
It is evident that errors of maladjustment influence the result only in the second order .
S 14 .
Experience in this series having shown that the arrangement was satisfactory , and that the sensitiveness was sufficient , we to make a second series of observations without displacement of the induction coils , but at a speed of rotation lower than before in about the ratio of 16 : 10 .
This , of course , entailed a corresponding change in , which was effected by increasing the component .
An agreement between the final results of the two series would give an important conVALUE OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION UNIT OF RESISTANCE .
firmation , inasmuch as leakage of electricity from the main circuit into the galvanometer branch would exert a different influence in the two cases .
The observations were not reduced until some time afterwards , and it then appeared that the agreement was even better than it would have been reasonable to expect .
S15 .
The final number , , expressing the value of the B.A. unit in absolute measure as determined by these two se , lies of observations , is almost identical with that previously obtained by ourselves , and by GLAZEBROOK , using other methods .
With respect to the independence of these determinations , the only thing calling for notice is the fact that the same induction coils were employed both by GLAZEBROOK and in the present investigation .
In other respects there has been , we believe , scarcely any point of contact .
But it is evident that an error in the surements of mean radius of these coils must propagate itself into both results .
The point to which we now wish to direct attention , is that the error of mean radius will influence the final umber in opposite directions .
In the method employed by GLAZEBROOK , an under-estimate of the mean radius would lead to an under-estimate of the induction coefficient , whereas with us it would lead to an over-estimate of that quantity .
So far , therefore , as the error of mean radius is concerned , it would appear that the use of the same coils is far from the value of the results .
Even with respect to the number of turns , an error , if that be supposed possible , would affect the results in a different manner , for GLAZEBROOK was concerned with the product of the numbers for the two coils , while we evidently are concerned with the snrn .
S 16 .
In researches of this kind it is proper to calculate the influence upon the result of errors in the fundamental measurements .
The value of depends upon three linear quantities : the radius of the disc mean radius coils ( A ) , and the distance between their mean planes .
In the present case , however , the latter element enters in a very subordinate degree .
From S 25 it appears that It has been that these conditions compare fayourably with those of most of the other methods that have been employed .
From its nature is much more easily measured than the diameter of a coil . .
The results deduced from the several days obseryations , when corrected for slight variations of temperature of the resistance coils , \amp ; c. , exhibit a remarkable accordance .
By reference to the tables ( S 27 ) the reader will see that the maximum divergence from the mean in Series I. is only about one part in 4000 , while in Series II .
it is even less .
We were thus encouraged to carry out a modification of the method which we had had in view all along , and the results of which would be in great measure independent of those of Series I. and II .
* Phil. Mag. , Nov. , 1882 .
things very closely ; for of course we have in reality a good approximate knowledge of the value of A. In our apparatus the distance of mean planes was about 30 centims. , so that about 11- ) centims. .
From the calculations in S25 it appears that with the actual proportions ; so that the error of A enters in quite a subordinate degree .
The positive coefficient of shows that with the given coils and the given disc the separation was somewhat too great to secure the utmost independence of S19 .
The success of this arrangement depends principally upon the degree of accuracy with which can be determined .
The two rings upon which the coils are woumd were held apart by three equal distance-pieces , against which they were firmly pressed by wooden clamps .
The distance-pieces were hollow , of massive brass , and the terminal faces were carefully turned .
Central marks upon them facilitated the adjustment of the coils into the symmetrical positions .
The distance of mean planes does not however depend solely upon the distance-pieces .
Even if we could assume that mean planes are symmetrically situated relatively to the grooves in which the wire is wound , we should still have to take account of the thicknesses of the fla1lges .
All uncertainty in this matter is eliminated by following the plan adopted b.y GLAZEBR0OK of reversing the rings ( without interchange ) , and then repeating the measurements .
Whatever may be the situation of the mean planes and the thicknesses of the flanges , the mean result thus obtained corresponds to a distance equal to the length of the pieces plus half the total outside thicknesses of the rings .
These quantities can all be measured with great precision , and as easily after the coils are wound as before .
Full particulars are given in S24 .
There can hardly be a doubt but that the determination is much more accurate than ) of the mean radius of a VALUE OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION UNIT OF RESISTANCE .
coil ; and , what is also of some importance , it admits of repetition at pleasure with comparative]y little trouble .
S20 .
The sensitiveness of this arrangement was about the same as in Series II .
, and the table shows a good agreement among the results obtained on different days .
The final number from this series is 9868 , almost the same as from Series I. and II .
The small ence of effective resistances required for balance in the two positions of the induction coils , amounting to about one part per thousand , is almost exactly accounted for by the small difference of distances of mean planes in the two cases , as deduced from Professor CHRYSTAL'S measurements of the thicknesses of the flanges .
In the first position ( see S24 ) the coils are nearer together by almost exactly one part per thousand , a difference which , according to the formula given above ( S18 ) , should be reproduced almost without change in and therefore in , the greater values of and corresponding to the smaller distance .
S21 .
If we combine all the results of the present investigation , giving equal weights to the two srrangements of the induction coils , we have 1 B.A. unit C.G.S. With use of the ratio between the mercury unit and the B.A. unit found by us ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. , May , 1882 ) , this gives 1 mercury unit C. G. S. ; or , which is the same thing , the ohm is the resistance of a column of mercury at centigrade whose section is 1 square millim. , and whose length is millims. We now pass on to the details of the measurements .
DETAILS 0F MEASUREMENTS .
of disc .
S22 .
Preliminary measurements of the disc while still mounted were made on August 11 , 1882 , with callipers by Messrs. ELLIOTT .
Read by the vernier of the instrument itself the mean diameter was millims. The openin of the calipers was also determined independently by reference with the aid of microscopes to a verified scale of millimetres .
In this way millims. The circumference was also measured by a steel tape , afterwards compared with the millimetre scale .
Correction being made for the thickness of the tape , the result was millims. LORD RAYLEIGH AND MRS .
H. SIDGWICK ON THE ABSOLUTE After the disc had been dismounted , the diameter could be determined more advantageously by direct observation through microscopes focussed upon its edge with subsequent reference to the standard scale .
It was found ( August 19 , 1882 ) that a very appreciable erence existed between the diameter of the upper and lower faces , showing that the edge was somewhat conical .
At the upper edge the diameter was , and at the lower edge .
These were the extremes .
At the middle of the thickness the diameter was 31075 .
This departure from the truly cylindrical form was undoubtedly a defect in the apparatus , which could easily have been avoided if detected in time .
When the apparatus was first set uP , the success of the experiment was problematical , and a minute examination of the disc seemed premature .
The diameter to be adopted is an average taken with reference to the conductivity of brush contact .
The whole width of the brush being decidedly less than the thickness of the disc , and the pressure being greatest at the central parts , we decided ( of course without knowing to what precise final result the estimate would lead ) to take the mean of and .
Thus millims. The error due to the conicality of the edge cannot exceed one part in 5000 at the worst , and thus it appeared scarcely worth while to correct the defect and repeat the spinnings .
The diameter of the shaft at the place where the other brush contact was made , was found to be 825 inch , or millims. The induction coils .
S23 .
These are the same as were used in Mr. GLAZEBROOK'S measurement , and were wound by Professor in 1878 .
The following are the dimensions ; for further particulars reference may be made to Mr. GLAZEBROOK'S Memoir .
* Since the coils are so nearly similar and were used symmetrically , it is sufficient to use the numbers in the last column .
The section of the ring is shown in fig. 4 full size .
To find the distance of mean planes the following measurements of the thicknesses of the rims are required .
iven ientimetres .
VALUE OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION UNIT OF RESISTANCE .
Now that the rings are wound it is difficult to verify these numbers .
However , the total thickness of the rings at the places touched by the distance pieces in the arrangement used for Series III .
was taken , with the result These latter values of the thicknesses will be used in the calculation of Series III .
In Series I. and II .
the rings were not reversed , and we must use the numbers above given for the thicknesses of rims which were contiguous to the slips of glass ; but in this case the result is not at all to changes in the distance of mean planes .
The rims contiguous to the glass were for both coils the marked rims , of which the aggregate thickness is 924 .
If we add to this the thickness of the glass strips we obtain as the distance between the wire sections .
Again , adding the mean axial width of section , we find as the distance of the mean planes S24 .
The measurement of the distance-pieces used for the third series made with great care .
As only the mean is required , the three pieces were held under the microscopes in one length by a nut and a long bolt running through .
Readings were taken in several positions , as the pieces wel.e turned round , and reference finally thicknesses of the rims which were in contact with the distance pieces .
In the first position these were the marked rims , and thus the distance of mean planes centims. In like manner for the second position we find centims. The induction coefficients .
S25 .
Series I. and II .
The distance ( b ) of the mean planes of the coils from the middle plane of the disc is centim. The extreme distances , required to be known for the quadrature , are centims. , centim. The extreme and mean radii are centims. , centims. , centims. while centims. The coefficient of induction between the disc and the middle turn of the coil , denoted by , is equal to , where is a function of given by tables .
The angle itself is defined by MAXWELL'S ' Electricity and Magnetism , ' 2nd edition , S 706 .
VALUE OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION UNIT OF RESISTANCF .
It is not necessary to give the details of the calculations , which have been carefully checked .
The tabular interval being , it was found desirable in many cases to proceed beyond the simple interpolation by first differences .
The results are The mean coefficient for the area of the section is found by doubling the { irst of these values , adding in the others , and then dividing by 6 .
Thus The separate values allow us to form an estimate of the effect of errors in the fundamental data .
If we write we may take approximately In like manner , , whence , since Series III .
In this case the data remain precisely as before , except that we now have We find whence Determining , as in the former case , we find From these values , calculated for the circumference of the disc , we have to subtract * The factor expressing the number of windings is omitted .
the value appJicable to the small circuit touched by the inner brush .
of this is .
For the first and second series we have For the third series in like manner Thus finally for the first and second series and for the third series The resistance coils .
S 26 .
In all three series the resistance , fig. 3 , was a German-silver coil of about , referred to for brevity as the ; and the resistance was composed of three resistances in multiple arc , the first two being standard singles , and the third a resistance such as 7 B.A. units taken from a box .
To make the necessary change , according to the plan already explained in S9 , the 7 would be replaced by 8 .
The value of is of course determined principally by the unit resistance coils , and only secondarily by the resistance taken from the box .
The third element of the system of resistances was varied in the different series .
In the first series was a [ 10 ] , in the second series it was , and in the third series .
Besides the standard singles , whose values at various temperatures was already known in terms of the mean B.A. unit , we had to determine accurately the values of the , the , the [ 5 ] , and the , as well as the small resistances of the various connecting pieces ] oyed .
The [ 10 ] has been dete1mined in various ways , but principally by means of the device referred to in the former paper .
Three German-silver wires of about 3 units each are wound on the same tube , and their terminals are so arranged that by means of a base board containing mercury cups they can be combined either in multiple arc or in series .
In the former combination they are compared with a standard single , and the resistance is foumd to be ( say ) , where is small .
The coils are now without loss of time combined in series , a change which can be effected in a moment .
The resistance in series is very approximately by the addition of the standard single it becomes , and can now be compared with the [ 10 ] .
If the difference observed be we have .
By this method it is easy to obtain an accuracy of at least *Phil .
Traus .
, Part II .
, ISS2 , p. 697 .
VALUE OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION UNIT OF RESISTANCE .
The [ 5 ] were determined in two ways .
Five singles were combined in series and compared with one of the ; afterwards the two 's were compared with one another .
In the second method , which is probably preferable , the sum of the two 's was found by comparison with the [ 10 ] .
From the sum aJld difference the separate values can of course be deduced .
The measurement of the demanded some precaution on account of its smallness .
Two standard ] , the [ 10 ] , and the , were combined with four insulated mercury cups , and without the use of connecting pieces , so as to form a WHEATSTONE'S balance ( fig. 5 ) , care being taken to bring the associated battery and galvanometer te1minals into immediate contact with the legs of the ( see S12 ) .
To get the means of adjustment , a box , giving resistances up to 10,000 , was placed in multiple arc with one of the singles .
If , as was the case , the four coils be so nearly in proportion that a resistance of several hundreds from the box is needed for balance , the delicacy of the arrangement is all that can be desired .
Readings taken also with battery reversed , to eliminate thermo-electric disturbances .
Especial paiIls were taken with the measurement of the , and of the [ 10 ] , errors of which old be propagated into the results of all three series .
S27 .
The various temperatures of the coils at the time of use , and the fluctuations from day to day , complicate the calculation of the effective and which iu principle is simple enough .
The results are given in column II .
of the Tables .
Thus in the first series on July 14 , when the effective resistance , as calculated from the values of , for the observed temperatures of the coils , the effect ( E-W ) of reversing the battery key ( corrected direct effect ) divisions of the galvanometer scale , the direction of rotation being positive .
When the effective resistance was altered to 0044430 , the difference E-W became divisions .
From these results we infer that E-W would vanish for the effective resistance 0044341 , as given in column V. The corresponding result with negative rotation is given in column VI .
These resistances relate to the actual speed of rotation determined by the frequency of vibration of the electric fork ( S 6 ) .
To render the results of different days fairly comparable , two small corrections have to be the results of the positive negative rotations are combined , so as to exhibit the total result of the day 's work .
The Table , showing the results of the third series , is divided into two parts , correspoudin to the two positions of the induction coils , before and after reversal ( S 19 ) .
In each position , it will be seen that two sets of observations were taken upon one of the days .
Both sets , however , were complete , and in the interval between them the resistance coils were all dismounted .
A similar precaution was taken least once in each of Series I. and II .
S28 .
The results given in these tables are the effective resistances reqmred to obtain a balance , expressed in terms of the B.A. unit .
To reduce them to absolute measure we must multiply by , and by a , which we may call , expressing the absolute value of the B.A. unit in terms of , and which it is our object to determine .
The actual value of the same quantities in absolute measure is found by multiplying the coefficients of duction ( already given ( S 25 ) , by the number of turns in the coils 1588 , and by the number of revohltions per second .
In the first series the frequency of vibration ( f ) of the electric tunin-fork was in the standard.case ( see Appendix ) and the number of revolutions per second is equal to .
In the second and third series , a number which in the second series is to be divided by 16 , and in the third series by 10 , in order to obtain the number of revolutions per second .
The equation to determine is thus for the first series of observations whence From the second series From the third series These are the final results already considered in S21 .
APPENDIX .
Frequency of Vibration of Fork All our measurements , both by this method and by that of the revolving coil , being dependent upon the pitch of a standard tuning-fork , we have considered it advisable to determine this element afresh .
As in the first determinatio a fork vibrating about 32 times per second rendered intermittent an electric current , which , passing * Proc. Roy .
Soc. , May , 1881 , p. 137 .
OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIAI'ION UNIT OF RESISTANCE .
through the coils of small electromagnets , maintained in vibration not only the interrupter fork itself , but also a second fork of pitch about 128 .
After the apparatus has been a short time in operation , the vibrations of the second fork are exactly four times as quick as those of the first , independently of any precise tuning ; and they give rise to audible beats when the standard fork is simultaneously excited .
In the presence of extraneous noises the observation of the beats is much facilitated by the use of resonators , with one of which the ear may be connected by an indiarubber tube .
The object to be aimed at is to make the intensities of the two sounds ( as they reach the ear ) very nearly equal .
The moment of antagonism is then malked by a defined silence , whose occurrence can be timed to within a second , although the whole duration of the beat may be 20 seconds or more .
Without bowing of the standard , the silences be observed satisfactorily for at least a minute .
In the first determination the comparison between the fork of frequency 32 , and the of the clock was made directly .
The observer , looking over a plate carried by the upper prong of the fork , obtained 32 views per second , i.e. , 64 views of the pendulum in one complete vibration .
The immediate subject of observation is a silvered bead attached to the bottom of the pendulum , upon which as it passes the position of equilibrium the light of a paraffin lamp is concentrated .
Close in front of the pendulum is placed a screen perforated by a somewhat vertical slit .
If the period of the pendulum were a precise multiple of that of the fork , the flash of light which to ordinary observation would be visible at each passage , would either be visible , or be obscured , in a permanent manner .
If , as in practice , the coincidence be not perfect , the flashes appear and disappear in a regular cycle , whose period is the time in which the fork gains ( or loses ) one complete vibration .
This period can be determined with any degree of precision by a sufficient prolongation of the observations .
On account of the large number of views per second , the interval between successive visible positions of the bead , even when it is moving with maximum velocity , is rat'ner small ; and thus the adjustment of the apparatus is somewhat delicate .
* In order to meet this objection , a modification has been introduced , which must now be explained .
A few years ago it was shown almost simultaneously by LA COUR and by Lord RAYLEIGH , that an electromagnetic engine could be accurately governed by an interrupter-fork .
The construction ( fig. 6 ) which has been found most suitable is similar to that of FROMENT'S engine .
A horizontal shaft , revolving upon steel points carries a *In the earliest use of this method ( ' ' Nature xvii .
, p. 12,1877 ) the break.fork had a frequency of about 13 , and no difficulty of this kind was experienced .
[ July , 1883.\mdash ; It should be stated , however , that the wheel may easily be dispensed with , if proper care be taken in the illumination of the bead and in the management of the fork .
The vibration should be vigorous , and the screens so arranged that the view past the fork at the moment of greatest elongation should be of short duration .
Determinations by this method ( without the wheel ) have often been made successfully by students in the Cavendish Laboratory .
] number of parallel soft iron armatures , disposed symmetrically round the circumference .
In the course of the revolution these armatures pass in succession between the poles of a vertical horse-shoe electromagnet , so as almost to complete the magnetic circuit .
It is much better that the armatures should pass between the poles than over them , as in the most usual arrangement , for in the latter case the bearings are subjected to an unnecessary and prejudicial strain .
The wheel may be used either with or without an independent driving power .
In the former case the power should be very steady , and adjusted so to give by itself nearly the speed intended .
The currents from the interrupter-fork are passed also through the electromagnet of the engine , and give the force required to accelerate or retard the motion so that ib may exactly synchronise with the fork , one armature passing for each complete vibration .
If the independent power is in excess , the phase of the motion is such that the electromagnet is excited principally after the armatures have passed through the electromagnet ; if the independent power is in defect , the electromagnet is excited principally while the armatures are approaching it .
Wi.thin certain limits any necessary acceleration or retardation is obtained by suitable self-acting adjustment of phase .
If when the wheel is moving steadily under the influence of the intermittent currents , a slight disturbance is communicated to it , oscillations will set in , the wheel being alternately in advance and in the rear of its proper position .
In some cases these oscillations are very persistent , interfere seriously with the utility of the instrument .
To check them , a hollow ring filled with water is attached to the shaft , and revolves with it .
When the rotation is perfectly l.egulal .
, the water behaves as if it were a rigid body and offers no impediment to the motion , but it tends to check variations of speed of moderate period .
The oscillations .
when they exist , are usually audible ; and in any case the behaviour of the wheel in this and other respects may be examined by , at the interrupter-fork through a paper disc carried by the wheel VALUE OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION UNIT OF RESISTANCE .
and perforated symmetrically along a circle with holes equally numerous with the armatures .
When all is regular , the prongs of the fork are seen in one phase only , so long as the eye retains a position fixed in space .
When the wheel runs lightly , independent driving power may be dispensed with , sufficient amount of work being obtainable from the intermittent governing current .
In the present case the whole apparatus , consisting of the two forks and the wheel , was driven by one current supplied from three GROVE cells .
The only difficulty experienced is in starting the wheel .
By means of string passed once round the shaft , alternately tightened for the advance and slackened for the return , it is easy to cause the wheel to achieve a speed in excess of the necessary eight revolutions per second .
But it will not usually happen , every time the speed through the proper value , that the wheel will engage with the fork .
For this purpose it is necessary that at the moment in question the phase of the wheel should be correct , within limits , which may be narrow when there is no great margin of power ; and this can only happen by chance .
Several attempts may be necessary before success is reached .
With a little practice , however , there is no great loss of time , the ear learning to recognise , by the gradual slowing and subsequent quickening of a sort of beat , when the wheel has passed through the right speed without engagement .
A fresh impulse is then given without waiting further .
After a start is once effected , the wheel will usually run , keeping perfect time with the fork , until the battery is exhausted .
The wheel employed in the experiments we are now con cerned with , has four soft iron armatures , and is governed by the interrupter-fork of frequency 32 .
The speed of the wheel is thus eight revolutions per second ; and a single hole in a paper disc calried round with it allows eight views of the pendulum second , the smallest number of views obtainable by direct use of the fork being 32 .
Altogether we may regard the frequency of the interrupter-fork as being multiplied four times precisely in the frequency of the auxiliary fork , and as divided four times precisely in the frequency of the wheel .
The former is directly comparable with the standard fork , and the latter with the clock .
The standard fork was screwed to the table precisely as during the electrical measurements .
A thermometer placed between the prongs gave the temperature with fair accuracy .
The calculation of the results is very simple .
Supposing in the first instance that the clock is correct , let be the number of cycles per second ( perhaps ) between th wheel and the clock .
Since the period of a cycle is the time required for the wheel to gain , or to lose , one revolution upon the clock , the frequency of revolution is The frequency of the auxiliary fork is precisely 16 times as great , i. e. , .
If be the number of beats per second between the two forks , the frequency of the standard is To give an idea of the magnitudes of the numbers concerned , it will be advisable to whence To this we must add , making altogether , to allow for the gaining rate of the clock , which was seconds per diem .
This corresponds to a mean temperature The procedure adopted was quite good enough for our purpose ; but if it were desired to push the power of the method to its limit , the work should be undertaken at an astronomical observatory , and extended over the whole time required to rate the clock by observations of the stars .
In this way the comparison of the period of vibration of the standard fork with the mean solar second could be effected with the same degree of accuracy as that to which the former quantity is capable of definition .
Without this precaution we be quite sure that the rate of the clock at the time of the observations is identical with the mean rate employed in the calculation .
It is scarcely necessary to say that the uncertainty which arises under this head is common to every method by which absolute pitch could be determined .
The results obtained , including those recorded previousl ' are given in the accompanying table .
They are well represented by the formula in which the temperature coefficient used is that found by LEOD and CLARKE .
The numbers in the fourth column are calculated from the formula .
* Proc. Roy .
Soc. , May , 1881 , p. 138 .
Phil. Trans. , Part I. , VALUE OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION UNIT OF RESISTANCE .
Of the small discrepancies which the table exhibits it is probable that the larger part is due to imperfect knowledge of the actual temperatures of the standard fork .
The use of screens to cut off radiation from the observers would probably have effected an improvement .
For the bighest accuracy some sort of jacket , or chamber , would have to be contrived .
SECOIND APPENDIX .
( Added July , 1883 .
) On the Effect of the Imperfect of In a former paper ( Phil. Trans. , 1882 , Part II .
) it was pointed out that the method of the revolving coil , employed by the first B.A. Committee , possesses the important advantage that it is possible to detect the existence of leakage from turn to turn , or from layer to layer , of the coil of wire .
The general influence of such leakage , if undetected , upon the final number expressing the ratio of the resistance of the coil when measured ( R ) in absolute units to its resistance as referred to B.A. units , is easily seen by supposing that one turn of the coil is simply short-circuited .
The formula in C.G.S. measure is During the revolutions the short circuited turn produces its full effec , in deflecting the magnet , and error arises only in the comparison with the standard of resistance .
The quantity will evidently be under-estimated by , and this will lead to an overestimate of ] by .
This result , however , is modified , if as in practice we take only the difference of effects observed when the wire contact is open and closed .
The short-circuited turn will produce its effect in both cases , and its influence will therefore disappear from the result .
For all purposes it will be virtually non-existent , and the error produced is the same as if had simply been miscounted .
The final number will thus be over-estimated by the fraction case is different when the constants of a coil of many turns are determined by electrical comparison , as for instance in KOHLRAUSCII'S recent correction of the constant of his earth-inductor .

