]\gt ; 46 Mr. J. H. [ Mar. 6 , 2 .
The hard steels will not withstand a greater number of reversals of the same ange of stress than the mild steels if the periodicity of the reversals is great .
" " The Equilibrium of otating Liquid Cylinders By J. H. JEANS , , Isaac Newton Student and Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor G. H. , F. .
S. eceived March 6 , \mdash ; Read March 20 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) The most serious obstacle to progress in the ])roblem of determining the equilit)rium configurations of a liquid lies in the difficulty of determining the potential nf a mass of homogeneous matter of which the boundary is given .
If this boundary is , the potential will be a unique-valued fimction of , and , of which the form will depend solely ) the form of .
This potential must therefore be deducible lie some algebraical transformation of the function In the method ustlally followed the solution is found as a volume integral , the intiegration extending throughout the rface ( .
There is , however , a second method of obtaining this potential , namely , by regarding the poteIltial-function as the solution of a differential equation , subject to certain boundary conditions .
This leads to a series of processes , enabling us ( theoretically ) to deduce the potenti by transformation of the function In three-dimensional problems this method is quite practicable , sincs it depends upon a continued application of the formula which expresses the products or powers of spherical harmonics as the sum of a serics of harmonics .
As soo1l , however , we pass to the consideration of two-dimensional pro , the sphel'ical harmonics may be replaced by circular functions of a single variable .
The transformation now becomes manageable , and for this the present paper deals only with two-dimensional problems , for which a method is developed enabling us to write down the potential by transformation of the equation of the boundnry .
The method is not of universal applicability , but is adequate to the problem in hand .
The method as applied to the determination of equilibrium con\amp ; nacute ; gurations is as follows .
Starting from he general equation ( in polar -ordinates ) 1902 .
] The of Rotatin .
transform by the substitution and attempt to solve the resulting equation explicitly for in the form . . . .
( iii ) this soIution being such that the right hand gives the trne of at every point of the snrface given by equation ( ii ) .
The condition the snrface shall be an equilibrium surface mder rotation is found to be by the system of equations The constatlcy of area of the curve ( ii ) cttn be effected ) keeping constant .
This method is subject to certaill m , owing to the possibility of the variotls series becoming divergent .
The linear series of circles and ellipses ( corresponding to the laurin spheroids and Jaoobian ellipsoids ) are investigated without difficulty , and the points of bifurcation on these series are .
The first point of lrcation on the latter scries is shown to to a pearshaped curve , similar to that of Poincare , and it is that exchange of stabilities takes place at this point .
Ths linenr series of which this pear-shaped is the rting point can now be investigated , the equation in an ascending series of powers of a parameter the are not linear , the ation of terms multiplying high powers of is extremely laborious .
The series is , therefore , calculated only as far as , this being found to give tolerable accuracy so far along the series as the expansion is required .
After passing through various pear-shaped the fluid is found to assume a similar to that of a soda-water bottle with a somewhat rounded end .
Beyond this the configuration is found to be suggestive of a tennis-racquet with a very short handle .
' ' neck\ldquo ; gradually forms at the point at which the handle joins the racquet , and this becomes more pronounced , until nltimately the curve separates into parts .
As we proceed along this series the rotation steadily .
At the point of bifurcation the value of is tion takes place this value is about .
It is rigorously proved ) that when separation takes plttce , the regarded as the Jacobian ellipse , to rotation 43 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( iv ) , VOL. LXX .
stable , there is ground for supposing that the series remains stable to the point of separation .
It therefore appears probable that the primary moves through a cycle of configurations in which Jacobi 's and Poincare 's figures alternate .
The angular momentum is decreased by about 30 per cent. , at the ejection of each satellite .
" " On the Action of the on Salmonoid Fishes.\ldquo ; * By H. M. KYLE , M.A. , D.Sc .
, St. Andrews University .
Communicated by Professor McINTOSH , ceived June December 12 , 1901 .
It has been known for some years that the Irish peasantry employed simple method of procuring salmon and trout ough the gency of the Spurge } The plant cut into small pieces and pounded with stones , or simply trampled upon at some convenient spot on a river , forms an emulsion in the water which , being swept downward into the pools , carries death to all fishes in its course .
The fatality thus produced seems to have been enormous\mdash ; 80 to 100 ' salmon are reported to have been killed at one time , and again in the Bandon rivers 500 to 1000 fish of various descriptions are said to have been poisoned during one season .
In the light of the experiments to bo recorded presently , these statements do seem exaggerated , for the Spurge-extract , even in small quantities , is almost as .
fatal to fishes as corrosive sublimate .
The fatal effect of the Spurge on fishes has been known in other countries besides Ireland , but to what ingredient or ingredients of plant these effects are due seems never to have been investigated .
following pages contain a brief record of experiments which , though incomplete in many ways , throw considerable light upon the action of the Spurge , and open out to view some interesting problems .
As the range of this research has included within its scope several Fishmongers ' Company generously gave a sum for carrying outof this .
reaearch .
Special thanks are also to the Hon. G. W. Hely Hutchison , secretary to the ] Fisheries Commission , who forwarded plants of Spurge Ireland .
Report o of Irish Fisheries , ' lS98 , p. 193 .

