he Expedition to Kid INDEX SLIP .
IR .
S. mittee .
Lockyer , .T .
Norman.\#151 ; The Total Solar Eclipse of August 9 , 1896.\#151 ; Report on the Expedition to Kid Island .
Phil. Trans. , A. 1897 , vol. 190 , pp. 1-21 .
Eclipse , Total Solar , August 9 , 1896.\#151 ; Report on Expedition to Kid Island .
Local Conditions.\#151 ; Organization.\#151 ; Change of Temperature during Eclipse .
Lockyer , J. Norman .
Phil. Trans. , A , 1897 , vol. 190 , pp. 1-21 .
Sun , Total Eclipse of , August 9 , 1896.\#151 ; Expedition to Kid Island .
Lockyer , J. Norman .
Phil. Trans. , A , 1897 , vol. 190 , pp. 1-21 .
PAGE 1 .
of unfavourable weathey arrangements winch had v feature was introduced ts which I had received , 5 , to occupy a station in of the most convenient 3 expedition had selected r point , so as to multiply esentations to this elfect lisposal , with instructions 4.9.97 I. The Total Solar Eclipse of August 9 , 189 the Expedition to Kid Island .
By Professor J. Norman Lock ye r , C.B. , F.B.S. Presented by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee .
Received May 15 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
Contents .
I. Preparations for the Eclipse Organisation ... ... ... ... ... .
Objects of the expedition .
Selection of a station ... .
Local conditions of eclipse .
Erection of buts and instruments Organisation of volunteers .
The 6-inch prismatic camera .
The 9-inch prismatic camera .
The integrating spectroscope .
The 3f-inch telescope ... .
Sketches of corona ... .
II .
Results obtained ... ... ... ... ... Temperature observations .
Colours of landscape ... ... ... .
General observations ... .
I. PAGE I. Preparations for the Eclipse .
Although this expedition failed in its main objects , because of unfavourable weather I think it desirable to place on record an account of the arrangements which had been made to secure observations , more especially as a new feature was introduced in the training of a large number of observers .
The weather chances in Japan and elsewhere , from accounts which I had received , were not very promising , and it was determined , therefore , to occupy a station in Lapland , where the chances were certainly better .
One of the most convenient places of observation was Vadso , but as another section of the expedition had selected this station , it seemed desirable to observe from some other point , so as to multiply the chances of obtaining results .
I accordingly made representations to this effect to the Admiralty , and H.M.S. " Volage " was placed at my disposal , with instructions VOL. CXC.\#151 ; A. B 4.9.97 to select ci station on the south side of the Varanger Fjord .
The linal choice of a place for observation was to depend upon examinations of suitable sites near tne central line of eclipse , which as a result of local inquiries seemed to show the greatest probability of a fine morning on August 9th .
The Norwegian Government readily granted permission to land , and instructed the authorities at Vadso to render assistance .
The party consisted of Mr. Fowler , Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer , and myself .
Being a delegate to the International Conference on Bibliography , I could not leave London before July 22nd .
Mr. Fowler and Dr. Lockyer , therefore , went on in advance , and joined ILM .
S. " Yolage " at Hammerfest on July 22nd .
Objects of Expedition .
The success which attended the use of the large scale prismatic camera during the total eclipse of 1893 , indicated that spectroscopes of this form were the most important instruments which could be employed on an eclipsed sun .
In the report on the results obtained in 1893# I have given a full account of the appearances shown on photographs taken with prismatic cameras , and have indicated the special points to be considered in interpreting them .
It may be remarked , however , that among the special services rendered by the instrument are ( 1 ) the separation of the true coronal spectrum from the apparent one produced by reflected chromospheric light when a slit spectroscope is employed ; ( 2 ) localisation of the different radiations , so that we get a complete separation of coronal from chromospheric light , and information relating to the distribution of any particular radiation ; ( 3 ) the special facilities for photographing the phenomena in the lower parts of the sun 's atmosphere , in the region of the so-called " reversing layer .
" Profiting by previous experience , prismatic cameras of the highest available power formed the chief part of the instrumental equipment .
These were the 6-inch prismatic camera employed in Africa in 1893 , and a 9-inch which had recently been purchased for the Solar Physics Observatory .
The work of each of these instruments was arranged to supplement that of the other in as many particulars as possible .
As long ago as 1871 1 had occasion to lay stress upon the importance of securing a record of the integrated spectrum of the light proceeding from every part of the eclipsed sun .
The use of an integrating spectroscope is now more necessary than ever , for the reason that the prismatic cameras define what part of the total light proceeds from the chromosphere and prominences , so that a simple subtraction gives us the spectrum of the corona .
A large spectroscope , which will be described later , was accordingly prepared as an integrating spectroscope for use during the eclipse .
* 1 Phil , Trans. , ' A , 1896 , rol .
187 , pp. 551-618 .
TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 9 , 1896 .
Another observation , which it was very important to make , was to note the presence or absence of indications of carbon and other substances in the corona .
For this observation a 6-inch telescope , giving a small bright image , and a spectroscope with a silvered glass grating , were provided .
To supplement the work of the photographic spectroscopes , a number of prisms and small slit spectroscopes were taken out for use by such assistants as might be available .
When it was ascertained that an almost unlimited number of helpers was forthcoming , the programme of the expedition was extended so as to include records of as many as possible of the attendant phenomena , and sketches of the corona , with or without the disks introduced by Professor Newcomb in 1878 to protect the eye from the glare of the inner corona .
Selection of a Station .
Leaving Hammerfest on July 23rd , the " Volage " proceeded to the Varanger Fjord , and , after twelve hours ' delay on account of fog , arrived off Kio Island on the evening of July 24th .
The observers , and a surveying party of officers and men under the command of Lieut. Martin , R.N. , were landed here , with tents and other requisites for camping out , while the ship went on to Yadso for mails and provisions , and to make inquiries of the Governor as to the local meteorological conditions .
The exploring party first landed on an island in Bras Havn .
On July 25th the weather was so bad that little progress was made , but towards evening the island of Kio was visited and several possible sites were marked out .
On the following morning another visit to Kio Island resulted in the final selection of a site , and the places for the various instruments were provisionally prepared .
H.M.S. " Volage " returned on the evening of July 26th , and operations were seriously commenced on the following morning , leaving very nearly a clear fortnight for preparations .
The island of Kio lies nearly north of Bras Havn , at a distance of about a mile and a quarter .
It is but small , and consists chiefly of moutonneed gneiss rocks , which are in many places covered with peat to the average depth of a foot .
With the willing help of bluejackets , the actual site was levelled and covered with pebbles from the beach , to minimise the ill effects of the soddened peat .
There was a perfectly clear horizon in all necessary directions , and a sea horizon to the north of east , where the eclipsed sun would be visible .
The nearest safe anchorage for the ship was Bras Havn , so that the observers and working parties had to travel by boats between Bras Havn and Kio Island every day .
The inconvenience of this was greatly reduced by the tents which had been lent by the War Department , in which the observers could rest and take their meals as occasion required .
The latitude of the observing station was 69 ' 54/ 55 " N ; , and the longitude P\gt ; 2 29 ' 46 ' 10 " E. , so that it was a little less than five miles south-east of the nearest part of the central line of eclipse .
Local Conditions of Eclipse .
The apparent semi-diameters of the sun and moon at the time of eclipse were respectively 15 ' 48*4 " and 16 ' 17*8 " , while the duration of totality was 105 seconds .
Assuming the chromosphere to be 10 " deep , a portion of it would thus be visible for 18 seconds after the commencement of totality , and another portion for 18 seconds before the end of totality .
The sun 's altitude at the time of totality was a little over 14 ' , and its amplitude about 7 ' N. of E. The calculated Greenwich time of the commencement of the total eclipse was August 8d .
15h .
57m .
42s .
First contact took place at the approximate position angle 70c west of the north point , and the last at 111 ' east of the north point .
Erection of Huts and Instruments .
To secure proper foundations for each of the instruments , the surface peat was removed , and concrete bases laid down on the solid rock .
The wood framing for the huts had been brought out from England , each piece carefully marked so that no time was lost in erecting them .
The large hut for the 6-inch prismatic camera , as well as that for the siderostat , were almost completed and covered with " Willesden canvas at the end of the first day , owing to the zeal of the chief carpenter , Mr. Martin , and his assistants .
July 28th , like the preceding day , was fortunately fine , and the huts were then completed and made to safely withstand the violent wind experienced .
The photographic dark-room was also finished .
The following two days were wet and cold , but the huts being erected , it was possible to continue the erection and adjustments of the instruments , unpack and attend to various small matters .
A tent , consisting of spars and sail cloth , was also fitted up as a shelter for the large integrating spectroscope .
During the next few days all the instruments brought from England by the " Yolage " were completely mounted , and by the time of my arrival on August 2nd , they were in adjustment and ready for the eclipse .
The remaining instruments which I took out with me on the s.s. " Garonne " were also put in position without delay , so that almost a whole week was available for rehearsals and general training of those members of the ship 's company who volunteered their assistance .
Trial photographs with all three instruments , taken on August Gth , at the same TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 9 , 189G .
time in the morning as the eclipse would occur , showed all to be in perfect readiness and adjustment .
Organisation of " Volage Observers .
In response to a general call for volunteers made by Captain King Hall , K.N. , officers and men to the number of 74 volunteered their assistance for securing observations of the eclipse .
To utilize this help to the best advantage , demonstrations and lectures were given by Mr. Fowler and myself in the Captain 's cabin , which was willingly placed at my disposal for the purpose , and on deck .
As a result of these , selections were made for the different branches of observations .
All the volunteers were well prepared for the eclipse , and full}r capable of using the instruments entrusted to them , assisting with the large instruments , or recording the phenomena for which they were told off .
The complete muster roll of observers and their division into parties was drawn up and handed to me by the Kev .
E. J. Vaughan as follows :\#151 ; !
;\gt ; ' Eclipse Island .
]-3 ' Signal Island .
Personal Assistant to Mr. Norman Lockyer .
Mr. Hugh B. Mulleneux , Midshipman .
1 .
inch Prismatic Camera .
Mr. Fowler .
Lieut. Beal .
Geo. Roberts , A.B. Private Eras .
Huskisson , R.M.L.I. Private Joseph Briggs , R.M.L.I. 2 .
9-inch Prismatic Camera .
Dr. Lockyer .
Mr. Fitzwilliams , Mid .
Mr. Bruce , Mid .
Patrick Sullivan , Lg .
Sliipwrt .
Harry Froud , A.B. Alfred Woollard , A.B. 3 .
Integrating Spectroscope .
Lieut. Martin .
Mr. Silvertop , Mid .
Mr. Brendon , Mid .
Mr. Woodbridge , Mid .
4 .
Disles 3 ' and 5 ' .
Capt. King Hall .
Mr. Parker , Mid .
Fredk .
Hesch , P.O. 2 Cl. William Bowden , P.O. 1 Cl. j Tuos .
Bridgman , P.O. 2 Cl. K , Eoli Island John Hilyard , Qual .
Sig. ) 5 .
Sketches of Corona .
Mr. Constable , Mid .
Mr. Greene , Mid .
Mr. Warton , Mid .
Those .
Sutherland , S. Corpl .
Archd .
Wright , 2 Yeo .
Sig. Edwd .
Marshall , Boy 1 Cl. Robert Roberts , Boy 1 Cl. William Hicks , Qual .
Sig. Chas .
Miles , P.O. 1 Class .
Chas .
Bennett , S.B. Attendant .
Edward Miller , P.O. 1 Class .
James Biss , Boy 1 Class .
Willm .
Barton , Ord .
Joseph Gale , P.O. 1 Class .
Edward Pegler , Lg .
Sig. Cuthbert Davis , Lg .
Sea .
G. Colovrs of Landscape .
Lieut. Sinclair .
On board " Yolage .
" Staff Surgeon Whelan .
Signal Island .
Lieut. Yelverton .
Harry Beresford , Yeo .
Sigs .
Harry White , Ch. Stoker .
Geo. Bennett , Lg .
Seaman .
Herbert Gambler , A.B. James Harding , Stoker .
Eclipse Island .
7 .
Shadoiv Phenomena .
Private Geo. Allen , R.M.L.I. Private Frank Blanchard , R.M.L.I. Private Those .
Gauntlett , R.M.LJ .
Richard Collings , Blacksmith .
8 .
9-inch Equatorial with grating .
Mr. Fowler .
1 First and last Lieut. Clinton Brown , j contacts .
Mr. Norman Lockyer .
-y Lieut. Clinton Brown .
I _ . . .
... Mr. Brooks , Asst .
Paymr .
| 111 nV oai y. Rodney Munday , Sig. Boy .
J 9 .
3| -inchTelescope .
Mr. Norman Lockyer .
Lieut. Hodges .
Henry Lewis , 3rd Writer .
10 .
Slit Spectroscopes .
Lieut. Law .
^ Ciias .
Smith , Boy Writer .
/ Those .
Makepeace , Ch. E.R.A. Willm .
Westacott , Sig. L1 .
Prisms for Pings .
Alex .
Duncan , E.R.A. Thomas Brown , E.R.A. 12 .
Timekeepers .
William Smith , P.O. 1 Cl. Alfred Saunders , P.O. 1 Cl. Mr. C. E. Lloyd Thomas , Mid .
( Chronometer ) .
13 .
Contacts .
1-4 .
Staff Paymaster Ramsay ' .
" ( Signal Staff Engineer Underhill , i Island .
1-4 .
Mr. Fowler .
1 p r T , ) Eclipse Island .
Lieut. Clinton Brown .
J 2nd .
Mr. Norman Lockyer .
3rd .
Mr. Norman Lockyer .
14 .
Polariscope .
Rev. E. J. Vaughan , M.A. , Chaplain .
Rowland Allison , Armourer 's Crew .
15 .
Meteorology ( Thermometers ) .
John Yardley , P.O. 2 Cl. Ciias .
Symes , P.O. 1 Cl. ( Frbd PilZBLD , Stoker .
fEcliPse IsIall , J-Willm .
Thripp , Stoker .
J Ernest Hurst , P.O. 1 Cl. 1 T. Cannon , Lg .
Sig. i g'r 16 .
Stars .
Re\ ' .
E. J. Vaughan , M.A. Lieut. B. Yelverton ( Dup .
) .
Lieut. Hugh F. Sinclair ( Dup .
) .
17 .
Landscape Camera .
Marquis of Graham .
Eclipse Island .
18 .
Observations of Shadoiv Bands .
Staff Surgeon Whelan , M.D. Signal Island .
mat Island .
TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 9 , 189G .
The following were the intructions to the observers :\#151 ; " One volunteer in each subject to collect results and see that everything is signed .
Also these must see Mr. Lockyer in the course of this morning ( August 9 ) to report all ready , \amp ; c. " Disks ( F. Hescii , P.O. , 2nd CL , to report ) .
Disk observers , besides dictating what they see , should afterwards give a sketch if possible ( small sun ) .
Sketches of Corona ( Mid .
Constable to report ) .
Sketchers , besides making drawings , should hand in a written statement of what they have seen .
Both this and the sketches should be signed .
Colours of Landscapes ( H. Beresford , Yeo .
Sig. , to report ) .
Besides filling up the form , each observer should hand in a signed statement of his impressions .
Shadow Phenomena ( Private G. Allen , and B. Collings , Blacksmith , to report ) .
( 1 .
) Note shadow approaching from westward .
( 2 .
) Give an idea of the apparent velocity .
( 3 .
) Give an idea of the effects on colours , \amp ; c. ( 4 .
) Give an idea of the effects on birds , \amp ; c. ( 5 .
) How long visible before totality ?
Slit Spectroscopes ( Lieut. Law , and T. Makepeace , Ch. E.R.A. , to report ) .
( 1 .
) What was the nature of the spectrum ?
( 2 .
) Was it a continuous , or a bright line one ?
( 3 .
) What were the colours of the bright lines ?
( 4 .
) What were the colours of the brightest lines ?
( 5 .
) General remarks .
Prisms for Observations of Rings ( A. Duncan , E.R. A , to report ) .
( 1 .
) Were there any bright rings ?
( 2 .
) If so , what colours were they ?
( 3 .
) Which ring was brightest ?
( 4 .
) Which ring was broadest ?
( 5 .
) General remarks .
Timekeepers ( Mid .
Thomas to take charge of Admiralty chronometer ) .
( 1 .
) Warn Mr. Lockyer 5 minutes before G.M.T. of first contact .
( 2 .
) Note times of first and last contacts as called by Mr. Fowler , ( 3 .
) Warn Mr. Lockyer 10 minutes before G.M.T. of commencement of totality .
8 PROFESSOR J. NORMAN LOCKYER ON THE ( 4 .
) Note the time when Mr. Lockyer calls " 180 ' , " and call " 1 minute " after the lapse of 6 m. 50 s. ( 5 .
) Note the times of beginning and end of totality , as signalled by Mi .
Lockyer .
W. Smith and A. Saunders ( 1st Cl. P.O. 's ) to take charge of stop-watch .
( 1 .
) At signal " go " from Mr. Lockyer , Smith , with back to the sun , to announce " 105 seconds " and afterwards give the time remaining every 5 seconds by such calls as " 95 seconds more .
Saunders meanwhile to observe general phenomena .
( 2 .
) At " 65 seconds more , " Saunders to turn his attention to stop-watch and to call " 60 " simultaneously with Smith , afterwards continuing the calls every 5 seconds .
During the last 45 seconds Smith to note the general appearances .
Contact Observations ( Staff Paymaster Ramsay , and Staff Engineer Underhill ) .
( 1 .
) Select coloured glasses to enable you to comfortably observe the sun before the eclipse begins .
( 2 .
) Note time of first contact , as indicated by the chronometer provided .
( 3 .
) Similarly note times of 2nd , 3rd , and 4th contacts .
( 4 .
) Compare chronometer with ship 's chronometers .
( 5 .
) Note general impressions of phenomena .
Thermometers ( C. Symes , P.O. , 1st Cl. , to report ) .
( 1 .
) Prepare forms for entering observations .
( 2 .
) Set up screens 3 ft. 6 in .
high to shield thermometers from direct rays of sun , the thermometer to be 3 ft. from the ground and 1 ft. from screen .
( 3 .
) Begin readings at first contact .
( 4 .
) End readings at last contact .
( 5 .
) Read every 5 minutes , or oftener , if rapid changes are noted .
Observations of Stars ( Rev. E. J. Vaughan to report ) .
( 1 .
) Give list of first magnitude stars seen close to sun .
( 2 .
) State whether any second or third magnitude stars were seen .
( 3 .
) Was the number of stars about equal to that usually seen at full moon , or was it darker and more stars visible ?
Landscape Camera ( The Marquis of Graham ) .
( L. ) Before totality , see that the sun 's image is near the centre of the plate .
( 2 .
) Expose a plate for 1 second when the timekeeper calls " 95 seconds left .
" ( 3 .
) Expose a plate for 5 seconds when " 55 seconds " is called .
( 4 .
) Note your general impressions of the phenomena .
TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 9 , 1896 .
The 6-inch Prismatic Camera .
The 6-inch prismatic camera , entrusted to Mr. Fowler , was essentially the same instrument as that employed for the Eclipse of April 16th , 1893 , in West Africa.* Instead of the mounting of my 6-inch Cooke telescope , however , the equatorial head of a Dallmeyer photoheliograph was adapted for the occasion , this resting upon a wooden stand which was afterwards filled up with concrete .
The wooden tube of the instrument was square in section and was firmly attached to the declination axis by a strong iron plate .
A consideration of the position angles of the points of contact indicated that dispersion in an east and west direction would better show the chromospheric arcs , and the prism was placed accordingly .
In 1893 , ten dark slides , each holding three dry plates , were provided .
The experience then gained showed that narrower plates would meet all requirements , so five compartments were made to replace the three in each slide , and in this way fifty plates became available .
Guided by the results obtained in 1893 , the following table of exposures was drawn up for this instrument:\#151 ; * ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1896 , vol. 187 , p. 559 .
C VOL. CXC.\#151 ; A. PROFESSOR J. NORMAN LOCKYER ON THE Exposures for 6-inch Prismatic Camera .
N umber .
Exposure .
Time .
Remarks .
1 Instantaneous 1 minute before totality 2 , # 40 seconds " , , 3 33 . .
30 " 4 * 3 . .
20 " 5 " to , , ) ; 6 33 105 Totality begins .
Wait signal 7 5 ?
103 8 53 101 9 3 3 93 10 " 97 11 1 92 12 " 90 13 33 88 14 3 ' 86 15 33 84 C hromosphere disappears 16 20 seconds 79-59 17 12 " 57-45 18 19 30 " i Instantaneous 43-13 11 Chromosphere l'eappears 20 " 9 21 \#187 ; 4 22 2 23 3 3 0 Totality ends 24 : 25 33 i 1 2 seconds after totality 26 33 33 * * 9 27 33 v \gt ; \gt ; 5 ?
yt 11 28 33 -1* 3 3 39 33 13 29 33 ^ 33 33 33 15 30 31 33 33 33 33 3 ) 17 ^ 1 33 33 93 22 32 33 33 33 39 24 33 33 53 33 35 26 34 35 V 35 33 33 28 35 33 33 93 33 30 36 33 3 ?
3 5 3 35 37 33 ^ 3 3 3 3 3 9 37 38 ?
3 3 3 - 3 33 39 39 33 A1 " " 41 40 33 3J -3 3 , 43 41 3 5 5 ?
1 ) 48 42 33 ' ' 5 5 ) ) 50 43 33 52 " " " 44 33 54 45 33 56 46 35 61 " " 47 5 3 \#166 ; it " " " 6o 48 39 ^ 39 5 ) 33 65 49 33 3* 33 33 67 50 33 33 33 33 69 . .
" Euwahds 's Isochromatic plates were employed throughout .
TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 9 , 1896 .
The method of working the instrument was that adopted hy Mr. Fowler in 1893 .
He himself being stationed at the camera , 2nd Class Petty Officer G. M. Roberts made the exposures by withdrawing a card from the front of the prism , while Sub-Lieutenant Beal made careful records of the times at which each plate was exposed , and warned Mr. Fowler of the termination of the three long exposures .
Privates J. Briggs and F. Huskisson stood one on each side and respectively handed the slides to and received them from Mr. Fowler .
Fig. l. The 6-incli Hufc , showing Mr. Fowler and liis Assistants at drill .
Actual rehearsals with the splendid assistance thus available showed that the programme could be thoroughly carried out ; in fact a few seconds were saved , so that the attempt to secure a photograph exactly at the end of totality was the more likely to be successful .
The 9 -inchPrismatic Camera .
This instrument was entrusted to Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer .
The tube carrying the prism , lens , and camera of the 9-inch prismatic camera was fixed horizontally on loaded packing cases resting on concrete foundations , and the sun 's rays were reflected into it by the mirror of a 12-inch siderostat .
Three dark slides , each holding three plates , were provided , the change from one plate to the next in each slide being made by a rack and pinion .
An additional slide , carrying a plate X 6| " , was so arranged that the light passing through a narrow slit running the whole length of the spectrum was exposed at any instant .
The position c 2 J2 PROFESSOR J. NORMAN LOCKYER ON THE of this slit was adjusted so as to fall at the point where the photosphere would reappear after the'end of totality .
This " dropping plate " was^ intended to be exposed from as near as possible ten seconds before the end of totality , to 15 seconds after , the spectrum being moved slowly in the direction at right angles to the length of the spectrum .
Fig. 2 .
Tlic 9-inoli Prismatic Camera .
With this instrument the exposures were intended to be longer than with the 6-inch , so that there might be a greater chance of obtaining impressions of the fainter coronal rings .
The complete scheme of exposures was as follows :\#151 ; TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 9 , 1896 .
Exposures for 9-inch Prismatic Camera .
Number .
Exposure .
Time .
Remarks .
_ 1 1 Instantaneous 10 seconds before * totality 2 105 Totality begins .
Wait signal .
3 10 seconds 103-93 4 5 88-83 Cliromospliei*e disappears .
5 10 " 81-71 6 30 " 69-39 \#166 ; 7 5 " 34-29 8 10 " 27-17 Chromosphere reappears .
9 Instantaneous 15 10 25 seconds 10 seconds before Dropping plate .
totality to 15 seconds after In working the instrument Dr. Lockyer had five assistants .
Midshipman Fitz-williams was in charge of the siderostat , to attend to clock-winding , \amp ; c. ; Midshipman Bruce acted as special timekeeper to note the times by a deck watch at which each plate was exposed and to announce the termination of the longer exposures ; Shipwright P. Sullivan stood by the prism to remove the cap at a signal from Dr. Lockyer and to replace it when Midshipman Bruce gave the signal " over " ; Able Seamen H. Froud and A. Woollard respectively handed the dark slides to Dr. Lockyer and replaced them in the box from which they had been taken .
The Integrating .
This instrument was entrusted to Lieutenant Martin , B.N. The dispersive parts of the integrating spectroscope consisted of two dense flint glass prisms of 60 ' , having an effective aperture of very nearly 3 inches .
As collimator , a 4-inch Cooke object-glass ( Taylor 's patent triplet ) of 72 inches focus was employed , while the camera was fitted with a portrait lens of 19 inches focus .
The optical parts were mounted on a board 7 feet by 2 feet 6 inches .
This was hinged to another board of the same size , which was to serve as a base , and the boards could be inclined at an angle equal to the sun 's altitude by the use of blocks .
The base rested upon loaded packing cases which were carefully levelled with cement upon a solid rocky foundation .
As a siderostat was not available for use with this instrument , a simple arrangement was provided for keeping the collimator approximately directed to the centre of the dark moon during totality .
A 2-inch object-glass of 30 inches focus was fixed to the inclined board so as to throw an image of the sun on the centre of a small screen when the collimator was pointed at the sun .
The whole spectroscope could be moved in azimuth by means of a milled headed driving screw , 4 inches in length , which was turned by hand , and in this way the sun 's image could be kept sufficiently near to the centre of the screen to ensure a large proportion of the direct rays of the corona entering the collimator .
The instrument was housed in a tent made of spars and sails , loaded with rocks to prevent it being blown away by the wind .
The only opening was towards the east , in the direction of the eclipse , but on the morning of the eclipse one side was removed in order that the workers might be able to view the phenomena as opportunity offered .
Three plates were exposed during totality with the following exposures , but no results were obtained :\#151 ; Number .
Exposure .
Time .
Remarks .
1 15 seconds 105-90 2 65 85-20 3 10 " 15- 5 5 seconds allowed to prevent over-running The times indicated in the table are , as before , those announced by the general timekeepers as measuring the number of the remaining seconds of totality .
Lieutenant Martin , E.N. , was assisted by Midshipman JSilvertop as exposer , Midshipman Brendon as special timekeeper , while Midshipman Woorbridge attended to the screw for keeping the collimator directed to the sun .
The 3^-Inch Refractor .
The 3f inch Cooke telescope was mounted on a small equatorial head without clamps or adjustments .
In this case the tripod stand was dispensed with , and the head was screwed to the top of a loaded packing-case .
A diagonal eyepiece , which could be rapidfy changed , by a simple operation , from total deflection at a silvered surface to reflection from plane glass , was provided .
With this instrument it was my intention to observe the times of commencement and ending of totality , and the structure of the inner corona .
Observations of the corona were also to be made by Lieutenant Hodges during the time I was engaged with other instruments , H. Lewis , 3rd Writer , was to act as recorder .
It was calculated by Dr. Lockyer , that 7 minutes 50 seconds before totality the visible crescent would extend over 180 ' , and I hoped to utilise this fact as a check on the accuracy of the chronometers .
Sketches of Corona .
As no photographic telescope was available for the work at Kio Island , I had to rely upon sketches to indicate the general appearance of the corona .
Experience has shown that although drawings usually represent the feebler extensions more TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 9 , 1890 .
clearly than photographs , the drawings made by different observers frequently have little resemblance to each other .
An experiment I had made during the passage outwards on s.s. Garonne , " however , convinced me that these large differences could be almost entirely eliminated after a little practice in sketching from photographs projected upon a screen by a magic-lantern , and that drawings made under good conditions might be very valuable .
The form which the rehearsals took was as follows :\#151 ; Each observer was supplied with the necessary drawing-paper , Morris-tube targets being found to serve this purpose capitally .
By means of a magic-lantern , enlarged views of several different coronas were thrown on a screen for inspection , and attention was drawn to the dissimilarity between any two of these .
Instruction was then given as to the important features to be noted and recorded , special stress being laid on noting accurately the exact orientation of the features in question .
This was facilitated to a great extent by the concentric circles and radial lines surrounding the bullseye , and passing through the centre respectively .
It was suggested , also , to those making these drawings to consider the image of the corona on the screen , or the actual eclipsed sun in the sky as an ordinary compass card , with the north at the top and the east on the right-hand side .
The question of the orientation of any point was by this means an easy matter to determine .
After these preliminary trials the coronas were withdrawn , and a previously unseen one substituted .
This corona was then exhibited on the screen for 105 seconds ?
this being the duration in time of the approaching eclipse , The time was called out in exactly the same manner as was adopted during the actual eclipse .
Commencing with 105 , the number of seconds remaining was called out every 10 seconds until the final 10 seconds were left , when each second was counted .
The image of the corona was then immediately withdrawn from the screen , the observers were allowed 15 minutes , to fill in any extra details which they had observed and not had time to record , and to make any notes of the phenomena in general .
A subsequent examination of the drawings thus made showed a remarkable similarity , and by means of a few rehearsals , the observers became quite expert in inserting most of the details shown on the screen , both as regards form and colour .
During the competition that took place nearly every evening , marks were awarded , 10 being allowed for form and 10 for colour .
In most cases the marks given were high , 18 marks out of 20 was by no means uncommon .
The selection of the sketching party was accordingly based upon the results of these competitions .
For the actual eclipse , each observer was provided with a piece of drawing-paper , 12 inches square , in the centre of which was a blackened disc representing the dark moon ; passing through the centre of the disc were lines at angles of 45 ' , which were taken to represent points of the compass .
Some of the observers were provided with wooden disks to cut oh the light of the lower corona , so that the long extensions might be the better visible .
Two of the disks were arranged to cover the corona to a distance of 3 feet from the moons limb , and one to a distance of 5 feet .
Lieutenant Martin , R.N. , very kindly superintended the setting up of the disks .
The disks themselves were of thin wood , about 5 inches in diameter , and were attached by iron rods to long spars standing vertically .
The place for the eye was determined , in the first instance , with the aid of a theodolite and measuring tape , the altitude and azimuth of the sun at the time of eclipse , and the proper distance of the disk from the eye having been previously calculated .
To guard against error , the pointers indicating the position of the eye were provided with horizontal and vertical movements .
A horizontal bar was supported between two uprights about 18 inches apart , and from this was suspended a piece of wood about 10 inches long , which could slide along it .
A piece of brass , the end of which marked the place of the eye , was free to slide up and down the vertical piece .
Ten minutes before totality the disk observers were to be blindfolded , and , meanwhile , an amanuensis was to keep the pointer in the proper place ; at the commencement of totality the observer would take his place and dictate the directions and lengths in diameters of the most conspicuous streamers .
II .
Results Obtained .
Forty-five plates were exposed in the 6-inch prismatic camera , and three in the integrating spectroscope , but no images were obtained in consequence of the thick clouds .
There was no opportunity of adjusting the 9-inch , so that the plates were not even exposed .
Lord Graham secured during totality an excellent photograph with the X -5 " camera , which showed that the sun was completely blotted out from view by the dense clouds at the time the exposure was made .
I he only other observations were those secured by the " Volage .
" observers .
These are appended .
Meteorology ( Tem ) .
As already stated , six observers were told off* to take thermometer readings at intervals of five minutes throughout the entire eclipse .
Two observers were stationed at each thermometer , one to take the readings and another to note the times .
I he thermometer on Bras Havn was graduated on Fahrenheit 's scale and was fully exposed .
those on Kio Island were Centigrade thermometers , and they were supported at a height of 3 feet from the ground , at a distance of a foot from a piece of sail cloth , which shielded them from the direct rays of the sun .
d he readings observed are shown in the following ; table :\#151 ; TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OP AUGUST 9 , 1896 .
17 Temperature Observations During Eclipse .
Time .
I " Thermometer in open .
Island in Bras Havn .
Petty Officer , 1st Class , E. W. Hurst ; Leading Signalman , T. Cannon .
Shielded thermometer , Ho. 1 .
Kio Island .
Petty Officer , 1st Class , C. Symes ; Petty Officer , 2nd Class , J. Yardley .
Shielded thermometer , No. 2 .
Kio Island .
Stokers , E. Faizell and W. Tbripp .
Remarks .
A.M. ' F ' c. 'F .
'C .
'F .
'C .
5 .
0 52 ii i 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 1st contact 3 50 10 5 49-75 9-9 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 7 48-75 9-3 8 48 8-9 10 47 8-3 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 15 46 5 8 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 20 46 7-8 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 25 46 7-8 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 30 46 7-8 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 35 46 7-8 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 40 46 7-8 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 45 45/ 5 7-6 45-95 7-75 46-85 8-25 50 45-75 7-6 45-95 7-75 46-85 8-25 Totality 55 45-5 7-5 45-5 7-5 46-4 8 6 .
0 45-5 7-5 45-5 7-5 46-4 8 5 45-5 7-5 45-95 7-75 46-4 8 10 45-5 7-5 45-95 7-75 46-85 8-25 15 45-5 7-5 45-95 7-75 46-85 8-25 20 45-5 7-5 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 25 45 " 5 7-5 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 30 46 7-8 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 35 47 8-3 46-4 8 47-3 8-5 40 47 8-3 45 47 8-3 50 47 8-3 55 47 8-3 Last contact 7 .
0 47 8-3 Temperature remained | at 45'-5 E. ( 7c-5 C. ) I during totality .
I It will be seen from the foregoing that the exposed thermometer fell 6^ ' F. between first contact and totality , but only rose 1^ ' F. from totality to near the time of last-contact .
The variations of the two shielded thermometers on Kio Island were exactly equal , although the actual readings differed by half a degree Centigrade .
From first contact to totality the fall of temperature was 0'*5 C. ( 0'*9 F. ) , while there was an equal rise of 0''5 C. from totality to near the end of the eclipse .
Landscape Colours .
The observations of the colours of sky , clouds , land , and water before , during , and after totality , are indicated in the following table , and by the additional remarks appended :\#151 ; .
vol. cxc.\#151 ; A. D GO Landscape Colours , \amp ; c. Sky .
Clouds .
Land .
Water .
Direction .
Before During After Before During After Before During After Before During After totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
f Streaks of Heavy , in Grey ; ... ... light in bands green horizon .
A little blue sky ... ... ... Dull grey , ... ... Black ... ... ... ... slate Blue Violet Blue Dirty grey Dark Grey Black Blue Blue Yellowish ... East .
- i black brown Dark , with ... ... ... Dirty Blue bright streak . .
\#166 ; Purple ... ... Sepia ... ... Black ... Light ... blue streaks Blue Blue ... Dark slate Slate ... Grey Dark Dirty Dirty ... .
i L brown r Light near Heavyand ... ... horizon .
black Greenish tinge ... ... ... ... ... ... Black ... ... ... South .
-\lt ; Blue Light blue Grey Grey Dark Dark Violet Bluish ... Brownish Light blue ... Grey Grey Grey , Grey , with Dark Dark Dirty Blue with red bluish tip streaks 1 j ... Blue Dark Dark and . . .
Brown Brown ... Dirty i Dirty ... 1 light 1 Observer .
Lieut. Yelverton , R.N. Chief Stoker H. E. White .
Leading Signalman G. A. Bennett .
Yeoman of Signals H. Beresford .
H. Gambler , A.B. J. Harding , Stoker .
Lieut. Yelverton , R.N. Chief Stoker H. E. White .
Leading Signalman G. A. Bennett .
1 Yeoman of Signals H. Beresfobd . .
J , Harding , Stoker .
PROFESSOR J. NORMAN LOCICYER ON THE Landscape Colours , \amp ; c. ( continued ) .
Sky .
Clouds .
Land .
Water . .
Direction .
Before During After Before During After Before During After Before During After Observer .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
totality .
r A little Neutral Greys and ... Dark grey Lieut. Yelverton , R.N. blue sky and dark green Black ... ... ... Slate blue ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Chief Stoker H. E. White .
Dark and Grey ... ... Dark ... ... Yellowish ... ... Leading Signalman G. A. light blue , streaky Dark Bennett .
West .
Smatl patch ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Dirty Blue Yeoman of Signals H. of blue Beresford .
Light sepia ... Dirty ... ... Natural ... ... Grey ... H. Gambler , A.B. streaked with greyish blue white 1 Blue ... ... Slam Light ... Brown ... ... Dirty ... ... J. Harding , Stoker .
r Heavy Light ; Grey Dark and Band of Dark grey Lieut. Yelverton , R.N. clouds very little heavy reddish blue green light on hill , slate blue elsewhere ... ... ... ... Black , ... ... Black ... Streak of Chief Stoker H. E. White .
streaked light North .
Blue Grey with yellow colour i ... ... ... ... Dark ... ... Black ... ... Leading Signalman G. A. | | Bennett .
' Grey and blue capped with Grey blue , capped with white Dark blue , with reddish Grey , with silver tops ... ... Dark ... ... Dirty Pale streak from E. to W. Yeoman of Signals H. Beresford .
white Dark sepia ... streaks ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... H. Gambler , A.B. Blue ... ... Dark ... Brown ... ... Dirty ... ... J. Harding , Stoker .
O TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 9 , 1896 Additional notes of colours , \amp ; c. were as follows :\#151 ; Chief Stoker R.E. White " Before totality there was hardly any change from usual colours .
During totality the land went hlack , streaks in clouds assumed a reddish-yellow tint , and a streak of light colour appeared on the sea towards the north , otherwise no change .
" Yeoman of Signals H. Beresford :\#151 ; 11 Before totality the sun was shining only on a patch of land to the westward of Vadso , which appeared like a sandhill with a reddish tint ; no change noted elsewhere , either in land , sky , or water .
During totality the land and water appeared to be of an inky blackness ; no change was observed in the sky ; the air seemed to go suddenly cold .
Directly alter the total eclipse a slight change appeared in sky to the south ; the land came back to its ordinary colour , the sun shining on the same place as before total eclipse ; the water underwent a slight change , to the northward a pale blue streak running from east to west , and the air seemed to feel a little warmer .
" General Observations .
After the eclipse the following notes as to the general phenomena observed were received from the officers named :\#151 ; Staff-Surgeon J. H. Whelan , M.D. :\#151 ; " The sudden rush of darkness at totality caused a feeling of dread ; an instinctive feeling of fright lest the source of our being had gradually been extinguished , it seemed to me .
" The gulls started a discordant calling which seemed to distinctly change to one of rejoicing when the light began to increase again .
" During totality , the sky being nearly entirely overcast by clouds , a brightness appeared to the north , and another to the south , west of the horizon , as if the sun had set there , tingeing the clouds .
" Lieutenant Yelverton , B.N. , noted the bleating of sheep and screaming of gulls during the darkness of totality .
Lieutenant W. El .
B. Law , B..N.:\#151 ; " For 20 minutes before totality the sky darkened appreciably .
The clouds to the south took an ashy grey colour , the land also took a dark grey tint , and looked , if possible , even more desolate and barren than before .
In fact , the whole appearance of land and sky to the south looked as if a heavy thunderstorm was imminent .
" About 4 seconds before the signal for totality was given , a rift in the clouds allowed the sun to be seen .
The moon had covered all except a thin crescent at the left hand bottom corner ; the inner edge of the crescent through binoculars appeared somewhat rough ; then the clouds came over again .
" Suddenly it became much darker\#151 ; somewhat like the darkness of a London fog ( medium ) ; the moon 's shadow swept across the earth and sea , moving in a north by westerly direction .
The air became appreciably colder to the feelings , and the sea TOTAL SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 9 , 1896 .
birds began screaming .
A few seconds before mid-totality a faint glare or reflection became visible on the clouds about the sun 's position , lasting several seconds .
" Just about 5 seconds before the end of totality , the sky became clearer , the shadow could be seen sweeping across the fjord , looking like a huge catspaw moving rapidly to leeward .
" Directly after totality was over , land , sea .
, and sky gradually regained their normal appearances , the lightening process being much quicker than the darkening .
" T. Makepiece ( Chief Engine-room Artificer):\#151 ; " The left limb of the sun was visible for the space of 5 seconds ( before totality ) .
At ' 75 seconds left/ a luminous body was visible , having at the right upper side a smaller body of the same nature , both appearing as through a haze .
" At '35 seconds left ' there occurred a great commotion among the sea birds settled on the surrounding rocks .
" Mr. Makepiece afterwards expressed the opinion that the larger of the bright cloudy patches was in the position of the sun , and appeared as if it were the sun seen through several thicknesses of muslin .
It may be remarked that the two patches in question are very distinctly shown in a photograph taken by Lord Graham during totality with the 7^ ' ' X 5 " camera .
A. Duncan and T. Brown ( Engine-room Artificers):\#151 ; " At 5.52 the left limb of the sun was visible for 5 seconds ; colour , very faint white .
At ' 35 seconds to go , ' birds fly off screaming .
" A. Wright ( Second Yeoman of Signals):\#151 ; " Observed a silvery-white crescent from about N " by W. to S. by W. , with a horn pointing in a direction S.E. on the S.W. part of dark moon .
The part of the crescent visible was about one-eighth the diameter of the dark moon .
" Immediately on my return to England , as the " Yolage " was practically going out of commission , I reported to the Royal Society that the arrangements made by the Admiralty to assist the observing party had been carried out in the most admirable maimer , and I suggested that the President and Council of the Society should mark its appreciation of the attempt on the part of a large ship 's company to further the cause of science .
I am glad to say that a letter of thanks was sent by the Society to the Admiralty , and another by the Admiralty to the officers and men of H.M.S. " Yolage .
" In the erection of the huts and instruments , no one could have wished for more help than was given .
Everyone in the ship showed the keenest interest in the work , and help was afforded in every possible manner .
Had the weather been fine , I am convinced that the results obtained by the " Yolage " observers would have been far more complete than any previously obtained by a single party .
I am anxious , also , to state my entire satisfaction with the manner in which Mr. Fowler and Dr. Lockyer conducted the operations before my arrival .

