On the Measurement of High Temperatures .
By James Prinsep , Esq. Assay Master of the Mint at Benares .
Communicated by Peter Mark Roget , M.D. Secretary of the Royal Society .
Read December 13 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 79 .
] The author , after adverting to the many abortive endeavours of former experimentalists to obtain instruments for the accurate admeasurement of high temperatures , and after suggesting doubts as to the confidence to which Wedgwood 's pyrometer is entitled , describes several attempts of his own to effect this very desirable object .
In the course of his inquiries , a remarkable fact presented itself to his notice in the change which occurred in an index constructed on the compensation principle , and formed by two slips of metal , the one of silver and the other of gold , originally quite pure , and united without any alloy .
In the course of a few years , although it had never been subjected to a heat above that of melting lead , the whole surface of the gold became converted into an alloy of silver , the impregnation extending gradually to a considerable depth in the gold , and destroying the sensibility of the instrument to changes of temperature .
After trying various plans , he gave the preference to one founded on the following principles : namely , that the fusing points of the pure metals are fixed and determined ; that those of the three noble metals , namely , silver , gold , and platina , comprehend a very extensive range of temperature ; and that between these three fixed , points in the scale , as many intermediate ones as may be required may be obtained by alloying the three metals together in different proportions .
When such a series of alloys has been once prepared , the heat of any furnace may be expressed by the alloy of least fusibility which it is capable of melting .
The determinations afforded by a pyrometer of this kind will , independently of their precision , have the advantage of being identifiable at all times and in all countries : the smallness of the apparatus is an additional recommendation , nothing more being necessary than a little cupel , containing in separate cells the requisite number of pyrometric alloys , each of the size of a pin 's head .
The specimens melted in one experiment need only .
to be flattened under the hammer in order to be again ready for use .
For the purpose of concisely registering the results , the author employs a simple decimal method of notation , which at once expresses the nature of the alloy , and its correspondence with the scale of temperature .
Thus G.23 P would denote an alloy of gold with 23 per cent. of platina .
As the distance between the points of fusion of silver and of gold is not considerable , the author divides this distance on the scale into ten degrees ; obtaining measures of each by a successive addition of 10 per cent. of gold to the silver , the fusion of which , when pure , marks the point of zero ; while that of gold is reckoned at ten degrees .
If minuter subdivisions were required for particular objects of research , these might easily be made , following always the decimal series .
From the point of fusion of pure gold to that of pure platina , the author assumes 100 degrees , adding to the alloy which is to measure each in succession 1 per cent. of platina .
Whether these hypothetical degrees represent equable increments of temperature is a question foreign to the purpose of this paper , and must be the subject of future investigation .
The author then enters into a detailed account of the method he employed for insuring accuracy in the formation of the requisite series of alloys , and of various experiments undertaken to ascertain their fitness as measures of high temperatures .
The determinations of the heats of the different furnaces adapted to particular objects , are given in a tabular form .
The remaining portion of the paper contains the recital of the author 's attempts to determine by means of an apparatus connected with an air thermometer , the relation which the fusing point of pure silver bears to the ordinary thermometric scale .
An extensive series of experiments , of which the results are given in a table , were made with this apparatus .
From the data thus afforded , after making the necessary corrections , the author deduces the following results in degrees of Fahrenheit : viz. A full red heat 1200 ?
; orange heat 1650 ?
; melting point of silver ( which had been estimated by Wedgewood at 4717 ?
, and by Daniell at 2233 ?
, ) 1830 ?
; of silver alloyed with one tenth gold 1920 ? .
The paper is accompanied with drawings of the apparatus employed .

