1886 .
] Election of Fellows .
June 4 , 1886 .
The Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows was held this day .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read .
Sir Risdon Bennett and Mr. R. H. Scott , were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
The votes of the Fellows present were then collected , and the following candidates were declared duly elected into the Society :\#151 ; Bidwell , Shelford , M.A. Colenso , William , F.L.S. Dixon , Harold B. , F.C.S. Festing , Edward Robert , Major-General R.E. Forsyth , Andrew Russell , M.A. Green , Professor A. H. , M.A. Horsley , Prof. Victor , F.R.C.S. Meldola , Raphael , F.R.A.S. Pye-Smith , Philip H. , M.D. Russell , Henry Chamberlaine , B.A. Sedgwick , Adam , M.A. Unwin , Prof. W. Cawthorne , B.Sc. Warington , Robert , F.C.S. Wharton , William James Lloyd , Capt. R.N. Wilde , Henry .
Thanks were given to the Scrutators .
June 10 , 1886 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
M. Alfred Cornu , Foreign Member ( elected 1884 ) , Mr. Shelford Bidwell , Mr. Harold B. Dixon , Major-General Edward Robert Festing , Mr. Andrew Russell Forsyth , Professor A. H. Green , Professor Victor Horsley , Mr. Raphael Meldola , Dr. Philip H. Pye-Smith , Mr. Adam Sedgwick , Professor W. Cawthorne Unwin , Mr. Robert Warington , Captain William James Lloyd Wharton , and Mr. Henry Wilde were admitted into the Society .
The Right Hon. Archibald Philip Primrose , Earl of Rosebery , and the Right Hon. Thomas John Howell-Thurlow Cumming-Bruce , Lord Thurlow , whose certificate had been suspended as required by the Statutes , were balloted for and elected Fellows of the Society .
472 Professor T. J. Parker .
[ June 10 , The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Blood-vessels of Mustelu a Contribution to the Morphology of the Vascular System in the Verte-brata " By T. Jeffery Parker , B.Sc. , C.M.Z.S. , Professor of Biology in the University of Otago , N.Z. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received June 4 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The paper describes in detail the arteries and veins of Mustelus antarcticus , comparing them with those of other elasmobranchs , and with the embryonic trunks of the vertebrata generally .
As far as the author 's resources would allow , the synonymy of the principal vessels is given .
The paper is illustrated by four quarto plates , and two diagrams in the text ; the figures are , as a rule , made by combining the results of several dissections ; the topographical relations of the chief vessels are shown in drawings of transverse sections of a frozen specimen .
The account of the vessels in Mustelus is supplemented by reference to the chief vascular trunks in the embryo of Scymuus of " Stage 0 " ( Balfour ) ; several sections of this embryo are figured .
The blood is taken from the heart to the gills by five pairs of afferent branchial arteries , one for the hyoidean demibranch or halfgill , and one for each of the holobranc or complete gills borne by the first four branchial arches .
The blood is returned from the gills by nine pairs of efferent branchial arteries , one for each demibranch ; the two efferent arteries of each holobranch are united by two transverse commissures at about the middle of their length , and the arteries of the adjacent demibranchs of successive gills anastomose dorsally and ventrally , forming loops which encircle the internal gill-clefts .
The anterior efferent artery of each holobranch is the main re-vehent trunk of the branchiomere , and is directly continued into an branchial artery lying dorsal to the gill ; the posterior efferent artery discharges into the epibranchial artery of the next following gill .
There are thus four pairs of epibranchial arteries belonging to branchial arches 1\#151 ; 4 , i.e. , formed from the dorsal portions of the aortic arches of those branchiomeres .
The first efferent artery\#151 ; that of the hyoidean demibranch\#151 ; discharges into the first epibranchial artery , i.e. , into the aortic arch of the next succeeding branchiomere .
]886 .
] On the Blood-vessels of Mustelus antafcticns .
The dorsal portion of the hyoidean aortic arch ( artery ) is represented by the proximal portion of the posterior carotid , artery and by a delicate vessel proceeding backwards and inwards from it , which , uniting with its fellow of the opposite side , forms a slender median longitudinal trunk , the rudimentary anterior ( inter-hyoidean ) portion of the dorsal aorta .
It is suggested that the original mandibular aortic arch is represented partly by the pseudobranchial artery which supplies the pseudobranch ( mandibular gill ) and partly by the mandibular artery , which springs from the ventral end of , and takes a course parallel with , the first efferent branchial artery .
A classified list of the peripheral arteries is given , dividing them into ( a ) those arising from the efferent branchial arteries ( aortic arches ) ; and ( b ) those arising from the dorsal aorta .
The anterior carotid artery , formed by the union of the efferent arterioles of the pseudobranch , supplies the brain and eye , and anastomoses with the posterior carotid .
The posterior carotid supplies the orbit , snout , and jaws .
The mandibular artery supplies the angle of the mouth and the submental region , and gives off nutrient vessels to the hyoidean demibranch .
The subclavian artery\#151 ; the first vessel springing from the dorsal aorta\#151 ; divides into a brachial artery for the pectoral fin , and a hypo-branchial artery , which unites with its fellow , anastomoses with the whole series of efferent branchial arteries , and gives off coronary , pericardial , and nutrient branchial arteries .
The splanchnic arteries consist of a cceliaco-mesenteric , a lieno-gastric , and anterior and posterior spermatico-mesenteric arteries ; the two latter also supply the gonad .
There is only a general correspondence between the splanchnic arteries and veins of different elasmobranch genera .
An embryological classification of the veins is given : they are divided into the following groups : ( ) system of the subintestinal vein , consisting of renal portal , and hepatic portal sections ; ( ) system of the cardinal veins ; ( c ) system of the lateral veins ; ( )system of the coronary veins ; and ( e ) system of the cutaneous veins .
The caudal vein , on emerging from the haemal canal , divides into right and left renal portal veins , which send branches into the kidneys and receive the posterior spinal and ovidncal veins .
There is a large intra-intestinal vein enclosed in the free edge of the spiral valve , and continued directly into the hepatic portal vein .
There are two hepatic veins , opening into a large hepatic sinus , which communicates by two small apertures with the sinus venosus .
The paired precaval sinuses receive the j ugular , the inferior jugular , 474 On the Blood-vessels of Mustelus antarcticus .
[ June 10 , and the lateral veins , and are directly continued one into each end of the sinus venosus .
The jugular veins receive the blood from the orbital and hyoidean sinuses ; the anterior cerebral and anterior facial veins discharge into the orbital sinus , the posterior facial and nutrient hyoidean veins into the hyoidean sinus .
The posterior cerebral and myelonal veins open by numerous commissures into the jugular , cardinal , renal portal , and caudal veins .
The inferior jugular receives a nutrient branchial vein from each of the four holobranchs , and anastomoses in front with the hyoidean sinus .
The cardinal veins are asymmetrically developed , only the right being complete .
The latter arises by the confluence of the efferent renal veins , and , passing forwards , joins with the left cardinal .
Each vein dilates anteriorly into a cardinal , which communicates with its fellow by a wide aperture , that of the right side receiving a large spermatic vein .
There is a large anastomotic trunk between the spermatic and portal veins .
The lateral vein receives the veins from the pectoral and pelvic fins , and unites with its fellow across the dorsal aspect of the pubic cartilage .
The lateral vein is considered to be homogeneous with the epigastric or anterior abdominal vein of amphibia and reptiles ; it is also suggested that it may be derived from the vein of the hypothetical lateral fin of the proto-vertebrata , and possibly also from the primary lateral vessel of the proto-chordata .
In this connexion some recent speculations on the phylogeny of the chordata are discussed in their bearing on the vascular system .
There are two coronary veins opening into the sinus venosus .
The cutaneous veins are five in number , a dorsal , an anterior and a posterior ventral , and a pair of lateral vessels .
The dorsal cutaneous vein opens into the left renal portal , the anterior ventral into the lateral veins anteriorly and into the iliacs posteriorly , the posterior ventral into the cloacal veins , and the lateral into the subscapular sinus .
The dorsal and the posterior ventral vessels form closed loops round the bases of the median ( first and second dorsal and ventral-anal ) fins .
The lateral cutaneous vein anastomoses posteriorly with the caudal and with the dorsal cutaneous vein .
Attention is drawn to the large number of anastomoses between important arteries and veins , and to the sinus-like or lacunar character of many of the venous channels .

