Phila e Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
ll BBB eOD O A A KKK HH EV RCC LLL V RE MMM P NNN Philos. Transact. No.471.TAB .
I. Fig.3 .
l DO A K C L Q P N I. Of the Bases of the Cells wherein the Bees deposit their Honey .
Part of a Letter from Mr. Mac Laurin , Professor of Mathematics at Edinburgh , and F. R. S. to Martin Folks , Esq ; Pr .
R. S. June 30 1743 .
THE Sagacity of the Bees in making their Cells of an hexagonal Form , has been admired of old ; and that Figure has been taken notice of , as the best they could have pitched upon for their Purposes : But a yet more surprising Instance of the Geometry of these little Insects is seen in the Form of the Bases of those Cells , discovered in the late accurate Observations of Monsieur Maraldi and Monsieur de Reaumur , who have found those Bases to be of that Pyramidal Figure , that requires the least Wax for containing the same Quantity of Honey , and which has at the same time a very remarkable Regularity and Beauty , connected of Necessity with its Frugality .
Presented to the Royal Society Nov. 3 .
1743 .
These Bases are formed from Three equal Rhombus 's , the obtuse Angles of which are found to be the Doubles of an Angle that often offers itself to Mathematicians in Questions relating to Maxima and Minima ; that is , the Angle , whose Tangent is to the Radius , as the Diagonal is to the Side of the Square .
By this Construction , of the Six solid Angles at the Base that correspond to the Angles of the Hexagon , Three are equal as well to each other , as to the solid Angle at the Apex of the Figure , each of which solid Angles is respectively formed from Three equal plane obtuse Angles : And the other Three solid Angles are also equal to each other , but severally formed each from Four equal plane acute Angles , Supplements to the former obtuse ones .
By this Form the utmost Improvement is made of their Wax , of which they are on all Occasions very saving , the greatest Regularity is obtained in the Construction , and with a particular Facility in the Execution ; as there is one sort of Angle only with its Supplement , that is required in the Structure of the whole Figure .
Monsieur Maraldi * had found by Mensuration , that the obtuse Angles of the Rhombus 's were of 110 Degrees nearly ; upon which he observed , that if the Three obtuse Angles which formed the solid Angles above-mentioned , were supposed equal to each other , they must each be of 109~ .
28~ ; from whence it has been inferred , that this last was really the true and just Measure of them : And lately Monsieur de Reaumur ~ has informed us , that Mr. Koenig having , at his Desire , sought what should be the Quantity to be given to this Angle , in order to employ the least Wax possible in a Cell of the same Capacity , that Gentleman had found , by a higher Geometry than was known to the Ancients , by the Method of Infinitesimals , that the Angle in question ought in this Case to be of 109~ .
26~ .
And we shall now make * Memoires de l ' Acad. Royale des Sciences , 1712 .
~ Memoires sir les Insectes , Tom. V. it appear from the Principles of common Geometry , that the most advantageous Angle for these Rhombus 's is indeed , on that Account also , the same which results from the supposed Equality of the Three plane Angles that form the above-mentioned solid ones .
Let GN and NM represent any TWO TAB. I. adjoining Sides of the Hexagon , that is , Fig 1 .
and 2 .
the Section of the Cell perpendicular to its Length .
The Sides of the Cell are not complete Parallelograms as CGN K , BMN K , but Trapezia CGN E , BMN E , to which a Rhombus CEB e , is fitted at E , and that has the opposite Point e in the Apex of the Figure , so that Three Rhombus 's of this kind , with Six Trapezia , may complete the Figure of the Cell .
Let O be the Centre of the Hexagon , of which CK and KB are adjoining Sides ; join CB and K O , intersecting it in A ; and , because COB is equal to CK B , and KE equal to O e , the Solid EBCK is equal to the Solid eBC O ; from which it is obvious , that the Solid Content of the Cell will be the same , where-ever the Point E is taken in the Right Line K N , the Points C , K , B , G , N , and M , being given .
We are therefore to inquire where the Point E is to be taken in K N , so that the Area of the Rhombus CEB e , together with that of the Two Trapezia CGN E , ENM B , may form the Least Superficies .
Because Ee is perpendicular to BC in A , the Area of the Rhombus is AE~B C , that of the Trapezia CGN E , ENM B , is CG+EN~K C ; these , added to the Rhombus , amount to AE~BC+2KN~KCKE~K C ; and because 2KN~KC is invariable , we are to inquire , when AE~BCKE~KC is a Minimum ?
Suppose the Point L to be so taken upon K N , that KL may be to AL as KC is to B C. From the Centre A describe in the Plane AKE with the Radius A E , an Arc of a Circle ER meeting A L , produced , if necessary , in R ; let EV be perpendicular to ARE in V , and KH be perpendicular to the same in H ; then the Triangles LE V , LK H , LA K , being similar , we have L V : L E : : L H : L K : : L K : L A : : ( by the Supposition last made ) K C : B C. Hence , when E is between L and N , we have LH+LV ( = V H ) : LK+LE ( = K E ) : : K C : B C ; and when E is between K and L , we have LHLV ( = V H ) : LKLE ( = K E ) : : K C : B C ; that is , in both Cases we have KE~ KC=VH~B C ; and consequently AE~BCKE~KC=AE~BCVH~BC=AEVH ~BC=ARVH~BC=AH+VR~B C ; which , because AH and BC do not vary , is evidently Least when VR vanishes , that is , when E is upon L. Therefore CLBl is the Rhombus of the most advantageous Form in respect of Frugality , when KL is to AL as KC is to B C. This is the same Method by which we have elsewhere determined the Maxima and Minima , in the Resolution of several Problems that have usually been treated in a more abstruse Man ner .
See Treatise of Fluxions , Art .
572 , &amp;c. Now because OK is bisected in A , K C2 =O K2 =4A K2 ; and A C2 =3A K2 , or BC=2AC= 2~3~A K ; consequently K C : B C : : 2A K : 2~3 ~A K : : 1 : ~ 3 , and K L : A L : : ( K C : B C ) : : 1 : ~ 3 , or A L : A K : : ~ 3 : ~ 2 ; and ( because A K : A C : : 1 : ~ 3 ) A L : A C : : 1 : ~ 2 ; that is , the Angle CLA is that , whose Tangent is to the Radius as ~2 is to 1 , or as 14142135 to 10000000 ; and therefore is of 54 ~ .
44 ~ .
08 ~ , and consequently the Angle of the Rhombus of the Best Form is that of 109 ~ .
28 ~ .
16 ~ .
By this Solution it is further easy to estimate what their Savings may amount to upon this Article , in consequence of this Construction .
Had they made the Base flat , and not of the pyramidal Form described above , then , besides completing the Parallelograms CGNK and BMN K , the Surface of the Base had been 3CB~A K ; what they really do form amounts in Surface to the same Parallelograms , and 3CB~A H : the Savings therefore amount to 3CB~AKAH =3CB~AH~~~~2/ ~ 2 , which is almost a Fourthpart of the Pains and Expense of Wax , they bestow above what was necessary for completing the parallelogram Sides of the Cells : And at the same time they seem also to have other Advantages from this Form , besides the saving of their Wax ; such as a greater Strength of the Work , and more Convenience for moving in these larger solid Angles .
It remains that we should show , that the plane Angles CL B , CL N , and BL N , are equal to each other .
We before found , that K L : A L : : K C : B C : : K A : ( = 1/ 2 K C ) A C ; consequently K L : K A : : A L : A C , and the Triangles LK A , LA C , are similar : Therefore L K : A L : : A L : L C : : K C : B C : : 1 : ~ 3 , and LC=3L K. With the Centre L and Radius L C , deT A B. I. scribe in the Plane CGNK the Semicircle Fig. 3 .
DC P , meeting the Line K N , in D and P ; join CP and C D , and let LQ be perpendicular to CP in Q , then will the Angle CDK be equal to QL P , and we shall have P Q : L Q : : P C : D C : : ~P K : ~D K : : ~LC+L K : ~LCL K : : ~ 4 : ~ 2 : : ~ 2 : 1 : : A C : A L. Consequently the Angle QLP=AL C , and CLP=CL B , or the obtuse Angle of the Rhombus CLBl is equal to CL P , the obtuse Angle of the Trapezium ; and consequently , the Three plane Angles that form the solid Angle at L , or the Apex at l , are equal to each other : From which it is obvious , that the Four acute plane Angles , which form the solid Angle at C or B , are likewise equal among themselves .
Though Monsieur Maraldi had found , by his Mensuration , these obtuse Angles to be of about 110 Degrees ; the small Difference between this and the 109~ .
28~ .
16~ , just found by Calculation , seems to have been either accidental , or owing to the Difficulty of measuring such Angles with Exactness : Besides that he seems to admit the real Equality of the several plane Angles , that form as well the Apex , as the other solid ones we have been treating of .
And , as to the small Difference between our Angle and that determined by Mr. Koenig , who first considered this Problem , but has not yet published his Demonstration of it , that can only be owing to his not carrying on his Computation so far , and would scarcely have been worth the mentioning , were it not yet in Favour of the Practice of these industrious little Insects ; and did it not therefore give us ground to conclude , that in general , and when the particular Form and Circumstance of the Honey-comb does not require a Variation from their Rule , the Bees do truly construct their Cells of the best Figure , and that not only nearly , but with Exactness ; and that their Proceeding could not have been more perfect from the greatest Knowledge in Geometry .
How they arrive at this , and how the wonderful Instinct in Animals is to be accounted for , is a Question of an higher Nature ; but this is surely a remarkable Example of this Instinct , as it has suggested a Problem that had been overlooked by Mathematicians , though they have treated largely on the Maxima and Minima ; and such an one , as has been thought to exceed the Compass of the common Geometry .
It may be worth while to add here , that if the Cells had been of any other Form than hexagonal , and the Bases had still been pyramidal , these must have been terminated by Trapezia , and not by Rhombus 's , and therefore had been less regular , because OA and AK would have been unequal : Nor could there have been room for such an advantageous or frugal a Construction as that we have described , because the solid Content of the Cell would have increased with the Right Line K E. The Cells , by being hexagonal , are the most capacious , in proportion to their Surface , of any regular Figures that leave no Insterstices between them , and at the same time admit of the most perfect Bases .
Thus , by following what is best in one respect , unforeseen Advantages are often obtained ; and what is most beautiful and regular , is also found to be most useful and excellent .

